# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `0090af09f178c7b35dc07ff54afadc91`
`Mr. BISHOP of New York â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. BISHOP of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act. Delivering the solemn 
promise we made to set a new direction in Iraq, this legislation 
provides us with the opportunity to reaffirm our support for the 
responsible redeployment of our troops and a refocusing of our efforts 
on the real threat that is facing America--fighting al-Qaeda in 
Afghanistan, tracking down Osama bin Laden, and preventing another 
terrorist attack against America.

Along with a great many of my colleagues, I spoke out against the 
President's surge strategy when it was announced in January. We argued 
then, as we reiterate today, that Iraq is engaged in a civil war and 
thus political, not military, solutions are needed to address the 
problems facing the region. Yet, the President continues to operate 
under the assumption that somehow, some way, there is a military path 
to success. In other words, his strategy continues to be ''stay the 
course'' writ large.

It has now been seven months since the President announced his surge 
strategy, with the stated goal of providing stability in Iraq so that 
the political reforms that are needed to secure the region can take 
place. Since then, more than 25,000 additional troops have deployed to 
Iraq, of whom 600 have been killed and more than 3,000 have been 
wounded. All of this while the Iraqi government has failed to meet any 
of the benchmarks endorsed by the President in January, violence rates 
are at an all time high, and a recent government report estimates that 
al Qaeda is the strongest it has been since the aftermath of the 
September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

Simply put, it is long past time for our involvement in this tragic 
episode to come to an end. The Iraqi people are the only ones that can 
bring a peaceful conclusion to this war.

It is unfair to ask our troops and their families to continue to 
sacrifice while Iraqi leaders have done so little to achieve the 
political and security goals asked of them. Therefore, it is imperative 
that we begin the gradual redeployment of troops as soon as possible to 
protect their lives and ensure the safety of America.

Mr. Speaker, I want to reiterate my opposition to this war. I believe 
the decision to invade Iraq is the single most devastating and 
misguided foreign policy decision our Nation has ever made. I will vote 
for the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act because I believe it is 
time to bring our troops home and end our involvement in this civil 
war.