# AMERICAN ENERGY ACT
## `00e39b32c8963af43744a4410de54dec`
`Mr. BROUN of Georgia â€” 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. BROUN of Georgia. Thank you, Mr. Latta, for yielding.



I appreciate this opportunity to come and speak today on this issue 
that is so drastically important to the American people. Everybody, 
rich and poor, black and white, all races, all nationalities, everybody 
in America is suffering from the high cost of energy.

When we voted on the morning of August 1 to go home for a 5-week 
break, that afternoon I was part of the group of Republicans here on 
the floor demanding, demanding that we go back in session to find some 
commonsense solutions to the high cost of gasoline at everybody's gas 
pump. Everybody in this Nation, even if you don't have a car, if you 
drive a bicycle or a motorcycle or a scooter, is suffering from the 
consequences of the high cost of energy. When you go to the grocery 
store and try to buy bread, milk, eggs, bacon, the cost of those goods 
in your grocery store are going to continue to go up because of the 
high cost of energy.

We hear from the controlling party, the Democrats, from Speaker 
Pelosi--now, there are some on the other side that would like to have a 
vote, that would like to see the energy costs come down. Many of our 
friends on the Democratic side of the aisle would vote for a 
comprehensive energy plan that would literally lower the cost of 
gasoline, would lower the cost of heating oil, would lower the cost of 
all energy sources here in America. But they can't have that 
opportunity to vote on a comprehensive plan. We can't have an 
opportunity to vote on a comprehensive plan. Why is that so? Frankly, 
if the American Energy Act would come to this floor for a vote, I think 
it would pass overwhelmingly. But Speaker Pelosi and Steny Hoyer, the 
majority leader, won't let that act come here, to have an up-and-down 
vote, to have an open discussion, a frank debate about all the issues 
within that act.

Now, what does the act do? The act taps into our own American energy 
sources, taps into our own energy sources. Doing so is absolutely 
critical. We have to stop this dependence upon Middle Eastern oil. We 
are funding governments who hate America, who want to destroy us, and 
they are in turn funding al Qaeda, the insurgency in Iraq, the 
insurgency in Afghanistan. They're funding people who are in our 
country today who want to attack the very fiber of our Nation. We have 
to stop that dependency upon foreign oil, whether it's Middle Eastern 
oil, Venezuelan oil, North African oil, or anywhere else. We have to 
tap into our own natural resources. America is the only nation in the 
world, the only nation in the world, that won't develop its own natural 
resources.

I became a political activist coming to Washington. I was practicing 
medicine in rural South Georgia, coming here to this Nation's capital 
to lobby as a volunteer about hunters' rights and gun owners' rights 
and conservation issues. I'm a scientist. I'm a medical doctor. And I 
believe that all of our policy ought to be based on science. Not on 
emotionalism, not on what the name of something is, but on science. And 
I believe very strongly that we have to be good stewards of God's 
creation. We're charged biblically to do so. We have to be good 
stewards of our environment. And I'm a conservationist, a very ardent 
conservationist. We can tap into our own natural resources. We can 
develop those God-given resources, what we call fossil fuel, air 
through wind as it moves around our country, through the sun, through 
solar resources. We can tap into those resources. But we are denied a 
vote on an act that would do everything. We call it the ''all-of-the-
above plan.''

We hear our colleagues on the Democratic side, the controlling party, 
say, well, let the oil companies drill. They already have leases. They 
can't drill. Why is that? My friends, my colleagues, American people, 
oil companies can't drill because of endless lawsuits by the radical 
environmentalists. Any bill that's presented has to include some 
mechanism to stop the endless lawsuits by these radical 
environmentalists that don't want any drilling. They don't want us to 
develop any of our natural resources. They don't want us to do 
anything. I think they want us to live in a cave or in a tree. Come to 
think of it, they don't want us to live in the trees because they think 
that destroying the forests would be adverse to their philosophy. So I 
think they want us to live in a cave. I guess we'd have to go and pick 
up sticks to make a fire and cook our food. A lot of them don't want us 
to even go out and harvest some of the bountiful animals that we have 
in those forests that I enjoy eating as a hunter and as a fisherman. 
But the leadership of the Democratic Party is listening to those 
radical environmentalists, and they closed down this Congress on August 
1 at 11:23 in the morning when many of us wanted to just come to this 
floor, as is our right, as is our privilege, to talk about energy.

That afternoon I was here as part of that group, as I have already 
mentioned, demanding the ability to bring the American Energy Act to 
the floor for an up-and-down vote, to have a debate, an open debate, 
with amendments, to allow everybody to put their two cents worth in, to 
talk about their philosophy, to offer their suggestions, to find some 
commonsense solutions to our energy dependence on foreign sources.


It's a national security issue for us to be dependent upon those 
nations who want to destroy America. It's an economic issue because our 
dependency upon them makes us subservient to them.

The high cost of energy is raising the cost of health care in my 
business. It's raising the cost of groceries in the grocery store. It's 
raising the cost of every single good and service in this Nation.

I as well as many others came during the August break to this floor 
to try to do the people's work, to demand a vote on a commonsense 
solution to this energy crisis we have in America. Right now today 
America is drilling for ice on Mars; yet we cannot drill for oil in 
America. It's insane. We have to change that. We have to tap into our 
oil and gas resources offshore and in ANWR.

I have already mentioned that I hunt. I have been on the North Slope 
of the Brooks Range. I've been out flying over the Arctic National 
Wildlife Refuge, ANWR. I've seen the caribou herds that we keep hearing 
about from the Democratic majority that would be harmed. That's 
hogwash. They didn't want the pipeline. I have flown over the pipeline. 
I've camped out by the pipeline. I've seen the caribou herds in Alaska 
blossom and reproduce and get more numerous because of the pipeline. 
I've seen pictures of grizzly bear walking down the pipeline. It's 
actually helped the wildlife.

We have the technology today where we can tap into those oil 
resources in ANWR, offshore, all over this Nation, and can do it in an 
environmentally responsible way, as we must, as I want to see happen, 
as a lot of my Democratic colleagues would like to see happen. But we 
cannot get a vote.

I have got a picture here. One of the Democratic folks told us the 
Democrats' energy plan was to ''drive small cars and wait for the 
wind.'' I don't think most of us want to drive around in small cars 
waiting for the wind. We don't have to. We can lower the cost of 
gasoline. We have to tap into our own natural resources to be able to 
do so. We can stop our dependence on Middle Eastern oil by voting into 
law the American energy plan. We can make America secure by voting for 
the American energy plan.

Whom is Ms. Pelosi listening to? She's from San Francisco. She thinks 
those radical environmentalists out there are normal people.

But the American people know different. The American people know and 
want an energy plan that makes sense to lower their cost of gas at the 
pumps. But we need more than that. It's September. People are starting 
to buy their home heating oil. Poor people, retirees on fixed incomes 
are going to have to pay a lot more money for their home heating oil. 
Many are not going to be able to afford to buy their supplies for the 
winter. The people that we hear from the Democratic majority that they 
want to represent the most, the poor people and the elderly of this 
Nation, are going to be radically affected and harmed because Ms. 
Pelosi and Mr. Hoyer, the Democratic leadership, will not allow a vote 
on the American Energy Act.

I represent the 10th Congressional District in Georgia, northeast 
Georgia. One of the cities in my district is Athens, where the 
University of Georgia is. I'm a proud Bulldog. Go Dawgs. Our


head football coach, Mark Richt, has a three-word phrase he uses to 
energize the football team: ''Finish the drill.'' As a congressman, I 
have got a three-word phrase to energize America: ''Start the drill.'' 
We have to start the drill. We have to tap into our own natural 
resources and develop America's resources. We have to develop 
alternative sources of energy. That's absolutely critical because we 
have a dwindling supply of oil and eventually it's going to run out. We 
have to develop the wind and solar energy that my Democratic friends 
just keep talking about. T. Boone Pickens says that's half the answer. 
That's hogwash also. It's only a small part of the answer. It's less 
than 10 percent. But we have to develop wind and solar. The American 
Energy Act does that.

Just south of my district, just south of Augusta, Georgia, the 
Georgia Power Company is trying to put in two nuclear reactors, and 
they have been doing that for decades. But because of the radical 
environmentalists and governmental regulations and endless lawsuits, 
they can't build the two nuclear reactors to add to the two that are 
already there. We have the technology to make nuclear energy safe. 
Nuclear energy is the only thing that makes environmental sense and 
economic sense to develop electric energy in this Nation. We have to 
develop nuclear energy.



We have to develop hydrogen. We have to develop new batteries. We 
have to conserve. And I am a conservationist. Conservation has to be a 
part of the answer. We have to do it all. Well, guess what, American 
public? The Republican's American energy act does all of that. We must 
have a vote.

So, Republicans, on the afternoon that we were forced to go home on 
this 5-week break, Republicans have been coming here every single day 
since that day, since August 1, to try to get our Democratic colleagues 
to come back here and do America's work, the American peoples' work, to 
vote on a comprehensive energy act bill that would do all of the above: 
Would tap into America's bountiful natural resources, that would 
develop nuclear energy, would develop alternative sources of energy, 
would develop conservation issues, would stimulate the innovativeness 
of the American public to develop new sources of energy. There may be a 
source of energy we have never dreamed of.

We have to do all of those things. The American energy act will do 
just that. We can't have the Democratic energy plan of driving small 
cars and waiting for the wind. We have got to lower the cost of gas at 
the pump. We have got to lower the cost of home heating oil.

Republicans are here fighting for the poor people. We are here 
fighting for the elderly on limited incomes. The Democratic leadership 
are just doing what my son calls ''dissing'' them. The leader on the 
Democratic side, Speaker Pelosi is dissing poor people, dissing the 
elderly, those who are hurt most by us not having the vote.

So I come here tonight with my colleagues, and I applaud Mr. Latta 
and Mr. Burton and Mr. Barton and Judge Carter for coming here tonight 
to bring forth to the American people the idea that Republicans are 
here for the American people. We are here trying to find those 
solutions. We have been here through the whole August break, inviting 
our Democratic colleagues to come back and do the peoples' work, the 
poor peoples' work, the elderly's work, everybody's work, to lower the 
cost of energy.

And so I just call upon my Democratic colleagues, particularly those 
many over here on the Democratic side who would like to have a vote, 
please ask your leadership to bring the American energy act to the 
floor for a vote with an open rule so that we can have all the 
amendments that you want to put in, all the amendments that our folks 
want to put in, have an open debate, but let's do the American peoples' 
job in the peoples' House. Let's do the peoples' work to find some 
solutions to this energy crisis that is an economic crisis and a 
national security crisis for America. So I call upon my Democratic 
colleagues to get your leadership to allow us to have a vote on the 
American energy act.

I thank Mr. Latta for the opportunity to come here and discuss this, 
and I applaud your efforts, I applaud my other colleagues' efforts, and 
I thank you for this opportunity. Maybe the American people will 
listen.

When I was here in the dimly lit House with no microphones, no 
cameras--different from tonight--and we had the tourists sitting here 
on the floor of the House, I asked them to go home and not just enjoy 
being in this historic moment sitting on the floor of the House of 
Representatives but to go home to contact their Member of Congress and 
demand a vote on the American energy act.

Former U.S. Senator Everett Dirksen one time said, when he feels the 
heat, he sees the light. What he was saying is when his constituents in 
his State start contacting him through calls and letters, that he would 
start feeling the heat. We need the American public all over this 
country to start putting heat on their U.S. Senators and their Members 
of the U.S. House by calling, writing, e-mailing, visiting district 
offices, visiting Washington offices, and demanding a vote on a 
comprehensive energy package that would lower their costs of energy, 
whether it's gasoline, home heating oil, electricity. That is what the 
American energy plan is all about, is to lower our energy costs.

So I applaud your efforts tonight, sir, my friend, and dear 
colleague, and I ask the American public to get busy to apply the heat 
to your Member of Congress. Write them, call them, e-mail them, and 
demand a vote on the American energy act so we can have an up-or-down 
vote, open debate to lower your cost of energy, lower your cost of 
gasoline, lower your cost of groceries, lower your cost of health care, 
lower your cost of every good and service that you have to buy to make 
America secure. Energy secure.

I thank you, sir, for your leadership. I applaud you, and I thank you 
for this opportunity to come back today.