# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `00ea8286f1a175a99bd0a67e57eef5db`
`Mr. PAUL â€” 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation to 
provide some Congressional oversight over the deployment and 
maintenance of our troops stationed overseas. As the Constitution 
states in Article I Section 8., Congress has the power ''to make rules 
for the government and regulation of the land and naval forces,'' and 
therefore Congress has an obligation to speak on such matters. I have 
been and remain extremely concerned about the deployment extensions and 
stop-loss programs that have kept our troops deployed and engaged for 
increasingly extended periods of time. My constituents who are affected 
by this policy have contacted me with their concerns as well.

The legislation at least seeks to provide some guidance and relief to 
our troops who have been stretched to the limit by the increasing 
duration of deployment overseas and the decreasing duration of time 
back home between deployments. Several military experts, including 
General Barry McCaffrey, have commented on this problem and the 
challenges it poses to the health and safety of our troops.

Although I am voting for this bill, I am increasingly concerned about 
Congress's approach to the issue of our continued involvement in Iraq. 
Rather than a substantive move to end the US military presence in Iraq, 
this bill and others that have passed recently seem to be merely 
symbolic moves to further politicize the war in Iraq. Clearly the 
American public is overwhelmingly in favor of a withdrawal from Iraq, 
but Congress is not listening. At best, the House seems willing to 
consider only such half-measures as so-called re-deployment. We need a 
real solution that puts the safety of our troops above politics. We 
need to simply bring them home. As I said recently on the Floor of the 
House, we just marched in so we can just march out.

The proper method for ending the war is for Congress to meet its 
responsibility to deauthorize and defend the war. Micromanaging a troop 
deployment is not the answer since it overstays the bounds of 
Congressional authority.