# DISCUSSING THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `01b4d14fd7934c92093b4eecf2e08876`
`Mr. COURTNEY â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Thank you, I want to salute you for organizing this 
Special Order tonight on the very day where this new Congress rose to 
its constitutional duty and stood up for the American people who made a 
watershed historic change last November in terms of expecting us as 
Members of Congress to lead the way to a new direction in Iraq. The 
vote again today followed a succession which all of us here as new 
Members have been part of. I think it is fitting that we are here to 
discuss that change as the people who really made a difference in terms 
of changing control of this body.

The vote today was, as members of the Armed Services Committee and 
Ms.


Shea-Porter knows this, was all about what has happened to the military 
readiness of this country.

Chairman Skelton is a passionate believer that this war has almost 
destroyed the ground forces of this country, the Army and the Marines. 
This was driven home to me during the July 4 recess. A young man, Army-
enlist soldier, came to our district office. In one hand, he had his 
orders for redeployment, his fourth redeployment to Iraq. He had been 
to Iraq for two 1-year stints, and an additional stint of 7 months in 
Afghanistan. So over 4 years, 2 year and 7 months, he has been in a 
combat zone and barely been home for any rest time.

In his other hand, he had a bag filled with prescription medicine for 
anti-anxiety conditions. Zoloft was one of his prescriptions, which is 
a very serious medication for that type of condition. Yet we have a 
situation where he is being sent for the fourth time back into a combat 
zone. Luckily, our office was able to arrange for him to be seen by a 
psychiatrist, and a report was prepared which showed that he had full-
blown post-traumatic stress, and we are making arrangements with the 
Army to ensure that he is not sent back into that situation.

But that is the dirty little secret about this surge policy, that we 
are forcing people who are not physically fit because they are not 
getting adequate rest time at home and, in many cases, who are mentally 
ill and being sent back into combat zone because of the taxing of our 
Armed Forces. It has reached the point where they have no other choice 
but to try and send people who again are well outside any normal 
guidelines in terms of rest, training and equipment which the Army has 
set up.

This bill today which we voted on and passed by an ever-increasing 
margin with each succeeding vote here, is an attempt to say as a Nation 
and as a Congress, which has the constitutional duty to raise the Armed 
Forces, that we have a duty to change course in Iraq to ensure that we 
have Armed Forces that are capable of addressing the real national 
security interests of this country.



Certainly being in the middle of a civil war in Iraq is not 
consistent with the national security interests of this country.

As Congresswoman Shea-Porter pointed out today, the front page of the 
Washington Post has pointed out that al Qaeda now has reached the level 
of strength that it had before the events of 9/11, that there are 
training camps in Pakistan that have been allowed to flourish because 
our eye was taken off the ball with the invasion of Iraq when we should 
have finished the job in Afghanistan back in 2002 and 2003.

We are now in a situation, as Mr. Arcuri just said, we are, in fact, 
as exposed and as vulnerable as this country was at the time of 
September 11 because of the outrageous, misguided policies of this 
administration.

This bill, which we voted on today, which sets out a very measured, 
responsible policy that will change course in Iraq, I think answers all 
the questions of the doubters and the cynics that we don't have an 
answer for what happens after a change of course that occurs in Iraq. 
This is not about Vietnam revisited where people are going to be 
evacuated in helicopters.

This bill lays out a responsible plan for real change in Iraq that 
addresses the need to approach this problem on a regional basis in the 
Middle East and reintroduces a diplomatic measure that has been sorely 
lacking in terms of this administration's policy over the last four-
and-a-half years.

So, again, I think as new Members who are part of the new majority 
that have helped revive life in this branch of the government, which 
was a near rubber stamp over the last 4 years, it is important that I 
think we are here tonight to reemphasize what took place here in this 
chamber and to restate our mission to keep faith with the voters that 
took place last fall and make sure that we have a real change in policy 
in Iraq.

I'd like to yield now to Congressman Ellison from the State of 
Minnesota who's again part of this new majority here in Congress.