# IRAQ
## `0369c258d836481bb0d894b5685e0607`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 17 September 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the distinguished 
chairwoman of the Ethics Committee, but also our leader on the Special 
Order hour tonight.

What a timely hour that you have allowed us to participate in. I add 
my appreciation as well to the chairwoman of the Congressional Black 
Caucus and as well the leaders of the Out of Iraq Caucus and the 
Progressive Caucus, of which I am a member.

And so I raise the question tonight, where do we go from here? And I 
have standing in alongside of me the growing numbers of those fallen in 
battle from the 18th Congressional District and surrounding areas. 
Those faces represent families. They are husbands, wives, sisters and 
brothers, mothers and fathers. They have left grandmothers and 
grandfathers. They have left family and friends. And it is interesting, 
as I look at a headline in the Houston Chronicle, it says: ''America 
Has No Exit Strategy But Our President Does.'' And the gist of the 
article is that the exit strategy for President Bush is his retirement. 
For it is evident from his remarks last week that this administration 
has no exit strategy other than to say, I will not have the exiting of 
our troops. I will not cease the loss of lives until I leave the White 
House. I will not have the legacy of the book being written to say that 
I worked with the United States Congress, the American people, listened 
to their voices, understood that this was a political solution and not 
a military solution, but I will not sit down and reconcile with my 
Congress, with the American people, and bring our troops home as 
heroes. No, I am going to stay to the end and leave this to the next 
President.

A GI who died had criticized the war in Iraq. Seven soldiers signed a 
letter. Shortly thereafter, the soldier from Texas, Sergeant Omar Mora, 
died, one of his other fellow signers of the letter asking why are we 
here. Criticizing the war in Iraq. Soldiers on the battlefield. It is 
interesting that what is represented is that there is one mind in Iraq 
of these soldiers, but these soldiers are patriots who want to ask the 
question based upon their constitutional rights. Tragically, as the 
picture will show, this young man lost his life, and a fellow soldier 
who signed the letter likewise lost his life.

Another headline: ''Texas City Sergeant Dies in Iraq Accident.'' Even 
in the last 24 hours, we are finding that those contractors, paid-for 
contractors, American contractors, one of our defense contractors, if 
you will, wound up killing 10-or-so Iraqis under the allegation that 
they were attacking a State Department envoy. We want those envoys to 
be protected, officials traveling around, but what they wind up doing 
is bringing Black Hawk helicopters. And these are private contractors 
making $100,000 a year shooting up innocent Iraqis, creating then a 
greater target of our own military personnel. What is going on in Iraq?

So, Mr. Speaker and Madam Chairwoman, I rise today to suggest that it 
is time to declare a military success. This is not a question of 
agreeing with the ''Mission Accomplished'' of the President of the 
United States. This is to separate the political reconciliation that 
must be done by the Maliki government and surrounding Mid East states 
to resolve the conflict between Shias, Sunnis, and Kurds to the work of 
our soldiers. Our soldiers have done their job.

So H.R. 930, the Military Success Act of 2007, wants to declare a 
military success. Saddam Hussein is no longer there. We have had an 
election where we have elected a democratic government. And so all that 
our military has been asked to do, they have done it.

We have even gone further with the surge and collaborated with Sunnis 
and created a peaceful area in Anbar, but yet the sheik was 
assassinated. Why? Because you must have political reconciliation. And 
while we stand here on


the floor tonight, soldiers are dying. These faces are growing.

Mr. President, do you understand that the American people have 
spoken? And this is not cut and run, but this is recognizing that we 
are spending $10 billion a month, which translates into $329,670,330 
per day, $13,736,264 per hour, $228,938 per minute, and $3,816 per 
second.

I believe that we should move to the floor of the House, declare our 
soldiers victorious in the work they were assigned to do, and bring our 
troops home.

It is important to note that any false representation that bringing 
home troops in December is a reflection of the voices of the American 
people is not true. Having 130,000 troops in 2008, July, does nothing 
to bring our troops home. It is a reduction of the surge.

And so I am asking that our troops be brought home in a safe and 
secure manner so that our equipment can be brought out and that the 
announcement that the troops will begin to redeploy begins.

This is not a situation of fight them there or fight them here. This 
is not typographing this to the enemy. The enemy is well aware of 
everything we do. The President knows that General Petraeus said that 
al Qaeda was not there when Saddam Hussein was there. They were not 
there when we entered Iraq. They got there in 2005. And, therefore, it 
is important for the Shias, Sunnis, and Kurds to join together to fight 
al Qaeda. Everyone knows that Iraq is a place that is a training ground 
for al Qaeda.

So I think it is important, as I close, to be able to again offer our 
hand of reconciliation to the President, sit down with the leadership 
of this Congress. As Speaker Pelosi said, don't let this be a 10-year 
war. It is already longer than World War II. Save the lives of these 
valiant soldiers, rebuild our military, and let the political process 
in Iraq work so that peace and reconciliation can be brought forward.

It is a tragedy, and I offer my greatest sympathy to those who have 
fallen in battle; those who have been injured, some thousands, 22,000, 
25,000, and growing. We must bring our troops home. We must listen to 
the voices of the American people. These are our heroes. The heroes are 
still standing in Iraq. Bring them home with yellow ribbons. Bring them 
home with celebration. It is time to vote and pass H.R. 930, the 
Military Success Act of 2007. Our soldiers have been successful in duty