# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `037e31120368ecd9620b16c80a8afba6`
`Mr. HOLT â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill. If enacted, 
this act would compel the President to begin redeploying our troops 
from Iraq not later than 120 days after it becomes law. It creates the 
appropriate framework and mechanisms for ensuring an orderly withdrawal 
of our forces, and it puts the responsibility for Iraq's security where 
it belongs--on the Iraqis.

But once again, the President has declared--long before this bill was 
brought to the House floor--that he would veto it or any other measure 
that attempted to correct his failed policy in Iraq. He has become 
intransigent and disconnected from the reality on the ground in Iraq, 
and indifferent to the will of the American people.

The President's much-vaunted ''surge'' has been underway for 6 months 
now, and the results are obvious: Iraq is no less violent and chaotic 
than before the ''surge'' began. Indeed, American casualties--both 
killed and wounded--have been on the rise for nearly a year, long 
before the surge started. By pouring more troops into Iraq, the 
President has simply given the insurgents more targets to shoot at.

Perhaps, even worse, he is ruining our ability to work with other 
countries to foster peace in the Middle East, and he is fanning the 
flames of a conflagration that is now likely to engulf other countries 
around Iraq.

The President's refusal to change course in Iraq is an enormous 
injustice to the brave Americans he has put in harm's way. Our troops 
accomplished the goal of removing Saddam Hussein from power more than 4 
years ago. They accomplished the mission that they were given--and then 
were given another mission for which they were not provided the proper 
equipment and resources: being forced to act as referees in Iraq's 
growing civil war. Our troops deserve better.

Moreover, the President and his advisors have continued their well-
established pattern of moving the goal post on his Iraq policy. Every 
year, the Congress has been told that Iraq's security forces would be 
ready to assume responsibility for their country's security in 12 to 18 
months. And every time we reached that 12 to 18 month benchmark, the 
Administration would reset the goal post another 12 to 18 months down 
the road. The American people have had enough of this bait-and-switch 
game. Iraqis must accept responsibility for their country's future.

Indeed, the President's troop increase has played into the hands of 
Iraq's current government, which continues to claim that the additional 
American forces are needed to quell the violence--without mentioning 
that it is Prime Minister Maliki's own policies that are helping to 
fuel that violence. Prime Minister Maliki's refusal to purge his 
security forces of militias and sectarian death squads is a prime 
reason why Sunni insurgents continue their attacks against Iraq's 
security forces. Prime Minister Maliki's refusal to compromise on the 
distribution of power and oil revenue among Iraqis is why the 
insurgency has only gained in intensity over the past year. How long 
will we continue to provide military and financial support to his 
corrupt and ineffectual government? How much longer should our brave 
fighting men and women serve as referees in the middle of a spreading 
civil war?

If passed, this bill would compel Iraq's leaders to face the fact 
that we will not continue to indefinitely provide for their country's 
security with the lives of America's military men and women, and that 
they must take the necessary political steps needed to end the 
violence. It is for all of these reasons that I urge my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle to support this bill.