# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `03bd1384acfc915e1b3efc484ea467b6`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished gentleman 
for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I believe that each and every Member that has come to 
the floor tonight and over the last 2 days would never consider any of 
their remarks frivolous, nor would we characterize this debate as 
political. Unfortunately, in 2002, many of those same words were used 
to characterize a very needed debate and one that we had hoped that 
those who had the powers of decision would have listened to.



I remember standing in this same location and suggesting to my 
colleagues that I was proud to accept and to make as my choice life 
over death and peace over war. Through these years, members of the 
Progressive Caucus thoughtfully have gathered to reinforce the words 
that we offered during those days when even though the en masse 
lobbying and representation of mass destruction weapons, we knew that 
this was a war that would be ill-fated and misdirected. In fact, during 
that time, we had solutions. We asked for a continued use of political 
diplomacy and, as well, the continuation of utilizing the U.N. 
inspectors to determine if there were weapons of mass destruction.



But now we have come some 5 years and we hear the same refrain. And I 
know in the hearts of those who have spoken that they are sincere. But 
if we said nothing else but point to those who have fallen, let their 
faces represent the sacrifice of America. Those are the faces of those 
who are always willing to go into battle, and not one of us on the 
floor today will ever say anything untoward about the United States 
military through the years and decades and centuries, because they have 
never faltered in the Commander in Chief's direction to go to war.

But what has really failed in this Congress in its oversight and 
responsibility and, as well, the choices being made by the leadership 
that has sent them into war.

And so, as Abraham Lincoln has said, ''We wish to honor the soldiers 
and sailors everywhere who bravely bear this country's cause; honor 
also to the citizen who cares for his brother. We will never forget.''

But we now stand in opposition to the escalation and support of this 
resolution because we believe that the Nation must hear, but also the 
leaders who make the decisions must hear this is wrong and misdirected.

The troops have been magnificent. We have had 180,000 of them who 
have served in Iraq from Texas, we have had 200 or more who have been 
killed, including the 3,000-plus that have been killed across the 
Nation. They do have a military success.

But we know that the surges do not work. We know it was ill-fated 
from the beginning. There was no collaboration, very minimal, and now 
the collaboration has ended. What is needed now is the declaration of a 
military success, which is what I have expressed in H.R. 930. And now 
we must search for diplomatic and political reconciliation, a Special 
Envoy to Iraq that focuses specifically on bringing together the 
Sunnis, the Shiites and the Kurds. We know that surges have only 
generated more insurgents, they have only generated more violence, and 
it has not brought about the safety that is needed.

Of course, the response is that this escalation will bring some sort 
of security to Baghdad, and then we can sit down and have 
reconciliation. One more soldier generates one more violent act. So we 
know that the troop surges do not work. We also know that it strains 
the readiness.

We need a diplomatic surge. More importantly, we need not to go over 
the steps of Secretary McNamara who indicated in his words, as I said 
in the October 2002, Former Defense Secretary Robert McNamara said in 
his mea culpa on the Vietnam War: We were wrong, terribly wrong. And he 
hoped that the suffering, as he quoted one of the philosophers, he 
hoped that what we had experienced in the suffering of Vietnam would 
give us experience. Today this ongoing war in Iraq shows we have thrown 
away that experience.

We also throw away the Constitution, because this is not pursuant to 
Article I, section 8. This is not a declaration of war that we are in, 
and we therefore need to terminate the power of the President that had 
been given in 2002 to attack Iraq. This document has not been followed. 
And so H.R. 930 will terminate the authorization given in 2002, because 
for these lives lost already we don't want to participate in the 
foolishness of monies being spent recklessly, the lack of 
accountability, and a war that already can be claimed as a military 
victory by the United States military who can now come home with honor 
and dignity.

Let us stand again on this floor and claim that we support life over 
death and we support peace over war and we want our soldiers to return 
home in celebration and dignity in honor of these who now are fallen on 
the battlefield.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Con. Res. 63. I stand 
in strong support of our troops who have performed magnificently in 
battle and with a grace under pressure that is distinctively American. 
I stand with the American people, who have placed their trust in the 
President, the Vice President, and the former Secretary of Defense, 
each of whom abused the public trust and patience.

I stand with the American taxpayers who have paid nearly $400 billion 
to finance the misadventure in Iraq. I stand with the 3,019 fallen 
heroes who stand even taller in death because they gave the last full 
measure of devotion to their country. For these reasons, Madam Speaker, 
I stand fully, strongly, and unabashedly in opposition to the 
President's unilateral decision to escalate the war in Iraq by 
deploying more than 20,000 additional combat troops to Iraq, and at 
least that many more to provide logistical support.

I wish to make clear, Madam Speaker, that sending more combat troops 
into Iraq will not lead to success in Iraq. We cannot achieve success 
in Iraq unless we change strategy. But the President's proposed troop 
surge is not a change in strategy and it does not signal a new 
direction; it is simply more of the same. As our most recent great 
President, Bill Clinton, once said, ''if you always do what you've 
always done, you'll always get what you've always got.''

In proposing this latest troop surge, President Bush seeks to ''cry 
havoc and let slip the dogs of war.'' But even Henry V did not exhort 
his troops, his band of brothers, to go ''once more, into the breach'' 
for a fifth time. And neither should we.

Madam Speaker, instead of a surge in combat troops, the United States 
needs to launch a diplomatic surge for political and national 
reconciliation in Iraq. That is why I have introduced H.R. 930, the 
''Military Success in Iraq and Diplomatic Surge for Political and 
National Reconciliation in Iraq Act of 2007.'' As I will discuss in 
greater detail later in my remarks, my legislation offers a far better 
chance of sustainable success in Iraq than does the President's 
escalation. And equally important, my legislation will go a long way 
toward ensuring that never again will the American people or the 
Congress be bamboozled into rubber-stamping an ill-advised, ill-
planned, preemptive war.

Madam Speaker, I am privileged to represent the citizens of the 18 
Congressional District in the great State of Texas. The sons and 
daughters of the Lone Star State have always answered the call to 
service. More than 280 Texans have been made the ultimate sacrifice for 
their country. More than 2,200 Texans have been wounded. Only 
California has suffered a greater number of dead and wounded. Today, 
Madam Speaker, there are more than 31,000 Texans serving in Iraq, which 
is 12,000 more than the next highest state. Since the war began in 
March 2003, more than 180,000 Texans have served in Iraq, some deployed 
two, even three, in some cases four times.


Madam Speaker, it is more than irresponsible not to oppose the 
President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq. It is unconscionable. In 
opposing the President's latest folly, we send a message that is both 
simple and profound: You cannot win the just War on Terror by launching 
an unjustified War in Iraq. That is one of the hard and bitter lessons 
we have learned during the 4 years course of the War in Iraq.

The misguided, mismanaged, and costly debacle that is the Iraq War 
was preemptively launched by President Bush in March 2003 despite the 
opposition of me and 125 of my colleagues in the House of 
Representatives. To date, the war in Iraq has lasted longer than 
America's involvement in World War II, the greatest conflict in all of 
human history.

But there is a difference. The Second World War ended in complete and 
total victory for the United States and its allies. But then again, in 
that conflict America was led by FDR, a great Commander-in-Chief, who 
had a plan to win the war and secure the peace, listened to his 
generals, and sent troops in sufficient numbers and sufficiently 
trained and equipped to do the job.

My friends, I say with sadness that we have not enjoyed that same 
quality of leadership throughout the conduct of the Iraq War. The 
results, not surprisingly, have been disastrous. To date, the war in 
Iraq has claimed the lives of 3,109 brave servicemen and women (115 in 
December and 39 in the first 13 days of this month). More than 23,400 
Americans have been wounded, many suffering the most horrific injuries. 
American taxpayers have paid nearly $400 billion to sustain this 
misadventure.

The depth, breadth, and scope of the President's misguided, 
mismanaged, and misrepresented war in Iraq is utterly without precedent


in American history. It is a tragedy in a league all its own. But it 
was not unforeseeable or unavoidable. As the President's intention to 
launch a preemptive war against Iraq became known back in the fall of 
2002, thoughtful members in the halls of Congress took to the floor, 
and concerned citizens in the countryside took to the streets to stop 
it. Patriots all, we registered our dissent. We acted not out of 
dislike of the President but out of love for our country and what it 
had represented to the world. As Robert Taft, ''Mr. Republican,'' as he 
was affectionately known, the late, great Senator from Ohio, stated two 
weeks after Pearl Harbor, ''Criticism in a time of war is essential to 
the maintenance of a democratic government.''

My friends, in light of the enormous losses of precious American 
blood and treasure, it is very small consolation to know that those of 
us who acted on the biblical injunction to speak truth to power have 
been proven right in our warnings about the disaster war in Iraq would 
produce.

We predicted before the war that ''the outcome after the conflict is 
actually going to be the hardest part, and it is far less certain.'' We 
made the point that it was essential for the Administration to develop 
''a plan for rebuilding of the Iraqi government and society, if the 
worst comes to pass and armed conflict is necessary.'' We knew the 
Armed Forces of the United States is invincible on the battlefield and 
would decisively defeat Iraq's forces and remove Saddam Hussein. But 
like the proverbial dog chasing the car down the road, we questioned 
whether the President knew what to do after we caught it.''

We warned of the ''postwar challenges,'' particularly the fact that 
there was no history of democratic government in Iraq, and that its 
economy and infrastructure was in ruins after years of war and 
sanctions and that rebuilding Iraq would cost hundreds of billions of 
dollars that could be better at home securing the homeland and waging 
the real War on Terror. And we warned against sending American soldiers 
to war in Iraq without adequate protection against biological and 
unconventional weapons.

I am also reminded how General Eric Shinseki told the Senate Armed 
Services Committee in February 2003 that the Defense Department's 
estimate of troops needed for occupying Iraq is too low and that 
several hundred thousand soldiers would be needed. But instead of 
heeding the wise counsel of General Shinseki, the Bush administration 
cashiered him out of the Army.

Indeed, anyone who questioned the Bush Doctrine of preemptive war was 
ridiculed and marginalized as unpatriotic, weak, sympathetic to 
terrorists, and un-American: Anti-Terrorism Chief Richard Clarke, 
Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, Council of Economic Advisors Chairman 
Laurence Lindsay, Joe Wilson, and congressional Democrats.

But four years later, people like us are now the majority. And we are 
united in raising our voices to proclaim: End the war and redeploy our 
troops out of Iraq.

Madam Speaker, it is instructive to review why the American people 
have turned against the war in Iraq.

The American people were told erroneously but repeatedly that the 
gravest threat facing America was Saddam Hussein and his regime. The 
Vice-President assured all who listened that he knew that Iraq and Al 
Qaeda had high-level contacts that went back a decade and that Iraq had 
trained Al Qaeda members in bomb making and deadly gases. He was wrong. 
What's more, the American people were led to believe that the regime in 
Baghdad had long-standing and continuing ties to terrorist 
organizations. Wrong again. President Bush even went so far as to say 
that you couldn't distinguish between Al Qaeda and Saddam when you 
talked about the war on terror. Of course, this claim turned out to be 
untrue as well.

That is not all, Madam Speaker. The campaign to persuade Americans 
that Iraq posed a clear, present, and mortal danger to us included the 
false claims that Iraq possessed ballistic missiles with a likely range 
of hundreds of miles--far enough to strike Saudi Arabia, Israel, 
Turkey, and other nations. It was also falsely represented to Americans 
that Iraq had a growing fleet of manned and unmanned aerial vehicles 
that could be used to disperse chemical or biological weapons across 
broad areas and that Iraq was exploring ways of using unmanned aerial 
vehicles to target the United States.

But the capstone of the administration's disinformation campaign was 
the claim that Saddam Hussein was actively pursuing nuclear weapons 
which could be used against America by Iraq, or by the terrorists to 
whom it was giving safe harbor. President Bush even went so far to 
announce to a world-wide audience in his 2003 State of the Union 
address that ''the British government has learned that Saddam Hussein 
had recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa.'' 
According to the President, facing such clear evidence of peril, we 
could not wait for ''the final proof that could come in the form of a 
mushroom cloud.'' We now know for sure that these claims were false. 
And covering up those false claims is one of the main reasons that 
Scooter Libby found himself in the predicament that led to his 
indictment by a grand jury and the on-going trial in the United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia.

Regarding the actual conduct of the looming hostilities, the 
Administration and its courtiers assured us that ''it would be a 
cakewalk'' and that American troops ''would be greeted as liberators.'' 
The Secretary of Defense, Donald Rumsfeld, boldly claimed that ''the 
war could last six days, six weeks. I doubt six months.'' Vice-
President Cheney said, ''I think it will go relatively quickly . . . 
[in] weeks rather than months.'' There are many things one could say 
about these rose- colored scenarios peddled by the Administration 
nearly four long years ago. But there is one thing you cannot say and 
that is ''truer words were never spoken.''

Finally, Madam Speaker, let us not forget the wildly extravagant 
claims of this Administration regarding the cost of this war. The 
Director of the White House OMB was quoted as saying that ''Iraq will 
be an affordable endeavor that will not require sustained aid and will 
be in the range of $50 billion to $60 billion.'' At last count, Madam 
Speaker, the war has cost the taxpayers $379 billion. That a cost 
overrun of more than 600 percent.

To put the cost of the war in perspective, consider that we are 
spending more than $8 billion a month to sustain the war effort in 
Iraq. Could this money be put to better use? Well, consider the 
following:

For $33.1 billion, or 4 months in Iraq, we could have fully funded 
the Department of Homeland Security FY 2007 budget.

For $10 billion, just 5 weeks in Iraq, we could equip every 
commercial airliner with defenses against shoulder-fired missiles.

For $8.6 billion, just 30 days in Iraq, we could finance the shortage 
of international aid needed to rebuild Afghanistan.

For $5.2 billion, just three weeks in Iraq, we could finance the 
capital improvements needed to secure the nation's public 
transportation system, including trains, subways, and buses.

For the equivalent of 5 days in Iraq, just $1.5 billion, we could 
provide radiation detectors at every port in the United States.

For only $1.4 billion, the cost of another 5 days in Iraq, we could 
double the COPS (community police grants) program.

For the cost of a mere two days in Iraq, we could fund the $700 
million needed to provide 100% screening of all air cargo.

For $350 million, 26 hours in Iraq, we could instead make emergency 
radio systems interoperable.

For the cost of 8/1/2/ hours in Iraq, $94 million, we could restore 
the cuts in Homeland Security funding to cities hit on September 11.

Madam Speaker, opponents of the resolution before us contend that it 
gives comfort to the enemy and undermines the President's strategy for 
success in Iraq. They claim it is our patriotic duty to avert our eyes 
to this Administration's nearly unbroken record of spectacular failure 
and incompetence and rally around the flag. But to paraphrase the old 
saw: fool me four times, shame on you; fool me a fifth time, shame on 
me. The truth is, Madam Speaker, this Congress--and the American 
people--has not been fickle or impatient. Rather, it has been 
understanding and generous to a fault, overlooking and excusing blunder 
after blunder committed by the White House and the Office of the 
Secretary of Defense (OSD). As Kenneth M. Pollack of the Brookings 
Institution, and a former senior member of the NSC, brilliantly 
describes in his essay, ''The Seven Deadly Sins Of Failure In Iraq: A 
Retrospective Analysis Of The Reconstruction,'' in Middle East Review 
of International Affairs (December 2006), our trust and patience has 
been repaid by a record of incompetence unmatched in the annals of 
American foreign policy.

The Bush administration disregarded the advice of experts on Iraq, on 
nation-building, and on military operations. It staged both the 
invasion and the reconstruction on the cheap. It did not learn from its 
mistakes and did not commit the resources necessary to accomplish its 
original lofty goals or later pedestrian objectives. It ignored 
intelligence that contradicted its own views.

It is clear now that the administration simply never believed in the 
necessity of a major reconstruction in Iraq. To exacerbate matters the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the White House Office of 
the Vice President (OVP) worked together to ensure that the State 
Department was excluded from any meaningful involvement in the 
reconstruction of Iraq.

The administration's chief Iraq hawks shared a deeply naive view that 
the fall of Saddam and his top henchmen would have relatively little 
impact on the overall Iraqi governmental structure. They assumed that 
Iraq's bureaucracy would remain intact and would


therefore be capable of running the country and providing Iraqis with 
basic services. They likewise assumed that the Iraqi armed forces would 
largely remain cohesive and would surrender whole to U.S. forces. The 
result of all this was a fundamental lack of attention to realistic 
planning for the postwar environment.

As it was assumed that the Iraqis would be delighted to be liberated 
little thought was given to security requirements after Saddam's fall. 
The dearth of planning for the provision of security and basic services 
stemmed from the mistaken belief that Iraqi political institutions 
would remain largely intact and therefore able to handle those 
responsibilities.

But there were too few Coalition troops, which meant that long supply 
lines were vulnerable to attack by Iraqi irregulars, and the need to 
mask entire cities at times took so much combat power that it brought 
the entire offensive to a halt.

It was not long before these naive assumptions and inadequate 
planning conjoined to sow the seeds of the chaos we have witnessed in 
Iraq.

The lack of sufficient troops to secure the country led to the 
immediate outbreak of lawlessness resulting in massive looting and 
destruction dealt a stunning psychological blow to Iraqi confidence in 
the United States, from which the country has yet to recover. We 
removed Saddam Hussein's regime but we did not move to fill the 
military, political, and economic vacuum. The unintended consequence 
was the birth of a failing state, which provided the opportunity for 
the insurgency to flourish and prevented the development of 
governmental institutions capable of providing Iraqis with the most 
basic services such as clean water, sanitation, electricity, and a 
minimally functioning economy capable of generating basic employment.

Making matters worse, the administration arrogantly denied the United 
Nations overall authority for the reconstruction even though the U.N. 
had far more expertise and experience in nation building.

The looting and anarchy, the persistent insurgent attacks, the lack 
of real progress in restoring basic services, and the failure to find 
the promised weapons of mass destruction undercut the administration's 
claim that things were going well in Iraq and led it to make the next 
set of serious blunders, which was the disbanding of the Iraqi military 
and security services.

Madam Speaker, counterinsurgency experts will tell you that to pacify 
an occupied country it is essential to disarm, demobilize, and retrain 
(DDR) the local army. The idea behind a DDR program is to entice, 
cajole, or even coerce soldiers back to their own barracks or to other 
facilities where they can be fed, clothed, watched, retrained, and 
prevented from joining an insurgency movement, organized crime, or an 
outlaw militia.

By disbanding the military and security services without a DDR 
program, as many as one million Iraqi men were set at large with no 
money, no means to support their families, and no skills other than how 
to use a gun. Not surprisingly, many of these humiliated Sunni officers 
went home and joined the burgeoning Sunni insurgency.

The next major mistake made in the summer of 2003 was the decision to 
create an Iraqi Governing Council (IGC), which laid the foundation for 
many of Iraq's current political woes. Many of the IGC leaders were 
horribly corrupt, and they stole from the public treasury and 
encouraged their subordinates to do the same. The IGC set the tone for 
later Iraqi governments, particularly the transitional governments of 
Ayad Allawi and Ibrahim Jaafari that followed.

Finally, by insisting that all of the problems of the country were 
caused by the insurgency rather than recognizing the problems of the 
country were helping to fuel the insurgency, the Bush Administration 
set about concentrating its efforts in all the wrong places and on the 
wrong problems.

This explains why for nearly all of 2004 and 2005, our troops were 
disproportionately deployed in the Sunni triangle trying to catch and 
kill insurgents. Although our troops caught and killed insurgents by 
the hundreds and thousands, these missions were not significantly 
advancing our strategic objectives. Indeed, they had little long-term 
impact because insurgents are always willing to flee temporarily rather 
than fight a leviathan. Second, because so many coalition forces were 
playing ''whack-a-mole'' with insurgents in the sparsely populated 
areas of western Iraq, the rest of the country was left vulnerable to 
take over by militias.

Finally, Madam Speaker, a cruel irony is that because the Iraqi 
Government brought exiles and militia leaders into the government and 
gave them positions of power, it is now virtually impossible to get 
them out, and even more difficult to convince them to make compromises 
because the militia leaders have learned they can use their government 
positions to maintain and expand their personal power, at the expense 
both of their rivals who are not in the government and of the central 
government itself.

All of this was avoidable and the blame for the lack of foresight 
falls squarely on the White House and the Office of the Secretary of 
Defense.

Madam Speaker, the American people spoke loudly and clearly last 
November when they tossed out the Rubber-Stamp Republican Congress. 
They voted for a New Direction in Iraq and for change in America. They 
voted to disentangle American troops from the carnage, chaos, and civil 
war in Iraq. They voted for accountability and oversight, which we 
Democrats have begun to deliver on; already the new majority has held 
52 congressional hearings related to the Iraq War, investigating 
everything from the rampant waste, fraud, and abuse of Iraq 
reconstruction funding to troop readiness to the Iraq Study Group 
Report.

But President Bush is still not listening to America. He is acting as 
if nothing has changed. He is not offering a way out of Iraq, only a 
way forward that will take us deeper into the morass and quagmire.

The troop surge proposed by President Bush is not a new strategy for 
success in Iraq; it is just the same old repackaged policy of ''stay 
the course.'' This troop surge--this escalation of the war--will not 
provide lasting security for Iraqis. It is not what the American people 
have asked for, nor what the American military needs. It will impose 
excessive and unwarranted burdens on military personnel and their 
families. It is opposed by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It is opposed by 
an overwhelming majority of the American people. It is opposed by a 
majority in Congress.

The architects of the fiasco in Iraq would have us believe that 
''surging'' at least 20,000 more soldiers into Baghdad and nearby Anbar 
province is a change in military strategy that America must embrace or 
face future terrorist attacks on American soil. Nothing could be 
further from the truth, as we learned last year when the ''surge'' idea 
first surfaced among neoconservatives.

The President's proposed troop surge is not new and, judging from 
history, we know it will not work. It will only succeed in putting more 
American troops in harm's way for no good reason and without any 
strategic advantage. The armed forces of the United States are not to 
be used to respond to 911 calls from governments like Iraq's that have 
done all they can to take responsibility for the security of their 
country and safety of their own people. The United States cannot do for 
Iraq what Iraqis are not willing to do for themselves.

Troop surges have been tried several times in the past. The success 
of these surges has, to put it charitably, been underwhelming. Let's 
briefly review the record:

1. Operation Together Forward, (June-October 2006): In June the Bush 
administration announced a new plan for securing Baghdad by increasing 
the presence of Iraqi Security Forces. That plan failed, so in July the 
White House announced that additional American troops would be sent 
into Baghdad. By October, a U.S. military spokesman, Gen. William 
Caldwell, acknowledged that the operation and troop increase was a 
failure and had ''not met our overall expectations of sustaining a 
reduction in the levels of violence.''

2. Elections and Constitutional Referendum (September-December 2005): 
In the fall of 2005 the Bush administration increased troop levels by 
22,000, making a total of 160,000 American troops in Iraq around the 
constitutional referendum and parliamentary elections. While the 
elections went off without major violence these escalations had little 
long-term impact on quelling sectarian violence or attacks on American 
troops.

3. Constitutional Elections and Fallujah (November 2004-March 2005): 
As part of an effort to improve counterinsurgency operations after the 
Fallujah offensive in November 2004 and to increase security before the 
January 2005 constitutional elections U.S. forces were increased by 
12,000 to 150,000. Again there was no long-term security impact.

4. Massive Troop Rotations (December 2003-April 2004): As part of a 
massive rotation of 250,000 troops in the winter and spring of 2004, 
troop levels in Iraq were raised from 122,000 to 137,000. Yet, the 
increase did nothing to prevent Muqtada al-Sadr's Najaf uprising and 
April of 2004 was the second deadliest month for American forces.

Madam Speaker, by more than 60 percent, Americans oppose increasing 
American troop levels in Iraq. So do many of the nation's leading and 
most knowledgeable military officers. In testimony before the Senate, 
Gen. John P. Abizaid, the former Commander of United States Central 
Command, stated: ''I do not believe that more American troops right now 
is the solution to the problem. I believe that the troop levels need to 
stay where they are.'' General Abizaid's view is shared by Gen. Colin 
Powell, the former Secretary of State and former Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs, who has said ''I am not persuaded that another surge of troops 
into Baghdad for the purposes of suppressing this communitarian 
violence, this civil war, will work.'' And Gen. Barry


McCaffrey (retired), who commanded the 24th Infantry Division during 
the first Gulf War, is even more blunt: ''It's a fool's errand . . . 
Our allies are leaving us . . . Make no mistake about that. Most will 
be gone by this summer.''


Even leading members of the Republican Party are skeptical of the 
President's latest ploy to salvage the mess he has made of Iraq. 
According to Sen. Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, the President's escalation 
plan ''represents the most dangerous foreign policy blunder in this 
country since Vietnam--if it's carried out. I will resist it.'' Senator 
Hagel is joined in his skepticism by Senators Olympia Snowe, John 
Warner, Susan Collins, Gordon Smith, Norm Coleman, George Voinovich, 
Sam Brownback, Arlen Specter, and a growing list of others.

Madam Speaker, although Americans are right to oppose the President's 
troop surge, stemming the chaos in Iraq will require more than 
opposition to military escalation. It requires us to make hard choices.

It is past time for a new direction that can lead to success in Iraq. 
We cannot wait any longer. Too many Americans and Iraqis are dying who 
could otherwise be saved.

Since the President still has not seen the light, we need to make him 
feel the heat. I believe the time has come to debate, adopt, and 
implement a plan for strategic redeployment. I am not talking about 
''immediate withdrawal,'' ''cutting and running,'' or surrendering to 
terrorists. And I certainly am not talking about staying in Iraq 
forever or the foreseeable future.

I am talking about a paradigm shift. Rather than undertaking a 
misguided and futile surge in troops, the United States should surge 
diplomatically. The Armed Forces of the United States have performed 
magnificently. They won the war they were sent to fight. Their civilian 
leadership has not succeeded in winning the peace.

That is why I have introduced H.R. 930, which among other things 
creates a high-level Special Envoy to launch a new offensive on the 
diplomatic front. My legislation, the ''Military Success in Iraq and 
Diplomatic Surge for Political and National Reconciliation Act of 
2007,'' implements twelve of the most important recommendations of the 
Iraq Study Group, headed by former Secretary of State James A. Baker 
and 911 Co-Chairman Lee Hamilton.

Among other things, H.R. 930, would require a diplomatic full-court 
press designed to engage all six of Iraq's neighbors--Iran, Turkey, 
Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait--more constructively in 
stabilizing Iraq. These countries are already involved in a bilateral, 
self-interested and disorganized way.

While their interests and ours are not identical, none of these 
countries wants to live with an Iraq that, after our redeployment, 
becomes a failed state or a humanitarian catastrophe that could become 
a haven for terrorists or a hemorrhage of millions more refugees 
streaming into their countries.

Madam Speaker, when Congress authorized the president to use military 
force in Iraq in 2002, it departed from the wisdom of our forefathers. 
The Framers understood that while the military does the fighting, a 
nation goes to war. That is why they lodged the power to declare war in 
the Congress, the branch of government closest to the people. They knew 
that the decision to go to war was too important to be left to the whim 
of a single person, no matter how wise or well-informed he or she might 
be. But the AUMF passed by Congress was not a declaration of war but 
rather a blank check for the president to start and wage war in Iraq at 
a time, place, and manner of his choosing. It is time to rescind that 
blank check and return to first principles.

That is why H.R. 930 also includes another important legislative 
initiative, the ''Military Success in Iraq Act of 2007 (MSIA).'' This 
provision of my legislation is crafted to end the American military 
involvement in Iraq and redeploy American troops out of Iraq.

The MSIA declares that the objectives which led Congress to pass the 
2002 AUMF have been achieved. It further declares that whenever the 
objectives set forth in an AUMF have been achieved, the AUMF expires 
automatically. Then it finds that Congress is the ultimate arbiter as 
to whether the objectives set forth in its AUMF have been achieved.

Because Congress now finds that the 2002 AUMF objectives have been 
achieved, my legislation provides that the authorization to use force 
conferred upon the President by the AUMF has now expired. My bill then 
makes clear that the President must obtain a new authorization to 
continue the use force in Iraq. Finally, my bill requires that if the 
Congress does not vote to reauthorize the use of force in Iraq by March 
31, 2007, then all American armed forces in Iraq must be redeployed out 
of Iraq. Thus, under my legislation, an up-or-down vote must be held by 
the House and Senate to continue waging war in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, our domestic national security, in fact, rests on 
redeploying our military forces from Iraq in order to build a more 
secure Middle East and continue to fight against global terrorist 
networks elsewhere in the world. Strategic redeployment of our armed 
forces in order to rebuild our nation's fighting capabilities and renew 
our critical fight in Afghanistan against the Taliban and al-Qaeda is 
not just an alternative strategy. It's a strategic imperative.

My legislation requires the Congress to provide leadership on the 
most important issue of our day. That is what the American people want. 
That is what they voted for last November. That is what has been 
required all along.

And providing constructive leadership that will bring peace, enhance 
security, and save lives is the task to which I am now, and always have 
been, dedicated. That is why I strongly and proudly support our 
magnificent, heroic, and selfless service men and women. That is why I 
strongly support H. Con. Res 63 and squarely oppose the President's 
decision to escalate the war in Iraq. I urge all members to support the 
resolution before the House.