# None
## `041a90f3f9d02809af48554e1bfdd756`
`Mr. ROSS â€” 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Georgia for his heartfelt 
comments.

This war has had an impact on just about every family in America; and 
my brother-in-law, who is in the United States Air Force, career, is 
now in Kurdistan, which is one of the entry points to Afghanistan.

My first cousin, his wife, gave birth to their first child while he 
was in Iraq, and it has had a tremendous toll on the families, and not 
only for the military but also the citizen soldier, those who serve as 
members of a National Guard and as a member of an Army reserve.

When the President talks about a surge, when the President talks 
about adding another 21,500 troops to Iraq, that is code for calling 
back up the National Guard and the Reserves. Many folks in the National 
Guard today have been sent out of country at historic levels. In many 
instances, the citizen soldiers, those in the Guard, have been called 
up more times than some soldiers that are in the full-time military as 
a career. It has a tremendous toll on the family, the families that are 
left behind, and a huge increase in the number of divorces that occur 
when they come back.

The bottom line is we are creating a generation of veterans in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, and we can sit here and talk about being patriotic and 
supporting our soldiers all night long, but what is important is that 
we cast our votes in a way that honors them and ensures that they have 
health care and the things they need when they come back so hopefully 
we can minimize the number of divorces. We cannot do enough to thank 
our men and women in uniform for their service to our country.

One of the ways I think we can honor them is by demanding 
accountability for how tax money is being spent in Iraq, not only in 
the rebuilding efforts but also in support of them, making sure those 
men and women in uniform have the resources they need to stay safe 
while they are there.

Mr. Speaker, if you have got any comments, questions or concerns for 
us, I would encourage you to e-mail us at bluedog@mail.house.gov. 
Again, that is bluedog@mail.house.gov.

The gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Chandler) was talking about 
Halliburton earlier. Let me just make this quick point and I want to 
yield to the gentleman from Long Island, but last year, the Special 
Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction reported that the Coalition 
Provisional Authority could not track over $8 billion it had 
transferred to Iraqi ministries and that CPA officials left millions of 
dollars in cash unsecured in their offices.

Halliburton failed to complete required work under its oil 
infrastructure work, leaving distribution points unusable. Auditors in 
one region found that contract managers could not account for $97 
million disbursed from the development fund for Iraq.

Under its no-bid contract to rebuild Iraq's oil infrastructure 
contract, Halliburton overcharged by over 600 percent for the delivery 
of fuel from Kuwait. An audit of programs designed to train guards to 
protect Iraq's oil and electrical infrastructure concluded that U.S. 
agencies could not provide reasonable assurance that $147 million 
expended under these programs was used for its intended purpose.

In one case, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction 
found that a company which was awarded a security management contract 
worth


hundreds of millions of dollars could provide no assurance that it was 
providing the best possible safety for government and reconstruction 
personnel as required by the contract and could not even show that its 
employees, authorized to carry weapons, were trained to use those 
weapons.

Halliburton tripled the cost of hand towels, hand towels at taxpayer 
expense, by insisting on having its own embroidered logo on each towel, 
and Halliburton employees dumped 50,000 pounds of nails in the desert. 
Why? Because they ordered the wrong size, all at taxpayer expense 
because it was a cost-plus contract.

Halliburton double charged tax payers for $617,000 worth of soda and 
charged taxpayers for services that it never provided and tens of 
thousands of meals that it never served our soldiers.

That is why, Mr. Speaker, we have filed H. Res. 97 to demand 
accountability on how tax money is being spent in Iraq, and I yield to 
the gentleman from Long Island.