# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `0434835915fffd8986f4d7ee60f97feb`
`Mrs. BONO â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mrs. BONO. Madam Speaker, I rise today in opposition to House 
Concurrent Resolution 63, the non-binding Iraq War Policy resolution.

We are being asked today to vote on a non-binding resolution that 
stands as nothing more than a political statement on an issue that 
greatly transcends the politics of the Nation's capital. The importance 
of ensuring our troops have the supplies and equipment they require for 
battle is clear. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to use valuable 
time during this legislative week to address true tangible needs that 
exist for those with enough courage to stand up for the freedoms our 
country affords.

The importance of a stable and secure Iraq should not be 
underestimated, given the responsibility to assist the Iraqi people to 
further their personal freedoms. Sadaam Hussein's brutal dictatorship 
is one that cannot be soon forgotten. Those who share his world view of 
oppressing fundamental human rights must know that we Americans will 
continue to support policies that will protect all citizens from these 
radical and militant Islamic terrorist cells. This battle is only one 
front on the larger war on terror, and today's non-binding resolution 
does nothing to achieve more stability in the international community.

To me, supporting this resolution only serves the purely political 
purpose of second-guessing a decision already made to move forward by 
the Commander in Chief. Those voting in favor of this resolution appear 
only to have a hunger to score meaningless political points, while 
lacking an appetite for pursuing the larger goals of keeping our brave 
soldiers equipped as they strive to ensure the safety of our country 
and citizens abroad.

I would like to make clear that I have grave reservations regarding 
the current situation in Iraq. For too long, circumstances have limited 
our ability to reduce the sectarian violence plaguing this region, 
especially in Baghdad. It is critical that we see a greater commitment 
from the Iraqi government and the citizens of Iraq to help quell the 
insurgency. I question whether or not this increased level of force 
will accomplish the desired goal but I also respect the need to explore 
all options to stabilize the situation in this troubled country. My 
hope is that General Petraeus, given his extensive direct experience in 
training our troops on the ground, will have a strong sense of what can 
be achieved on the ground given the challenges of the future.

My vote today is not an open-ended endorsement of the policy in Iraq. 
Rather, I will continue to monitor closely the situation and encourage 
continued Congressional oversight of the war. Today's debate displays 
the different views that we hold on this matter, but we should be 
unified in our support of those


who are moving forward to complete the mission at hand. Recognizing 
that continued difficulties lie ahead, we should again not be voting on 
a resolution that will achieve a political end, rather we should be 
looking for ways to help those soldiers who continue to carry out this 
mission or have returned from battle.

Our vote today is one that will be remembered as either for or 
against a decision already made by the Commander in Chief. In the short 
term, though, we should remember this nonbinding resolution serves no 
practical purpose in our larger fight against the war on terror.