# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `0456847282e922494443f9225f06b60a`
`Mr. MOORE of Kansas â€” 30 October 2007`

---


Mr. MOORE of Kansas. I thank Congressman Ross, and Mr. Speaker, for 
letting us speak this evening.

The Blue Dogs, as Congressman Ross said, have introduced H. Res. 97, 
Providing for Operation Iraqi Freedom Cost Accountability, to address 
the lack of oversight and accountability with regard to our Federal 
Government's funding of the war in Iraq.

H. Res. 97 currently has 63 cosponsors, myself included, and puts 
forward commonsense proposals that ensure future transparency and 
accountability in the funding of Operation Iraqi Freedom. This, I 
believe, is an important first step toward making sure that more 
resources get to our troops in the field and are not wasted on other 
things. We want to make sure that our brave men and women serving in 
Iraq and Afghanistan have what they need to do their job.

H. Res. 97 focuses on four crucial points for demanding fiscal 
responsibility in Iraq: number 1, a call for transparency on how Iraq 
War funds are spent; number 2, the creation of a Truman Commission to 
investigate the awarding of contracts to make sure they are fairly 
awarded and get what they're intended to secure; number 3, a 
requirement to fund the Iraq war through the normal appropriations 
process and not through emergency supplementals as we have done 
throughout this whole war; and number 4, using American resources to 
improve Iraqi assumption of internal policing operations.

Recently, Mr. Speaker, members of the Blue Dog Coalition worked 
together with House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton of 
Missouri to include key provisions of H. Res. 97 in the fiscal year 
2008 national defense authorization bill. In doing so, we took the 
first step toward ensuring complete fiscal transparency in the funding 
of the war in Iraq.

The American people deserve to know how their tax dollars are being 
spent and that they're being spent wisely and that our troops have the 
resources they need to do their job and to protect themselves in the 
field.

The Blue Dogs, Mr. Speaker, are committed to passing legislation that 
accomplishes this goal, to give our troops what they need and make sure 
they have the resources they need to protect themselves as well.

Mr. Speaker, I've been a member of the Blue Dog group for more than 9 
years now, and in that period of time I have learned, and I've said 
this to my folks back home over and over and over again, 80 percent, 85 
percent of what we do up here in Congress should not be about Democrats 
and Republicans. We ought to be working for our people and for our 
country. And when I say that back home, I see people every time and in 
the audience sitting there shaking their heads yes. They're tired of 
the partisanship up here. They want us working together to do what's 
right for our people and our country.

I have now eight grandchildren, Mr. Speaker, and we have mortgaged 
their future. Mr. Ross had a chart up here just a few minutes ago that 
showed we have a national debt in excess of $9 trillion, and we're 
passing that debt, Mr. Speaker, on to our children and grandchildren. 
To me that is immoral.

We ought to change the way we're doing business here in Congress and 
do like most families. Most American families live within a budget, not 
all but most, and we should be doing the same thing. That's what our 
Blue Dog organization is all about, making sure that we, as a Nation, 
try to live and do live within the resources that we have and not pass 
this debt on to our children and grandchildren.

I thank Congressman Ross.

