# AMERICA COMPETES ACT
## `04a1973d5d9278207e514de34240ee59`
`Mr. ALEXANDER â€” 23 April 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, before the Senator from Alaska speaks 
and while the Senator from Hawaii will be here for a while longer, I 
wanted to call attention to their leadership on this bill and their 
sense of urgency about the importance of it in the Commerce Committee.

I wanted to relate specifically an event a year ago, in August, in 
Beijing, China, which I related on the floor when the bill was 
introduced. I think it puts into perspective why so many Senators on 
both sides of the aisle have worked on that, why the bill is being 
introduced by both the Democratic and Republican leaders, and why it 
came directly to the floor and is ready for action.

Senator Stevens and Senator Inouye took a group of Senators to China. 
They were especially well received--this Congressional Medal of Honor 
winner and this Flying Tiger pilot who flew the first cargo plane into 
Beijing toward the end of World War II. As a result, we spent an hour 
with President Hu and another hour with the No. 2 man, Vice Premier Wu. 
We talked about all of the things one would expect in that discussion: 
North Korea, Iran, and Iraq. But the subject, I recall, about which 
both of those leaders of China were most animated was the subject we 
are discussing on the floor today: How is China going to increase its 
brainpower advantage so it can create more jobs?

President Hu told us that he had done what we are doing today but in 
the Chinese way. He had, a month earlier, gone to the Great Hall of the 
People in China and assembled their national academy of science and 
engineering of China and established a 15-year goal for innovation and 
declared they would spend a certain amount in research and investment. 
That was the way they were going to raise their standard of living to 
compete with the United States. We see that with the recruitment of 
Chinese-born scholars who were educated in the United States and are 
going back to China to create even better universities there. We saw, 
under the sponsorship of these two Senators, that the two top leaders 
of that country understand very well America's brainpower advantage, 
which has been the greatest source of this remarkably high standard of 
living we have, and the fact that we produce 30 percent of all of the 
money in the world for just 5 percent of the people. I wanted to 
acknowledge their leadership and put into perspective that visit just 
last year in China.