# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `04beafb97d235733a0d07c8f42561818`
`Mr. CONYERS â€” 25 October 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, today the House votes yet again on 
legislation that never should have been a subject of controversy: a 
bill that provides health care for our Nation's children. When we 
debated overriding the President's veto of the original SCHIP bill last 
week, most House Republicans offered excuses for denying children 
health care based on a series of misrepresentations and distortions of 
the facts. Today the bill's opponents have no more excuses to hide 
behind. We have consulted with Republicans who want to support this 
bill and have amended it to address their concerns. It should now be 
clear to all that the real reason some continue to oppose SCHIP is 
because they oppose universal health care for all Americans.

Republicans voting no on last week's veto override offered four 
reasons for their unwillingness to support health coverage for 
America's children. These concerns had, in fact, already been addressed 
in the original bill, but now we have dealt with them even more 
explicitly.

Republicans argued that the bill did not focus enough on covering 
poor children. I find this particular objection rather ironic, since 
the same Republicans who used this argument rarely support legislation 
designed to help the poor. But, it is not surprising that they would 
use disingenuous tactics to block health care for children. For them, 
anything goes when it comes to stopping Americans from getting the 
radical idea that the government should guarantee this basic human 
right. This revised bill addresses those arguments by mandating that 
SCHIP eligibility will be capped at families earning 300 percent of the 
federal poverty level, around $60,000 for a family of four, and by 
offering bonus payments to States for enrolling the lowest income 
children into Medicaid.

Opponents of health care for children contended that the original 
bill provided coverage to illegal immigrants. In reality, this bill 
denied coverage to all immigrants, even legal ones, explicitly stating 
that illegal immigrants were ineligible. But these facts did not hinder 
the Republicans from making their false claim. We have now clarified 
our intent that illegal immigrants will not be covered by requiring 
that applicants for SCHIP provide their Social Security number, which 
must be verified by the Social Security Administration.

Republicans opposed the original bill because it allowed States to 
use the funding to cover adults. For them, a person's right to health 
care ends at age 18. I would disagree, but in any case this bill now 
phases out any adults covered under SCHIP over a 1-year period, instead 
of the 2-year period under the original bill.


Finally, further changes have been made to clarify that this 
legislation is designed to minimize children moving from private 
insurance to SCHIP, also known as ''crowd-out.'' I am a critic of 
private health insurance, with its costly and unnecessary 
administrative, waste, advertising and profits, but this bill should 
allay any concern that a government health plan, with its much lower 
overhead costs and more comprehensive coverage, would diminish the role 
of private insurance companies. We will actually allow States to 
subsidize people to buy private coverage under this bill to prevent 
them from moving to government coverage.

The President and his supporters are now left with only one argument 
for opposing this bill: that it costs too much. The original House-
passed version authorized an additional $50 billion for SCHIP over 5 
years; our compromise with the Senate brought the total down to $35 
billion. This additional funding will ensure that SCHIP will cover 10 
million children who otherwise would not have access to health care. 
The President began this debate by offering to add only $5 billion, 
which would have resulted in 800,000 children currently covered by 
SCHIP losing their coverage. He is now saying that he's willing to go 
to up to $20 billion, but no more. I would like the President to 
explain to the American people how he can afford $12 billion for a 
single month in Iraq but can't seem to find $35 billion over 5 years to 
give our children health care. Supporters of the contention that we 
can't afford this bill either care more about war than children, or are 
simply not serious.

Now that the Republicans' stated reasons for opposing this 
legislation have been addressed, one wonders what is actually 
motivating those who will continue to vote no. I believe that the 
President and his supporters continue to oppose this legislation 
because they are afraid. They are afraid of SCHIP because it 
demonstrates that health care guaranteed by the government is workable, 
it is affordable, and it is popular. They worry that if SCHIP is 
expanded, even more Americans will begin to demand that the government 
guarantee health care to all our citizens, not just to poor children. 
After all, every other industrialized nation does so, while spending 
less than we do and while achieving better health outcomes for its 
citizens. These Republicans apparently intend to use every means at 
their disposal to ensure that health care in this country remains a 
privilege for those who can afford it, rather than a right guaranteed 
to all.

Madam Speaker, today's vote raises a moral question. Simply put: will 
we, as a nation, take responsibility for ensuring that our children 
have the health care they need? Any other issue raised in this debate, 
particularly given the revisions to the bill, is an obfuscation meant 
to hide the fact that the party claiming the mantle of ''family 
values'' is in fact unwilling to back that slogan with substance. There 
is only one vote today that truly supports America's families. It is a 
vote in favor of this legislation.