# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `04f7e772619e06052ae11955458cb0d9`
`Mr. SESSIONS â€” 29 January 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Chair and I thank Senator 
Cornyn and Senator Kyl for their remarks. I share with Senator Kyl his 
concern over the resolution that we will be apparently addressing later 
this week or next week. He quoted an NBC News report in which soldiers 
in Iraq in harm's way said that, in their view, you can't support the 
soldiers without supporting the policy we sent them on, and that is a 
troubling thing.

Today I talked to a businessman from Alabama--quite a fine, 
upstanding leader in the community. His son is in Iraq right now. They 
already heard about the Senate Foreign Relations Committee resolution. 
It was very troubling to them. They didn't know how to read it, 
according to him, or what it meant to them. I talked to a lady not long 
ago, within the last week, and she told me her son was in his second 
tour there, and he believed in what he was doing. He was proud to 
serve, but he didn't know what we were doing here. He said he: ''Didn't 
want to be the last soldier to die if we weren't going to follow 
through on a policy that we have set here.''

So we are in a difficult time, and we need to remember those things 
as we set about our policy. I don't know all of the answers. I don't 
disrespect people who would disagree with me on this. I know there are 
a lot of people with a lot of different ideas about what to do in Iraq. 
But my observation is and my thought is that we, as a Congress, ought 
to affirm the policies we are asking our soldiers to execute. They say 
we are not asking them, but the President is, and the President speaks 
for us, until Congress withdraws that power by reducing his funding. 
The President executes the policies as Commander in Chief. So it is a 
big deal and we need to be careful about what we do and I am 
disappointed we will be dealing with those resolutions.

Mr. President, I remember during the immigration debate last fall, 
last summer and spring, Senator Kennedy and I were on the floor one 
night, and I talked about how I believe the large amount of immigration 
we are seeing today, much of it illegal, was adversely affecting the 
wages of American workers. Senator Kennedy didn't object to that, but 
he stood up and in response basically said: Well, we are going to offer 
a minimum wage bill, and that is going to take care of it. If anyone 
heard Senator Lamar Alexander's speech on Friday--and not many people 
did; it was after the vote had been cast--but he went into some detail 
and with great care explained how the minimum wage is not reaching poor 
working people in this country in the ways most people think it is but 
that most people making minimum wage are part of a household whose 
income exceeds $40,000 a year, I believe was the figure he cited, and 
there are a number of studies on that. The point being that usually it 
is a transition period for young people or others--maybe they are part 
time and that kind of thing.

I am not saying people would not like an increase in the minimum 
wage, but the working poor, the people who are every day out giving 
their best to try to raise their families and who need to have a higher 
income, people who have been out there for years and working, they are 
already above $7 an hour, for the most part. If they show up on time 
and are reliable and give an honest day's work, as almost all of them 
do, then they are going to be above $7 an hour now. Do you follow me? 
So this is not the panacea we are concerned about. What we want and 
what we care about, fellow citizens and Members of the Senate, is 
having better wages for working Americans, having all the people be 
able to go out and get a better wage they can take home and take care 
of their families with. That includes how much taxes are taken out, how 
much insurance is taken out.

President Bush has a great proposal that is going to help a lot of 
people. I assure my colleagues a lot of people will feel a substantial 
benefit from this health care tax credit plan he has proposed. That is 
a way to help working people, a real significant way.

Senator Alexander mentioned the earned-income tax credit, and he went 
into some detail about it. Economists and experts are quite clear: The 
earned-income tax credit more appropriately benefits working Americans 
than a minimum wage at much less cost. We spend $40 billion a year on 
the earned-income tax credit. That is what the credit amounts to in 
terms of benefits to working Americans. Their wages are lower, and, at 
certain levels, they don't qualify for other benefits. And as a result, 
they do qualify for the earned-income tax credit. So I would like to 
talk about that.

I offered an amendment that would have required the earned-income tax 
credit to be paid on individual's paychecks, when they get their 
paycheck each payday. That is correct, in my view, as a matter of 
policy. It is a complex thing. Some are concerned about the mechanics 
of it. So I offered another amendment that was accepted by the 
Democratic leadership and the Republican leadership that required the 
Department of the Treasury to review what would happen and how it could 
be done if we allowed people to get their earned-income tax credit on 
their weekly or biweekly paycheck. It can be done now. In fact, a 
little less than 2 percent of the people get their earned-income tax 
credit, or at least a portion of it, on their check each week.

So we would like to talk about that because as we debate the minimum 
wage, the real debate is how to help working Americans, middle-class 
Americans, lower income Americans get more legitimate pay for the work 
they do.

Now, that is what we are all about; not some fetish with having an 
increase in the minimum wage, particularly when it is not going to be 
as effective in meeting the needs of the working poor, as is being sold 
to this Congress and the American people.

In 2004, more than 22 million Americans--get this--more than 22 
million Americans claimed the earned-income tax credit, putting $40.7 
billion into the pockets of the working poor. This is a very large 
program. It is a very large shift of resources to the working poor. The 
amount of the credit for each recipient depends on several factors, 
such as the worker's income and the number of dependent children they 
claim.

Nonetheless, a low-income worker with one child will be eligible to 
claim up to $2,853 for tax year 2007, while a worker with two or more 
children could receive $4,718 on a 2,200-hour work year. The average 
earned-income tax credit for a beneficiary with a qualifying child was 
$1,728 in 2004. That is almost $1 an hour on average.

Many have criticized the earned-income tax credit over the years, 
saying it is another welfare handout and it has far too much fraud in 
it. Some numbers have shown fraud as high as over 30 percent, but the 
tax credit is here to stay. I don't see any real movement to eliminate 
it. Why don't we see if we can make it work better?

The idea is to reward work. It is a benefit of the Government, an 
earned tax credit, earned by working. That was the purpose of the 
earned-income tax credit from the beginning, to encourage welfare 
recipients and others who were not in the workforce to decide that it 
was beneficial for them to work. Some of this came from Milton 
Friedman, the great free market economist who recently died, calling 
for a negative income tax. That is sort of what inspired this.

All is not perfect. The earned-income tax credit has provided real 
money for low-income Americans working hard to pull their family out of 
poverty. As Senator Alexander demonstrated in some detail, remarkably 
and ably, it gets to the working poor far better than an increase in 
the minimum wage.

An important feature added to the earned-income tax credit occurred 
in 1978, a few years after the law was passed. That allows the credit 
recipients to receive the benefit on their paychecks rather than as a 
one-time lump sum tax refund. Now, you work all year. Most people have 
no idea if they are earning any earned-income tax credit. They are not 
receiving extra money for their work. And next year, they file for a 
tax refund and get a big check, disconnecting, in their minds, the 
receipt of that check with the work they did the year before. 
Therefore, it ceases to be the kind of incentive to work we want it to 
be.

Receiving an advanced payment under the law is simple. Workers 
believing they will be eligible can fill out


a form or W-5 with their employer, and once completed workers will 
receive part of their EITC benefit on their paycheck based on the 
amount they are expected to receive over the year based on their 
income. So despite a number of campaigns by the IRS to increase the 
number that sign up for this advance payment, only a few do, less than 
2 percent. The majority, unaware they can receive the credit in 
advance, receive it in the form of a tax refund in the spring of the 
next year.

Recipients earn the tax credit by working throughout the year. Yet 
they do not receive the benefit until months after when they file their 
tax returns. For most workers who receive the EITC as a lump sum at the 
end of the year, they never make that connection between the increased 
work and the increased paycheck, as they simply receive a fat check.

How can it encourage work if there is no correlation for most 
recipients between the work they do and the money they receive?

An amendment, which the Senate has already accepted, challenges the 
Secretary of the Treasury, the Department of the Treasury, to get us a 
report on how we can do this effectively. It is important. It will 
ensure the taxpayers who are giving this benefit to working Americans 
get the second part of the benefit that the taxpayers intended them to 
receive.

The first part, of course, is helping the working poor have more 
money for their families. We want to help them. The second benefit we 
want to occur is for the overall economy and health of America to 
encourage people to work, to make work more rewarding. If you are 
making $7 an hour and you get $1 an hour pay raise as a result of the 
earned-income tax credit, you have received a substantial increase, 
well over 10 percent increase in your take home pay, especially since 
there are no taxes taken out of that part that has accrued as a result 
of the earned-income tax credit.

That encourages work. That makes work more attractive. That helps 
meet the needs of America today. That is what this is about. A worker 
who is making $6 an hour would be making closer to $7. Workers making 
$8 would be making closer to $9. It adds up to real money as the years 
go by.

We can do a much better job of utilizing the existing program without 
any cost beyond what we are already expending, but in a way that gets 
money to people when they need it, right then on their paycheck. They 
may have a tire blow out and they need a new tire. The transmission may 
have broken in their car. A child may need to go on a trip at school. 
They need the money as they earn it so they can apply it in a sound way 
to their family's budgetary needs instead of one big fat check sometime 
in the spring of the next year. That is a suggestion I have for 
improving the quality of life for American workers.

Another sense-of-the-Senate amendment I offered, that was accepted, 
we voted on 98 to 0, was to call on Congress to state that it is a 
sense of the Senate that we should do a better job in Congress of 
establishing a uniform savings plan for Americans. We in the Government 
have a wonderful plan called the thrift plan. It allows every Federal 
worker, in any department or agency, to put money in the thrift plan 
and the Federal Government would match up to 5 percent of their 
contributions.

Many young people starting to work for the Government today, if they 
contribute 5 percent each paycheck, with the Government matching it, 
will retire with $1 million in the bank--trust me on that--with the 
power of compound interest. It is an exciting program.

Many private companies have similar programs, 401(k)-type programs, 
but many don't. Half of the workers in America today work for a company 
that does not have such a retirement plan. A chunk of those, even if 
they do, don't take advantage of it. This is particularly concerning to 
me because I have learned from Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao that the 
average American has nine jobs by the time they are 35. What does that 
say to the practical men and women of the Senate? It says they are 
bouncing around a lot. They may go to a company that has a plan and 
they may invest in it a little bit, then they go to a company that 
doesn't. Or they go to a company that says they have to work for 6 
months or a year before they can participate in their plan, or they 
decide not to put into that plan. Or, if they put in some money and 
they change jobs and the account is $500, $2,000, $1,500--we have 
statistics that show that over 40 percent of them cash in those 
accounts paying the penalties--they think it is not enough money to 
worry about.


Whereas, if they set aside a small amount of money from the day they 
start working at age 18, or out of college, every day, every paycheck, 
a small amount of money set aside as is done by most of the thrift 
account savers, they could retire with hundreds of thousands in the 
bank, which would allow for an annuity, if they purchased it at age 65, 
to pay someone $2,000 a month for the rest of their life, easy. Those 
things are realistically possible.

It is a great tragedy, it is a tremendous national tragedy, that in a 
time where we have relatively low unemployment--in my State it is not 
much over 3 percent, maybe 3.6 percent in Alabama--and most people are 
working, the wages have gone up, although not as much as we would like, 
but our wages are beginning to edge back up, that most Americans are 
not saving. They could be setting aside even a small amount that would 
transform their retirement years from retirement years that depend 
solely on Social Security, the retirement years can be supplemented by 
a substantial flow of money.

Finally, I talk about another subject, our general concern that wages 
have not kept up in America. I share that concern. I have heard the 
economists make the argument--many in the business community are people 
I respect--make the argument that wages tend to lag behind. Gross 
domestic production growth goes up for a while and wages do not go up, 
but they catch up, and there is some truth to that. I don't deny that.

But if you look at the numbers and how middle-class and lower income 
workers are getting along today, you cannot be pleased with what is 
occurring, particularly in certain areas and certain fields. It is from 
that perspective I say, as part of this debate over minimum wage which 
we are told is designed to help people have more money to take home, to 
take care of their families, and if you think this is not the right way 
to do it, you don't love families and you don't want to help poor 
people; that is not correct.

I hope to be able to vote for this minimum wage bill. I voted for 
several to increase the minimum wage. I am just saying the minimum wage 
has been demonstrated by analysis, by top-flight econometric firms, 
that it does not reach the poor people in a way that most people think 
it does. It oftentimes helps young people who are children of some 
corporate executive who may be working.

Our motivation, and I think it is universal in the Senate, through 
the legislation moving through the Senate now, is designed to improve 
the take-home pay of Americans so they can more ably benefit from the 
great American dream and take care of their families effectively.

Significant economic evidence indicates the presence of large amounts 
of illegal labor in low-skilled job sectors is depressing the wages of 
American workers. That is an important statement if it is true, right? 
If that is true, isn't that important? First of all, we are a nation of 
laws. We think the laws ought to be enforced.

Overwhelmingly the American people agree with that. But if it also is 
depressing the wages of working Americans, that is a double concern, 
particularly as we are asking ourselves in this debate: How can we help 
low-wage workers do better? I will talk about that. We have to talk 
about this.

Harvard economist George Borjas, who testified before the Senate 
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, and Lawrence Katz, 
also of Harvard, estimate that the influx of low-skilled, low-wage 
immigration into our country from 1980 to 2000 has resulted in a 3-
percent decrease in wages for the average American worker--that is all 
workers--and has cut wages to native-born high school dropouts--those 
who have not obtained a high school degree; unfortunately, we have 
quite a number of those in our country--who make up the poorest 10 
percent of our workforce, by some 8 percent. Eight percent, if you 
figure that


out on a yearly basis, amounts to $1,200 a year. That is $100 a month.


Now, for some people in America today, $100 a month is not a lot. But 
if you are making near the minimum wage, $100 a month is a lot of 
money.

Alan Tonelson, a research fellow at the U.S. Business and Industry 
Council Educational Foundation, says:




 [T]he most important statistics available show conclusively 


 that, far from easing shortages--


Shortages of labor--



 illegal immigrants are adding to labor gluts in America. 


 Specifically, wages in sectors highly dependent on illegals, 


 when adjusted for inflation, are either stagnant or have 


 actually fallen.


Now, he is referring to Labor Department data and information from 
the Pew Hispanic Center. For example, he cites data from the U.S. 
Bureau of Labor Statistics that indicates the following: inflation-
adjusted wages for the broad Food and Services and Drinking 
Establishments category--they have a category for that: the broad Food 
and Services and Drinking Establishments category; and they monitor the 
wages for it--between the years 2000 to 2005 fell 1.65 percent.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that illegal immigrants comprise 17 
percent of food preparation workers, 20 percent of cooks, and 23 
percent of dishwashers, about a fifth of those workers; three-fifths, 
four-fifths being legal native citizens. But contrary to what we have 
been told, that you cannot get workers at the wages they are paying, 
and paying fair wages, it looks as though the wages have fallen, which 
is a matter of interest.

Inflation-adjusted wages for the food manufacturing industry--the Pew 
Hispanic Center estimates that illegal immigrants comprise 14 percent 
of that workforce--fell 2.4 percent between 2000 and 2005.

Inflation-adjusted wages for hotel workers--the Pew Hispanic Center 
estimates illegal immigrants make up 10 percent of that workforce--fell 
1 percent from 2000 to 2005.

Inflation-adjusted wages in the construction industry--Pew estimates 
that illegal immigrants make up 12 percent of the workforce there--fell 
1.59 percent between 2000 and 2005.

Inflation-adjusted wages in the animal processing and slaughtering 
subcategory--and Pew estimates that illegal immigrants comprise 27 
percent of that workforce, the highest percentage--fell 1.41 percent 
between 2000 and 2005.

So if these numbers are correct--and they come from the objective BLS 
and are supposed to be accurate, and we rely on them for our business 
around here--something is amiss if people say they cannot get workers, 
yet they are getting the work done, and they are paying less in 2005 
than they were in 2000.

Now, you tell me.

Others studying the same issue have found similar trends. According 
to a recent City Journal article by Steven Malanga, a senior fellow at 
the Manhattan Institute:



 . . . low-wage immigration has produced such a labor surplus 


 that many of these workers are willing to take jobs without 


 benefits and with salaries far below industry norms. . . .


Well, let me go on. Day laborers--these are people who gather at 
certain known locations within areas, and they hang out until somebody 
comes out and hires them--who work in construction in urban areas 
''like New York and Los Angeles . . . sell their labor by the hour or 
the day, for $7 to $11 an hour . . . far below what full time 
construction workers earn.''

You see, we want Americans to be able to have a job that has some 
permanency to it, that pays a decent wage, that has retirement 
benefits, and has health care benefits. But our workers who might be 
interested in construction--and more are than most people think--are 
having to compete against people who will work by the day for $7 and 
$11 an hour and do not demand any benefits.

Robert Samuelson, a contributing editor of Newsweek, has written a 
column for the Washington Post since 1977. In his column last spring he 
summed up the impact of illegal immigration on the unskilled American 
worker this way:




 Poor immigrant workers hurt the wages of unskilled 


 Americans. The only question is how much. Studies suggest a 


 range ''from negligible to an earnings reduction of almost 10 


 percent,'' according to the [Congressional Budget Office].


That is a lot: 10 percent. Five percent is a lot.

To put this impact into a larger perspective, one might ask how much 
native workers have lost as a whole due to competition with low-skilled 
immigrant laborers. Although only a few studies have ever looked at 
this issue, a 2002 National Bureau of Economic Research paper written 
by Columbia University economics professors Donald R. Davis and David 
E. Weinstein is on point.

Using complex methodology, they aggregated the total loss to the U.S. 
native workers and found that the magnitude of losses for U.S. native 
workers equates roughly to $72 billion a year, or .8 percent of GDP. 
Now, I don't know if that figure is correct, but the earned income tax 
credit is just $40 billion a year, and they say it amounts to $72 
billion a year. The economics professors at Columbia University also 
said immigration is as costly to the United States as all trade 
protections.

When wages are suppressed, people drop out of the workforce. In 
addition to the evidence that low-skilled American workers--and 
particularly African-American workers--are suffering wage suppression 
due to the competition they face from illegal alien labor, we also know 
competition is causing some Americans to drop out of the labor force.

Steven Camorota, last spring, of the Center for Immigration Studies, 
analyzed the steady decline in the share of less-educated adult natives 
in the workforce between March 2000 and March 2005.

Prior to Hurricane Katrina, there were 4 million unemployed natives--
those looking for jobs who were unable to find them--with high school 
degrees or less in the workforce. An additional 19 million natives with 
high school degrees or less existed but were not actively looking for 
jobs.

Between 2000 and 2005, the number of adult immigrants--legal land 
illegal--with only a high school degree or less in the labor force 
increased by 1.6 million.


During the same time period, unemployment among high school graduates 
and less educated native Americans increased by nearly 1 million--so 
unemployment among our high school graduates or high school dropouts 
increased by nearly 1 million--and an additional 1.5 million left the 
workforce altogether.

Although jobs grew in the United States from 2000 to 2005, natives 
only benefited from 9 percent of the total net job increase. That is an 
important factor. Although jobs grew in the U.S. from 2000 to 2005, 
natives only benefited from 9 percent of that total. The number of 
adult natives holding a job grew by only 303,000, while the number of 
adult immigrants holding a job increased by 2.9 million. So it is 
303,000 compared to 2.9 million among high school graduates or high 
school dropouts.

Steven Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, recently 
explained:




 [M]any of the unskilled, uneducated workers now journeying 


 here labor . . . in shrinking industries, where they force 


 out native workers, and many others work in industries where 


 the availability of cheap workers has led businesses to 


 suspend investment in new technologies that would make them 


 less labor-intensive. . . . [T]he unemployment rate among 


 native-born ''unskilled workers is high--about 30 percent.''


The unemployment rate among native-born, unskilled workers is about 
30 percent, I repeat.

To me, those numbers do indicate a significant problem. It is a 
problem we need to talk about as we talk about how to help working 
Americans get a better wage.

Mr. President, I will note a few more points before I wrap up.

Professor Richard Freeman--the Herbert S. Ascherman Professor of 
Economics at Harvard--testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
I participated in that hearing last spring. He said:




 If you're a poor Mexican, your income in the U.S. will be 


 six to eight times what it is in Mexico.


Robert Samuelson explained in a March 2006 column in the Washington 
Post:




 They're drawn here by wage differences, not labor 


 ''shortages.''





American workers, I think it is fair to say, cannot compete with the 
wage gap between their country and other countries. I was in South 
America last May with Senator Specter. We visited Peru, and we saw a 
poll that had just been published in Nicaragua while we were there that 
said 60 percent of the people in Nicaragua would come to the United 
States if they could. I mentioned that to the State Department team 
there in Peru, and they told me that a poll in Peru had recently shown, 
just about this time last year, that 70 percent of the people in Peru 
would come to the United States if they could.

So I guess what I am saying to my colleagues is, we need an 
immigration policy that allows immigration and that is consistent with 
our historic values as a nation that welcomes immigrants, but the 
numbers and the skill sets that they bring ought to be such that they 
do not depress wages of our lower income people because we cannot 
accept everybody in the world who would like to come here. It is not 
physically possible to any degree that we could accept that.

We have a lottery section that does not have any requirements of 
skills in it. You apply to it if you want to come to America. It allows 
for 50,000 to be drawn out of a hat each year. And those who are drawn 
get to come to America on a random basis. We had 5 million people, 
according to Professor Borjas at Harvard, who applied for those 50,000 
slots. I do not blame people who want to come here. I am not demeaning 
them. Most of them are good and decent people who want to get ahead. 
But we have such a higher wage base that we could attract people from 
all over the world in virtually unlimited numbers, and it does have the 
impact, if allowed to be too great and too concentrated in certain 
industries, to pull down American wages.

While we are thinking about how to increase the wages of American 
workers, we need to think about that. That is all I am saying. And we 
are going to talk about that if we talk about immigration this year, as 
I expect we will. We can have immigration, but it needs to be done 
right.

How do we level the playing field? Let's consider the advice given by 
Dr. Barry Chiswick. He is the head of the Department of Economics at 
the University of Illinois in Chicago. He testified before the Senate 
Judiciary Committee last spring, stating:




 [T]he large increase in low-skilled immigration . . . has 


 had the effect of decreasing the wages and employment 


 opportunities of low-skilled workers who are currently 


 residing in the United States.

He goes on to say:




 Over the past two decades . . . The real earnings of low 


 skilled workers have either stagnated or decreased somewhat.



 [W]e . . . need to . . . provide greater assistance to low-


 skilled Americans in their quest for better jobs and higher 


 wages. [O]ne of the best ways we can help them in this regard 


 is by reducing the very substantial competition that they are 


 facing from this very large and uncontrolled low-skilled 


 immigration that is the result of both our legal immigration 


 system and the absence of enforcement of immigration law.


That is pretty much indisputable. I haven't heard a professor who 
would dispute that yet, or anybody who can seriously object to those 
numbers.

Professor Harry Holzer, associate dean and professor of public policy 
at Georgetown University, a great university here, also testified at 
that same hearing. He believes American workers do want jobs currently 
being held by illegal laborers.

I don't agree with this idea that these are jobs Americans want to 
take. Americans are not interested in a job that is only going to last 
for 3 months, that pays the minimum wage and has no health care and no 
retirement benefits. I will say that. And neither do we want them to 
take those jobs.

Professor Holzer believes that absent illegal immigrant competition, 
employers would raise wages and improve working conditions to attract 
the American worker:




 I believe that when immigrants are illegal, they do more to 


 undercut the wages of native-born workers, because the 


 playing field isn't level and employers don't have to pay 


 them market wages.




. . . [T]here are jobs in industries like construction 


 that I think are more appealing to native-born workers, and 


 many native-born low-income men might be interested in more 


 of those jobs. . . . Absent the immigrants, the employer 


 might need to raise those wages and improve those conditions 


 of work to entice native-born workers into those jobs.


That is true. That is all I am saying. As we discuss the minimum 
wage--and I am confident somehow we will work our way through this, but 
there are some amendments and votes that need to be taken--it should be 
done only as part of a serious evaluation of what is happening to the 
wages of low-skilled workers and middle-class workers. If we do that 
and think it through, we will see we ought to reform the earned income 
tax credit so people can receive that benefit while they work. We will 
conclude we ought to create a savings program every American worker can 
put money into throughout their working career, from the first paycheck 
they get until the day of their retirement. It would transform the 
retirement years of those people. We have that in our capability.

As we craft an immigration policy, we cannot craft that policy in 
such a way that it only benefits corporate profits. It must be done in 
a way that considers the impact that is occurring on our own low-
skilled workers. If we do a good lawful system of immigration that is 
in harmony with our history of immigration in America but at the same 
time provides protection to the least of our American workers, we will 
have done something worthwhile.

Unfortunately, I have to say the bill that passed the Senate last 
year would have been a disaster. It would have increased legal 
immigration in this country, skewed mostly to low-skilled workers, by 
almost three times the current rate. How can that have done anything 
other than hurt our workers?

Those are some thoughts. I appreciate the opportunity of sharing 
them.

I ask unanimous consent that the pending amendment be set aside and 
that amendment No. 147, which I have offered, which deals with 
increased fines for employers who hire illegal immigrants, be called 
up. That fine currently is $250. I think that is too low. I ask that 
that be called up.