# RECOGNIZING THE NEED FOR DIPLOMATIC DIALOG WITH CARIBBEAN NATIONS
## `0512efaa6136fe18ae0905c8049370a5`
`Mr. RANGEL â€” 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. RANGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to enter into the Record an 
opinion editorial published in the CaribNews newspaper the week ending 
March 20, 2007 titled ''Caribbean-U.S. Summit In Washington: A Photo-OP 
or Meeting Of Substance, Only Time Will Tell.'' As well as, an article 
written by Tony Best, appearing the same week in the CaribNews paper, 
entitled ''Caribbean Leaders and President Bush to Meet; In Washington, 
In June, U.S.-Caribbean Relations, Economic Development, Trade To Be 
High On Agenda.'' Both articles comment on the Administration's sudden 
interest with the Caribbean nations in the Western Hemisphere.

The White House has invited the leaders of the Caribbean nations 
(CARICOM) to a dialog regarding strengthening relationships between 
these countries and the United States. I am glad to see the 
Administration is reaching out to our Western Hemisphere neighbors, 
since these relations have been neglected far too long, making the U.S. 
an increasingly isolated nation among Western Hemisphere states and 
placing CARICOM-U.S. relations at an all time low.

It is imperative that the United States find a way to pragmatically 
assess and be responsive to the social and economic challenges facing 
our neighbors in accordance with Washington's long-term political 
interests, since the region is often described as our ''Third border.'' 
CARICOM leaders have accepted Washington's invitation and are 
interested in addressing trade issues, as well as competitiveness and 
investment in mutually beneficial ways.

In addition, CARICOM leaders during their visit to Washington will be 
reaching out to the members of Congress most interested in and with the 
jurisdiction over the issues affecting the Caribbean and the members of 
the Diaspora here in the United States.

As we continue to strengthen our national economy and improve our 
standing in the international community it is important that we devote 
serious attention to strengthening U.S. relations throughout the 
Western Hemisphere.


Caribbean Leaders And President Bush To Meet In Washington In June, 

U.S.-Caribbean Relations, Economic Development, Trade To Be High On 
















 Agenda















 (By Tony Best)




 Caricom leaders are going to the White House in June to 


 meet with U.S. President George W. Bush.



 And the invitation list are to Presidents and Prime 


 Ministers, ranging from St. Vincent's Prime Minister, Dr. 


 Ralph Gonsalves, who is the current Chairman of Caricom, 


 Haiti's Rene Preval, Guyana's Bharrat Jagdeo, Jamaica's first 


 female leader, Portia Simpson Miller, and St. Lucia's Sir 


 John Compton, to Trinidad and Tobago's Patrick Manning, 


 Antigua's Baldwin Spencer, his counterpart in St. Kitts-


 Nevis, Dr. Denzil Douglas, and Grenada's Dr. Keith Mitchell, 


 not to mention Barbados' Owen Arthur, the Bahamas' Perry 


 Christie, Dominica's Roosevelt Skerrit and Suriname's Ronald 


 Venetiaan.





 In short, quite unlike the invitations, which the White 


 House sent out to a handful of Caribbean leaders a few years 


 ago to sit down with President Bush over breakfast, a glaring 


 attempt to snub those countries, which opposed the invasion 


 of Iraq, all of Caricom's heads of government are to be 


 invited this time around.



 Although President Bush has met with a few of the region's 


 leaders from time to time, the upcoming summit will be the 


 first of its kind in Washington with Caribbean Prime 


 Ministers and Presidents since Bush took office.



 It is being arranged at a time when the Bush Administration 


 is under fire throughout the Western Hemisphere for virtually 


 ignoring Caribbean and Latin American economic and social 


 issues.



 It is scheduled for June 21 when many of the Caribbean 


 leaders are due in Washington for the U.S. Conference on the 


 Caribbean. While the White House agenda has not been 


 finalized, diplomatic sources say trade, investment, economic 


 and social development and U.S. role in the Western 


 Hemisphere may be discussed.



 It is not yet known how many of the Prime Ministers and the 


 Presidents would attend the conference or accept the 


 invitation to the White House session.



 ''It's too early to indicate what will be discussed at the 


 conference but it is our expectation that most if not all of 


 the Prime Ministers and Presidents as well as the foreign 


 Ministers will be traveling to Washington for the 


 conference,'' Elsworth John, St. Vincent's Ambassador in 


 Washington and coordinator of the conference told the New 


 York Carib News.



 But Michael King, Barbados' Ambassador to the U.S., 


 pinpointed a few issues, which might be discussed during the 


 Caribbean conference.



 ''We are hoping that all 15 heads of government will attend 


 from our region,'' said King. ''The conference is going to 


 look primarily at three or four issues, mainly the 


 strengthening of the relationship between the U.S. and 


 Caricom with a view to addressing the priority areas for the 


 Caribbean's future growth and development. We will be looking 


 at such issues as trade, competitiveness and investment in 


 mutually beneficial and reinforcing ways. Obviously, we would 


 be looking at deepening and broadening the dialogue between 


 the Governments and peoples of Caricom and the United 


 States.''



 John said that when Caricom leaders met recently in his 


 country under the Chairmanship of Dr. Ralph Gonsalves, St. 


 Vincent's Prime Minister, they approved the broad outlines of 


 the conference and approved the summit with President Bush.



 ''The conference was discussed at the recent Caricom Heads 


 of Government Conference held in St. Vincent & the 


 Grenadines.



 The Heads of Government meeting signed off on the 


 conference and supported the program as it was structured,'' 


 he explained. ''The meeting with President Bush is scheduled 


 for the Thursday, the final day of the conference which 


 begins on June 19th and ends on the 21st. It will be at the 


 White House.''



 Dr. Gonsalves, current Chairman of Caricom, has already 


 urged the region's leaders to ''clear their calendars for 


 that particular time'' so they could participate in the 


 conference and the meeting with President Bush, said John.



 The conference will be part of the celebrations marking 


 Caribbean Heritage Month that is being observed across the 


 United States in June to underscore the contributions of 


 Caribbean immigrants and the countries themselves to 


 America's prosperity.



 After much prodding, President Bush last year signed into 


 law a Bill that designates June as Caribbean Heritage Month 


 and West Indians in such places as New York, Washington, 


 Miami, California, Boston, Philadelphia and Baltimore are 


 planning a variety of cultural, economic, religious and other 


 social events to draw attention to the region.



 ''Caribbean Heritage month is important to all of us,'' 


 said King.



 John put it differently.



 ''This conference comes at a time when the United States is 


 beginning to show a lot more interest in its relationship 


 with this Hemisphere,'' he said.



 ''This conference came out of a meeting between the U.S. 


 Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice, and the foreign 


 ministers from the Caribbean where it was decided that it 


 would be a good idea for the leaders from the Caribbean to 


 come to Washington to meet with the President in a summit and 


 the Foreign Ministers to meet with the Secretary of State.



 But the plans go beyond Caribbean and U.S. Government 


 officials sitting down and talking about political and 


 economic issues.



 ''We felt that it was an opportune time for us to have a 


 people to people connection, seeing that there are so many 


 people from the Caribbean in the Diaspora,'' John added. ''In 


 addition, we want to establish closer links between the 


 businesses, the private sector from the Caribbean and the 


 United States. What we are doing is to proceed on all of 


 those fronts in our preparations for the conference.''



 Hence, sessions on the Diaspora, the private sector and 


 culture and a meeting with key Congressional leaders, 


 including Congressman Charles Rangel, Chairman of the 


 powerful Ways and Means Committee.



 ''We are in the process of having consultations with the 


 State Department on exactly what the content of the 


 discussions will be,'' said John.



 The World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank and the 


 Organization of American States are also being consulted on 


 the plans for the different sessions.



 Mr. Bush is winding up a week long tour of Latin American 


 nations where he was met with demonstrations and criticisms 


 from thousands of citizens who oppose the Bush foreign 


 policy, especially the war in Iraq.



 Caribbean-U.S. Summit in Washington--A Photo-Op or Meeting of 










 Substance, Only Time Will Tell




 After six years of lost opportunities, the Bush 


 Administration has decided to open the White House doors to 


 all the leaders of the Caribbean whose countries form 


 Caricom. What a pity it has taken so long for the United 


 States Chief Executive, George Bush, to do what was right and 


 to come to terms with the realities of the Western Hemisphere 


 in general and the Caribbean in particular.



 The invitation to the Presidents and Prime Ministers to a 


 sit down meeting shouldn't simply be a photo opportunity but 


 a chance to open up a meaningful dialogue with countries that 


 have been principled allies of the United States for 


 centuries.



 The summit which is scheduled for June 21, the end of a 


 three day U.S. Conference on the Caribbean can be made into a 


 meaningful exercise with sessions, not simply at the White 


 House but on Capitol Hill, with the Congressional Black 


 Caucus and other lawmakers who have the Caribbean's interest 


 at heart. Meetings with the Diaspora and the private sector, 


 all with the goal of advancing the economic and social 


 development of the countries in the region can be useful to 


 the process of bringing people together and helping the 


 region to attain its goals. Although trade, investment, 


 immigration and broad areas of economic and social 


 development are expected to dominate the agenda, it's our 


 hope that the region would resist the temptation to put 30 


 items on an agenda for a series of short meetings. That has 


 prevented previous meetings from turning out to be productive 


 exchanges of views.



 How much better it could have been if the high-handedness 


 of Republicans in and out of the White House and the Congress 


 hadn't been a fact of life for the Caribbean. Only if the 


 Bush Administration and the Republicans in the House and 


 Senate had recognized the importance of treating small 


 countries with dignity and respect, instead of trying to make 


 them feel as if they were Lilliputians that should be 


 ignored.



 Presidents Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton thought it was 


 useful to travel to the Caribbean to exchange ideas and 


 discuss programs and policies with America's neighbor, but 


 not this Chief Executive.



 Indeed, Bush behaved in such an unfortunate manner by 


 seeking to snub those countries and their leaders who 


 disagreed with the invasion of Iraq and the resulting debacle 


 that he dissipated so much goodwill. For at a time when Bush 


 should have been making friends with his natural allies he 


 sought to punish many of them by declining to meet with 


 critics of his policy. That pettiness is unbecoming of the 


 most powerful nation in the world.



 Tony Blair, the British Prime Minister and Mr. Bush's 


 principal ally in Iraq had the good sense to schedule a 


 meeting in London, invited all of them for a session in 


 London, so they could talk about the way forward, 


 economically and socially for the Caribbean.



 That's why Caribbean-U.K. relations are so warm.



 The conference and the summit offer Bush and the Caricom 


 heads a chance to address questions of common concern such as 


 Washington's future role in efforts to strengthen economic 


 and trade links within Caricom itself and in the Hemisphere 


 as a whole.



 For their part, the Prime Ministers and Presidents can send 


 a strong message to Congress that the unresolved immigration 


 mess, including the deportation of all criminal aliens, 


 regardless of their individual histories, was damaging the 


 Caribbean's social system.



 It's important that the dialogue in Washington reaches out 


 to the Diaspora across the United States. With the exception 


 of Trinidad and Tobago, remittances and other forms of 


 assistance from the Caribbean immigrants abroad are a vital 


 source of foreign exchange, so much so that in Jamaica's case 


 they top the list while in others they amount to number two 


 or three. Caricom has paid lip service to the Diaspora, with 


 officials making periodic forays into North America and 


 England but avoiding the creation of any permanent method of 


 communication and follow-up to initiatives that are talked 


 about but allowed to fall by the wayside.



 If that problem isn't addressed the conference during 


 Heritage Month would end up as yet another exercise in 


 futility.



 In the past, town meetings have been held, presentations by 


 leaders were scheduled and made but afterwards, nothing 


 happened.



 For instance, cricket World Cup has started and the 


 promised collaboration with U.S.-based Caribbean firms and 


 other interests have not materialized.



 A somewhat similar thing is happening with the Caribbean 


 Single Market and Economy. Caricom as an institution should 


 use this conference to put meaningful and permanent links and 


 establish effectively relationships with the communities that 


 pump more than $2 billion in foreign exchange annually into 


 the economies back home.



