# None
## `0542e03b3013789064b75beac8102757`
`Mr. BYRD â€” 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, tomorrow we mark the fifth anniversary of 
the now infamous ''Mission Accomplished'' speech which was delivered by 
President Bush on the deck of the USS Abraham Lincoln on May 1, 2003.

Five years ago, I took issue with the President's choreographed 
political theatrics because I believed then that our military forces 
deserved to be treated with respect and dignity, and not used as stage 
props to embellish a Presidential speech.

The President's declaration of ''Mission Accomplished'' and the ''end 
of major combat operations'' proved wildly premature and dangerously 
naive. The complete lack of foresight and planning by the President for 
what lay ahead became tragically clear in short order. Our Nation 
continues to pay the price every single day. More than 97 percent of 
the more than 4,000 Americans killed in Iraq lost their lives after


the President's flashy declaration of victory.

Years from now, I expect that history books will feature the sorry 
''Mission Accomplished'' episode as the epitome of this 
administration's reckless and arrogant foreign policy, which has reaped 
disastrous consequences for our Nation and the world. We have seen a 
President who is eager to use American troops for a political backdrop, 
yet who is seemingly indifferent when it comes to providing those same 
American troops with the equipment they need, quality health care, or a 
real plan for ending this terrible war.

President Bush has said that history will judge him on his decision 
to go to war in Iraq. I say that history is already delivering its 
verdict. It is evident in the strains of the long and multiple 
deployments that are wearing down our mighty military, and in the 
sufferings of the American people as they bury their fallen heroes. It 
is evident in the fear and distrust with which the rest of the world 
views us, and in the instability wracking the Middle East, Iraq, and 
Afghanistan as a result of the Bush policies.

President Bush has recklessly squandered more than 200 years of 
American leadership, American good will, and prosperity. If that is 
what he was aiming for when he took office, then he can claim ''Mission 
Accomplished.'' That is his legacy. As we write the next chapter in our 
Nation's history, let us commit to building a new legacy that restores 
the promise of America, both at home and around the world.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.