# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `056f1dc730a1d92623c82e18bc34e17c`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 3 October 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. The recognition of the service of 
contractors such as Blackwater is a bipartisan recognition. For those 
of us who have traveled to Afghanistan and Iraq and a number of places 
around the world, we recognize the importance of contractors. So this 
is not an indictment overall of those who serve as asked by the United 
States of America. It is an indictment of the Department of Defense in 
the way these contracts are issued. It is an indictment of the incident 
that allegedly occurred where those Blackwater employees opened fire, 
killing 11 civilians, and each of the four vehicles opened their 
windows and began to blast at what appeared to be innocent civilians, 
even killing a little boy.

Yes, it did seem like hell. But, frankly, we do understand that their 
role is important. This legislation is fair. It has the parameters of 
helping companies like Blackwater to have order in the midst of, 
sometimes, disorder.

The legislation requires a report by the DOJ Inspector on Contractor 
Abuses Overseas and also requires the Inspector General of the Justice 
Department to submit a report to Congress. We should not be left out. 
We should be aware of what is going on, primarily because the actions 
of contractors impact not only the soldiers left behind, who then have 
to clean up what they have done, but also the diplomacy of the United 
States of America.

There is simply no excuse for the de facto legal immunity that our 
government has permitted for tens of thousands of armed private 
individuals working on our country's behalf in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Our soldiers are court-martialed, and our soldiers are sometimes the 
unpleasant beneficiaries of the actions of U.S. contractors.

The U.S. Government has a responsibility to hold the individuals 
carrying out its work to the highest standards of conduct and to ensure 
that these individuals protect human life and uphold the law. They have 
protected our diplomats. To that we say thank you. This responsibility 
does not disappear simply because such individuals are contractors 
instead of government employees. This legislation is especially timely 
in light of the new report by the Oversight and Government Reform 
Committee which documents numerous incidents of wrongdoing by 
Blackwater contractors in Iraq. As we have noted, Blackwater does good 
work. But incidents that have caused havoc need to be addressed. It can 
be addressed through this legislation.

Then I would simply like to say, as The Washington Post reported, 
Blackwater security contractors in Iraq have been involved in at least 
195 escalation of force incidents since early 2005, including several 
previously unreported killings of Iraqi civilians.

My friends, this goes over all contractors. I hope that we will move 
forward to ensure that the DoD process is fair and that minority 
contractors can be involved. But this is a very important first step, 
and I thank the distinguished chairman of the committee for his great 
leadership on these many issues that come before our committee.

This is an important first step, because there are many contractors 
when you go to Iraq and Afghanistan, and many of them are contractors 
of the Department of Defense. There really is no tallying of who they 
are and what they are doing. In this instance, people are dying. And as 
Blackwater has often said, they are just defending their packages. 
Those packages are diplomats. We want them to defend them, but we would 
suggest that it is an important response to address how they do it.

The Washington Post article went on to state that according to the 
State Department, in one of the killings, Blackwater personnel tried to 
cover up what had occurred and provide a false report.

This will stop that. The next step will be to encourage the 
utilization of minority contractors never heard of by the Department of 
Defense. This is a clean way to clean up our backyard and to protect 
all of those who need to be protected. I ask my colleagues to support 
this legislation.

Madam Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 2740, the ''Holding 
Security Contractors in War Zones Overseas Accountable Act'' (MEJA 
Expansion and Enforcement Act). This legislation is intended to ensure 
that all private security contractors in war zones overseas will be 
held accountable for criminal offenses committed. Under current law, 
only those contractors who are on contract with the Department


of Defense are indisputably subject to the jurisdiction of the federal 
courts. This legislation remedies that and other problems.

Madam Chairman, H.R. 2740 ensures that all U.S. security contractors 
in war zones overseas are held accountable. It does this by closing a 
loophole in current law in order to ensure that all U.S. private 
security contractors in war zones overseas are held accountable for 
criminal behavior. It gives U.S. federal courts jurisdiction over the 
actions by contractors working for any U.S. government agency in areas 
of foreign countries where U.S. military forces are conducting combat 
operations.

Specifically, the measure subjects employees of all such contractors 
to the same jurisdiction established by the Military Extraterritorial 
Jurisdiction Act (MEJA), which currently only covers members of the 
armed forces, civilian federal employees, and contractors who are on 
contract with the Department of Defense.

Another important feature of the legislation is the designation of 
the Justice Department as the lead agency in investigating contractor 
behavior. H.R. 2740 creates an FBI ''theater investigative unit'' for 
each theater of operations with which contracted employees are 
involved, to investigate any allegations of criminal misconduct by 
contractors, including reports of fatalities from the use of force by 
contractors. The unit would then refer cases that warrant further 
action to the Attorney General.

Additionally, the legislation requires a report by the DOJ Inspector 
General on contractor abuses overseas. The bill also requires the 
Inspector General of the Justice Department to submit a report to 
Congress regarding the identification and prosecution of alleged 
contractor abuses overseas. This requirement is intended to address the 
Justice Department's apparent failure to aggressively investigate and 
prosecute crimes committed by contractors over which the department 
already has jurisdiction (such as contractors working for the 
Department of Defense.)

Madam Chairman, there simply is no excuse for the de facto legal 
immunity that our government has permitted for tens of thousands of 
armed private individuals working on our country's behalf in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. The U.S. government has a responsibility to hold the 
individuals carrying out its work to the highest standards of conduct, 
and to ensure that these individuals protect human life and uphold the 
law. This responsibility does not disappear simply because such 
individuals are contractors instead of government employees.

Madam Chairman, this legislation is especially timely in light of the 
new report by the Oversight and Government Reform Committee which 
documents numerous incidents of wrongdoing by Blackwater contractors in 
Iraq. On September 16, Blackwater security contractors in Baghdad were 
involved in a shooting incident in which 11 Iraqi civilians were killed 
and many others injured. This incident is now under investigation. In 
addition, on October 1, the Oversight and Government Reform Committee 
released a report on the behavior of Blackwater contractors in Iraq 
which disclosed damaging new information. As the Washington Post (10/2/
07) reported:




 Blackwater security contractors in Iraq have been involved 


 in at least 195 'escalation of force' incidents since early 


 2005, including several previously unreported killings of 


 Iraqi civilians . . .


The Washington Post article went on to state that according to a 
State Department document, ''in one of the killings Blackwater 
personnel tried to cover up what had occurred and provided a false 
report. In another case, the firm accused its own personnel of lying 
about the event. The State Department made little effort to hold 
Blackwater personnel accountable beyond pressing the company to pay 
financial compensation to the families of the dead.''

Madam Chairman, the misconduct of military contractors working in 
Iraq, Afghanistan, and other foreign countries reflects poorly upon the 
United States and frequently is erroneously attributed by the people of 
the host country to our troops. As you can imagine, such misdirected 
anger and inflamed passion can lead them to take retaliatory actions 
which could imperil the safety of our troops. In my view, this is 
reason alone to support the bill, which I do strongly. I urge all my 
colleagues to join me in closing a loophole and ensure that all U.S. 
security contractors in war zones overseas can be held accountable for 
any criminal acts they commit overseas.