# PETRODOLLARS AND THE IRAQ WAR
## `05b0f7b0e5b24d9d06365ff34ce91ed4`
`Ms. KAPTUR â€” 19 March 2007`

---


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, the Wall Street Journal reported last week 
what most Americans may not realize, that for the first time in 
history, our U.S. military is now guarding the major Iraqi oil pipeline 
that leads to its major refinery in Bayji. Yes, our brave soldiers from 
the 82nd Airborne are now maintaining around-the-clock presence at 
Iraq's largest oil pipeline and refinery to fight the corruption, 
smuggling and sabotage that characterize Iraq's oil industry, its 
premier industry.

The article talks about the flourishing market in stolen Iraqi oil. 
It says U.S. military officials estimate that as much as 70 percent of 
the fuel processed at the plant is lost to the black market, an amount 
valued at more than $2 billion. Iraq's oil reserves may be the largest 
in the world. Future access to them is now being determined by a group 
of people we generally don't see on the evening news.

Do you know them? It's important to figure out who those people are 
and who exactly is now involved in writing Iraq's hydrocarbon law. How 
transparent are these oil deliberations?

Indeed, it is amazing how little we hear about them, as trillions of 
dollars are at stake. Meanwhile, oil smuggling has earned lots of shady 
characters hundreds of millions of dollars since the beginning of the 
war. Why did we let this go on? Until now, we can catch Saddam Hussein 
in the spider hole, and yet somehow we could not figure out who is 
smuggling Iraqi oil?

Americans deserve answers to so many questions. Who has been earning 
the money from the oil smuggling? Which global oil companies will 
benefit once the U.S. leaves Iraq? What percent of oil resources in 
Iraq will be left for the Iraqi people?

Traveling to Iraq and Kuwait a few weeks ago, I had the chance to 
witness how technology and power systems transformed endless deserts 
into oil supply lines. It is an awesome sight. Yet I couldn't help but 
ask, what is America doing in these deserts? Who does our oil addiction 
benefit? How have we let ourselves become tied to oil dictatorships? 
Why do we pay nearly $400 billion a year to import petroleum rather 
than become energy-independent ourselves here at home?

Our able colleague, Congressman Bill Delahunt of Massachusetts, gave 
me a book last week, and I looked on page 96. This is called ''The 
Price of Loyalty,'' by Ron Suskind. It explains how Donald Rumsfeld 
used our Defense Intelligence Agency to map Iraq's oil fields and lists 
companies that might be interested in leveraging the precious asset 
long before the Iraqi war was declared.

Judicial Watch obtained Mr. Rumsfeld's map through a Freedom of 
Information request because Mr. Rumsfeld and Paul Wolfowitz would not 
share it voluntarily. Imagine that. Our taxpayers footed the bill for 
this map to benefit private firms.

The book attests Rumsfeld and his cohorts in the Bush administration 
were not concerned with legitimate reasons to go to war; they only 
concerned themselves with how and how quickly to penetrate Iraq's oil 
fields. Mr. Wolfowitz had written as early as 1999 that the United 
States should be committed, should be prepared to commit ground forces 
to protect a sanctuary in southern Iraq where the opposition could 
safely mobilize. As we pay dearly for this violent war, and our 
soldiers die in Iraq, just coincidentally we have to remember the 
world's largest untapped oil reserves are in Iraq.

Most other nations in the Middle East have guarded their oil reserves 
as national treasures, but I will tell you what: Halliburton, 
ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips, ChevronTexaco and foreign companies like 
Total, Royal Dutch Shell and British Petroleum have been identified by 
reporters like Antonia Juhasz, who said last week in the New York 
Times, these oil companies would not have to invest their earnings in 
the Iraqi economy, partner with Iraqi companies, hire Iraqi workers or 
share their new technologies. In fact, she says, only 13 of the 80 oil 
wells, oil fields in Iraq would be for the Iraqi people. The other ones 
are being bargained away as the hydrocarbon law is written. Why do we 
hear so little about this on our evening news?

John Perkins, in his book ''Confessions of an Economic Hit Man,'' 
talks about how Saudi oil money through petrodollars has been 
reinvested in our economy, holding up so many of our equities and 
certainly our U.S. Treasury securities. Why can't America become 
energy-independent at home? Why do we have to be dependent to the 20th 
century view of dependency on foreign oil?

''Almost immediately after the [1973 oil] embargo ended,'' Perkins 
writes, ''Washington began negotiating with the Saudis, offering them 
technical support, military hardware and training and an opportunity to 
bring their nation into the twentieth century, in exchange for 
petrodollars and, most importantly, assurances that there would never 
be another oil embargo.'' Congress did not negotiate this--the overall 
management and fiscal responsibility lay with the Department of the 
Treasury, and according to the book, the ensuing agreement, which was 
negotiated in intense secrecy, ''fortif[ied] the concept of mutual 
interdependence.'' The very goal of this agreement was to ''find ways 
that would assure that a large portion of petrodollars found their way 
back to the United States'' so that ''Saudi Arabia would be


drawn in, its economy would become increasingly intertwined with and 
dependent upon ours'' and, of course, we on them. It is a ridden 
economy.

Is this the America you want? Do you want U.S. soldiers risking their 
lives guarding Iraqi oil? I want an America free of counterproductive 
foreign entanglements. I want an America free of support for 
dictatorships, no matter how tempting their treasures. I want an 
America free of foreign oil. I want to invest our dollars here at home 
in energy independence--in solar, wind, hydrogen, clean coal, new 
turbine systems, fuel cells and so much more.

I think most Americans, if they understood the extent to which we are 
hurting ourselves, would want the same. Some global interests are 
getting so filthy rich year after year, that they would risk a free 
America for the sake of their bloodied oil profits. It's worth changing 
how we do business in order to regain our freedom.






[From the Wall Street Journal Europe, Mar. 15, 2007]










 Iraq's Oil Smugglers Are Targeted













 (By Yochi J. Dreazen)




 Bayji, Iraq--Adding another facet to Washington's new 


 pacification plan for Iraq, U.S. and Iraqi forces have 


 launched an aggressive campaign to curb the oil smuggling 


 that is destabilizing the fragile Baghdad government and 


 helping to fund insurgents.



 In concert with stepped-up military and reconstruction 


 initiatives across Iraq, U.S. troops for the first time are 


 maintaining a round-the-clock presence at the sprawling oil 


 refinery here, Iraq's largest. Soldiers from the Army's 82nd 


 Airborne Division are cracking down on illegal gas stations, 


 arresting refinery workers suspected of corruption and using 


 sophisticated data-sifting methods to identify which senior 


 Iraqi officials might have ties to black-market oil rings.



 The Iraqi government, meanwhile, has begun what it calls 


 Operation Honest Hands, which puts the entire refinery under 


 Iraqi military control. Iraqi Army soldiers are physically 


 monitoring each of the facility's pumps and entrances, 


 assuming many of the responsibilities previously held by a 


 paramilitary security force employed by the Oil Ministry that 


 was widely considered corrupt and ineffectual. Iraqi troops 


 are also escorting many convoys of fuel trucks from the 


 refinery to destinations around the country.



 The move represents another course change for the 


 administration of U.S. President George W. Bush as it 


 struggles to craft a new approach for stabilizing Iraq. U.S. 


 and Iraqi officials have long been aware of the flourishing 


 market in stolen Iraqi oil but largely turned a blind eye 


 because Washington feared that stationing American soldiers 


 in major refineries would spark a nationalist backlash and 


 renew accusations that the U.S. invaded Iraq for its oil. The 


 Iraqi government, meanwhile, felt its modest security 


 resources were better used directly fighting insurgents.



 But officials from both governments have concluded recently 


 that oil smuggling had become too big a problem to ignore any 


 longer. The loss of so much output to the black market is 


 sharply reducing the Iraqi government's main source of 


 revenue: About 94% of Iraq's $32 billion budget last year 


 came from oil revenue. The stolen oil also gives Iraq's 


 insurgent groups a ready source of income, helping to 


 perpetuate the country's civil war.



 ''Disrupting the insurgent funding is our main job,'' said 


 30-year-old Capt. Kwenton Kuhlman, who is leading the 


 antismuggling operation at the Bayji refinery. ''I'm under no 


 illusions--we can't stop it. It's too big. But we can try to 


 disrupt it.''



 Iraq produces some 2 million barrels of oil a day, but U.S. 


 and Iraqi officials believe the figure could rise as high as 


 5 million barrels a day with improved security and new 


 infrastructure.



 Former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein helped create the 


 black market in oil in response to economic sanctions imposed 


 in the wake of the 1990-91 Persian Gulf War. Mr. Hussein used 


 smuggling, as well as kickbacks on oil sold legitimately 


 through the United Nations' oil-for-food program, to generate 


 cash for his regime and to reward allies at home and abroad.



 The stepped-up fight against smuggling has no guarantee of 


 success--and risks triggering more political and economic 


 turmoil. Senior Iraqi officials regularly pressure the 


 Americans to call off specific investigations or release 


 individuals detained for suspected involvement in the black 


 market, feeding Washington's suspicions that oil-related 


 corruption extends deep into the government.



 The enormity of the task facing the soldiers from the 82nd 


 Airborne was evident on recent visits, and underscores the 


 broader challenge Americans face in turning more security 


 over to their Iraqi counterparts. Several tanker drivers said 


 Iraqi soldiers at the plant had already begun asking for 


 bribes. The drivers also said they don't want to be escorted 


 by Iraqi troops for fear of attracting insurgent attacks. ''I 


 want coalition forces to guard this place, not the Iraqi 


 Army,'' driver Suhaib Adil Kareem said. ''The Iraqis don't 


 care about the law.''



 Widespread oil smuggling siphons off as much as $5 billion 


 per year. At the Bayji refinery--one of three in the country 


 [U.S. military officials estimate that as much as 70% of the 


 fuel processed at the plant is lost to the black market, an 


 amount valued at more than $2 billion per year.]



 Iraq's parliament will soon debate a landmark petroleum law 


 that would clear the way for direct foreign investment in the 


 battered oil sector and set out rough guidelines for 


 distributing oil revenue among Iraq's 18 provinces. But U.S. 


 and Iraqi officials warn the new law will have little 


 substantive impact unless the smuggling is brought under 


 control.



 The endemic oil-sector corruption is a financial boon to 


 insurgent operations. A classified U.S. government report in 


 November estimated Iraqi militants earn $25 million to $100 


 million every year by stealing tankers full of fuel, 


 smuggling oil to other countries, carrying out kidnappings 


 for ransom, and charging protection money from truckers and 


 gas station owners.



 ''The fuel that is stolen comes back as bombs, mortar 


 shells and Katyusha rockets,'' said Hamad Hamoud al-Shakti, 


 the governor of the Salahaddin province, home to the Bayji 


 refinery.



 The black market is fueled by three factors. Baghdad 


 heavily subsidizes gasoline and other oil products, and the 


 resulting low prices mean they can be resold at enormous 


 profit in neighboring countries. The government also doesn't 


 verify that gas-station owners--who are entitled to receive 


 100,000 liters of fuel per week--sell to retail customers 


 instead of on the black market.



 The biggest issue, though, is pervasive corruption. U.S. 


 and Iraqi officials say refinery workers routinely allow 


 tankers to pick up fuel without any paperwork, which makes it 


 easy to sell off the books. Police officers demand bribes of 


 as much as $1,000 to let tankers pass through checkpoints or 


 for ''protection'' along routes, the officials say. And some 


 government officials work directly with smugglers or secretly 


 own gas stations and fuel trucks, giving them a share of 


 money earned through illicit sales, U.S. officials say.



 ''You're talking about corruption at basically every 


 level,'' says Maj. Curtis Buzzard, the Harvard-educated 


 executive officer of the brigade conducting the interdiction 


 push. ''And it's deeply entrenched.''



 As part of the campaign, the U.S. in coming months will 


 spend more than $12 million to install video cameras to 


 monitor the refinery's pumps and new digital scales to weigh 


 trucks, making it easier to see if truckers are carrying more 


 fuel than they were meant to receive. The money will also be 


 used to build parking lots designed to protect drivers from 


 extortion and insurgent attack.



 Over the past few months, U.S. and Iraqi forces already 


 have quietly begun arresting officials suspected of playing 


 central roles in black-market rings. As far back as 


 September, Iraqi forces arrested Ibrahim Muslit, who ran the 


 Bayji refinery's oil-distribution operation, after he 


 allegedly allowed 33 tankers in a single day to receive fuel 


 without any paperwork. In January, U.S. troops arrested Ahmed 


 Ibrahim Hamad, a senior transportation official at the 


 refinery, after he allegedly tried to help smuggle out seven 


 tankers of heavy-fuel oil. Both men are in custody and 


 unavailable for comment.



 Now, U.S. commanders say they are conducting investigations 


 of senior officials from the Bayji city council, the local 


 police force and the provincial and national governments. The 


 American officers say they have made about 40 arrests since 


 the crackdown began in earnest in early February, when the 


 Iraqis formally joined the campaign, and they hope to make 


 additional arrests in coming weeks.



 During a surprise inspection of the refinery's gasoline and 


 diesel pumps one afternoon, Sgt. Stephen Truesdale noticed 


 that the analog display on one of the machines showed it had 


 pumped 4,000 liters more than the facility's handwritten 


 records indicated.



 ''He helped steal 4,000 liters of gas,'' Sgt. Truesdale, a 


 former North Carolina police officer, said of the heavy-set 


 Iraqi man who had been manning the pump. ''The pumps don't 


 lie.''



 The refinery worker insisted he was innocent, but Capt. 


 Kuhlman, the brigade leader, told his men they had enough 


 evidence to arrest him.



 On the way back to their base, the U.S. forces saw a large 


 fuel truck parked on the side of the road, surrounded by 


 pickup trucks carrying overflowing oil barrels. The 18 Iraqis 


 at the site freely admitted they had purchased the fuel from 


 a tanker driver who had left the refinery a short time 


 earlier. The men said they made such purchases several times 


 a week and resold the oil to factory owners and other small 


 businesses in neighboring towns.



 The American forces ordered the Iraqis to drive their 


 pickups back to the refinery, where the men were searched, 


 photographed and escorted onto a pair of open-backed military 


 vehicles for transport to holding cells at the U.S. 


 installation.



 The following day, Capt. Kuhlman told a room full of 


 refinery officials and trucking-company executives about the 


 arrests. Shakir Hamid, a businessman who said his partner had 


 been kidnapped from the refinery months earlier, shook his 


 head.



 ''In Saddam's time, oil smugglers were hung,'' he said.



 ''And I release them after two days,'' Capt. Kuhlman 


 replied, shrugging his shoulders. ''But it's a start.''