# None
## `05d13c4a0663d34309136d4d82042474`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. We know what we hope will happen, and there are some 
things we can predict that will happen.

What do we know? We know that Iraq is in chaos. We know that the 
Iraqi President, or Prime Minister more accurately, has said the only 
way to end the bloodletting of innocents in Iraq is if the Iraqi 
leaders reach a political settlement. We know that. We know there is no 
military solution in Iraq. We know there is only a political solution 
and that the violence cannot end unless Iraqi leaders reach a political 
settlement.

I think those are consensus points. Those are things we know. We know 
how many of our troops have been killed and how many are killed every


month and how many are wounded and come home. We know those things.

Then the question is: Since there is no military solution, there is 
only a political solution--that is the only hope of succeeding in 
Iraq--how do you promote a political settlement in Iraq? Is the current 
course we are on succeeding or do we need to change the course?

We all have the same goal. We all want to maximize the chances of 
success in Iraq. If you believe we are succeeding in Iraq now, then you 
vote to stay the course. If you believe after all these years and all 
these deaths and all these wounded and all these expenditures, now over 
$10 billion a month, that we need to change course because we are not 
succeeding in Iraq, you have to ask yourself: How do we change course? 
How do we change what is going on in Iraq?

So those are the things that we, each of us, I think in our own 
conscience, are trying to figure what is the best way to maximize the 
chances of success in Iraq. I believe the only hope in getting the 
Iraqi leaders to reach the political settlement, which everybody agrees 
is the only hope, is to force them to accept responsibility for their 
own nation, to work out the political differences on revenue-sharing, 
on elections, on debaathification amendments, and on constitutional 
changes.

They have been dithering for years. They made a promise to their 
people, to the American people, and to the world last year. It is on 
their Web site, 16 of their benchmarks--not ours, their benchmarks. 
They have not carried out the commitments they have made. There was a 
timetable attached to those benchmarks. I put that timetable in the 
Record. It was part of a letter that Secretary Rice sent to me.


So we have a situation--