# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `064db0ca2fa7750fda87101e448574de`
`Mr. LANGEVIN â€” 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in reluctant opposition to the 
supplemental spending measure before us. Though I originally voted 
against giving the President authority to invade Iraq in October 2002, 
I supported every supplemental appropriations bill since then because I 
believed that, irrespective of how we might feel about our operations 
in Iraq, we must stand together in support of our troops in the field. 
Those spending bills provided much-needed body armor, up-armored 
Humvees and lED jammers and helped our men and women and uniform as 
they undertook challenging and often unconventional missions.

However, in the last 4 years, the situation on the ground in Iraq has 
changed, and we must adapt our strategy accordingly. We can no longer 
allow our military to referee what has become a civil war. The 
underlying causes of violence are now primarily sectarian in nature and 
can only be resolved by the Iraqis--a conclusion that nearly all 
foreign security experts accept. Consequently, we need a new approach 
that will support the Iraqi political process to end sectarian 
divisions in Iraq, help rebuild the economy and infrastructure, and 
promote maximum diplomatic efforts to bring an end to the violence. We 
can meet these goals by redeploying our troops out of Iraq--allowing a 
limited U.S. military presence solely for training Iraqi Security 
Forces, protecting our citizens and interests and hunting down al Qaeda 
and combating terrorism.

Earlier this year, the Democratic-led Congress passed a supplemental 
spending bill that would have demanded accountability of the Bush 
Administration and set the groundwork for bringing our troops home. 
Despite Americans' strong dissatisfaction with his handling of the war, 
President Bush vetoed that measure. I am deeply disappointed with that 
decision and with his subsequent unwillingness to work with 
congressional leadership on a true compromise that funds the needs of 
our troops while pursuing a new strategy for success in Iraq. The bill 
before us today does require that the President certify that Iraq is 
making progress in attaining certain benchmarks--a provision that will 
help Congress conduct greater oversight. However, it falls short of the 
accountability requirements in the earlier House-passed measure and 
gives the President far too much authority to continue prosecuting a 
war that has been mismanaged from the start by the civilian leadership. 
Despite my past support of supplemental spending bills, I simply cannot 
vote for the measure before us today. If we do not shift our mission in 
Iraq from a military approach to a comprehensive diplomatic and 
economic one, we run the serious risk of damaging the readiness of our 
military, doing long-term harm to our armed forces and endangering our 
national security. I will vote today to support our troops, and the 
best way we can do that is by getting them out of a civil war and 
bringing them home.