# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES REGARDING THE  TERRORIST ATTACKS LAUNCHED AGAINST THE UNITED STATES ON SEPTEMBER 11,
## `06c5b9a93ab4989985f1ece7c29af192`
`Mr. SHAYS â€” 11 September 2008`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Madam Speaker, 9/11 was a wake-up call from hell. We all 
know how we reacted to it, but the weeks that followed for those of us 
in the greater New York area had special meaning. It was a very 
poignant time.

I think of the family of Joe Coppo, whose son Joseph, at the time a 
college student, said goodbye to him at a service in New Canaan. He 
talked about his dad and said, ''Dad, you wanted me to become an adult. 
You taught me so many things.'' This is a young man who is now a marine 
and served in Iraq. He told us of all the things that his dad wanted 
him to learn. And then he said, ''Dad, I have learned from you. Don't 
worry, I'm an adult now.'' And then looking at his mom he said, ''I'll 
be there to take care of mom.''

The next week in the same church, Frank Fetchet, in talking about his 
son Brad and all the things he wanted him to learn, said, ''Son, I 
learned far more from you than I learned from me.''

I think of a service in Easton, at a small New England church that 
was built hundreds of years ago and was so small that most people 
couldn't fit in. It was a beautiful sunny day, and most of the 
congregation was outside. They were talking about a young father, a 
young mother, and a precious 3-year-old child who were on the plane 
that brought down the second Twin Towers.

They talk about Peter Hanson, his wife Sue Kim, and their daughter 
Christine. They talked about the father and the mother, and then they 
had the nursery school teachers where their 3-year-old child attended 
school, speak about precious Christine. They ended by asking us to hold 
hands and sing Christine's favorite song, ''The Barney Song.''

When I left, Peter's parents wanted to see me and said, ''This can't 
be about anger and hate.'' They were sweetly telling me about what it 
couldn't be, and I was thinking I needed to comfort them.

On this day, September 11th, I think of a family, Neal and Jean 
Coleman, and with their only remaining son, who the next day were 
saying goodbye to their two sons who perished, Scott and Keith. It was 
a candlelight vigil, and they were talking about their beautiful young 
sons who had so much to live for. When the service was over, the 
parents insisted on seeing me. They said to me the same thing, the 
exact same thing, the Hansons had said ''This can't be about anger and 
hate.''

I think about Beverly Eckert, who met her husband years ago in junior 
high school, Sean Rooney. She called him on the phone because she 
thought he might be in one of the Twin Towers, and he was. He told her, 
''Honey, I can't get out of the building.'' And she said, ''Go 
upstairs. Go to the top and you get to the observation floor and be 
rescued.'' So she spoke to him as he went to the top floor but the door 
was locked. She spoke to her husband for more than a half an hour 
knowing it was the last time they would ever speak, and said goodbye to 
him as the building collapsed.

Well, we know it can't be about anger and hate, but it is a wake-up 
call. There is more than one inconvenient truth that confronts us. The 
one the
9/11 Commission talks about, Islamic terrorists, who would do us harm 
at home and abroad.

We are confronting Islamic terrorists in Iraq and in Afghanistan, in 
Europe, in Asia, in North and South America. We are confronting them 
not out of anger and hate, but with the steely resolve that Americans 
are known for.

God bless the 9/11 families. God bless those who tried to save them. 
God bless all who live in this great country. We will prevail!