# ECONOMIC OBSERVATIONS BY THE 43 MEMBER STRONG, FISCALLY CONSERVATIVE  DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `06e7555d8aaaa1d2c383577ad6fccd7e`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. Speaker, I am proud today to be joined by my 
colleagues of the Blue Dog Coalition to speak about our Nation's 
problems.

Mr. Ross brought up the U.S. national debt now being $8.8 trillion, 
knocking on the door of $9 trillion. I remember the very first day I 
came to Congress where the actual figure was $7.54 trillion. Not even 
2/1/2/ years ago, each American's share of the national debt was 
$26,000 at that time. What a shame. Over $3,000 more in 2 years.

Well, I am proud to join my fellow Blue Dogs today to talk about 
accountability in government and the gross negligence for taxpayer 
dollars in Washington. The Blue Dogs have been fighting for greater 
accountability in Washington for over 10 years. We have argued for a 
return to a PAYGO system or a balanced budget. We offered a 12-step 
reform plan to cure our Nation's addiction to deficit spending. We have 
argued that all earmarks should require written justification from a 
Member of Congress before being considered.

I am proud that our current leadership has taken into account what 
the Blue Dogs are saying. The Blue Dogs advocate accountability. Let's 
consider the facts. In 2004, the Federal Government spent $25 billion 
that it cannot account for. In that same year, only 6 of 63 Pentagon 
departments were able to produce a clean audit. For 2005, the GAO 
reports that 19 of the 24 Federal agencies can't produce a clean audit 
or fully explain how they spend taxpayer dollars.

In March of 2005, the Veterans Affairs inspector general issued a 
report calling for the agency's information systems and securities to 
be upgraded. No action was taken. And since that time, the personal 
information of millions of our Nation's veterans has been stolen.

Several of our Federal agencies received serious red-flag disclaimers 
on their 2005 financial statements, including the Office of the 
Inspector General for the Department of Defense who wrote, ''We are 
unable to give an opinion on the fiscal year 2005 DOD financial 
statements because of the limitations on the scope of our work. Thus, 
the financial statements may be unreliable. Therefore, we are unable to 
express and we do not express an opinion on the DOD's financial 
statements.''

Mr. Speaker, the American public deserves the honest truth. The 
Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security 
wrote, ''Unfortunately, the department made little or no progress to 
improve its financial reporting during fiscal year 2005. KPMG was 
unable to provide an opinion on the department's balance sheet.''

The inspector general for NASA in its 2005 financial report in the 
enclosed report from independent auditors, Ernest & Young, disclaimed 
an opinion on NASA's financial statement for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2005. The disclaimer resulted from NASA's inability to 
provide an auditable financial statement and sufficient evidence to 
support financial statements throughout the fiscal year and at year 
end.

Federal agencies are treating the taxpayer dollars that fund them 
like a joke, and the administration is incapable of lifting a finger to 
manage them effectively.

I believe we need strong enforcement measures in Congress and the 
Federal Government to make it more accountable for taxpayer dollars. We 
must ensure that Congress has the tools to hold Federal agencies 
responsible for their use of taxpayer dollars.

Mr. Speaker, American taxpayers deserve to know how Congress and this 
administration are spending their money.

I am proud once again to join my Blue Dog colleagues to demand more 
fiscal accountability in Iraq. The Blue Dogs have a plan for fiscal 
accountability in Iraq. Our plan calls for transparency on how war 
funds are being utilized. It creates a commission to investigate how 
contracts are awarded, and it stops the use of emergency supplementals 
to fund this war. This is the first administration, Mr. Speaker, that 
has used emergency supplementals to fund a war year after year after 
year.

The Blue Dogs also call for American resources to improve Iraq's 
ability to police themselves. The Blue Dog legislation addresses the 
glaring lack of oversight and accountability in Iraq. We make sure that 
taxpayer dollars are accounted for. Government reports have documented 
waste, fraud and abuse in Iraq. I think it is time to stop that waste. 
Congressional oversight is desperately needed. The administration must 
be held accountable for how reconstruction funds are being utilized.

The Blue Dog proposals are commonsense proposals. They ensure 
transparency and accountability. We have already spent $437 billion in 
Iraq, according to the Congressional Research Service, and we will 
spend another $100 billion in Iraq in 2007 alone. That is over $500 
billion with virtually no oversight from Congress. We must start 
showing improvement in Iraq. Accountability leads directly to success, 
in my opinion. Iraq must begin making progress towards full 
responsibility by policing their own country. Without progress, it is a 
waste to continue U.S. investment in troops and financial resources.

We all support our troops. We must support our troops. We will do 
everything in our power to make sure that they have the equipment that 
they need. However, we cannot continue to write a blank check to this 
administration. Until our last troop has returned home, the American 
people deserve to know how their money is being spent. Accountability 
is not only patriotic, it often determines success from failure.

The Blue Dog proposal gives us an opportunity to regain that 
oversight and responsibility. This is the responsibility that we have 
to all of our men and women in uniform, to their parents, and to the 
American taxpayer who is footing the bill.

The Congressional Research Service and the Congressional Budget 
Office have clearly stated that if this continues, our fiscal 
irresponsibility in Congress, if it continues by the year 2040, every 
single penny of revenue that the Federal Government receives will go 
just to fund the interest on our national debt.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot afford to let this happen. We cannot saddle 
our children with the irresponsibilities of this administration.