# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `0718478d3d8819a3c79bbddd5db01ad1`
`Mr. BOND â€” 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, earlier this month President Obama renewed 
his commitment to the counterinsurgency on a ''clear, hold, and build'' 
strategy for Afghanistan. As I have said several times before on this 
floor, I believe this strategy will allow our troops to return with 
success and put Afghanistan on the road to stability. But, as I have 
also said, when you go into a war, when you launch a major effort such 
as this involving tens of thousands of Americans who will be putting 
their lives on the line, we must go in with an attitude of success. We 
are going in to succeed. Let's be clear about that. We must succeed in 
Afghanistan unless we are to face the kinds of risks we faced on 9/11.

Harkin back to the early 2000s when the Taliban ruled Afghanistan. 
Their friends from al-Qaida came into Afghanistan and used it as a 
ground for recruiting, training, issuing command and control, and 
preparing for attacks. From that part of Afghanistan came the 
directions and the leadership for the tragic attacks on 9/11.

As President Obama has said many times over, fighting in Afghanistan 
is the war of necessity. It is one we cannot fail to win because we 
have seen what happens when Afghanistan falls into Taliban hands.

I happen to disagree with him because Iraq was the next featured spot 
for al-Qaida, Osama bin Laden, and Ayman al-Zawahiri to go. We had that 
from the Clinton administration. Their intelligence chief, Security 
Chief Clark, said that when we drive Osama bin Laden out of 
Afghanistan, he will boogie to Baghdad. That is what all of the 
information we saw in the intelligence committee indicated. They wanted 
to make Iraq--Baghdad--at the confluence of the Euphrates and Tigris 
Rivers, headquarters for their operations. They call it the Caliphate.

We went in and cleaned out Saddam Hussein, who was a vicious, 
murderous tyrant. We didn't find any weapons of mass destruction. 
People said we didn't need to go in. However, in the intelligence 
community, we found out that, No. 1, the intelligence was off base. 
They made assumptions they should not have.

But we also sent in the Iraq Survey Group, headed by David Kay, who 
went in to look at the conditions in Iraq and found out what those 
conditions were prior to our going into Iraq to clean out Saddam 
Hussein. The conclusion Mr. Kay and his very skilled team came to was 
that Iraq was a far more dangerous place even than we knew. There were 
terrorist groups running around in there.

Abu Mus'ab al-Zarqawi, who later became famous for beheading 
Westerners he captured, on television, for the edification of his 
twisted viewers, had a group called Ansar al-Islam. That group later 
morphed into al-Qaida and became al-Qaida in Iraq.

Fortunately, very good intelligence work and the administration of a 
shot from a litening pod on an Air National Guard F-16--and I am proud 
to have been a sponsor of earmarks to put litening pods on Air National 
Guard aircraft--wiped out Abu Mus'ab al-Zarqawi.

At the same time he was running around, he was looking for weapons of 
mass destruction. There is no question that Iraq had used weapons of 
mass destruction before. He had used them against the Kurds, his own 
people. He had the facilities to produce them. He had the scientists to 
produce them. He had the recipes to produce them and what we call a 
just-in-time inventory system. He could have started up chemical or 
biological weapons of mass destruction, had he not been taken out, and 
turned them over to terrorist groups.

In Iraq, we successfully took out Saddam Hussein. Then we tried to 
prevail with a counterterrorism strategy. That is where you send in 
some of our elite forces and you take out the leaders of al-Qaida. Then 
you go back to your base. The problem we found was that once we left, 
al-Qaida would come back.

Insurgency is different from a regular war. They would come back in. 
If anybody cooperated with the American forces, they would kill them or 
torture them first and kill them or even torture their families in 
front of them and then kill them. So we knew things were not going 
right.

President Bush chose, with Secretary Gates--he and Secretary Gates 
chose GEN David Petraeus, who was a real scholar. He happened to have 
gone to the same college I went to, but he was a real scholar. He had 
developed a counterinsurgency strategy that he believed was the only 
way to deal with insurgency, so they instituted the ''clear, hold, and 
build'' approach in Iraq. They would send in the troops and clear out 
al-Qaida. Then they would embed or lock down with the Iraqi forces 
there. That way, they could maintain the security of the area. People 
would not dare come back in with American and Iraqi troops there.

My son happened to see both sides of that. He was there in 2005, in 
the ground intel operation in Fallujah. They found that the locals were 
not interested in working with the Americans. We now know why. They 
were very fearful for their lives if they did.

The second time he went, he went in with the 2/6 Marines, who drove 
al-Qaida out of Al Anbar Province. His scout snipers were assigned to 
capture his old stomping ground in Fallujah. They did it, and the 
difference was dramatic.

By that time, General Petraeus had set up the Sunni citizens watch, 
working with the Iraqi Government. They had the Sunni police. When they 
went


in, they immediately started recruiting young Sunni men to serve in the 
police force in Fallujah. They offered people who had injuries medical 
help. They offered assistance for those who needed reparations, who had 
damage. They got that done.

Within a month, my son said, the marines were not all needed, they 
were not active, because when somebody brought in an IED, an improvised 
explosive device, or an AQI--al-Qaida in Iraq--person came in, the 
Sunni citizens watch would turn it over to the Sunni police and they 
would take care of it.

That is why we have made the progress, despite what some on this 
floor said--that the war is lost; we cannot win it; we ought to 
withdraw. The counterinsurgency strategy worked.

When we moved into Afghanistan, we found that in the years since we 
had driven the Taliban out, we turned the task of keeping Afghanistan 
stable and secure over to NATO. NATO forces, regrettably, were not 
adequate. They employed a counterterrorism ''fire and fall back'' 
strategy, or even less. Some rode around in armored vehicles during the 
daytime and went back and had tea in the late evening. The Taliban 
owned the evening.

So when GEN Stan McChrystal went there, he was assigned by President 
Obama to carry out his strategy. The President outlined a very clear 
strategy, which was, we need a counterinsurgency strategy, clear, hold, 
and build--what I refer to as ''smart power.'' You need military force, 
but you need economic development assistance, whether it be medical or 
governance assistance. You need to help people develop a better life. 
He tasked General Petraeus to do that.

General Petraeus outlined a strategy--he outlined it in August; we 
first saw it then--and he outlined a good strategy. He said he needed 
40,000 troops. Since the President has said he is going to send 30,000, 
he has cut back on the objectives. He believes that will work.

We are now getting the troops there. It is going to take time to get 
the troops there. I wish we had started 3 months earlier because we had 
been losing ground until we got the additional troops in. But he 
started getting the troops there.

I believe we can provide stability and security in Afghanistan. Are 
we building a nation? No. But we are building stability and security. 
Before you can have a nation, before you can even have a working 
economy, you have to have security. You have to make sure the 
insurgents, the Taliban or occasionally their friends from al-Qaida, do 
not come back in and take over the area and destroy your crops.

Previously, the Taliban had cut down all the pomegranates. 
Afghanistan was the breadbasket for that part of the world. They had 
destroyed agriculture so that only their colleagues in the drug trade 
could control the land. That is where a significant amount of the money 
for funding the Taliban has been coming from, poppy production and the 
drugs it produces.


That process is ongoing. But we have found some test markets where 
that has worked. I was told by then-General Eikenberry in January 2006, 
and echoed by President Karzai, that they needed extensive agents from 
America to help them rebuild their agriculture. I tried for 2 years. 
With the help of my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee, we 
twice appropriated $5 million to the Department of State to get the 
USAID to send in extension agents. With $10 million, absolutely zero 
people went, as far as we know. So in 2007, I worked with the Missouri 
National Guard, good friends of mine. They sent a survey team over and 
said: We can help. In early 2008, they sent a 50-member agricultural 
development team to Nangarhar Province, Jalalabad. It was the No. 2 
poppy producing province in the nation, but they had an excellent 
Governor. They wanted to work. So the Guard team went in. These were 
trained soldiers and armed airmen and women who knew how to fight in a 
battle. But they also had agricultural backgrounds in their day jobs, 
in civilian employment. They were farmers, agronomists, soil 
specialists, foresters, food processors, veterinarians. They went in 
and helped the farmers of that province rebuild their agriculture.

By the end of the growing season in 2008, President Karzai said they 
had made a tremendous difference. He said it was one of the great 
successes. Ten more National Guard teams are going. In December of last 
year, when I was there, before I went out to Nangarhar, President 
Karzai served us a wonderful dinner including broccoli from Nangarhar. 
I found that not only did they have security but poppy production in 
Nangarhar went from being second highest in the Nation to almost zero. 
We now have our third Missouri National Guard team over there. They are 
planning on going 7 more years, because they want to continue that 
partnership. Guard units across the Nation are lining up to partner 
with other provinces.

This is a great model. Unfortunately, it is not enough to have Guard 
forces there. We have to have a national security budget that includes 
the civilian side, the economic and development side, the agricultural 
side, the educational side along with the military force. That is one 
of the things I am worried about. We have to make sure that we get the 
''build'' side of clear, hold and build, of smart power working in 
Afghanistan. We cannot expect them to maintain their security if they 
don't have a way of earning a good livelihood. Make no mistake, they 
are earning a better livelihood with legitimate crops than they were 
with poppies. They are not bowing down to the drug lords or to the 
Taliban. Most of all, producing flowers for drugs was against their 
religion so they are happier. But we need to do a lot more of that.

I think the first and most significant part in doing that was sending 
the 30,000 more of our trained military volunteers deploying to 
Afghanistan. The bill before the Senate today is critical to ensuring 
these troops have the equipment, training, and resources needed to 
execute their mission. You can't send that many more troops there 
without giving them resources. This bill is essential for giving the 
resources.

I especially thank the majority of the House and Senate for not 
loading this critical troop bill up with poison pills. I know there was 
some discussion--it must have been tempting--to use legislation to pass 
unrelated and controversial proposals. I have always voted for and 
continue to support funds our troops need. If we had seen on this bill 
things to add, for example, another expensive, doomed-to-fail stimulus 
bill, I would have had to vote no. We have seen that the majority's $1 
trillion stimulus bill, passed late last winter, has failed to produce 
the jobs promised and the budget which doubles the debt in 5 years and 
triples it in 10. It puts our children and grandchildren's financial 
future at hock. I didn't want to see that on legislation to appropriate 
the funds that our troops needed. I am delighted they didn't.

I offer a very special thank you to my good friend Chairman Dan 
Inouye who heads our Appropriations Committee. He is a true American 
hero, and I have the utmost admiration for him and greatly commend him 
for the manner in which he is leading the Appropriations Committee. He 
tirelessly works to ensure that America's priorities in defense are put 
in the right place. I issue my strongest thanks to him and our 
distinguished Republican leader Thad Cochran. One of the things I think 
they did, which was absolutely necessary, was to add the most reliable, 
heavily used workhorses in the Air Force inventory, the C-17 cargo 
aircraft, to the bill. This is the modern transport plane used to move 
our warfighters into battle. It gives them the equipment and supplies 
to execute their mission. With the President's recent announcement of 
an additional 30,000 troops, there is going to be more need for them. 
It is only growing. Secretary Gates has said we must prepare for the 
fights we are in today. It is no secret that the C-17 is in the middle 
of the fights, getting equipment and troops to and from Iraq to 
Afghanistan today. It is a combat-tested aircraft, essential to the 
fight we are in.

The CRS said it was designed to fly 1,000 hours per year over 30 
years. But overseas we have seen it flying 2,400 hours a year. The 
logistics are particularly responsive to the kind of delivery the C-17 
can make. Some people say: We have enough C-17s and C-5s. I agree with 
General Schwartz who stated ''too much iron is not enough.'' The C-5As, 
which must be retired and now can be retired, only have a 50-percent 
readiness level, a per-hour operating cost of


$29,000, and 40 maintenance man-hours per 1 hour of flight. It is time 
to retire them and replace them with the C-17.

Dr. Ashton Carter hit the nail on the head. I commend him for his 
vision. He said:




 I feel industrial base issues are completely legitimate 


 because having the best defense industrial technology base in 


 the world is not a birthright. It's something we have to earn 


 again and again.


As America's only large airlift production line, if we were to end C-
17 production, it would risk our Nation's long-term opportunity to 
produce the aircraft we need. It will also keep the scientists, 
engineers, designers, and dedicated workers who can turn out the future 
aircraft we need.

I yield the floor.