# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `07e034b57cfd76697cdfd200b4d7e42f`
`Mr. McKEON â€” 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I 
thank him and his family and son, especially, who joined the Marines 
the day after
9/11 and is now serving his third deployment.

I rise today in opposition to the cleverly dubbed troop readiness 
bill being considered. While none of us here want to be at war, the 
fact remains that we are. And we owe it to the honorable men and women 
in uniform to provide the proper tools, resources and atmosphere for 
victory.

So it is beyond my comprehension that my colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle must insist on limiting the authority of our military 
leaders and General Petraeus.

From the outset, this poorly crafted dwell time bill may have the 
faint appearance of trying to improve the readiness of units and 
quality of life of members in the Armed Forces, but it is just another 
example of the disingenuous goal masked by a clever name. In truth, the 
bill is a backhanded attempt to force an American withdrawal from Iraq.

In doing so, the bill limits the flexibility of the U.S. military 
commanders to conduct operations in the field and only prohibits troops 
deployed in Iraq. This is a point that should not be overlooked. The 
true intent of this legislation is obvious. There are mandates that 
only apply to the U.S. forces committed to Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
Afghanistan, another active theater in this war against terror, is not 
even mentioned. If this were a sincere effort on the part of my 
Democrat counterparts, it would apply to all deployments.

Mr. Speaker, the harsh realities in this bill would have lasting 
negative effects on our military and would inappropriately infringe 
upon the constitutional duties of the President of the United States as 
Commander in Chief. If this bill were to become law, it would paralyze 
our military. It would increase stress on our Armed Forces by reducing 
the pool of forces available and would intensify the risk of our 
soldiers remaining in Iraq. Moreover, it could theoretically extend the 
amount of time forces remain on the ground in Iraq, which would 
negatively impact the morale of our soldiers and their families at 
home.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3159 is bad policy, and I urge my colleagues to 
oppose it. Churchill once said in the midst of another war, ''Give us 
the tools and we will finish the job.''

Mr. Speaker, it is the duty of this House and of this Congress and of 
this Nation to give our men and women the resources they need to see 
this conflict through to the end. While our troops are fighting in 
Iraq, Democrat leadership is crafting thinly veiled legislation to 
weaken their ability to succeed, and I think we must ask ourselves why. 
I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing this bill.