# None
## `082a89d19faa2dac4a49e70639bdc6fb`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. And what the President is saying, and this blank 
check; you know, Mr. Ryan, I really think that the President thinks 
that he has a rubber stamp Congress. I think that is what he is thinks, 
because that is what he is used to.

It is almost like having a situation if you are a small business 
owner and you come in and you have a shop in one county and you spend 
most of your time over in the other county, you come over to your other 
shop and you notice the way they are doing business and there aren't 
any accountability measures on productivity, there are no 
accountability measures on spending. And you are wondering why this 
shop, the shop in the opposite county that you are very seldom at is 
running on time or being cost effective, and then you come in and you 
say that there should be change; but then, better yet, the manager of 
that shop says, well, why should we change? I know we are not doing 
things the way you want us to do it and we know that we are spending a 
lot of money over here. Why should we change? Well, that is what we 
have right now.

The President is saying that the Iraqi elected officials and the 
Iraqi government don't have to be accountable and their feet should not 
be held to the fire. But, better yet, we have mayors, governors, State 
legislators, county commissioner, parish, what have you, they have to 
be accountable or they lose their funding or don't get their funding 
when you are in a war that is costing $500 billion and counting.

When you look at these issues, Members, you can't help but say 
something is not right here. These are the people that are here in the 
United States of America, States, cities, counties that have to be 
accountable through Federal law and Federal appropriations. And over 
here, we have the Iraqi government. 3,351 of our men and women that 
have died, over 26-plus thousand that have been injured. And wasted 
money. And 100 soldiers that died last month alone. And we don't want 
accountable measures over here. We want to trust the administration on 
it, and we just want to say don't put any benchmarks there, don't even 
put any real goals there, don't do anything, don't ask any questions, 
just send us the money; you don't know what you are doing.

Well, I tell you this much. As long as this majority is here in this 
House of


Representatives that passed a bipartisan bill, sent it to the White 
House, that had accountability measures in it, my prayer tonight is 
going to be for those that will be there at the negotiating table there 
in the White House come tomorrow morning that, on both sides, that they 
hold the interests of the American people before you hold the interests 
of someone that made a promise in Iraq, in a foreign land, to say that 
we are going to have as much flexibility that we are going to have, and 
accountability measures don't need to be in place.

It couldn't come at a worse time, Mr. Ryan. The newspaper is full and 
the media is full of how the American people have not been told the 
truth. It is sickening. I feel that it is something that I didn't do in 
the minority. Maybe I didn't understand something in the last two 
Congresses that I was a part of, of watching all of this lack of 
information that has been given to Congress and how the administration 
has gotten away with this, and they have gotten away with saying, ''I 
am sorry, that is all. What do you want from us?'' We lost e-mails, CIA 
agents have been outed, clandestine operations abroad have been 
jeopardized. Men and women, there have been cover-ups. I am talking 
about testimony before Congress just weeks ago, things have been 
covered up with friendly fire of certain individuals that signed up to 
defend this country. Meanwhile, we are sitting here being nice guys and 
nice ladies and not standing and hold their feet to the fire.

This is the reason why we have a U.S. House of Representatives, the 
reason we have a U.S. Senate, the reason why there are three branches 
of government, where we don't have kingdom politics where one just says 
this is the way it is going to be, like it or not.

Well, I have got a message for the White House and I have also got a 
message from the American people. The bottom line is we live in a 
democracy. We would love to sit down at the table of compromise so that 
we can come out with a work product. But don't sit there saying what 
you are not going to do and what you are going to do before you sit 
down at the table. At least the leadership here is saying that we are 
going to make sure that there is accountability and that there are 
benchmarks there for progress, and make sure the U.S. taxpayer dollars 
are being sent, not just some sort of slogan of saying, well, you know, 
I am trying to command from over here. I mean, it didn't make sense, 
Mr. Ryan. But the bottom line is, the thing that is good about this 
whole thing is that if this was a year ago, it wouldn't even be a 
debate. It wouldn't even be discussed. Accountability? Oh, no. The 
majority would say, we wouldn't do that. And now we have the 
accountability, we have the strength of the majority in the Senate and 
the strength of the majority here in the House.

But if there was a political question, like I said before, and one 
would sit back and just let it play out and say, well, one day we will 
get to that point. We cannot afford to get to that one day. We have to 
do this now. Not several months from now, now. The American people 
demand it, the U.S. troops deserve it, our veterans deserve it.

There are dollars in this emergency supplemental that fix Walter Reed 
and start to fix the veterans services in this country. There are 
dollars in here that help make sure that the men and women have the 
proper training and the equipment before they get to the field. Wow, 
Mr. Ryan, there is a revelation there, that we will have equipment and 
that we would make sure that striker forces have what they need of 
making sure they have a commander and a gunner and a driver, the 
essentials, that are trained in those categories before that striker 
vehicle pulls out of Camp Victory. Wow, there is something, that we are 
actually going to do what we said we are going to do, and we are going 
to take the Department of Defense's own regulations, Mr. Ryan, and put 
it into Federal law in this emergency supplemental; of saying that if 
you are going to spend these dollars, this $124-plus billion, that you 
are going to be accountable in these ways, Department of Defense.

The reason why the President doesn't like this, Mr. Ryan, is the fact 
that it is actually doing what it said that he would do, and he doesn't 
want his words to actually come to fruition when it comes down to the 
way he described it. He came here at this podium, Mr. Ryan, we were 
sitting right out here. He came to that podium and said: We are going 
to hold the Iraqi government accountable. We are going to make sure 
that they train the troops. All of these things that he said, we took 
note as the Congress and put it into the emergency supplemental. And I 
think it is important that everyone understands what that is.

One other thing, Mr. Ryan. The bill provides $21.1 billion for 
military health care, more than what the President requested; $900 
million of that for posttraumatic stress disorder, $661 million to 
prevent health care fees increasing on our troops, $20 million to 
address the problem at Walter Reed. It provides $1.8 billion for more 
veterans health care, more than what the President has called for. I 
want to add again, $595 million to address the backlog maintaining the 
VA health care facilities, $250 million to hire additional personnel 
for the administration for VA health care, for the health care system, 
$229 million for treatment for the growing number of Iraqi and 
Afghanistan veterans, $100 million for mental health care in veterans 
assistance, $83 million to speed up the processing of claims for 
veterans returning back from Iraq and Afghanistan. It also provides 
other additional above what the President calls for as it relates to 
supporting of the troops.

And I think it is important that people understand, $2 billion for 
more strategic reserve readiness funds, which $1 billion is for Army 
National Guard equipment shortfalls. This is very, very important. $1.1 
billion for more military housing and $3 billion more for making sure 
that there is mine resistant ambush protection, what we call MRAPs, for 
troops in Iraq.

Mr. Ryan, the reason why the President is talking about additional 
spending, I want to make sure that every veteran in the United States 
of America understands that he is talking about the money that I just 
described and then some.

So, Mr. Speaker, I know that the President is used to having bills 
come to his desk that he can't even wait for it to get through the door 
before he signs it in tax cuts for the billionaires and those super 
wealthy. But this time he had legislation that's before him or he had 
legislation before him that he vetoed it that would have helped 
everyday Joe and Sue that signed up to serve this country in the way 
that this country asked them to serve. And, doggone it, if we can't 
stand behind them, then something is really wrong.


And I am really glad, Mr. Ryan, that I am not just speaking on the 
behalf of the ''if we could, we would.'' But I can tell you this. What 
the majority leader is doing when he sits down in the Senate with the 
President tomorrow and the Speaker of this House what she is doing when 
she sits down with the President of the United States tomorrow, I want 
them to feel that they are wearing the breastplate of righteousness to 
be able to go to the President and say, these are average people, they 
are not sons and daughters of millionaires and billionaires. And, you 
know something? They are going to have rights, too. They have rights. 
And they have the right to be represented, and they will be 
represented. And I am so happy that we are going toe to toe with the 
President of the United States, not for politics, but for the country 
and for the folks that their mom and dad, they may only own one pickup 
truck, some of them wanted to go to college but couldn't afford to go 
to college, some might have gone to college and went into the Marines 
or to the Army or to the Navy or to the Air Force or into the Coast 
Guard. Those that are serving in theater as officers, we owe it to 
them. That is the bottom line. They deserve the representation.

I know that the President is used to getting a blank check so 
Halliburton can spend all the money they want to spend and burn trucks 
and then get paid by the Federal Government. That will no longer 
happen, not under this watch, not as long as we have a Democratic 
majority in this House and a bipartisan spirit that is willing to send 
him the bill.

I don't want to challenge the President to veto another bill. I want 
to challenge the President to come to the table and sit down, and let's 
have a sensible conversation and let's come up with a work product that 
we can all


live with. It is not going to all be that he wants, it is not going to 
be all that we want. But doggone it, Mr. Speaker, when they rise from 
that table and we get the report, the rest of us, Members of Congress, 
the integrity of what we have sent to the White House when it comes 
down to accountability, when it comes down to performance, and when it 
comes down to holding the Iraqi government accountable and assisting 
our men and women that have served and those that are coming back from 
theater when they need veteran services, that must be there. That has 
to be there. And if the President doesn't allow it, then I would say 
our leadership should not allow him to have his way.

As far as I am concerned, it is a no-brainer; and that is the reason 
why the American people overwhelmingly support our position, Mr. Ryan. 
When I say our position, I am not saying the Democratic majority's 
position, I am saying the position of the bipartisan legislation that 
we passed through House and Senate.

I want to thank you for your patience, sir, because I thought it was 
very, very important that we talk a little bit about what the President 
did veto and what's in the legislation so that folks don't get the 
misrepresentation that has been given to them over the last hour or so 
from the White House.