# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `084bb8486713c7bb74e8f17c5e09fe6a`
`Mr. BYRD â€” 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, this afternoon we take up legislation making 
emergency supplemental appropriations for the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan and to help Americans cope with a sagging economy. One year 
ago, Congress sent the President a war funding supplemental that 
included clear direction to bring our troops home, home, home, sweet 
home, from Iraq by December of 2007. The President chose to do what? 
Shame. He chose to veto that bill. If he had signed that bill, most of 
our troops would be home, home, home, sweet home today. Instead of 
bringing our troops home, the President demanded an increase in our 
commitment of U.S. troops--shame--and treasure to this terrible, awful 
war that has now entered its sixth year--sixth year. How long? How 
long, O Lord, how long?

Mr. President, 4,081 American soldiers have died--died. One can only 
die once. Over 30,000 U.S. soldiers have been wounded. By the end of 
2008, the war in Iraq will have cost over $608 billion--over $608 
billion. That is more than $608 for every minute since Jesus Christ was 
born.

Today we are considering the President's request for another $178 
billion--another $178--billion for the wars at a time when the U.S. 
economy is in trouble. Well, one thing is clear. Yes, I am sorry to say 
one thing is clear in this request: American fighting men and women--
your brothers and sisters and mine--will continue to be in Iraq when 
the Presidency of George W. Bush ends on January 20, 2009. Shame. I was 
against that terrible, horrible war from the beginning and so stated on 
this floor time after time after time.

Long after our military fulfilled its mission in Iraq, the White 
House failed to advance a viable strategy for establishing long-term 
stability in Iraq. In response, we in the Congress will support our 
troops--your troops, my troops, our troops--but we will also continue 
our efforts to get our troops out--O-U-T--of Iraq with honor and take 
care of our troops after they come home.

In the third committee amendment, we set a goal for reducing the 
scope of the mission in Iraq by June of 2009. We ensure our troop 
readiness levels are maintained. We limit the time our troops will 
serve in Iraq. We require Iraq to use more of its surplus oil revenues 
for reconstruction costs, and we require that any long-term commitments 
this lameduck President may make with the Government of Iraq be 
considered as treaties, subject to approval by this Senate.

While the war continues in its sixth year--shame--our economy at home 
is in trouble. Because of President Bush's failed fiscal leadership, in 
the last 7 years the U.S. Government has amassed the five largest 
deficits in the history of this great Republic. President Bush has more 
than doubled the U.S. debt held by China, Japan, and other countries. 
Economic growth almost came to a halt at the end of last year, with the 
gross domestic product falling from 4.9 percent in the third quarter to 
0.6 percent--0.6 percent--in the fourth quarter.

Growth remains at a paltry 0.6 percent this year. Since March 2007, 
the number of unemployed has increased by 1.1 million workers up to 7.8 
million workers. In April, the number of Americans who were out of work 
for at least 27 weeks rose to 1.35 million.

Yet the President--your President, my President, our President--is 
satisfied to allow unemployment benefits to expire after just 26 weeks. 
Did you hear that? Shame. I have reviewed the President's request 
carefully, and there is no evidence--none--of the President asking for 
funding to invest in America or to help struggling Americans deal with 
the faltering economy.

Yet the President--your President, this President, our President--has 
already thrown down the gauntlet by threatening to veto the 
supplemental bill if the Congress has the temerity--did you hear that--
to add one thin dime above his request in order to help our citizens at 
home.

Thirty-two months after Hurricane Katrina, the President continues to 
resist efforts to help the victims of that terrible storm. The homeless 
population in New Orleans has doubled to nearly 12,000 since Hurricane 
Katrina. Only 48 percent of the pre-Katrina hospital beds in the region 
were staffed as of November of 2006. Violent crime in Louisiana grew 53 
percent last year.

In the last 18 months, the President has designated 61 disasters for 
floods in 32 States. Yet the President has not--n-o-t, not--you know, 
there was a duel between John Shot and John Not. In this case, it was 
better to be Shot than Not. The President has not requested funds to 
repair levees or other flood prevention efforts, leaving our citizens 
in Arkansas--did you hear that--Missouri, Louisiana, and other States, 
vulnerable to more flooding. But when it comes to Iraq, the President 
wants the dollars to flow, flow, flow.

Congress has already approved $45 billion requested by the President 
for reconstruction projects in Iraq. Despite the fact that the Iraqi 
Government is running a huge surplus due to excess oil revenues, our 
President--your President, my President, the American President--is 
asking this Congress--the buck stops here--asking you and me and the 
people in this Congress to approve another $5.6 billion of American 
taxpayer dollars for reconstruction in Iraq.

The President claims that by adding funding for America to this bill 
we are holding hostage money for the troops. Oh, my heavens, what 
hogwash. What hogwash. Last year, we sent the President a war 
supplemental that increased funding to provide better health care for 
our soldiers, better health care for our veterans, more funding to 
equip and train the National Guard and Reserve, more funding for mine 
resistant vehicles, and clear direction to bring our troops home--home 
sweet home. This year, we once again take care of our troops, but we 
also invest in America.

Last week, the Senate Appropriations Committee met and approved 
amendments that meet these objectives. Based on the committee action, 
the Senate will consider amendments that fully fund the President's 
request for the war. In fact, the legislation increases funding above 
the President's $168 billion request for the Department of Defense. We 
include increases for the health care of our troops, for Guard and 
Reserve equipment, for repairing and constructing barracks, for the 
mission in Afghanistan, for military childcare facilities, for 
improving contract management, and for helping--yes, Senator Webb--
wounded troops returning home--home sweet home.

We honor those who have served America by increasing educational 
benefits for our veterans. We extend unemployment benefits by another 
13 weeks. We honor promises made to the victims of Hurricane Katrina by 
funding a 100-year levee in Louisiana, restoring barrier islands in 
Mississippi, and by rebuilding hospitals, helping


the homeless, and fighting crime. We roll back Medicaid regulations 
that our Nation's Governors believe disrupt health coverage for 
vulnerable citizens. We respond to dramatic increases in food prices by 
increasing funding for the global food aid program.

We are also generous in providing humanitarian relief to disaster 
victims in China, Bangladesh, and Burma. We reduce funding for 
reconstruction in Iraq. We limit the size of taxpayer-financed 
reconstruction projects. And we require Iraq to match our tax dollars 
with their surplus oil revenues.

This legislation includes provisions that have broad bipartisan 
support. The veterans legislation has 58 cosponsors. The Medicaid 
legislation passed the House by a vote of 349 to 62. I have a letter 
from 56 Senators seeking additional Byrne crimefighting funding. We 
fund the Rural Schools Program, which runs out of money on June 30, 
2008.

In total, the amendments include $194 billion for programs under the 
jurisdiction of the Appropriations Committee, $10 billion above the 
President's request. This increase is less than what we spend in Iraq 
in 1 month.


So I say to my fellow Senators, Mr. President, this is responsible 
legislation that supports our troops, responsible legislation that 
honors our veterans, responsible legislation that helps our citizens 
cope with a troubled economy.

I urge the adoption of the amendment.

I yield the floor.