# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `0850db82cbbbffd8b6cb4cdd3d0897c2`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I am offering this with Senators McCain, 
Akaka, Warner, Murray, Graham, and about 40 other Senators who are 
listed on the amendment.

This amendment, in bill form, was introduced on June 13 of this year. 
It was marked up and unanimously agreed to by the Armed Services 
Committee on the 14th of June. It was reported to the full Senate on 
the 18th of June. As of now, as I indicated, we have over 40 
cosponsors. The ideas of many Senators and parts of legislation 
championed by many Senators are incorporated in this amendment.

This is truly a bipartisan amendment. It is an amendment that has had 
a huge amount of input by many Senators. Although I would prefer the 
Senate consider this important legislation as a stand-alone provision, 
a stand-alone bill, because of the shortage of floor time, we now offer 
it as an amendment to the national defense authorization bill. If it is 
adopted as an amendment, and assuming that our Defense authorization 
bill is passed, we would then seek to have it introduced and passed 
immediately thereafter as stand-alone legislation, so we would have it 
in two forms--one as an amendment to the bill and the other as a stand-
alone bill passed by the Senate, so it could go immediately to the 
House, without waiting for a conference on the authorization bill 
between the Senate and the House, which would delay the passage of this 
very important legislation.

Shortfalls in the care and treatment of our wounded warriors came to 
our


attention as a result of a series of articles in the Washington Post in 
February. These articles described deplorable living conditions for 
some servicemembers in an outpatient status. They described a bungled 
bureaucratic process for assigning disability ratings that determine 
whether a servicemember will be medically retired with health and other 
benefits for himself and his family. They describe a clumsy handoff 
between the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans 
Affairs as the military member transitions from one department to 
another. The Nation's shock and dismay, when hearing about these 
problems, reflected the American people's support, the American 
people's respect, and the American people's gratitude to the men and 
women who put on our Nation's uniform. Those men and women deserve the 
best--not shoddy medical care and bureaucratic snafus.

The Armed Services Committee and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
held a rare joint hearing to identify the problems our wounded soldiers 
are facing. These committees have continued to work together to address 
these issues, culminating in the amendment we offer today. The 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs has also marked up separate legislation 
that will be offered as an amendment to our amendment. Their 
legislation will ensure that the Veterans' Administration appropriately 
addresses the problems our seriously wounded and injured servicemembers 
face after they transition to VA care.

The amendment we are introducing addresses the issues of inconsistent 
application of disability standards. It addresses disparate disability 
ratings, substandard facilities, lack of seamless transition from the 
Department of Defense to the Veterans' Administration, inadequacy of 
severance pay, care and treatment for traumatic brain injury and post-
traumatic stress disorder, medical care for caregivers not eligible for 
TRICARE, and it addresses the need to share medical records between the 
Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.

Our amendment addresses the issue of inconsistent disability ratings 
by requiring that the military departments use VA standards for rating 
disabilities, unless the Department of Defense rating is higher. So it 
would take the higher of the two ratings under our legislation. Our 
amendment adopts a more favorable statutory presumption for determining 
whether a disability is incident to military service. We do that by 
adopting the more favorable VA presumption.


We require two pilot programs to test the viability of using the VA 
to assign disability ratings for the Department of Defense. We also 
establish an independent board to review and, where appropriate, 
correct unjustifiably low Department of Defense disability ratings 
awarded since 2001.

Our amendment addresses the lack of a seamless transition from the 
military to the Veterans' Administration by requiring the Secretary of 
Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to jointly develop a 
comprehensive policy on the care and management of injured 
servicemembers who will transition from the Department of Defense to 
the VA.

We establish a Department of Defense and a Department of Veterans 
Affairs interagency program office to develop and implement a joint 
electronic health record.

The amendment authorizes $50 million for improved diagnosis, 
treatment, and rehabilitation of military members with traumatic brain 
injury, TBI, and post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD. We require the 
establishment of centers of excellence for both TBI and PTSD to conduct 
research, train health care professionals, and a number of other 
things.

We provide guidance throughout the Department of Defense in the 
prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of TBI 
and PTSD. And the amendment requires that the Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, report to Congress 
with comprehensive plans to prevent, diagnose, mitigate, and treat TBI 
and PTSD.

The amendment increases the minimum severance pay to 1 year's basic 
pay for those separated with disabilities incurred in a combat zone or 
combat-related activity and 6 months basic pay for all others. This is 
quadrupling or doubling, depending on the circumstance, of the current 
arrangement.

Our amendment also eliminates the requirement that severance pay be 
deducted from disability compensation for disabilities incurred in a 
combat zone.

Our amendment also addresses the problem that exists because 
medically retired servicemembers who are eligible for TRICARE as 
retirees do not have access to some of the cutting-edge treatments that 
are available to members still on active duty.

The amendment does that by authorizing medically retired 
servicemembers to receive the Active-Duty medical benefit for 3 years 
after the member leaves active duty, and this can be extended to 5 
years where medically required.

The amendment authorizes military and VA health care providers to 
provide medical care and counseling to family members who leave their 
homes and often leave their jobs to help provide care to their wounded 
warriors.

The dignified treatment of wounded warriors amendment requires the 
Secretary of Defense to establish standards for the treatment of and 
housing for military outpatients. These standards will require 
compliance with Federal and other standards for military medical 
treatment facilities, speciality medical care facilities, and military 
housing for outpatients that will be uniform and consistent and high 
level throughout the Department of Defense.

In summary, the dignified treatment of wounded warriors amendment is 
a comprehensive approach that lays out a path for the Department of 
Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to address shortfalls in 
the care of our wounded warriors in the Department of Defense and 
through the transition to care in the VA system. With the amendment we 
will be discussing in a moment, that has been adopted by the Veterans' 
Affairs Committee under the chairmanship and leadership of Senator 
Akaka, this bill will also address shortfalls in the VA system itself 
after the transition to the Veterans' Administration of our wounded 
warriors. Those warriors deserve the best care and support that we can 
muster. The American people rightly insist on no less.

There are a number of organizations which support this legislation. I 
will read from a release that was issued by one of those organizations. 
This is the Wounded Warrior Project:




 [This] is a nonprofit organization aimed at assisting those 


 men and women of the United States armed forces who have been 


 severely injured during the war on terrorism in Iraq, 


 Afghanistan, and other hot spots around the world.


A description of this project is:




 Beginning at the bedside of the severely wounded, Wounded 


 Warrior Project provides programs and services designated to 


 ease the burdens of these heroes and their families, aid in 


 the recovery process and smooth the transition back to 


 civilian life.


Just one paragraph from their release is the following:




 With this legislation, the Senate is telling our nation's 


 wounded warriors that they have heard their concerns and are 


 ready to take appropriate actions to ensure that these brave 


 men and women are taken care of in a manner befitting their 


 sacrifices. . . . This wide ranging legislation will improve 


 the provision of health care and benefits to injured military 


 personnel and make the system much more efficient as well.


I ask unanimous consent that the statement of the Wounded Warrior 
Project and the statement of the Fleet Reserve Association be printed 
in the Record at the conclusion of my remarks.