# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5811, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE  PRESERVATION ACT
## `085480bb231b83e9b095a71b623f2e0c`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont â€” 9 July 2008`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my 
time, and I'm going to approach the podium to use some charts.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is about the preservation of electronic 
records. The debate has turned into a discussion of our energy policy. 
And there are two reasons why we would be discussing energy instead of 
the substance of the actual bill. One is that our friends on the other 
side don't have anything to say about the importance of the 
preservation of electronic records. Two is they want to use the 
opportunity of floor time to make a case, their case, about energy. I 
intend to respond to both of those issues.

First of all, I want to go back to what this legislation is about. 
It's about the preservation of the historical record for the American 
people. It's also about the preservation of the records of the 
administration so that in the future when any Congress wants to hold 
any President accountable, there will be documentation of what has 
happened in that administration.

It is extraordinarily important that this Congress restore its 
constitutional function of insisting on accountability for the American 
people. We have three branches of government, and one of them has been 
asleep for the 6 years going into the year 2006, and that was Congress, 
the legislative representative of the people of this country, who 
demand and are entitled to accountability. If you do not have the 
preservation of the records of their government--these are not records 
belonging to the President. They're not records that belong to the 
executive branch. It's not for them to decide ''yes'' or ''no'' that we 
will preserve these records. This is a right of the American people. 
It's their property. And what this electronic records preservation does 
is say that you cannot use the paper system that doesn't work in an 
electronic age in effect to conceal from the American people what you 
did. It is overdue. And to take this debate and inject into it another 
topic, as important as energy is, is to trivialize the fundamentally 
important responsibility that this Congress has to the American people 
to restore oversight and accountability.

This government has make enormous mistakes and justified them by 
concealing information from the American people. What do you need to 
know more than what happened in the pathway to the war in Iraq? If the 
truth had been out there for the American people and for many in this 
body to know what the President knew and when the President knew it, 
what the administration knew and when they knew it, we would not be in 
this catastrophe for the American people called the war in Iraq.

So this legislation that says that e-mail records are going to be 
restored and retained electronically is of profound constitutional 
importance to the continuation of Congress in its role as the overseer 
and protector of the American record and the American taxpayer. So on 
its merits, this legislation should be considered as of absolute


vital importance to the people of this country. And we have heard no 
objections, and, indeed, this legislation was passed by voice vote.

Now, since the issue was raised, since the debate on this profoundly 
important question of constitutional oversight has been hijacked to 
turn it into an energy debate where it really doesn't belong, I am 
nevertheless going to respond to the arguments.



You start by this proposition. Implicit in many of the arguments that 
my friends on the other side made was that those of us on the 
Democratic side somehow don't understand the pain that the American 
consumer is experiencing with these record high gas prices.

I have got to just speak about Vermont. What I hear about from 
Vermonters is fear. I've never heard this. And gas prices are tough. 
They are trying to figure out how to get from here to there and pay for 
it. They've got cars that they don't get great mileage. They are 
doubling up. They are doing what they can. But, bottom line, the thing 
they are terrified about and they have real anxiety is how are they 
going to heat their homes next year.

We have to heat our homes there. And, folks, when they see that gas 
delivery truck show up, and last year it was like $2.50 a gallon, it's 
going to be $5 a gallon next year, and these families don't have the 
money to pay $1,000, $1,500, $2,000 to fill up a tank. They don't know 
what they're going to do. And we are going to see Vermonters who are 
doubling up. Generations are going to be living together because they 
don't know how they are going to pay that bill.

So, believe me, there's not a single Member in this House, Republican 
or Democrat, who doesn't profoundly understand the impact that this is 
having on everyday people, on our small businesses, on our economy.

So we can go back and forth with the accusations and we can go back 
and forth with the slogans, or we can acknowledge the obvious. The 
obvious is we have to do everything that we can in the short term to 
try to bring relief at the pump, to try to bring pressure off the small 
business and the consumer. Anything in the short-term that we can do, 
we should do, and we should do it together. But we also have to move to 
a long-term energy policy that no longer allows oil to have an iron 
grip on our future. That is what Americans know.

Short-term, what are some of the things we can do? We have done them. 
We stopped filling up the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. It will reduce 
demand by 70,000 to 90,000 barrels a day. Second, we are considering 
legislation for the oil companies to use the leases they have, or lose 
them.

There's this debate about bringing production online. Obviously, 
supply is an issue here. In the world, we pump about 86 billion barrels 
a day. We consume about 87 billion barrels a day. But the fact is that 
the slogans that I am hearing about just opening up other offshore 
areas in ANWR totally ignores the current reality, and that is that the 
oil companies, that are very good at what they do, have leases, 
existing leases that they pay good money on, on 68 million acres of 
land. That land, their leases, their leases exceed by 2/1/2/ times the 
area of the State of Ohio, the Minority Leader Boehner's district; 2 
times the State of Illinois; 2/1/2/ times the size of Pennsylvania. 
These are leases on Federal lands, onshore and offshore.

What are the oil companies doing? Not much. They are producing oil on 
a fraction of the leaseholds that they have.