# None
## `08a22500efb254cabbe2b93e58d6da53`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. It's an honor 
to address the House one more time.

As you know, the 30-something Working Group, we come to share with 
the Members fact, not fiction. I'm so glad my good friend from Georgia 
(Mr. Gingrey), we came into the Congress together, Dr. Gingrey, good 
friend, I want to borrow that chart from him because it shows how 
earmarks were cut in half when the Democrats took over. But that's 
another story. But I'm glad that he has the accurate numbers there, and 
I'm glad that we're going to have an opportunity to talk about that a 
little bit more in the future.



Mr. Speaker, we came to the floor yesterday, or last night, and 
talked about the issue of the President's veto of the SCHIP bill. We, 
the 30-something Working Group, received a lot of e-mails on that, and 
we received a lot of phone calls. There were a number of Members that 
even had questions like, ''Is it true that 41 days of what we spend in 
Iraq could pay for a full year of health care for children? Is it true, 
3/1/2/ months of what we spend in Iraq, which will come out to almost 
$35 billion, will pay for children's health care for 5 years?'' On both 
of those questions I would say, ''Yes. Absolutely. The numbers are 
there.'' I am going to have my charts here that I had last night 
hopefully join me here on the floor pretty soon.

It is very unfortunate, Mr. Speaker, that there are people that are 
focusing on the President. As far as I am concerned, the President said 
he was going to veto the SCHIP bill, the children's health care bill, 
and he did. Now it is up to Members of Congress. Yesterday we voted to 
set the date for the time that we are going to take up the SCHIP bill 
again to override the President's veto. I think between now and then, 
Members are going to have to reflect on if they are on the side of the 
President, of a bad decision that was a bipartisan bill, Mr. Speaker, 
that Democrats and Republicans voted in a bipartisan way to send that 
bill to the President, or are they with the uninsured children of this 
country.

Like I said last night, there are a number of provisions in the bill 
that some Members may not agree with. I have been in elected service 
now going on 14 years, Mr. Speaker. There has always been a provision 
in a bill that I didn't agree with. But for the greater good, 
especially when you are talking about health care for children, I saw 
past that one line or that one provision or that one piece that was not 
in there. I just want to say that this health care, and let me just 
share this because I want to make sure that the Members understand, 
that 10 million low-income children would have had health care in this 
country. Now, that is in every State. That is in my State of Florida. 
That is in Ohio. That is in California. That is in New York. That is in 
Texas. That is in Wyoming. All over. I think it is important that we 
shed light on that and we continue to talk about that in the face of 
wasteful spending in the past.

Another thing about this children's health care bill that wouldn't 
have been a reality in the 109th Congress, the Congress before this 
Congress, is the fact that it is paid for. Now, I am going to 
illustrate in a few minutes how things used to operate here on this 
House floor. The American people want to move in a new direction. At my 
house, if we are going to do something, we have to figure out how we 
are going to pay for it. We are not going to say, We will put it on a 
credit card and get it on some unforeseen date somewhere down in the 
future that is not necessarily lined out or identified yet, but we will 
figure it out somehow. We are going to end up in foreclosure or we are 
going to end up in a financial situation we can't get ourselves out of.

That is the position we find ourselves in now, Mr. Speaker. That is 
the reason why, in the majority, this House and the Senate agreed in 
the pay-as-you-go principles to make sure that if we say we are going 
to spend something, we are going to pay for it. So that is very, very 
important. When we look at some of the issues that the other side may 
bring up as it relates to fiscal responsibility, you have to look at, 
you just have to look at the irresponsibility, or the lack of 
responsibility, that the Republican side had when they were in control 
of this House.

When you look at $70 billion for the war in Iraq, $50 billion in 
subsidies to oil companies, $8 billion, these are billions, these are 
not millions, in loss, waste, fraud and abuse of no-bid contracts and 
billions for schools and roads and clinics in Iraq, but we cannot do 
the same for our children.

I am speaking in a very simple way here today, Mr. Speaker, because I 
want to make sure that Members totally understand what I am saying. I 
don't want to lose anyone with a whole bunch of acronyms in talking 
about things that are way out, pie in the sky, and some folks may not 
understand what is going on. The bottom line is, 10 million kids need 
health care for 5 years.

The other bottom line is the fact that we showed how we would pay for 
it, not building into an everlasting debt. Now, I am glad that this 
chart has made it to the floor. I think it is important. I pulled it 
out last night, and I have been using this chart almost for the last 3 
years. We have been updating it, but I think it is important. We talk 
about foreign debt and we talk about the Bush administration and 
Republicans here in Congress what they were able to do, $1.19 trillion 
in get debt over the last 6 years, and that is between 2001 and 2006. 
These numbers are from the Treasury Department. These are not Kendrick 
Meek numbers. Forty-two Presidents, 224 years, $1.01 trillion. I say 
that to say that the days of just stacking on top of the $1.9 trillion 
are over.

Now, when we start going down the line of what is important here, and 
what is important is making sure that domestically we look at the needs 
of our children and also of our country.


This is just an example, just to show you the per month. Now this is 
talking about college costs, but when you look at the per-year costs, 
that is $120 billion. I said, four and, 3/1/2/ months. I pulled this 
chart just to prove a point. 3/1/2/ months, $10 billion a month pays 
for the children's health care program. That is every State block 
grant, and the States get to apply it the way they want to. Many of 
them use private health insurance companies to provide that level of 
insurance that those kids need.

So when the President and some other folk in this Chamber in the 
minority, our Republican friends, they start to talk about socialized 
medicine, I don't know where they are getting these numbers from. I 
don't know where they are getting the logic from. But I can tell you 
what will be historic is making sure that we are able to enforce this 
piece of legislation.

I think it is important for Americans to weigh the kind of enthusiasm 
that the President has and our Republican colleagues may have or they 
do have on behalf of the Iraqi children. I'm sorry. I am a United 
States Congressman federalized by the people of the 17th Congressional 
District to come up and give representation to them and all Americans. 
I care about other kids in other parts of the world. I have been to 
Iraq. I have held Iraqi children in my arms. But guess what? I have 
held American children in my arms. It is not about my kids. I have two 
kids. We have health care. I thank God we have health care here in 
Congress. The people elected me to come up here and represent them not 
for me to have coverage and not for my kids to have coverage that they 
are not allowed to have, especially those that are financially 
challenged.

So I want the Members who are not thinking about overriding or who 
are thinking about joining in with the President and not allowing the 
Congress, this great democracy, the House and Senate, to override the 
President on this very bad decision. I also think it is important to 
highlight the fact that we have had a number, a number of editorials 
throughout the country, of papers, either it be rural America or urban 
America, either it be the East Coast or the West Coast or the Midwest 
or the Deep South or the North by the Canadian border, all throughout 
the country, they have called the decision that the President made a 
very, not only unpopular, but wrong decision.


The President is not running for reelection, but we Members of 
Congress have to run for election every 2 years. The reason why we have 
elections is to bring about accountability and to make sure that people 
back home in their given districts have the right people up here.

I think it is important for people to pay very close attention. Mr. 
Speaker, if this were about politics, I wouldn't spend the time to come 
down to the floor. I could be doing something else on this Thursday 
evening after we took our last votes of the week. I could be somewhere 
on the telephone talking to constituents, or I could be in my house 
here in Washington enjoying some time with the kids and the family. But 
I decided to be here because representation is very, very important in 
this 2-week span. One day has already passed. We have 9 days left. I 
want to make sure that American people and every Member of Congress 
know that in another 9 days, there will be an action to override the 
President.

What side are they going to be on? Are they going to be on the side 
of the children and on behalf of the people of the United States? Or 
are they going to be on the side of the President and the bad decision? 
I am not saying the President is not for the folks, for the good people 
of the United States of America. All I'm saying is that 10 million 
children that are poor and families would have had a guaranteed health 
care opportunity in their State, at least 10 million of them. That is a 
big number.

So when I hear the President talk about our obligations to Iraq, I 
can't help but think about our obligations here to the kids here in the 
United States and families here in the United States. I am just as 
passionate as anyone else may be about it. I share that today because I 
want my Republican colleagues who did not vote, those that voted for 
the SCHIP bill, congratulations. Thank you on behalf of all Americans 
and the 10 million children that are seeking health care. But for those 
who did not vote for the SCHIP bill, for the children's health care 
bill, I am asking you to rethink your decision for two reasons; one, 
you have another chance to do the right thing if you missed the 
opportunity to do the right thing when we pass the children's health 
care bill here on this floor. You have an opportunity to do the right 
thing. The second thing, I think more Americans are focused, 72 percent 
of Americans in a bipartisan poll said that they agree with the version 
of the children's health care bill that we passed throughout this 
floor. So that means they could be on the right side of the issue, and 
they can provide health care for 10 million children that many of them 
reside in their own congressional districts. I said I would give you 
two. I gave you three. And I can go on and on and on.

I think it is also important for the staff here in Congress. I have a 
chart that my former chief of staff left with me. It is actually a 
picture, Mr. Speaker. It is an iceberg. It has a little tip of the 
iceberg up there, a little triangle just kind of showing the top, then 
underwater you can see a majority of the iceberg which is almost 80 or 
90 percent of the iceberg. At the top it says, Member of Congress. 
Right under the iceberg it says, Staff, Congressional staff. I think it 
is important for those members of the staff that are paying attention 
to this debate and paying attention to what is happening right now in 
the country to talk to your Member or to talk to your ranking member 
and say that maybe you need to reconsider your vote.

Now, I am talking inside politics here under the dome. Because I 
don't think that this is an us-against-them kind of philosophy because 
we have to all be on the side of children. Like some folks say out in 
the neighborhood, it is what it is. And the bottom line is, 10 million 
children need health care and we need every person on the ground making 
that happen.

Also, I think that it is important, Mr. Speaker, and I just want to 
point out what happened recently. This is a picture of one of the first 
actions that we took here in this House. You remember. We all voted on 
it, to put benchmarks in and also timelines as relates to giving 
responsibility or mandating responsibility of the Iraqi Government to 
rise to the occasion to patrol the streets of Baghdad so we don't have 
to continue to watch our troops having to do door-to-door neighborhood-
to-neighborhood checks. Put the Iraqi folks up front and allow them to 
do it, or make them do it, so that we don't have to continue to click 
off $10 billion a month, some $3,316 a second in Iraq, because every 
time we stay there another day, another month in a combat mode, we 
continue to lose out.

After that, the vote was so overwhelming to do that, or, as the 
majority, until that, the Speaker and Leader Reid decided, let's 
override the President because the people wanted a new direction here 
in the United States. Not just Democrats, not just Republicans, but the 
people of the United States want it.



Well, here are some of my good friends that are here with the 
President, my Republican colleagues, not one Democrat in this crowd, 
outside of the White House standing with the President. Mr. President, 
we are going to be with you and we are not going to allow the Congress 
to override your veto.

Now, what happened after this event? Well, the approval rating of 
Congress overall went straight down. The American people wanted action, 
and they got more of the same.

I don't want another picture like this, Mr. Speaker, because in nine 
days, if we find that our Republican colleagues run back down to the 
White House and stand on the steps with the President and say we stand 
with the President and we will not allow the Congress to override his 
veto, I think it will be a very sad day in the United States of America 
when we provide health care for children abroad, and we are spending 
$120 billion a year, and counting, in Iraq, and we have Members of 
Congress and we have a President who doesn't want to provide health 
care for 10 million children here in the United States.



I feel we are up here to represent especially those that are most 
vulnerable. I guess because the kids that will be eligible for the 
SCHIP program, they can't vote, they are under 18, maybe that is the 
reason.

But I ask, Mr. Speaker, that those of us that are adults, if you are 
a grandparent or granddad or you are a senior, or you are a mother or 
father or an aunt or an uncle, or if your kids have health care, and we 
talked about that last night, because my kids go to school with other 
kids, and if someone is in that classroom that has not received health 
care insurance and they have a cold or they have some sort of ailment, 
my kids are going to end up falling victim to that.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I have two of my good colleagues from Ohio, 
they are about an hour-and-a-half away from each other I guess by car, 
the Chair of the Ethics Committee and a member of the Ways and Means 
Committee, who I am happy to serve with on that committee, Mrs. 
Stephanie Tubbs Jones, and also Mr. Tim Ryan from the great town of 
Youngstown, Ohio.

With that, I would like to yield to Mrs. Stephanie Tubbs Jones.