# STOP EXCESSIVE ENERGY SPECULATION ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED--
## `08b12cfb354abc54ee8e79b3875362b6`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 22 July 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, there is an old saying that when all is 
said and done, in most cases, more is actually said than done. Perhaps 
that applies best to this debate.

Should we resolve our energy problems and make us less dependent on 
the Saudis, Iraqis, and Venezuelans? Of course. Are we too dependent on 
foreign oil? You bet. Up to 70 percent of our oil comes from outside 
this country. Are we addicted to oil, as President Bush has suggested? 
Of course. How do you deal with the addiction to oil? Well, every 10 
years, our colleagues come to the floor and say let's drill more holes, 
bigger holes, deeper holes.

Do you know what? The debate is all about false choices. The 
suggestion has been made that people on this side of the Senate Chamber 
don't want to produce anymore. That is absurd, and they know it. That 
is what we insist because that is the narrative they have created for 
this issue. They don't want to do what needs doing, so they want to 
create a series of false choices.

Let me describe the issue of drilling. Drill more. Well, I support 
drilling


more. I worked with several others in this Chamber to open lease 181 in 
the Gulf of Mexico. I was one of four Senators who began that process. 
There is 8.3 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico that has been open for 
2 years. There is no oil activity on it right now, despite the fact 
there are proven reserves of oil and natural gas.

This is a map of Alaska, and this is the National Petroleum Reserve 
Alaska, NPRA. This happens to be 23 million acres, 20 million of which 
aren't even leased yet. But they are all open for production. We 
supported that. Here is a place you can drill. There is more oil here 
than there is in Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, which has become the 
hood ornament for their argument. So why aren't we drilling in the 
NPRA? It is open.

Many Republicans say that Democrats don't support drilling. In my 
home State, we have the Bakken shale, a seam 10,000 feet down. We have 
75 drilling rigs producing oil, drilling for oil in the Bakken shale, 
just in western North Dakota. There is similar activity in eastern 
Montana. A U.S. Geological Survey finished the assessment, and it is 
the largest contiguous assessment in the history of the lower 48 
States. They released that 3 months ago at my request. There are up to 
3.65 billion barrels of recoverable oil. We are drilling there right 
now. Don't tell me we are not for drilling. I am for more drilling. I 
am for much more conservation, energy efficiency, and renewable energy 
production. I am for all those things, but it seems to me you ought to 
do first things first.

We have a broken market called the oil futures market. It is a 
commodities market with which producers and consumers can hedge risks 
of a physical commodity, but it is now broken. It was created in 1936. 
The law that creates it has a provision called ''excess speculation,'' 
because they were worried about excess speculation. When Franklin 
Delano Roosevelt signed the bill creating the oil futures market, he 
warned about excess speculation. Well, here we are. The speculators 
have taken over this market. If you wonder if that is the case, I will 
show you the result of a House of Representatives investigation. In 
2000, 37 percent of the trades on the oil futures market were 
speculators. Now in 2008, it is 71 percent. They have completely taken 
over that market.

To my colleagues who say ''supply and demand''--and said:





. . . I wonder, why do people think that the American 


 people are so dumb they don't understand supply and demand?


He misunderstands. The American people aren't dumb at all. They get 
it. They are sick and tired of driving to the gas pump and paying these 
prices. They are sick and tired of seeing the price of oil double in 
one year, and then they look at supply and demand and realize nothing 
has happened in supply and demand to justify it--nothing.

I have asked the question: Will someone come to the floor of the 
Senate and describe to me what happened in supply and demand that 
justifies a doubling of the price of oil and gas in a year? They never 
do because they can't. The Secretary of Energy can't. The head of the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission can't. Despite the fact both of 
them repeatedly have said what is happening with the price of oil and 
gas is the fundamentals of supply and demand. Oh, really? Where? 
Describe it to me. Nothing has happened in the fundamentals of supply 
and demand that justifies doubling the price in the last year. What has 
happened is brain dead regulators, who are supposed to be wearing the 
striped shirts, the referees that are supposed to call the fouls, have 
sat back and said: Do whatever you want to do, have a good time, have a 
party, a carnival.

Speculators have taken over the market. There is a very important 
reason to have a futures market. It is to allow legitimate hedging of 
risk between producers and consumers of a physical product. This market 
became something much different than that. The regulators have said we 
will issue no-action letters so we don't have that to see. We are 
willfully blind and deaf and don't care very much what is going on. I 
know they will deny that, but that is the fact.

So you have a regulatory body that doesn't regulate, a market that is 
broken, and then we have folks waltz in here and thumb their suspenders 
and say: You know, we cannot be talking about speculation because there 
is no speculation. We have had testimony before our committees by some 
pretty good people who say that as much as 20, 30, up to 40 percent of 
the current price is due to rampant, relentless speculation.

Let me describe it from the standpoint of Mr. Fadel Gheit. I have 
talked to him by phone. He testified before the committee. This is a 
man who worked, for 30 to 35 years, as a top energy analyst for 
Oppenheimer & Company. He said this last fall:




 There is absolutely no shortage of oil. I am convinced that 


 oil prices should not be a dime above $55 a barrel.



 I call it the world's largest gambling hall. It's open 24/7 


 and totally unregulated. It is like a highway with no cops 


 and no speed limit, and everybody is going 120 miles an hour.


So we bring a bill to the Senate that says let's establish a 
distinction between those who are legitimately hedging--that is trading 
for legitimate hedging purposes and all others. All the others will be 
subject to strong position limits to try to wring the speculation out 
of the system. It is a reasonable thing to do, in my judgment.

My colleagues come to the floor of the Senate and say: No, let's go 
for more drilling. That is their narrative. I say, OK, let's do 
drilling. How about in the National Petroleum Reserve? We set aside 23 
million acres there, and only 3 million have been leased. Let's do 
that. In lease 181, there are 8.3 million acres available. There is 
plenty available if you want to do drilling. Even as we do that, how 
about helping us get rid of the speculation in the marketplace and 
restore this market to what it was intended to do. Do you choose to 
stand on the side, when somebody says whose side are you on? They say: 
Let us think about that. We are going to be on the side of the oil 
speculators. Really? Or I am going to be on the side of those who don't 
want us to become less dependent upon the Saudis. It is fine if $500 
billion, $600 billion or $700 billion a year is sent outside our 
country in pursuit of oil. That is OK. That will not weaken our 
country.

We all know better than that. We don't need an overnight epiphany to 
understand what is happening to our country. These relentless price 
increases and the unbelievable dependence we have on foreign sources of 
oil are injuring this country. Every consumer in this country is 
damaged almost every day. Which airline next will declare bankruptcy or 
liquidate? How many trucking companies aren't in business anymore? Ask 
farmers what it is going to cost when they try to fill their tanks with 
a load of fuel. Then can you conclude this doesn't matter? You cannot 
conclude that. We ought to be here debating what to do. It ought to be 
obvious. I have said before, if you are running the high hurdles, you 
have to decide to jump the first hurdle in front of you. The first 
hurdle, it seems to me, is to address this relentless speculation and 
put downward pressure on gas and oil, on prices.


Let me describe what our Energy Information Administration said. They 
said there is no question about speculation. The only way you can 
conclude this is not speculation is to look at this chart and not see 
it. On this chart, here is the price of oil. It is kind of like a Roman 
candle on the Fourth of July. Here is what our Energy Information 
Administration told us. We spend about $100 million a year for this 
agency, which has the best and the brightest, to evaluate supply and 
demand and come up with this. I put this chart together because I want 
everybody to see how wrong they have been and conclude why.

Take November of last year. They said this would happen to the price 
of oil. Then, in January of last year, they said the line will look 
like this. In March of this year, they said it is going to look like 
this. You can go back to May of last year, a year ago. Obviously, this 
isn't where the price went. It went up like this. Is that because the 
people estimating it were stupid, maybe didn't sleep well, didn't 
finish school, or had no common sense? That is not why. They didn't 
understand this is not about supply and demand any longer.

This is about a speculative binge that is driving up the price of oil 
in a manner that is completely disconnected


with supply and demand. I understand we have people talking about that, 
and I understand the world is changing. I understand the Chinese want 
to drive cars and people from India want to drive automobiles. I 
understand there will be maybe 300 million, 400 million, to 500 million 
more cars on the road 10, 20, 30 years from now. I understand that. But 
that hasn't changed significantly in the last 12 months. There is 
nothing that changed with the estimate of future demands in the last 12 
months that justifies this line.

That is why we bring a bill to the floor of the Senate that says 
let's at least agree, on a bipartisan basis, to do first things first. 
Then you say, well, we need to support drilling, conservation, energy 
efficiency, and more renewables. You bet your life--although, I would 
say many of those who have spoken on the other side are not quite so 
enthusiastic about the other side of energy that is renewables and 
conservation and energy efficiency.

We have many airlines in this country. Obviously, that industry is 
one of the heaviest users of jet fuel. We have had seven bankruptcies 
recently. They have said it means thousands less jobs. Normal market 
forces are being amplified by poorly regulated market speculation. The 
Nation needs to pull together to reform the oil markets and solve this 
growing problem. That is from the airline industry. You probably saw 
the newspaper yesterday--and this is not unusual--''Jet Fuel Costs Push 
Midwest Air to End Flights to 11 Cities.'' It is happening across the 
country. I would understand this if, in fact, this was a circumstance 
where supply and demand had changed in a radical way, and we would 
decide in this country that, you know what, we have to confront supply 
and demand. We have to do that in the longer term. But that is not what 
this is about.

I said earlier today, in my judgment, the drill now--and I am for 
drilling now, so let me be clear--the drill now mantra is a yesterday 
forever strategy. It is good that every 10 years they come to the floor 
and say the solution to our energy issues is to drill now. If yesterday 
forever is comfortable for you, good for you. I don't think it is a 
good policy. I think we need to use this circumstance at this 
intersection and say we are going to fundamentally change America's 
energy future. We can do that. John F. Kennedy didn't wake up one day 
and say: I am going to give a speech and say I think America is going 
to put a person on the Moon, or I hope that perhaps someday we can put 
a person on the Moon. He could have said we are going to try to see if 
we can get someone to walk on the Moon. That is not what he said. John 
F. Kennedy said:




 By the end of this decade, we are going to have a man 


 walking on the Moon.


He just declared it. That is our goal, what we are going to do. This 
would be an awfully important intersection for us to decide, after we 
take care of this excessive speculation to set the market right, that 
we should do a lot of things--and conservation is the cheapest and most 
obvious option. The other thing we ought to do is do some change. We 
ought to decide that in the next 10 years we are heading toward 
hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. Maybe between now and then, we will move 
quickly toward electric-drive vehicles. We are going to have a 
completely different future with substantial new wind energy, solar 
energy, and geothermal energy development. We are going to build a 
superhighway transmission system, just as President Dwight Eisenhower 
did with the interstate system. That way we can use the wind belt from 
Texas to North Dakota and the Sunbelt across the Southwest can displace 
significant portions that we currently get from fossil fuels for 
electricity. We can do all of that, but only if we start pulling 
together as a country.


I have watched this debate this afternoon. It is the most 
disappointing debate because we have people coming to the floor of the 
Senate who are the ''just say no'' crowd. Just say no. No matter the 
question, just say no and then develop some little narrative that 
allows you to say no and make people think you are saying yes.

How about this issue? The market is broken. It has resulted in the 
doubling of oil and gas prices in the past year, and there is no 
justification in fundamentals of supply and demand to make that happen. 
How about having us pull together and say: Let's fix the broken market 
and put downward pressure on oil and gas prices. Don't use something 
else as an excuse. When you talk about something else, I am going to 
say: I am with you on that; I think we ought to do a lot of everything. 
Don't use that as an excuse to do nothing here, but let's at least do 
first things first.

There is plenty of reason for the American people to be disappointed 
in what they hear from their Government. It is so frustrating to be 
here and understand what needs to be done and yet does not get done 
because we have people who believe they were born to be a set of human 
brake pads and stop everything at all times.

On a number of occasions, I have described on the floor what we have 
done. Think for a moment. We split the atom. We spliced genes. We 
cloned animals. We invented plastics. We invented radar. We invented 
the silicone chip. We invented the telephone, the computer, and 
television. We decided to build an airplane and learn to fly it. We 
build rockets. We walked on the Moon. We cured smallpox. We cured 
polio.

It is unbelievable what this country accomplishes. Yet, somehow we 
decide what we should do is continue a strategy of being dependent, for 
60 or 70 percent of the oil we need to run America's economy, certain 
oil producing countries like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, and Venezuela. 
I am sorry, I think that policy is nuts.

This country needs to mobilize and pull together. This is not about 
Republicans or Democrats. It is about a game-changing strategy that 
says: Here is where we have been, and right now, we can't go there in 
the future. We need a different kind of energy future.

My point is just to do first things first. The first thing on the 
floor of the Senate is about speculation. Mr. President, 47 Members of 
the other side have indicated in one form or another, through one 
comment or another, in their home state or here in the Senate, that 
speculation is a part of the problem. If that is true, and I believe 
every Member on this side of the Chamber believes that, that ought to 
add up to 97 Senators. I don't know who the three others are who 
apparently have not voiced an opinion, but we ought to be able to pass 
legislation that fixes a broken futures market.

Just as quickly, we ought to be able to agree on a wide range of 
other issues. Yes, we should include some drilling in areas that are 
open and not being drilled on. We should also look more aggressively at 
conservation and energy efficiency and make a dramatic change to 
renewable energy in the longer term. We ought to be able to do that. 
The American people should expect that of us, and we ought to be able 
to meet that expectation.

I know others are going to come to speak this evening.

Just so the American people understand, we agreed to a cloture motion 
on a motion to proceed. That means we voted to shut off debate, not on 
this legislation but on whether we should proceed to the legislation. 
So we had that vote, and now the minority is saying to us: No, you 
cannot proceed to the bill; you need to speak for 30 hours.

There is a 30-hour requirement. Usually, it is waived back, but in 
recent times, on everything, it has been required. So now, for the next 
30 hours, we will have people obfuscate; thumb their suspenders; wear 
blue suits on the Senate floor; and talk about this, that, and the 
other. We are not making progress because the minority is saying we 
have to spend 30 hours before we can even get to the bill of which I 
have been speaking. It is an unbelievable procedure. In most cases, 
cooperation would simply suggest that we work together. Unfortunately, 
there is a big, growing problem that is hurting this country. Yet if we 
work together and find a way to fix it, then it makes a lot of sense to 
me.

I am someone who is respectful of other opinions, but in this case, I 
think there is a mountain of evidence that should lead us to fix this 
market and put some downward pressure on oil and gas prices. Following 
that, we can, in a matter of days, it seems to me, work on a wide range 
of other issues that deal with all of the issues I just described. We 
can put America in a much better place if we decide to do that.



Mr. President, I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum.