# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `08eb62983a905c5611303b3ff6f8934f`
`Mr. INOUYE â€” 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I rise to speak against the Thune 
amendment. There are a number of reasons the Thune amendment is a bad 
idea. A 5-percent cut across the board may seem reasonable, small, and 
not a big cut. But it is a devastating cut when Members understand the 
specific programmatic impact. A 5-percent cut against non-national 
security accounts would be about $20 billion below the current fiscal 
year spending level. This cut would be in addition to the current CR 
level which is $18 billion below the Sessions amendments offered 
earlier this year.

I remind my colleagues that we have a $5 billion problem outside of 
all this cutting in terms of addressing the Pell grants shortfall. I 
believe the vast majority of my colleagues are in favor of the Pell 
grants. I can assure them that the Pell grant problem is not going to 
magically cure itself.

Members may try and hide from taking responsibility for the 
devastating impacts of a generic across-the-board cut of this 
magnitude, but I am standing before my colleagues now and putting 
everyone in this Chamber on notice for what the actual impact of 
passing this amendment will be.

For starters, let me discuss America's security outside of the 
Department of Homeland Security and outside of the department that 
handles the southwest border. Cutting funding by 5 percent would mean a 
loss of $1.5 billion for the Department of Justice. It is not part of 
Homeland Security and not part of the Defense Department. The FBI's 
uniform crime report that was just released tells us that violent crime 
is down 5.3 percent, a decrease for the third year in a row, and a 
total 9 percent drop since 2006. Now is not the time to cut resources 
for Federal, State, and local law enforcement partners. We depend on 
Federal law enforcement to protect Americans from terrorism and violent 
crime and uphold the rule of law.

Cutting Federal law enforcement by 5 percent across the board would 
mean 1,650 fewer FBI agents to combat terrorist threats, 420 fewer DEA 
agents to reduce the flow of drugs across the U.S.-Mexican border, and 
over 2,000 fewer Federal correctional officers to safeguard our 
prisons.

In addition to the cuts to the Department of Justice, this amendment 
would reduce funding for the Treasury Department's Office of Terrorism 
and Financial Intelligence and Financial Crimes Enforcement Network by 
$8.8 billion. Cuts of this magnitude would cripple the Treasury 
Department's unique efforts to keep our country safe.

Specifically, the Office of Foreign Assets Control would be forced to 
cut staff who enforce the Iran and North Korea sanctions programs and 
sanctions efforts aimed at al-Qaida and its affiliates, terrorist 
groups in Afghanistan, international drug traffickers, and other 
national security threats.

The Treasury Department's Office of Intelligence and Analysis would 
be forced to cut staff who work to locate hidden funding sources of 
terrorist networks. Finally, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network 
would significantly reduce overseas staff who work with foreign 
government counterparts in support of law enforcement efforts, 
investigations that protect Americans.

In terms of our consumers and our small business owners, cutting the 
budget of the CFTC and the SEC by 5 percent would erode their ability 
to conduct necessary oversight of the futures and securities markets, 
respectively, at a time when such scrutiny is paramount. Such a move is 
simply irresponsible, given the Wall Street scandals that led to the 
financial meltdown and economic strife plaguing so many American 
households.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle objected to funding any 
anomalies that would have allowed these agencies to increase staffing 
during the pendency of the continuing resolution to implement the Dodd-
Frank requirements. To insist on a further cut in light of these new 
requirements is not responsible. For the CFTC, a rollback would 
diminish aggressive efforts in the past 18 months to enhance previously 
decimated staffing levels which would not have been adequate to keep 
pace with the growing markets the agency oversees.

The SEC would suffer similar erosion of critical seasoned 
professionals. During the past 2 years, efforts have been made to 
restore staffing shortages. This amendment will force these staff to be 
furloughed, which would undermine the significant strides to become a 
more aggressive and vigilant protector of American investors.

Funding for the Small Business Administration would be cut at a 
critical point in the Nation's economic recovery, severely diminishing 
the agency's ability to implement the Small Business Jobs and Credit 
Act recently signed into law. Such a cut would hamper the ability of 
the Small Business Administration to provide counseling services to 
small businesses at a time when they need it most.



Cuts to Small Business Development Centers, microloan technical 
assistance, SCORE, and the Women's Business Centers would be a blow to 
SBA's ability to assist citizens trying to start, sustain, or grow 
their small businesses.

In terms of public safety, the FAA faces challenges in maintaining an 
adequate workforce of trained air traffic controllers. Funding the FAA 
at 5 percent below the fiscal year 2010 level would force it to absorb 
almost $500 million in cost-of-living and inflation expenses. Since 75 
percent of the FAA's operation budget is payroll, the FAA would need to 
implement a hiring freeze, thereby reducing its air traffic controller 
and inspector workforces, increasing flight delays, and curbing air 
travel at many airports.

When it comes to NASA, this amendment would require $936 million less 
in funding. I have heard from many Members concerned about job losses 
at NASA facilities in their States. I can assure you, the level of 
funding that will result from this amendment will only expedite these 
losses.

Specifically, this random across-the-board cut will jeopardize 
scientific discovery as well as the development of a new heavy-lift 
launch vehicle and space capsule, costing thousands of high-tech, high-
skill jobs in States such as Alabama, Florida, Texas, and Colorado. The 
United States would abandon the high ground of space to Russia, China, 
and Europe, sacrificing our leadership.

In terms of environmental funding, this amendment would require a 
$174 million cut to EPA's Clean Water and Drinking Water State 
Revolving Funds. That means 58 fewer sewer and water projects in our 
communities to ensure clean and safe water.

It would also require a $302 million cut to the basic operating 
accounts at the National Park Service, the Forest Service, the Fish & 
Wildlife Service, and the Bureau of Land Management. That means 
approximately 2,000 fewer Park Rangers, Forest Rangers, refuge 
managers, and BLM managers.

The 5-percent cut proposed in this amendment would require the 
National Park Service to furlough virtually all of the seasonal 
employees that would result in the closing of many National Park 
facilities. Further, it would cut energy efficiency and renewable 
energy programs by over $145 million, stopping in its tracks evolving 
R&D on solar energy and electric vehicles. That is what we have been 
talking about here: alternative energy sources. It would cut the 
nuclear energy R&D program by $51 million, hampering the nuclear 
renaissance, and simultaneously it would hamper the cleanup of our 
nuclear weapon and civilian nuclear sites by cutting $366 million from 
those programs. This action calls into question our ability to 
undertake new weapon and civilian nuclear activities if we cannot deal 
with the back end of the programs.

In terms of our senior citizens, the most vulnerable in our society, 
this amendment requires a cut of $40 million to senior nutrition 
services at the Administration on Aging, which translates into a 
reduction of 13 million senior meals.

It also requires a cut of $922 million from the fiscal year 2010 
operating level for the Social Security Administration. This would 
force the Social Security Administration to furlough employees and 
severely increase the waiting times for everyone with a disability 
claim, retirement claim, or disability appeal.

In the last 3 years, the number of disability claims SSA has received 
has increased 30 percent, the number of disability hearings has 
increased 20 percent, and the number of retirement claims has increased 
13 percent. By the end of the year, this cut would leave 900,000 more 
Americans waiting on a determination of their disability claim, almost 
doubling the current backlog, and 150,000 more waiting on an appeal of 
their disability case. This would also drastically limit program 
integrity efforts that save $7 for every $1 spent.

Section 8 tenant-based rental assistance, which helps the Nation's 
most vulnerable individuals and families find and maintain safe and 
affordable housing in the private market, would be cut by $816 million, 
which would put as many as 85,000 of our country's low-income families, 
elderly, and disabled at risk of losing their housing.

Mr. President, I would like to submit for the Record a more 
comprehensive list of programs that will be severely impacted by this 
amendment. There are too many important programs being impacted by this 
amendment and not enough time to discuss them all.

I ask unanimous consent that list be printed in the Record.