# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `09894430404f074ce2897300e45c488e`
`Mr. SANDERS â€” 5 February 2008`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, let me concur with Senator Reid. The 
American people want us to begin to get work done for them. It is high 
time we did that.

I also congratulate the Senator from North Dakota and share his 
concerns about many of the points he made, not the least of which, if 
we are going to spend hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars on 
this war in Iraq, that bill should not be left to our children and our 
grandchildren. We should at least have the decency to pay for that 
ourselves.

Mr. President, I wish to say a few words this afternoon about the 
budget President Bush brought before us yesterday and tell you I was 
extremely dismayed by what was in that budget and what was not in that 
budget. Frankly, in my view, this budget is unconscionable, and it 
reflects priorities that are hard to imagine and are way out of step 
with what ordinary Americans feel and believe.

While providing hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks for the 
wealthiest people in our country--the wealthiest three-tenths of 1 
percent--over the next decade, the President, at the same time, has 
proposed major cuts in health care, in low-income heating assistance, 
in weatherization, in nutrition, in housing programs, and in other 
basic needs of low- and moderate-income Americans. That is a set of 
values which I think reflect badly on the White House and does not 
reflect the values of the American people.

In my view, this is a Robin Hood-in-reverse budget. This is a budget 
which takes from the poor to give to the rich. This is a budget which 
cuts programming for those most in need and gives billions of dollars 
in tax breaks for those least in need. This proposed budget simply 
tells us--again, if we didn't need this reminder--just how out of touch 
this administration is with the needs of working Americans.

Let me be very clear. I am a member of the Budget Committee, and I 
intend to do everything I can to make sure that President Bush's budget 
is rejected and that we bring forth in the Senate a new budget that 
reflects the priorities of the vast majority of the people in our 
country and not just the wealthy few.

Most Americans understand that our health care system is 
disintegrating. Everybody knows that. Since President Bush has been in 
office, 8.5 million Americans have lost their health insurance, 47 
million Americans are now uninsured, and the cost of health care is 
soaring. How does President Bush respond to the growing crisis in 
health care? Well, it is an unusual response: He slashes funding for 
Medicare. He slashes funds for Medicaid. He cuts rural health care 
programs. In other words, he is making a bad situation even worse.

As I have said, Mr. President, we are living in a period where our 
health care system is disintegrating. More and more people lack health 
insurance. The costs are soaring, premiums are going up, copayments are 
going up, and deductibles are going up. The President's response to 
this crisis is to savagely cut Medicare, Medicaid, rural health care 
programs, and other health care programs. What logic is there in making 
a bad situation even worse? But it is not just health care.

I understand that it would be asking too much for this President to 
take on the insurance companies and take on the drug companies and move 
us toward a national health care program, which every other major 
country on Earth has. We are the only country in the industrialized 
world that doesn't guarantee health care to all people. I understand 
the President is not going to do that, but at the very least, he should 
not be adding more people to the rolls of the uninsured. At the very 
least, at a time when we have some 17,000 Americans who are dying every 
year because they lack health insurance, he need not make a terrible 
situation even worse.

In the State of Vermont and throughout many parts of our country, we 
have experienced extremely cold weather this winter. There are parts of 
America where we have seen 20-below-zero weather. At the same time, the 
price of home heating oil is soaring. In fact, it has more than doubled 
since President Bush has been in office. The result is that the LIHEAP 
program, Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which keeps 
millions of seniors and lower income households warm in the winter, is 
stretched to the breaking point. The simple truth is that when home 
heating costs soar, either States will cut back per person or they will 
deny large numbers of people any heating oil at all. That is the 
reality the States face.

I understand President Bush has no problem with the fact that his 
friends at ExxonMobil have just announced the largest profits in the 
history of the world for the third consecutive year--over $40 billion 
in profits in 2007. I know he has no problem with that. I know he has 
no great problem with the fact that home heating oil prices are now at 
over $3.30 a gallon. I know he is not worried about the fact that a few 
years ago, the former CEO of ExxonMobil, Mr. Raymond, received a $400 
million retirement package from that company. From President Bush's 
perspective and ideology, I suppose those are good things.

Despite the President's lack of concern about rising fuel costs, it 
really is beyond comprehension that he would slash the LIHEAP program 
by $570 million in his budget--a 22-percent reduction from last year. 
Imagine that. The cost of home heating oil is soaring, LIHEAP is under 
great strain and it cannot do what it did last year for lack of 
funding, and President Bush's response is: Let's cut another half-
billion dollars from LIHEAP.

What are people supposed to do next year under Bush's budget when the 
weather gets cold? What do old people who are living on Social Security 
and cannot afford the outrageously high prices for home heating oil do? 
Do they freeze to death? Do they move in with their kids? How many 
blankets do they have to throw on themselves? How do you treat old 
people when it gets cold? You don't slash LIHEAP by $570 million. That 
is pretty cruel.

At a time when millions of low-income seniors are struggling to 
survive on inadequate Social Security benefits, this President, in his 
budget, wants to cut back on nutrition programs for low-income seniors, 
in addition to cutting back on senior housing.

There is a program which, in Vermont, works very well--the Commodity 
Supplemental Food Program. It provides a free package of groceries 
every month to low-income seniors. People all over the country utilize 
this program. They need this program. The President may not know this, 
but hunger is on the upsurge in America. In this great country, more 
and more fellow citizens are going hungry. What we are seeing is 
emergency food shelves not having enough food to feed desperate people 
all over America. And the President's response to this crisis is to cut 
back or eliminate the Commodity Supplemental Food Program. What is the 
moral justification for doing that? I don't know.

I am a member of the Veterans' Committee, and I am proud that last 
year, against opposition from the White House, we substantially 
increased funding for the VA and are providing billions more so that 
veterans can gain access to quality care in VA hospitals and clinics. 
Despite all of his rhetoric about how much he loves and respects the 
troops, this President, in his budget, has proposed a very large 
increase in health care fees for veterans who access VA facilities. The 
increases would range from $250 to $750. What is the goal there? It is 
very clear. The goal is to drive veterans--low-income veterans--out of 
the VA system so the VA can save money. Thank you very much, Mr. 
President.

A week ago, the President, in his State of the Union Address, was 
telling us how much he loved and respected the veterans. Now he is 
raising fees for VA health care with the explicit goal of driving 
veterans out of the VA health care system. That is wrong but, frankly, 
it is consistent with what President Bush did some years ago when he 
completely eliminated access to the VA for so-called category 8 
veterans, who were too wealthy. These were veterans who didn't have 
service-connected disabilities, were not wounded, but had incomes of 
over $27,000 a year. They were too wealthy to access VA health care.

Well, I say to President Bush, at a time when tens of thousands of 
our soldiers have been wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan, please do not 
balance


your budget on the backs of our veterans.

Since George W. Bush has been in office, we have seen recordbreaking 
deficits, and our national debt is now $9.2 trillion--$3 trillion more 
than when he came into office.

All of us in Congress want to move this country toward a balanced 
budget and to make sure our kids and grandchildren are not left with 
this enormous debt Bush has accumulated. But there are right ways to 
move us toward a balanced budget and there are wrong ways to do it and 
George W. Bush's budget moves us exactly in the wrong direction.

As many Americans know, since President Bush has been in office, the 
middle class has been decimated, poverty has increased, and the gap 
between the very wealthiest people in our society and everyone else has 
grown wider. In fact--and we do not talk about this terribly much, 
although we should be talking about it--the United States today has by 
far the most unequal distribution of wealth and income of any major 
country on Earth. In fact, our distribution of wealth and income is 
increasingly looking like Mexico, it is looking like Brazil, it is 
looking like those poor developing countries and certainly not looking 
like Europe, Scandinavia, Canada or other industrialized nations.

Mr. President, as you are more than aware, there are a lot of facts 
and figures that are thrown out on the floor of the Senate, but let me 
mention one statistic that I hope all Americans will pay attention to 
and to which I hope my colleagues in the Senate will pay attention. And 
that is, according to the latest available statistics, the wealthiest 
300,000 Americans--men, women, and children--300,000 take in more 
income than the bottom 150 million. In other words, the upper one-tenth 
of 1 percent, 300,000, people earn more income than do the bottom 50 
percent. One-tenth of 1 percent, 50 percent, more income for the top 
one-tenth of 1 percent. In my view, that is not what America is 
supposed to be about, but that is the direction in which we are moving. 
That gap between the people on top, a handful of people, and everybody 
else is getting wider and wider.

For those people who live in the bottom 90 percent of the population, 
the overwhelming majority of our people, their average income was 
$33,000 way back in 1973 before globalization, before computers, before 
a huge increase in worker productivity. Thirty-five years have come and 
gone, and today, inflation accounted for dollars, that average income 
has declined from $33,000 to $29,000. That is a $75-a-week pay cut. 
That is called the collapse of the middle class: people working longer 
hours, they are making lower wages. That is the reality facing tens of 
millions of our fellow citizens.

That explains to my mind why in yesterday's Washington Post a front 
page story was headlined: ''U.S. Concern Over Economy is Highest in 
Years.'' It doesn't take a genius to figure that out. People go to the 
gas pump and pay $3.15 for a gallon of gas. They go to work and the 
boss says: Sorry, you no longer have health insurance. Oh, I can't 
afford to pay my mortgage; I am losing my house. Oh, too bad, 3 million 
Americans lost their pensions last year.

In area after area, in almost every aspect of middle-class life, 
people are getting hit. Then when they go to the grocery store and have 
to use their credit card to buy their groceries because they don't have 
the cash available, they find they are paying 28 percent in interest 
rates so Wall Street can become wealthier. That is what is going on, 
and that is why the American people are outraged about what is going on 
in terms of the middle class.

I have to tell you I find it literally beyond belief that with 
poverty in America increasing, with the middle class shrinking and with 
the wealthiest people in our country having it better than at any time 
since the late 1920s--incomes are soaring for millionaires and 
billionaires, a huge growth in the number of millionaires and 
billionaires--in the middle of all that, what President Bush is saying 
is he wants to repeal the estate tax which would provide $1 trillion in 
tax relief to whom? To the top three-tenths of 1 percent; $1 trillion 
going to the top three-tenths of 1 percent. That is what this budget, 
this Robin-Hood-in-reverse budget is all about.

If you are old and you are having a difficult time heating your home, 
President Bush is going to cut the program that keeps you warm. If you 
are low income or a working person in need of health care, President 
Bush wants to cut the programs that help you. If you are a veteran who 
has put your life on the line defending this country, the President 
wants to make it harder for you to access VA health care by 
substantially increasing your fees. If you are a low-income person in a 
home which lacks insulation and you are spending all kinds of money 
trying to keep your house warm, the President wants to completely cut 
back and eliminate the weatherization program. That is the bad news. 
But if you are a billionaire, if you are one of the wealthiest families 
in America, in this very same budget, the President wants to give you 
huge tax breaks. Cutbacks for those in need; tax breaks for 
billionaires.

Let me give one example. If the estate tax is completely repealed, as 
President Bush wants that to take place, one family, the Walton family, 
which owns Wal-Mart, which is worth about $82 billion, that one family 
will receive over $30 billion in tax relief.

We hear on this Senate floor a lot about morality, right? We hear a 
lot about values. I want to know what kind of moral values there are 
when there are some people, including the President, who would give one 
family, an enormously wealthy family, a multibillion-dollar family, $30 
billion in tax breaks and then cut back on the needs of millions and 
millions of low-income and working families? What kind of moral values 
does that speak to?

We have a lot of work in front of us. We have to completely rewrite 
President Bush's budget. We need to work hard so the people of our 
country once again begin to have faith in their Government, that they 
know those of us who are elected are prepared to stand with them rather 
than the millionaires and the billionaires and their lobbyists who have 
so much power over this institution.

We need, for a start, to reject the President's budget, rewrite that 
budget so it works for ordinary people. We need to pass a stimulus 
package which represents the needs of our seniors, our veterans, the 
middle class, working people. We need to do that now, and we need to 
build on that. Not only do we need to reject the President's disastrous 
budget, but more importantly, we need to reclaim the faith of the 
American people. Mr. President, I look forward to working with you to 
do that.