# ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `0a444295303f3a605e77732df97387bf`
`Mr. BOEHNER â€” 20 June 2007`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. I appreciate my colleague for yielding and I appreciate 
the work he is doing bringing this amendment to the floor.

I came to Washington 17 years ago because I thought government was 
too big, I thought it spent too much and didn't think that it was being 
held accountable. And the reason I am here this afternoon on this bill 
is because this amendment offered by Mr. Wilson and Mr. Campbell will 
reduce the overall spending level in this bill to the President's 
request.

The President submitted a budget back in January that said we can 
balance the budget over the next 5 years without raising taxes. But to 
do that, it's dependent upon us holding the line on spending. Even at 
the President's level, there is an increase over last year, and I 
believe that bringing the level of spending down in this bill to what 
the President requested puts this bill in a position to actually move 
through the process and become law.

If you looked over the course of this year, our friends on the other 
side of the aisle have a budget that will balance over the next 5 
years, but with the largest tax increase in American history. If we 
want to review the bidding on spending here in Washington this year, 
you go back to February with a CR that was some $6 billion over the 
President's request. And then we can look at the supplemental spending 
bill for Iraq and Katrina and other things that was $17 billion over 
the President's request. And now if we look at the appropriations 
process that we're in the midst of, we have an additional $20 billion 
over and above where the President is.

At the end of the day, the American people want to keep more of the 
money that they earn and want to send less of that money here to 
Washington. And I think to the extent we can hold the line on spending, 
we're protecting the taxpayers, protecting their wallets.

I think this is a modest amendment that reduces the spending in this 
bill by some $1.13 billion, it's the right move, and our colleagues 
ought to support the amendment.