# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `0b2a8fef54acafce26792b3f42dccbe5`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I thank the senior Senator from Rhode 
Island for allowing me to go ahead of him to deliver some remarks on 
the general Department of Defense authorization bill. Senator Reed has 
not only been a strong supporter of our military, but he has an 
understanding that is unique for somebody who is a West Point graduate. 
As we move forward with this debate on Iraq, his understanding of Iraq 
is second to none, given the fact that he has been with this issue from 
the beginning. He has made 10 trips into Iraq to understand the 
situation on the ground. We very much look forward to his continuing 
leadership and contribution to the debate.

Today, I rise because I want to praise the work of Chairman Levin, 
Senator Warner, Senator McCain, Senator Reed, Senator Nelson, and the 
members of the Armed Services Committee for developing a very good, 
excellent product for us to consider in the Department of Defense 
authorization bill.

As the Senate debates this week on the keystone issue of our time 
with respect to U.S. involvement in Iraq, we must not lose sight of the 
importance of maintaining a strong national defense. That strong 
national defense is what is at the heart of the 2008 Department of 
Defense Authorization Act.

The bill is a strong statement of support for our men and women in 
uniform. It gives our military the tools it needs to confront an 
increasingly complex and dynamic set of threats that we face around the 
world. It is a bill that will help assure our military remains the best 
equipped, the best trained, and the best led fighting force in the 
world. Today, our men and women in uniform are serving honorably around 
the world. In the mountains of Afghanistan, they are tracking and 
killing al-Qaida and resurgent Taliban operatives who are resisting the 
move toward democracy. In Iraq, they are confronting the monumental 
task of stabilizing and rebuilding a country that is caught in the 
middle of sectarian violence and a spiraling, what many of us have 
concluded is an intractable civil war. In the horn of Africa, in the 
Balkans, and elsewhere, they are looking to bring peace, hope, and 
security to those war-torn areas of the world.

I am immensely proud of the work of our troops both abroad and at 
home, for our National Guard, Reserve, and Active-Duty troops protect 
our homeland and help us respond to the threats of hurricanes, fires, 
and floods. I know all my colleagues share the appreciation I have for 
the work of our military, and I know this shared appreciation gives us 
much common ground from which to work. We all agree that our military 
must remain the strongest and best equipped in the world, that our 
Nation's defense is the Federal Government's top priority, and that our 
military families and our veterans deserve the best our Nation can 
provide. Because we agree on these principles, this bill rests on a 
solid, bipartisan foundation, and it is a bill we


must pass in Congress and let it be signed by the President. 
Unfortunately, in the press you won't hear much about many of the 
provisions that are in this bill, and we won't hear much about where we 
do see eye to eye and what we have a consensus on with respect to the 
DOD bill. You probably won't hear much about how we agree we need to 
expand our military, that our troops need to have more MRAPs, Strykers, 
and other equipment in the field immediately; that more resources are 
needed to protect our troops from IEDs; that our assets in space are 
too vulnerable to disruption or attack; that we need to continue to 
bolster our military warning and defense system, and so on. We won't 
hear much of that in the debate here in the week ahead.


But the fact is this bill comes to us at a critical time in our 
Nation and it is one of the largest steps this body has ever taken 
toward strengthening our defense, refurbishing our military--which is 
under so much strain in these times--and making good on our promises to 
care for our military families and our veterans.

I want to briefly illustrate the impact this bill will have by 
briefly describing how it will help our troops and their families in my 
State of Colorado. We in Colorado are proud to be the home of some of 
the crown jewels of our Nation's defense and homeland security. Fort 
Carson, Peterson Air Force Base, Buckley Air Force Base, Schriever Air 
Force Base, Cheyenne Mountain Air Station, and the Air Force Academy 
are all in my home State of Colorado, as are the headquarters for Air 
Force Space Command and Northern Command.

I have spent a lot of time at those bases meeting with our military 
leaders, and the commanders there are clear about their needs and their 
priorities. I am pleased to report to them that the Armed Services 
Committee, in the bill now being considered by this Chamber, has 
transferred many of their priorities into the bill and will make them a 
reality if we can get this bill signed by the President of the United 
States. Those priorities include: military construction, equipment, 
weapon systems, and health care--those things that are important to 
make our military strong.

The military construction authorization in this bill will help us 
keep on track with BRAC realignments and needed infrastructure 
improvements. At Fort Carson in Colorado we are in the midst of a very 
significant BRAC-directed expansion that will almost double the size of 
the Mountain Post. Two additional brigades are coming to Colorado 
Springs, and we are doing all we can as a community to welcome these 
soldiers and their families to Colorado.

The bill includes $470 million in authorization for military 
construction at Fort Carson, some of which will go to the construction 
of a new headquarters for the 4th Infantry Division and a new brigade 
complex for the 1st Brigade, and new barracks for our soldiers.

For the Colorado National Guard at Buckley Air Force Base in Denver, 
CO, we have added an authorization for $7.3 million for a squadron 
operations facility to replace an outdated structure that houses the F-
16s of the 140th Air Wing of the Colorado National Guard.

On the equipment side, this bill responds to the rapidly growing 
needs of the services to refurbish, replace, and modernize equipment 
that is being worn out in Iraq and Afghanistan. Recognizing that the 
President's request for equipment for our troops was not sufficient, 
this bill expands the authority for war-related procurement by over $12 
billion. I am particularly encouraged with the bill's inclusion of $4.1 
billion to fulfill the military services' unfunded requirements for 
MRAP vehicles, whose V-shaped hulls are proving invaluable in reducing 
casualties from IEDs. This builds on an effort Senator Biden led in 
March to include $1.5 billion in the emergency supplemental. Fort 
Carson soldiers told me how invaluable these MRAPs are, and this 
funding will see to it that we get more of those vehicles into the 
field as quickly as possible.

Mr. President, I see the majority leader on the floor, and I would be 
happy to yield to him, if he so chooses.