# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `0bcb82388f798fff67ac251dad6d55ff`
`Mr. BAIRD â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, no votes in Congress are more wrenching or 
difficult than those involving war; whether that vote involves 
initiating combat, or in this instance, steps to bring about the end. 
The consequences are profound, uncertainty about the right course is 
great, and there are strong feelings on all sides.

Every member of Congress is committed to the security of this Nation 
and to supporting our troops and their families. There are legitimate 
differences about how best to achieve those goals, but the core 
commitment to security and to support of our troops should not be 
doubted or questioned, regardless of where one stands on this matter.

Before the first vote authorizing force in Iraq in 2002, I asked 
fundamental questions of the President: 'What will the cost be in human 
casualties on all sides? What are the international and potential 
regional scenarios that might be developed? What is our long term 
strategy for the region?' I also asked about the economic costs to our 
Nation and the world, and about the likelihood of religious conflicts 
leaving our soldiers caught between warring religious factions with 
grievances that are centuries old. I asked what provisions had been 
made to care for the wounded and their families when they return? I 
called for greater commitment to resolving the Israeli/Palestinian 
issues and for reducing our Nation's dependence on petroleum. Finally, 
knowing well the history of the region, I asked how long our commitment 
was expected to last if hostilities were initiated.

Not one of these questions was answered by President Bush, Secretary 
Rumsfeld or any member of the administration. That is why I voted 
''no'' on that initial resolution. Sadly, the same questions remain 
today and they have still not been answered by the President, which is 
why I will vote ''yes'' on the bill before the House today.

For the sake of our Nation's security, for the safety or our troops, 
for the sake of our economy at home, for the sake of our international 
standing, we must say to the Iraqi leaders and to the world, 'We have 
removed a dictator from power, we have disarmed a tyrant, elections 
have been held, and a constitution is in place. We have shed the blood 
of our finest, we have indebted our children, we have tried to help 
rebuild infrastructure and put in place the basis of a democratic 
republic. Now, it is up to the Iraqi people themselves to find a 
political solution that is in everyone's interest and will lead to an 
end to the bloodshed.' Our Nation cannot and should not attempt to 
impose that solution indefinitely; it must come from the Iraqis 
themselves.

Today's bill says just that. It provides the necessary funds to 
continue to support our soldiers in the field. It adds much needed 
resources to ensure they receive care when they come home. It addresses 
needed priorities within our own Nation. And, most importantly, it says 
affirmatively, there will be an end to our role in combat in Iraq and 
it is time for our Nation, for the Iraqis, and for the world, to begin 
to prepare for that time. This cannot go on forever.

Those who talk about staying the course without end, as well as those 
who would call for opposing this bill because they want the war to end 
tomorrow, must all recognize that in the process of this conflict, our 
overall military readiness has been profoundly impaired and our Nation 
is now vulnerable should other, more severe, threats emerge elsewhere 
in the world. At the same time, our local preparedness of the National 
Guard is in tatters. Our Guard lacks key resources, equipment, and 
manpower to respond to fires, floods, or other disasters or to join in 
serious conflicts elsewhere if called upon to do so. This bill, quite 
rightly, seeks to correct these deficits.

The reality before us today is that we cannot immediately stop 
funding for our forces or neglect the readiness deficits that now 
endanger our Nation. That would be irresponsible and would leave our 
soldiers on the ground and our citizens at home and abroad in greater 
danger. It would also endanger the lives and hopes of the Iraqi people 
themselves and leave them vulnerable to extremists and chaos.

At the same time, however, it would be equally irresponsible to allow 
this hemorrhaging of blood and money, this neglect of our own Nation's 
needs here at home, to continue unchecked. This legislation changes the 
direction for our Nation and says the Iraqi's must change the direction 
of their Nation. They must take responsibility for their own security, 
share their oil wealth equitably with their own citizens, arid 
establish fundamental constitutional reforms. This bill requires that 
our President must certify that such things are being done.

Far from 'tying the hands' of the President, this legislation gives 
him much needed direction. If it becomes law, President Bush must at 
long last say that his own people, the American people, in the 
constitutional democratic republic that is our Nation, and that he is 
sworn to defend, have spoken through their representatives and have 
said it is time for change. It will soon be up to the Iraqi's 
themselves to determine the fate of their own Nation so that we can, at 
long last, may again determine the fate of ours.

If you care about the security of this Nation, vote ''yes'' to 
restore our military readiness. If you care about our soldiers, vote 
''yes'' to give them the equipment they need while deployed and the 
care they need when they return home. If you want to see an end to this 
conflict, vote ''yes'' to begin the process that will at last bring 
that about.