# RECOGNIZING THE STRONG ALLIANCE BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE  UNITED STATES
## `0bd6ebd8a546683fa90da104fd90ed34`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 11 June 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my 
strong support for H.R. 295, and, in doing so, I would first like to 
commend Mr. King for introducing this resolution. The relationship 
between the United States and the Republic of Korea has been a pivotal 
relationship in world affairs since our forces fought side by side in 
Korean War over a half century ago. Out of that conflict marked the 
divide between communist Asia and democratic Asia. The partnership 
between us and the Republic of Korea held the divide for decades, and 
together we helped maintain stable peace in East Asia.

In the post-Cold War world, the Republic of Korea has remained a 
steadfast U.S. ally. Its forces are deployed in Afghanistan and it has 
contributed troops and pledged reconstruction funds for Iraq. As a key 
member of the Six Party Talks to denuclearize North Korea, it shares an 
important responsibility for broader security in Northeast Asia. 
Together, we are committed absolutely to compelling the dangerous North 
Korean regime to eliminate its nuclear program.

Overall, South Korea is a key partner an ally in the challenge of 
combating terrorism worldwide. The combination of emerging terrorism 
threats and the North Korean challenge make this resolution 
particularly important today.

In the economic realm, too, the U.S. relationship with the Republic 
of Korea is one of our strongest in Asia. For example, the Republic of 
Korea was one of the original ''East Asian Tigers,'' and served as a 
model for other Asian countries with a booming economic growth in the 
1970s, 80s and 90s. Currently, South Korea is now the United States' 
7th largest trading partner in the world.

Mr. Speaker, I am extremely proud to stand as one of cosponsors of 
this legislation. This resolution honors the close alliance between the 
United States and the Republic of Korea, and recognizes South Korea's 
important contributions to fighting against terrorism around the world. 
It also welcomes the strengthening and deepening of the relationship 
between our two countries and our peoples. I thank all of my colleagues 
who have already signed on to this bill, and I urge those who have not 
to support this legislation.