# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `0ccdcb64685cf6f92c5d4f489a9a3443`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the Webb-
Hagel amendment. Both of our colleagues have served our country not 
only in the Senate but also in uniform, and they have done so 
honorably. So they speak from experience, and I, for one, do not 
question their sincerity of purpose. I do not know how every Member of 
the Senate will decide on how they will cast their vote, but I do not 
question their sincerity or the purpose of what they are driving at.

This is about preserving our troops, enhancing their ability, and in 
the long term being able to continue to enlist people who want to serve 
their country, who bear the overwhelming burden of the national 
security of the United States by a small percentage of the population. 
That is what I believe Senator Webb is doing, and that is why I join 
him strongly in support of his and Senator Hagel's amendment.

This amendment provides an important opportunity to recognize the 
courageous efforts of our men and women in uniform. This amendment 
provides a critical opportunity to ensure the care and safety of our 
troops--the care and safety of our troops--now, but I would argue not 
only now but for the long term. To those who believe this amendment is 
only about now, to change the current course of events, I believe the 
amendment has longstanding import now and for the long term. It sets 
our policy as to where we are going to be headed in the deployment of 
troops--the respites they need, the ability for us to sustain a 
voluntary Army under all of the circumstances.

This amendment provides a great opportunity for us in the Senate to 
ignore politics and work together on behalf of our troops. This 
amendment simply says that our troops should have at least--at least--
the same time at home as they spend deployed abroad. It ensures that no 
unit, including the National Guard, which is clearly citizen soldiers 
who have been asked to do far beyond what many of them thought they 
were ever going to be called upon to do on behalf of their Nation--they 
would get the same treatment.

This amendment simply says that after 4/1/2/ years of bravely 
fighting for our country, we must honor the sacrifice of the troops and 
their families. This amendment simply says we must make sure we are 
taking care--underline ''taking care''--of our troops. We believe we 
must protect our troops fighting in combat now, just as we must take 
care of our veterans when they return home from combat.

Let me be clear. I do not believe this amendment ties the hands of 
the administration in the case of a clear threat to our national 
security. Senator Webb has been responsive in providing a fair and 
reasonable waiver for the President, as well as a waiver for those 
individuals in service who want to volunteer to return early. If they 
want to return, if they feel they are ready to return, they will be 
able to do so and provide the continued leadership they have been 
providing. I am sure many may. But the bottom line is, there are many 
who may not feel they can do that. So, therefore, their ability to 
perform at the optimum is not being preserved under the present 
circumstances.

This amendment also responds to specific concerns raised by the 
Secretary of Defense and other military leaders. It allows the 
Department of Defense time for a transition period, for an 
implementation period that is well within the scope that is necessary. 
It also provides a specific exemption for special operations forces 
since the nature of their deployment schedule is much different.

So I think Senator Webb has listened and responded since the last 
time he offered this amendment, as has Senator Hagel.

Now, unfortunately, the war in Iraq has taken a terrible toll on our 
military. I am deeply concerned about our ground forces. I am deeply 
concerned about severe mental health issues, such as post-traumatic 
stress syndrome, which comes out of extended and repeated deployments. 
I am deeply concerned about our ability to retain experienced 
servicemembers and our ability to recruit new forces.

Clearly, if someone is looking at whether to be engaged, in addition 
to their great desire to serve their country, especially if they have 
family, they are going to be looking at: Well, how are these 
deployments taking place? Are they taking place in a way to respond to 
my desire to serve but also to be able to sustain my family? That is 
why we have to adopt this amendment. It is about now and the long term.

Some here have argued that Congress should not interfere. But the 
Founding Fathers put it right up there early in the Constitution. They 
did not wait for various later articles; they put it right up there in 
article I. Article I, section 8 of the Constitution is where they gave 
the Congress the right, the power ''to make Rules for the Government 
and Regulation of the land and naval Forces.''

I have heard other statutory references here, but none of those 
statutory references have the power to undermine the Constitution. The 
Constitution is supreme. It comes first above all other acts. So, 
therefore, the Founders understood how important it was for the 
Congress to have the role ''to make Rules for the Government and 
Regulation of the land and naval Forces,'' and they put it up early in 
the Constitution to make it very clear. Those who wish to ignore or 
reject that provision of the Constitution, in my mind, undermine the 
Constitution by doing so.

This President often acts as if the only role for the Congress is to 
provide a blank check for his failed war policy. I believe he is 
definitely wrong in believing that Congress's only role is to provide a 
blank check. That is not the role of the Congress. As a matter of fact, 
that would be an abdication of the duties and responsibilities of the 
Congress in its role under the Constitution. We have a fiduciary 
responsibility to the American people, both in national treasures and, 
most importantly, in lives. We have a responsibility to the men and 
women in uniform.

This amendment before us reflects the reality on the ground and the 
will of the American people, but most importantly the welfare of those 
sacrificing the most. I have heard a lot from our colleagues in the 
time I have been in the Senate, and before in the House, about 
supporting our troops. Well, we are providing here a plan to fully 
support our troops who volunteer to put their lives on the line for our 
country. Senator Webb has referred to the Military Officers 
Associations' unusual movement or action of supporting this amendment. 
I think we need to listen to those who serve, especially when they act 
out of the norm and say: We believe this is in the interests of those 
men and women who serve. And it comes from the association of those men 
and women who are actively engaged in serving. I have so often heard 
our colleagues say: Let's listen to those on the ground. Well, this is 
a reflection of those in boots in service. Our brave troops have 
answered the call of duty. Let us now answer the call to do what is 
right by them.



I urge all of our colleagues to support this amendment. It goes to 
the heart of how we truly honor those people who are serving our 
country, sacrificing for our country, and in my mind, when we talk 
about supporting the troops, making sure our long-term security can be 
preserved and enhanced goes to the very core of how we are going to 
treat them in their service. That is why I strongly support Senator 
Webb's and Senator Hagel's amendment, and I hope all of our colleagues 
will do so as well.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.