# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `0cfd4363d6549531b58eb92f30625e5b`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 16 May 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, in these dangerous times, we face 
terrorist threats around the world. The decisions we make here in the 
Senate must put us in a stronger position to fight and defeat 
terrorists wherever they hide. Just last week, the United States and 
German Governments unraveled the reported plot to attack American 
interests in Germany. This development reminds us that we face dangers 
all around the globe, and we need to be able to dispatch our resources 
wherever and whenever they are needed to keep us safe.

Unfortunately, having nearly 150,000 American troops stuck in the 
middle of a civil war in Iraq does not strengthen our ability to fight 
terrorists from around the globe. In fact, by forcing our troops to 
police a civil war and by not giving our troops the equipment and 
training they need, the President's current policy is impairing our 
military readiness and our ability to fight and win the broader war on 
terror. It is time to refocus our efforts back on to the broader war on 
terror. Yes, we will still fight and defeat the al-Qaida terrorists who 
are in Iraq. But we recognize that terror networks exist in many other 
countries, and we have to fight and defeat terrorists in those places 
as well.


That is why I supported the Feingold-Reid amendment this morning. 
That amendment recognizes that leaving our troops in the middle of a 
civil war in Iraq is not the best use of our military. It doesn't make 
us safer at home, it diminishes our ability to fight the broader war on 
terror, and it impairs our military readiness.

It is clear the Iraqi civil war cannot be solved militarily. It must 
be solved politically. Today we are 5 years into this war. Thousands of 
American lives have been lost, and billions of U.S. taxpayer dollars 
have been spent. Yet the Iraqis have not moved forward with meeting key 
benchmarks and beginning reconciliation. We have to show the Iraqis 
that we will not police their civil war indefinitely and that they must 
take responsibility for their own future. The redeployment language of 
the Feingold-Reid amendment from this morning makes it very clear to 
the Iraqis that our commitment is not open-ended and that they must 
make the necessary compromises to bring peace to their country.

In Iraq, our troops have done everything we have asked them to do. 
Now it is time to begin redeploying our troops, rebuilding our 
military, and getting back to fighting the war on terror.

As I look at these issues, I see four imperatives: First, we have to 
fight and defeat terrorists; second, we have to recognize the war in 
Iraq is impacting our ability to do that; third, we have to rebuild our 
military readiness, which has been seriously compromised by this war in 
Iraq. Finally, we have to be there to support our servicemembers, our 
veterans and their families, every step of the way.

First of all, we all recognize that we are in a war with terrorists 
around the world and we need to fight and win that war. This is not a 
war against countries. We are in a war against terrorists wherever they 
reside. President Bush wants us to believe the war in Iraq is the war 
on terror. It is not. The war on terror that our country faces is not 
the same thing as the civil war that is raging in Iraq. What is 
happening in Iraq is primarily a civil war between factions that have 
been in conflict for generations. The Feingold-Reid amendment empowers 
our military to target and destroy any terrorist elements in Iraq, but 
it would not force the majority of American troops to be stuck 
indefinitely in the crossfire of a civil war.

As we look at the terrorists our Nation confronts, al-Qaida is the 
most dangerous, according to the declassified National Intelligence 
Estimate from last year.

That NIE report said:




 Al-Qaida will continue to pose the greatest threat to the 


 homeland and U.S. interests abroad by a single terrorist 


 organization.


The NIE also said the jihadists ''are increasing in both number and 
geographic dispersion. If this trend continues, threats to U.S. 
interests at home and abroad will become more diverse, leading to 
increasing attacks worldwide.''

Al-Qaida is the threat. We have to get back to fighting al-Qaida, and 
that is what the Reid-Feingold amendment would allow.

Under that amendment, while most troops would be redeployed, some 
would remain to conduct targeted operations against al-Qaida and other 
terrorist groups. They would provide security for American 
infrastructure and personnel, and they would be allowed to train and 
equip the Iraqi security forces.

This administration's focus on Iraq has distracted us from the larger 
war on terror, and it has left us vulnerable. Our country faces 
possible threats from terrorists around the world, and we need a 
security strategy that ensures that we can fight those threats wherever 
they are. But, instead, the Bush administration has become increasingly 
focused on Iraq, which weakens our ability to fight that broader war on 
terror just when we must be strong.

Next, let's look at the relationship between the civil war in Iraq 
and our own security. Does having so much of our military tied up in 
Iraq's civil war make us safer? Does it help us fight terrorists around 
the world? The truth is, leaving our troops in Iraq is not making us 
more secure.

A State Department report from 2 weeks ago found:




 International intervention in Iraq has been used by 


 terrorists as a rallying cry for radicalization and extremist 


 activity that has contributed to the instability in 


 neighboring countries.


According to our own State Department, our involvement in Iraq is 
making the region less stable, not more stable. The war in Iraq has the 
potential to make it harder for us to respond to other threats around 
the world. That is because the conflict in Iraq is tying up large parts 
of our military and is degrading our military readiness, which brings 
me to my third point.

We must rebuild America's military. We can all be proud that our 
country is home to the finest fighting forces in the world. But we must 
also face the truth. The war in Iraq has impaired our military 
readiness, and that is not just my opinion, it is the opinion of 
military leaders and experts who say it may take us, now, 5 years to 
rebuild our military.

The Iraq war has impaired our readiness by forcing a hard-to-maintain 
tempo on our troops, by destroying our equipment, by reducing the 
capabilities of our Guard and Reserve, and by limiting the training 
that our troops receive. Today we are forcing a very tough tempo on our 
servicemembers. They all want to work, and they all want to work hard. 
But we have to


make sure the demands placed on them are reasonable. The Pentagon has 
extended tours of duty for our troops. It has deployed troops sooner 
than planned. It has sent troops without all the training and equipment 
they should receive. It has deployed troops without the downtime at 
home that our servicemembers and their families deserve.

Two Army brigades are on their fourth deployment now to Iraq and 
Afghanistan. That tremendous pace with little downtime in between is a 
strain on our troops. Our military is the best in the world. I believe 
we need to address those strains on our servicemembers so we can remain 
the best in the world.

The Iraq war is also impairing our readiness by destroying our 
equipment. The Army, for example, is supposed to have five brigades' 
worth of equipment prepositioned overseas, but because of the war in 
Iraq, the Army is depleting those reserves. GEN Peter Schoomaker told 
the Senate just last month:




 It will take us 2 years just to rebuild those stocks.


Our military is the best in the world. I believe we need to address 
the strains on equipment so we can remain the best in the world.

The Iraq war has especially impacted the readiness of our National 
Guard. The Chief of the National Guard Bureau, LTG Stephen Blum, 
testified that the readiness of National Guard forces is at a historic 
low. He said:




 Eighty-eight percent of the forces that are back here in 


 the United States are very poorly equipped today in the Army 


 National Guard.


A national commission looked at the National Guard and Reserve and 
sent its report to Congress last March, a few months ago. The 
commission said:




 We believe that the current posture and utilization of the 


 National Guard and Reserve as an ''operational reserve'' is 


 not sustainable over time, and if not corrected with 


 significant changes to law and policy, the reserve 


 component's ability to serve our Nation will diminish.


Our military is the best in the world. I believe we need to address 
the readiness of our Guard and Reserve so we can remain the best in the 
world.

We also rely on our Guard members when disaster strikes at home. We 
need their trained personnel and equipment to respond quickly. After 
the horrible tornadoes that occurred in Kansas just a few weeks ago, 
the Governor of Kansas said recovery efforts for those two States were 
hampered because there were not enough personnel and equipment. Where 
were those resources? In Iraq, not here at home.

COL Timothy Orr of the U.S. Army National Guard told the Senate that 
his brigade's homeland security capabilities have been degraded.

He testified to us:




 Our ability as a brigade to perform these homeland missions 


 continues to be degraded by continued equipment shortages, 


 substitutions, and the cross-leveling of equipment between 


 the State and the Nation to support our deploying units.


I have shown now how the Iraq war has impacted the readiness of our 
troops, of our equipment, and of our National Guard. The pace of 
deployment to Iraq is also hindering another measure of readiness--the 
training that our servicemembers receive.

To meet the President's surge, the Pentagon has been sending some 
troops to Iraq earlier than was planned, and they are keeping other 
units there in Iraq longer than planned. That means our troops are 
getting less time at home, less time between deployments, and 
importantly, less time to train. Commanders are forced to shorten the 
training their troops receive so they are focusing now only on specific 
training that they need for Iraq, but not for other potential 
conflicts.

That makes sense if there is limited training time. We want all that 
time devoted to their most immediate need. However, many military 
leaders are now warning us that this fast pace diminishes our ability 
to respond to other potential conflicts. Here is how the colonel who 
commands the First Marine Regiment put it:




 Our greatest challenge is and will remain available 


 training time, and because that time is limited, our training 


 will continue to focus on the specific mission in Iraq. This 


 has, and will continue to, limit our ability to train for 


 other operations.


Army COL Michael Beech told the Senate in April that he believes our 
training strategy is broad enough to support a variety of other events. 
But he added:




 However, if deployed in support of other emerging 


 contingencies, I would be concerned with the atrophy of some 


 specific tactical skills unique to higher-density conflicts.


We have military commanders telling us that they are concerned that 
our ability to train for other missions has been limited and certain 
tactical skills have atrophied. We don't know what the future of our 
world brings. We don't know what types of conflicts we will need to be 
prepared to fight. It is our responsibility, as leaders today, to be 
preparing for whatever the future brings for the next generation. By 
allowing our troops to only now be trained for today's mission, we are 
not meeting our responsibility for the long-term dangers our country 
must be prepared to defeat.

Our military is the best in the world. I believe we have to address 
these training shortfalls so we can remain the best in the world.

I am also concerned at the billions of dollars that we are spending 
in Iraq, coming at the expense of our ability to be strong at home. I 
am very concerned that the Bush administration has chosen to fund this 
war in ways that have meant that homeland security priorities at home 
have not been fully funded. I have worked very hard with my colleagues 
to try to correct that in areas such as port security grants and first 
responder funding. But it is not easy to overcome years of misplaced 
priorities from this administration.

Let me share with you some of the examples from this President's 
latest budget proposal. President Bush, in his budget proposal to us, 
dramatically cut funding for first responders to pay for the war in 
Iraq. His budget cut critical State homeland security grants by $348 
million, or about 60 percent, to pay for the war in Iraq. He reduced 
urban area grants by $185 million--that is a 25-percent reduction--to 
pay for the war in Iraq. He cut our local law enforcement terrorism 
prevention grants by $119 million. That is a cut of 33 percent at home 
to pay for the war in Iraq.

Mr. President, we know funds are limited, so we have to be smart. 
Policing a civil war in Iraq should not come at the expense of our 
security right here at home.

Finally, as we fight and win the war on terrorism and we rebuild our 
military, we have to be there every step of the way to support our 
servicemembers, our veterans, and, importantly, their families. We need 
to meet their needs every step of the way from the day they are 
recruited, while they are being trained, when they are deployed, and, 
importantly, when they transition back here at home.

Today, too many of our servicemembers are falling through the cracks 
and not getting the support they deserve. That is why I have been 
working on the Veterans' Affairs Committee and the Appropriations 
Committee to identify those needs, to fund them, and to have the 
appropriate policies so we support those men and women who have so 
strongly supported us.

At the end of the day, our security comes down to people, people 
doing a job this country has asked them to do. We have to keep our 
promise to them. We face terrorist threats around the world. We must 
and we will defeat them. But to do so, we have to be smart and we have 
to be tough.

Unfortunately, the civil war in Iraq is not making us more secure; it 
is making us less secure. We need to refocus our efforts back on the 
war on terrorism and we need to rebuild our military. I supported the 
Feingold-Reid amendment this morning because it sets a new direction 
for our involvement in Iraq so we can refocus on the larger security 
challenges our Nation faces.

This is what I am fighting for in the Senate. I know we can do it. We 
can take care of our men and women in uniform, we can improve security 
right here at home, we can track down and eliminate terrorists around 
the world. It is a matter of getting our priorities straight.

Redeploying our troops from Iraq so we can focus on those other 
priorities is a critical first step in the Senate we have to take.

I yield the floor.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sanders.) The Senator from Vermont.

