# None
## `0e85095248a624fa84087244ca43fb0b`
`Mr. YOUNG of Alaska â€” 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

First let me thank the chairman of the subcommittee, Mrs. Davis, for 
her fine work in bringing this legislation, and of course, Mr. Wittman, 
for your fine work. As a freshman, I deeply appreciate it. 
Congratulations on doing an effort for our National Guardsmen for 
Alaska.

Much has been said today, and I will not repeat that, about the 
Alaska National Guard, the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry, that went to 
Kuwait and Iraq and what they were able to do.

I would just like to mention one thing. The majority of these young 
people came from many areas of the State of Alaska, about 80 
communities in the State of Alaska. If you think about it a moment, 
going to Iraq, more so even Kuwait, and the change in temperature, that 
was a marvelous thing to witness when some of those people came back 
and told me it was not only hot, but also it was cold, which they're 
somewhat used to. But they went over without any complaints and 
returned, by the way, in body, all 586 members, back to Alaska. I have 
to say, this is what we call the ''citizens' army,'' the families they 
left behind, the families that welcomed them home.

We have to recognize the importance of the Alaska National Guard and 
the National Guard of the Nation and the role they play, a role much 
larger than ever expected to play by being deployed time and time 
again. I hope we do address that issue in the near future.

I also like to suggest that they did the work over in Iraq and Kuwait 
by receiving three Bronze Stars, 12 Meritorious Service Medals, 142 
Army commendations, and 200 Army Achievement Medals. So they did their 
job as they were over there.

I had the privilege of going to Camp Shelby in Mississippi when they 
got off the ship and came back to the United States soil and to speak 
to them there. As I told them then, I not only support the troops, I 
respect the troops and the jobs they did. They were charged as civilian 
soldiers to go overseas. They were charged to do a duty and they did it 
with great valor, and that I deeply respect them for.

I think this body must recognize the importance of the National 
Guard, not only in Alaska, but across this Nation, and continue to 
support the families and individuals themselves as they serve this 
great Nation.

This is a good piece of legislation in recognition of a great unit. I 
again thank the chairman and the subcommittee chairman and the ranking 
member. I do thank all of you, my colleagues, for supporting this 
resolution and supporting not only the Alaska National Guard, but the 
National Guard in total.

I rise today to honor the Alaska Army National Guard and the 586 
members of the Alaska Army National Guard's 3rd Battalion, 297th 
Infantry who returned in October from their year long deployment to 
southern Iraq and Kuwait, in the largest deployment of the Alaska 
National Guard since World War II.

The 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry was deployed from October 2006 to 
October 2007 and spent the year as security forces in northern Kuwait 
and southern Iraq since October 2006, successfully guarding camps and 
convoys heading into Iraq.

The guardsmen came from all over my State, with members of the unit 
hailing from 80 different communities across Alaska, including 
Anchorage, Fairbanks, Kodiak, Soldotna, Kenai, Nome and many Native 
villages. Thankfully, all 586 who deployed overseas were able to return 
safely to those communities.

Many of these Alaskans had never ventured Outside prior to 
mobilizing, and the climate in the Middle East could not be more 
different from that of Alaska, but not one hesitated to serve their 
country, even if it meant facing temperatures of 130 degrees.



They served with distinction as well, inspecting and searching over 
30,000 semi-trucks and designing all of the force protection plans for 
northern Kuwait. They were recognized for their service, earning 3 
Bronze Stars, 12 Meritorious Service Medals, 142 Army commendations and 
more than 200 Army Achievement Medals over the course of their 
deployment.

I was honored to be invited to their welcome home celebration at Camp 
Shelby in Mississippi this past October. I was humbled to spend time 
with them and, as I told the National Guardsmen at Camp Shelby, ''You 
can't support the troops unless you respect them. I humbly respect you 
because you have done your job as you were charged to do so, and as 
volunteers. You left your families and you went forth and accomplished 
what you were taught to do.''

I truly believe that the importance of the National Guard to our 
country cannot be overstated, which is why it is important that we 
honor these citizen-soldiers. We must not, however, forget the families 
of these citizen-soldiers, who make their own sacrifice for our country 
and earn nothing but the thanks of the Republic.

And so I respectfully urge the House to pass this resolution, to 
thank those citizen-soldiers from Alaska and to thank their families. 
It is the greatness of these citizens from which America derives its 
own and we would all do well to remember that.

Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle that cosponsored this resolution.