# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `115c49599a99c40339a619d95d623a24`
`Mr. REID â€” 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, when Harry Truman was President, he put a 
sign on his desk. It said: The buck stops here. He chose this message 
because it conveyed to the American public that, as President, Truman 
was responsible for everything in his administration. Everything.

The buck stops here. It is a phrase we should keep in mind as we vote 
on GEN George Casey's nomination to be Army Chief of Staff.

Despite his service to our country, I know many Senators would like 
to vote no on General Casey's nomination because he has been associated 
with a broken Iraq policy. I understand others would like to vote no in 
an attempt to make the general a scapegoat for a war that has gone 
horribly wrong. I believe there are still others who are using this 
nomination as a way to express opposition to the President's escalation 
proposal, a plan General Casey once opposed but now supports. While I 
understand these reasons for voting no, I am reminded of that sign on 
President Truman's desk. In Iraq, the buck stops with President Bush. 
The Commander in Chief, not General Casey, is responsible for the 
failed policy in Iraq.

Four years and running, the cost of the war has been staggering. We 
have lost, as of this morning, 3,111 of our soldiers and seen tens of 
thousands more wounded. The war has stretched our military and their 
families to the breaking point, depleted our Treasury of hundreds of 
billions of dollars, detracted our attention from al-Qaida and the real 
war on terror, and hurt our image in the Arab community and around the 
world. Yet despite all this sacrifice and all these costs and because 
of numerous errors by the Commander in Chief, America is less safe. We 
must change course.

Unfortunately, President Bush's answer to this growing chaos and 
sectarian violence in Iraq is not a new direction but more of the same. 
He wants to send 48,000 more troops to Baghdad and give them mission 
impossible--policing an Iraqi civil war.

This so-called surge policy has many critics, and one of them used to 
be General Casey. On January 2 of this year, the general is quoted as 
saying in the New York Times:




 It's always been my view that a heavy and sustained 


 American military presence was not going to solve the 


 problems in Iraq over the long term.


In other words, escalation is not the answer. But just a month later, 
in his Senate confirmation hearing, he reversed course, saying:




 The increase in the U.S. forces is a key piece of our new 


 strategy to secure Baghdad.


One day, escalation was not going to solve the problem; the next day, 
escalation was a key piece of our strategy. There is a troubling 
disconnect between General Casey's two statements. I understand he has 
since attempted to explain his change of heart by noting, in the time 
between his two comments, that a new strategy, the so-called surge, had 
been propounded by the White House and more troops were needed to 
institute the President's new policy. But does General Casey really 
believe this? Do we believe a general on the battlefield or in his 
plush Pentagon office? I will take General Casey at his word. After 
all, the buck stops with the President, not with General Casey.

Even though I have grave concerns about the direction of the war and 
General Casey, I will vote for his confirmation to be Army Chief of 
Staff. I do, however, pray that General Casey has the courage to speak 
his convictions in his new post. The last thing our Nation and our 
troops need is a ''yes'' man with access to the Oval Office--someone 
who tells the President what he wants to hear and not what he needs to 
hear. ''Yes'' men, such as Vice President Cheney and former Secretary 
of Defense Rumsfeld and Wolfowitz, led us into this Iraq quagmire. To 
end the war, the President is going to have to start listening to and 
heeding the advice of those who disagree with him in order to get us 
out.

In the Senate this week, we attempted to give the President another 
chance to listen. We tried to give the bipartisan majority of Senators 
who oppose escalation the chance to send a clear message to President 
Bush. Unfortunately, our majority was silenced by a minority of 
Republicans who decided protecting the President was more important 
than sending him a message: Do not surge. Do not escalate.

It is time the White House and its champions in Congress stopped 
playing politics in the war. We have had enough politics and far too 
little diplomacy. What we need is a strategy that will succeed in Iraq. 
I hope General Casey will play such a role in bringing such a strategy 
about and, thus, I will vote for his confirmation.

Mr. President, I yield back all the time, and I ask for the yeas and 
nays.