# COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2007
## `118c202a4604b93df5ebed7aed656a3b`
`Mr. DODD â€” 19 July 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Madam President, I begin by commending our leading sponsors 
and managers of this legislation, Senator Kennedy and Senator Enzi, for 
the leadership they provided in working on this important legislation. 
It is especially important to most American families, because all of us 
now are beginning to appreciate how expensive it is to receive a higher 
education--tragically, I point out--and what a higher education can 
mean to more and more Americans--the quality of life, individual 
success of our citizenry, but also the collective health of our country 
as well when we have a well-educated population.

I have often quoted the statistic made by Thomas Jefferson more than 
200 years ago that:




 Any nation that expects to be ignorant and free expects 


 what never was and never can be.


Certainly as we enter this 21st century of global competitiveness, 
the children of my State are not just competing with the children of 
Missouri, the home State of the Presiding Officer, but also competing, 
obviously, with children from all over the world, from Beijing, 
Johannesburg, Moscow, New Delhi--everywhere. This is going to be a very 
different world for children growing up in the 21st century. The extent 
we provide them with the tools and preparation necessary to compete and 
succeed under these circumstances--very different from what most of us 
have grown up with--is going to be extremely important, and the work 
this body does in the coming days is extremely important.

I believe the National Science Foundation reported that the abrupt 
changes that will come in this country will be staggering if we don't 
do a better job in preparing ourselves for the educational challenges 
that we will face in the 21st century. The cost of a college education 
obviously is a major factor here. It is vital for children and families 
and for America's long-term success. According to recent statistics, to 
put it in graphic terms, a person with a higher education, a college 
education, their earning power jumps by almost $1 million. Not that 
this ought to be the sole criterion whether someone gets a higher 
education, but the earning power of an individual is substantially 
enhanced. There are other, more important issues than earning power, 
but certainly the issues of individuals being able to do better, 
provide for the long-term financial security of themselves and families 
is critically important. But there are issues that go beyond how much 
money you make that have to do with an education. We have to support 
the institution we embrace as Americans, as Jefferson was suggesting 
back in the beginning of the 19th century. I would argue even more 
importantly, the subtleties of a Bill of Rights will depend upon a 
population that embraces them, understands them, is willing to do 
everything they can to protect them so future generations will enjoy 
the benefits of our form of governance as well.

Today's tuition levels are one of the great barriers to people going 
on to higher education. I was stunned to learn, even in the last 2 
months, the number of people in our country who completed high school, 
were accepted


for higher education and did not go because of financial barriers. I am 
told the numbers hover around 400,000 young people in this country. 
That is a deeply troubling statistic. If we have as many as 400,000 
people in our country who cannot afford to go on to higher education 
despite having done everything else well, then America truly will be 
paying a price in no time.

The average cost of attending a public university is roughly $13,000. 
The average cost of attending a private university stands at $30,000. 
That is the average. I know people here can cite numbers and statistics 
that make that $13,000 on average seem small and the $30,000 on average 
per annum seem small.

But just think of that, $30,000, for one individual to attend 1 year 
of higher education; even at a public institution, it costs around 
$13,000. Then consider where the average family is in their income, and 
whether they have more than one child and other obligations, obviously, 
as they try to prepare for their own long-term financial security; not 
worry about health care costs, including rising premium costs, if they 
have health insurance. Additionally, the mortgage payments on their 
home with adjustable rate mortgages, all of those factors crowding in 
as families try to do everything possible to see to it that their 
children can have the benefit of a higher education.

How many families have planned and spent years and years watching 
their children mature and grow, with the full expectation of all the 
admonitions: Work hard, do your homework, get involved in things, learn 
as much as you can, pay attention, and all of that. Then, arriving at 
the moment, where they do everything they are supposed to have done, 
they say now we want to send you on to college, but we cannot afford to 
do so. Or the loans are so expensive that you will be left with such 
debt that the benefits of getting a higher education seem daunting, to 
put it mildly.

So imagine how daunting these levels are to a single parent or a 
family struggling on a minimum wage, for instance. You can even forget 
about it at minimum wage. Clearly, we must do more to ensure that 
skyrocketing tuition does not put out of reach the dream and the 
ability of obtaining a higher education.

That is why this bill is so important, maybe one of the most 
important bills. We have had long debates on immigration, long debates 
on Iraq, all very important issues. But the long-term effects of what 
we do on this legislation may have more to do with the well-being of 
our country than almost anything else in the coming days and weeks.

This bill will help us move toward a society where equal opportunity 
for all is more than just high-blown rhetoric. We hear too often in 
public speeches about doing something to make a difference in the lives 
of working families. There are a number of key provisions in this bill 
which accomplish those goals. For example, the bill caps the borrower's 
monthly loan payments at 15 percent of discretionary income. While 
payments are still costly at 15 percent, this is a major achievement.

This cap, if you will, will make repayment more manageable and 
borrowers will be less likely to default on their loans, which ought to 
be important for the lending institutions.

This bill will also increase the auto zero threshold, as they call 
it, to allow additional low-income families to automatically claim zero 
expected family contributions when filling out financial aid forms. 
This change will allow students of these families to be eligible for 
increased Pell grants.

Too often what we have done with the Pell grants is consider these 
other factors, such as expected family contribution. It drives a 
student out of the Pell grant qualifications when, frankly, what the 
family has to contribute is so little that it would amount to almost 
nothing, and yet would disqualify them from receiving the Pell grant 
funding they need.

Furthermore, we have raised the cap on economic hardship deferments 
from 3 years to 6 years to ensure that students are not finally crushed 
in times of financial difficulty.

We have also strengthened our commitment to those who provide high-
quality childcare services as well as all other public service 
employees by offering them further opportunities for loan forgiveness.

One of the items contained in this bill that I am most happy about is 
the increase in the Pell grant. I have been involved in this for many 
years. It has been terribly frustrating over the last 6, 7, 8 years to 
watch how little this administration is willing to support even modest 
increases to the Pell Grant Program in our country.

The Pell grant in this bill will be raised to $5,100, in 2008 and up 
to $5,400 by the year 2012. Frankly, that is paltry. Candidly, I wish 
it were much higher, especially considering what a Pell grant used to 
provide only a few short years ago toward the cost of a public 
education. The grant used to cover 80 percent of the average tuition, 
fees, room and board at a public university.

Today the Pell grant covers 29 percent. So even with a Pell grant you 
are still looking at having to come up with roughly 70 percent of the 
additional costs of that higher education when you take all of these 
factors together.

As a result, low- to middle-income students who attend college are 
forced to finance their education with an ever-increasing percentage of 
loans, including private loans. This increase in the debt burden of 
students, in some cases, keeps them from going to college at all. As I 
mentioned the numbers earlier, somewhere close to 400,000 students are 
not going on to higher education because of financial burdens.

This year alone, it is estimated that 400,000 high school graduates 
who are prepared and ready to go to a 4-year college will be unable to 
go because their families cannot afford it. While I continue to 
advocate for even greater increases in the Pell grant, I commend my 
colleagues for taking the first steps in getting us back to the 80-
percent tuition coverage we achieved in 1975. I am pleased that 
Senators Kennedy and Enzi are doing that.

Until we reach the goal of 80 percent of students' tuition being 
covered by Pell grants and other forms of Federal aid, many students 
will be forced to turn to private and direct consumer and student 
loans, which are also not guaranteed by the Federal Government and are 
not subject to loan limits.

In fact, the market for private student loans has grown significantly 
and is now the fastest growing segment of the $85 billion student loan 
industry, as traditional sources of student aid have failed to keep 
pace, with both the tremendous demand and the cost of higher education.


The underwriting for private loans is similar to that used for other 
forms of consumer credit. This means student borrowers, who usually 
have little or no credit history, poor credit scores, or no parental 
cosigner, or whose parents have poor credit histories, will typically 
pay higher rates than those with good credit histories and those with 
parental consigners with good credit.

In many regards, this model runs counter to the longstanding Federal 
purpose of student aid, which is targeting low-cost financial 
assistance to students with the greatest needs and those from the 
humblest of backgrounds, one of the great success stories of our 
country.

We have heard the anecdote repeated hundreds and hundreds if not 
thousands of times of what a difference a college education has made 
throughout history. We have tried desperately to make sure that no one 
in this country would be deprived of the opportunity of a higher 
education because they or their family lacked the financial resources 
to do it.

If you had the drive, the ambition, the determination to get a higher 
education, America stood ready to see to it that this pathway was 
available to you. It has only been in the last few years that we have 
allowed a situation to develop where too often those young people and 
those families are being told: Because you are in those circumstances, 
you are not going to be able to get that higher education that you need 
and you deserve.

As I mentioned a moment ago, 400,000 young people who will not go on 
to 4-year colleges, at a time when we enter a global marketplace, where 
we need to have the best prepared generation America has ever produced, 
we seem to be heading in the wrong direction.

This bill reverses that trend. Again, I commend my colleagues, 
Senator Kennedy particularly, and Senator Enzi,


for their work in reversing this trend line. I hope it is the beginning 
of several steps that we take in the coming years.

I am further alarmed by reports uncovered by the Congressional and 
State investigators which detail aggressive and questionable private 
loan marketing practices and other unseemly industry practices, ranging 
from conflicts of interest to kickback schemes to consumer fraud.

I want to particularly commend Andrew Cuomo, the attorney general of 
the State of New York, who has taken a leadership role in this 
nationally, in uncovering some of these schemes and kickbacks and other 
financial activities that have put these loans at even higher costs to 
students.

I was pleased we had him testify before the Banking Committee only a 
few weeks ago to talk about this and the steps that we will be taking 
to try to correct some of those matters at the appropriate time.

I also was troubled by issues uncovered at a hearing that I just 
mentioned in the Senate Banking Committee that suggests some lenders 
may be using as part of their loan underwriting criteria subjective 
rankings of academic institutions, and demographic information about 
the students who attend these schools who, that be discriminatory and 
disparately impact the quality and type of loans made available to 
students based on their race and socioeconomic background, in effect 
red-lining, where they are taking entire institutions, based on some 
data and so forth they collect to deny individual students within those 
institutions the lower cost access to financial support.

That amounts to red-lining, as we saw in housing issues only a few 
years ago. If that is the case, and we believe it may be, we will be 
taking steps to correct that as well. Students seeking to finance the 
cost of a higher education should have access to the most competitive 
and affordable loans available through private student loan markets, 
with appropriate consideration given to the credit worthiness of the 
student and any cosigner, without regard to the type of institution 
that student chooses to attend.

Students should have full and timely access to all of the information 
they need regarding the terms and conditions of private student loans 
in order to make a well-informed decision regarding the financing of 
their educational needs.

Given the growth of this market and its enormous impact on the 
educational and economic future of student borrowers, I view it as 
imperative that we address these issues as part of the consideration of 
the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. We should ensure that 
the market is well regulated and accessible and affordable as an 
alternative source of higher education funding for those who need the 
loans in our country.

We can do that, in my view, by prohibiting industry practices like 
revenue sharing and co-branding that present conflicts of interest by 
providing student borrowers with better, more timely disclosure 
information so that students understand the rates, the terms, and the 
conditions of the loans they are going to receive.

We must work to make sure that private student lending practices are 
transparent so the public can be confident that students and families 
are obtaining the most competitive and affordable student loans with 
the fairest terms.

I plan on working with my friend and colleague, Senator Shelby of 
Alabama, who is the ranking member of the Senate Banking Committee, and 
all members of that committee for that matter, on this bill. We are in 
the process of doing that now. I would say under the circumstances that 
this bill is coming up, we would be prohibited, under Senate rules, 
from raising that issue on this particular vehicle.

I do not in any way suggest that what they are doing is not the right 
thing to be doing, it is the right thing to be doing, but our bill that 
deals specifically with student financing and lending institutions will 
be presented at an appropriate time, possibly when the full higher 
education bill is before us--but we are determined on a bipartisan 
basis to address some of these issues, if not all of them, that I have 
raised briefly this afternoon.


Indeed, this bill before us provides all students with the tools that 
make it possible to access and afford a postsecondary education. If we 
are serious about leaving no child behind, as I know all of us are as a 
nation, then we must reinvigorate our commitment to higher education, 
to ensure that students have access to a higher education, to a college 
education.

If America is to remain the land of opportunity that all of us want 
it to be, then we must ensure that college is available to all of our 
citizenry. I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this long 
overdue legislation.

I often cite the fact that in our Nation's history, it has always 
been a stunning commentary about our country, as it has evolved and 
matured over the years, that one of the very first bills that ever 
passed the United States Congress in the 18th century, in the early 
1790s, was the Northwest Ordnance. My colleague from Colorado probably 
is more familiar than I, given he represents a State in the far West, 
but the whole idea being to set aside land for educational purposes.

The Morrill Act, which was adopted in the mid-1860s--in fact, right 
in the middle of the Civil War, Senator Morrill of Vermont offered 
legislation to create land grant colleges. So even in the midst of this 
great contest to determine whether we would remain one Nation, one 
Union, the Congress of the United States, under the leadership of 
Abraham Lincoln and Senator Morrill of Vermont, fought to create land 
grant colleges. The University of Connecticut is one of those 
institutions that provides incredible opportunities for young people 
all across the Nation, again understanding the value of education to 
our country.

So in the 18th and the 19th centuries, and then of course in the 20th 
century, we saw, even before World War II was concluded, the Congress 
of the United States passed the GI bill, which provided, of course, a 
whole generation of service men and women coming back from that war the 
ability to get an educational opportunity.

That investment in the GI bill has been repaid to the U.S. Government 
tenfold because of the earning power of the individuals who went 
through the GI bill who were able to improve their economic 
opportunity. The resources they paid back into our country have dwarfed 
the cost of that legislation.

Today we do not even think about legislation like that, given the 
cost, regrettably, I might add, because when you consider that 
400,000--think of that, 400,000 of our young people in this country 
today are not going to go on to a higher education because of cost. 
That is, 400,000 young people who did everything they were asked to do, 
I presume, having been accepted on to higher education--will not get 
that chance because we do not have the resources or the will to come up 
with a system to make that possible.

We talk about being a major competitor nation in the 21st century. I 
promise you, our major competitors around the world are not making that 
mistake. They will create the opportunities for their young people to 
get that education. This bill is a major step to reverse that trend in 
our country.

There are other things we need to do, such as a proposal regarding 
private lenders that we will be offering shortly. I wish I could offer 
it today but, it would be subject to at least two points of order. So 
it would require a 60-vote margin to deal with it. We probably don't 
have a number of Members willing to go that far, I regret to say that. 
So I will wait for another opportunity in the coming weeks to do so. I 
will do that with Senator Shelby as we work on this together.

But my hope is, shortly we will have an opportunity to present 
legislation that will close up some of these abusive practices that 
have contributed to rising costs and depriving families and their 
children of having the best possible arrangements for the student loans 
they need to get a higher education.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.