# TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST  HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `11f6a128472f943929a6236bae645436`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 15 July 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, most of us are aware of the genocide in 
Darfur. We have read about it for years. The best estimates are that 
400,000 people have died as a result of the terrible tragedy in the 
Sudan. Another 2 million or more have been displaced.

Just this week, the International Criminal Court has named the 
President of Sudan as a person to be indicted for war crimes, crimes 
against humanity, and genocide. It is an indication of the severity of 
this crisis and the fact that the world is taking note.

What we also know is that other things are happening in this world 
that are just as devastating, and some of them are within our grasp to 
change.

A few years ago, I made my first trip to Africa in an effort to see 
the feeding programs available for people in some of the poorest places 
on Earth. I also wanted to take a look at the microcredit programs that 
elevate women and give them a chance to finally raise their families 
properly and to have a future.

But I found that no matter where I went in Africa, the same issue 
commanded my attention. That was the global AIDS crisis. It was a 
crisis which was just starting at that point, but the numbers were so 
alarming that you could see trends developing that would be devastating 
to communities and families and even countries.

At the time, it seemed there was nothing we could do. The drugs that 
were being developed in the United States were few and very expensive, 
and the notion of bringing those antiretroviral drugs into Africa 
seemed beyond our grasp. So they encouraged people in Africa, in those 
days, to get tested. But many of them ignored it because they knew if 
they were tested


positive it was a simple death sentence, and they would have to resign 
themselves to the obvious fate.

But things have changed, thank goodness, and they have changed for 
the better. Under President Bush, he described and started an 
initiative to deal with the global AIDS crisis. As I have said on the 
floor many times, I have disagreed with the President on so many 
things, but I certainly believe this was an inspired position which he 
took, that the United States would lead the world in dealing with the 
global AIDS crisis.

We were not only going to address HIV and AIDS, but also tuberculosis 
and malaria. In many countries, more people are dying from the latter 
two than even HIV/AIDS. The President chose 15 countries that the 
United States would deal with directly in the President's program. Then 
for the rest of the world in need, we would work with other countries 
in what is known as the Global Fund.

Before us today on the floor of the Senate is the President's program 
for dealing with global AIDS. I think it is one of the most important 
votes we are going to cast this year. The success of this program has 
brought us a long way in the last 5 or 6 years.

Mr. President, 5 or 6 years ago, only 50,000 people in Sub-Saharan 
Africa were receiving treatment--50,000. Today, PEPFAR and the Global 
Fund reach nearly 2 million people, primarily in Africa.

In the 15 PEPFAR focus countries, the program has helped prevent 
mother-to-child HIV transmission during nearly 12.7 million 
pregnancies. An HIV-positive mother nursing a child, if she is not 
treated properly, could transmit the disease. The treatment is very 
inexpensive, and a mother taking this drug before she delivers the baby 
can protect her child through childbirth and perhaps afterwards. We 
have done that now for 12.7 million pregnancies.

We have provided antiretroviral prophylaxis for well over 800,000 
women who were determined to be HIV positive and prevented over 150,000 
new infections of newborn children just through this program.

We have cared for more than 6.6 million people, including more than 
2.7 million orphans and children.

We have provided over 33 million HIV counseling and testing sessions 
for men, women, and children.

From fiscal year 2004 through 2007, PEPFAR, the President's program 
on AIDS, supported nearly 2.6 million training and continuing education 
encounters for health care workers.

That is a remarkable record of progress in just 5 years. This 
situation on the ground in Africa has been literally transformed 
because of the efforts of the United States--and other countries--but 
the efforts of the United States through PEPFAR and the Global Fund.

The bill before us authorizes $50 billion over 5 years, including $9 
billion for tuberculosis and malaria. It is a large sum of money, but 
put it in context. Each month, we spend $12 to $15 billion on the war 
in Iraq. We are talking about spending $10 billion over the course of a 
year to deal with the global AIDS crisis, tuberculosis, and malaria.

The bill requires the President to develop a strategy for spending 
that will prevent 12 million new infections, that will treat and care 
for at least 14 million people, including 5 million children, make sure 
women have universal access to prevention of mother-to-child 
transmission, and will build the health care capacity of the countries 
that are most affected.

I went to the Congo--the Democratic Republic of the Congo--with 
Senator Brownback of Kansas a few years ago, and we visited the city of 
Goma. Goma is in the northeastern section of the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo. It is a very poor city, and it has so many--so many--
challenges: hunger, disease, war, and, on top of that, a volcano.

We visited a hospital there that was packed with people, in this case 
with women who were seeking a surgery for obstetric fistula. They were 
women, because of sexual assault or a birth at a very early age, ended 
up with serious internal problems that required surgery, and there was 
nowhere to turn. They were shunned in their villages and by their 
families because of the problems associated with this condition.

Many of them marched and trekked hundreds of miles to get to this 
hospital. It is called DOCS Hospital. It is supported by the Protestant 
Churches of America. We saw the women waiting outside, huddled around 
little fires making their food, waiting for the chance for their 
surgery. Sometimes they waited for months, and oftentimes they needed a 
repeat surgery.

After the surgery, they would go into these wards with beds, and the 
patients were two to a single bed. There just was no place to turn. 
This was their only hope. Thanks to the United Nations, they had a 
modern surgical suite, but clearly they did not have the health 
capacity to deal with this obvious problem.

I asked them: How many surgeons do you have in this area of the 
Congo?

They said: We have one surgeon for every 1 million people.

I am proud to represent the city of Chicago. I cannot imagine the 
city of Chicago with three surgeons. But that is what they face in 
parts of Africa. The same thing is true when it comes to other 
professionals: doctors and nurses. Part of the problem is just not 
their failure to train these medical professionals, but the fact that 
we in the West, with our voracious appetite for medical care, are 
poaching the best and brightest of the medical professionals in the 
developing world.

Take a look around your city, go to your local hospital. I just 
visited a Chicago hospital over the weekend and was introduced to a 
number of the members of the staff. I asked two of the women where they 
were from, and they said Ghana. Ghana is in Africa, obviously. My guess 
is that the community they left needed their medical care as much if 
not more than the United States. But they were drawn to the United 
States for obvious reasons.

The surgeons I mentioned in the Congo are paid by the Government. If 
they are fortunate enough to be paid--and they are not always paid--
they are paid $600 a month. Well, a surgeon in the United States is 
going to do much better than that. So the United States, England, 
France, and Germany recruit these medical professionals from the 
poorest places on Earth, and those countries, then faced with HIV/AIDS, 
tuberculosis, malaria, and other obvious surgical needs, don't have the 
professionals.


What difference does it make to us? We feel content that we have that 
nurse at our beck and call when we are in a hospital. We want all of 
our family to have the very best medical care. However, we have to 
accept the reality that a medical crisis halfway around the world can 
be visited on the United States of America within a matter of days. 
What used to result in a trip across the ocean in a ship where the 
sickly would die on the way no longer occurs. People take airplanes and 
in a matter of hours they are here, and they bring with them not only 
their foreign culture but many times their foreign diseases. So a 
public health crisis in some other part of the world has to be a 
genuine concern of ours as well.

This bill we have before us recognizes that. It takes into account 
the need to expand the health care capacity of some of the poorest 
places on Earth, including training community health workers to deliver 
primary health care and preventive services. It includes some 
provisions I have worked on earlier, and I salute the committee for 
adding them relative to expanding the health care capacity in Africa. I 
had introduced a bill with five of my colleagues--S. 805--the African 
Health Capacity Act, and some of the provisions are included.

I might say parenthetically that we need to find a solution to our 
problem in the United States, because we need nurses and doctors here 
as well, and the answer is pretty obvious. We need homegrown talent. 
This year, in my State of Illinois, we turned away 2,000 qualified 
nursing students. We didn't have enough classrooms or teachers or 
clinical opportunities. Two thousand would-be nurses were told: No, you 
won't be given admission to an Illinois school this year. When we 
consider the shortage in health care professionals, we can't afford to 
do that. Whether it is doctors or nurses or other health professionals, 
we need to be actively recruiting more in the United States so we 
aren't reaching out to the poorest places on Earth, poaching their 
talent, when they desperately need it as well.



This bill goes on to expand current programs. It funds the testing, 
counseling, treatment and new protocols to address drug resistance in 
treating tuberculosis. Our colleague, Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, 
has been a leader in the House, and now in the Senate, on the issue of 
tuberculosis. Most of us pay little attention to this because it is an 
illness and disease that affects the poor. However, we probably noted 
in the news not long ago when there was a person who wasn't poor who 
was banned from travel because he was carrying this disease--this drug-
resistant, rather, form of tuberculosis. So we understand this can 
affect others outside of those who are impoverished. The goal is to do 
more work worldwide to deal with this with testing, counseling, and 
treatment.

Incidentally, the treatment of tuberculosis in its most common form 
is inexpensive. It requires a dutiful process to make sure the person 
takes their medicine on a regular basis. Some countries such as India 
have found out how to do this and are leading the way and we should 
follow their example.

This bill also strengthens the role of the U.S. malaria coordinator. 
It increases the U.S. contribution to the Global Fund with additional 
safeguards and oversight, and it funds research on microbicides to help 
prevent the spread of HIV. It is a good bill and it covers a lot of 
different things.

We are at a point now where we are in a battle with many forces in 
this world who are trying to define the United States and tell people 
around the world who we are. Many of those representations are false 
and misleading. Unfortunately, they create enemies of the United 
States--people who should be our friends. I think when the United 
States embarks on this kind of effort--a global health effort--with 
tangible results in countries around the world, we demonstrate our 
values and our caring. That is why I think this bill is so important. I 
am sorry it has been held up for a number of months, but the good news 
is it is on the floor now and we have a chance to pass it.

This bill would require that more than half of the money appropriated 
for addressing local HIV/AIDS be spent on antiretroviral drug treatment 
and care, controlling other infections that can occur. It provides 
nutrition and food support and other medical care essential to HIV/AIDS 
treatment.

The critics of this bill say it goes too far--not just in the money 
spent, which I disagree with--but in what they call mission creep. They 
argue that nutrition and safe drinking water and empowerment of women 
and girls bears little relation to the fight against global AIDS. They 
believe you should give individuals a pill and send them on their way. 
Well, common sense suggests otherwise. If you visit the poorest places 
on Earth and have time to ask only one question, I have found that the 
question you should ask, if you want to know whether this country has a 
chance to overcome its problems, is this: How do you treat your women? 
If women are treated like property, slaves, or chattel, if they have no 
voices in decisions of the family or community, it is likely that some 
of the worst medical conditions and economic conditions will continue 
and will worsen; but if women have a role--if they are educated; if 
they have a voice in their communities and in their government--it 
makes all the difference in the world.

So in this bill, when we talk about empowering women and girls 
through education, training, and self-awareness, it is money well 
spent. These are the women who will guide that country in the future 
and who will be a strong voice in a family where otherwise they might 
be mistreated or infected without even being able to speak a word.

I also think it is obvious that handing medicine to someone who is 
infected isn't enough. I have been to Nairobi and Kenya. I have seen 
the clinic where women who are receiving these expensive antiretroviral 
drugs were dying before my eyes--not of HIV/AIDS, but of malnutrition. 
They were, with limited funds, providing for their children and not 
giving themselves enough to eat, so even the antiretroviral drugs 
weren't working.

So when this bill talks about providing basic nutrition for people 
around the world, particularly women, so that the drugs will work, it 
is common sense. The same thing for safe drinking water. If there is 
one thing that causes more medical problems on this Earth, it is filthy 
drinking water which causes people, and children especially, to get 
sick and die. When we talk about safe drinking water as part of this 
whole program in dealing with global health, it is imminently sensible; 
and those who argue that it goes too far, we shouldn't include it in 
this bill, haven't taken the time to meet the people who live under 
these terrible circumstances.

I hope this bill will pass and I hope it passes soon. We have been 
waiting for some time. Condoleezza Rice, our Secretary of State, and 
President Bush have asked us to move this bill forward to provide the 
technical and financial assistance to help countries develop their 
national health workforce, expand worker training and retention, build 
clinics and health networks.

This bill sets a target of training and retaining 140,000 
professionals and paraprofessionals. If we can build that work force in 
the focus countries, we will have the minimum staffing levels of 
doctors and nurses and midwives recommended by the World Health 
Organization. We have to change the situation on the ground. Villages 
will continue to depend on donors for medicine and clinics until they 
develop their own health care capacity. We can start to change the 
situation with the technical assistance and financial aid authorized in 
this bill.

The best response to the global AIDS crisis is to help these 
countries build a more sustainable, locally driven public health 
system. The bill is named after two former Members of the House of 
Representatives: Tom Lantos of California, who recently passed away, 
and Henry Hyde of Illinois, both of whom supported this legislation. In 
their name and in their honor, we should pass it and pass it as quickly 
as we can.


I recall my first trip to Africa. I went to Uganda. There was a 
clinic there before any of the drugs had arrived where people had been 
diagnosed with HIV/AIDS. Some of the women at that clinic who had small 
children were involved in a project called the Memory Book. They would 
sit on the porch of this clinic while their children played on the 
playground. They were assembling their life story with photographs, 
telling about memories of their family and memories of their children 
when they were born and as they grew up. This memory book was going to 
be handed off to the child, still very young, to hold on to so that 
when mother was gone, having died of HIV/AIDS, there would at least be 
some evidence that she lived, some evidence of her love for that child.

At this same clinic in the days before antiretroviral drugs, they had 
a choir. It is not unusual. Almost every place you go in Africa, they 
sing. They sing when they greet you, they sing when you leave, they 
will sing in the middle of a meeting. It is beautiful. This choir at 
this clinic was a choir made up of men and women who had been diagnosed 
with HIV/AIDS and had nowhere to turn. They knew they were all doomed. 
They came together to sing songs they had written about their plight, 
and one of them--they gave me a small tape recording--is entitled ''Why 
Me?'' It was a song that broke your heart as you heard them sing it: 
Why her, why him, why you, why me--trying to figure out why this had 
happened to them, that they came down with this deadly disease and knew 
they would die.

It wasn't that long ago when I made that trip. Today, things have 
changed. It has changed because the United States and the caring people 
of this country are stepping forward. Millions of people are now alive 
today. Millions of children who would have been orphaned now have a 
chance. Is this an important thing for us to do? I think it is. I think 
it is important in moral terms, but it is important in political terms 
too, to make sure that all around the world, people understand who we 
are, what our values are, and that we are a caring and compassionate 
people.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.