# WORLDWIDE WAR ON TERROR
## `12ae9c6a05764d4ca037ec244455f4d0`
`Mr. BOND â€” 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I came to the Senate to talk about the loss 
of a great soldier and dear friend of mine, but before I do that, I 
will comment on a few things we have heard discussed this morning.

First, our efforts on this side are to get an opportunity to debate 
and vote on the Gregg amendment. The Gregg amendment, very simply 
stated--I don't have the full text in front of me--supports our troops. 
It says we should support our troops and not cut off funding. That is a 
valid viewpoint. We are at war. Traditionally, this Senate has 
supported our troops. That used to be the absolute baseline which 
everyone accepted. The main resolution that has been referred to, I 
fear, goes in the wrong direction.

We, in time of war, ought to debate, and we will debate fully, and 
everyone will have an opportunity to express their views--but I think 
it is very important we not only have an opportunity to vote on the two 
resolutions which have been discussed but also to vote on the Gregg 
amendment. As soon as we can get agreement to do that, I am confident 
the leaders can move forward.

I have also heard in the Senate a number of comments from Members who 
do not support a cut-and-run policy. I have addressed previously the 
disaster of an immediate withdrawal from Iraq. In open testimony, the 
intelligence community--the Director of National Intelligence--the 
Director of CIA, the Director of Military Intelligence, said chaos 
would reign in Iraq if we withdrew precipitously. It would fall into 
chaos. The primary beneficiary of that chaos would be al-Qaida. Osama 
bin Laden and Al-Jazeera have said how important it was for them to 
establish Iraq as their main base of operations.

Second, there would be chaos and slaughter of innocent civilians, 
both Shia and Sunni. There would be a tremendous increase in the deaths 
of civilians. But even more frightening, the neighboring states would 
likely be brought in. The Sunni states would likely come to the aid of 
their Sunni brethren, and if that had not already triggered the 
entrance of Iran into it on behalf of the Shia, it surely would, and we 
could potentially be facing a major Middle East conflict with many 
states involved.

I have heard it said that the Levin-Warner resolution asks we chart a 
new direction. We have charted a new direction. And the way forward is 
a new direction. The President has the agreement of Prime Minister al-
Maliki and the Shia, Sunni, and Kurdish government of Iraq that they 
will take control and they will assume responsibility. They need help 
in training particularly their police, but they will take control. That 
is where we need to be.

We can help pick off the al-Qaida and the other committed 
international terrorists, the radical Islamists. But we need them to 
resolve this civil strife between Shia and Sunni, and do so in a fair 
way, including the Kurds and the Sunnis.

This happens to be the military plan the Baker-Hamilton group 
supported. They said to enable the Iraqi security, military, and police 
to take over, we should send in some troops temporarily. That is what 
the President is doing, adding another 21,000 to support them.

Is this going to work? Well, again, with the release of the National 
Intelligence Estimate on Iraq and the open testimony of the leaders of 
the intelligence community, they said it is an open question. It is a 
tough decision. But it is the best option we have.

Yes, they think there is a chance it will work. And the Iraqi 
Government knows this is their last best chance. They had best make it 
work. And they best get their police trained and their military 
trained.

Many people have called for bringing in other nations in the Middle 
East. That is what the President and Secretary Rice have done, to bring 
in other nations that will help rebuild the Sunni areas and help 
provide support to the Iraqis.

There are some people who say we should not have an unlimited 
commitment. Well, the President has told not only this Nation but Prime 
Minister al-Maliki there is a time deadline. We are committed to them 
but not indefinitely. And if they do not take advantage of this 
opportunity, it will be their country which will fall into chaos


and be the battleground, perhaps embroiling the entire region, but 
certainly wiping out and causing great death and destruction in their 
own country. So we do have a new direction.

Now, some are pushing a resolution that challenges the President's 
implementation of the plan. We are trying to be generals and say 
General Petraeus--whom we just confirmed unanimously because he is such 
a great general, who said we should have those 21,000 troops--they are 
challenging his military judgment in the implementation of the plan.

I know many of my colleagues have followed military policy for many 
years, but I do not think we in this body can determine for the 
generals what the proper level of troop commitments is. They are the 
ones who take responsibility for the lives of their men and women. To 
send a message by adopting a resolution that says we oppose the 
President's plan, implementation of his plan, is not going to change 
sending more American troops there.

But it will tell al-Qaida: Good news, boys, the Congress is opposing 
the President. Our chances look better to take over the country.

And it will send a message to friendly countries that are trying to 
help the Iraqis telling them: Sorry guys, we are not interested in 
winning this, so you probably would not want to waste your effort 
helping us.

Finally, what does it send as a message to our troops: We do not 
support the military plan they are being asked to carry out, the men 
and women who are risking their lives? Does that make any sense? I fear 
not.

I hope we can reject very soundly the Levin-Warner amendment and 
adopt the Gregg amendment and also the McCain amendment.
