# MRAP
## `13c1615db23da80437b4488880f24da6`
`Mr. BIDEN â€” 19 July 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Madam President, I want to explain an amendment I hope to 
get adopted when we return to the Defense authorization bill and that I 
have filed today.

Let me be very frank. This is a very expensive amendment. It is also, 
literally, priceless. It makes good on this commitment: So long as a 
single American soldier or marine remains in Iraq, we will provide him 
or her with the best protection this country can provide.

Let me start with the basics. There are two critical issues facing 
our soldiers and marines today: improvised explosive devices, or IEDs, 
and explosively formed penetrators, or EFPs. IEDs are planted in roads 
and on the side of roads to hit the bottom of vehicles with powerful 
explosives. EFPs are shaped charges that come into the side armor of 
vehicles at high speeds.

We know that IEDs now cause about 70 percent of all American 
fatalities. Since 2003, in any given month, IEDs have caused between 30 
and 76 percent of American fatalities. For every death, there are 
usually 2 to 10 Americans wounded. Over the past year, we have also 
seen a growing threat from EFPs. They are not yet everywhere in Iraq, 
but they are spreading and they are very lethal.

The military has a strategy for dealing with both. First, they seek 
to disrupt the organizations that produce IEDs and EFPs. They go after 
the people and the supplies. Second, they attempt to use tactics and 
technology to prevent IEDs and EFPs from being activated when American 
personnel are close enough to be harmed. Third, they attempt to survive 
a direct hit. It is the third area where we could and should have done 
much more to make a difference years ago but where still today we can 
and must make a difference.

The military has tested, both at testing centers and in the field, 
the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicle, also called an MRAP. The 
MRAP provides dramatically improved protection against IEDs. The 
military has said that it is four to five times as good as an up-
armored HMMWV. More important, military commanders tell us that it will 
reduce deaths and casualties from IEDs by 67 to 80 percent. The 
Brookings Institution found that 1,400 Americans died in Iraq due to 
IEDs from March of 2003 through June of 2007. If we had had MRAPs in 
the field from the start--and we could and should have--938 to 1,120 
Americans would be alive today.

And let me just clarify for my colleagues that this is not new 
technology. It has been used successfully in Africa, by nations much 
poorer than ours, since the 1970s. I don't want to get bogged down in 
history, but this is not rocket science. Every day we delay, another 
soldier or marine is killed or injured by an IED. If we just look at 
this year, IEDs killed 309 Americans; 207 to 247 would still be alive 
today if they had been in MRAPs. We need to make sure that for the 
second half of 2007, those MRAPs are there and those lives are saved.

What about the threat from these shaped charges that come in from the 
side, the EFP? The Army's Rapid Equipping Force and the Joint 
Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization started working on that 
last year. In conjunction with industry, they produced a vehicle 
nicknamed ''the Bull'' and officially called the Highly Survivable 
Urban Vehicle Ballistic Protection Experiment Program. This vehicle was 
tested and shown to defeat EFPs and also tested against the first level 
of MRAP requirements. That testing was completed in March of this year. 
For some reason, the military has not asked for another vehicle to do 
the MRAP level two tests. So we do not actually know how capable this 
vehicle might be for all threats, but we know it works against EFPs. 
Instead of trying to get ahead of the enemy and get this technology 
into the field, the military seems to be sitting on its hands while the 
EFP threat has increased. Why wouldn't you field something you know 
works?

The perfect vehicle would be a complete MRAP with EFP protection, but 
that appears to be many months away, although some MRAP producers tell 
me that their vehicles have survived EFP hits in the field. So again, 
we do not have the complete picture. We have also been told that Frag-
Kit-6 armor can defeat EFPs, but it is too heavy for MRAPs. So vehicles 
must be redesigned and retested. This will take time. I understand that 
and support that effort, but Americans are dying today. Again, as with 
the MRAP, we have a technology that could keep them alive, and we 
should be using it while we work to perfect it.

I do not know if all of my colleagues saw the USA Today article that 
appeared on Monday detailing some of the history surrounding the MRAP. 
I will summarize a few points but will ask to have the entire article 
printed in the Record.

This article details efforts to get MRAPs going back to 2003. It also 
details the reasons for delay, and that is what I want to point out to 
my colleagues.

First, apparently, the leadership at the Pentagon did not expect this 
war to last this long. Well, that is no surprise. We all remember the 
''Mission Accomplished'' speech and the promise of roses in the 
streets. We remember Vice President Cheney telling us that the 
insurgency was in its death throes. We remember Secretary Rumsfeld 
telling us that crime in Baghdad was not any worse than that in 
Washington, DC. I remember all of that. Sadly, none of those leaders 
remember the hearings that Senator Lugar and I held before the war 
began that predicted the need for a long-term American presence and 
engagement. They don't remember


some of us, starting before the war, repeatedly urged the President to 
level with the American people about the likely duration, cost, and 
danger of this war. Perhaps even more tragically, this uncertainty 
about future force levels continues to limit the military commitment to 
fielding more MRAPs and EFP protected vehicles.

Second, these vehicles were seen as contrary to Secretary Rumsfeld's 
vision for the transformed military, a lighter, more agile force. While 
it depends on what armored humvee you are talking about, many believed 
that MRAPs were heavier and slower than humvees. The stifling effect 
Secretary Rumsfeld's views and management style had on military leaders 
is well known to everyone who follows military issues. In this 
instance, it meant that officers were predisposed against the heavier 
vehicle and didn't push the issue when our forces in the field asked 
for MRAP technology. Instead, they focused on the first two parts of 
the anti-IED strategy I talked about earlier.

Finally, and most disturbing to me, many believed that Congress would 
not support funding the MRAP while also fielding better armored 
humvees. I do not know of a single wartime funding request that 
Congress has denied. There have been some items added to the 
supplemental bills that were clearly not urgent or war related, but 
nothing directly linked to current operations was refused. Nonetheless, 
it appears that the military did not believe that our support for 
needed equipment was for real. Even today, I hear that leaders are 
concerned that they must cut multiple existing programs to pay for this 
growing MRAP requirement. There may be programs that we could all agree 
are not as vital for a wartime Army, but I do not want that debate and 
concern to slow lifesaving equipment.

I understand that this program will be the third largest procurement 
program in the Pentagon. As I said, it is very costly. We can work 
together in the future to find the lower priority programs that simply 
should not be funded if they are competing with lifesaving programs. We 
do not have any more time to delay spending the money needed to buy 
these vehicles, however, if we are going to save lives.

Leadership is about making hard choices, and I look forward to 
working with my colleagues and the administration to do whatever it 
takes. I am even willing to cut programs I support because saving lives 
and limbs under fire today must truly be our first priority. So, today, 
with this amendment I hope we can make it clear that we will provide 
whatever funding is needed, so that military leaders do not fear being 
honest about their needs.

In addition to the issues brought out in the article, I have also 
heard a regular concern that some in the military do not believe MRAPs 
will be needed in the future--that when we leave Iraq, we will leave 
most of these vehicles behind. I was happy to see the Secretary of the 
Army, Peter Geren, state clearly in his confirmation hearing that he 
believes MRAPs will be needed in future conflicts. It is clear to me 
that until we show America's enemies that we can handle IEDs, they will 
continue to use them throughout the world. We are already seeing an 
increased use of IEDs in Afghanistan.

It is also clear to me that those who worry about what the military 
will be driving in 5 years are missing the boat here. I understand that 
there are great advancements being developed for our future force. But 
we have a sacred trust to those on the front lines today, right now. 
Right now, we are saying to them: If you survive this war, we will get 
you really good protection for the next one. Give me a break. To 
paraphrase a former Secretary of Defense, you fight the war you are in, 
not the war you might be in down the road. Ideally, you do both, but 
your priority has to be protecting the men and women under fire now. 
End of story. Can anyone imagine Roosevelt saying, ''Listen, we may not 
need some of those boats after Normandy, so maybe we should not build 
so many?'' Of course not. War is inherently wasteful and this war is no 
exception. I am willing to waste money and equipment if it means we 
don't waste lives and limbs. The fact that we may not need all of the 
vehicles we buy today in 5 years, is no reason to shortchange the 
soldiers and marines who truly need the vehicles today.

I have given my colleagues some of this history so they will 
understand why we must stand up for our marines and soldiers on this 
issue. We must cut through the ''business as usual'' bureaucracy. I 
applaud Secretary Gates for making MRAPs the top priority of the 
military, but I am concerned that even now, some of the same problems 
continue. After all, Army commanders in Iraq concluded that they need 
17,700 MRAPs. That is 15,200 more than currently being bought. We must 
act now to put money in the pipeline to order the additional vehicles 
and expand production capacity.

Instead, we find out that 2 months later, the Joint Requirements 
Oversight Council has yet to approve the Army request as a ''validated 
joint requirement.'' I don't get it.

The President tells us that the most important thing in this war is 
the judgment of our commanders in the field. Now, I may disagree with 
the policy being executed, but I would agree that when it comes to 
tactical decisions about the best way to implement our policies, this 
is the right approach. Apparently, others feel that the commanders 
should only be listened to selectively, when it does not cost too much 
money.

The commanders in the field have said that they need an additional 
15,200 mine resistant vehicles for the Army. They have also said that 
they need thousands of vehicles with EFP protection. So, why the delay?

No one from the Pentagon has been able to explain it to me.

Last, some argue that the real problem is production capacity. I 
simply don't buy it. We are being told that American industry cannot 
handle this or does not care enough about our soldiers and marines to 
do it. I don't buy it. These are purely military vehicles. If the 
military does not place the orders, industry will not build them, and 
they certainly won't create new production capacity. They cannot sell 
the extras to your neighbor or mine. So we must put the money up front 
and challenge our companies to deliver quickly. We did that on the 
supplemental where Congress accepted my amendment adding $1.2 billion. 
Because that led to increased production capacity, Secretary Gates has 
reprogrammed another $1.2 billion for fiscal year 2007 to take 
advantage of that new capacity.

We made it to the Moon by putting money up front and challenging 
Americans to do their best to get there. MRAPs and EFP protected 
vehicles are basically modified trucks. America knows how to make 
trucks and how to make a lot of them. As I said before, this is not 
rocket science. If we buy it, they will build it.

What if they cannot? What if industry can only get 15,000 or 20,000 
of the 23,000 we need built by the end of fiscal year 2008? Well, I 
tell my colleagues, than we will know that we gave them every chance to 
succeed. More important, we gave our soldiers and marines their best 
chance to survive this war.

And the downside is simply that all of the funds we provide cannot be 
spent in 1 year and all of the vehicles cannot be purchased. In that 
situation, all we have to do is authorize reprogramming the unspent 
funds for the next fiscal year. Compared to taking a chance on saving 
our kids, that is an easy downside to accept.

I opened by saying that this was a very expensive amendment, and it 
is. Let me be clear. It provides $23.6 billion for Army MRAPs, enough 
money to buy the 15,200 the commanders in the field are asking for. The 
amount is based on the last cost estimate I was given by the Pentagon 
on July 9. The amendment also provides an additional $1 billion that I 
have been told is needed for the purchase of 7,774 MRAPs currently 
planned for and funded in this bill. The increased funds are needed for 
airlift, training, and maintenance costs not originally included in the 
program budget.

In addition, the amendment provides $400 million for EFP protection. 
Half is to field 200 of the vehicles already tested and half is for the 
joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization to continue to 
work on and field better vehicles. The Bull may not be the perfect 
answer, but it gives us a chance to save American lives today. While we 
work on the perfect solution, an MRAP with EFP protection, we should 
still be giving our soldiers and marines the best we have today. The 
military needs


to see if the Bull can provide full MRAP protection. They also need to 
look at other ideas for improving MRAPs, but while they do, we should 
take advantage of the proven technology we have at hand.

Last, this amendment asks Secretary Gates to report back to us within 
30 days on any legal authorities he needs to produce and field these 
protective vehicles faster.

Let me also clarify what we are adding these funds to. The Armed 
Services Committee added $4.1 billion to the President's initial 
request for a mere $441 million for MRAPs in this bill. At the time, 
that was all that was thought to be needed to meet the 7,774 
requirement and I applaud the committee for meeting that need. The 
situation has changed since the bill came out of committee. We now know 
that the Army commanders on the ground want far more. We cannot get 
such a large order produced if we continue to delay.

For me, this is very simple. I believe that when our sons and 
daughters are getting blown up and we have vehicles proven to 
dramatically improve their odds of survival, we must get the vehicles 
to them. This amendment allows us to do that. When the Senate returns 
to debate on the Defense Authorization Act, I hope all of my colleagues 
will support it.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to have the article to which 
I referred printed in the Record.