# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `13ee463cebc43e4cca6f05f62767811c`
`Mr. KENNEDY â€” 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, earlier in the day, there was the 
attempt of my friend and colleague, Senator Smith, to at least try to 
propose an amendment that deals with hate crimes and try to get it into 
an order and to be able to have consideration of that amendment during 
the Defense authorization bill. There has been objection. I can 
understand the importance of the underlying amendment. I certainly 
believe that underlying amendment has great significance and 
importance, and we are going to have an opportunity, I believe, 
tomorrow to vote on it.

I wish to indicate I have every intention, with Senator Smith, of 
offering at some time the hate crimes legislation. I know the question 
comes up: Why are we offering hate crimes legislation on a Defense 
authorization bill? The answer is very simple: The Defense 
authorization bill is dealing with the challenges of terrorism, and the 
hate crimes issue--to try to get a handle on the problems of hate 
crimes, we are talking about domestic terrorism. We have our men and 
women who are over in Iraq and Afghanistan and around the world 
fighting for American values. One of the values we have as Americans is 
the recognition that we do not believe individuals ought to be singled 
out because of their race, religion or sexual orientation and be the 
subject of hate attack.

This has been an ongoing and continuing issue for our country. At 
another time, I will get into greater detail about the nature of the 
challenges we are facing on this particular issue. We passed hate crime 
legislation at the time of Dr. King, but it was somewhat restrictive in 
terms of its application. We have been reminded about this challenge 
probably most dramatically with Mr. Shepard out in the Wyoming 
countryside, who was selected to be a victim of a hate crime and 
suffered a horrific death.

I, for one, and I think others do, understand we have voted on this 
on other Defense authorization bills. It has been carried on other 
Defense authorization bills. I know my friend and colleague, Senator 
Smith, would not have taken an unreasonable period of time. We have 
voted on this issue. We voted in 2004 and in 2000 on this issue. 
Members are familiar with the substance of the issue. So we don't need 
a great deal of time. We are glad to cooperate with the floor managers 
in terms of the time.

I didn't want to let the afternoon go by and leave any doubt. I have 
had the opportunity to mention this to Senator Levin on other 
occasions. I mentioned it, as well, to our majority leader, Senator 
Reid, who has been supportive. I know Senator Levin has been supportive 
of the substance of it. It seems to me we are talking about Defense 
authorization and we are talking effectively about the national 
security and about the values of our country and why our men and women 
are involved in defending our country and these values. Certainly, we 
ought to be able to say, as we are dealing with the problem of hatred 
and violence around the world, that we will battle hatred and violence 
as it is applied here at home.

As I mentioned, at another time I will go into detail on the history 
of the legislation and, again, the reasons for it and the facts on this 
particular issue in recent times.

At a time when our ideals are under attack by terrorists in other 
lands, it is more important than ever to demonstrate that we practice 
what we preach, and that we are doing all we can to root out the 
bigotry and prejudice in our own country that leads to violence here at 
home.

Crimes motivated by hate because of the victim's race, religion, 
ethnic background, sexual orientation, disability, or gender are not 
confined to the geographical boundaries of our great Nation. The 
current conflicts in the Middle East and Northern Ireland, the ethnic 
cleansing campaigns in Bosnia and Rwanda, or the Holocaust itself 
demonstrate that violence motivated by hate is a world-wide danger, and 
we have a special responsibility to combat it here at home.

This amendment will strengthen the Defense Authorization Act by 
protecting those who volunteer to serve in the military. The vast 
majority of our soldiers serve with honor and distinction. These men 
and women put their lives on the line to ensure our freedom and for 
that, we are truly grateful. Sadly, our military bases are not immune 
from the violence that comes from hatred.

In 1992, Allen Schindler, a sailor in the Navy was viciously murdered 
by two fellow sailors because of his sexual orientation. Seven years 
later, PFC Barry Winchell, an infantry soldier in the Army, was 
brutally slain for being perceived as gay. These incidents prompted the 
military to implement guidelines to prevent this type of violence, but 
there is more that we can do. We have to send a message that these 
crimes won't be tolerated against any member of society.

A disturbing trend has also been discovered in the military. Last 
year, the Southern Poverty Law Center reported that members of hate 
groups have been entering into the military. As recruiters struggle to 
fulfill their quotas, they are being forced to accept recruits who may 
be extremists, putting our soldiers at higher risk of hate motivated 
violence. This can't be tolerated. We must stem the tied of hatred and 
bigotry by sending a loud and clear message that hate crimes will be 
punished to the fullest extent of the law.

Since the September 11 attacks, we've seen a shameful increase in the 
number of hate crimes committed against Muslims, Sikhs, and Americans 
of Middle Eastern descent. Congress has done much to respond to the 
vicious attacks of September 11. We have authorized the use of force 
against terrorists and those who harbor them in other lands. We have 
enacted legislation to provide aid to victims and their families, to 
strengthen airport security, to improve the security of our borders, to 
strengthen our defenses against bioterrorism, and to give law 
enforcement and intelligence officials enhanced powers to investigate 
and prevent terrorism.

Protecting the security of our homeland is a high priority, and there 
is more that we should do to strengthen our defenses against hate that 
comes from abroad. There is no reason why Congress should not act to 
strengthen our defenses against hate that occurs here at home.

Hate crimes are a form of domestic terrorism. They send the poisonous 
message that some Americans deserve to be victimized solely because of 
who they are. Like other acts of terrorism, hate crimes have an impact 
far greater


than the impact on the individual victims. They are crimes against 
entire communities, against the whole nation, and against the 
fundamental ideals on which America was founded. They are a violation 
of all our country stands for.

Since the September 11 attacks, the Nation has been united in our 
effort to root out the cells of hatred around the world. We should not 
turn a blind eye to acts of hatred and terrorism here at home.

Attorney General Ashcroft put it well when he said:




 Just as the United States will pursue, prosecute, and 


 punish terrorists who attack America out of hatred for what 


 we believe, we will pursue, prosecute and punish those who 


 attack law-abiding Americans out of hatred for who they are. 


 Hatred is the enemy of justice, regardless of its source.


Now more than ever, we need to act against hate crimes and send a 
strong message here and around the world that we will not tolerate 
crimes fueled by hate.

The Senate should not hesitate in condemning countries that tolerate 
crimes motivated by the victim's race, religion, ethnic background, 
sexual orientation, disability, or gender. Hate is hate regardless of 
what nation it originates in. We can send a strong message about the 
need to eradicate hate crimes throughout the world by passing this hate 
crimes amendment to the Defense Department Authorization Bill.

We should not shrink now from our role as the beacon of liberty to 
the rest of the world. The national interest in condemning bias-
motivated violence in the United States is great, and so is our 
interest in condemning bias-motivated violence occurring world-wide.

The hate crimes amendment we are offering today condemns the 
poisonous message that some human beings deserve to be victimized 
solely because of their race, religion, or sexual orientation and must 
not be ignored. This action is long overdue. When the Senate approves 
this amendment, we will send a message about freedom and equality that 
will resonate around the world.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.