# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3159, ENSURING MILITARY READINESS  THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `1401a7d0ae3bebf777a6feb5fecac618`
`Mr. DREIER â€” 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. I thank the gentleman for yielding, Mr. Speaker.

I will say again that it really baffles me as to why this majority 
will not allow us to have an opportunity to consider this bipartisan 
work product of the Iraq Study Group.

On the opening day, Mr. Speaker, the new Speaker of the House of 
Representatives stood and talked about this new sense of 
bipartisanship. We all know that the war in Iraq was the key issue in 
the November election. We know that the war in Iraq was the key issue 
in last November's election, and it is on the minds of all of our 
constituents. We are all concerned about the future that this war on 
terror holds for all of us, and that's why the Iraq Study Group was 
established.

Our former colleague, the former chairman of the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs, Lee Hamilton, the former Secretary of State, a Democrat and 
Republican led eight other Democrats and Republicans, highly regarded 
in this country, strongly partisan individuals, they came together with 
a bipartisan proposal. Unfortunately, the supposedly new bipartisan 
spirit that exists here in the House denies us a chance to even 
consider that.

No one demonstrates more passion on this issue than Mr. Wolf. When he 
made the arguments before the Rules Committee, they were very 
compelling and very strong as only Frank Wolf can offer them. 
Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, we have not seen a chance to do that.