# None
## `144d55ef2410531205702937c2344220`
`Mr. BROWN â€” 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. BROWN. Madam President, today is tax day. People all across 
America are heading to the post office to get that all-important 
''April 15'' postmark. OK, not everybody waits until the last minute, 
but there are enough procrastinators among us that this is sort of a 
rite of spring. The first week in Washington brings the cherry 
blossoms. The 15th of the month brings long lines near midnight in 
front of the main post office just a few blocks from the floor of the 
Senate.

For some taxpayers, 2007 was a very good year. Huge fortunes were 
made on Wall Street by people who correctly bet against the housing 
market, and some of those of the very wealthiest people were given huge 
tax breaks that the middle class never saw. But for the people who live 
in all of those homes, those homes that Wall Street people were betting 
against in some sense, 2007 was a very tough year. The home ownership 
rate has actually fallen over the past 6 years, both nationally by a 
slight amount and close to 2 percent in the Midwest. What is 
extraordinary about this fact is that it came during a period of the 
lowest interest rates since the Eisenhower administration. With the 
economy expanding, with interest rates at record lows, home ownership 
should have expanded. Instead, it shrunk.

The reason is another trend that has received too little notice by 
the Nation's newspapers and the Nation's media: economic growth, simply 
put, has not benefited most Americans. Instead, income and wealth are 
more and more flowing to the most affluent in our country. The middle 
class, meanwhile, must work harder and longer to try to maintain its 
standard of living. Real wages have been in decline for the past 
several years. The only way a lot of families have kept up is, first, 
the entry of more women into the workplace--women in greater numbers; 
second, workers in this country working longer and longer hours, 
overtime if they can get it, two jobs, sometimes even three jobs; and 
third, the only way families have kept up is by taking on more and more 
debt. The third strategy can be a recipe for disaster; sooner or later, 
the bills come due. You can't borrow your way very long to a decent 
standard of living.


Economic security begins with economic opportunity. That means good-
paying jobs. It means the kind of training that enables workers to 
diversify their skills and take on new challenges. It means high-
quality primary, secondary, and, yes, higher education.

Our Nation is the wealthiest in the world. Overall economic growth 
has been strong. Working families should be thriving. By and large, 
they are not. Working families are struggling to find and maintain 
good-paying jobs to keep their health benefits, to keep their pension 
benefits if they have them, and those benefits, those health and 
pension benefits, are being scaled back. It costs more and more, as 
people painfully know every day, to fill the gas tank. People are 
borrowing in record amounts just to cover day-to-day costs. So many 
Ohioans from Galion to Gallipolis are struggling.

The Center for American Progress looked at some key statistics over 
the past 5 years and found that the average job growth is one-fifth the 
rate of previous business cycles. The average job growth is one-fifth--
20 percent--the rate of previous business cycles. Wages have been flat. 
Only 28 percent of middle-class families have the financial resources 
to sustain themselves through a period of unemployment. The average 
family took on debt equal to 126 percent of disposable income just to 
manage its day-to-day expenses.

Having witnessed the weakest economic expansion in modern history--in


other words, the growth in our economy, the expansion in our economy 
was weaker than the expansion of the economy at any time in recent 
history--we now find ourselves in a recession once again. So we didn't 
have very strong growth when things were supposedly good--when profits 
were up, when there was economic growth--but it wasn't spread around 
very well. Now we find ourselves in a recession once again. We have had 
three straight months of job losses. Consumer confidence in Lima and in 
Zanesville and all over my State is understandably shaken.

Our Nation cannot afford to take these statistics in stride, just 
hoping that the precarious financial position of working families is a 
temporary phenomenon linked to the ebbs and flows of our economy, 
because it is not. Our economy as a whole is losing ground. As our 
trade deficit skyrockets, energy and health care costs spiral upward, 
good-paying jobs are too often shipped overseas, and our Federal 
deficit climbs higher and higher and higher. Yet, when Congress tries 
to address any of these problems, we find ourselves faced with 
filibusters, one after another after another, as well as veto threats. 
When we tried to react to the Housing crisis last fall, Republicans 
objected. When we tried to tackle the topic in February, the 
Republicans objected and we faced a filibuster. Even today, the 
President threatens to veto the bill passed by the Senate. Sixty-five 
filibusters, as Senator Durbin and others have said, 65 filibusters--
more filibusters already in the year and 3 months this Senate has been 
in session than in any 2-year period in the history of the U.S. Senate. 
Sixty-five filibusters. It means we haven't been able to do what we 
ought to do in education, on health care, on infrastructure, and, most 
importantly, on the war in Iraq.

Today, as an example, we are simply trying to pass a technical 
corrections bill to a highway bill. Yet our Republican colleagues are 
filibustering and slow walking the legislation once again. Sixty-five 
filibusters.

We spend $3 billion a week in Iraq, with no questions asked. 
Halliburton can rob us blind, but we avert our gaze. But to try to 
build a road, a bridge, or some other public works in the United 
States, and you will meet with filibusters, delays, and obstructionism 
by the Republicans. In other words, taxpayers are paying $3 billion and 
building hundreds of water systems in Iraq--spending that money with 
Halliburton and Bechtel--and the money goes to these contractors 
instead of that money coming back to local businesses and building 
water and sewer systems in Defiance, Findlay, Bryan, Napoleon, and 
Perrysburg, OH--places that are being squeezed and are not able to 
afford the reconstruction of the water and sewer systems they need.

We should be doing a lot more construction and a lot less 
obstruction. Our roads and bridges, in too many cases, are falling 
apart. If my colleagues don't like a project, they can make their case 
and offer an amendment instead of the obstructionism, instead of 
blocking these issues, instead of their 65 filibusters.

The American people are tired of this kind of delay. Their taxes 
should pay for a government that will work on their behalf, rather than 
only on behalf of the wealthiest and most powerful people in this 
country.

We cannot continue down a path that undermines the middle class. We 
cannot just hope for real economic recovery. You simply cannot get 
there from here.