# IRAQ
## `14afdead92aad3c174376d6111458404`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Madam President, about a week ago, I think it was on the 
23rd, my colleagues, the Senator from Nebraska, Mr. Ben Nelson, and the 
Senator from Maine, Ms. Collins, and I, together with several 
cosponsors, put into the Record a resolution--I underline put into the 
Record--so that all could have the benefit of studying it.

We three have continued to do a good deal of work. We have been in 
consultation with our eight other cosponsors on this resolution, and we 
are going to put in tonight, into the Record--the same procedures we 
followed before--another resolution which tracks very closely the one 
that is of record. But it has several provisions we believe should be 
considered by the Senate in the course of the debate. How that debate 
will occur and when it will occur. I cannot advise the Senate, but I do 
hope it is expeditious. I understand there is a cloture motion that 
could well begin the debate, depending upon how it is acted upon.

We have also had a hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee 
last Friday. We had a hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee 
again this morning. Friday was in open session. The session this 
morning was in closed session. The three of us, as members of the Armed 
Services Committee, have learned a good deal more about this subject 
and, I say with great respect, the plan as laid down by the President 
on the 10th of January. We believed we should make some additions to 
our resolution.

We have not had the opportunity, given the hour, to circulate this 
among all of our cosponsors so at this time it will not bind them, but 
subsequently, tomorrow, I hope to contact all of them, together with my 
two colleagues, and determine their concurrence to go on this one. I am 
optimistic they will all stay.

But let me give the Senate several examples of what we think is 
important in the course of the debate--that these subjects be raised. 
We put it before the Senate now in the form of filing this resolution, 
such that all can see it and have the benefit, to the extent it is 
reproduced and placed into the public domain. Because the three of us 
are still open for suggestions, and we will continue to have 
receptivity to suggestions as this critical and very important subject 
is deliberated by the Senate.


Our objective is to hope that somehow through our efforts and the 
efforts


of others, a truly bipartisan statement--I don't know in what form it 
may be made--a truly bipartisan statement can evolve from the debate 
and the procedure that will ensue in the coming days, and I presume 
into next week. We feel very strongly that we want to see our Armed 
Forces succeed in Iraq to help bring about greater stability to that 
country, greater security to that country, so that the current elected 
government, through a series of free elections--the current elected 
government can take a firmer and firmer hand on the reins of 
sovereignty. We believe if for political reasons all Members of the 
Senate go over to vote with their party, and the others go over to vote 
with their party, we will have lost and failed to provide the 
leadership I believe this Chamber can provide to the American people so 
they can better understand the new strategy, and that the President can 
take into consideration our resolution hasn't been changed.

We say to the President: We urge that you take into consideration the 
options that we put forth, the strategy that we sort of lay out, in the 
hopes that it will be stronger and better understood by the people in 
this country. Their support, together with a strong level of bipartisan 
support in the Congress for the President's plan, hopefully as slightly 
modified, can be successful. We want success, Madam President. We want 
success.

So that is the reason we come this evening. I am going to speak to 
one or two provisions, and my colleagues can address others.

First, the unity of command. We have a time-honored tradition with 
American forces that wherever possible, there be a unity of command 
from an American commander, whatever rank that may be, down to the 
private, and that our forces can best operate with that unity of 
command and provide the best security possible to all members of the 
Armed Forces that are engaged in carrying out such mission as that 
command is entrusted to perform.

A number of Senators, in the course of the hearing on Friday and the 
hearing this morning, raised questions about this serious issue of 
unity of command. I say serious issue because the President, in his 
remarks, described--and this is on January 10--described how there will 
be an Iraqi commander, and that we will have embedded forces with the 
Iraqi troops. Well, we are currently embedding forces, but I think the 
plan--and that is what I refer to, the President's announcement on 
January 10 in the generic sense as the plan--will require perhaps a 
larger number of embedded forces. But the plan envisions an Iraqi chain 
of command. The Iraqis indicated, in working with the President, this 
plan in many respects tracks the exchange of thoughts that the 
President and the Prime Minister have had through a series of meetings 
and telephonic conversations. So the plan embraces the goals of the 
Prime Minister of Iraq, the goals of our President.

But this is a unique situation where the Iraqis have a complete chain 
of command, from a senior officer in each of the nine districts in 
Baghdad, and the United States likewise will have a chain of command in 
that same district or such segments of this plan as the military 
finally put together--each will have a chain of command, the Iraqi 
forces and the United States forces.

In the course of the testimony that we received, particularly 
testimony from the retired Vice Chief of the U.S. Army on Friday 
afternoon, he was concerned, as a number of Senators are concerned--and 
our provision literally flags this, and flags it in such a way that we 
call upon the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff to look at that plan and to bring such clarification forward 
as may be necessary, and to do it in a way that will secure the safety 
of our forces, the protection of our forces, and yet go forward with 
this idea of a greater sharing of the command responsibility in the 
operations to take place in Baghdad. So we simply call on the 
administration to bring such clarification and specificity to the 
Congress and the people of the United States to ensure the protection 
of our force and that this command structure will work because I 
believe it doesn't have--I am trying to find a precedent where we have 
operated like this. I have asked the expert witnesses in hearings, and 
thus far those witnesses have not been able to explain the command 
structure that we have conceived, the concept of the plan of January 
10, just how it will work.

Likewise, we put in a very important paragraph which says that 
nothing in this resolution should be construed as indicating that there 
is going to be a cutoff of funds. Given the complexity of this 
situation, there has been a lot of press written on the subject of our 
resolution. Colleagues have come up to me and said: Well, can you 
assure me that this doesn't provide a cutoff of funds.

Now, the cutoff of funds is the specific power given under the 
Constitution to the Congress of the United States. I personally think 
that power should not be exercised, certainly not given the facts and 
the circumstances today where this plan--which I hope in some manner 
will succeed and we are working better with the Prime Minister and his 
forces. So at this point in time I think it is important that our 
resolution carry language as follows:




 The Congress should not take any action that will endanger 


 United States military forces in the field, including the 


 elimination or reduction of funds for troops in the field, as 


 such an action with respect to funding would undermine their 


 safety or harm their effectiveness in pursuing their assigned 


 missions.


So I think that very clearly eliminates any consideration there.

At this time I would like to yield the floor so that my colleagues 
can speak, and maybe I will have some concluding remarks.

I yield the floor.