# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `15317f8fedbc6aa1fcd535ce33032fe8`
`Mr. INSLEE â€” 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. INSLEE. Mr. Speaker, we here highly resolve that starting today 
we will no longer allow President Bush to make an infinite number of 
mistakes with an infinite number of our sons and daughters.

We know one thing, the President believes he has done a heck of a job 
in Iraq; the American people disagree. The people who are now doing our 
bidding in Iraq proudly are standing up for democracy, and we want some 
democracy here. We know that there is a difficult road to hoe in Iraq, 
but we know there should be an infinite wisdom in one source in 
America, and that is the American people.

There is no sovereignty, there is no king, there is no person who 
always does a heck of a job. When push comes to shove, we have got to 
listen to the American people, and the American people have spoken to 
us loudly. They have said it is time for the Iraqi leadership to quit 
fiddling around and form a government. And they know, as we do, as the 
retired generals who have come out full force and said that the 
American people are right, we cannot expect our service personnel to 
solve the political problem in Iraq. And now, 13 months have gone by 
since supposedly they formed this constitution and they were going to 
solve this problem of what to do with their oil, and they still haven't 
got an agreement. They are still fiddling around while our sons and 
daughters die.

Now, the troops and the generals understand that there is a message 
being sent by this resolution, and the message is to Maliki and the 
rest of the Iraqi leadership: You have got to stop fiddling around and 
form a government, and you have got to reach an agreement about oil. 
And until you do, there is going to be civil strife, civil war and 
Americans driving in the middle of that. This is a message to them: 
Solve this problem.