# IRAQ
## `160b201d3e78ffc2e785466df31cea20`
`Ms. STABENOW â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, on December 23, 1783, George Washington, 
having successfully led the Continental Army to victory in the 
Revolutionary War, appeared before the Continental Congress and 
resigned his commission as commander of the Armed Forces.

It was a quietly pivotal action in the history of our young country, 
an event so important in shaping the Nation that it is one of only 
eight moments in our history deemed worthy enough of gracing the walls 
of the Capitol rotunda.

A painting of Washington's historic act hangs not far from this 
Chamber alongside more well known moments in American history such as 
the signing of the Declaration of Independence and the Battle of Bunker 
Hill.

The precedent that Washington set on that December day was as 
revolutionary as it was clear: In the United States of America, the 
power to make and execute war will be held not by the military but 
instead by peacefully elected leaders sitting in a legislative body.

Washington understood that the will of the people--the will of the 
American people--shall be the guiding hand of government, even on 
questions of war and peace.

I wonder how President Washington would feel, I wonder what he would 
say to each of us today. First, I think he would be very proud of what 
has happened this afternoon in the House of Representatives, where they 
came together, after lengthy debate, to state their opinions about the 
most pressing issue of war, the war in Iraq. I am very proud that we 
saw the House of Representatives vote 246 to 182 to say, first, that 
they support the troops and, secondly, that they do not support the 
escalation of the war in Iraq.

Regardless of how each person voted today in the House, they took 
that vote. They were willing to stand up and be counted and give their 
opinion. I believe the majority of the American people--and their will, 
their belief--was represented in this vote today of 246 to 182.

What has happened in the Senate? Well, first of all, I commend our 
majority leader, Senator Harry Reid, for his perseverance, for his 
continuing effort to reach across the aisle with the minority leader to 
find a way to do the same thing the House has done. He has put forward 
numerous proposals, and, as late as yesterday, very simply and in a 
straightforward way, offerred us the opportunity to vote on a 
resolution opposing the escalation and one that supports the 
President's escalation. What could be more fair? What could be simpler? 
Yet we continue to see the minority block the efforts to bring us to a 
vote.

For over 2 weeks now, I have watched the Republican leadership engage 
in legislative games and political posturing to avoid taking a vote on 
the most pressing issue of our time, the war in Iraq. They say they 
support it, but they will not vote on a resolution, up or down, whether 
or not to support the President's escalation. I believe it is because 
they do not like what they know the outcome will be if we are able to 
have that vote. They have turned their backs on their responsibility to 
the people who elected them and to our troops because they may lose a 
vote.

Four years ago, 23 of us stood on the floor of the Senate and lost a 
vote. It was a vote to go to war. It was a vote to give the President 
the authority to go to war in Iraq. It was a tough vote. We knew we 
were not going to win that vote, but we all--those for and against--
made a determination and voted because we are elected officials, 
charged with overseeing the U.S. Armed Forces, and we had a 
responsibility to voice our opinions for the record on the question of 
war.

I have stood on the floor of the Senate time and time again to voice 
my opposition to this President's proposals of escalation--more of the 
same, calling it a different strategy, and yet doing the same thing 
over and over again. Sending more Americans into combat without a 
strategy for success will not improve the situation on the ground in 
Iraq. And it will not bring our men and women in uniform home any 
sooner.

Only the Iraqis can secure Iraq. Only the Iraqis can secure Iraq. We 
have heard that from generals and military experts and the Iraq Study 
Group and learned colleagues on both sides of the aisle. The American 
troops cannot be seen as a substitute for Iraqi resolve. Why would we 
go further down the path that has led us to this point? Why would we 
repeat our previous mistakes and call it a new strategy?

Unlike the President, all of us and our counterparts in the House 
will go home over recess and on weekends and face our constituents, our 
neighbors. We see them and talk to them at church, in the line at the 
bank, at our kids' schools, in the grocery store, and at countless 
events and meetings as we travel throughout our States.

And we are here because they elected us to be their voice.



This is not Washington, DC's, war. We may set policy here, we may 
make speeches here, and we may take votes here, this is America's war.

The men and women putting their lives on the line in Iraq every day 
are from our smallest neighborhoods and our biggest cities, from farm 
communities and factory towns, from places many of us have never heard 
of and few of us will ever go. Flint, Howell, West Branch, Hemlock, La 
Salle, Port Huron, Ypsilanti, Muskegon, Ann Arbor, Byron, Flushing, Bay 
City, Canton, Paw Paw, Lake Orion, Saginaw, Sand Creek--these are only 
some of the dozens of communities in my home State of Michigan that 
have given up a son or a daughter to this war.

We sit in this historic Capitol and argue over whether we should 
dignify this war with a simple vote, while these and other communities 
across the country bury their loved ones, while high schools hold 
vigils for alumni laid to rest too young, while churches comfort 
parishioners who have lost sons and daughters and husbands and wives 
and fathers and mothers.

We are the voice of these communities, of these towns and cities and 
counties. We were elected with their sacred trust to come here, to 
Washington, and to speak out for them, to make our mark for them on the 
issues that face this country. There can be nothing more important than 
the issue of war.

By continuing to stonewall a vote on this resolution, the Republican 
minority has stripped all of America of their voice in this debate. 
They have said to the people who elected us that this issue--the issue 
of an escalation of war--is not important enough for their elected 
representatives to consider.

Too often in the white noise of politics we lose sight of the 
responsibility we bear. We get bogged down in the politics of 
partisanship and lose sight of why we were elected. We owe it to the 
American people to take this vote. This is the most serious issue of 
our time. There is nothing more important or more pressing than our 
Nation being at war. It is the responsibility of the Congress to engage 
in shaping policy concerning the war on behalf of the American people.

Let me take a few moments to remind everyone what is really at stake. 
While some posture and jockey for legislative position, lives are on 
the line this moment and every moment the war goes forward. It doesn't 
matter if you support or oppose the war. Anyone involved in slowing a 
vote on this resolution should be ashamed. Our military has not failed 
us at any turn in this endeavor. But we are failing them as a body by 
failing to lead. What is at stake?

On January 21, the Grand Rapids Press published the following account 
on the war in Iraq:




 The first roadside bomb four months ago knocked a front 


 tire off Kyle Earl's Humvee, rang his head like a bell and 


 made his ears bleed.



 The second bomb a couple of weeks later blew out the front 


 tires and took out the transmission but, again, spared Earl 


 serious injury.



 The third one, on Oct. 17, was his last.



 With the headlights out for security and wearing night-


 vision goggles, the 20-year-old Marine lance corporal from 


 Cedar Springs was driving the lead Humvee returning from a 


 night patrol in Iraq's Al Anbar province near the border with 


 Syria. He and a Marine manning the Humvee's machine gun saw 


 it at the same time: a hump in the road ahead, a sure sign of 


 a buried improvised explosive device (IED).



 Earl instantly made the calculation: If he swerved, the 


 trailing Humvee carrying the company commander would hit the 


 IED, so ''I drove right into it, knowing it was probably 


 going to kill me,'' he said.



 He ran over the hump, igniting three 155-mm artillery 


 shells and five propane tanks. The flash, amplified by the 


 night-vision goggles, was brighter than anything he'd ever 


 seen. A fireball shot through the cab, and shrapnel pierced 


 his right leg, arm and face. The shock wave felt like someone 


 had placed him inside a plastic bag and sucked out all the 


 air.



 Still, he remained conscious, as the Humvee rolled off the 


 road and came to a stop. Blood streamed from his eyes, ears 


 and nose. He reached for his 9 mm handgun, but noticed 


 something about the size of his palm on it. He picked it up 


 and examined it, unaware it was a chunk of his flesh, ripped 


 from his right forearm.



 He smelled something burning and realized he and the Humvee 


 were on fire. He rolled out onto the ground as his fellow 


 Marines kicked him to extinguish the flames.


We are here because of that lance corporal. He and his comrades, the 
men and women serving, deserve our best--our best judgment, our best 
decisions, our best funding, our best strategy for them.

On November 16, 2006, the Detroit Free Press gave us this insight 
into life on the ground in Iraq:




 ''A few days ago, from out of a crowd of kids, one of them 


 threw a grenade and it went off under the vehicle, and my 


 executive officer's door was peppered,'' said Lance Cpl. 


 Michael Rossi, a 28-year-old student majoring in urban 


 planning at Wayne State University who lives in Detroit. ''A 


 crowd of kids, and one of them threw a grenade.''



 ''Out here,'' he said, ''nobody is safe.''


On January 5, the editorial page of the Flint Journal paid its 
respects to one of Flint's fallen sons:




 It's touching and laudable that the father of Marine Cpl 


 Christopher Esckelson would want the family of a fellow 


 Marine to understand the full heroics these men displayed in 


 Iraq combat that claimed both their lives.



 They are among more than a dozen local military men whom 


 the Iraq war has claimed, with each succeeding loss being no 


 less painful to an area that has supplied an ample measure of 


 these patriots.



 Of course, the grief is much greater for the families who 


 knew the men in so many other wonderful ways. Those memories 


 undoubtedly will be recalled during services for Miller and 


 Esckelson Saturday and Sunday, respectively.


All of us have stories of the men and women who have served 
heroically and lost their lives, men and women who have come home and 
need our assistance now as veterans while in our hospitals and will 
forever carry a remembrance of this war through lost limbs and other 
health conditions. They deserve a vote on whether we believe this 
strategy for them and their colleagues is the right strategy. They 
deserve this. They expect us to stand up and speak out and work as hard 
as we can to get it right.

Too often on the floor of this Chamber and too often in politics, we 
use words such as ''bravery'' and ''toughness'' and resolve.'' We 
describe votes as ''tough.'' We describe speeches as ''brave.'' The men 
and women serving in combat know the real meaning of these words. They 
go about their dangerous duty with the pride of professionals. They 
live and work under the shadow of violence, never knowing what might be 
facing them around the next corner, and they do it with stoic resolve 
that reflects their character and their training. They do not have the 
luxury of picking and choosing when and where to fight. They go where 
their country sends them and stand shoulder to shoulder with their 
brothers and sisters in arms and face whatever is thrown at them. What 
we consider heroic, they consider doing their job.

Their sacrifices deserve and demand leadership, our leadership, 
collectively. We owe to it them and to every person we were elected to 
represent to vote on this resolution, to take a stand about how this 
war will proceed. It is our job. It is time to stop stalling and face 
our responsibility, a responsibility that pales in comparison to that 
which is taken every day by our troops in Iraq.

I thank the Chair.