# SUPPORTING NATIONAL POW/MIA RECOGNITION DAY
## `165acd419c8b31417f01a83a0ff2d9af`
`Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia â€” 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. I rise today in support of H. Res. 1630, a 
resolution expressing support for National POW/MIA Recognition Day.

Mr. Speaker, as Members of Congress our most solemn obligation is to 
defend the United States and protect the American people from those who 
would do them harm. But we merely make national security policy. The 
men and women in uniform who shoulder the burden of defending our 
nation--who fight and sacrifice around the world on our behalf--they 
are the tip of the spear, who risk life and limb to keep us safe.

Those American warriors who are captured or missing in action must be 
honored, and this resolution does honor them. We extend the gratitude 
of this body and the nation to those who have served and continue to 
serve the United States in captivity to hostile forces as prisoners of 
war, and those who remain missing. But more importantly, we must make 
every effort to find and liberate them. American service men and women 
must know that they will not be forgotten. They will not be abandoned.

More than 138,000 members of the Armed Forces who fought in World War 
II, the Korean war, the Vietnam war, the cold war, the gulf war, and 
Operation Iraqi Freedom were detained or interned as POWs. Many of them 
endured unimaginable suffering. Today, more than 84,000 members of the 
Armed Forces remain unaccounted for. And there remain today members of 
the Armed Forces held captive in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, let us pause to honor those who have been captured or 
missing while serving our country at war. I urge my colleagues to 
support this resolution, a small token of our solemn appreciation.