# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `1661627e89792b5fcc073de96d5a9d9e`
`Mr. FOSSELLA â€” 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. FOSSELLA. Madam Chairman, today I rise in support of my amendment 
to the FY2009 Defense Authorization bill (amendment number 27), 
authorizing free mailing


privileges for the family members of our service men and women deployed 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. This amendment provides a tremendous 
opportunity for us to increase the morale of our troops overseas, 
which, as we are all aware, is necessary for having a confident and 
motivated military.

First, I would like to thank Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member Hunter, 
Personnel SubCommittee Chairwoman Davis and of course my fellow New 
York colleague, Ranking Member McHugh for their help in cultivating 
this amendment. I drafted this amendment in response to concerns 
expressed to me by many military families that it was becoming too 
costly to send regular care packages to loved ones overseas. I heard 
story after story of families, already finding it hard to make ends 
meet, having to spend as much as $1,500 a year to mail care packages. 
Each package our men and women in uniform receive arrives with a touch 
of home. Personal items in these packages, like pictures, cards and 
school, projects from their children make deployments much more 
bearable.

Mail from home also serves a second and important purpose providing 
our military men and women with basic necessities like shampoo, foot 
powder, phone cards and even the ever essential fly paper.

In my district of Staten Island and Brooklyn, local residents joined 
together and raised money to help military families send these packages 
over seas. I was inspired by the outpouring of support for our service 
men and women in Dyker Heights, Brooklyn, where postal service 
employees raised money to cover the postage for every package sent to 
our troops. In Staten Island, residents formed Staten Island Project 
Homefront, Incorporated: a non-profit organization dedicated to serving 
our deployed troops and their families by sending thousands of care 
packages to the troops in theater. This month alone, over 200 packages 
were mailed overseas by this group with a postage cost of over $2,000.

It was these acts of great generosity and patriotism which prompted 
me to advocate for this essential program in Congress.

This amendment has received the support of organizations such as the 
VFW, American Legion, and the National Association of Uniformed 
Services. To quote the VFW, ''letters and packages from home do wonders 
in boosting the morale of our men and women serving in harms way, and 
high morale transfers to combat ready and effectiveness.'' Comments 
such as this, I whole heartedly agree with.

I recently heard from Debbie Parsons from Staten Island; Debbie had 
two sons in the Marine Corps serving in Iraq; both of whom will return 
for their second tours in the fall. Six days a week Debbie volunteers 
her time at Staten Island Project Homefront, packing boxes to send over 
to our troops. She would hear from her sons regularly and they often 
request she send supplies such as snacks, Power bars, soft drinks, 
books and foot powder, among other things. Prior to the donations from 
Staten Island Project Homefront, the packages she sent to her sons cost 
hundreds of dollars every month.

It goes without saying our servicemen and women are making enormous 
sacrifices fighting the War on Terrorism and defending freedom and 
liberty. They face great challenges under trying circumstances, and 
often without the benefit of basic necessities like socks and foot 
powder. It falls upon their families to get them these supplies and to 
cover the cost of shipping them overseas. This amendment will help make 
life a little better for our soldiers and ease the financial burden on 
those supporting them. It is a simple way to bring a touch of home to 
America's heroes overseas.

I urge my colleagues to support this amendment and provide our 
military families an easier path to sending a piece of home to their 
loved ones.