# None
## `16dd87cc132a475803bfe7c458e0eae5`
`Mr. ACKERMAN â€” 15 October 2007`

---


Mr. ACKERMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
resolution, and yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, when the House last discussed Lebanon on September 25, 
I said that Lebanon was being bullied. That statement, though true, is 
insufficient. Lebanon is not being harassed by invisible unworldly 
forces. Lebanon is not a victim of fate or destiny or bad luck. 
Lebanese politicians and public figures, beginning with Rafiq Hariri 
and continuing to this day, are not being assassinated and blown away 
by falling meteors or volcanic eruptions. Arms do not appear in Lebanon 
by magic. Hezbollah's billions do not fall from the sky like rain. 
Palestinian terrorist groups don't find rifles falling out of trees or 
by the side of the road. The Fatah al-Islam and its war against the 
Lebanese state were not the product of spontaneous auto-genesis. Like 
maggots, their origin can escape the casual observer, but their birth 
was no accident or mystery.

Madam Speaker, Syria and Iran are responsible for these crimes. Syria 
and Iran are responsible for the chaos. Syria and Iran are to blame for 
the shadow of civil war that hangs over Lebanon. Lebanese politics are 
complex, and the interaction within and among confessions is daunting 
for the outside observer to contemplate. Where interest and principle 
merge and depart is hard to judge. But we know some things about 
Lebanon for certain, and they are spelled out clearly in the resolution 
at hand.

Despite Lebanon's Constitution, Syria demanded the extension of 
President Emile Lahoud's term in 2004, and Damascus got its way. The 
principal opponent of this grotesque intrusion into Lebanon's affairs 
was Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri. There is credible evidence uncovered 
by U.N. investigators showing that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 
first threatened and then ordered the assassination of Rafiq Hariri for 
his defiance of Syrian diktat.

Madam Speaker, in response to the murder of Hariri, and, let us 
remember, 22 other civilians, the Lebanese rose up against their Syrian 
overlords and demanded, with the full support of the international 
community, the expulsion of Syria's occupational forces. A new 
government was formed through a free and fair election led by Lebanese 
not in the service of Syria and not in the debt of Iran.

This development, both surprising and hopeful, of a Lebanon free to 
chart its own course, was one that Syria and Iran couldn't tolerate. In 
their minds, Lebanon is a fiefdom, a toy. Lebanon is a playground for 
their ambitions and a canvas on which to splash their rage and hatred 
for the United States and Israel in the modern world.

Madam Speaker, Lebanon, in the minds of Syria's overlords and Iran's 
ayatollahs, is not for the Lebanese. This intolerance, this greedy 
self-interest, this bitter contempt for the rights of others is why we 
are speaking of Lebanon in the U.S. House of Representatives again 
today.



Lebanon is in grave peril. Lebanon's independence and sovereignty are 
under attack by Syria and Iran and their bootlicking Lebanese proxies, 
Hezbollah, Amal and the Aounist bloc. Extralegally demanding control of 
the presidency, and threatening civil war, this coalition of the wicked 
and the selfish have again brought chaos, violence and terror to 
Lebanon. It need not be so. It should not be so.

Syria and Lebanon are responsible for the crisis in Lebanon. Syria 
and Iran are responsible for the crisis in Lebanon. They have trampled 
on Lebanon's sovereignty and clearly violated U.N. Security Council 
resolutions protective of Lebanon. They are the puppet masters pulling 
on the strings of Hezbollah, Amal and Aoun. The assassinations of 
Lebanese members of Parliament are their work. The bombings are their 
work. The threats to establish an extra-legal second government are 
their work.

Madam Speaker, there is no mystery here. There is evil, there is 
greed, there is indecency, and, were I Lebanese, I might say treason as 
well. But there is no mystery. Syria and Iran are attacking Lebanon's 
sovereignty no less than if they sent a fleet of bombers, or a wave of 
tanks, or a swarm of infantry. That this aggression, this naked 
aggression is being done by proxies, and by terrorists, by car bombs, 
by telephone threats does not make it any less aggression, or any less 
a crime.

Many vital interests of the United States are at stake. If we want 
every nation to be secure in its own borders, we cannot tolerate cross-
border aggression. If we want to see the Middle East at peace, we 
cannot tolerate the resumption of Syrian and Iranian control of 
Lebanon. If we want to encourage self-governance around the world, we 
cannot tolerate Lebanon's democracy being subverted by thugs and 
fanatics. If we want to see people rising up against tyranny, as they 
are today in Burma, we cannot tolerate the reversal of Lebanon's 
glorious Cedar Revolution. If we want to see the United Nations become 
a true guardian of peace, we cannot tolerate the will of the 
international community being scorned by rogue states.

Madam Speaker, America must lead. Even today, even with Iraq, there 
is still no other state that can mobilize the international community 
as can the United States, and the hour is desperate. Only if they are 
convinced that the world will not tolerate their aggression against 
Lebanon, will Syria and Iran back down. This outcome is not impossible.

The stakes are exceedingly high. It is my hope that the Lebanese 
Government and the Bush administration will see this debate in the 
House as proof that Congress is watching closely and that we stand 
ready to help secure Lebanon's future as an independent and sovereign 
state. If we want to end the bloodshed in Lebanon and foreclose the 
prospect of still greater violence, we must act now and in concert with 
the community of nations.

There is wide support for Lebanon both in Europe and the Arab and 
Muslim world, just waiting for a catalyst to give it expression. 
America must be that catalyst. We are here today to sound the wake-up 
call. A brighter future for Lebanon, for the Middle East, and for 
ourselves awaits our clarion call.

Madam Speaker, I urge our colleagues to support the resolution.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.