# None
## `16fb7b4d2c6a273c1b15bb9faf56e40c`
`Mr. COBURN â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. COBURN. Madam President, I do not speak very often on the floor 
on issues such as that we are talking about today. We have a wonderful 
heritage in this country, and somehow we find ourselves in the midst of 
a mess. We find ourselves in a position where we have made decisions, 
some of them poor, some of them good, but we find ourselves--and I 
agree--at a crossroads.

The question in front of us is threefold: One is we have a plan which 
we instituted less than a month ago and that we set up early this year, 
which we are now wanting to change with the Reed-Levin amendment before 
we have data to tell us one way or another, and that is debatable. We 
have a large number of Americans who have given the ultimate sacrifice 
in the war in Iraq. But the question before us is what is the world 
like today? What is it that is going to change if we leave Iraq? What 
are the consequences?

Senator Lieberman spoke very eloquently about what the plans of al-
Qaida are and what they have told us, but what happens to the Middle 
East when we leave?

I am reminded of the history of this country that we do not walk away 
if we have a mess and allow millions of people to die and millions of 
other people to be displaced without having a strategy that will solve 
that situation. And I do not see that in the Reed-Levin amendment.

I know the contention is that because we are there, we incite more 
violence; because we are there, al-Qaida has focused there. But the 
very thing we attempted to do in Afghanistan, we will recreate the 
situation prior to our going into Afghanistan if we leave Iraq. But the 
more important question for me is: Do we as a nation have a moral 
obligation, regardless of the past?

The fact is we are in Iraq today and some situations are improving 
and some are not improving nearly as fast as any and all of us want. 
But is there a moral obligation for this country not


to allow this to lead to 2 to 3 million deaths, not to allow for sure 
the 450,000 people who have been successful helping us who will come 
under the threat of death, not to allow the displacement of another 2 
to 5 million Iraqis out of Iraq? Do we have a moral obligation not to 
allow Iran to be in control and use Iraq as a basis for their dominance 
of the Persian Empire again in the Middle East? Is there any obligation 
for us in that regard? I think there is.

I look at the situation in Iraq as a cancer, as a physician and also 
as a cancer survivor. There is lots wrong in Iraq right now. We are at 
the point where we have to make very hard choices about whether the 
patient can be saved. My concern is that because the treatment is 
tough, because the risk of the treatment is high, we are to the point 
where we are going to let the patient die. The fact is the patient does 
not have to die.

I do not dispute my colleagues who have a different opinion on where 
we should go in Iraq. What I do dispute is whether we recognize fully 
the obligations we have for the future.

What is going to happen as we withdraw? Can anybody in this body 
guarantee to me 2 or 3 or 4 years later down the road that we are not 
going to put a whole lot of American lives at risk because of the 
decision we made to turn off the chemotherapy, to turn off the 
radiation for the patient? What we are saying is, we are going to 
ration this; we started down the road, but we are not going to finish 
it.


There has not ever been a time in my life, being alive during the 
Korean war, the Vietnam war, and this war, that I have not seen 
controversy about any war we have been in. Anybody who has been around 
those three wars knows that is the truth. The question for me is what 
is the best long-term--long-term, not short-term--policy for our 
country in terms of stabilizing the Middle East? What is the moral 
obligation for us as a nation? Having invaded Iraq and set in motion 
many of these situations, how do we measure it and how do we live up to 
the heritage we have as a country that stands to fulfill moral 
obligations?

I have to answer a couple of statements that were made earlier. Any 
innuendo that members of the Republican conference are having their 
arms twisted to support the President in this war is a bold face 
misrepresentation of the facts. On issues such as this, all my 
colleagues know nobody is twisting their arm to be against it and no 
one is twisting my arm to support the policy. As a matter of fact, the 
statement by the Senator from Ohio that Vice President Cheney comes in 
every week and gives us a pep talk on the issue--I have been attending 
the conference for 2/1/2/ years, and I heard him speak once in 2/1/2/ 
years on Iraq. So the politics of negative comments taken out of 
context should be labeled what they are.

The other fact I know, the Senator from New Jersey talked about maybe 
more of the Members of the Senate should have our children in Iraq. I 
know the Presiding Officer had a son recently return, but I know there 
are people in this body who have children in Iraq--one of Senator 
McCain's sons is due to ship out this month--who have an opinion, a 
different opinion than what the Reed-Levin amendment would consider.

So I think it is highly unfair to speculate as to what I think is 
divided with those who have had children with this experience.

There are some facts I do know about our country. I do know the war 
is tearing at the fabric of our Nation. I do know that we as a nation 
are war weary. I think we ought to talk about what is great about our 
country, what is good about the military.

My impression from being in Iraq and here is I do not know of finer 
individuals in our country than those who are serving in the military. 
I can also tell you I do not know of more informed citizens of all the 
issues that face our country than the military.

We have made a lot of mistakes in the policy in the Middle East, 
there is no question. I think we can agree with that point, and I think 
we can all admit to it. But it does not change where we are and what 
the consequences are if we leave.

I served as a medical missionary in Iraq after the first gulf war. I 
developed friendships with Kurds and Shia and Sunni. We talk in the 
abstract over here about the Iraqi people and their leadership. But I 
wish to tell my colleagues, I didn't see a whole lot of difference in 
what those people wanted and what we want for our families. For us to 
speak in a sterile way that there will be no impact whatsoever on all 
those Iraqis, no matter what their faith or their heritage, belies the 
fact that millions will die. That is not my estimate, that is the 
estimate of many very learned scholars on the Middle East.

We heard this week a mention from the Secretary General of the United 
Nations advising against a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq in terms of 
how that would play out in the Middle East.

I think of the children that I did skin grafts on in Iraq who are now 
in their middle twenties, and the hope that they have for a safe and 
secure freedom, to actually have a Government that is a function of the 
beliefs of the multitudes who live in Iraq. Despite all our mistakes, 
should their hopes be dashed?

We look at the sacrifices, we look at the moneys we have spent, but 
we never look at it in terms of the lives of the Iraqis. The contention 
is we cause more violence because we are there than what will happen 
when we withdraw. If I could know for sure that what the experts tell 
us is wrong and millions of Iraqis will not die, I could probably be in 
agreement with some of the positions of those who want to change our 
course right now. But I don't know that and, as a matter of fact, the 
experts say the exact opposite will happen and millions will die. So we 
do have a moral obligation.

The other question we ought to bring forward is the contention we 
want to change the rules of the Senate on a vote tonight when everybody 
knows that a cloture vote and a requirement of 60 votes on major issues 
has been the rule of the Senate for years. It is a precedent 
longstanding that we have found on both sides of the aisle, no matter 
who is in charge, works well on contentious issues.

The vast majority of Republicans are ready to vote on cloture 
tonight. We didn't have that opportunity. We are going to vote on 
cloture tomorrow morning at 11. But we also know that if cloture fails, 
we probably will not be on the Defense bill.

The question I have for my colleagues is, they control the Armed 
Services Committee. They wrote the Defense authorization bill. Why in 
the world, when our troops need guidance, when we need new 
reauthorizations, when we need items for the military that are highly 
important to the success now, not just in Iraq but throughout the 
world, would we pull a bill and not continue to work on it?

As a matter of fact, this debate, which we had 2 months ago and now 
are having again, is keeping us from doing some of the business we need 
to be doing in terms of observing and doing oversight of the Federal 
Government.

This Defense authorization bill has $13 billion worth of earmarks, 
earmarks that the Pentagon does not want, but we want, we want for 
constituencies, we want for campaign supporters, we want because we 
know better--the very type of thing that is going to hurt in the long 
run the confidence of the people in this Chamber. So instead of 
continuing to work on the Defense authorization bill, it is going to 
get pulled in the morning and we are going to go to higher education 
reconciliation.

The question we ought to be asking and what the American people ought 
to ask is, because one vote fails on cloture, do we not have an 
obligation to go on and authorize defense expenditures? I believe we 
do. One vote should not make or break that bill. It was not part of the 
original Defense authorization bill that came out of committee. Why 
would we not continue to work on it and give our military the 
authorization to do what they need to do in the future?

Someone asked me earlier today if this was a political stunt? No, I 
don't think so. I think we need to have this debate. I think the more 
the American people learn about what the consequences are when we leave 
Iraq, the more likely they are to have a second thought about the 
pressure and tension they feel on this terrible situation. And as they 
learn what the consequences will be and also see a perspective about


at least giving General Petraeus until September 15, as they hear that 
debate, I think minds will be changed or at least attention will be 
turned to it.

A couple of things that I think also ought to be asked on the Reed-
Levin amendment are, How does the Reed-Levin amendment address Iranian 
influence in Iraq in the future? How does the Reed-Levin amendment 
address increasing Iranian influence in the region, including Iran's 
adverse influence on the Arab-Israeli peace process? How does the Reed-
Levin amendment guard against a regional conflict? If the policy of the 
Reed-Levin amendment became law, would the United States stay out of 
the humanitarian catastrophe and ethnic cleansing that will surely 
follow with a precipitous withdrawal of U.S. forces? If the policy of 
the Reed-Levin amendment became law, would the United States offer 
financial assistance to neighboring countries forced to absorb the 
massive number of refugees fleeing such a conflict? If the policy of 
the Reed-Levin amendment became law, what would the cost be to the U.S. 
Treasury in lives if the United States eventually had to return to the 
Middle East, in terms of forces?

I don't think those questions can go unanswered in this debate, and 
yet they have not been addressed. What we do know is we have a 
tinderbox. What we don't know, but some are suggesting, is the 
tinderbox will quiet down if we leave. If we leave, I hope they are 
right. I don't think they are right.

I think this is a time that will really test the mettle of this 
country. I think the conflict we see over the debate in this body is 
not bad for our country; I think it is good for our country. It is one 
of the attributes that make us strong.

Leaving Iraq, losing in Iraq will be terrible for our country in the 
long run--not in the short run but in the long run. It will limit our 
influence in the Middle East. It will limit the trust and viability of 
our Nation with every other nation under which we have any type of 
security arrangement. But most importantly, it will put us back 10 to 
15 years in terms of doing what we need to do in the world.

Senator Durbin and I are working hard on the Darfur situation. Darfur 
is going to seem like a blip on a screen compared to what is going to 
happen in Iraq when we leave.

What we do know is what is happening in Iraq today, the concentration 
of the violence, especially the suicide bombers. Two things are 
happening. One is they are moving away from the areas in which the 
surge is employed. That is why you see Kirkuk the first time hit. But 
we also know that 85 percent of the suicide bombers aren't Iraqis; they 
are al-Qaida, from outside of Iraq. I suspect they are going to 
overplay their hand like they did in Anbar Province, which is why those 
Sunnis now are allied with coalition forces.

So I would ask the Members of this body, No. 1, to not assume that 
any of us who support the present course until September in Iraq have 
had our arms twisted. We have not. We actually believe it is the best 
policy. I don't believe we need to have our moral compass checked, as 
suggested by the Senator from New Jersey. We just happen to have a 
difference of opinion. And the difference really doesn't stem on any 
factual basis, but it stems on long-range versus short-range thinking.

When I took the oath for this office, my oath was to uphold the 
Constitution and to do what was best for the country--not for my 
political career, not what will win the next election, not what will 
get me more seats in the Senate, but what I truly thought in my heart 
and mind would be great and best for this country.

The Iraq war is a perplexing situation for all of us. I believe it is 
wrong for us to stop in the middle of a surge that is having some 
progress. Not what we would like, maybe, not to the degree we would 
like, but for the first time, in approximately 2 years, it is making 
positive things out of things that were very negative.

It is my hope that as we continue this debate, we will recognize that 
the most important question is, Then what? What happens if the Reed-
Levin amendment becomes law? What happens to our military? What happens 
in the Middle East? What happens in Iran, which is now known to be 
training a vast number of people to influence the outcome? What happens 
to the morale of our military? What happens to our relationship with 
allies around the world when we can no longer be counted on as a 
reliable partner? What next?

That is the question we should be debating--what next? What are the 
consequences of not fulfilling a moral obligation to clean up a mess we 
helped create? You can say we don't have that obligation, but we do. 
History will judge this Nation on how it handles this situation. We 
may, in fact, walk away, but if we did, and if we do, I believe we 
belie the heritage of the sacrifice that has been made by so many 
people for so many years in our history that predates us.

Madam President, I yield the floor.