# IRAQ
## `1737e0234b540698cf36dc70746cf4f9`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia â€” 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Thank you very much. It is indeed a pleasure to 
be on the floor with you, gentlelady and good friend from Ohio. You are 
doing a wonderful job in leading this hour.

To the Congressional Black Caucus and the leadership of the 
Congressional Black Caucus, America must take its collective hats off 
to the Congressional Black Caucus for from the very beginning it has 
been the Congressional Black Caucus that has provided the leadership in 
speaking out on this war in Iraq and in speaking out from a standpoint 
of what is wrong with it. And I am proud to be on the floor with you 
this evening.

I thought that I might come at this from the perspective of where I 
sit in the Congress. I was not here when the actual vote took place 6 
years ago to commit our forces to Iraq. I was a part 5 years ago coming 
into Congress with that first class that came in after 9/11, and it was 
an extraordinary time. But I think it's very good for us, as we look at 
this situation in Iraq, to be able to reflect from it. My father always 
would tell me, Son, the best way for you to get out of a problem is to 
remember how you got into it in the first place. And it might be good 
for us to do that.

I happen to serve on the Foreign Affairs Committee. I am the vice 
chairman of our Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, 
Nonproliferation, and International Trade. I also am a member of the 
NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and I am the co-chairman of our Democratic 
group on National Security. I mentioned those positions that I work 
with here in the Congress so that you can understand the perspective 
from which I come to this very important issue of Iraq. And let me just 
state at the very beginning, as I said, it's good to know how you got 
into a situation.

There is one profound fact that happened on 9/11. On the very day of 
9/11 after a conference in the White House between our Vice President 
Cheney, Defense Secretary Rumsfield, and Deputy Defense Secretary 
Wolfowitz, collectively they said these words: Iraq must pay for this. 
That's very profound. On the day of the 9/11 attack, the basic 
architects of this policy said, without one iota of evidence, without 
one iota of anything, Iraq must pay for this. Not even knowing it was 
al Qaeda, but automatically.

Now, I mention that simply because, as I said, we have got to know 
how we got into a situation to know how we get out of it. That's very 
profound. The reason I mention that is that from the very beginning 
there has been a line of direct effort by some, the major architects of 
this most misguided foreign policy, to equate Iraq with the war on 
terror. A colossal mistake and the history books will reflect that. We 
then prepared to go in and attack a country that did not attack us.

I am on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and last week I sat with great 
admiration and I truly believe I have great admiration for General 
David Petraeus. He's a general, he's a soldier's soldier, and he is 
doing and has done a remarkable job, as have all of our military. But 
as I sat there and I watched him, this general, my mind went back to 
another general at the beginning of this by the name of Colin Powell. 
Here was the same situation. After 9/11 we sat there and a general was 
put in front of us to sell us on going to war with Iraq, with 
information and intelligence that many in the administration knew was 
not true. The books that are pouring out now by the bushel tell us that 
everybody, from the CIA to the Defense Department to so many who were 
saying this, in other words, that the intelligence books were cooked. 
Not a single person from Iraq came over to us and asked us, Come over 
to our country and turn us into a democracy.

No, this was a war of choice based upon lies and deceit, and that is 
why this will go down in history as the biggest foreign policy blunder 
in the history of these United States. Make no mistake about it.

So the question has to be now, why? Here we are in Iraq on lies and 
misinformation that are out now by the book loads; so we can't deny it.



And the American people know it. And they are expecting this Congress 
of the United States to stand up to this White House and say, ''No 
more.''

Let me tell you something, folks; I've been over there to Iraq, three 
times I've been over there. I have met with our soldiers, I have eaten 
with them. But the most important part of my trips over there was not 
to Camp Victory or to the Green Zone or to Baghdad. Even my meetings 
with General Casey, General Abizaid, all of them, which I cherish and I 
have pictures and all of that, and even the meeting I had with one 
soldier from Georgia who came up to me and hugged me with tears 
streaming down his eyes, tears streaming down my eyes, and he said to 
me, Congressman Scott, when I'm hugging you, it's like I'm hugging a 
piece of home. I can't tell you how I felt.

But ladies and gentlemen, let me just tell you the most significant 
parts of these trips was on the way back. Each stop that I went over to 
go to Ramstein Air Base, Landstuhl, that's the hospital, that's the 
medical center. That's where they come, the injured come when they are 
injured in down country, as they call it, in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
That's where they are. You want to know about this war, you want to 
know why this war needs to be ended, that's the story, to look into 
these 18- and 19- and 20- and 21-year-old kids' eyes, half their heads 
blown off, arms missing, blind, and they ask the question, why? Why? 
Why are we here?

I'm telling you, somebody's going to have to answer that question. On 
the bleached bones of many past great civilizations and nations are 
written those pathetic words, ''Too late.'' They moved too late to 
correct a great wrong. I beg and I hope that this Congress has the 
resolve in it to not move too late now. The whole world is depending on 
us.

One of the things that President Bush did, and we've got to 
understand it, what he did in sending General Petraeus up is the same 
he did in sending Colin Powell up. And history is going to write it, 
not David Scott, not Mrs. Tubbs Jones, not this Congress, history is 
going to write that this President will go down in history as being a 
President that highly used and


misused our military. That is one of the greatest shames coming out of 
this Iraq situation.

And now, here we are in Iraq. I don't think the American people know 
that over one-half of our entire combat capacity is involved in Iraq. 
If I'm China, if I'm Russia, if I'm Iran, which they are, they're 
sitting back fat and happy, anxious to see us continue to run our 
military in the ground in this fruitless effort in Iraq. Soldiers, many 
of them on their third and fourth tours of duty. Fifteen months they've 
extended it to, not even giving an equal amount of time for rest 
because they know that the military is at the breaking point. No way we 
can continue this war. It will run our military into the ground.

And now let me just say one word about the President's move here. 
What this is is the President is saying to us, I'm not going to end 
this. It's not going to be on my watch. Even out of his own mouth he 
says we will hand this enduring relationship in Iraq over, as he says 
it, to my successor. That's what he said, to his successor.

So the American people have nixed that. The President is out of the 
picture, but we here in Congress are in the picture. It's up to us to 
not move too late. We must correct the direction we're headed, and the 
first order of business is to end this war in Iraq.