# BELATED THANK YOU TO THE MERCHANT MARINERS OF WORLD WAR II ACT OF 2007
## `175f27282570c7003b72e99de1ef5d12`
`Mr. FILNER â€” 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, before I get to these specific bills, let me 
just say, as chairman of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs, we 
are at a critical time in our Nation in dealing with our veterans. 
George Washington said it best over 200 years ago when he stated that 
''the morale of our active duty troops depends foremost on how they 
sense they're going to be treated when they come home.'' So we have a 
lot of work to do.

We have a Secretary who has announced his resignation. Recently, just 
last week, the Dole-Shalala Commission released its report on some 
major changes for the VA and the DoD for the way we deal with our 
veterans and our wounded warriors. We need someone in that position, I 
think, who will shake things up a bit, who will not only do the Dole-
Shalala recommendations, but go further and really talk to two 
bureaucracies that have to do business far better than what they do. 
Too often, VA means for our veterans ''veterans adversary'' instead of 
''veterans advocate.''

We have older veterans, like we're going to be dealing with in the 
bill up now, and we are going to have hundreds of thousands of new 
veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan. It's a critical job that we must 
do. And I always say, no matter where we are in the war in Iraq, we're 
going to make sure that every young man and woman who comes back from 
the war gets all the love, the care, the attention, the honor, the 
dignity that a Nation can bestow.

So we have a big job to do. And this package of bills we have today 
addressed both older veterans that we still have to care for and make 
sure any injustices that came up in their treatment are taken care of, 
as well as the needs that are so critical, whether they be brain injury 
or PTSD of the new veterans. We have to deal with both groups, and we 
have to do it right.

I want to speak now on H.R. 23, the Belated Thank You to the Merchant 
Mariners of World War II Act.

This is a bill that is six decades overdue, Mr. Speaker. And I think 
today we are on the verge of doing a historic thing, that is, providing 
a way to finally give the heroic merchant mariners of World War II the 
belated compensation that they've so richly earned and deserve.

I think this Congress not only has to treat those new veterans coming 
back from Iraq, but we have the responsibility to correct the wrongs of 
the past, and this is one of the grave injustices that deserves 
rectification.

There are over 250 Members of this House who have cosponsored H.R. 
23. But for those who haven't, let me tell you about the sad history of 
these forgotten heroes. The Merchant Mariners of World War II traversed 
the dangerous U-boat laden waters of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, 
faced down fierce attacks from enemy aircraft, and were instrumental in 
every theater of war by carrying 95 percent of all tanks, supplies and 
troops during World War II. As a result, they suffered the highest 
casualty rate of any of the military branches.

It is indisputable that the allied forces would not have been able to 
begin, sustain or end World War II in victory without their valiant and 
selfless service. It is also indisputable, Mr. Speaker, that these men 
now are entitled to be compensated for their service.

After the war, they did not receive the recognition as veterans, or 
the benefits of the unprecedented GI Bill of


1944, which, in many people's minds, they had earned. We all know the 
profound effects of that GI Bill on building the middle class. We all 
know that the education and ability to buy homes led to the creation of 
the success of the generations following World War II.

At the signing of that bill in 1944, the GI Bill, which gave these 
veterans unprecedented education, housing, small business loans and 
health benefits, President Roosevelt himself declared, ''I trust 
Congress will soon provide similar opportunities to members of the 
merchant marine, who have risked their lives time and time again during 
war for the welfare of their country.'' Succeeding Congresses up until 
now have never done that.

Their fight for equity continued for all the time since then, and 
even for the time after they finally attained veteran status after a 
lengthy court battle that was decided in 1987, which by then, 40 years 
after the war, over 125,000 merchant mariners had died.

We've had the distinct privilege at the Veterans' Affairs Committee 
of receiving the heart-wrenching testimony of some of these veterans, 
one of whom was a named party in the lawsuit which finally gave him 
veteran status, a merchant mariner named Stanley Willner. Stanley was 
captured, interned, beaten, starved and tortured as a POW for 3 years. 
In fact, he was actually one of the unfortunate groups of allied forces 
that were forced to build the infamous bridge over the River Kwai. Upon 
release, he weighed a mere 74 pounds. When he returned home, his wife 
didn't recognize him, but neither did his country. He received just 2 
weeks of medical care and little else for his service to this Nation. 
What a miscarriage of justice.

Mr. Speaker, it was only due to a sad confluence of powerful events 
after the war that this country did not bestow the brave men of the 
World War II Merchant Marine with veteran status. Their service was 
recognized by all the leaders of the Allied Forces from Generals 
MacArthur to Eisenhower.



I will include a list of quotes regarding their courageous service in 
the Record. I will also add a letter from the four maritime unions, the 
American Maritime Officers, the International Organization of Masters, 
Mates and Pilots, the Marine Engineers' Beneficial Association, and the 
Seafarers International Union, expressing their strong support for H.R. 
23, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, the time has come to right this enduring wrong. To me, 
failing to correct the injustice suffered by the merchant mariners for 
the past six decades is equivalent to an employer telling a group of 
20-year-olds at the same company doing the same job that 85 percent of 
them will receive additional health, education, housing, and loan 
assistance benefits for the rest of their lives for their service, but 
the remaining 15 percent would not. Then, over 40 years later, the 
employer is forced to recognize the mistake and informs the 15 percent, 
sorry, we will give you what has not expired, but nothing else.

Where is the fairness? Where is the equity? How do you measure the 
loss of these benefits, the missed opportunities and the dreams 
unrealized? That is what H.R. 23 tries to make up for, to create the 
semblance of equity that the mariners of World War II so richly deserve 
by providing a monthly stipend to qualifying mariners on a first-come-
first-served basis.



























July 27, 2007.


 Hon. Bob Filner,


 Chairman, Committee on Veterans' Affairs, House of 




 Representatives, Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. Chairman: We are writing on behalf of the 


 undersigned American maritime labor organizations to express 


 our strong support for H.R. 23, the ''Belated Thank You to 


 the Merchant Mariners of World War II Act of 2007'' as 


 amended. The organizations we represent have the privilege of 


 including among our retired and active seagoing members 


 individuals who served our country with honor and distinction 


 during World War II. These World War II merchant mariners are 


 truly representative of the ''Greatest Generation'', and we 


 are extremely proud of them and the example they have set for 


 all merchant mariners who continue to respond to our Nation's 


 call whenever and wherever they are needed.



 General Colin Powell, following the Persian Gulf War, said 


 that: ''Since I became Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 


 I have come to appreciate first-hand why our Merchant Marine 


 has long been called our Nation's fourth arm of defense. The 


 American seafarer provides an essential service to the well-


 being of our Nation as was demonstrated so clearly during 


 Operation Desert Shield and Desert Storm . . .''



 We agree wholeheartedly with you that the enactment of H.R. 


 23 is necessary ''to correct an injustice that has been 


 inflicted upon a group of World War II veterans, the World 


 War II United States merchant mariners.'' We sincerely thank 


 you, Mr. Chairman, for your initiative in working to address 


 this injustice by sponsoring legislation to provide long-


 overdue recognition and benefits to World War II merchant 


 mariners. We are also grateful to your colleagues who have 


 cosponsored H.R. 23 and for their decision to add their names 


 to the bipartisan supporters who are committed to working 


 with you and with us for the enactment of H.R. 23 this year.



 There is not, nor should there be, any debate as to the 


 invaluable service given by American merchant mariners during 


 World War II. In fact, World War II merchant mariners 


 suffered the highest casualty rate of any of the branches of 


 the Armed Forces, other than the United States Marine Corps, 


 as they delivered troops, tanks, food, fuel and other needed 


 equipment and material to every theater of World War II. 


 Enemy forces sank more than 800 merchant vessels between 1941 


 and 1944 alone.



 As General of the Army, Allied Expeditionary Forces in 


 Europe, Dwight David Eisenhower stated, ''When final victory 


 is ours there is no organization that will share its credit 


 more deservedly than the Merchant Marine.'' Fleet Admiral 


 Chester W. Nimitz, Commander-in-Chief, Pacific Theater, said 


 that ''The Merchant Marine . . . has repeatedly proved its 


 right to be considered as an integral part of our fighting 


 team.''



 General of the Army Douglas MacArthur, speaking of the 


 merchant seamen who supported the liberation of the 


 Philippines, stated that ''With us they have shared the 


 heaviest enemy fire. On these Islands I have ordered them off 


 their ships and into foxholes when their ships became 


 untenable targets of attack. At our side they have suffered 


 in bloodshed and death . . . They have contributed 


 tremendously to our success. I hold no branch in higher 


 esteem than the Merchant Marine Service.''



 Finally, President Franklin Roosevelt eloquently and 


 accurately summed up the contributions of America's World War 


 II merchant mariners, telling the country and the world that 


 they ''have written one of its most brilliant chapters. They 


 have delivered the goods when and where needed in every 


 theater of operations and across every ocean in the biggest, 


 the most difficult and most dangerous job ever taken.''



 Yet despite this record of exemplary, indispensable service 


 to America's war efforts, merchant mariners were not given 


 the formal recognition and benefits granted other services by 


 the Congress through the G.I. Bill of Rights in 1945. In 


 fact, no legislation to recognize the contributions made by 


 World War II merchant mariners was enacted until Congress 


 extended limited veterans' status to these gallant American 


 citizens in 1988.



 We believe, as you have stated Mr. Chairman, that it is 


 time to correct this injustice. We believe our country has an 


 obligation to the remaining World War II merchant mariners to 


 fully acknowledge their service and to give them the measure 


 of benefit called for in H.R. 23. We ask you and your 


 colleagues to take the first step in righting this wrong by 


 voting to pass H.R. 23 during its consideration by the House 


 of Representatives.



 We again thank you and the Members of your Committee for 


 the support you have shown for the World War II merchant 


 mariners. We stand ready to provide whatever additional 


 information you may need.





 Sincerely,


 Thomas Bethel,



 President, American Maritime Officers.


 Timothy A. Brown,



 President, International Organization of Masters, Mates & 


 Pilots.


 Ron Davis,



 President, Marine Engineers' Beneficial Association.


 Michael Sacco,



 President, Seafarers International Union.