# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `176cebacacd8c9a3e1bc6ce07f0d407d`
`Mr. COBURN â€” 14 February 2008`

---


Mr. COBURN. I would like to reclaim my time if I might. The fact is, 
we appropriate $280 billion a year in stuff that is not authorized 
right now. So we will not have any problem appropriating this money if 
we don't authorize it. A quarter of the discretionary budget is not 
authorized right now. We will not have any problem with that. My 
amendment says, on the areas the Senator just described, to do it only 
if it is geographically feasible. I recognize there are some places 
where we have isolated reservations and we have IHS. I am willing to 
put the money behind it, but I also realize more of the same doesn't 
get it done. So if we double Indian health care money, we are still 
going to have an inefficient system that will deliver care at a lower 
level than what you can get in the private sector.

What I am saying with my amendment is, let's have both. We ought to 
do both. I am making a statement on the Senate floor--and the Senator 
will recognize, I believe, that I usually keep my word about coming 
back and doing what I say I will do--I will work to get the extra $2 
billion, but an extra $2 billion in a broken system is not just money 
that is broken with IHS. I believe the chairman will agree. What I 
wanted to do is fix the system and increase the money, increase the 
choice and security that Native Americans are entitled to that all the 
rest of us have.

The fact is, if the only place a Native American can get care is IHS, 
that is not freedom. That is not the promise kept in its fullest bloom. 
It is saying, here is the only place you can get care. If the care 
happens to be great, super. But if the care happens to be average and 
they need better, they don't have that opportunity. If the care happens 
to be--and sometimes we know it is, like some of the cases the chairman 
has presented--when it is substandard and that is the only choice they 
have, that is not acceptable.

Let me finish my deal, and I will let you go and you can hammer me. I 
hope I can get you to come around. Maybe I would not get your vote. I 
know I will get your commitment to work toward it in the future. But I 
think just adding more money to IHS doesn't fix the problem. I 
described that earlier when I talked about 30 or 45 minutes. What this 
does is, it treats Native Americans like every other American. That is 
what this amendment does. It gives them choice. It gets them out of the 
prison we have placed them in that says: You only have one place you 
can go. And, by the way, if we run out of contract funds, even if you 
need to go somewhere else, you can't go.

Contract funds actually have run out on average in June. So for 5 
months of the year, when we need to send Native Americans somewhere 
else, we don't have the money to do it. So who suffers?

Under this system, you would not run out of contract money because 
you bought an insurance policy. You have given them the average cost of 
an individual insurance cost with what we are spending now on care.

By the way, I have another amendment where we describe what an Indian 
is because, in my State, we have people who are /1/512/th stepping in 
front of a full blood. And most people don't think somebody that is /5/
11/th out of /5/12/th ought to be getting full pay for their health 
care. And in fact, there are .12 of 1 percent Native blood. We call 
that light blood in Oklahoma. We have whole blood, mixed blood, and 
light blood in our State. It actually is very complicated because what 
is happening now, we have tribes that have quantums and say: If you are 
not a quarter or an eighth, you are not eligible. But under the IHS 
system, from some of the other tribes who have members who are /1/
512/th, they come down to their area and they get into IHS. So here is 
somebody with /1/512/th taking Indian dollars away from somebody who is 
a quarter or somebody who is a full blood.

What we have said is: Tribes, you have to decide who is an Indian. We 
actually have some people who are a thousand and 24th that we are 
giving full blown care to in Oklahoma. They have access to care 
somewhere else, but they don't want to pay the deductible or the copay. 
So they step in line in front of a full blood. We have to change that. 
We have to fix that. We have to fix that because our obligation has to 
be to the person with the most and then come down. So if we really have 
restricted dollars, what we have to say is, if you are below a certain 
level, you have to contribute something. That is the other way that we 
solve this problem. That doesn't demean the heritage of our Native 
Americans.

What that says is, the reality is, in 2016 in this country, we are 
going to be cutting spending all over the place because that is the 
year interest rises through the roof. That is the year we run out of 
Social Security with which


to pay for Medicare. That is the year in which for the projected 
spending, based on revenues, based on growth even at 4 percent, we 
start running trillion-dollar deficits--trillion-dollar deficits.


Have we ever asked ourselves why gold is worth four times more 
against the American dollar than it was 10 years ago? Do you think it 
has anything to do with people thinking we cannot pay back our debt?

So this idea that we are going to have more money in the future to do 
more things is not going to be there. We need to come to the reality of 
the situation. We need to start making some of the hard choices. To me, 
keeping our commitment to Native Americans has to be set up now; 
otherwise, it is not going to happen, and the funding is not going to 
get increased between now and 2016. Other than what we do this year, it 
is going to be hard. The money is going to be hard to get, even if we 
get out of Iraq.

We are going to get notice today on what I have been working on for 2 
years, talking to the Census Bureau about that they are going to be out 
of control and spend a whole lot more money. I am getting ready to get 
notice by the Secretary of Commerce--I have a meeting with him this 
afternoon--that there is going to be a close to $3 billion more pickup 
to do something we have to do because it has been totally mismanaged--
totally mismanaged. We have been having hearings for 2/1/2/ years on 
it, where they have been denying it, and now they are coming to say it 
has been mismanaged. They are coming to agree.

It is why oversight matters. Had we gotten some of the amendments 
through this body that we offered on the census, we would not be here. 
But, instead, we are going to spend $2 billion to $3 billion more 
because we did not pass the amendments offered based on oversight that 
we did in my committee.

The whole goal--I am not perfect. I am not right, necessarily, on how 
I want to do that. I will admit that to the chairman and ranking 
member. But I know more money does not solve the problem on this, and 
unless we create real freedom, real choice, and real health care 
security for Native Americans, we will never have an efficient IHS 
system, and we will never meet the commitments that we say we have.

So I will ask for the yeas and nays on this amendment. I will listen 
to the chairman. I do have a meeting at 2 o'clock I have to be at. 
Whenever the chairman would like to stack the votes, if we run others, 
I will be happy to work with whatever is his pleasure.

Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.