# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `1813b8669e266ccc58e2f711d308e1b8`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, over the last couple of months, we have 
been debating the policy in Iraq, and over the first 4 months of the 
110th Congress, the Senate has spent many days debating this policy. I 
and many other Senators believe we should move in a new direction and 
change the policy by transitioning the mission to training Iraqi 
forces, fighting terrorists, and protecting our troops and civilian 
personnel in Iraq.

As part of this new policy, we should have a phased redeployment 
strategy to begin the process of winding down the war to get our brave 
combat forces home. Our troops have accomplished every mission in Iraq. 
They have done their job. It is well past time that the President, his 
administration, and this Congress do our job as they have done their 
job in Iraq.

The war has diverted our attention and resources from the broader war 
against al-Qaida and its allies which continues unabated 5 years 
following the horrific events of September 11. Despite this 
administration's exaggerated rhetoric in the months leading up to our 
invasion, Saddam Hussein's regime


did not have any direct ties to al-Qaida, and our decision to topple 
his regime without international support drained resources from our 
ongoing efforts in Afghanistan. The Bush administration's inexcusable 
lack of planning for a postwar environment and the stunning 
incompetence in managing the occupation gave birth to a large, mostly 
Sunni-based insurgency in Iraq. This insurgency, aided by a steady flow 
of foreign fighters, is now giving birth to a new generation of al-
Qaida terrorists providing ideological inspiration for extremists 
around the world.

The Presiding Officer knows, as well as so many others, that contrary 
to the administration's rosy rhetoric in 2002 and 2003, the decision to 
invade Iraq has served as a major setback in our overall struggle 
against Islamic extremism and the terrorism that movement inspires. Dr. 
Bruce Hoffman, one of the world's leading experts on terrorism, who 
recently briefed me, has declared:




 The United States' entanglement in Iraq has consumed the 


 attention and resources of our country's military and 


 intelligence communities at precisely the time that Osama bin 


 Laden and other senior al-Qaida commanders were in their most 


 desperate straits and stood to benefit most from this 


 distraction.


For that reason, it is essential that we get our Iraq policy on the 
right path by beginning to redeploy our U.S. combat forces, emphasizing 
training of Iraqi security forces, protecting our forces, and engaging 
in targeted counterterrorism missions.

The war against al-Qaida and its extremist allies continues on 
multiple fronts around the world. This is a generational battle, so our 
Nation must respond accordingly. Vice President Cheney, seeking to 
validate the administration's counterterror efforts, declared last 
fall:




 I don't know how much better you can do than no attacks in 


 the last 5 years.


Every American is grateful that the Vice President's statement 
continues to hold true. We must salute those men and women in our Armed 
Forces, our intelligence community, and our law enforcement networks, 
from State and local police forces to the FBI, who have helped protect 
our Nation against further attacks. To take one example, it was 
skillful surveillance and old-fashioned gumshoe work on the part of the 
CIA and FBI agents, closely cooperating with their British 
counterparts, which allowed us to stop in its tracks a chilling plot to 
blow up as many as 10 airplanes crossing the Atlantic in August of 
2006.

Unfortunately, the absence of terrorist attacks in the United States 
does not signify any reduction in the overall threat posed by al-Qaida 
and its allies waging battle on behalf of Islamic extremism. The 
dangers our Nation still face today were brought home by two 
developments in recent days.

The Presiding Officer knows this well because of the State he 
represents. First, six men were arrested last week for conspiring to 
launch an attack on Fort Dix in New Jersey and ''kill as many soldiers 
as possible.'' This homegrown cell of Islamic extremists was broken up 
when two of the defendants sought to purchase assault weapons from an 
undercover FBI agent. They had engaged in small arms training at a 
shooting range in the Pocono Mountains in my home State of 
Pennsylvania.

Second, another development. Late last week the U.S. Embassy in 
Berlin issued a general threat warning indicating that a terrorist 
attack against U.S. military or diplomatic facilities in Germany may be 
in the final stages of planning. This plot may be linked to the 
upcoming G8 summit to be held in Germany later this summer.

We have all seen the press reports indicating fresh evidence that al-
Qaida is once again establishing training camps in southwest Asia, only 
this time in Pakistan, not Afghanistan. Although we achieved successes 
in late 2001 and 2002 in cutting off al-Qaida's hierarchy from its foot 
soldiers around the world and severing operational links inside the 
organization, these gains are slowly disappearing. Instead, we see the 
chain of command within al-Qaida reemerging with fresh evidence of 
plans of potential terrorist strikes in western Europe and perhaps even 
our own homeland.


Just listen to what the Director of National Intelligence, Mr. 
McConnell, declared in recent testimony to the Senate Armed Services 
Committee:




 We also have seen that al-Qaida's core elements are 


 resilient. They continue to plot attacks against our homeland 


 and other targets with the objective of inflicting mass 


 casualties. And they continue to maintain active connections 


 and relationships that radiate outward from their leaders' 


 hideout in Pakistan to affiliates throughout the Middle East, 


 northern Africa, and Europe.


The deadly reach of al-Qaida was reaffirmed with April's coordinated 
explosions in and around the capital of Algeria, killing 24 and 
wounding more than 200. A group calling itself al-Qaida in Islamic 
North Africa claimed responsibility for the blasts, a severe blow to a 
nation that was finally coming out of the ashes of the horrific civil 
war in the 1990s.

Mr. President, we know in order to neutralize this reconstituted and 
possibly more dangerous version of al-Qaida, the U.S. must embark on a 
global counterinsurgency campaign which recognizes that military force 
is an essential, but not sufficient, response to this threat. The U.S. 
must draw on all elements of our national power--military, political, 
and economic--in a coordinated campaign that seeks to deny refuge and 
sanctuary to al-Qaida forces wherever they reside.

The Third Way National Security Project recently released an 
insightful report that calls for a global constriction strategy against 
al-Qaida--an effort to suffocate the al-Qaida movement and pressure its 
physical resources, its people, and its vehicles of propaganda--all in 
a unified effort to shut down al-Qaida's ability to wage war through 
large-scale acts of terror. We can accomplish this strategy through 
multiple methods: doubling the size and increasing the skill sets of 
our Special Forces troops, working with other nations to more 
effectively crack down on terror financing flows, and, finally, getting 
serious on public diplomacy so that we can counter and refute the hate-
filled messages from extremists at every turn.

Recently, former Senator Gary Hart suggested that we should create a 
fifth military service branch which would unify all Special Forces 
under one command, an idea worthy of consideration and further study.

We also need to send a firm message to Pakistan that the United 
States cannot tolerate the return of al-Qaida training facilities 
anywhere in the world. If such camps are on sovereign Pakistani 
territory, then it is the responsibility of the government in Islamabad 
to ensure that those camps are shut down. General Musharraf has been a 
partner of the United States, and his government has played a valued 
role in some of our most notable counterterrorism successes. But we 
cannot abide any backsliding when it comes to this issue.

Al-Qaida is not only reconstituting its networks and operational 
capabilities, but it is also making gains in the broader battle of 
ideas--the clash between modernity and reason and extremism and 
jihadism. These are two very different worldviews fiercely competing 
every day for the hearts and minds of the Muslim world. America will 
win the war against extremism when we persuade the citizens of Egypt, 
Iran, Saudi Arabia, and other nations of the strength of our ideas and 
values and offer a path away from militancy and irrational hatred.

But we have been going in the wrong direction on this front. We only 
need to recall the immediate aftermath of the 9/11 attacks when the 
world united with us in grief and sympathy. Who can forget that grand 
headline, in France of all places, on September 12, 2001: ''We are all 
Americans.'' The United States had a historical opportunity to unite 
the world in a common cause against the forces of terrorism and 
extremism and destroy the al-Qaida network and the twisted beliefs that 
serve as its cornerstone. Instead, by pursuing a black-and-white, our-
way-or-the-highway approach, this administration helped transform our 
Nation's greatest asset--the appeal of the American spirit around the 
world--into a liability.

America today evokes feelings of resentment and distrust, negativity 
and hostility. Instead of building a grand international coalition on 
behalf of the values that unite us, the White House settled for 
temporary and weak ''coalitions of the willing'' that have left us far 
too isolated.

Since 2001, the Pew Global Attitudes Project has tracked on a regular 
basis


how America is perceived overseas and global attitudes toward the U.S.-
led war on terrorism. Across the board, we have seen a dramatic decline 
in positive views toward the United States and, even more troubling, 
the American people. This decline has been especially marked in the 
Islamic world, where Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida enjoy far stronger 
favorability ratings than our Nation. In both Morocco and Jordan, both 
relatively moderate Muslim nations, a 2005 poll found that 
approximately half of respondents in both nations believe suicide 
attacks against Americans in Iraq are justifiable. In Indonesia, 
positive views of the United States plunged from 61 percent to 15 
percent in 1 year alone--from 2002 to 2003. Unfortunately, those 
numbers have barely edged upward in recent years.

Something has gone terribly wrong when a vile terrorist organization 
is in a more positive light than our great Nation. That is, apparently, 
what some surveys show across the world. I understand that the United 
States is the biggest guy on the block and a certain level of 
resentment will always exist. Yet, we cannot succeed in this global 
struggle against terrorism and extremism if our own ideas and our own 
image are viewed in such distorted, negative terms. We must recommit 
ourselves to a global public diplomacy campaign that conveys our Nation 
as it truly is--a beacon for liberty and hope. Our efforts will succeed 
when we inspire those currently sitting on the fence in the Muslim 
world to reject the false ideals that al-Qaida and its brethren 
promote. In waging an offensive against al-Qaida, our ideas will be as 
important as the might of our military forces.

While we must wage a strong offensive against al-Qaida and its 
extremist allies, we cannot neglect a strong defense here at home. 
Combating terrorism requires a strong homeland security effort, to 
ensure that our Nation can effectively defend and deter against attacks 
that can kill or injure tens of thousands of Americans in one strike. 
Unfortunately, homeland security has long been an afterthought for this 
administration, instead used primarily as a rhetorical weapon against 
its political opponents. The Department of Homeland Security's 
ineffectual record and poor performance bear witness to this neglect.

It is easy to forget that this administration fiercely opposed the 
creation of the Department of Homeland Security, instead arguing that a 
small office in the White House could adequately do the job. The 
administration long resisted the full implementation of the
9/11 Commission recommendations--a serious oversight that the 110th 
Congress has sought to rectify, with both the House and the Senate 
passing comprehensive legislation to help ensure that all of the 
commission's recommendations are finally put in place. When it came 
time to replace Tom Ridge as Secretary of Homeland Security, the White 
House put forward as its first choice Bernard Kerik--a political hack 
with a checkered past--only to withdraw the nomination days later after 
a series of embarrassing disclosures on his personal background.

The Department of Homeland Security has lacked the necessary budgets, 
leadership, and political support required from the White House to do 
its job properly. Although the administration created a brand new 
department to coordinate homeland security policy, overall funding for 
homeland security programs barely grew after DHS opened its doors in 
early 2003. The upper echelons of the Department have constituted a 
revolving door with industry, as senior political appointees spend only 
a year or two in their positions before cashing in on their contacts 
and joining lobbying firms and technology firms with interests before 
the Department. We saw the culmination of this neglect and indifference 
in the Department's shameful response to Hurricane Katrina in the fall 
of 2005.

Although I do not sit on the Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs Committee, I take a strong interest in these issues, as they 
are vital to my constituents in Pennsylvania. And so I believe there 
are three key areas where this Congress can take further action to help 
ensure that our Nation is better prepared to protect itself against a 
future attack. First of all, we must ensure that our limited homeland 
security dollars are spent wisely. Although I respect the general 
principle that Federal spending must be allocated in a manner fair and 
proportionate for all 50 States represented in this Chamber, we cannot 
treat homeland security funding as just another Government program. It 
is an undeniable fact, one emphasized by the 9/11 Commission, that some 
States, some cities, and some targets are at significantly greater risk 
to attack than others. And so we must allocate our homeland security 
funding on a risk-focused basis.

During the Senate's debate on the
9/11 Commission bill, I was proud to stand with the distinguished 
Senator from California, Mrs. Feinstein, and others in fighting for an 
amendment that would revise our funding formulas to ensure that 
homeland security dollars flow, first and foremost, to those cities and 
States with the greatest at-risk targets. Although this effort failed, 
I was pleased to see that we have made progress since the last Congress 
and encourage the House-Senate conference to ensure that risk-based 
funding provisions be included in the final bill.

A second area of strong concern to me is the prospect of terrorists 
transforming our chemical plants and hazardous material rail shipments 
into lethal chemical weapons. A Congressional Research Service report 
indicates that there are at least 16 chemical plants in Pennsylvania 
where a release of toxic chemicals could cause over 100,000 deaths, and 
two plants where such a release could result in over a million deaths. 
This threat has been brought home in recent weeks as we see insurgents 
in Iraq engineering large explosions of chlorine tankers to spread 
noxious fumes in populated areas. These attacks are growing in 
sophistication and lethality and I worry that they may provide a 
blueprint for similar attacks in the United States. Therefore, I am 
encouraged that the Department of Homeland Security released its final 
regulations on chemical plant security earlier this month. These 
regulations are a good start, but we need to do much more. In 
particular, we need to ensure that the Department of Homeland 
Security's Chemical Security Office receives far more than the paltry 
$10 million it was appropriated for the current fiscal year.

It is also essential to permit those state and local governments 
which wish to adopt even more stringent protective measures to do so. 
The regulations issued by the Department are somewhat ambiguous on this 
point, and so both Houses of Congress have endorsed language that 
preserves the right of State and local governments to ''preempt'' 
Federal regulations so long as they are not in direct contradiction. 
This language would permit the Department of Homeland Security to 
establish a minimum floor for chemical security regulations, but, 
yielding to the best principles of federalism, allow individual State 
and local governments to go beyond those minimum regulations where 
appropriate.

Finally, it is incumbent that our Nation takes steps to once and for 
all ensure that our first responders have reliable access to secure 
interoperable communications. After 343 firefighters and paramedics 
gave their lives on 9/11, and countless victims died during Hurricane 
Katrina, because emergency personnel were unable to communicate with 
each other, it is unacceptable that we have still failed to establish a 
nationwide interoperable communications system that will allow local, 
State, and Federal first responders to communicate with each other in a 
seamless and uniform fashion. For this reason, I am proud to join my 
distinguished colleague from Arizona in cosponsoring S. 744, the SAVE 
LIVES Act, a bill ensuring that an additional 30 MHz in the 700 MHz 
spectrum band be dedicated to public safety.

The SAVE LIVES Act would require the Federal Communications 
Commission to auction 30 MHz of the spectrum, which is otherwise 
scheduled to be made available in January 2008 for general commercial 
purposes, under a conditional license requiring any winning bidder to 
meet detailed requirements to operate a national, interoperable public 
safety broadband network. A commercial provider can use this broadband 
spectrum for commercial purposes, but must make available the


spectrum for public safety purposes whenever it is needed.

I am proud to be the first cosponsor on this important legislation. I 
strongly urge the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
Committee to take up this bill immediately, because we don't have time 
to lose. Pursuant to a previous congressional mandate, the FCC must 
auction spectrum in the 700 MHz band by January 28, 2008. Unless this 
bill passes in some form beforehand, all of that spectrum, with a small 
exception, will be auctioned off to commercial providers, with no 
requirement that any of it be made available to first responders for 
public safety purposes.

Secure, interoperable communications is an issue of particular 
interest to my constituents in the city of Philadelphia. Currently, 
first responders are unable to use their radios in the tunnels of the 
city's subway and commuter rail system, SEPTA. The city has applied for 
DHS grants in past years to wire the tunnels to facilitate 
communications, but those applications have been rejected. I intend to 
work with the city and other members of the Pennsylvania Congressional 
delegation to ensure that the fifth largest city in the Nation is 
prepared for any potential emergency in its transit system.

There are a number of other strong policy proposals that I urge this 
Congress to consider to further strengthen our Nation's homeland 
security. I do not have the time today to discuss them in further 
detail, but at a minimum, we should take a serious look at the 
following areas:

Ensuring that we inspect the air cargo transported by passenger 
airlines to prevent terrorists from planting a bomb in a plane's 
underbelly; strengthening our border security with better technology 
and additional Customs and Border Patrol agents; working with the 
private sector to develop real incentives for both large corporations 
and small businesses to adopt commensense solutions that mitigate the 
risks of an attack and thus make them less attractive targets to 
terrorists; undertaking a serious and comprehensive approach to locking 
up sources of nuclear missile material around the world to prevent our 
worst nightmare--an improvised nuclear bomb destroying an American 
city.

All of us remember where we were and what we were doing on September 
11, 2001. The memories of that terrible day will remain with all of us 
so long as we are alive. Our Nation has been blessed that we he not had 
to endure another attack during the intervening 5 years, but we 
recognize that our friends in Western Europe, Southeast Asia, and the 
Middle East have suffered ghastly attacks that have taken the lives of 
innocent civilians and spread terror. The war in Iraq is at the center 
of our national discussion today, but we cannot allow it to distract us 
from the objectives the America people set out to achieve in the fall 
of 2001: destroying al-Qaida and denying legitimacy to the ideas of 
jihadist extremism.

It is time to refocus our attention and resources. Al-Qaida may not 
have mounted another attack against our citizens, but they have tried 
and are once again on the march. We must rededicate ourselves to a 
comprehensive strategy that seeks to constrict Al-Qaida's bases of 
support and undercuts their popular legitimacy in the Muslim world. On 
the home front, we must ensure that we are adequately prepared to deter 
and defend against likely attacks that seek to exploit our open society 
and sow panic and economic damage.

If America truly is engaged in a generational battle against the 
forces of extremism, our Nation must adopt a serious and comprehensive 
approach to counterterrorism, both overseas and at home. We owe the 
victims of 9/11 and their families no less--indeed, we owe the American 
people no less.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.