# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `181fd948334cf24b8c2bfc28aac41628`
`Mr. SAXTON â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. SAXTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me time.

First, let me begin by saying that I have observed several speakers 
here during this debate who I am sure in good faith made the 
representations that they did, that the short-term redeployment or 
surge was not a recommendation of the Iraq Study Group.

This is a copy of the report of the Iraq Study Group. On page 73 
there is a discussion of increasing troop levels in Iraq. And the Iraq 
Study Group did in fact suggest that a substantial increase of 100,000 
or 200,000 troops would likely be not a good idea.

However, they say this, and I quote. ''We could, however, support a 
short-term redeployment or surge of American combat forces to stabilize 
Baghdad, or to speed up the training and equipping mission if the U.S. 
commander in Iraq determines that such steps would be effective.''

And so I would say to my friends that is in fact the case. And so I 
hope that that puts that matter to rest. Mr. Speaker, this resolution, 
I suspect, has been drawn up as a well-meaning resolution. There have 
been some suggestions here today that it is political in nature. I do 
not know if that is true. But I would hope that it is a good, well-
meaning resolution.

I have been here now for well over 20 years, I am in my 23rd year. I 
have learned a lot about the House. This is a great system. We do great 
work here. And we usually do it right. Sometimes we make mistakes.

On many issues we make corrections to those mistakes. When we pass 
tax bills, months later or a year later we will make some technical 
corrections to the tax bill, because we did not do it quite right. In 
many other cases, if we spend too much money in an appropriations bill 
this year, we can come back and reduce it in a future year.

But I would suggest to my friends who support this resolution that it 
is a start down a road; it is a start down a road that at some point 
could have disastrous effects. So we want to make sure, I am sure you 
want to make sure, that you get this right. I would like to walk you 
through some reasons why I think that this takes us in the wrong 
direction.



In fact, there is a bunch of evidence to point to the fact that the 
enemy is watching what we are doing, that they have learned from our 
past mistakes, and that they are in fact hoping that this resolution 
passes, for some fairly obvious reasons. Let me go through four case 
studies that we have made about similar situations.

First, a situation in Lebanon. Lebanon was a wonderful country. It 
was a democracy. It had a Parliament. Had Christians and Muslims living 
together sharing power. In the middle 1970s, things began to change. 
The big change was that fundamentalist Islam came to town and Hezbollah 
came to town.



And in 1975, a war erupted, which has been called a civil war. There 
was the emergence of multi-sided militia groups, sectarian violence and 
civilian massacres. Sounds familiar.

In 1982, the U.N. sent in a multi-national force to try to quell the 
violence. And on October 23, 1983 the Marine barracks was bombed by 
Hezbollah with the support of Iran. The best description of it I have 
heard or read comes from a description by some Navy SEALs who were 
sleeping in their bunker on the beach, not in the barracks. And the 
magnitude of the explosion, to hear them describe it, was something to 
behold. And it shocked America. And in 1984 we withdrew our Marines. 
The remainder of the peacekeeping force was gone by April of 1984. 
There was no serious U.S. retaliation for the Beirut bombing. The civil 
war continued until 1990. Hezbollah emerged from a loose coalition of 
Shia groups and, with Iranian assistance, quickly grew into a strong 
fighting force in Lebanon. That is case number one.

Case Number two. We have got troops today in Afghanistan. If things 
had happened somewhat differently a couple of decades earlier, they 
might not be there at all. But in the mid-1980s the Afghan resistance 
builds momentum with Muslim fighters to recruit a jihad against the 
Soviets. And we all have read about that resistance movement. It was 
fierce, and we actually helped them. And in 1989 the Soviets had had 
enough, just like we had had enough in Lebanon, and the Soviets 
withdrew.

From 1989 to 1992, the Afghan civil war continued until the 
government of Afghanistan fell. In 1993 and 1994, the Taliban came 
along, and they gained power. In 1996, Osama bin Laden moves back to 
Afghanistan and forges an alliance between al Qaeda and the Taliban. 
Since then, we know the history very well of Afghanistan. A void was 
there to be filled, and the fundamentalist Islamists filled it.

Now, I would like to turn to the third case study, the case study 
involving Somalia. In 1980, the Somalia Government becomes increasingly 
totalitarian and resistance movements emerge across the country, which 
leads to a civil war in 1991. Being great big-hearted Americans, in 
1992 and 1993, we decided to save the starving Somalis, and we 
initiated Operation Restore Hope. In May 1993, the U.N. assumed the 
mission from the U.S. as an international mission. In October of 1993 
the battle for Mogadishu took place. Eighteen Americans were killed. 
The U.S. stops operations against Aidid, and in March, 1995, both U.S. 
and U.N. forces withdraw. It was later confirmed that al Qaeda 
supported Aidid's militia. There is evidence that the U.S. withdrawal 
inspired bin Laden's first bombing of the World Trade Center. The 
Islamist fundamentalists filled the void once again.

Let me move to my fourth case study, the Israeli withdrawal, again, 
from Lebanon. Preceding the Israeli invasion in 1982 the PLO was 
conducting attacks on Israel from south Lebanon. In 1982, Israeli 
forces invaded southern Lebanon in response to an assassination attempt 
by Abu Nidal against Israel's ambassador to the U.K. After attacking 
PLO, Syrian and Muslim Lebanese forces, Israel occupied southern 
Lebanon.

If you want to read a great account of this, read the book entitled 
''Because They Hate.'' It is a book written by a Christian woman by the 
name of Brigitte Gabriel, who is now living in the U.S., and she tells 
the story of living in a bunker, living in a bunker until the war was 
over, not a nice thing to do.

In 1982 to 1984, the multi-national peacekeeping force came to 
Lebanon. The PLO withdrawal in 1982 is replaced by a strengthening of 
Hezbollah. In 1985, Israel moves to the security zone in southern 
Lebanon. And in 2000, Israel withdraws.

I only need to point to the events of last summer in Lebanon to say, 
once again, the fundamentalist Islamists, Hezbollah, filled the void.

We are embarked today on a discussion of another potential road to 
withdrawal. And I don't represent that this resolution does that, but 
it puts us in that direction. Evidence of our failure to respond to 
terrorism has emboldened al Qaeda for years. This withdrawal would be 
another one, if it goes that far.

In 1993, the World Trade Center bombing took place. We didn't 
respond. In 1996, the Khobar Tower bombings took place and we didn't 
respond. In 1998, the U.S. embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania 
occurred and we didn't respond. In 2000, the attack on the USS Cole 
occurred and we didn't respond. The result, New York City, 9/11.

People ask me why I am so concerned about this. People ask me why, 
Saxton, you have been on the floor too much.

Let me show you the next chart. This is why I am concerned. This is 
my family.

When I first ran for Congress in 1984 the steering committee asked me 
why I wanted to be a Member of Congress. I said, because I have had a 
good life. I said, because this is a great country, and because I want 
my family to have the same opportunities I have had.

This is my son Marty and his wife and their little gal, my 
granddaughter Allie. This is my daughter, Jen, this is Kate, and this 
is Jacqueline.

I will admit the artist got a little carried away because they made a 
montage out of this picture and they put my grandchildren on here two 
or three times each. But I will tell you what, if we go down this road 
to the point where we can't correct a mistake, I wonder what the future 
is going to be for my family and for your family.

And so this resolution today is an important one. It may be only 97 
words or whatever it is, and it may have only two statements in it, but 
we are headed down a road, and it is a dangerous one, in my opinion.