# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `18429d0008bd32d9a667edf72c5b5070`
`Mr. CONYERS â€” 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, one of the great strengths of our nation is 
our collective ability to learn from our mistakes--to reject 
conventional thought and embrace innovation. During his short time in 
office, the President has been the physical embodiment of this 
strength. He has challenged the status quo where he has found it and 
laid bare the contradictions inherent in policies and modes of thought 
that have outlived their usefulness. From reforming our domestic auto 
industry, to turning away from outdated forms of energy production, to 
finally recognizing that a person's health and a person's ability to 
work are, in fact, intimately related, the President is leading our 
nation toward progress.

It is unfortunate then, that the President has not challenged our 
most pervasive and dangerous national hubris: the foolhardy belief that 
we can erect the foundations of civil society through the judicious use 
of our many high tech instruments of violence. That belief, promoted by 
the previous administration in the wake of the terrorist attacks of 
September 11, assumes that the United States possesses the capacity and 
also has a duty to determine the fate of nations in the greater Middle 
East.

I oppose this supplemental war funding bill because I believe that we 
are not bound by such a duty. In fact, I believe the policies of empire 
are counterproductive in our struggle against the forces of radical 
religious extremism. For example, U.S. strikes from unmanned Predator 
Drones and other aircraft produced 64 percent of all civilian deaths 
caused by the U.S., NATO, and Afghan forces in 2008. Just this week, 
U.S. air strikes took another 100 lives, according to Afghan officials 
on the ground. If it is our goal to strengthen the average Afghani or 
Pakistani citizen and to weaken the radicals that threaten stability in 
the region, bombing villages is clearly counterproductive. For every 
family broken apart by an incident of ''collateral damage,'' seeds of 
hate and enmity are sown against our nation.

I must also oppose this resolution because of the decision to strip 
$80 million in funding for the closure of the detention center located 
at Guantanamo Bay during deliberations in the Appropriations Committee. 
Here as well, I implore my colleagues to consider the message we send 
to the world about our commitment to the rule of law. Closing this 
sordid chapter in our national history is a tremendously important part 
of our campaign to win the hearts and minds of the people of 
Afghanistan and Pakistan.

There are those who will say that the Taliban and the tribal warlords 
of the Pashtun will not yield to reason or diplomacy. This may be true. 
However, this vote is a referendum on our means, not on our goals in 
the region or our commitment to defeating those who would wish us harm. 
The President has assembled the best minds that our nation has to 
offer. He has all of the myriad tools of statecraft at his disposal. 
With these factors in mind, I refuse to believe that constraining these 
tribal warlords and extremists, whose influence is limited to a 
mountainous and economically derelict region halfway around the world, 
requires the mightiest nation in the world to indefinitely


commit our precious national resources in this particular manner.

Obviously, Afghanistan is not Iraq. It presents unique geographic, 
economic, and cultural challenges that will be orders of magnitude more 
difficult to solve. Let us remember that we are on the verge of 
extracting our troops and treasure from the quagmire of Iraq. Over the 
last six years, the strength of the forces of arrogance has waned as a 
direct result of our national experience with the horrors, costs, and 
futility inherent in a military occupation. Yet, here we are--on the 
precipice of hastily injecting our military men and women into a far 
more difficult and unwieldy situation.

Should we support this measure, we risk dooming our nation to a fate 
similar to Sisyphus and his boulder: to being trapped in a stalemate of 
unending frustration and misery, as our mistakes inevitably lead us to 
the same failed outcomes. Let us step back; let us remember the 
mistakes and heartbreak of our recent misadventures in the streets of 
Fallujah and Baghdad. If we honor the ties that bind us to one another, 
we cannot in good faith send our fellow citizens on this errand of 
folly. It is still not too late to turn away from this path.