# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `19129ba96c0ca0e19ab66b9d8fb0eb7d`
`Mr. LARSEN of Washington â€” 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Madam Chair, perhaps I can rise today and 
try to lower the temperature a little bit as I rise to oppose the 
substitute budget before us and express my strong support for the 
Budget Committee resolution that is on the floor today a little later.

It is because our budget puts President Obama's plan to invest in our 
Nation's priorities into action, our budget is part of a comprehensive 
approach to create jobs and to build a foundation for our country's 
long-term economic strength. Congress and this administration have 
already taken action to save or create 3.5 million jobs, to keep 
families in their homes and to stabilize our financial markets. The 
economy is clearly job number one for all of us here. President Obama 
inherited an economic mess from the last administration, including 
record deficits and soaring unemployment. It is going to take some 
time, some hard work, some very difficult choices for us to get past 
this economic and this fiscal crisis and to move our country in a new 
direction.

I hosted some town talks with about 200 of my constituents this past 
weekend in Marysville and Lake Stevens. And let me tell you, they are 
worried. They are worried about the economy. They are ready for a new 
direction. They are looking for answers from this Congress and from the 
President. President Obama and Chairman Spratt have proposed a budget 
resolution that moves our country in the right direction by investing 
in clean energy, in education and affordable health care for families 
and businesses. This budget also invests in our Nation's national 
security, provides a nearly 4 percent increase in funding for the 
Department of Defense to keep our country safe and to support our 
military folks and their families. And for the first time, the 
President's budget in this resolution includes an honest and 
transparent accounting of the cost of sustaining our wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. It creates jobs that target investments. It reforms health 
care, energy and education.

The substitute before us today does the opposite, cutting those 
investments that we need to strengthen our economy for the long term. 
Instead of moving us in a new direction that we need, this substitute 
unfortunately relies on the failed approaches of the past.

So I'm urging my colleagues to oppose the substitute and support the 
budget resolution that we are going to see later on the floor today.