# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `19fa4fc28eefed3e382f1bd5482f2900`
`Ms. KAPTUR â€” 4 August 2007`

---


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the Fiscal Year 
2008 Appropriations bill. I commend Chairman Murtha and Ranking Member 
Young for crafting a bipartisan measure that carefully balances support 
for or troops and their families and fiscal responsibility. It 
maintains and enhances our Nation's commitment to a defense second to 
none and our abiding responsibility to protect and defend our Nation 
from all enemies at home and abroad.

As a member of this distinguished subcommittee, I am pleased with the 
body of work that we produced under the strong leadership of Chairman 
Murtha. The Defense subcommittee held over 30 hearings this year, 
nearly double that of the previous Congress. We received testimony from 
dozens of witnesses--from both inside and outside the Department of 
Defense--in order to allow the Members and our extraordinary staff to 
fashion this well balanced bill.

Mr. Chairman, this has been a difficult year for our Nation. The 
economy is in fragile shape, the public is losing faith in this body 
and the war in Iraq is taking a serious toll on the morale and well 
being of U.S. soldiers. As this conflict extends well into its 5th 
year, I must soberly remind each and every Member of this body that 
3,651 U.S. soldiers have been killed and 27,104 injured. Those are 
staggering numbers.

Thankfully, this bill seeks to provide robust funding for those 
programs most important to the soldiers and to their families. The 
Committee fully-funded a 3.5 percent military pay raise without 
charging higher health care fees for military retirees, as the 
Administration proposed to do. Included in this bill is just under 
three billion dollars for family advocacy programs, childcare centers 
and dependent's education programs.

I am also very supportive of strong language and related funding in 
this bill providing for increased oversight and accountability of 
contractors and contracting out services. We have been calling on the 
Department of Defense to get its fiscal house in order for years. They 
chose to ignore Congress. This bill provides much needed guidance on 
the steps they must take to increase transparency on how they spend the 
public's money. Corruption and fiscal irresponsibility cannot stand. I 
agree with my Chairman, the distinguished gentleman from Pennsylvania, 
who maintains: ''The Committee's fiduciary responsibility to the 
American taxpayer requires holding accountable organizations, 
officials, and programs that have performed poorly. Moreover, wasted 
resources and procedural abuses ultimately come at the expense of our 
military men and women.'' As a result, we provide increased funds for 
the Contract Audit Agency, the Contract Management Agency, and the 
Department of Defense Inspector General. We also provide authority for 
the DoD to hire up to 500 GSA and GAG efficiency experts for 
assistance.

Finally, and perhaps most importantly, I want to draw each Member's 
attention to language in this bill that notes the Department of Defense 
has been slow ''to establish aggressive goals and timelines to achieve 
increased energy efficiency.'' The utter dependence of the United 
States on imported petroleum creates the major strategic vulnerability 
for our Nation, coupled with nearly half of the energy supply of the 
United States dependent on foreign sources. From the economically 
damaging Arab oil embargoes of 1973-74 and 1979 to the current 
recession precipitated by rising oil prices, which began in 1999, 
economic forces outside our borders have too often shaken the economic 
stability of the United States. We must shift America's dependence away 
from foreign petroleum as an energy source toward alternative, 
renewable, domestic sources. We must aim to balance the current 
petroleum trade deficit by replacing foreign sources of supply with 
steady increases of domestically-produced fuels and power system.

The Department of Defense is the largest purchaser of fuel in the 
United States. It maintains the largest energy footprint in our 
Govemment. I believe the Department of Defense can and must lead all 
other agencies in making the United States energy independent again.

I encourage every Member to vote in favor of this bill.