# REPORT ON FOREIGN TRAVEL TO THE UNITED KINGDOM, ISRAEL, PAKISTAN,  JORDAN, SYRIA, AUSTRIA, AND BELGIUM
## `1a587ebb78f5086d365866cbea61d176`
`Mr. SPECTER â€” 22 January 2008`

---


Mr. SPECTER. With the assassination of Ms. Bhutto, it seems to me 
there is a need for an international investigation. By letter dated 
January 2, before returning to the United States, I wrote a letter to 
the Secretary General of the United Nations urging that there be an 
international investigation because of the obvious concerns as to 
whether security was involved or the kinds of conspiratorial theories 
which arise, whether there is any basis for them.

President Musharraf of Pakistan had asked for assistance from 
Scotland Yard. My own view is that was insufficient because Pakistan 
would retain control of the investigation, but that would certainly be 
a step in the right direction.

I supplemented that letter to the Secretary General on January 17, 
2008, with a suggestion that the United Nations put into operation a 
standing commission to investigate international assassinations. The 
importance of immediate action and investigation is well known--to get 
to the scene, to preserve the evidence to the maximum extent possible, 
and to question witnesses while their memories are fresh and before 
they are potentially intimidated. Some of the doctors who attended 
Benazir Bhutto reported they had been told not to talk to the media. I 
think these ideas are ideas which are worth pursuing.


The composition of the standing commission would have to be very 
carefully thought through. There would obviously be exemptions for 
nations which are capable of carrying on an investigation with the 
technical expertise and which would have the confidence of the public, 
but I think this is an issue which ought to be undertaken. The 
Wiesenthal Institute has published the idea, full-page ads in the New 
York Times, that assassination ought to be classified as a crime 
against humanity. That, too, is an idea, in my opinion, which ought to 
be pursued. But the lessons learned and the pain and suffering which 
comes from the assassination of a great leader such as Ms. Bhutto ought 
to be studied. We ought to look to the future to be sure that where 
there are recurrences--and regrettably, it is highly likely there will 
be recurrences--that we profit by that experience.

In addition to traveling to Pakistan, Congressman Kennedy and I 
visited in Israel and in Syria. We talked to Prime Minister Olmert in 
Israel. We talked to President Bashar al-Asad in Syria. Both are 
national leaders and both expressed a desire to have a peace treaty. It 
is very difficult to assess the possibilities by talking, even with the 
probing questions, because it depends so much on a matter of trust. But 
I think it is worth noting that back-channel negotiations have been 
undertaken. A report has appeared in the Arabic press and specified in 
my written statement but has not appeared, to my knowledge, in the 
American press. We do know Israel and Syria came very close to an 
agreement in 1995, until Prime Minister Rabin was assassinated, and 
then again brokered by President Clinton near the end of his term in 
2000. They came very close to an agreement, when it was reported that 
Syrian President Hafez al-Asad was more concerned with the succession 
of his son than in completing the treaty. Only Israel can decide 
whether it is in Israel's interest to give up the Golan, which is the 
central issue.

But warfare is very different now than it was in 1967, when Israel 
took the Golan Heights. The rockets are impervious to elevated spots 
such as the Golan, and it is a very different strategic concern. But as 
Prime Minister Olmert commented--and I quoted him in the written 
statement--there are very material advantages which could come if Syria 
would stop supporting Hamas. It would promote the possibilities of a 
treaty between Palestinian President Abbas and Israel. If Syria would 
stop supporting Hezbollah and destabilizing Lebanon, there could be a 
great advantage. Such a treaty would have the potential of driving a 
wedge between Syria and Iran which would be of value.

That is a very brief statement of the extensive written report which 
I have filed, and I appreciate it being printed in the Record, at the 
conclusion of my statement. I thank the managers of the pending bill 
for yielding this time, and I conclude my statement by yielding the 
floor.

















Exhibit 1










 Statement of Senator Arlen Specter



 report on foreign travel to the united kingdom, israel, pakistan, 









 jordan, syria, austria and belgium




 Mr. President, as is my custom from returning abroad, I 


 have sought recognition to report on the recent trip I made 


 overseas from December 22, 2007 to January 4, 2008.
















 united kingdom




 On the morning of December 23, the delegation which 


 included my wife Joan, Representative Patrick Kennedy, 


 Christopher Bradish, a member of my staff, Colonel Gregg 


 Olson, our escort officer and Captain Ron Smith, our doctor 


 and me, departed from Washington Dulles International Airport 


 for London, England. After a flight of just over 7 hours, we 


 arrived at London Heathrow Airport. The following morning we 


 departed for Tel Aviv, Israel.


















 israel




 We arrived in Tel Aviv on the evening of December 24. We 


 were greeted at the airport by Rachel Smith our control 


 officer from the embassy.



 The following morning, I was briefed by DCM Luis Moreno and 


 Political Counsel Marc Sievers on the latest developments in 


 the region. The country team stressed that, prior to the 


 Annapolis conference, tension in the region was high. The 


 team informed us that Prime Minister Olmert and President 


 Mahmoud Abbas have good chemistry and that the leaders remain 


 optimistic that an agreement can be reached in 2008. We 


 discussed some of the prevalent matters in the region 


 including the situation in the Gaza strip, the dynamic 


 between Fatah and Hamas, the Paris conference, the security 


 situation in Israel and the political outlook for the region. 


 Following the briefing, we departed for a meeting with 


 Israeli President Shimon Peres.



 Having traveled to Israel 25 times during my tenure, I had 


 come to know many of Israel's leaders including President 


 Shimon Peres. I asked the President for his thoughts on how 


 to break the cycle of violence and hate that reigns in the 


 region. He provided




 his candid assessment of the prospects for peace but stressed 


 that nothing can be solved without cooperation, a strong 


 commitment to economic improvement which entails the creation 


 of jobs in addition to aid money and the tangible benefits of 


 changing the economic situation and the impact that has on 


 changing people's lives. President Peres stated it was 


 critical to support Abu Mazen and develop the West Bank.



 I asked Peres on the prospects for future dealings with 


 Syria. The President said Syria should make a choice: Lebanon 


 or the Golan. If they meddle in Lebanon, the Israeli's will 


 not discuss Golan and that all other issues are secondary.



 I pressed President Peres on Iran and what he thought 


 should be done. He stated that the U.S. needs a united, 


 coherent policy to combat President Ahmadinejad's policy of 


 enriching uranium. He complimented President Bush in showing 


 courage, but that the capacity to build a coalition was 


 absent. Peres did not express great alarm about Iran as he 


 believes that the world will not allow the Islamic Republic 


 to acquire nuclear weapons. I asked if there were any lessons 


 from our diplomatic engagement with North Korea to which he 


 responded by highlighting the benefits of diplomatic and 


 economic efforts.



 I mentioned to Peres that we would be traveling to Pakistan 


 and solicited his thoughts. He believes that religious 


 fanatics in the region are a massive problem for the 


 government and that the U.S. should not force Pakistan and 


 its leaders to be an American democracy--a theme that would 


 continue in our meetings in Pakistan. He did not believe that 


 the situation between Pakistan and India would lead to war 


 but that it is imperative that Pakistan secure its nuclear 


 arsenal--something with which I strongly agree.



 President Peres suggested that oil is our great enemy: It 


 finances terror, makes a mockery of democracy, negatively 


 impacts the environment, and undercuts ideological 


 foundations. He called for increased efforts to pursue 


 alternatives to fossil fuels.



 When asked about his view on our engagement in Iraq and 


 Afghanistan, Peres stated that we have no choice but to 


 combat radical extremism and those who think modernity will 


 end. He elevated the struggle to one of those in the modern 


 world versus those who are not able to deal with the fact 


 that science has replaced them. He pointed to the fact that 


 you cannot find an Israeli hospital without an Arab doctor. 


 And even an Israeli who will not hire an Arab has no problem 


 with one operating on him with a knife.



 When discussing our bilateral relationship, Peres said: 


 ''The less we need America, the more friendly our relations 


 will become.'' President Peres ended the meeting by extending 


 an invitation for us to come back to Israel for the sixtieth 


 anniversary of Israel. We left the President's office for our 


 next meeting at the Knesset with former Prime Minister and 


 Likud party leader, Benjamin Netanyahu.



 The focus of our discussion with Netanyahu and Zarman 


 Shoval centered on Iran. He expressed his support for 


 continued economic pressure in the form of sanctions and 


 pension fund divestment. He reported that U.S. states 


 divesting from companies, mostly European, doing business 


 with Iran is having an impact. Netanyahu concluded that 


 Iran's building of long range weapon platforms and its 


 increased centrifuge activities leaves it with very little 


 left to do to obtain a nuclear weapon. A theme in my 


 discussions with Israeli officials, in Washington, DC and 


 Israel, is that our Nations don't differ on the facts but we 


 do differ on the interpretation. He was not convinced that 


 Iran halted its program and more importantly that we do not 


 know if Iran restarted its efforts.



 In addition to talking about unilateral actions, Netanyahu 


 recommended that we work with the Europeans and form a 


 unified front with Russia. He stressed the importance of 


 ''turning back the momentum'' domestically and 


 internationally to combat Iran.



 I asked Netanyahu what can be done to break the cycle of 


 violence and hatred. He said this is a battle between 


 modernity/globalization and militant Islam and that this 


 ''culture of death'' with nuclear weapons could lead to 


 catastrophe. Militant Islam, according to Netanyahu, works by 


 brainwashing individuals. The information and economic 


 revolution could be the best weapon against this ideology as 


 a form of combating brainwashing. Following our meeting with 


 Netanyahu, we departed for a meeting with Former Prime 


 Minister and current Defense Minister, Ehud Barak.



 I had met with Barak when he was in Washington, DC 


 attending the Annapolis conference. He provided me an update 


 on Israeli security service actions and intelligence gained 


 since we last spoke. I asked the Defense Minister to provide 


 his views on breaking the cycle of violence and hatred and 


 his outlook for the region. Barak believes that we cannot 


 reshape but can guide and offer a path of more opportunity. 


 He expressed his support for strengthening moderates like Abu 


 Mazen and Salaam Fayyad and that he is more optimistic 


 dealing with these leaders than he was when serving as Prime 


 Minister dealing with Yasser Arafat. I asked him about coming 


 close to an agreement in 2000 with Chairman Arafat. Barak 


 said the gap may have been narrow, but it was very deep.



 When asked about Lebanon and Syria, Barak said Syria 


 continues to destabilize Lebanon. He pointed to the recent 


 assassination of Francois El-Hajj, who was expected to be 


 Lebanon's new Army commander in chief should General Michel 


 Suleiman take over as President. Barak believes that Syria 


 would not stand to see the deputy elevated and that Syria 


 wants a government that will request the U.N. to halt its 


 investigation in the Hariri assassination--an attack that 


 some suspect was orchestrated by Syria. When I asked Barak 


 about his peace efforts while serving as Prime Minister with 


 Syria, he indicated that there was an opportunity, but Hafez 


 Assad was more concerned about his son's succession than 


 peace.



 On Iran, Minister Barak reiterated that the information 


 between U.S. and Israeli intelligence is 95 percent the same, 


 but that different interpretations persist. Barak expressed 


 concern over Iran's hidden program and that they are not 


 likely to cooperate. I asked about getting Russia to assist 


 and President Putin's offer to handle part of Iran's fuel 


 cycle. Barak stated that Russia wants to see the U.S. 


 squeezed right now but that we must engage China and Russia 


 if we want to have success on this front. We departed the 


 Knesset for our next meeting with President Mahmoud Abbas and 


 Salaam Fayyad in the West Bank.



 On Christmas Eve, we loaded in our convoy bound for 


 Bethlehem in the Palestinian-controlled West Bank. Security 


 was tight as we left Jerusalem and entered the West Bank with 


 security personnel lining both sides of the street every 100 


 yards. Upon arrival we were greeted by Salaam Fayyad, the 


 well-respected, western-educated finance minster, with whom 


 I've had a relationship for some years. I asked Abu Mazen 


 about the status of talks and prospects for peace. He shared 


 his optimism and informed me that he would be meeting with 


 Prime Minister Olmert in two days. He described 2008 as 


 precious and that he will work with the Israelis to reach a 


 deal. He expressed his concern over Israeli settlement 


 activities and the negative impact this could have on the 


 process.



 President Abbas informed the delegation that Hamas' 


 popularity was subsiding but that they are still receiving 


 assistance through tunnels and border crossings. Should these 


 not be blocked, money and weaponry still can flow to Gaza. 


 While this type of activity harms the process, he indicated 


 that humanitarian aid must flow to Palestinians residing in 


 the West Bank.



 The delegation pressed Abu Mazen about anti-Israeli 


 Palestinian decrees and expressed that these are not 


 acceptable. The President responded emphatically by saying, 


 ''I am the head of the PLO, I am the head of Fatah and I am 


 recognizing Israel and we want peace.''



 Congressman Kennedy asked President Abbas about comparisons 


 to the successful peace talks in Ireland and the prospects 


 for transferring some of the mechanisms employed to the 


 Middle East. Abu Mazen said there are elements that can be 


 utilized especially in the arena of people to people 


 programs.



 Salaam Fayyad shared his gratitude for the pledges made in 


 Paris and informed us that debt is being paid and the economy 


 showing signs of improvement. He cited that hotel occupancy 


 rate is near 100 percent which is up from 5-10 percent 


 earlier this year. He expressed his desire for implementing 


 larger infrastructure projects and a reduction in Israeli 


 restrictions, such as check points, which hinder businesses. 


 We concluded our meeting and returned to Jerusalem.



 On December 25, we had a morning meeting with Prime 


 Minister Ehud Olmert. The Prime Minister requested I brief 


 him on developments in the United States and our views 


 towards the region. Olmert asked about the U.S. role in 


 moving forward with Syria and if anything can be done given 


 their meddling in Lebanon. I told him I thought there is a 


 chance based on the progress made in 1995 and 2000. I told 


 him of my discussions in Washington, DC with Syrian officials 


 and that they expressed their interest in talks. I told him I 


 thought that the status of the Golan Heights would be the 


 crux of the negotiations.



 Olmert told me he is prepared to negotiate with Syria but 


 that it is a long process that needs to mature and that Syria 


 must deliver, not just talk. I pressed Olmert about what 


 actions he had taken and who would make the first move. I 


 reminded Olmert that Henry Kissinger said it took 34 


 negotiating sessions with Hafez Al-Assad to get an agreement.



 Prime Minister Olmert said the National Intelligence 


 Estimate on Iran was not helpful in efforts to combat Iran's 


 suspected nuclear weapons program. When asked if he thought 


 they stopped in 2003, Olmert replied, ''I don't know.'' He 


 expressed his hope that U.S. intelligence based its findings 


 on solid facts.



 Olmert, like Netanyahu, stated that if they have enough 


 uranium they can do everything else needed to make a weapon 


 in short order. Nevertheless, Olmert stated that we must 


 carry on impressing upon Iran to change their course.



 I requested specifics on how to confine Iran's nuclear 


 weapons program to which Olmert cited the usefulness of 


 economic pressure such as sanctions. He expressed displeasure 


 that the debate has been confined to two options: Military 


 action or acquiescence. The Prime Minister said he will raise 


 alternatives with President Bush during his January 2008 


 visit.



 Representative Kennedy asked Olmert about the Gaza-Hamas-


 Egypt nexus and the




 problems associated with smuggling. Olmert confirmed that the 


 movement of money, weapons, to include anti-tank and anti-air 


 missiles, and terrorists across the Philadelphia line is a 


 major concern. He indicated displeasure with Egyptian 


 acquiescence on this front and said that he had raised his 


 concerns with President Mubarak and that he would be 


 dispatching Defense Minister Barak to Egypt the following day 


 to follow up on these issues.



 I asked the Prime Minister about the reported ''offer'' 


 from Hamas for a ceasefire. Olmert said that no offer was 


 made, but rather a journalist reported receiving a call from 


 Hamas indicating an interest and that the media subsequently 


 played it up. He questions the logic of negotiating with 


 Hamas as all it would do is provide Hamas an opportunity to 


 re-arm and Israel would get nothing. He made clear his stance 


 that he is not inclined to negotiate with a group who wants 


 to kill Israelis and refuses to recognize the state.



 On the Israeli-Palestinian track, Olmert stated that Abbas 


 and Fayyad recognize Israel and want to make peace and are 


 serious, committed partners. When we discussed breaking the 


 cycle of violence and hate in the region, Olmert pointed to 


 Abbas as an example as someone who changed, became a 


 legitimate political leader and sees things differently than 


 he did 30 years ago. However, the question if the two sides 


 can agree on outstanding issues in unknown. He believes 


 reaching an agreement in 2008 is possible but that 


 implementation would take more time.



 I pressed the Prime Minister about the settlements 


 controversy raised in the media and directly by the 


 Palestinians. He explained that he has established a complete 


 moratorium on new settlements, but that Israel can build on 


 plans previously approved at current sites. We departed the 


 Prime Minister's office for our next meeting with Foreign 


 Minister Tzipi Livni.



 I called on Tzipi Livni to get her perspective on the 


 Israeli-Palestinian track, Syrian-Israeli track and broader 


 regional matters. Livni believes Abu Mazen and Salaam Fayyad 


 are sincere in their goals for peace and in refraining from 


 using terrorism. She supports the approach of strengthening 


 pragmatic Palestinians like Abbas and Fayyad. She went so far 


 as to say that Salaam Fayyad is a determined person in this 


 process and has exhibited real courage.



 I asked the Foreign Minister about economic development for 


 the Palestinians and the strategy to elevate their situation. 


 She said development was important but that we should not 


 look to it as the sole source to bring about change. Minister 


 Livni stated that Israel cannot afford another terrorist 


 state, a real partner in peace must be found and the only way 


 to achieve a Palestinian state is through negotiations, not 


 terror. She appreciated the rights of Palestinians and the 


 impacts of security measures, but stated that Israelis have a 


 right not to live in fear and endure terror.



 That afternoon, the delegation met with Saeb Erekat, the 


 Palestinian's chief negotiator. I had met with Saeb in the 


 past and found him to be an intelligent and insightful player 


 on understanding the conflict.



 Saeb informed me that the Israelis and Palestinians have 


 ''matured'' and that there is a genuine need for the peace 


 process. He expressed his view that the sides are in 


 agreement on 70 percent of what a pact would entail but that 


 no outside country can finalize a deal--it must be done by 


 the Israelis and Palestinians--it must be done by Olmert and 


 Abbas.



 Saeb and I talked about the broader Middle East and 


 regional conflicts. He believes that democracy in the Middle 


 East will defeat Al Qaeda and if negotiations between Israel 


 and the Palestinians fail, Osama bin Laden wins. He expressed 


 his optimism that a deal can be reached in 2008 and that both 


 sides are prepared for peace. He stated that there needs to 


 be a package deal and both sides know exactly what the 


 other wants--Israel wants no refugees and security and the 


 Palestinians want Jerusalem and land.



 On the issue of Iran, Saeb said that Iranian nationalism 


 cannot be overlooked when approaching Tehran. He expressed 


 frustration over anti-Israeli comments made by President 


 Ahmadinejad: ''When he says he wants Israel off the map, he 


 is killing me!'' He cannot comprehend why Iran would support 


 Hamas in Gaza and pointed out that Abu Mazen has been invited 


 to Tehran nine times and never responded. He suggested that 


 Iran wants a deal and is willing to make one with the U.S. or 


 international community.



 Saeb closed by indicating that progress on the Syrian-


 Israeli track would be beneficial to the Palestinian-Israeli 


 track. The following morning we drove from Jerusalem to Tel 


 Aviv en route to Pakistan.


















pakistan




 We landed in Islamabad, Pakistan on the night of Wednesday, 


 December 26 and were met by our control officer Jason 


 Jeffreys.



 The following morning, we met with Hamid Karzai, President 


 of Afghanistan, in his hotel room. President Karzai was in 


 Islamabad for officials meetings. President Karzai stated 


 that U.S. efforts in Afghanistan are working, roads are being 


 built, economies are being turned around and schools are 


 improving.



 I pressed President Karzai on the prospects for victory 


 over the Taliban and Al Qaeda. He stated that he and 


 President Musharraf had focused on this issue in their 


 meeting earlier and that it was a priority. Karzai stated 


 that the Taliban is not a long term threat in Afghanistan as 


 they have no popular support. The President stated that more 


 must be done to address the sanctuaries, training grounds and 


 madrasas.



 I asked Karzai about the prospects of catching Osama bin 


 Laden. The President told me that he will not be able to hide 


 forever and that sooner or later he will be caught.



 I asked President Karzai about Iran's pursuit of nuclear 


 weapons. He stated that nuclear weapons in the region bring 


 pride and a sense of security. He stated that Iran and the 


 U.S. should open a dialogue, talking pays and that no one can 


 benefit from confrontation.



 Following our meeting with President Karzai, we departed 


 for the embassy for the country team briefing led by 


 Ambassador Patterson.



 The delegation, including Ambassador Patterson, departed 


 the embassy to our next meeting with General Tariq Majid, 


 Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. General Majid's 


 headquarters are located in Rawalpindi--the same part of 


 Islamabad where Benazir Bhutto would be killed later that 


 same day.



 I pressed Gen. Majid on Pakistan's efforts to combat Al-


 Qaeda and locate Osama bin Laden. He indicated that he does 


 not know where he is but that Pakistan should be able to find 


 him but that it must be an integrated and combined effort 


 with U.S. support.



 I expressed my concern over the problems in the FATA region 


 and asked what is being done to combat the issues plaguing 


 that region and the country. He responded by telling me that 


 for many years, Pakistan did not have access to the tribal 


 belt but that military forces were now engaged--100,000 


 according to Majid.



 I told the General of my concern over Pakistan's nuclear 


 arsenal and the command and control structures in place to 


 ensure the weapons do not fall into the hands of militants. 


 He informed me that there is a structure in place that 


 ensures that there can be no rogue launch of nuclear weapons 


 as the President, Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, Defense 


 Minister and the service chiefs all have to approve usage.



 I expressed my desire to see the Indian subcontinent 


 denuclearized--a matter I had taken up with the Prime 


 Ministers of India and Pakistan over a decade earlier. Majid 


 informed me that Pakistan had made such an offer to India but 


 that it was rejected. Pakistan claims its arsenal is an 


 insurance policy against the much larger Indian force and 


 that they do not have regional ambitions. India not only 


 looks at Pakistan but looks east towards China and would not 


 likely give up their arsenal with such a neighbor. China 


 would be unlikely to surrender its weapons given the 


 considerable arsenals of Russia and the United States.



 I expressed my concern over Iran's nuclear activities and 


 ambitions. Majid indicated that Pakistan did not have a 


 problem with a peaceful program but that they object to high 


 levels of enrichment. Any military action against Iran, Majid 


 said, would compound problems in Pakistan. He suggested 


 bilateral talks between the U.S. and Iran as the path leading 


 us out of this dilemma.



 I told Gen. Majid of my great concern over the situation in 


 Pakistan, the political crisis, the removal of members of the 


 judiciary and the imprisonment of citizens. I told him there 


 was great concern in the United States and talk of altering 


 U.S. aid to Pakistan's military. Majid asked us to remember 


 that Pakistan is not the U.S. and that their democracy and 


 institutions are not as strong as ours. He asked us to review 


 the actions taken by the Chief Justice as he claimed he was 


 acting beyond his jurisdiction.



 Following our meeting with Gen. Majid, we were received by 


 President Pervez Musharraf at his palace. He expressed his 


 satisfaction with bilateral relations but indicated that 


 stopping the military cooperation would negatively impact the 


 relationship. I pressed Musharraf on the reported misuse of 


 aid and overcharging on reimbursements. The President 


 objected to the characterization of his government's actions 


 claiming that all requests are analyzed, mutually agreed upon 


 and submitted.



 I asked Musharraf about his efforts to combat terrorism. He 


 generalized about his government's efforts to combat the 


 Taliban and Al Qaeda. He indicated that actions in 


 Afghanistan have led to an overflow of troublemakers in 


 western Pakistan. When I asked if he will catch Osama bin 


 Laden, he responded that he, ''can't say for sure, but we 


 should.'' He claimed he does not have the forces required to 


 search and police some of the areas he may be hiding.



 I informed the President that we want transparency in 


 Pakistan and events such as removal of the Chief Justice 


 cause grave concern. I told Musharraf responded by saying 


 Pakistan has various pillars of government like the U.S. but 


 that their institutions are not as strong and capable as 


 those in the U.S. He indicated that the Chief Justice had 


 acted inappropriately and that his activities included 


 corruption, kickbacks and inappropriately using his 


 influence, which would not be tolerated in the United States. 


 Musharraf stated the Chief Justice was doing an injustice to 


 Pakistan, interfering in various cases in other courts, 


 actively campaigned in political rallies, traveling with his 


 own masked security detail and interfering with the executive 


 branch in privatization matters which had led to Pakistan's 


 recent economic success.



 When I pressed Musharraf on the rationale of imposing 


 martial law, he stated that the




 government was weakening, economy declining and terrorists 


 rising and that it was needed to maintain stability. He 


 stated that most people that were detained had been released. 


 We departed the Presidential Palace for a working lunch at 


 the Ambassador's residence to further evaluate and discuss 


 the issues confronting Pakistan and our bilateral 


 relationship. Attendees included Ambassador Patterson, 


 General Helmly, Peter Bodde, Candace Putnam, Jason Jeffreys 


 and the delegation.



 On the afternoon of December 27, we received word in our 


 control room that there had been an incident at a political 


 rally for Benazir Bhutto. As we were preparing for a dinner 


 hosted by President Musharraf we got word that she had 


 possibly been injured and was taken to the hospital. As I 


 headed to the elevators, Chris Bradish, my deputy, informed 


 me that Benazir had died. I had known her for nearly 20 


 years. We were scheduled to meet with her in her home at 9 


 p.m. that night--in approximately 3 hours.



 I received many calls and e-mails from the U.S. requesting 


 information on the situation. Below is a transcript of a 


 phone conversation I had with MSNBC:




 HALL: On the phone with us now is Senator Arlen Specter, 


 who is in Islamabad and was, according to what I'm being 


 told, expected to meet with Benazir Bhutto sometime tonight. 


 Senator, are you there?



 SPECTER: I am. Congressman Patrick Kennedy and I were 


 scheduled to meet with Benazir Bhutto this evening. We were 


 scheduled to go to a dinner with President Musharraf. We had 


 met with President Musharraf earlier today and, en route to 


 the dinner, about ready to go, we heard the tragic news.



 HALL: And how did you learn the news, sir?



 SPECTER: Watching CNN. We heard, first, that there had been 


 a suicide bomber attempt, that Benazir Bhutto was OK. Then we 


 heard she'd been hurt, critically, and then the news came in 


 that it had been fatal.



 HALL: And tell us a little bit about what you were planning 


 to meet with her regarding. We know that Hamid Karzai met 


 with her, as well as Pervez Musharraf, on the security issue 


 concerning the border of Afghanistan and Pakistan. What was 


 the focus of your meeting?



 SPECTER: Well, Congressman Patrick Kennedy and I are in the 


 region. We had been to Israel on our way to Syria. And we had 


 meetings with President Musharraf today, and we also saw 


 Afghanistan President Karzai, who just coincidentally was in 


 town.



 And we had a meeting with former Prime Minister Benazir 


 Bhutto this evening at nine o'clock Pakistan time, and it was 


 scheduled then because she had a full day of campaigning.



 And our concerns are about what is happening here, the 


 stability; what's happening with the supreme court; what's 


 happening with our fight against terrorism, our efforts to 


 capture Osama Bin Laden; and what is happening to the very 


 substantial funding the United States has put in here; what 


 the prospects were for the election.



 I've known Benazir Bhutto for the better part of two 


 decades, having been visiting her in Karachi back in 1988 and 


 when she was Prime Minister in 1995. And we were looking 


 forward to talking to her to get to her evaluation on whether 


 the elections would be honest and open, and to get her sense 


 of the situation.



 HALL: And what did you think her--the impact that she 


 played while, of course, she was alive, with her opposition 


 group, and now with her assassination? Obviously, you felt 


 that she was important, a critical piece of this puzzle, in 


 that you were planning to meet with her at 9 p.m., at the 


 time there.



 SPECTER: Well, Benazir Bhutto was a very prominent person 


 this year, the leader of a major party; had a real 


 opportunity to become Prime Minister, a brilliant woman with 


 a family background. Her father had been Prime Minister. She 


 had been Prime Minister twice.



 She had a lot of popular support, and she was the first 


 woman Prime Minister of Pakistan and a very prominent woman 


 internationally, sort of, the symbol of modernity, so that 


 it's a tremendous loss, and we. . .



 HALL: And what do you think is the . . .



 SPECTER: . . . we can't let the terrorists win. We have to 


 rebound and we have to be sure that democracy moves forward 


 in Pakistan.



 HALL: But Senator, we're looking at the images out of 


 Pakistan, and I don't want to paint a picture bleaker than it 


 is, but certainly, immediately following the assassination, 


 people spilling out into the streets blaming, some of them, 


 anyway, Pervez Musharraf--quite a picture of instability. 


 What needs to happen, in your opinion, being there?



 SPECTER: Well, it is easy to blame people, but it's 


 premature. There has to be an investigation. There has to be 


 determination, to the extent possible, as to what happened.



 When you have an assassination, this sort of a violent act, 


 you have to expect people to be erupting in the streets. But 


 there will be a tomorrow. There will be elections here. We 


 have to assert the democratic process and we have to move 


 forward.



 We cannot let the crazy suicide bombers take over the 


 world. And that is our job for tomorrow.



 HALL: And still very early into this breaking news, 


 Senator--again, to update our audience, we are following 


 developments in Pakistan in the assassination of former Prime 


 Minister Benazir Bhutto. Senator Arlen Specter was expected 


 to meet with her this evening.



 Senator Specter, the impact--so many people are wondering, 


 with Pakistan being so crucial to this war on terror, that 


 there may perhaps be a vacuum in that country, now, with the 


 assassination having taken place and this could offset all of 


 the work, the $10 billion that's been put into Pakistan and 


 the support of Pervez Musharraf since 9/11.



 SPECTER: Well, we are not going to allow this incident, 


 tragic as it is, to upset the very important work at hand. 


 You have the Pakistani government working with the United 


 States government. They have been allies of ours.



 We have not been pleased with some of the things that they 


 have done, like having the chief justice under house arrest 


 or having an emergency suspension, which has been eliminated.



 But the elections are going forward and we are going to 


 rebound from this event and do what is necessary to defeat 


 the terrorists and to have the democratic elections. We are 


 not going to give in.



 And we will rebound, and stability will be restored after 


 the outbursts which are present tonight. It may take some 


 time, but we're going to win.



 HALL: Senator, do you have confidence in Pervez Musharraf 


 and the job that he's done and doing?



 SPECTER: I do have confidence. When Congressman Patrick 


 Kennedy and I met with him today, we raised a number of our 


 concerns in a very candid discussion.



 We are concerned that the substantial U.S. funding be 


 directed toward the specific purposes of fighting terrorism. 


 And we are checking to see if some of it might have been 


 diverted. But by and large, we think the monies are going in 


 the right direction. We expressed concern about what is 


 happening with the supreme court here. We expressed concern 


 about the state of emergency, but that has been reversed.



 The elections are going forward and he is our best hope 


 there. It is not a perfect situation. Nothing is. But we have 


 to utilize the government which is here to help stabilize it 


 and to move forward.



 HALL: All right, Senator Arlen Specter from Islamabad.



 Thank you very much, Senator, for your time, just on the 


 very day you were expected to meet with former Prime Minister 


 Benazir Bhutto. Thank you, Senator.



 Just before midnight on the night of Bhutto's death, we 


 ventured back out into the city to go to Bhutto's local 


 headquarters to pay our respects. We met with her supporters, 


 gave our condolences and laid flowers beneath a photo of her.



 We were scheduled to travel to Lahore the following morning 


 to meet with Chaudhry Pervaiz Elahi and Mian Shahbaz Sharif 


 and visit a USAID project. After the State Department 


 consulted with the Pakistani government, it was recommended 


 that our delegation cancel the planned trip to Lahore due to 


 the deteriorating and uncertain security situation. The 


 following morning we left Chakala Airfield for Amman, Jordan.

