# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `1b560cdae7e8cb60a1fa18eff9c4e4c4`
`Mr. BOEHNER â€” 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Let me thank my colleague for yielding and say, thank 
goodness that we're finally here.

Mr. Speaker, over 100 days trying to come to an agreement on how to 
do the right thing for our men and women in the military fighting for 
our freedom and our safety and our security right here at home. I ask 
myself, why? What have we done over the last 100-plus days, and why has 
it taken this long? And there is one image that keeps coming back to 
me, and it's from my friend, the chairman of the committee, and it is 
his favorite saying: There are a lot of Members who have been posing 
for holy pictures over the last 100-plus days. The gentleman knows 
exactly what I'm talking about.

Put yourself in the shoes of our men and women fighting in Iraq, 
fighting in Afghanistan and elsewhere around the world. And think about 
the message that we have sent them over the last 100-plus days. We sent 
them there to do a job. We sent them there on a mission. And yet, for 
the last three and a half months we had a debate going on here that has 
undermined their efforts, lowered their morale and clearly sent the 
wrong message to our allies and to our enemies. But thank goodness that 
we're finally here.

We have no artificial deadlines. We have no surrender dates. We have 
no shackles on the generals and our troops on the ground. We are going 
to give our generals and our troops what they need to win in Iraq. And 
winning in Iraq is important for our country. I don't believe that 
there is a Member in this Chamber who doesn't understand that winning 
in Iraq is important to our country. It has been difficult; mistakes 
have been made. But think about why we went to Iraq. We went to Iraq to 
get rid of a brutal dictator who was a threat to his own population and 
to all of his neighbors. We succeeded.

We went to Iraq to eliminate weapons of mass destruction. Of course 
they were shipped somewhere else. But we know that they were used 
against their own Iraqi people. But they are not there. We went there 
to help install a government to build a basic democracy in a part of 
the world that has never known it. We are in the midst of it, and we 
are succeeding.

It is al Qaeda, the sworn enemy of the United States, who wants to 
kill us, who made Iraq the central front in their war with us. If we 
don't take on al Qaeda in Iraq and defeat them, where will we draw the 
line? Will we draw the line when they go into Saudi Arabia? Will we 
draw the line when they try to decimate Israel? Or are we going to wait 
and draw the line when we are fighting the terrorists here in America?

Think once again about those young men and women in our military out 
there doing their duty for us. We, the Congress of the United States, 
authorized the President to go to Iraq and to do what I've just 
outlined. We sent them there. And this last 100 days, we've questioned 
whether in fact we really should have done it. I think it is far too 
late. They are there. They are on the ground. They deserve our support. 
And, finally, tonight they are going to get the resources they need to 
try to win the battle in Iraq.

Now let me just say something about the rest of this bill, the second 
part of this bill that has some $20 billion worth of additional 
spending, probably some $8 or $9 billion of nonmilitary, nonveteran 
spending that does not belong in this bill. It may be well-meaning. It 
may be well-intentioned, but it doesn't deserve to be put on the backs 
of our men and women in the military serving our country. It deserves 
to be done in a regular order.

When it comes to that part of the bill, I am going to have to vote 
''no.'' To load this bill up with not only all the additional spending, 
but we've got a half a dozen pension issues. We've got a minimum wage 
issue. We've got a whole host of other issues that don't deserve to be 
put on the backs of our men and women in the military. It is a sneaky 
way to do business. I wish it was not in there. And on that portion of 
the bill, I will vote ''no'' tonight.

But I am glad that we're here. I know that there are differences in 
this Chamber, Members on both sides of the aisle who feel differently 
about our mission in Iraq and our chances of success there. I know when 
I came here and every 2 years since I've been here, on the opening day, 
we all stand here; we raise our right hands and swear to uphold and 
defend the Constitution of the United States. There are a lot of my 
colleagues that have heard me make the statement that I didn't come 
here to be a Congressman. I came here to do something. And I think at 
the top of our list is providing for the safety and security of the 
American people. That's at the top of our list. After 3,000 of our 
fellow citizens died at the hands of these terrorists, when are we 
going to stand up and take them on? When are we going to defeat them?

Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you, if we don't do it now, and if 
we don't have the courage to defeat this enemy, we will long, long 
regret it. So, thank you for the commitment to get the job done today.