# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `1b61025f8e915379af63f65c34cad209`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Wisconsin for 
yielding me the time, and I thank all of those who participated in this 
debate today.

Mr. Speaker, my friends on the other side of the aisle apparently 
believe in and want to continue the status quo. That is their right. 
But I believe they are wrong. They have been wrong for 4 long, deadly 
years. So it is time for new leadership, for a new direction, for a new 
policy, a policy based on reality, not spin, not press release, not 
intimidation.

My friends say that we can't leave Iraq until the Iraqis ask us to 
leave. I saw a story that appeared on the Associated Press wire today 
which states that a majority of Iraqi lawmakers endorsed a draft bill 
calling for a timetable for the withdrawal of foreign troops and 
demanding a freeze on the number already in the country.

Well, Mr. Speaker, we just heard from the gentleman from California 
that the Iraqi Government represents the Iraqi people, and apparently 
the Iraqi Government is telling us they want us to have a time certain 
when we leave.

Mr. Speaker, enough is enough. Our friends on the other side of the 
aisle argue that the best way to support the troops is to ask them to 
participate in a failed policy. Well, I disagree.

The question before us is simple: Do you want to end this war? If you 
do, then you will vote for the bill before us.

Mr. Speaker, let me end this debate the way I began it, by reminding 
everyone in this Chamber, Republican and Democrat, reminding everybody, 
whether you supported the war initially or whether you opposed the war, 
that we all have a responsibility. We have a responsibility to those 
men and women who we have put in harm's way, and that responsibility is 
to act responsibly, to make sure that we are giving every consideration 
before we put them in harm's way.

We are now entering the fifth year of this war. We have a President 
who refuses to admit one error, one misjudgment. The fact of the matter 
is, there are two ways to end this war: one, with the cooperation and 
the help of the President, which we all want. The other way is for 
Congress to do its job, to take its responsibility seriously and to do 
what is necessary to bring this war to an end.

I urge all of my colleagues to vote for the underlying bill.