# EXTENDING PARITY IN APPLICATION OF CERTAIN LIMITS TO MENTAL HEALTH  BENEFITS
## `1c17c79af55f63fdd321da60aaa50e58`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 6 February 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, allow me to thank the 
distinguished gentleman from New Jersey for his kindness and his 
leadership, and to add my appreciation as well for Congressman Kennedy 
for the years that he has worked on this issue. And I join them in 
raising our voices.

I remember the leadership that came from another Member from New 
Jersey, and Congressman Pallone has now embraced this issue in his 
capacity and leadership on the Energy and Commerce Committee. And my 
classmate, Congressman Kennedy, has been pressing this message along 
with Congressman Ramstad for a very long time, that we have the 
capacity and the empathy and sympathy to address the question of mental 
health parity, but we have not yet had the energy and the results-
oriented efforts that it needs.

I pay tribute, of course, to the late Senator Paul Wellstone, who 
came to my district some years ago through my invitation as cochair of 
the Congressional Children's Caucus and visited our juvenile detention 
centers and emphasized that many of the juveniles that were then 
incarcerated also needed greater access to mental health facilities and 
mental health services.

Mental health parity and the extension thereof of the annual lifetime 
limits is crucial to save lives. How many of us have seen on the news 
or addressed our constituents where seniors, parents are calling the 
police for their adult children who are suffering from mental health 
needs? Tragically, some of those encounters end in death. There is no 
need for that.

In addition, we will be seeing, as the war in Iraq ends and 
Afghanistan's war and conflict ends, numbers of individuals coming back 
who have been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress, and we will say 
that's the Veterans Affairs' concern, or brain trauma. Yes, in the 
realm of the framework of their return, it may be; but they will live, 
and through their lifetime may have encounters that need to have the 
coverage of a mental health parity bill.

I support H.R. 4848 and thank Congressman Pallone for the insight to 
move forward on this extension. But I pray tell that we will find it in 
our determination to move forward on the Paul Wellstone parity bill 
that is being carried by Congressman Kennedy and a number of others. I 
have supported this legislation for a number of years, so I rise 
enthusiastically for H.R. 4848.

And, if I might, having missed the discussion on H. Con. Res 283, the 
bill dealing with Kenya, I simply want to add my statement into the 
Record, but call out for the compliance with this legislation, as it is 
passed, that we have sanctions for those who will not come to the peace 
table, that we compliment Kenya for its democracy, but, as well, that 
we push them toward a settlement of this vicious incident, having 
killed 900 people.

I end my comments by asking for enthusiastic support for H.R. 4848.