# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2740, MEJA EXPANSION AND  ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `1c6456508e65b5959f3ef4a887c578a1`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER â€” 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentlewoman yielding me 
time. I do think the admonition is important to focus on the substance 
of this legislation. The Rules Committee, as she points out, wasn't 
given an alternative and there is nobody in this Chamber, I think, that 
has a better, more well-deserved reputation for being a thoughtful, 
bipartisan Member to try and solve problems than our colleague, the 
primary sponsor of this legislation, the gentleman from North Carolina 
(Mr. Price). I am privileged to be a cosponsor of the legislation with 
him.

Mr. Speaker, this is an opportunity for this Chamber to focus on an 
important area of accountability. We have in the newspapers, not just 
this week, we have had accounts going on not just for months, but from 
the outset of this war about the trend to outsource fundamental 
functions that heretofore have been the province of United States 
soldiers. It has had significant consequences. We are now finding, as a 
result of some of the hearings, that there have been repeated instances 
of violence. We are finding that there is no good remedy currently 
under the law. There is basically no clear line of authority to get 
back to be able to exercise the oversight and accountability of the 
security function that has been outsourced.

What Mr. Price has offered up is a small part of moving in the 
direction that we should have done from the outset. I would hope that 
we can get past the discussion on the rule. I plan on supporting it and 
look forward to a vigorous debate on the floor to open up this question 
of accountability for a war that is outsourced, for costs that are five 
times what an American soldier would do to provide exactly the same 
function. With the American soldier at one fifth the cost of a 
mercenary there is a clear line of authority. If something goes 
sideways, we know what is going to happen.

Mr. Price has offered up legislation that gets us started in that 
direction. It is a thoughtful, bipartisan, narrowly crafted effort. It 
is not the whole answer, but it moves us in the right direction. I 
would strongly urge that my colleagues support the rule, support the 
underlying bill, and get us moving into an important area of debate, 
accountability and responsibility. Our failure in this area is going to 
have serious consequences for years to come. We are already seeing this 
with the Iraqi Government. We are seeing it in terms of problems on the 
ground. We are seeing questions that are being asked, answers demanded 
by Americans and Iraqis alike. Working together on this bill is a first 
step towards remedying that situation.