# None
## `1ca5aaca2aeef07d2c0f846f752d0098`
`Mr. BOND â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I would comment that in the process of 
working out votes, the minority leader has offered to the majority 
leader to schedule votes on this and other amendments at an appropriate 
time. There is no need to do the all-night gig. It may make grand 
Hollywood theater, but it doesn't necessarily move forward what is an 
extremely important bill.

This is a bill that not only authorizes our war fighters, it provides 
additional resources. It provides them a badly needed 3-plus percent 
pay increase. We traditionally move these bills forward because, when 
we are fighting a war, we need to support the troops. But these 
amendments are designed to substitute the judgment of 535 generals in 
this wonderful air-conditioned Capitol for the judgment of the generals 
and the commanders in the field who every day go out and fight that 
battle to maintain peace, restore peace and security in the area, and 
to protect our home front.

The Iraqis have said they don't want us there permanently. I think we 
all agree we don't want to be there permanently. But they also said we 
need to continue to train their troops. We need to make sure they 
maintain security in the area. They are not ready to do that now.

Sunni sheiks in Al Anbar Province, which I was pleased to visit 2 
months ago, are working with our forces and they are making great 
progress. They have been sending in their young Sunni men to be trained 
as Iraqi police and Iraqi Army. They need training. They are not ready 
yet. They are being very successful because our American marines are 
embedded with them. With them, they have taken Ramadi, the capital of 
Al Anbar, which was totally under the control of al-Qaida a few months 
ago, and made it a safe place not only for Americans but for everyday 
Iraqis to walk the streets, to do their business, to get back to a 
normal life.

I am here today as the vice chairman of the Senate Select Committee 
on Intelligence to talk about an important report issued today. Today, 
the Director of National Intelligence released key findings that could 
be made public on the National Intelligence Estimate, or NIE, on the 
terrorist threat to the U.S. homeland. That report outlined a number of 
key findings of which I think our colleagues and all Americans should 
be aware.

First, today's intelligence report found that carrying the battle to 
al-Qaida, gaining worldwide cooperation in the war on terror, has set 
them back. They have made our country and other free countries safer 
because al-Qaida and its related radical Islamist groups are no longer 
able to have the free rein they had prior to our attacks to clean them 
out of Afghanistan and to keep them out of Iraq.

In fact, our efforts have prevented al-Qaida from attacking the 
United States since the September 11, 2001, attacks, and they have 
disrupted a number of terrorist plots outlined in the classified 
portion of the report, designed to take effect in the United States of 
America.

One of the good parts about it is that the terrorist groups are now 
telling each other the United States is a harder target. That makes 
them less likely to attack here. That is great news. It means the hard 
work of our men and women in the military, our intelligence services 
and our law enforcement in the United States, are doing their job--and 
they are succeeding.

While America is safer, there are still threats around the world, and 
we have to remain vigilant in fighting terrorists at home and abroad. 
The intelligence report notes that al-Qaida leadership continues to 
plan attacks. They have a relative safe haven in the northwest area of 
Pakistan known as the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, or FATA. 
They are increasing their capabilities from that area to launch attacks 
on the United States.

It is important to point out that these findings do not mean, as some 
erroneously reported last week, that al-Qaida is as strong as it was 
before the September 11 attacks, or even nearly as strong. It does mean 
that America must always be prepared for attacks on our homeland and 
continue to take appropriate offensive and defensive counterterrorism 
activities.

Unfortunately, the intelligence report, the NIE, also finds that 
international cooperation against terrorism may wane as September 11 
becomes a distant memory. That ought to be a real concern to all of us. 
I hope my colleagues take note because this should serve as a warning 
to all of us, a warning for Congress, and the American people to remain 
vigilant and committed to the war on terror. Our responsibility in 
Congress is to continue to give law enforcement and the intelligence 
community the tools they need to track, interrogate, capture or kill 
and prosecute terrorists, such as the PATRIOT Act and the modernization 
of the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act--very important; 
Also, the 9/11 Commission recommendations on changing congressional 
oversight to make it effective in dealing with the new challenges put 
on the intelligence community today.

Knowing full well that the retreat-and-defeat crowd does not have the 
votes, I see the majority has opted for political gains and political 
theater. With apologies to our dedicated floor staff and the many 
wonderful men and women who keep this place operating, you are going to 
be operating all night long, around the clock, for a political show, 
not to achieve anything significant in terms of helping win the war.

Foremost, the biggest losers from all this grandstanding are our 
fighting men and women who are risking their lives on the line in Iraq, 
carrying out


their mission and the mission they believe they are carrying out 
successfully.

The majority has a political game plan. But, sadly, it is not about 
how to achieve victory, it is a plan blindly fixated on trying to 
embarrass the President, trying to figure out a way they can win votes 
for November 2008. It offers no help for the creation of stability and 
freedom in Iraq and thus continued safety for ourselves.

Our commanders and fighting men and women, while this debate is 
underway, are actually trying to achieve victory. But they have been 
listening to us and they have questions. They send questions to us 
saying: Why are you not going to give General Petraeus's plan, which he 
said he would report on in September, an opportunity to demonstrate it 
can work? Why have you no patience? We, who are sitting in the air-
conditioned Halls of Congress while they are out in 130-plus degree 
heat risking their lives. They are willing to wait. But they are 
watching and listening to the cut-and-run arguments. So are our allies, 
Sunnis, such as the Sunni sheiks in Al Anbar Province who are risking 
everything if we run and leave because they have taken on al-Qaida. 
They don't want to live under al-Qaida. The neighbors of Iraq who are 
gradually realizing they have a role in helping Iraq be stable are 
seeing us falter and hesitate.


Do you know who else is listening? Al-Qaida and the violent 
terrorists with whom we are at war, and I suspect they are absolutely 
revelling in what they are hearing. I imagine they loved hearing our 
majority leader saying the war has been lost. That is not a great 
message for our troops but one that certainly brings cheer to the 
hearts of al-Qaida.

They call for troop withdrawal deadlines. They say the cost of war is 
too high. The constant barrage of negative news without the balanced 
report on the progress our troops are making--we need only listen to 
the words of the terrorists themselves who have identified Iraq as the 
central front on the war on terrorism. Osama bin Laden, in his audio 
message to what he hoped were his fellow Muslims in December of 2004, 
said:




 The world's millstone and pillar is in Baghdad, the capital 


 of the caliphate.


Our own servicemembers such as 1LT Pete Hegseth, an Iraqi war veteran 
and director of the Vets for Freedom recently, knows the importance of 
achieving victory. He said, as one who has been on the frontlines:




 Iraq today is the front line of a global Jihad being waged 


 against America and its allies. Both Osama bin Laden and 


 Ayman al-Zawahiri have said so.


But despite this enormous effort, the retreat-and-defeat crowd still 
wants to micromanage this war 8,000 miles away from the fight and set 
timetables and troop movements and ultimately to engineer a defeat 
brought on by retreat.

These actions most egregiously send mixed messages to our enemies all 
across the globe that our Nation is fractured, weak, and does not have 
the will to see it through. This same message can discourage allies and 
the millions of Iraqis who are risking their lives for a chance at 
freedom by supporting us. For not only is the safety and security of 
our Nation and allies at stake but so, too, is our credibility.

Critics of us have frequently claimed the war has damaged the U.S. 
image and credibility throughout the world. Yet the retreat-and-defeat 
crowd ignores the irreparable harm that would be done here were we to 
leave this mission unfinished.

If you think our image and reputation has plummeted, wait and watch 
it nosedive if we were to leave Iraq before finishing the job. Think 
about what would happen to the millions of Iraqi citizens and leaders 
who took a stand against terrorism, who committed to take a stand with 
us to rebuild their country and fight against the forces of radical 
Islam and terrorism. What are we to say to the millions of Iraqis who 
trusted America and believed we would stay until the mission was 
complete, only to see them slaughtered by terrorists as a result of our 
abandoning them before they were able to stand on their own.

I mentioned on this floor before, what did we say to the thousands of 
South Vietnamese or millions of Cambodians who put their trust in 
America and were slaughtered after we abandoned them? History has 
taught us that when America abandons its commitments to spreading 
liberty and freedom, we are not the only ones who suffer. Hundreds of 
thousands may well suffer, but it will come back to harm us and haunt 
us in our homeland--not only our credibility.

In January of this year, before the Senate Intelligence Committee, 
the leaders--the Director of National Intelligence, the CIA Director, 
the Defense Intelligence Agency Director--testified in public session. 
They said if we pulled out on a political timetable, chaos would ensue. 
What would happen?

No. 1, there would be a tremendous increase in slaughter among Sunni 
and Shia in Iraq.

No. 2, al-Qaida would be able to establish a safe haven, a platform 
where they could get the oil revenues they needed to fund their efforts 
and significantly increase the threat to our United States of America 
and possibly even to foment a regionwide civil war, as other nations 
would come in to the rescue of their coreligionists in Iraq.

To ignore these considerations and questions simply because they are 
perceived to be more politically palatable than continuing the vital 
mission that our troops are fighting is shortsighted at best and 
dangerous at worst. Those who are attempting to end the war 
precipitously because they are vested politically in defeat do not want 
to talk about the fact that the war in Iraq will do anything but end--
in fact would only grow more dangerous--if we leave our enemies in 
Iraq, unlike in Vietnam, the victors. The victors would follow us home. 
The North Vietnamese did not follow us home after we lost in Vietnam. 
Al-Qaida will follow us home if we allow them to achieve victory over 
us in Iraq.

We have seen in recent weeks, since the implementation of General 
Petraeus's plan, movement has begun in the right direction. When I 
returned from Iraq in May, I observed, even at that point, some initial 
signs that the planning and working was moving in the right direction. 
Sunni sheiks in Anbar are now fighting al-Qaida; more than 50 joint 
U.S.-Iraq stations have been established in Baghdad, conducting regular 
patrols, resulting in increased security and actionable intelligence.

Muqtada al-Sadr has felt the heat. His followers, while perhaps have 
demonstrated against American troops, are not contesting them. They and 
Jaysh al-Mahdi, the Shia militant group, has stood down. The Iraqi Army 
and police forces are increasingly fighting on their own, with their 
size and capability growing.

July 16, the Wall Street Journal carried an article by Omar Fadhil. 
He said the surge is working, fully operational for barely a month. He 
defines the two most dangerous enemies in Iraq we face in Iraq, Muqtada 
al-Sadr's militia and al-Qaida, and he says:




 Sadr's militias have moved the main battlefield south to 


 cities like Samwah, Nasiriyah and Diwaniyah where there's no 


 American surge of troops, and from which many Iraqi troops 


 were recalled to serve in Baghdad. But over there, too, the 


 Iraqi security forces and local administrations did not show 


 the weakness that Sadr was hoping to see. As a result, Sadr's 


 representatives have been forced to accept ''truces.''



 This may make things sound as if Sadr has the upper hand, 


 that he can force a truce on the state. But, the fact this is 


 missing from news reports is that, with each new eruption of 


 clashes, Sadr's position becomes weaker as tribes and local 


 administrations join forces to confront his outlaw militias.



 And regarding al-Qaida, he writes that they, al-Qaida, have 


 not been any luckier than Sadr, and the tide began to turn 


 even before the surge was announced. The change came from the 


 most unlikely city and unlikely people, Ramadi and its Sunni 


 tribes.



 He goes on to say: In Baghdad the results have been just as 


 spectacular so far. The district where al-Qaida claimed to 


 have established it Islamic emirate is losing big now, and at 


 the hands of its former allies who have turned on al-Qaida 


 and are slowly reaching out to government.

MG Rick Lynch, 3rd Infantry Division Commander, provided a telling 
example in yesterday's New York Times.

In the village of Al Taqa, about 20 miles southwest of Baghdad, Lynch 
said women and children were taping plastic pipes on streetlamps to 
warn Iraqi security forces of roadside bombs. He also stated that 
locals have exposed al-Qaida hideouts, helped troops locate 170 large 
caches of arms, and guaranteed organized armed neighborhood controls 
could keep safety.

While I would agree that there is no guarantee of victory, and we 
have a


long way to go, we certainly need to make every effort to achieve it. 
The war in Iraq is far more important on a front that is far larger 
than that battlefield. It is the global battlefield. That is why we are 
fighting in Iraq, to keep our country safe, to make sure al-Qaida does 
not get the upper hand, to make sure our troops, who are carrying out 
their mission to stop al-Qaida, can do so in Iraq rather than hand them 
the victory which will embolden them, which will allow them significant 
resources from the oil-rich Iraqi sands and give them the courage to 
expand recruiting and attack our country.

We cannot allow cut-and-run amendments to be added to a vital 
authorization bill to support our American troops.

I yield the floor.