# UNITED STATES-INDIA NUCLEAR COOPERATION APPROVAL AND NONPROLIFERATION  ENHANCEMENT ACT
## `1cbc7002b5064e58fd3adae952cadc0e`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 26 September 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have reservations about the 
rapid way in which H.R. 7081, the United States-India Nuclear 
Cooperation Approval and Nonproliferation Enhancement Act, was brought 
to the House floor without consideration and amendment in the Foreign 
Affairs Committee of which I am a member. However, despite my concerns 
and my steadfast commitment to non-proliferation, I rise in support of 
this legislation and our Nation's important relationship with India.

The United States' relationship with India is of paramount importance 
to our nation's political and economic future. With the receding of the 
Cold War's global divisions and the new realities of globalization and 
trans-national terrorism, we have embarked on a new era of promise, 
possibility and uncertainty. This means the United States bears an 
especially heavy responsibility to remain engaged in all regions of the 
world, with all nation-states. It is in the national interest for the 
United States to continue our policy of engagement, collaboration, and 
exchange which has served the nation well in the past, particularly in 
the South Asia region.

This legislation approves the U.S.-India Agreement for Peaceful 
Nuclear Cooperation, notwithstanding the procedures in the Atomic 
Energy Act and the Hyde Act. It declares that the Bush Administration's 
past statements are authoritative interpretations of the agreement, but 
also reiterates the policy directives in the Hyde Act that the U.S. 
will seek to prevent other nations from nuclear trade with India if 
U.S. halts U.S. trade to India because of a nuclear test. Furthermore, 
the supply of U.S. fuel supply to India should match India's reactor 
needs, rather than a stockpile to weather an international fuel 
sanction should India resume nuclear testing.

Importantly, this legislation ensures Congress retains the ability to 
review and disapprove (via a joint resolution of disapproval enacted 
within 30 days) a subsequent agreement to permit India to extract 
plutonium and uranium from U.S.-origin spent reactor fuel. It re-
establishes Congressional authority to legislatively reject (via a 
joint resolution of disapproval within 60 days) a Presidential decision 
to resume nuclear trade with any country that detonates a nuclear 
explosive device. It is also vital that this legislation requires the 
President to certify that the India Agreement is consistent with U.S. 
NPT commitment not to assist in any way in the acquisition of nuclear 
weapons.

Mr. Speaker, I visited India and met with India's Prime Minister in 
July of this year where we discussed how our two Nation's continue to 
collaborate economically, politically, and technologically. In this 
Nation and in my city of Houston, we have a large and vibrant Indian-
American community which makes significant contributions to the 
vitality of our democracy. I am confident that we can work with India 
so that they can meet their energy needs through nuclear technology. 
Accordingly, that is why it is important that this legislation urges 
India to sign and implement an IAEA Additional Protocol for Safeguards, 
as India has committed to do. It also restricts issuance of U.S. export 
licenses under the Agreement (which has entered into force) until India 
completes the process of bringing its Safeguards Agreement with the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) into force.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation also requires the Administration to 
keep the Congress fully and completely informed regarding new 
initiatives for civil nuclear cooperation agreements. It requires 
additional reporting requirements for an Annual Report to Congress on 
implementation of the Agreement required by the Hyde Act. It also 
requires a Presidential certification that it is U.S. policy to seek 
greater restrictions on transfer or uranium enrichment or plutonium 
reprocessing equipment technology at the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) 
or with NSG governments before entry-into-force of the India Agreement. 
Finally, this legislation declares that the India Agreement does not 
supersede the Atomic Energy Act or Hyde Act.

Peaceful nuclear cooperation with India can serve multiple U.S. 
foreign policy objectives so long as it is undertaken in a manner that 
minimizes potential risks to the nonproliferation regime. This will be 
best achieved by sustained and active engagement and cooperation 
between the India and the United States.

This landmark legislation serves both our strategic interests and our 
long-standing nonproliferation objectives. We should heed the sage 
words of the Iraq Study Group which recommends engaging rather than 
abandoning the possibilities dialogue offers. Our engagement and 
subsequent abandonment of Iran has resulted in their current pursuit of 
nuclear technology. We should not make the same mistake in South Asia. 
We need to remain engaged with India and Pakistan so that they remain 
our most important allies rather than our adversaries.

We are on the path to fostering an enduring relationship of mutually 
beneficial cooperation with India. The new realities of globalization 
and interdependence have brought a convergence of interests between the 
world's largest democracy and the world's most powerful one. I 
accompanied President Clinton in his groundbreaking trip to India 
marking a new phase in the bonds that bind our two countries. This 
legislation builds on this relationship


by permitting an invigorated relationship in the field of nuclear 
cooperation, an area of critical importance given India's increasing 
energy demands.

I am hopeful that the nonproliferation measures in this legislation 
anchor India in the international nonproliferation framework by 
including: safeguards between India and the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (IAEA); end use monitoring of U.S. exports to India; and 
strengthening the Nuclear Suppliers Group, which are the group of 
countries that restrict nuclear proliferation throughout the world.

In addition, this legislation maintains Congressional oversight over 
the ongoing relationship of nuclear cooperation between the U.S. and 
India. We must continue to enhance our nonproliferation policy and 
bolster our argument that the rest of the world should agree to this 
robust inspection regime.

In conclusion, I support this legislation, and I urge my colleagues 
to do the same.