# FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
## `1cc1eebfe66aeee4c372845b280b282d`
`Mr. KING of Iowa â€” 2 March 2010`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. It's a privilege and an 
honor to be recognized by you to address you on the floor of the House 
of Representatives. Having watched the collection of colleagues from 
the other side of the aisle over the last 60 minutes, a lot of subjects 
were brought up and I think delivered in a professional fashion by my 
colleagues, and I hope they know I'm always open to dialogue if they 
have some things that they would like to exchange with me. I'm here. 
And I have often asked my colleagues to yield, and if they should ask 
me to yield, I'm happy to do so. I think it's important to have an 
exchange, a dialogue.

First, we learned last Thursday that Republicans have a lot of good 
ideas. We also learned that many of those good ideas are suppressed by 
the iron-fisted gavel of the Speaker of the House of Representatives.

Also, as I looked at the event as it unfolded, Mr. Speaker, that 6/1/
2/ hours of discussion that took place last February 25, last Thursday, 
at Blair House, on health care, a number of things came to me, but 
looking at the data was quite interesting. Just to boil it down to raw 
numbers and regular comparison, it was this: that for every 2 minutes 
that a Republican spoke, the President spoke for an additional 2 
minutes and another Democrat spoke for another 2 minutes. So it was 
really two-to-one in the time that was used. As the President said, 
well, it's okay if he talks a long time, even though the time was very 
limited to the others that were talking because, after all, he is the 
President. So the time doesn't charge against him. It's an interesting 
concept that I think that heretofore has not been uttered by the 
President of the United States and in any previous administration.

Another thing that struck me that appears to have not been mentioned 
by the pundits or the people that observed this were the number of 
times that the President interrupted those who were speaking. Now, I 
can identify with what this is like. I have a number of times in my 
legislative life run into the situation where there's a limited amount 
of time to speak and maybe the clock has 1 minute on it, 2 minutes, or 
5 minutes, or, as it does right now tonight, it's got 60 minutes on it. 
So you watch the clock and you try to pack as much information into 
that period of time as you can. When something happens to break that up 
and change the rhythm and shorten the time that you have, you have to 
adjust your message to compress it down into the time that you have 
left.

I believe that the clock that was set for the Members of Congress to 
speak was set at 3/1/2/ minutes. I don't know that. I believe that. I 
was thinking of the moment that the Republican leader in the Senate, 
Senator McConnell, introduced Senator Coburn for his 3/1/2/ minutes to 
speak. I do remember the log on the time. It's pretty close to this. 
Senator Coburn spoke for a minute and fourteen seconds. He was 
interrupted by the President of the United States for something like 4 
minutes and 20 seconds. And then he came back and he spoke again for a 
little bit more than a minute and he was re-interrupted again by the 
President of the United States. That happened about one more time in 
that iteration. The time then that was left for Senator Coburn had 
expired. And it was the thought and the concept that was driven by 
Senator Coburn was completely split and delayed because the President 
interrupted and burned up the time. And even though they may have reset 
the stopwatch on Senator Coburn's time, it isn't the same as having 3 
uninterrupted minutes.

The President claimed more than that on many occasions throughout the 
entire day, to where it came down to this: the President spoke as much 
as either Republicans or Democrats, altogether, and he interrupted 
Members of the House and Senate, Republicans and Democrats, without 
reservation. Apparently, he believes he's the President of the United 
States and he can do that. That may be true on certain occasions and to 
a limit. But there is a limit, Mr. Speaker. And the limit was this: the 
President of the United States interrupted those who were there to be 
heard 70 times, 70 in 6/1/2/ hours; a little more than 10 times an 
hour. And of all those interruptions, he interrupted Democrats 20 
times, Republicans 50 times. Fifty interruptions. And the kind of way 
that it breaks up the rhythm and the flow of the message that's being 
delivered and the fashion that I've talked about with Senator Coburn 
whom, I have not had this discussion with, by the way. For all I know, 
he has no objection to the process that was there. But for me, I do, 
Mr. Speaker.

So it was not possible for a consistent, continual flow of cogent 
thought to flow through with the President interrupted on 70 different 
occasions over the course of 6/1/2/ hours. It's hard to get to the 
bottom of something; it's hard to make your point when you're 
continually interrupted.


But I listened to this last hour, and I think the gentlemen had an 
opportunity to make their case. And there were plenty of them. I don't 
know that anything was particularly stunning, except I looked at the 
gentleman from Wisconsin's poster that was on this easel just a few 
minutes ago. It showed the jobs that were either created or lost, not 
by the President of the United States, President Obama, or President 
Bush, but the jobs that were created or lost during their 
administration, which is a far more accurate way to discuss it. That 
span was over about a 2-year period of time.

It would have been hard to see the poster and understand it. I had to 
walk up very closely and analyze it, but it flowed back through 2009 
and through 2008, into December of 2007. The curious thing about that 
chart, which showed an upside down parabolic curve of the bar graphs of 
jobs lost on under those two administrations, appeared to be about 
equal--the last year of the Bush administration, the first year of the 
Obama administration.

The curious part was that on the chart there was only one month where 
there were actually jobs that increased. That was during the Bush 
administration. And we all know that if you would take that month and 
then you would go back into 2008 and on into 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004, 
2003, 2002, all the Bush years, one would see that there was some up 
months and some down months. And an administration needs to be looked 
at on balance. But here is what happened. These are the real viewpoints 
on what happened with our economy. It seems to be ignored.

Now the gentleman that stood at this particular podium had on his 
chart that under the Bush administration we had two wars, two tax cuts, 
one drug entitlement, and an asterisk for the Wall Street bailout. 
Well, okay. First, I will bring us up to these two wars, Mr. Speaker, 
and I can do it fairly briefly, and that is this: when President Bush 
was elected in the year 2000, after we went through all of the recounts 
in Florida and the Supreme Court decision and the allegations that the 
President was an appointed President, not an elected President, which 
no recount or analysis would support, all of the reviews of the 
elections in Florida and everywhere else in the year 2000 support that 
George Bush won that election. It's too bad it was so close. It was too 
bad we had to have such a fight. It's too bad it had to go to the 
Supreme Court. But in the end no one has made a legitimate case that 
there was anything other than a legitimate election, and every State, 
including Florida, in a count that was 527 or 537--I think 537--was the 
difference in Florida. Very, very close. And it wasn't so close, of 
course, in 2004.

But in the year 2000, when George Bush was elected President, already 
we had seen the bursting of the dot.com bubble. Now this was this false 
sector of the economy that was created because the investors in America 
and around the world saw that we had developed the microchip. And with 
the microchip we had developed the ability to store and transfer 
information more effectively, more efficiently, and more quickly than 
ever before and more cheaply than ever before.



So the investors began to bet on the dot.com companies. As they 
invested in the dot.com companies, there were companies out there that 
had capital that they could utilize. And they invested it into the new 
industry that was growing. It was the information age. The information 
revolution. As that grew, it outgrew its ability of the technology we 
were developing, it outgrew its ability to produce a good or a service 
that could improve our productivity or efficiency.



So when that happened, it created a bubble. It was the investors' 
bubble created on the speculation that there would be a value that was 
inherent in our ability to store or transfer information better than 
ever before. There's more to be said about that, Mr. Speaker, but that 
was a description of the bubble.

The bubble was bursting at the end of the Clinton administration. 
That bubble was going to burst because the markets had to adjust to the 
irrational exuberance of the investment in the dot-com bubble. So as 
that bubble was bursting and George Bush was becoming President, we saw 
a decline in our economy. Alan Greenspan, Chairman of the Fed, saw the 
bursting of the dot-com bubble and concluded that something needed to 
be done to shore that up, to fill that hole that was created in our 
economy because the bubble was collapsing and shrinking. And to fill 
the hole, Alan Greenspan decided, with or without the support of 
President Bush, that we should create a housing market that would help 
shore this up. So we ended up with unnaturally low interest rates. 
While that was going on, it played into the hands of the people that 
were driving for lower underwriting standards, lower standards of 
capital. And this was contributing to, later on, the mortgage crisis 
that we saw unfold about a year and a half ago.

That builds us up to September 11, 2009, where I see on the gentleman 
from Wisconsin's chart where he said two wars. Well, we had a dot-com 
bubble that was bursting. We had a Chairman of the Fed and others who 
had decided to shore up the hole created by the bursting of the dot-com 
bubble. Which, by the way, that bubble was pierced by the lawsuit 
against Microsoft. The bubble was growing. It was big. It was fragile. 
It was going to burst, I believe, but the bubble was pierced by the 
lawsuit against Microsoft that was brought about by a collection of 
State attorneys general who decided to file a class action lawsuit and 
took Microsoft to task and took them to court, and it cost millions and 
millions of dollars. That accelerated the collapse of the dot-com 
bubble. And as that accelerated and it went down, something needed to 
fill that void or we would have seen a serious economic decline and a 
real recession.

Well, we saw an economic decline. Some would argue--and honestly, if 
look at the numbers, it technically probably was not a recession. But 
to fill the hole, the effort was made to create a housing bubble to 
fill the void that was created by the collapse of the dot-com bubble. 
That's what was taking place when George Bush was being inaugurated as 
President of the United States. He kept Alan Greenspan on, and I don't 
object to that, Mr. Speaker. I just make that as a point.

So as these two things are happening, the bubble was deflating. The 
dot-com bubble was deflating. The housing bubble was being created to 
fill the hole. While this was going on, along came the September 11 
attack on the United States of America, the attack on what may have 
been this Capitol building or the White House. I think it would have 
been on the Capitol building. That's the plane that crashed in 
Pennsylvania. The attack on the Pentagon, where we lost our brave 
service personnel there, and the attack on the Twin Towers in New York, 
which causes us all to stop in reverent grief at the price that was 
paid by innocent Americans at the hands of the evil al Qaeda.

But, Mr. Speaker, that happened on President Bush's watch. I don't 
know that one could point to any act of omission or commission that 
contributed to that on the part of the administration. It happened. 
They found a vulnerability that had always existed, and al Qaeda 
exploited it. So we ended up at war. As the gentleman from Wisconsin's 
chart says, we were involved in two wars. We went immediately into 
Afghanistan. We drove al Qaeda out of Afghanistan and teamed up with 
the Northern Alliance, and with a very minimal number of troops in U.S. 
uniform, liberated the country of Afghanistan and eradicated 
Afghanistan of al Qaeda terrorists, these al Qaeda terrorists who 
needed some kind of habitat if they're going to operate. It was a just 
thing to do. It was a decision that had to be made early. It went very 
well, with a minimum number of American casualties, and Afghanistan was 
freed and liberated.

Then, because of intelligence worldwide, I found no one who disagreed 
with, because of a decision that was made, we went into Iraq. And not 
to deliberate on that, Mr. Speaker, and not to, let's say, kick that 
dead horse, but once we put our troops into action and asked them to 
put their lives on the line for us, for our liberty and for our freedom 
and for the destiny of America and the free world, it is our obligation 
to stand with them. And I have stood with our troops--not just our 
troops but also their mission--continually since the beginning of these 
operations as I came to this Congress and watched as the liberation of 
Iraq unfolded before our eyes on television.

So the poster that was here on this easel that said, well, under 
George Bush we lost all these jobs--well, the chart only shows the last 
year of the Bush administration--and we were under two wars, and that 
we had had two sets of tax cuts and a drug entitlement and a Wall 
Street bailout. All of that blamed on George Bush.


Well, I would like to think they could get over this and quit 
revising history, as a matter of fact. Yes, we have two wars. Which one 
would they have avoided? Would they have avoided them both? Would 
anybody say we should not have gone into Afghanistan? Would you have 
just walked away and shrugged your shoulders and pointed your finger 
and said, This is a job for the Attorney General? After all, it must be 
a law enforcement operation. Surely there couldn't be a war against 
people that would annihilate the lives of 3,000 or more Americans on a 
single day. The worst attack on American homeland in the history of our 
country, and I see it listed here on the poster as if it were something 
we should not have been engaged in.

Mr. Speaker, it was nearly unanimous here in the House of 
Representatives to grant the authority for the President of the United 
States to engage in these operations. There was only one exception, so 
that's the only person that would get to come here to the floor and 
say, I told the you so. She'd be wrong. But there's only one person 
that has the credentials to even make that statement in this entire 
Congress. It's not the people that were down here tonight, Mr. Speaker.

Yes, two wars. The war in Afghanistan was necessary and unavoidable. 
The war in Iraq was a decision that was made off of the intelligence 
that we had, and that is a separate debate. But we engaged in those 
operations, and once we did, I throw my lot with our troops and their 
mission, and I do not believe, Mr. Speaker, that you can separate the 
two. And I think it's hypocritical to state that you are for the troops 
and opposed to the mission because you find yourself in a position 
where you're arguing that you support the troops but you're asking them 
to put their lives on the line for a mission that you do not agree 
with. And that, Mr. Speaker, is a line of dichotomy and hypocrisy that 
I cannot abide. So, yes, two wars. We know the reasons for each of 
them.

And another little bullet point on this poster that was here from the 
gentleman from Wisconsin is tax cuts, two tax cuts. Yes, we had them. 
We had an economy that needed some help. I'm not a great fan of the 
rebate that took place in 2001. I think it gives the economy just a 
little sugar high, and then it goes on the way it was. But I am a fan 
of the tax cuts that unfolded in 2003 that were signed into law by 
President Bush on May 28, 2003. Those were real tax cuts. Those were 
real economic stimulation tax cuts. They were the tax cuts that caused 
people to free up capital and reinvest it again and get this economy 
rolling again. Any data you look at supports that those tax cuts--those 
cuts in capital gains, those cuts in dividends, those cuts that let


people invest money and with some confidence believe it was going to 
improve their return on investment--were smart, and they were prudent, 
and they were useful, and they worked. It is a far, far better thing to 
stimulate our economy with tax cuts than it is to try to stimulate our 
economy with debt, as this current administration is seeking to do.



So the Bush administration had two series of tax cuts: 2001, which 
was essentially a rebate--they realized it didn't work; by 2003, they 
came back and asked for real stimulation tax cuts. We provided those in 
2003, and they did work by any measure.

So when we look at the Bush administration, that little chart that 
shows only the last year of the Bush administration is not indicative 
of the Bush administration. Look at it on the balance. I don't have 
those numbers in my head. I just saw the chart. But that chart is 
indicative of the Obama administration. That is all we have to measure. 
We are in March, so we have 13 months of the Obama administration. 
There has been negative job growth every single month during the Obama 
administration. Now I'm not laying that all at his feet. He inherited a 
situation. The cycles of the global economy are part of this. The 
decisions that were made in this Congress is part of this. President 
Bush is not wholly to blame, if he is to blame at all. But what I saw 
happen was the recently admonished Charlie Rangel, now chairman of the 
Ways and Means Committee, was the anticipated chairman of the Ways and 
Means Committee immediately in the aftermath of the Democrat takeover 
of the majority of the United States House of Representatives when 
Nancy Pelosi became Speaker. And Charlie Rangel, the ranking member as 
I recall on the Ways and Means Committee, went on the national talk 
shows and he went over and over again. He went everywhere all the time. 
He talked about as much on the national talk shows as Newt Gingrich did 
when he became Speaker-elect of the House of Representatives.

And all of America watched and listened to Charlie Rangel because 
they wanted to know. And the question was continually asked: Mr. 
Rangel, which of these Bush tax cuts would you keep and which would you 
want to get rid of. And I don't recall a single straight answer, but I 
remember by November and December and January and part of February had 
rolled around, it had become clear to the analysts and pundits in 
America there was not one single tax cut of the Bush administration 
that Charlie Rangel wanted to keep, not one.

From that period of time in November of 2006 until December of 2006, 
January and February of 2007, we saw industrial investment in America 
drop like a rock. Mr. Speaker, it did so because capital is smart. 
Capital is intelligent. It will do the wise thing. When capital 
investment realized that the costs of investment were going to get 
higher and higher, then it backed away from the marketplace and slowed 
down dramatically in industrial investment. That industrial investment 
that was lacking was the precursor to this economy that we are in 
today. Now it is not the only factor. There are a whole series of 
factors. People on this side of the aisle can make their arguments, and 
people on this side of the aisle can make their arguments, too.

But I have laid out the scenario where there is a bursting of the 
dot-com bubble, accelerated by the lawsuit against Microsoft organized 
by some of the State attorneys general that started our economy down a 
decline, and the chairman of the Fed, Alan Greenspan, made a decision I 
believe to try to prop it up by creating a housing market to help bring 
this economy back up again with unnaturally low interest rates and 
favorable terms and lower underwriting requirements, and that I believe 
was a precursor to the subprime mortgage crisis that brought about this 
economic decline, all of the while while this was going on, we saw the 
majority change in the House, and then the Charlie Rangel position of 
not being committed to preserving a single Bush tax cut. And the result 
was capital left investment out of the industrial side of this 
marketplace. It slowed down our industrial production.


Mr. Speaker, there is a person in the gallery that is making gestures 
up there that are inappropriate. I would like to ask him to be removed.










announcement by the speaker pro tempore
