# PROGRESSIVE CAUCUS MESSAGE
## `1d5bbce51eef90972e401a8c3cffa843`
`Mr. ELLISON â€” 21 May 2009`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Madam Speaker, let me just signal that again tonight we 
come before this body as the Congressional Progressive Caucus with the 
Progressive Message.

The Progressive Message, this idea of coming before the American 
people, projecting a progressive message, so that the people of the 
United States can say, you know what, there are people in Congress 
today who are willing to stand up and say that ideas about generosity, 
of justice, of peace, of inclusion, of universal health care, of 
providing access for everyone, these are principles, there are people 
who are in that Congress who will stand up for these ideas, and that is 
the Congressional Progressive Caucus.

And we come and we talk about the Progressive Message where we talk 
about the importance of this message of saying we will remember great 
advances of our country of the past, like the civil rights movement, 
the women rights movement, the idea of coming together for Social 
Security, standing up for peace, getting us out of Vietnam, standing up 
against the rush to war in Iraq and Afghanistan. And today, that charge 
has not failed. That charge has not gone unnoticed, and we're here 
today to keep the call going.

And tonight for the Progressive Message, I'm really pleased to have 
join me a leader who never fails to stand up for the people, never 
shrinks from the call of the people, a progressive, dynamic leader who 
hails from the great city of Houston, the great State of Texas, none 
other than Sheila Jackson-Lee. I thank Congresswoman Jackson-Lee for 
joining me tonight for the Progressive Message. Do you want to get us 
started a little bit as tonight we talk about health care?