# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 4137, COLLEGE OPPORTUNITY AND  AFFORDABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `1e670a8656a1652d7f49c0662433e50a`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 7 February 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H.R. 4137, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act, introduced 
by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative George 
Miller. This significant piece of legislation provides greater access 
to colleges and universities making higher education affordable for all 
Americans, not just the wealthy.

A quality education continues to be the best pathway to social and 
economic mobility in this country. As a Member and Senior Whip of the 
Congressional Black Caucus, I have consistently advocated for the 
maintenance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities. This 
legislation will increase funding to Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities, as well as Hispanic and other minority-serving 
institutions, and it will expand college access and support for low-
income and minority students.

This legislation contains provisions allowing students to receive 
Pell Grant scholarships year-round, and it increases the Pell Grant 
maximum to $9,000. In addition, it strengthens college readiness 
programs, namely the TRIO and GEAR UP college readiness and support 
programs for low-income and first-generation students. These increases 
will expand college access for low-income and minority students. The 
amendment offered by my colleagues Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson 
and Representative Don Young, expands upon current Pell Grant 
eligibility allowing children who lost a mother or father to our wars 
in Iraq or Afghanistan eligible for the maximum amount of Pell Grant 
assistance. In this age of global war on terror, it is imperative that 
we ensure that those left behind by those who the ultimate sacrifice 
for our great nation are given the greatest opportunity our country can 
provide. As such, I encourage all my colleagues to join me in 
supporting this important amendment.

In Texas, over 87,000 African-Americans are incarcerated compared to 
approximately 48,000 African-Americans attending college or university. 
The disparity between the percentages of our youth in prison versus the 
number of young people in college, particularly in the African-American 
community, is disturbing to say the least. Higher education continues 
to be one of the main pathways to social and economic mobility, 
particularly in the African-American and Hispanic communities. I 
strongly support the amendment offered by my distinguished colleagues, 
Representatives Alcee Hastings and Representative Linda Sanchez, 
authorizing a nationwide program through the Department of Education to 
promote holistic community-centered partnerships aimed at mitigating 
gang violence and reducing recidivism rates among juvenile ex-offenders 
previously detained for gang-related offenses. This amendment a second-
chance to America's most vulnerable youth, I fully support the vision 
of this amendment and urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
amendment.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation contains important provisions opening 
up even wider opportunities for our veterans by increasing college aid 
and housing aid for not only veterans, but their families. This 
legislation creates a new scholarship program for active duty military 
personnel and family members, including children and spouses of active 
duty military service members or veterans. It establishes support 
centers to help veterans succeed in college and graduate. Finally, it 
ensures fairness in student aid and housing aid for veterans, making it 
easier for them to attend college while also fulfilling their military 
service duties.

Mr. Speaker, I would also like to express my strong support for an 
amendment introduced by my distinguished colleague, Congressman Danny 
Davis, restoring safeguards to student loan borrowers. Mr. Speaker, 
students who take out loans borrow money as part of their pursuit to 
better themselves and contribute to the advancement of our nation and 
economy. However, current bankruptcy laws apply the same severe 
standards to student borrowers that it applies to those trying to 
escape child support payments, alimony, overdue taxes, and criminal 
fines. Under Mr. Davis's amendment, government student loans and loans 
made by nonprofit entities would remain non-dischargeable; other 
student loans, made by for-profit banks and other lenders, would 
continue to be non-dischargeable for the first five years after they 
come due, and after that time they would be treated like other 
unsecured consumer loans in bankruptcy. Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my 
colleagues to support this amendment, and to work to restore bankruptcy 
protection to private student loans.

Understanding the federal application for Federal Student Aid can be 
challenging and complex even for the most knowledgeable parent. The 
College Opportunity and Affordability Act would streamline and simplify 
the application process giving families the tools they need to properly 
plan for their college expenses. This legislation will reform our 
higher education system ensuring students and their families have they 
information they need to understand their borrowing options when 
applying for federal and private loans.

Mr. Speaker, as an active Member of the Committee on Homeland 
Security, I am extremely supportive of the provisions in this 
legislation that boost campus safety and disaster readiness plans. Last 
year's tragedy at Virginia Tech has illustrated the horror to which 
students might be exposed, and natural disasters in recent years have 
underlined the necessity of having campus disaster plans.

This legislation helps all colleges develop and implement state-of-
the-art emergency systems and campus safety plans, and it requires that 
the Department of Education to develop and maintain a disaster plan in 
preparation for emergencies. In addition, this legislation creates a 
National Center for Campus Safety at the Department of Justice to work 
in collaboration with the COPS program. Finally, it establishes a 
disaster relief loan program, to help schools recover and rebuild in 
the event of a disaster.

This important piece of legislation gives our youth, our veterans, 
and our families the opportunity to not only dream of attending college 
but actually realize that dream. I urge my colleagues to join me in 
supporting H.R. 4137.



The material previously referred to by Mr. Hastings of Washington is 
as follows:



 Amendment to H. Res. 956 Offered by Mr. Hastings of Washington




 At the end of the resolution, add the following:



 Sec. 7. That immediately upon the adoption of this 


 resolution the House shall, without intervention of any point 


 of order, consider in the House the concurrent resolution (H. 


 Con. Res. 263) to establish the Joint Select Committee on 


 Earmark Reform, and for other purposes. The concurrent 


 resolution shall be considered as read. The previous question 


 shall be considered as ordered on the concurrent resolution 


 to final adoption without intervening motion or demand for 


 division of the question except: (1) one hour of debate 


 equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking 


 minority member of the Committee on Rules; and (2) one motion 


 to recommit.