# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `1ebaa0c4e3ced20a5a87eb4b5b4a26ca`
`Mr. BLUNT â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. BLUNT. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and for the effort he 
and others are making on the floor here today.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to refer to this editorial today from the 
Washington Post which says, ''It seems like just weeks ago''--because 
it was that--''that Congress approved funding for the war in Iraq and 
instructed General David Petraeus to report back on the war's progress 
in September. Before Congress begins ordering withdrawals, they should 
at least give those generals the months they asked for to see whether 
their strategy can offer some help.'' Mr. Speaker, I think that, in a 
nutshell, sums up what we ought to be talking about today instead of 
what we are talking about today.

I've heard this resolution referred to as a ''new way forward,'' but 
it doesn't provide a new way forward. It, frankly, serves no purpose in 
meeting the challenge that we face today with our totalitarian enemies.

I'm told that, yesterday, in the House Appropriations Committee, 45 
minutes was spent debating whether cats should be declawed before they 
were allowed into public housing; 45 minutes to decide whether cats 
should be declawed in public housing, and by the way, that committee 
decided they should, and no minutes spent to talk


about this bill. No hearing on an April 1 deadline. No outside 
testimony on a bill that was quickly put together to serve a purpose 
of, I believe, changing the subject of the failure of this Congress to 
get its other work done back to a subject that is obviously creating 
stress in America today, and that is, what do we do about the 
totalitarian enemies we face and their lack of appreciation for 
innocent human life?

Commanders in the field say that a responsible deployment from Iraq 
would take at least a year. Maybe that's why we didn't have a hearing 
on how long it would take to responsibly and safely leave Iraq. There 
was no testimony from the military about an April 1 deadline. In fact, 
I can't even find any evidence of any consultation with the military 
about an April 1 deadline.

And what does ''limited presence'' on page three of this, what does 
that mean? What does ''limited presence'' mean? I suppose it means 
whatever it needs to mean when you go home and explain why you voted 
for the bill, because it doesn't mean anything. Limited presence means 
nothing, and it's a key criteria of this approach.

The same people who say we went into Iraq without a well thought-out 
plan now want to leave without a plan at all. And that's what is wrong 
with what we're talking about today.

Let's go back to page three of the bill itself. The President is 
supposed to report back in January things like the projected number of 
armed forces necessary to carry out the missions. The projected annual 
cost of the missions. The projected duration of the missions, I guess 
to suggest that there really aren't going to be missions if you leave 
April 1 if you've been on the other side of this issue up to now, if a 
few weeks ago you were for giving the generals in the field up until 
September, and now you're for deciding what we're going to be doing in 
April without knowing what that September situation is about.

And it goes on, on page 3, to talk about whether it's necessary, I 
guess defining the missions, whether it's necessary to have Armed 
Forces to carry out the following missions; protecting United States 
diplomatic facilities and United States citizens, including members of 
the Armed Forces who are engaged in carrying out other missions. You 
can pretty much make this, I guess, whatever you want it to. Serving in 
rolls consistent with customary diplomatic positions. Engaging in 
actions to disrupt and eliminate al Qaeda and its affiliated 
organizations.

Now, we're going to decide, apparently the President should decide in 
January whether that continues to be an important thing, or whether 
training and equipping members of the Iraqi Armed Forces continues to 
be an important thing.

Where was the effort made to determine the impact on al Qaeda 
worldwide, or to determine the impact on Hezbollah or other agents of 
terror and how that would affect our security in the United States if 
we precipitously leave one more time, if we precipitously leave without 
a plan?

Only a few weeks ago, again, as others have verified all over the 
country in editorials today, I and others stood on this floor and said, 
our troops deserve a funding bill without strings and without 
congressional pork. Today, I'm here to say that they deserve a chance 
to carry out their mission without looking over their shoulder all the 
time to see what the Congress of the United States is about to do next.