# IRAQ
## `1ebe1b344e44b071da5ff196ddd97461`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I noted with some interest the headline in 
today's Washington Post. It says ''GOP Stalls Debate on Troop 
Increase.'' I must say, in light of the remarks of the Senator from 
Maryland, obviously nobody has stalled the debate on troop increase or 
anything else to do with the conflict in Iraq. In fact, I think that is 
a positive thing because there isn't


anything more important, in my view, than debating this important issue 
and, as the Senator from Maryland said, supporting our troops.

I do have profound disagreement, though, that these nonbinding 
resolutions which have been offered do anything other than encourage 
our enemy and undermine our troop morale.

I wonder why it is that so many are insistent that we proceed forward 
on nonbinding resolutions when, in fact, we know what power the 
Congress has when it comes to war. It is not to supplant the Commander 
in Chief, it is not to have 535 micromanagers, but it is the power of 
the purse. Yet it is the very amendment that Senator Gregg, the Senator 
from New Hampshire, has offered that the majority leader has denied an 
opportunity to debate and on which to have have an up-or-down vote. 
That is what the vote yesterday was about. It is not to cut off debate; 
it is to make sure the debate continues and that the varied positions 
espoused by Members of the Senate are not only fully debated but that 
there is an opportunity to vote on those positions.

At least two Members of the majority--Senator Dodd and Senator 
Feingold--have made it clear that they believe the power of the purse 
should be exercised to cut off funding to support this new plan 
forward. While I disagree with them, I do respect the fact that they 
actually intend to vote for something that would make a difference in 
the outcome as opposed to the nonbinding resolutions which have been 
offered by Senator Levin and others.

I do not understand why it is the critics--the President's critics 
and the critics of what is happening in Iraq--why they will not take 
yes for an answer. Yes, as the Senator from Maryland said, on November 
7, obviously, Iraq was on the minds of the American people. It is one 
of the reasons why, frankly, the then majority is no longer the 
majority.

There were critics on the other side of the aisle who said the 
Secretary of Defense needed to be replaced. Now we have confirmed a new 
Secretary of Defense, Secretary Robert Gates.

There are those who said: What we are doing in Iraq is not working, 
so we need a new commander. And, indeed, we have confirmed, 
unanimously, a new commander of Coalition Forces in Iraq.

There are those who said: We need a new plan in Iraq. And lo and 
behold, the President announced a new plan after lengthy consultation.

I think there is a fair amount of revisionist history or selective 
memory going on. For example, there are some who said the President did 
not consider, in coming up with this new plan, the provisions of the 
Iraq Study Group. Of course, this is a bipartisan group that made 79 
different recommendations. But I would challenge the critics who say 
the President ignored the Iraq Study Group report to look at page 73 of 
that report, where they say, unanimously--a bipartisan group--they 
could support a temporary surge of troops to secure Baghdad if it was 
necessary.

Indeed, if you look at this new way forward, that is precisely what 
it is, a temporary surge, supporting Iraqi troops to provide an 
opportunity not only to clear but to hold Baghdad and then to build and 
begin the political reconciliation process that is necessary for 
stabilization.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle are saying we do not 
want to debate, when the truth is they are denying us a right to vote 
on some of the key resolutions that define the nature of the debate in 
this Congress.

We want a debate. We want a debate, but we want it to be a fair 
debate. And we want it to be representative. We want to expand and 
extend the debate so we can fully examine and discuss what is at stake 
in this central front in the global war on terror. We want a full and 
comprehensive debate and an opportunity to vote. Do they?

If our friends on the other side of the aisle are serious when they 
say they do not want to block funding for our troops, then why are they 
dodging an amendment offered by Senator Gregg that would allow them a 
vote on that important issue?

Now, I disagree that we should ever cut off funds to support our 
troops while they are in a time of war. But I think if you feel what is 
happening in Iraq cannot be justified, if you feel we have already lost 
and we are merely sending more troops into harm's way, with no chance 
of accomplishing the mission, then I would say the only real vote that 
matters would be one that would cut off the funds to allow that to 
happen. That would be the moral decision to make. I simply disagree 
with the judgment. I do not believe all is lost. I do believe this new 
plan, this new commander, this new Secretary of Defense have a 
reasonable chance of success.

Now, we all agree the consequences of failure in Iraq are not simply 
something we can walk away from. The Iraq Study Group said that failure 
in Iraq could result in a regional conflict, most likely ethnic 
cleansing, where the sectarian violence would spiral out of control, 
perhaps bringing in other countries to defend the various sectarian 
parties to that conflict.

We know from sad experience what happened in Afghanistan after the 
Soviet Union was defeated by the Afghan rebels, where the Taliban and 
al-Qaida set up business in Afghanistan and used that as a place to 
train and recruit and then to launch terrorist attacks against the 
United States, such as what occurred on September 11, 2001.

Where is the plan of the critics of this new way forward in Iraq? 
What is their plan to avoid a failed state in Iraq? Where is their plan 
to avoid the kind of regional conflict and the humanitarian crisis that 
will most likely occur if, in fact, we do not try to support this new 
plan forward and bring stability to Iraq long enough to where the 
Iraqis--which is their responsibility--can engage in the reconciliation 
process and the political process necessary to stabilize that country, 
which is in their best interest, which is in our best interest? Because 
we know if things spiral out of control in Iraq, if we decide to 
precipitously leave Iraq and it becomes a failed state or becomes a 
killing field for ethnic cleansing, we will most likely have to return 
at even greater loss of blood and treasure.

So I would ask the new majority, since the Senator from Maryland 
mentioned the election of November 7, what is your plan? To criticize 
may be OK if you are in the minority. But if you are the majority, 
surely you have a responsibility to offer a constructive alternative. 
It is not constructive to merely criticize the new plan that is going 
to be executed by the new commander, unanimously confirmed by this 
Congress, and a new Secretary of Defense.

I must say, with all due respect, it is not supporting our troops to 
send them into harm's way if, in fact, our colleagues believe all is 
lost and they cannot succeed. I do not believe that. But if, in fact, 
they truly do believe that, then they should stand up and be willing to 
vote on the only resolution that would have an outcome on that 
determination. That is the Gregg amendment.

It is because we have been denied an opportunity to vote on that only 
amendment that counts that this debate continues. It was not cut off 
yesterday; merely a fair process was secured for those of us who think 
that all views ought to be represented and we ought to have more than 
one vote rather than be railroaded in this process.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.