# IRAQ
## `1ed1edfb0e6842715dc45b4eee565464`
`Mr. BOND â€” 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, as we approach the sixth anniversary of 
September 11, 2001, we are reminded of the consequences of ignoring the 
threat al-Qaida and other ''mufsidoon'' terrorists pose to our Nation. 
Al-Qaida and radical extremists declared war, or ''Hirabah,'' on this 
Nation in the early 1990s, and not until 2001 did we finally take that 
threat seriously. While some in our own country refuse to believe this 
reality, that terrorists--Osama bin Laden, Ayman al Zawahiri--agree 
that Iraq is the central front in the war on terror, our entire 
intelligence community testified in open session before the Senate 
Intelligence Committee last January that to retreat from Iraq 
prematurely on a political timetable would invite disaster. They 
testified that a precipitous withdrawal of American forces would lead 
to chaos, regional sectarian conflict, Shias and Sunnis killing each 
other. It would create a safe haven from which al-Qaida could launch 
further and much more robust attacks on America, and it could lead to 
the possible deployment of troops, this time not to a fledgling 
democracy but to prevent the spread of a radical Islamic Caliphate, 
with a capital in Baghdad and borders reaching from Spain to Indonesia. 
A precipitous withdrawal would also send a message to the enemies of 
freedom all over the world that the American people lack the resolve to 
win; that while our brave military cannot be defeated, politicians in 
Washington can; that when the going gets tough, America gets going--
home.

Next week, General Petraeus will deliver a progress report on the new 
strategy in Iraq. I expect this report to show that finally we are 
seeing real progress in the security situation in several key areas. 
This issue should not be a political one, but unfortunately there are 
those who are politicizing our fight there. This battle is too 
important to be used by those who want to declare defeat in Iraq for 
their own short-term political gains in 2008, claims such as, ''the war 
is lost,'' and claims that the success of the surge ''misses the 
point'' are troubling at best and dangerous at the worst.

Sadly, there are some in this body who are vested politically in 
defeat. I find it disappointing that some in Congress would now say 
they will refuse even to believe General Petraeus, despite the fact 
Democrats and Republicans unanimously approved his appointment in 
February.

General Petraeus takes his responsibility for our troops on the front 
line seriously. He is highly respected, has an outstanding military 
career, and should be listened to. I am confident he will deliver a 
report based on facts on the ground and not political conditions at 
home.

I hope more of my colleagues will listen to our military leaders when 
they deliver Iraq's progress report. The worst case scenario would be 
for a majority in Congress to ignore our military leaders and continue 
to demand timetables, withdrawal dates, and attempts to control troop 
movements. Military decisions must be made by our military commanders 
on the ground, not micromanaged by Congress in our wonderful air-
conditioned hall, thousands of miles away.

We have seen what has happened in the past when politicians have 
tried to run a war--from Vietnam to the Iranian hostage crisis.

On the political front, I agree that Prime Minister Maliki is not 
getting the job done, at least not getting the job done on the 
timetable that we have artificially set, but that much more work needs 
to be done. However, as we have seen for months now, progress is 
occurring from the bottom up at the local level. Our military, our 
leaders, and our troops in the field tell us that they are being 
successful. They are making progress. This is no time to quit.

The Al Anbar Province, where I and several Intelligence Committee 
members visited a few months ago, has been demonstrating tremendous 
signs of progress, even back then. This was the area controlled by al-
Qaida just a year ago, where al-Qaida said they were going to establish 
the headquarters of their evil empire, the Caliphate.

In fact, today, General Jim Jones will be releasing his report that 
reached the same conclusion I did after my visit. You saw different 
headlines in the paper today about that report--not surprising. They 
wanted to focus on other sites. But today's Washington Post reported:




 U.S. and Iraqi alliances with Sunni tribal forces in Anbar 


 province have produced ''real and encouraging'' military 


 progress and intelligence cooperation, and there are 


 promising signs they can be replicated elsewhere.


It is here, where local tribal leaders and sheiks are cooperating 
with American and Iraqi Army commanders to take their neighborhoods 
back from al-Qaida. As a result, we have seen a decrease in sectarian 
violence, an increase in weapons cache discoveries, and some relative 
stability.

This is a classic example of how General Petraeus's counterinsurgency 
strategy, or COIN strategy, is working.

We should have had this policy 2 or 3 years ago. But General Petraeus 
has written a book, the Army and Marine field manual. When he talks 
about dealing with the counterinsurgency, you go in, you clear, you 
hold, you work with local forces, and you help


them rebuild. Show them that there is progress that can come when they 
cooperate with those of us who are trying to prevent violence and 
terrorism from taking over their country.

When we were there, the marines in Ramadi had just finished 
rebuilding the Blue Mosque, the sacred point for Sunnis in Al Anbar, 
and they are using that. We are working with them.

Our military is beginning to replicate these successful lessons in 
other parts of Iraq. Sure progress is slow, but progress is real. With 
a new counterinsurgency strategy in place, our military shows the 
momentum going our way, and with this momentum it is clearly the wrong 
time to cut the legs out from under them with a new strategy. We are 
witnessing the increasing likelihood that our troops can find success 
and return home victorious. Even previous critics such as the Brookings 
Institution's O'Hanlon and Pollack, writing in the New York Times, said 
this is ''a war we just might win.'' But let me be very clear about one 
thing.

Our U.S. national security interest is seeing relative peace and 
stability established and maintained in Iraq for the short and 
intermediate term because only by assuring that stability, and our 
coalition forces working with Iraqi security forces, can we ensure we 
will avoid the genocide among Shias and Sunni, the opening of Iraq to a 
safe haven for al-Qaida and its related terrorist elements, and the 
likelihood of a regionwide sectarian war, bringing in other countries 
in the region, creating havoc, chaos, threatening Israel, cutting off 
oil supplies, and having an international crisis.

Long term, we have an interest in seeing real reconciliation and 
political accommodation accomplished by the elected officials of the 
Iraqi Government. Iraqis are going to have to make those decisions for 
themselves--who does it and how they do it--but we have to realize that 
before you can have political compromise and success, you have to have 
stability.

Secondly, political reconciliation takes time. It took a long time to 
put the United States of America together. If you read, as I hope you 
have, the book about Lincoln's Presidency, ''A Team of Rivals,'' you 
see even in 1860-1864, we were still fighting those battles in a war at 
the same time, but Abraham Lincoln persevered and we came through.

So not only as a policymaker but as a father concerned about our 
future generations, I understand the tremendous sacrifice our troops 
have made in support of a policy in Iraq. Our troops on the ground have 
told me, in many different ways, they understand they are making 
progress. They understand they are making these sacrifices; they are 
willing to do this for the good of our country. One particular quote 
sticks in my mind when they were first told about the possibility that 
Congress would set arbitrary time limits for withdrawal. Their response 
was: We have made far too many contributions and too many sacrifices to 
see it all be for naught.

This coming from troops on the ground who have seen their colleagues 
shot up and sent the belongings of lost comrades back home. They made a 
contribution to the peace and security of the United States, and they 
do not want us pulling the rug out from under them.

Let's remain committed to seeing the job done to protect this country 
from the radical and extremist attacks of al-Qaida and others. Our 
Nation's security, our credibility in the world, the freedom of 
millions of Iraqis and many other people threatened by this kind of 
terrorist attempt to establish a caliphate are depending upon us.

I urge my colleagues to listen carefully and accept the 
recommendations of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker, two men of 
unquestioned integrity who will be presenting the situation on the 
ground, not as we view it on TV, not as some mischaracterize it but 
from the people who have the responsibility for our missions, our 
vitally important missions, important not only for Iraq and the Middle 
East but to our own national security.

I yield the floor.