# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `1ede428adde88277f6115c7caa1e1dc6`
`Mr. EVERETT â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. EVERETT. Madam Chairman, I thank my ranking member, and I thank 
the chairman for the work they have done on this bill. And for many 
years, the chairman of the committee and I have worked closely 
together.

But, regretfully, I rise today in opposition to the Intelligence 
Authorization bill for Fiscal Year 2008, H.R. 2082. Actions taken in 
the bill regarding human operations, the irresponsible use of our 
intelligence professionals and the short-sighted steps to critical 
space systems justify a ''no'' vote on this legislation.



The bill slashes funding to HUMINT, or Human Operations, one of our 
most important intelligence collection functions in the global war on 
terrorism. Regardless of your position on the war, we cannot cut a 
primary intelligence function that is critical to protecting our troops 
in combat.

Like many, I have visited the front line, and we owe our brave 
American military the support they need to be successful in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. I also note that the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Intelligence has stated that HUMINT is his number one priority.

Remarkably, rather than focus on national security, this bill places 
an emphasis on global warming. In the middle of a war which has our 
intelligence community overloaded with real-world intelligence 
missions, this intelligence authorization bill carves out scarce 
intelligence resources for an environmental matter that should be the 
purview of another committee.

Madam Chairman, we have already had 13 Federal agencies looking at 
the effects of climate change. The administration has requested nearly 
$7.4 billion this year for climate change-related activities. Since 
2001 the Federal Government has devoted $37 billion for climate change-
related activities. We are in the middle of a war against radical 
jihadists, and the terrorist plot of the radical Islamists at Fort Dix 
earlier this week should be a sobering reminder for all of us. It is 
wrong and misguided for Congress to overburden our highly skilled 
intelligence professionals by shouldering them with this unnecessary 
science project.

Lastly, this measure gives our strategic threat little attention. 
While engaging in the global war on terror, the strategic threat has 
grown. Having the


ability to peer into areas that would cause us harm is vital to 
advanced warning, known as ''Persistent Stare.'' We need to pay more 
attention to the architecture of ''stare'' and ''persistence''; yet 
this bill provides inadequate resources.

For example, substantial funds have been added to a space-based 
infrared program, SBIRS, that cannot be wisely used. In fact, if these 
additional funds were obligated, the program would be sent into 
procurement before it is ready, likely to cause schedule delays and 
cost overruns. This funding add was poorly conceived and would cause 
the Defense Department to literally bite off more than it can chew.

I urge a ''no'' vote on the bill.