# THE RULE OF LAW
## `1ee3d344316bf588ac10b4b076ba1cd2`
`Mr. CARTER â€” 15 March 2010`

---


Mr. CARTER. Madam Speaker, for the past, about--I don't know--12 to 
18 months, I've been coming on the floor of the House and talking about 
various aspects of the rule of law. The rule of law is the underpinning 
upon which our society is built. We've talked about this over and over. 
We've talked about it in terms of ethical issues that pertain to people 
in this House. We've talked about it in terms of criminal actions. 
We've talked about it in terms of what's going on with our military.

You heard some speakers here tonight raise some issues concerning how 
we fight wars, rules of engagement. All of these are rules we set for 
ourselves in some form or fashion.

Well, I've also been on this floor talking about the fact that 
political correctness, in my humble opinion, is becoming so rampant in 
our society that we forget the ''why'' of what we are doing because 
we're so afraid of offending someone.

I am from central Texas. My district includes the largest military 
facility, as far as soldiers are concerned, on the face of the globe, 
Fort Hood, Texas. I think everybody, those of us from central Texas, we 
know Fort Hood, and when we hear Fort Hood we have a lot of great 
thoughts about the great soldiers out there, we have great thoughts 
about the great commanders that serve at Fort Hood, about the awesome 
accomplishments of the soldiers that have passed through Fort Hood for 
generations, fighting our Nation's battles on every shore you can 
imagine and all over this country, dating back to the Civil War.

Fort Hood doesn't date back to the Civil War, but Fort Hood is named 
after a Civil War soldier. We are proud of Fort Hood.

But, unfortunately, because of something that happened this year, 
Fort Hood will also be identified always in the minds of American 
citizens as a place where a terrorist stabbed people in the back by 
walking down the line of soldiers and shooting soldiers just standing 
in line, either checking in from going to war or checking out, getting 
ready to go to war. They were not armed. They were not doing anything 
more than what's required of them by the Army to process into or out of 
the facility.

And yet, a man who's now--we call him the accused, but over 200 
people witnessed Mr. Hasan go on a shooting rampage, killing soldiers 
who were doing nothing more than standing in line, or processing 
another soldier. These were not people that were at war or were armed 
to defend themselves. Had they been armed to defend themselves, Mr. 
Hasan wouldn't have gotten over more than maybe one shot before he 
would have died, because these were professional soldiers who knew 
exactly how to take care of business.

But they were not armed. And, in fact, they were in a safe place. 
That's the sad thing. They were in a safe place, a place where they 
should have been safe or where they thought they were safe, and where 
maybe never again they will think that they are safe because of what 
happened that day.



Now, this was not some terrorist that sneaked into our country. This 
was a man that had joined the United States Army and, through the 
goodness of the American citizen and the American taxpayer, received a 
medical degree with a psychiatric specialty; and all of this was paid 
for by the United States Army. He did his medical school, his 
residency, his post-residency training and his residency for psychiatry 
all


while working for the U.S. Army and all paid for by the United States 
Government. He was an American citizen.

And yet homemade jihadism, we're now calling it, and some of that has 
been in the news this week, caused this man to go out and murder 13 
people and one unborn child and wound or injure 43 additional people. 
There's one soldier right now--I won't mention his name but if he's 
watching he'll know who I'm talking about--he's sitting in a hospital 
in South Austin, he was shot multiple times, he's had a plate put in 
his head and it was rejected and he's going to have another plate put 
in his head. When I talked to his father, his father said: Two 
deployments. We prayed and worried our son all the way through two 
deployments. He came out with not a scratch. He's at home where he 
should be safe and this animal killed him; almost killed him. He's 
surviving through his heart being big and being tough and having a 
family and an Army that supports him.

This young man had been so successful in his last deployment that 
they were sending him to Officer Candidate School. He was not even 
stationed at Fort Hood. He was just transitioning through there to 
Officer Candidate School when he was shot. He still hopes to be an 
officer in the United States Army, and we are very hopeful that he will 
be, but he's a seriously wounded soldier. But he's going to make it and 
hopefully he'll get back in the Army that he loves.

And this is this domestic terrorist who decided he would take it upon 
himself to start a fight, right there at Fort Hood. Not a real fight, a 
one-sided fight, where he was the only guy with a gun. He had two of 
them. And he got to selectively shoot who he wanted to shoot, and he 
shot men and women in uniform. I don't know about you, but I think this 
was just another theater of war, a war that we've been fighting in Iraq 
and a war that we've been fighting in Afghanistan, against these 
terrorists who indiscriminately think that they have the right to kill 
in the name of whatever cause they call it. Some would say they are 
religious fanatics. Others would say they are jihadists and they have 
some kind of fanatical following. Whatever it may be. This is who we've 
been at war with now for 10 or 12 years.

And as we were told when it all started, it's going to be a long 
fight, maybe the longest in the history of the Republic. And it's 
approaching that now. I think these kids, these young men and women, 
were killed on the battlefield of Fort Hood, and that's why I've 
introduced a piece of legislation to have them get the kind of benefits 
of people who get killed in combat or wounded in combat get, and that 
is that if there are medals to be awarded, they should get a medal; if 
they are wounded, they should get a Purple Heart.

I've already heard a story of a sergeant who was there with several 
of his troops. The sergeant was shot four times and as the man lowered 
the pistol to fire the fifth time, one of his enlisted men, thinking he 
couldn't take anymore, jumped in between the shooter and the sergeant 
to protect his sergeant and took the three other rounds that were 
fired. Had that taken place on the battlefield, I'm sure that would be 
something that would be heroism in the line of fire, and I think that 
young man should be awarded something like the Bronze Star, the Silver 
Star, something like that. I don't know. I'm not saying what medal, but 
he ought to get a medal for it. And if there are families from this 
combat experience who either lost a loved one or were injured from this 
battle at Fort Hood, I think they ought to get the extended combat 
benefits that we give to our soldiers when we send them into harm's way 
on a battlefield. And I think the American people, if they heard about 
that, would think, sure they ought to get that; that this was just 
another battle.

Because, remember, the testimony will be when this trial comes out, 
because I've talked to a lot of these soldiers that were there, that he 
was shooting soldiers. If he hit any civilians, it's just because he 
missed. But he was walking down the line shooting soldiers. He was 
declaring war on the American soldier.

I wanted to talk tonight about Fort Hood and what's going on there, 
the fact that we've got a report out that doesn't even mention radical 
jihadists or mention even the name of the shooter, and I'm afraid it 
was done because somebody was afraid they were going to step on 
somebody's toes. I've had some tell me they did it because they wanted 
to protect the prosecution of this man. Being a judge who tried cases 
in his courtroom for 20 years, including, I believe, five or six 
capital murder cases, I can assure you that if you can't prove a case 
with 200 eyewitnesses, you've got a serious problem with your lawyers. 
So I don't hesitate to say what I think about this thing because I 
think it was wrong for them not to report accurately who the person was 
and what he did.

I am joined by a good friend of mine who is a former Federal 
prosecutor, Mike McCaul. He's my friend, my colleague from Texas, my 
neighbor, right down the road. I'm glad he's come to join us, and I 
will yield to my friend from Texas whatever time he wishes to consume.