# ENERGY
## `1fac52e8b9f61b8430391495ec8f6877`
`Mr. KYL â€” 17 July 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, let me say on the point my friend from 
Illinois made, while there may well be room for dealing with 
speculation as part of the overall approach to our energy crisis today, 
it is clear that speculation cannot be the only or even a major piece 
of it. Without new production, we are destined to continue to rely on 
foreign sources for our oil and very high oil prices.

We will be interested in getting into the debates about the relative 
merits of different approaches to speculation. But let me talk about a 
little different angle to this than has been discussed so far, and that 
is not only the fact that people, when they go to the gas pump, find 
themselves paying very high prices for oil, which hurts their family 
budgets and, in many cases, businesses that have to rely on fuel, but 
also that it is a national security problem for the United States 
because of our undue reliance on these other countries.

The point I want to make today is this: A lot of these countries have 
the ability to actually increase the price because of the instability 
they can create around the world. I think of the Iranians, for example. 
Everyone knows that we get a great deal of our oil from the Persian 
Gulf region, that the Strait of Hormuz is the very narrow area


through which about 40 percent of all the oil has to go. Forty percent 
of the world's oil tankers have to exit the Strait of Hormuz as they 
are picking up their oil from the Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Iran, 
and so forth. That creates an opportunity for mischief, and the 
Iranians have been very good at exploiting that. Whenever they rattle 
their saber, whenever they engage in a naval exercise in that area, or 
when, recently, they shoot off missiles to show everybody they can be 
tough guys and throw their weight around in the world, that gives the 
markets a lot of jitters, and we saw what happened: The price of oil 
shoots up.

Ironically, countries that are no friends of the United States would 
create great mischief if they could have an additional reason for this 
belligerent behavior. It drives up the cost of oil, which is where they 
make all their money. So they literally have the ability to help 
dictate the price of the commodity that sustains their economy.

Iran is not the only country. Russia actually produces more than 
Saudi Arabia. The United States is third. But Russia, as the world's 
largest oil producer--about 9.84 million barrels per day--has produced 
about a fourth of the non-OPEC crude oil since 2007. At today's prices, 
that would be about $1.4 billion per day--think about that--and over 
$500 billion for the year; almost $1.5 billion a day into Russia's 
Treasury.

As a result, Russia has been able to do some things that are not in 
the interests of the United States. They are rearming their military 
with oil dollars. That is how they are able to afford all of the new 
things they are doing in terms of their nuclear program, their missile 
program, and all of the other things they are doing that are 
antithetical to United States national security interests.

Moreover, they have shown no reluctance to use their oil and natural 
gas production as a weapon as well. When countries next to them or even 
far away that rely on Russian natural gas or oil do something the 
Russians do not like, they simply cut off the supply. And they have 
done this numerous times. It has much of Europe, which relies on 
Russian natural gas, very jittery because if you make the Russian bear 
mad, he cuts off your source of natural gas and, in some cases, oil. 
This creates a very unstable and very difficult situation for these 
countries, and also has the effect of driving up the price of oil and 
natural gas.


Because both of these products are fungible; that is to say, they can 
be produced all around the world and everybody around the world buys 
them, there is a world market for them. So even though the jitters are 
in the Persian Gulf or in Europe, for example, the price is reflected 
all around the world, and the United States ends up having to pay more 
at the gas pump because these countries can affect the price of the 
commodity they rely on to fund their government.

Recently, it happened to be that Russia shut off oil to the Czech 
Republic. They have shut off oil or natural gas to other countries in 
Eastern Europe, especially when they did not agree with the Russian 
position on something. They have shut off natural gas supplies during 
the dead of winter to countries in Eastern Europe that wanted to join 
NATO. Russia says: We don't like that so we will shut you off.

The Czech Republic decided it wanted to help the United States and 
itself to be protected against missiles. So they are helping to 
establish a missile defense base in the Czech Republic. Russia doesn't 
like it, so half of what is sent from Russia to the Czech Republic is 
cut off.

This is the problem of relying on other countries, not to mention a 
country such as Venezuela. The United States gets a good deal of its 
oil from Venezuela. We all know the head of Venezuela, Hugo Chavez, has 
done everything he can to undermine United States influence in Central 
and South America and does everything he can to get in the face of the 
United States. If he wants to affect the price of oil, all he has to do 
is rattle his saber as well.

In each of these cases, we have a situation where the price of the 
product and the availability of the product is dependent upon positions 
over which we not only have no control but countries that have 
interests very inimical to ours, and the end result is it costs more 
for people in the United States for a very necessary product, namely, 
the oil and natural gas product we use to fuel our economy. This is one 
of the reasons why I say it is a national security issue as well as 
affecting the price at the pump.

It is one of the reasons why the United States has to begin to rely 
less on the oil produced in foreign countries and more on oil we can 
produce right here in the United States. It is not well known, but the 
United States is the third largest producer of oil in the world, after 
Russia and Saudi Arabia. We have huge reserves here of which we are not 
taking advantage. This is one of the reasons why Republicans are 
insisting that any legislation that comes to the floor dealing with 
this energy crisis include taking advantage of the resources we have. 
Let's free up these resources. We have them. They can be obtained in a 
very environmentally sensitive way, and they can help not only to 
reduce the cost of gas in the United States or natural gas but also to 
reduce the ability of other countries around the world to influence 
behavior in a bad way, such as shutting off the oil or natural gas for 
customers of theirs or driving up the cost of oil for everybody else.

I got to thinking about this in terms of the taming of the West. One 
of the reasons the United States became such a great country so rapidly 
was that we bought land with the Louisiana Purchase. We explored the 
West. We took advantage of natural resources that were in this country, 
and we quickly became a very strong power economically. We had natural 
gas, we had oil, we had minerals--copper and gold and all of the rest. 
We took advantage of the resources that we had to become a wealthy and 
powerful country.

One hundred years ago, we didn't mine in a very environmentally safe 
way, but no one can deny that the way we produce our wealth today is 
with great environmental sensitivity. Everyone agrees with that. It is 
not any longer hurting the environment. All of this production can be 
done, for example, offshore or in the deep waters of the gulf in a very 
environmentally sensitive way. We are hoping the same thing can be done 
with oil shale.

So when our friends say we need to be able to deal with the commodity 
markets here and that is going to make a big difference, the answer is, 
there is a lot of dispute as to whether it will make any difference at 
all. But we do know something that will make a difference but it will 
not make a difference just in the long run, it will make an immediate 
difference. The decision to explore and produce right here in the 
United States where we know we have the resources, where we are not 
dependent on other people, where they cannot drive up the price because 
they can rattle their sabers in the Strait of Hormuz or cutting off oil 
and natural gas supplies as Russia has done, we can stop all of that by 
simply producing more in the United States where we know we have it and 
we can produce it safely and in an environmentally sound way.

It is like the settlement of the West, as I said, in taking advantage 
of our natural resources. We have always been a can-do nation. We have 
always said we can take care of ourselves. We don't want to be 
dependent on others. What we have learned today is that for depending 
on others, we pay a very high price, and I don't mean just a high price 
at the gas pump but a high price in terms of our national security as 
well. That is the reason we are insisting on removing some of these 
moratoria, strictly illegal moratoria. It is a moratorium from being 
able to explore for energy off our coasts or in the deep waters in the 
gulf or on Federal lands.

There is a big up side to the Federal Government in terms of revenue 
royalties, as well as to States as a result of this action. So instead 
of paying money to foreign countries, we can be gaining some of that 
wealth right here in the United States.

Bear in mind that other countries are the recipients of the payments 
for oil around the world, not oil companies as is the case primarily in 
the West. We send more than $1 billion a day, not to some oil company 
abroad but to foreign governments. They control the oil in Russia, in 
Iran, in Iraq, and so on. Let's get off of sending our money to foreign 
governments that are working against our interests and that can affect 
the price of the commodity simply


by their bad actions and rely more on the resources we have in the 
United States, that we know we can extract in an environmentally 
sensitive way, that can reduce the price immediately. That is the last 
point I wanted to make.

Martin Feldstein had an interesting piece in the Wall Street Journal 
about 2 weeks ago in which he made the point that there will be an 
immediate downward effect on oil prices if we simply announce that we 
are going to go after these resources in the United States. As a 
result, I urge my colleagues, when the opportunity arises and we debate 
this issue over the next week or so, that we support increased 
production in the United States for the benefit of American citizens.