# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `202186acdec0d9ce95fc2411ea43a2c9`
`Mr. COSTA â€” 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman from Arkansas 
(Mr. Ross), my good friend, who every day is working to represent the 
constituents of his State.

I share, too, the concerns with the lack of accountability that has 
taken place over the last 4 years as we have put America's finest men 
and women in uniform in harm's way, fighting this war on terrorism, but 
specifically in Iraq and Afghanistan, and only to find that too often 
we have not done the necessary planning, we have not put the necessary 
resources in place nor have we taken the time to ensure that their work 
is focused on in a way that brings results, the kind of results that 
all Americans as taxpayers want to see when we invest in our Nation's 
interests.

The Iraq Accountability Act is an important step to try to reinstate 
credibility through this war effort, and therefore, we are urging our 
colleagues throughout the House to embrace this effort. This is not a 
partisan issue. This is all about making sure that when we invest $25 
billion in reconstruction, when we need that kind of investment here at 
home, that it, in fact, is not taken in by sole source contracting 
single bids; that, in fact, that the work actually takes place at a 
level of quality so that the Iraqi government or the citizens can, in 
fact, benefit from that investment of infrastructure.



We just saw recently about the construction of a police station that 
was so shoddily built with U.S. taxpayers dollars that, in fact, it has 
been deemed unusable.

So as fellow Blue Dog members, we really urge in a bipartisan basis 
for us as a House to come together. We are the people's House, after 
all, and it is important that we put partisan politics at the water's 
edge. We are in a real mess in Iraq. There is no doubt about that. I 
have every hope, as do most Americans, that, in fact, we do the right 
thing in ensuring that this effort takes place in a way that brings our 
American troops home as safely and as quickly as possible.

However, if this surge is not successful, as I asked Secretary of 
State Condoleezza Rice in the Foreign Affairs Committee just 2 weeks 
ago, that I think it is absolutely critical that we understand what our 
backup plan is. I think the American public is getting tired of us 
pursuing these efforts without the sort of time invested effort that is 
going to ensure that if this effort is not successful, we have a backup 
and that we are not simply winging it, because I think too often that 
has been the history of the recent past in this engagement.

Mr. Speaker, and my colleague, Congressman Mike Ross, I would like to 
shift this effort of accountability and transparency back to our 
Nation's shores. I was very moved by the comments Congressman Mike Ross 
made when he talked about the devastating impact of those tornados in 
his district back in Arkansas. I saw the devastation on television 
shortly after it occurred.

I e-mailed my friend, Congressman Mike Ross, and asked him how it was 
there. He talked about the horrific


challenges his constituents were facing, and I felt for him. I felt for 
him because whether we like it or not, natural disasters occur 
throughout the country, whether it is in Florida, whether it is Katrina 
in Louisiana and Mississippi. I know, because just in January we had a 
similar natural disaster in California, called the freeze.

This devastating freeze has now impacted the State of California over 
$1.3 billion. Now, when you have a freeze that impacts communities in 
many counties such as we had in California in January, it doesn't take 
on the same sort of graphic visuals that a tornado or a hurricane does, 
but it is the worst freeze we have had in over 10 years. Governor 
Schwarzenegger immediately declared the State a disaster, an area 
designated as 31 counties eligible for State aid, and the State has 
been putting money in there.

We have signed a bipartisan letter to the President asking for 
Federal support. The estimate is that the freeze has affected not only 
$1.3 billion in losses, and those numbers are adding up, but over 
12,000 farm workers, as well as farmers, have been impacted. The 
livelihood of these farmers, these farm workers and the communities 
they live in have threatened the economies of these towns where we have 
had 50 percent, 70 percent unemployment just in the last 4 to 6 weeks.

I was talking to a good friend of mine, Sarah Reyes, who heads up the 
community foodbank back in Fresno County. She told me that in the last 
6 weeks they have fed over 91,000 families, 91,000 families that don't 
have jobs, that are out of work. But still, even though we have sent 
this letter, the Governor made the declaration, 31 counties have been 
impacted, the administration has yet to declare the freeze a Federal 
disaster.

So you ask why, why is our Governor, Governor Schwarzenegger's 
request being ignored? Why is the letter that has been signed by both 
Democrats and Republicans among the California congressional delegation 
being disregarded? Why is the administration acting so casually about a 
situation that puts families out of work and family businesses at risk?

Mr. President, the freeze may not make the sort of pictures that we 
have seen in Florida or in Arkansas or in Louisiana or in Mississippi; 
but I can tell you, if you come to those communities and visit and meet 
with those farm workers who are out of work, you talk to those farmers 
and their families who have invested their entire lives in their family 
farm, you will see just as dramatic an impact as any devastation of any 
other natural disaster. So I think it is time for the administration to 
focus on the accountability in its efforts in California for those 
families that have been so impacted by this devastating freeze. 
Accountability is what people expect their government to do. They 
expect their government to solve problems.

When the President spoke here in the State of the Union in January 
and said that folks are less concerned about the partisan squabbling 
that takes place and they are more concerned about doing the people's 
business, I agree with the President. In fact, this is part of the 
people's business, being accountable, being transparent, and making 
sure that after action that has already taken place, clearly 6 weeks, 
now going on to 7 weeks, after the initial disaster, that yet we have 
no response from Washington.

Ladies and gentlemen, folks in California and those 31 counties 
expect better. My constituents expect better, and I am hopeful that 
soon the President and the administration will step up to the plate and 
take FEMA's recommendation and that the Office of Management and Budget 
will suggest to the President that, in fact, California is deserving of 
the same sort of support and response and accountability that all of 
our citizens expect.

I thank the gentleman from Arkansas, my dear friend and colleague, 
Mr. Mike Ross.