# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2068d747d3a568c5b0fd5f127ab7a963`
`Ms. CASTOR â€” 13 February 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished Rules Chair.

Mr. Speaker, it is time to bring this debate to the floor of the 
Congress. I oppose escalation of the war in Iraq that is being pushed 
by President Bush and Vice President Cheney. Their intention to send 
more young American men and women into what is largely a sectarian 
civil war is more of the same ''stay the course'' mentality.

Mr. Speaker, as a member of the Armed Services Committee, I am 
particularly concerned that the reckless Bush escalation will undermine 
our country's readiness and ability to address other global threats to 
our national security. Indeed, in recent testimony, the Marine 
Commandant and the Army Chief of Staff testified that America will run 
a strategic risk by implementing the escalation and staying on the same 
course in Iraq. The generals confirmed that if our personnel and 
equipment are tied up in Iraq, then our ability to handle future 
threats and contingencies is reduced.

For example, in my State of Florida, the National Guard does not have 
all of the equipment it needs to train and deploy soldiers. They are 
only 28 percent equipped.

President Bush in essence confirmed that the escalation will harm our 
Nation's readiness when he sent over his proposed 2008 budget last 
week. He requested an additional $235 billion for this war. That is on 
top of already $350 billion of taxpayer money. In effect, Bush's war in 
Iraq is swallowing the defense budget and our country's ability to 
prepare for any other threat to our national security.

The Bush plan also sacrifices health care for children and our 
seniors and investments in our own towns and neighborhoods, while 
continuing this war without end.

We will debate budgets and appropriations in the coming months, but 
after 4 years of war, over 3,100 deaths of Americans, $350 billion, and 
the Bush-Cheney failure to aggressively pursue a political solution, it 
is important that we have this debate in the House of Representatives 
this week. It is important for Members to go on record, and it is 
important to demand a new direction on behalf of the American people.