# None
## `20b0369bcde359f8fdcb3c3511f96109`
`Mr. WAMP â€” 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. WAMP. That reminds me, today, yet another terrorist plot coming 
out of Germany, preparing to attack our Air Force base in Germany and 
soft targets of just public places in Germany where Americans are known 
to hang out was foiled, thankfully. The German authorities were on top 
of it.

That is a major, major terrorist attack again. We see this over and 
over again, thankfully, you know. God has spared us, our intelligence 
is working, we are listening. Because of FISA, we are able to listen to 
foreign terrorists talk to each other. We've taken the precautions.

Then I have this theory that they don't want to strike us right now 
because they don't want our country to pull back together again and be 
resolute against this threat, so that those things, combined, have kept 
our country secure and safe at home while we are fighting these 
insurgents and these terrorists in the Middle East.

We're going to be fighting them somewhere. If it's not in Iraq, it's 
going to be Somalia, Northern Africa. I can go through a list of the 
troubling places in the world where we're going to face these kinds of 
problems and activities, and there are 20 countries that are at risk 
around the world for big-time terrorist actions like the Taliban came 
out of Afghanistan, and we can either basically stand against this 
threat today or face it globally and more at home tomorrow. That's not 
a threat. It's reality. In Germany today it was proven again they are 
trying to hit our targets wherever they are.