# None
## `20c15e280d62e9331af3332053c2c4c8`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia â€” 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I want to thank you for the 
opportunity, and I am pleased to have yielded to my good friend earlier 
and think that she brings into perspective some of the differences that 
we have in this Chamber that I would like to chat about for a little 
bit this afternoon.

It is a great privilege to come to the floor of the House and to 
present another edition of the Official Truth Squad. One of the goals 
that we have on our side of the aisle is to bring some light, bring 
some truth to the discussions that we have here on the floor of the 
House, so important if we are going to be making decisions, when we 
make decisions, on behalf of the American people.

I represent the Sixth District of Georgia, which is a wonderful 
district, all northern portion of suburban Atlanta. And from the very 
youngest to the very oldest, they give me great enthusiasm, and I am 
heartened by the opportunity to represent that district. It is one of 
the districts that has one of the greatest amounts of interest in and 
numbers of individuals who desire appointment to our Nation's military 
academies.

One of the privileges of being a Member of Congress is the 
opportunity to nominate individuals who avail themselves of the 
opportunity and have certain accomplishments at their young age to be 
able to be considered for appointments to military academies. Most of 
us get somewhere between four and eight individuals appointed to 
military academies each year; I was privileged last year to get over 25 
people from my district appointed to the United States military 
academies.

When I was given the opportunity to call those folks who had been 
appointed, I asked my staff to put together the list, and I thought I 
would kind of be able to knock that out in about 1 to 1/1/2/ hours, 
calling those 25 or so folks who had reached an incredible 
accomplishment in their life. And I started down that list, and the 
first call was an extremely emotional call, very moving, because this 
individual had worked his entire life to be able to have the 
opportunity to serve his Nation.

And so by the end of that phone call, which lasted about 10 minutes, 
he was crying and I was crying; and we were all celebrating his 
wonderful accomplishment. And I moved on to the next call, and it was 
basically a repeat of that first one, and I realized that it was going 
to take a long time to be able to make those wonderfully exciting and 
accomplishment calls. And I recognized that there are young men and 
women across this Nation who recognize and appreciate the value of 
service and the importance of making certain that there are members all 
across our society who stand up to serve, who stand up and appreciate 
the beauty and the wonder and the awe that is the United States of 
America. And they are proud to serve; they are proud to be able to 
attend one of our military academies and make that kind of commitment.

At another end of the spectrum, I have also some advisory councils in 
my district, different members of our community who get together and 
assist me in making sure that I am formulating the kinds of proposals 
and policies that are consistent with that wonderful Sixth District of 
Georgia; and recently we met.

One of the groups I have is a military and veterans group that gets 
together and provides information to make certain that we are 
addressing the kinds of issues that are of concern to military and 
veterans, members in the Sixth District and across the Nation. These 
are true heroes. They are folks kind of at the other end of the 
spectrum from those young men and women who have volunteered to attend 
military academies. But these are men and women who have served and who 
recognize the commitment that it takes and recognize the importance of 
this Congress, of this Nation stating clearly, through both word and 
deed, that they respect and appreciate the kind of service of our 
military men and women.

And those folks told me recently, they said, Congressman Price, we 
are a little perplexed, we are a little concerned by what we hear 
coming out of Washington. Again, these are heroes of a past time for 
our United States, continued heroes, but they are concerned because 
they believe that the information that is being put forward and the 
policies that are being promoted by the new majority party here in 
Washington as it relates to our Nation's security are troubling to them 
and threaten truly our very existence as a Nation.

I would suggest, Madam Speaker, that the most recent proposal as it 
relates to our war on terror as a Nation, is a proposal that has been 
coined and termed ''slow bleed,'' slow bleed in terms of our efforts in 
Iraq. It kind of gives you just chills thinking about that term, 
doesn't it, Madam Speaker? The slow bleed policy that has been put 
forward by Members on the other side of the aisle, they are very 
troubled by this at home; and I am very troubled by it. And that is 
what the Official Truth Squad, part of our purpose is trying to bring 
light and truth to the debate as it goes on here in Washington.



We have some favorite sayings on the Official Truth Squad. This is 
one of them. It comes from Senator Patrick Moynihan, who was the United 
States Senator from the State of New York. He said, ''Everyone is 
entitled to their own opinion, but not their own facts.'' And, Madam 
Speaker, we would go a long way here in Washington if we heeded this 
statement and belief by Senator Moynihan: everyone is entitled to their 
own opinion, but not their own facts. We hear a lot of opinions here, 
and it would be wonderful if the majority of them were more supported 
by facts.

One of the facts, though, is that the majority party here has the 
power of the purse; and if they so desire to bleed our troops dry in 
their mission, which is the mission of all Americans, which is to 
preserve and protect and defend our Nation; if they desire to slow 
bleed our troops, then they have the power to do that. They have the 
power to do that. And that is why it is called the slow bleed policy, 
because it would bleed dry our troops in terms of the ability for them 
to defend our Nation.

I quote, Madam Speaker, from Representative John Murtha on February 
15 of this year when he was asked about this strategy. And he said: 
''They won't be able to continue,'' they, referring to the United 
States troops, our military. He said, Madam Speaker: ''They won't be 
able to continue. They won't be able to do the deployment. They won't 
have the equipment.''

What a sad commentary it is, Madam Speaker, when you have the 
chairman of the Appropriations Committee that has jurisdiction over our 
military talking about a mission that our military is on to defend 
freedom and to defend you and to defend me, and say proudly, proudly, 
''They won't be able to continue. They won't be able to do the 
deployment. They won't have the equipment.'' Madam Speaker, that is a 
sad commentary on the level of discourse and the level of involvement 
and the level of support that this new majority party has for our 
military.

And then when asked just 2 weeks later, this same individual, same 
Member of Congress, was asked by a member of the press, Why not cut off 
the funding for the war? And at this point he said, ''Well, you can't. 
You can't go forth. The public doesn't want that. They don't want that 
to happen.'' They don't want that to happen. But then the Speaker of 
the House reaffirmed her support for Mr. Murtha's policies.


The greatest amount of truth and light on this issue comes from an 
individual who stands tall and proud when he talks about the truth and 
talks about defending our Nation, Senator Joe Lieberman from 
Connecticut. When the Speaker said, ''Democrats have proposed a 
different course of action; over and over again we have suggested a 
different plan,'' then Senator Lieberman said, ''Any alternatives that 
I have heard ultimately don't work. They are all about failing, they 
are all about withdrawing. And I think allowing Iraq to collapse would 
be a disaster for the Iraqis, for the Middle East, and for us.'' That 
is a little truth, Madam Speaker, on an issue that is so incredibly 
important to us as a Nation and to us as it relates to the stability in 
the Middle East, and, yes, to the world, to world stability and world 
peace.

I am so proud to be joined today by many of my colleagues to talk 
about the policies of the other side, to talk about the war on terror, 
to talk about defending our Nation and freedom and liberty. And the 
first individual to join us here on the Official Truth Squad is my good 
friend John Kline from Minnesota who knows of what he speaks. Colonel 
Kline, we are so proud to have you join us today, and I look forward to 
your comments.