# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `21929f187302b2714f6e3dada466bcdf`
`Mr. BUYER â€” 9 July 2009`

---


Mr. BUYER. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I would say the gentlelady's comments still don't address the reason 
I brought this amendment. I will use two words that you just used to 
the gentlelady: ''jeopardy'' and ''devastate.'' That is exactly what 
Congress is doing to America's economy if we do not get our fiscal 
house in order.

This isn't my quote; this is OMB's. In May, OMB projected that if we 
continue this type of spending, the Federal debt will grow to $23.3 
trillion in 2019. That is within 10 years, $23 trillion. I think the 
American people are getting numb to these numbers. Now to get $1 
billion, to get $1 billion, if I take, excluding corporate income tax 
receipts, every individual working in my congressional district, if I 
take their Federal income tax revenue, I can get $1 billion. That is 
just $1 billion. So I think about all the hard work and labor of people 
in my congressional district in Indiana, that is $1 billion. So you 
throw numbers around here as though it is just nothing, it is just 
money. It is more than money. It represents the hard labor of people. 
They give it to us, and they make sure that we spend it in a fiscally 
responsible manner. At a time when America's economy is hurting, you 
plead to me in response, Mr. Chairman, the plea here is that all 
Members should weep and cry about the challenges that are all around 
the world. Well, what about the challenges in America? That is what I'm 
talking about. We are engaged here in a two-front war, actually, a 
multi-front war, but in two fronts right now in Afghanistan and Iraq.

I appreciate the leadership of our ranking member and what he is 
doing. But don't stand here on the floor and talk about we need more 
money for ''family planning,'' which is a code word for us to pay for 
abortions overseas. No, this is a moment in time. And I am going to ask 
for a recorded vote on something like this because I want a signal to 
be sent to the American people to take a look at this vote. That is 
what I will say to America, Mr. Chairman: watch this vote.

Do we have what it takes to cut $2.2 billion or not? I'm even saying, 
guess what? I will take your 33 percent increase that you had over the 
baseline. I will just take us back to the 33 percent increase. And, 
America, watch what this Congress will do. Will they be fiscally 
responsible with your dollar? Or will they continue the reckless 
policies that have been going on in this Congress?

I urge everyone to support this amendment, and I yield back.