# None
## `21b2787ff6ba8cc61cb31c6371d006e0`
`Mr. ACKERMAN â€” 29 July 2010`

---


Mr. ACKERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in the strongest possible 
support of the 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, H.R. 847.

Mr. Speaker, every September, we come to the floor of the House of 
Representatives to pay homage to the lives lost on the 11th of 
September in 2001, to recognize that each anniversary is a time of 
solemn commemoration, to extend condolences to the friends, families 
and loved ones of the innocent victims of the terrorists. Every 
September, we come here and reflect about that day in 2001 and to say 
none of us will ever forget what happened. And Mr. Speaker, those words 
are all well and good, those words are all spoken with sincerity and 
those words are all important. However, today this House has a chance 
to do something more, something different than just, ''expressing the 
sense of the House,'' something tangible, something that will help the 
living victims of 9/11.

Mr. Speaker, when the towers were falling, there were men and women 
who rushed to those towers to help when all human instinct would be to 
run away. Later, workers volunteered and were hired to work on the 
''pile'' at Ground Zero at the World Trade Center. First responders, 
workers, visitors and residents at Ground Zero were exposed to a 
mixture of asbestos, dioxin, jet fuel and other toxins when they were 
told by the federal government that it was safe. Unfortunately, the 
previous Administration declared the site ''safe,'' puttered around 
with piecemeal and short-term efforts, and either by incompetence or 
design, utterly failed to address the now-acknowledged and long-term 
effects of exposure to the ''pile'' at Ground Zero. Nine years of 
waiting for a comprehensive plan of action is long enough; Congress 
must act now to provide for the lasting care of the people who rushed 
to Ground Zero to help others, as well as the thousands who worked on 
the ''pile'' in the aftermath to rebuild the site, and have gotten sick 
from it. We owe the heroes of 9/11 the medical care and compensation 
they deserve. H.R. 847, the 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, would 
finally establish a permanent federal program to monitor and treat the 
first responders, workers, and residents who were exposed to the 
harmful contaminants caused by the terrorist attacks of 9/11.

Mr. Speaker, sadly, there are opponents to this bill. There are 
opponents to this bill that object to the cost. They say we can't 
afford it, that we can't afford to add another program with mandatory 
spending, that these 9/11 victims should come back to Congress every 
fiscal year for funding. Well, this bill is paid for with an offset. 
Then there are other opponents who object to the offset used to pay for 
the bill--an offset which has passed this House three separate times. 
Apparently, those opponents believe that foreign corporations making 
profits in the United States should be able to evade taxes. Then there 
are yet even other opponents to this bill who believe this isn't a 
national issue, that it's a local, New York City issue. To those 
opponents: 9/11 wasn't an attack on New York City; it was an attack 
upon the entire United States. The brave men and women in uniform who 
risk their lives every day in Afghanistan and elsewhere aren't 
defending just New York City, they're defending America.

Personally, I find it outrageous that we have to even offset the 
costs of this bill at all. For my entire time here in Congress, I have 
strongly supported emergency spending for all Americans who are victims 
of natural and man-made disasters. When there was emergency spending 
needed for the victims of floods and tornadoes in the Midwest, or 
hurricanes on the Gulf Cost, or forest fires out West, I supported that 
spending. In the future, it is likely we will consider emergency 
spending for some new disaster or attack, whether


it will be helping our citizens affected by the oil spill or something 
else. I strongly believe the victims of 9/11 are owed the same 
consideration by the Members of this House.

Responders came to Ground Zero in the thousands from all around the 
country, from almost every Congressional District. Over 13,000 
responders to Ground Zero are sick now and already are receiving 
medical treatment. Another 53,000 responders are currently being 
medically monitored and 71,000 individuals are enrolled in the World 
Trade Center Registry, meaning there were exposed to toxins at some 
point. In the coming years, these numbers will only increase as 
symptoms and conditions related to exposure to Ground Zero begin to 
manifest themselves in the victims. This measure would monitor and 
provide treatment to responders to Ground Zero and build on the 
existing monitoring and treatment programs. There's also an economic 
component to this bill. Victims would be able to be compensated for 
their economic losses and contractors would receive liability 
protection. We must pass this bill not only because it's the right 
thing to do for those people who are sick, but for the next generation 
of responders who will have to think twice about volunteering and 
working at a the site of a terrorist attack.

So, Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support the 9/11 Health 
and Compensation Act so that all the victims of 9/11 will receive the 
medical care and help they need and deserve.