# None
## `21d1a48e0ec971997bce325a57b3f30a`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Good morning. Not long ago, a woman who lives in 
Pawtucket, RI, wrote me:




 I care about the human spirit, which I think is deeply 


 wounded by our occupation in Iraq. I have three friends 


 serving this country because they believe it is their duty. I 


 believe it is your duty to bring them home. I beg you for an 


 end to this war.


She is not just a lone voice from one State. All over this country, 
Americans call for an end to this war. At the grocery store, around the 
kitchen table, and in places of worship, Americans are sharing their 
frustration and outrage at a President who refuses to listen, refuses 
to admit mistakes and misjudgments, and stubbornly refuses to change 
course.

The amendment sponsored by my distinguished senior Senator, Jack Reed 
of Rhode Island, and the honorable chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee, Carl Levin of Michigan, would require a redeployment of 
American troops to begin within 120 days of enactment. It sets a 
reasonable, responsible goal: that the redeployment be completed by 
April 30 of next year--2008.

Let us be clear: the Levin-Reed amendment offers a new direction in 
Iraq.

A vote for the Levin-Reed amendment is a vote to support our troops 
and their families who are bearing the burden of repeated deployments, 
long separation, and sometimes debilitating injury, and they bear it 
with courage, fortitude, and honor. This measure supports them by 
bringing the troops home safely and with honor.

A vote for the Levin-Reed amendment is a vote that will help give our 
military the time and the resources to rebuild and recover from the 
strain on our troops and equipment.

A vote for the Levin-Reed amendment opens strategic doors to renew 
diplomacy in the Middle East and throughout the world and to begin 
restoring America's standing, prestige, and good will in the global 
community.

More and more of our colleagues in this body recognize the need for 
this new direction. Many of those who supported the war in the past 
have now said they can no longer support President Bush in his failed 
and misguided course in Iraq. But I say to my friends, when the issue 
before us is our single most important matter of foreign policy and 
national security, words alone are not enough.

When our Nation's course has been as misdirected and mismanaged as it 
has been, words alone are not enough.

When, in the face of this policy's failure and the resulting chaos in 
Iraq,


corrective action is called for, words are not enough.

And when the opportunity for that correction is within our reach, 
within our grasp, if only we would seize it, mere words are not enough.

This is a day when we are called upon to act. The question before us 
is simple: Are you in favor of bringing our troops home? That is a 
serious question, and it demands serious, reasoned, and thoughtful 
debate.

I was recently struck by words spoken in this Chamber by Senator 
Richard Lugar of Indiana. Senator Lugar's words imparted a 
thoughtfulness that too long has been missing from this debate. Too 
often, this administration communicates not with reason but with 
slogans and sound bites: ''Stay the course.'' ''Support the troops.'' 
''Global war on terror.'' ''Cut and run.'' ''Precipitous withdrawal.'' 
I say to anyone watching this debate: When you hear those words coming 
from this Chamber, I hope an alarm bell goes off in your head, a signal 
that thinking and reason have ended and sloganeering has begun. You 
deserve better.

In May of 2003, President Bush landed on the aircraft carrier USS 
Abraham Lincoln and said this:




 Major combat operations in Iraq have ended. In the battle 


 of Iraq, the United States and our allies have prevailed.


In the background, of course, was the banner that read: ''Mission 
Accomplished.''

Then, over a year ago, in June 2006, President Bush announced 
Operation Together Forward, a ''joint effort to restore security and 
rule of law to high-risk areas in the capital city'' of Baghdad.

Then, this January, the President said he would send tens of 
thousands more troops there, part of a surge to try yet again to secure 
Iraq's capital.

The months since President Bush's surge have been among the deadliest 
of the war. Nearly 600 U.S. soldiers have died since the announcement 
of the surge, and over 3,500 have been wounded. Last month, more than 
100 American servicemembers died in Iraq. The month before that, more 
than 100 American troops lost their lives. The month before that, April 
of this year, over 100 American deaths. Between February 10 and May 7 
of this year, the Pentagon reports U.S. forces sustained an average of 
25 casualties each day--more than during that time in the previous 
year.

Alasdair Campbell, the U.K.'s outgoing Defense Attache at its Baghdad 
Embassy, said in May:




 The evidence does not suggest that the surge is actually 


 working, if reduction in casualties is a criterion.


The Pentagon's survey found that, on average, more than 100 Iraqi 
civilians were killed or wounded each day between February and May--
nearly double the daily total from the same period 1 year ago.

The number of unidentified murdered bodies found in Baghdad soared 70 
percent during the month of May--726, compared to 411 in April. At 
least 21 unidentified murdered bodies were found in Baghdad just this 
past weekend. The displacement of Iraqi civilians has continued 
throughout the spring--90,000 Iraqis per month in March, April, and May 
of 2007, according to the Brookings monthly Iraq Index. The average 
weekly number of attacks across Iraq surpassed 1,000, compared to about 
600 weekly attacks for the same period 1 year ago. More than 75 percent 
of the attacks were aimed at U.S. forces.

In an interview with the Washington Post in June, retired general 
Barry McCaffrey said:




 Why would we think that a temporary presence of 30,000 


 additional combat troops in a giant city would change the 


 dynamics of a bitter civil war?


In a survey taken in February and March of this year, 53 percent of 
Iraqis viewed their security environment as ''bad or very bad,'' and 
even in that environment, 78 percent of Iraqis, in an ABC News study, 
do not support having American or coalition forces in their country. 
Only 18 percent have confidence in U.S. and coalition troops, the BBC 
has reported, and 51 percent approve of attacking our forces.

David Kilcullen, General Petraeus's top counterinsurgency adviser, 
said last month:




 We haven't turned the tide. We haven't turned the corner. 


 There isn't light at the end of the tunnel.


We will not turn the tide, we will not turn the corner, and there 
will be no light at the end of the tunnel until this administration 
makes it clear that our intent is to withdraw our forces rapidly and 
responsibly.

The other side argues that to dispute this President's judgment is to 
fail to support the troops, even though that very judgment has 
catastrophically failed the troops and our country.

I traveled to Iraq in March, in my capacity as a new member of the 
Senate Intelligence Committee, to get a firsthand look. I met brave 
Rhode Islanders in Fallujah and at a medical center where Rhode 
Islanders are helping provide care to our wounded soldiers. They, like 
all our troops in Iraq, are serving our Nation with dedication, 
courage, and honor. Our troops are working so hard and accomplishing so 
much, but this administration has not given them the support they 
need--not in the field of battle, not when they return home, and, most 
importantly, not with wisdom to match their bravery.

As I traveled around Rhode Island in the last few years I met mothers 
who felt they had to buy body armor for their sons who were being 
shipped to Iraq because they could not trust this administration to 
provide it.

Just this week, USA Today reported extensively on the Pentagon's 
failure to address the Marines' request for Mine Resistant Ambush 
Protection--or MRAP--vehicles.

In February, a series of articles in the Washington Post highlighted 
shortfalls in the care and treatment of our wounded warriors at the 
Walter Reed Army hospital. The Nation's shock and dismay reflected the 
American people's support, respect, and gratitude for the men and women 
who put on our Nation's uniform. They deserve the best, not shoddy 
medical equipment, rundown facilities, and bureaucratic snafus.

This administration says we need to support the troops. I agree. We 
can support the troops by ensuring that they have the equipment, 
resources, and protection they need--and by caring for them when they 
return home. We can also support them with wise strategies arising from 
honest debate.

The President says Iraq is part of a vast ''global war on terror'' 
and that remaining mired in a conflict there is critical to our 
national security. But the war in Iraq has made us less, not more, 
secure. The way to reverse this trend is to redeploy our troops out of 
Iraq.

After our country has expended over $450 billion and lost more than 
3,600 American lives, according to the unclassified key judgments of 
the National Intelligence Estimate released yesterday, al-Qaida and 
other Islamist terrorist groups remain undiminished in their intent to 
attack the United States and continue to adapt and improve their 
capabilities.

While the Bush administration wallows in Iraq, al-Qaida has protected 
sanctuary along the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan, again 
according to the unclassified key judgments of the NIE.

National Intelligence Director Mike McConnell told the Senate Armed 
Services Committee that he believes a successful attack by al-Qaida 
would most likely be planned and come out of the group's locations in 
Pakistan, not Iraq. Al-Qaida, the perpetrators of the September 11 
terrorist attacks on the United States, remains a significant threat to 
our country and our national security, and 4 years of war in Iraq has 
not changed that fact.

President Bush and his diehard allies say that what we and the 
American people support is cut-and-run or a precipitous withdrawal.

The Levin-Reed amendment requires that we begin redeploying American 
troops from Iraq 4 months after the measure is enacted--not 4 days, not 
4 weeks, but 4 months. Surely, with the greatest military in the world, 
we have the capacity to plan in 4 months to begin a redeployment of our 
troops. In fact, I would be surprised and concerned if our military 
were not already planning for such a contingency.

Then, the Levin-Reed amendment sets a date for redeployment of April 
30, 2008. If this amendment became law tomorrow, that would give our 
military and this administration more than 9 months to plan and 
implement our troops' redeployment--a redeployment that leaves a 
military presence for force protection, training, and


counterterrorism in Iraq. Is that truly a precipitous withdrawal? It is 
not. Those who say it is are not being straightforward with the Senate 
and with the American people.

Let me say this, because it is one of the elements of this issue 
which President Bush has completely and willfully overlooked: The time 
it will take for us to redeploy should not be idle or wasted time; it 
must be a time of great energy and effort, because it is our time of 
opportunity to begin the tough process of diplomacy that can help 
stabilize the Middle East and restore America's standing and prestige 
around the world.

It is a window of time in which we must aggressively engage the 
region and the world community in the ongoing work to rebuild Iraq and 
restore stability there, in which we can confound the insurgents who 
foment civil war from within Iraq and the global jihadists who import 
violence from without it. It is a window in which Iraq's political 
leaders can be motivated to work for cooperation, unity, and real 
progress.

In a recent op-ed in the Washington Post, former Secretary of State 
Henry Kissinger described the reality that the cauldron of Iraq may 
overflow and engulf the region. He goes on to say that:




 The continuation of Iraq's current crisis presents all of 


 Iraq's neighbors with mounting problems. . . . Saudi Arabia 


 and Jordan dread Shiite domination of Iraq, especially if the 


 Baghdad regime threatens to be a satellite of Iran. The 


 various Gulf sheikdoms, the largest of which is Kuwait, 


 find themselves in an even more threatened position. Their 


 interest is to help calm the Iraq turmoil and avert 


 Iranian domination of the region.


Then he says that:




 Given a wise and determined American diplomacy, even Iran 


 may be brought to conclude that the risks of continued 


 turmoil outweigh the temptations before it.


But make no mistake, as long as we occupy Iraq, the broader 
international engagement we need will remain elusive. With the 
announcement of a U.S. redeployment, Iraq's neighbors must face the 
prospect that the Iraq cauldron may overflow, and they will, therefore, 
be obliged to take a more helpful--in the case of Saudi Arabia--or a 
more tempered--in the case of Iran--role in the area's future. They 
will have no other practical choice because their own national 
interests will now be squarely on the line.

As ADM William J. Fallon has said:




 I see an awful lot of sitting and watching by countries in 


 the neighborhood. It is high time that changed.


Well, it is high time that changed, but our mediate and buffering 
military presence prevents that from changing.

A redeployment will also deprive the insurgents of a strong 
recruiting tool--the al-Qaida narrative that the United States has 
imperial designs over Muslim lands, which resonates strongly in the 
Middle East due to their own colonial experiences with the British and 
the Ottomans.

If we make it clear that our troops are coming home--and, critically 
important, that we are not leaving permanent bases behind--the 
insurgents and terror networks will lose this defining argument.

The Bush administration and its supporters noted that the Sunni 
sheiks of Anbar Province have recently turned against al-Qaida in Iraq. 
When I met with Marine commanders in Fallujah during my trip to Iraq in 
March, they told me the same thing--and what an important and exciting 
development that was.

The marine general briefing us made clear that these Sunni sheiks 
turned against al-Qaida in the realization that the United States would 
not be in Iraq forever, thanks to the political debate this Congress 
has insisted on since the November election. It was the prospect of our 
redeployment that moved them to action.

Once all factions in Iraq must face the naked consequences of their 
actions, we should hope, and expect, to see similar moments of 
strategic clarity emerge.

How are they doing without that pressure? Last week, we saw a report 
from the White House that was deeply troubling. The report said that it 
has become significantly harder for Iraqi leaders to make the difficult 
compromises necessary to foster reconciliation.

In particular, the administration has focused on four objectives: 
provincial elections, deBaathification, constitutional reform, and the 
hydrocarbons law. These are the exact same issues U.S. and Iraqi 
military leaders stressed to us during our trip in March. Without 
progress in these areas, I was told by our generals, our military 
tactics would not succeed in accomplishing the ultimate goal.

It would be putting it mildly to say I was not reassured by the 
signals I received from our meetings with Iraqi officials. There was a 
severe disconnect between the urgency of our generals about this 
legislation and the absence of equivalent urgency, or even energy, on 
the part of Iraqi officials. One American soldier I met put it in 
plain, homespun terms:




 If your parents are willing to pay for the movies so you 


 don't have to use your own money, or if you can get your big 


 sister to do your homework for you, who wants to give that 


 up?


Well, Mr. President, it is time. To quote the report:




 1, the government of Iraq has not made satisfactory 


 progress toward enacting and implementing legislation on de-


 Baathi-


 fication reform. This is among the most divisive political 


 issues for Iraq and compromise will be extremely difficult.



 2, the current status [of efforts to enact hydrocarbon 


 legislation] is unsatisfactory. The government of Iraq has 


 not met its self-imposed goal of May 31 for submitting the 


 framework hydrocarbon revenue-sharing laws.



 3, the government of Iraq has not made satisfactory 


 progress toward establishing a provincial election law.



 4, the government of Iraq has not made satisfactory 


 progress toward establishing a date for provincial elections. 


 Legislation required for setting the date has not been 


 enacted.



 5, the government of Iraq has not made satisfactory 


 progress toward establishing provincial council authorities.


So how does the administration respond to the list of unsatisfactory 
progress on their key elements? Let's turn again to the White House 
report:

De-Baathification:




 This does not, however, necessitate a revision to the 


 current plan and strategy.


Hydrocarbon legislation:




 This does not, however, necessitate a revision to our 


 current plan and strategy.


Provincial elections.




 However, at this time, this does not necessitate a revision 


 to our current plan and strategy.


It is clear that the Iraqis have not yet made that progress. Yet this 
President and this administration refuse to take the one step that 
could truly galvanize real change in Iraq--announcing a redeployment of 
American forces. They must look into the abyss. We must announce that 
we will redeploy our troops. This is a necessary step.


A redeployment of our troops creates the potential to change the 
overarching dynamic for the better, freeing us to focus more 
effectively on strategies to counter al-Qaida and stabilize the region.

This is a critical step, and thoughtful, reasoned political and 
diplomatic leadership will be essential to take advantage of the new 
dynamic a redeployment offers.

This is a positive step, to improve our posture and advance our 
strategic interests.

I know my Republican colleagues wish to couch this change of course 
in terms of failure and abandonment. Whether this is just for 
rhetorical advantage, or whether they just cannot see redeployment as a 
calibrated part of a new and more promising regional strategy, I do not 
know. Let me say this, though. This is not a test of resolve. We have 
an enormously complex problem, a problem we have tried to solve by 
military force alone. Despite heroic efforts by our military, that 
strategy has failed--catastrophically. It did not fail because anything 
was lacking in our troops, it failed because the strategy was wrong--
wrong at its inception, wrong in its execution, and wrong now.

We in the Senate must challenge the administration to summon the 
political courage and the moral courage to face the fact that the 
strategy was wrong and needs to change. It is never easy to admit 
mistakes, but when the lives of our troops and the strategic position 
of our country are at stake, they have to do what is right, not what is 
politically comfortable or fits the rhetoric. This should not be too 
much to ask of a President of the United States.

If, as so many believe, we are on a continuing collision course with 
the


facts, with the lessons of history; if our strategy is, in fact, ill-
advised; if we indeed are creating and maintaining a poisonous dynamic 
in the region for ourselves, can we not at least consider that 
redeployment--specifically, the credible threat of redeployment--can 
open new doors for resolving the civil conflicts over which we are now 
the unwelcome police?

The measure now before the Senate sets forth a thoughtful, 
responsible path to redeploy our troops out of Iraq. It provides our 
military commanders with the time and resources they need to redeploy 
our troops safely. It will focus Iraq's political leaders on making 
progress, where, to put it mildly, thus far insufficient progress has 
been made on measures critical to their nation's future and our 
success. And it will galvanize the international community and the 
region in the practical and self-interested pursuit--or acceptance--of 
a more stable, more secure Iraq.

The Levin-Reed amendment is the new direction Americans have called 
for. It is the change of course we desperately need. In a few hours, 
this long debate, this long night, will draw to a close. I urge my 
colleagues to let us vote up or down, yes or no, on the new direction 
the Levin-Reed amendment embodies.