# None
## `223ac0a50a9afacf68cc163f62475a89`
`Ms. STABENOW â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, there are no good wars or bad wars; 
there are only necessary wars or unnecessary wars. Five years ago, I 
was proud to stand along with the distinguished Presiding Officer on 
the floor of this body and argue that going into war with Iraq was 
unnecessary. It wasn't an easy day for any of us. No burden weighs 
heavier on the shoulders of any one of us than questions of war and 
peace. We deliberate countless and important issues in this Chamber, 
but none are as serious as sending America's sons and daughters into 
harm's way. I stood here that day in October and said this is a vote of 
conscience, also a vote of historic consequence, because what we debate 
and decide here will not only significantly affect this great Nation, 
but will immediately influence global events for years to come. No 
matter how difficult the decision may be, it is one each of us must 
make for the sake of our country. We have an obligation and a duty to 
carefully weigh the consequences of a preemptive attack. I went on to 
say that before we engage in war, we must understand that the results 
of war are irrevocable and a peaceful solution should always be our 
first choice.

Today, we are living with the consequences of this war. We will 
continue to live with those consequences in our communities, in terms 
of young lives lost and shattered, and families who will never be whole 
again, and the emptiness left by neighbors who gave their last full 
measure in this fight. As a nation, we will live with these 
consequences for years to come as we face a world we shaped by this 
unnecessary war--a world in which we must now deal with a reinvigorated 
al-Qaida and a less stable Middle East today than when the first 
American tanks rolled into Baghdad.

We cannot go back and change the mistakes and missteps that have 
brought us here, but we can and we must begin to dig ourselves out of 
the hole that we have dug in Iraq. We can and we must embrace a 
strategy that brings our troops home safely and responsibly. We can and 
we must make the tough choices to end this war.

Twenty-three of us stood up against the war on that October 
afternoon. Today, there are more of us. We have all watched the events 
of the last half decade play out in front of us. We have watched the 
violence and the horror of modern war play out on our television sets. 
We have listened over and over again as the administration's rhetoric 
has become more and more detached from the reality of what is going on 
in Iraq. What were merely predictions and concerns in 2002 have today 
become reality. Militarily, we are paying the price every day for the 
administration's neglect in planning for the aftermath of initial 
combat operations in Iraq.

Our troops are fighting and working in extreme conditions. They face 
an


enemy they often cannot identify, one that has shown a total disregard 
for human life and a willingness to sacrifice themselves, their 
families, and innocent bystanders merely to inflict damage on American 
forces and innocent Iraqi citizens. Every day, they face an environment 
to test their physical limits, in 100-plus degree heat. We know it is 
very hot now. Those of us who have been to Iraq understand the kind of 
conditions with the heat and the sand and the conditions that are 
happening there that are, in many cases, unimaginable. They face an 
Iraqi Government that refuses to take responsibility for the future of 
the people of Iraq, one that leans on American forces instead of 
effectively partnering with them to allow our forces to step back and 
Iraqi security forces to step into the front line.

Our fighting forces are stretched to their limit. They are getting 
the job done and they are bravely doing that. We are proud of them. But 
by forcing multiple redeployments without proper rest, this 
administration has let them down. We have alienated countless foreign 
allies, squandered the international good will that was at our 
fingertips after the attacks of 9/11. We turned Iraq into a breeding 
ground and training school for terrorists, providing 
international rallying points for extremists. There was not an 
organized presence of al-Qaida in Iraq until this administration chose 
to invade.


The administration's own National Intelligence Estimate, released 
today--yesterday at this point--specifically notes that ''al-Qaida will 
probably seek to leverage the contacts and capabilities of al-Qaida in 
Iraq, its most visible and capable affiliate and the only one known to 
have expressed a desire to attack the homeland.''

This NIE reveals the sobering truth. Not only has this unnecessary 
war not increased the safety of the American people, but al-Qaida's 
recovery is a direct result of this administration's decision to invade 
Iraq. Meanwhile, conditions in Iraq have spiraled. The daily headlines 
of our newspapers seem to be ripped from the pages of a Greek tragedy: 
Suicide bombers; civil war; American soldiers unable to tell friends 
from foes; units serving second and third and now even fourth 
redeployments; American troops returning home physically mangled, 
emotionally drained, and psychologically injured; lives and families 
changed forever.

Five years ago, Americans had never heard of an IED or a traumatic 
brain injury. They are now part of our everyday news. We have paid the 
price in American lives--3,613 dead and 26,806 wounded. We have paid 
the price in misdirected resources. The billions we have spent in Iraq 
represent countless missed opportunities here at home, opportunities to 
strengthen our communities, schools, and hospitals, to create jobs and 
support our families. When I think of the fact that the latest numbers 
are now $12 billion a month being spent, and we will debate next week a 
children's health care plan that we want to fund at $10 billion a 
year--$12 billion a month versus $10 billion a year to cover every 
child of a working low-income family who doesn't have insurance in 
America--this is wrong.

We have also paid the price with our international reputation. 
America, the world's moral leader, has lost the faith of too many. The 
hearts and minds we needed to win have too often turned their backs on 
this administration's arrogance. For too long now, I have watched the 
Republican leadership engage in legislative games and political 
posturing to avoid taking an up-or-down vote on this war.

That is what we are asking for. Let us vote. Stop the filibuster and 
let us vote. They have turned their backs on their responsibilities to 
the people who elected them and to our troops--most important--and 
their families because they don't like that they may lose a vote. I 
have stood on the floor of the Senate time and again to voice my 
opposition to the war.

Sending more Americans into combat without a strategy for success 
will not improve the situation on the ground, and it will not bring our 
men and women in uniform home any sooner. Only the Iraqis can secure 
Iraq, and American troops cannot be seen as a substitute for Iraqi 
resolve.

The so-called surge has done nothing but reinforce this reality. We 
are rushing more American troops into combat every day and not seeing 
the increase in security that is needed. Why would we go farther down 
the path that has led us to this point? Why? Why would we repeat 
previous mistakes and call it a new strategy?

This administration failed our troops by committing them to this war 
without a clear reason or goal. This administration failed our troops 
by not having a clear mission for our armed services in Iraq. This 
administration has failed our troops by not providing the proper 
equipment, body armor, and logistical support for our forces. They 
failed our troops with poor planning for the invasion of Iraq and their 
total lack of planning for how to secure the country. They have failed 
our troops by sending them back into harm's way over and over and over 
again, without the proper rest between redeployments.

Our armed services have traveled a tough road since we invaded Iraq. 
They have shouldered a heavy burden with pride, patriotism, confidence, 
and honor. We have asked extraordinary things from them at every turn, 
and at every turn they have delivered magnificently. They have made us 
all proud. They have faced tough situations. They have made tough 
choices and done their duty. Now we need to do what is right for them.

Unlike the President, all of us go home and face our constituents--
our neighbors. We see them at church, at the grocery store, at the 
kids' schools, and at events all over our States. They sent us here to 
be their voice. As we know, this is not Washington, DC's war. We may 
set policy here, we make speeches here, we take votes here, but this is 
America's war. The men and women putting their lives on the line in 
Iraq every day are from every size town and city--from farms and 
factory towns. There is no red or blue America when it comes to the war 
in Iraq. War knows no political party. Americans do not watch their 
nightly news or read about the troops that didn't make it home in their 
local papers and think, well, I am a Republican or a Democrat. They 
think I am an American, I want a change, I have had enough. Enough is 
enough.

We sit here in this historic Capitol while Republican colleagues 
filibuster and stop the Senate from voting yes or no on a proposal to 
change course and end this war. While we do that, communities across 
the country bury their loved ones, schools hold vigils for alumni laid 
to rest too young, churches comfort parishioners who have lost sons, 
daughters, husbands, wives, mothers, and fathers.

We are the voices of these communities, of these towns and cities and 
counties. We were elected with their sacred trust to come to Washington 
and speak out for them, to make our mark for them on the issues that 
face them and face our country.

By continuing to stonewall a vote on this Levin-Reed amendment, the 
Republican minority has stripped all Americans of their voice in this 
debate. They have said to the people who elected us that this issue of 
war is not important enough to have their elected representatives vote 
yes or no on the substance.

Too often in the white noise of politics, we lose sight of the 
responsibilities we bear. We get bogged down in the politics of 
partisanship and lose sight of why we were elected.

I believe we owe it to the American people to take this vote--take 
the vote--not to just stop the filibuster but to have the vote on the 
policy. There is nothing more important or more pressing to the people 
of this country right now than this war. It is the responsibility of 
the Congress to engage in shaping the policy concerning the war on 
behalf of all of the American people.

The Levin-Reed amendment is as simple as it is necessary. It sets a 
firm start and end date to transition the mission and begin the 
reduction of U.S. forces, beginning 120 days after its enactment and 
completed April 30 of next year, 2008.

The amendment limits the U.S. military mission after April 30 to 
counterterrorism, training of Iraqi security forces, and protection of 
U.S. personnel and assets.

Finally, it requires that the reduction in forces be part of a 
comprehensive, diplomatic, regional, political and economic effort, and 
it appoints an international mediator to bring together the warring 
factions.

The President's strategy in Iraq has not worked. This war was started 
on a


false rationale. It was executed based on false assumptions. It has led 
to heartbreaking consequences.

Supporters of the war in Iraq have claimed that one of their goals is 
to spread democracy throughout the region--an ironic statement 
considering they are stifling the democratic process right here on the 
floor of the Senate. This issue is too serious not to take an up-or-
down vote on changing policy. The American people want to bring our 
sons and daughters home. It is our job to vote yes or no and let them 
know where we stand, not to use parliamentary procedural votes to stand 
in the way of the people's will.

I have said it before and it remains true tonight: History will judge 
this administration on how they have waged this war. History will judge 
us on how we end it. We have all walked different paths to get to this 
point. Many of us were here when the war began. Some have joined this 
body in the intervening years. Many who today stand with us were once 
for the war. None of that matters at this point. What matters is the 
facts and what we are prepared to do about them. Are we prepared to 
stand up to the White House and say enough is enough? Enough is enough.

It is morning in Baghdad right now, and our troops are waking up or 
are on duty, another day on the front lines. The unpleasant truth is 
that too many American men and women will be wounded today while doing 
their jobs. Odds are that some will lose their lives in service to 
their country. But they are there, focused on their job. They are 
focused on their duty. They assume we are back here focusing on the 
mission and the strategy and making sure we get it right. They are 
counting on us to get it right, as they are focused on their jobs every 
day. They are getting the job done. Everybody who woke up in Iraq this 
morning and put on the uniform is a hero. Every day we let this war 
drag on is another day they are fighting without a strategy that works 
for them. We should all be able to agree that is simply unacceptable.

I would like to close with the same words I closed with in October of 
2002. We have witnessed a lot in the last 5 years, but these words are 
as true tonight as they were then:




 We are a strong and powerful nation, made that way by our 


 willingness to go that extra mile in the name of liberty and 


 peace. The time is now for us to work together in the name of 


 the American people and get it right.


I urge my colleagues to vote to end the filibuster and support the 
Levin-Reed amendment.

I yield the floor.