# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `22461a44de0672191cc0dd788855eaad`
`Mr. CONRAD â€” 5 February 2008`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Madam President, the President says the deficit for 2008 
will be $410 billion. If you look at his proposals, you see the debt 
will increase under his plan by more than $700 billion. Let me repeat 
that. Under the President's plan, the debt will not increase by the 
advertised deficit of $410 billion; the debt will increase by more than 
$700 billion.

Why the big difference? The biggest reason is that, under the 
President's plan, nearly $200 billion in Social Security money is being 
taken to pay other bills. If you were doing that in the private sector, 
if you were taking retirement funds of your employees to pay operating 
expenses, you would be on your way to a Federal institution. But it 
would not be the House of Representatives or the White House; you would 
be on your way to the ''big house'' because that is a violation of 
Federal law. But here the President can propose a budget that does it. 
In fact, that is what he has done the entire time he has been in 
office. He has taken trillions of dollars in Social Security money and 
used it to pay other bills. The problem with that, of course, is that 
while none of it is counted in the deficit calculation, it all gets 
added to the debt. The result is that here is what is happening to the 
gross debt of the United States. At the end of the President's first 
year--and we don't hold him responsible for that year because he 
inherited a budget from the previous administration--the debt was $5.8 
trillion, the entire debt of the U.S. Government, the Federal 
Government. We now see that at the end of 2009, which is the last year 
he will be responsible for, the debt will be $10.4 trillion. So he will 
have increased the debt of this country by 80 percent in 8 years. What 
a disastrous legacy this is. He has us on course to have more than $13 
trillion in debt by 2013. This is before the baby boomers retire. We 
cannot pay our bills now. Can you imagine what is going to happen when 
we double, in very short order, the number of people eligible for 
Medicare and Social Security?

Madam President, perhaps of even greater concern is what this 
President has done to foreign holdings of our debt. It took all of 
these Presidents pictured here on this chart--all of the 42 previous 
Presidents--224 years to run up a trillion dollars of U.S. debt held 
abroad. This President has more than doubled that amount in just 7 
years. He has added over $1.3 trillion of foreign-held debt in his 7 
years. That means we now owe the Japanese nearly $600 billion; we owe 
the Chinese a sum approaching $400 billion; we owe the British over 
$300 billion; we owe the Koreans over $40 billion. That is the legacy 
of this administration.

Now the President comes with his budget, and says he is going to 
start doing something about the spending side of this equation. He 
said: I want to cut Medicare and Medicaid over the next 10 years by 
$600 billion. No, I didn't misspeak. That is what is in the President's 
budget. He wants to cut Medicare and Medicaid $600 billion over the 
next 10 years. That is health care for those who are Medicare 
eligible--largely the senior citizens of this country. The President 
wants to cut that by $600 billion.

At the same time, in the same breath, in the same budget, he says: 
While we are doing that, let's cut taxes another $2.2 trillion. Let's 
dig the hole even deeper and add more to the deficit and debt. Let's go 
more in hock to the Chinese, the Japanese, and anybody else who will 
loan us money.

Madam President, these numbers of the President substantially 
understate how serious it is. Why? Because, magically, he has just left 
things out. On the war, the President has no costs beyond the first 
half of 2009. The President said there should be no timetable on Iraq. 
He has just provided the timetable, hasn't he? He provided the 
timetable for withdrawal in his budget because he says there is going 
to only be funding for next year. The President, who said he is against 
a timetable for withdrawal, just wrote one. His timetable is provided 
in his budget. He says that after 4 months of next year, there is not 
going to be any funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. How much 
will be spent for the wars in 2010? He says zero. Next year, it is $70 
billion, after spending nearly $200 billion this year. This budget 
charitably can be called a great work of fiction because it bears no 
relationship to any reality.

In addition, regarding the alternative minimum tax, which everybody 
says has to be fixed, he has the money to fix it for 1 year. He doesn't 
have a dime to fix it for any of the next 4 years after that. So we are 
talking about hundreds of billions of dollars that are not in this 
budget.

Finally, for the fourth year in a row, for the first time in any 
administration's history, the President provides no spending details 
past this coming year. So he has the cuts in there, but he doesn't tell 
you how they are going to be done. More make believe, more fantasy, and 
more fiction--that is what this budget is all about.

Madam President, the war cost $193 billion this year. Next year, it 
will only cost $70 billion--that is what the President says. That is in 
this budget. Can anybody believe it? I have not found anybody who 
does--not if the President's policy is pursued.

In terms of the priorities of this budget, they are also subject to 
serious question because if you look at the relative priorities of what 
the President has proposed, here is what you see.

For those who earn over $1 million a year, the cost of the 
President's tax cuts for that category of earners will cost $51 billion 
in 2009 alone. Let me repeat that. The cost of the tax cuts for those 
earning over $1 million a year will be $51 billion in 1 year alone. On 
the other hand, the President says we have to cut low-income heating 
assistance by $400 million. So you don't have $400 million for low-
income heating assistance, but you do have $51 billion for tax cuts for 
the wealthiest among us.


The priorities continue in that same vein. It would take $826 million 
to restore the cuts to education that are in this President's budget--
$826 million for 1 year. Again, the President says, no, it is far more 
important--if you do the math, he is saying it is more than 60 times as 
important to provide additional tax cuts for those earning over a 
million dollars a year, because the tax cuts for that category--the 
cost of the tax cuts are over $51 billion for next year.

The same is true in law enforcement. In many ways, this is the most 
startling. The President says eliminate the COPS Program, which has put 
more than 100,000 police officers on the street. The President says 
forget it, cut it 100 percent. No additional police on the street. What 
sense does that make when crime is rising? He doesn't say cut it; he 
says eliminate it. It would cost $596 million for 1 year to restore 
that program. Again, the cost of the President's tax cuts for those 
earning over $1 million a year is $51 billion. That is almost 100 times 
as much as restoring funding for police.

If we look at specific proposals by the President in this budget, we 
see he proposes cutting the COPS Program, as I have indicated, by 100 
percent; weatherization assistance, cut that 100 percent; first 
responders--the aid to our firemen and our emergency personnel--he says 
cut that 78 percent; clean water grants, cut that 21 percent; community 
development block grants which help our cities--and every mayor will 
tell you these are the most flexible funds they get from the Federal 
Government--cut that 20 percent; cut low-income energy assistance 17 
percent.

Madam President, that brings me to the subject of the need for a 
stimulus package. Economic growth, we are seeing, has slowed 
dramatically. The Congressional Budget Office says economic growth is 
going to slow to 1.5 percent this year.

By the way, all of the numbers I used, and the President's budget--do 
you know what economic growth number he used? He didn't use 1.5 
percent, which comes from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. 
He says the economy will grow at 2.7 percent. So all those numbers I 
showed are the best-case scenario, because he has a rosy scenario with 
respect to what economic growth will look like. If we look at the last 
quarter of last year, what


happened to economic growth? It slowed to six-tenths of 1 percent. That 
should be a tipoff that we have a problem.

Here is what is happening to the housing industry. They are not in a 
recession; they are in a depression. Here is what happened to new home 
building. It has gone from a peak in 2006, and it has virtually 
collapsed. We just met with the homebuilding industry. They say this is 
the worst downturn since the Great Depression. That ought to get 
somebody's attention.

Energy costs are spiking. We know what happened to fuel prices, 
fertilizer prices, home heating fuel, gasoline, and diesel. As a result 
of that, consumer confidence has taken an enormous hit.

Here is the index of consumer confidence, which was down very 
dramatically as we went through the months of last year and into the 
early part of this year. This is what signals that we are in serious 
territory and that the economy is seriously at risk.

The unemployment rate has risen sharply over the past year. We saw in 
the last jobs report that we actually lost 17,000 jobs. This was 
stunning to most economists, who were forecasting there would continue 
to be slow but modest job growth. Instead, it appears the economy hit a 
wall.

Madam President, this is what the Federal Reserve Chairman told us on 
January 17:




 Any stimulus program should be explicitly temporary, both 


 to avoid unwanted stimulus beyond the near term horizon and, 


 importantly, to preclude an increase in the Federal 


 Government's structural budget deficit.


He went on to say about an effective stimulus:




 There is good evidence that cash that goes to low and 


 moderate income people is more likely to be spent in the near 


 term. . . . Getting money to people quickly is good, and 


 getting money to low and moderate income people is good, in 


 the sense of getting bang for the buck.


Here are the elements that represent improvements in the Senate 
stimulus package. We cover 20 million seniors who were not covered in 
the House package, and 250,000 disabled veterans are included in the 
Senate package but not in the House's. We have higher rebates for low-
income households--$500 versus $300. It extends unemployment insurance 
benefits, which gives us the biggest bang for the buck. We prohibit 
illegal aliens from receiving rebates. That was not brought to their 
attention in an effective way, so, unfortunately, it is conceivable 
that illegal aliens could get rebates under the House package. We have 
prevented that in the Senate package. We also have better targeted 
business provisions, especially the net operating loss carryback. I am 
proud to have authored an amendment that losses in 2008 could be 
carried back to profitable years, so that companies that are in this 
depression--those in the homebuilding industry--will qualify for 
assistance to prevent them from having even steeper layoffs and cuts.

Finally, we encourage investment in alternative energy. Let me just 
point out that some say, in terms of incentives, that the extension for 
1 year, for example, of the wind energy tax incentives, that is not 
stimulative. Really?

Tell that to the company in North Dakota that makes the big blades 
for wind turbines. They have told me, if the wind energy tax provision 
is not extended, they are going to start laying off people. They employ 
hundreds of people in my State. When people say the energy package is 
not stimulative, I tell you in my State it is because we have 
manufacturing facilities that make the giant blades for the wind 
turbines.

I have commented on the President's budget because the President is 
going to dump a debt bomb on the desk of the next President. That is 
what is going to occur. He has nearly doubled the national debt. He has 
it going up at a rate of $800 billion a year, not the $400 billion of 
deficit we read about in the paper. The debt is going up twice as much, 
$800 billion a year, after this next year when it is going up $700 
billion.

The next President is walking into a fiscal meltdown of historic 
proportion. This President has been the most wildly irresponsible 
fiscal steward in this country's history. That is a fact. The next 
President and the next Congress better get ready because they are 
walking into an absolute fiscal quagmire.

I yield the floor.