# None
## `229448e21119dbae74a11265a4214d42`
`Mr. BAUCUS â€” 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Madam President, John F. Kennedy once said:




 As we express our gratitude, we must never forget that the 


 highest appreciation is not to utter words, but to live by 


 them.


I rise today to express my gratitude to the Montanans who have served 
our country in uniform. Montana is home to over 100,000 veterans. Many 
others gave the ultimate sacrifice in service of our Nation. Twenty-
four Montanans have given their lives in combat in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. We owe these brave warriors a debt of gratitude that can 
never be fully repaid, and it is an honor to call myself one of their 
countrymen.

These veterans embody everything that is great about this Nation. 
They are tough. They are smart. They work hard. No matter the task, 
they get the job done. But the highest appreciation deserves more than 
just words. In honor of all Montanans who have served this great 
Nation, I am launching the Defenders of Freedom Fellowship. The 
Defenders of Freedom Fellowship offers professional experience in the 
U.S. Senate for Montana veterans. Each fellow will work in my personal 
office on veterans issues. The fellow will research issues and 
correspond with constituents, attend congressional hearings, and work 
on new legislation. The fellow will gain a rare insight into how the 
American Government works. The fellow will serve our Nation's veterans 
and all the people of Montana.

The fellowship has three goals. First, the fellowship aims to help 
involve more veterans in public service. A veteran's patriotism and 
love of service is a valuable asset to any public office.


Second, the fellowship will take advantage of all the experience a 
veteran has to offer. Many of these young men and women have experience 
well beyond their years. We have much to learn from what they have seen 
and done. We will gain a new perspective on tough problems we are 
working to solve.

Last, the fellowship is a humble way to say thank you to Montana's 
veterans, humble because it is an invitation for a veteran to come to 
Washington to work. However, this fellowship can also offer a gift. 
Some fellows will find a love for public service that will last a 
lifetime. This passion for public service has propelled many to 
greatness. It is this spirit that has inspired our Nation's greatest 
leaders.

I am excited about this--very excited. I am very excited about this 
fellowship and the opportunity I will have to work with some of 
Montana's veterans. To all Montana veterans and their families, I offer 
my gratitude for your service and for your sacrifice. To the future 
Defenders of Freedom fellows, I look forward to working with you soon. 
I thank you in advance for your efforts. I am confident you will find 
your service very rewarding.

Madam President, I yield the floor.