# None
## `22a1d93461ec817c50f1c9f11d3cf1d9`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota â€” 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. I thank the gentleman for yielding. That is 
exactly the point.

You had a chart up earlier that said something about you are entitled 
to your own opinion, but not your own facts. We seem to be very 
selective. We have heard a lot of very selective fact-choosing 
recently.

I remember in the debate we had on the floor of this body a couple of 
weeks ago, there were people who said consistently that the President's 
troop surge was in violation of the recommendation of the Iraq Study 
Group. We know for a fact that is not true, that on page 73 the Iraq 
Study Group agreed that a surge would be appropriate if it was 
requested by the commander on the ground, and we have covered in this 
Special Order the fact that the commander on the ground, General David 
Petraeus, has in fact said that he needs those troops, and it will be 
for a temporary basis.

If I can take one more minute, because I know our colleagues have 
joined us and others want to speak on this critical issue, we do have 
some details of the Democrat supplemental so far that I have been 
looking at and trying to figure out. It is just a barrage of demands on 
the administration for reports and certifications which will make this 
unworkable for the Commander in Chief. It is in fact micromanagement.

There is by July 1, 2007, the President has to report on a whole 
series of things. By October 1, 2007, he has to have another report 
verifying the report from July 1. In either case, if that doesn't 
satisfy the majority in the Congress, we have to start withdrawing 
troops within 180 days. If none of that applies and nothing else 
pertains by March 1, that is less than a year away, we have to begin 
deployment and redeployment. We have to leave; we have to retreat from 
Iraq within 180 days. This indeed details a plan for defeat.

I don't know yet exactly all it is going to say, but one of the 
things that is in this bill would require that no Federal funds could 
be used to send any military unit to Iraq ''unless the chief of the 
military department concerned has certified in writing at least 15 days 
in advance as to the readiness of this unit.'' I don't know, but if you 
are in the 82nd Airborne, within 15 days you are already long since on 
the ground and in combat.

It is horrible micromanaging. As I said in my opening remarks joining 
you here on the floor, I agree with the L.A. Times, and I don't get to 
say that very often, so perhaps I should say it again: I agree with the 
L.A. Times that we don't need a General Pelosi or a General Murtha, or 
for that matter a General Price or a General Kline. We have a general 
on the ground, and we ought to be doing everything in our power to make 
sure that he and our young men and women have everything they need to 
succeed.

I know that all of us worry about our sons and daughters that we send 
over there, we as a body. I certainly worry. My son has been over and 
back and is planning to deploy again to Afghanistan. I worry about my 
son and about all sons and daughters. But I absolutely do not want to 
be part of sending our sons and daughters into conflict knowing that 
all we have is a plan for them to fail. That, in my mind, and I think 
in many of their minds, is a betrayal.



I had some of the $21 billion of extra spending here, but I know that 
we have other colleagues that are joining us, and for that I thank you 
again for your leadership and yield back.

Mr. Price of Georgia. I thank the gentleman from Minnesota again for 
his participation here and great perspective and for outlining truly 
what the majority party has done, and that is outlined their plan for 
failure. This is not a plan for victory. It is not even a plan for the 
defense of the United States. It is a plan for failure.



I think it is important that as we bring truth and light to this 
discussion and this debate that the American people appreciate that.

It is not by any grand fabrication that we come up with this 
Commander in Chief notion, it comes out of the Constitution of the 
United States. Article II, Section 2, for those who are interested in 
looking it up for themselves, says the President shall be the Commander 
in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States and of the militia 
of several States when called into actual service of the United States.

It doesn't say as long as the Speaker of the House says it is okay. 
It says that the President shall be the Commander in Chief. So if the 
majority leadership in this House wants to have a debate about whether 
or not we ought to fund the military challenges that we have around the 
world, including in Iraq, let us have that debate and let's have that 
vote. But let's not go through a micromanagement and a slow-bleed 
process which would be the death knell of our military accomplishments 
in the Middle East and in Iraq.

With that, I am pleased to have join us the gentleman from Tennessee 
(Mr. David Davis). I welcome you and look forward to your comments.