# None
## `2420416f55e64416a1c2a2412005a4e1`
`Mr. KENNEDY â€” 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I rise in response to the shocking news 
reported on the front page of the New York Times that the Department of 
Justice gave legal advice authorizing the use of extreme interrogation 
techniques not only in 2002 and 2003 but also at least two more times 
in 2005. This revelation shows that the Justice Department has fallen 
even lower than we had realized and that it is up to Congress to take a 
firm stand against torture because this Executive cannot be trusted to 
do so.

We have been here before. Before this morning, we already knew about 
an earlier opinion by the Office of Legal Counsel that authorized the 
use of torture. When this ''torture memo'' came to light, the Bybee 
memorandum, it inspired worldwide outrage and condemnation. America 
lost its moral high ground in the fight against terrorism, possibly for 
years to come. This memo and others like it violated the values we hold 
dear, undermined our intelligence gathering, and encouraged our enemies 
to respond in kind. But the opinion was not only morally wrong, it was 
also legally wrong. After the public outrage over the opinions broke, 
the Office of Legal Counsel took the extraordinary step of withdrawing 
it, and as far as we know, this is the first time an OLC opinion had 
ever been overturned within a single administration.

Today's New York Times story tells us that this disgraceful episode 
did not end when the torture memorandum was withdrawn. At the same time 
the Justice Department was publicly claiming it had put things right, 
the Office of Legal Counsel was secretly issuing two new opinions. The 
first opinion authorized harsh interrogation techniques together, in 
combination, to create a more extreme overall effect. In other words, 
interrogators


could withhold food at the same time they subjected detainees to 
freezing temperatures. The second opinion declared none of the CIA's 
interrogation methods violated the ban on cruel, inhuman, and degrading 
treatment that Congress was getting ready to pass. This was at a time 
when the CIA was using waterboarding and other foreign techniques 
copied from the Soviets and other brutal regimes.


So how did the Justice Department go from secretly authorizing brutal 
interrogation techniques in 2002 and 2003 to withdrawing some of that 
authorization in 2004 to once again secretly reauthorizing such 
techniques in 2005? The answer, we now know, is that the White House 
overruled all those pesky officials who told them what they didn't want 
to hear--who told them that torture is wrong and illegal.

James Comey told his colleagues at the Justice Department that they 
would all be ashamed when the world eventually learned of these 
opinions. He was sidelined by the White House. Jack Goldsmith met the 
same fate. These were conservative Republicans and loyal patriots who 
were simply trying to uphold the law.

It is clear why President Bush wanted Alberto Gonzales to run the 
Justice Department--he wanted to install his personal lawyer, not a 
guardian of the rule of law. Mr. Gonzales approved these two memos and 
everything else the President needed for legal cover.

It would be bad enough if this administration had disgraced itself 
and this country by engaging in cruel and degrading treatment of 
detainees. It is worse still that it enlisted the Justice Department in 
an attempt to justify and cover up its activities.

Today's revelations give new urgency to the need for congressional 
action. I am the sponsor of a bill that responds to this need--the 
Torture Prevention and Effective Interrogation Act. The bill makes one 
basic reform: to apply the standards of the Army Field Manual to all 
U.S. Government interrogations, not just the Department of Defense 
interrogations.

When Congress passed the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005, we 
recognized that the Army Field Manual represents our best effort to 
develop an effective interrogation policy. The Senate voted 90 to 9 to 
apply its standards to all Department of Defense personnel. By enacting 
the Detainee Treatment Act, Congress tried to ensure that our 
Government honors its commitment to the basic rights enshrined in the 
Geneva Conventions, which protect both the values we cherish as a free 
society and the lives of our service men and women overseas.

We now know, however, that the 2005 Act falls short of our goals. We 
left open a loophole that undermines the basic safeguards against 
torture and cruel and degrading treatment. We applied the reform to the 
Department of Defense, but not to the CIA. And as today's New York 
Times story shows, it is the CIA that we need to be most worried about.

Last year, in the Military Commissions Act, Congress left it to the 
President to define by Executive Order the interrogation practices that 
would bind all government interrogators, including the CIA.

The President's Executive order took maximum advantage of this 
loophole. It is vague and fails to prohibit many of the most flagrant 
interrogation practices. Combined with these new OLC opinions that have 
just come to light, this Executive order makes clear that the President 
believes these interrogation practices to be perfectly acceptable.

The Torture Prevention and Effective Interrogation Act closes the 
loophole left open by the Detainee Treatment Act. It follows the 
warning of General Petraeus that brutal interrogation methods are both 
illegal and immoral, and that ''history shows that they also are 
frequently neither useful nor necessary.''

This bill is an opportunity to restate our commitment to the security 
and ideals of our country. It is an opportunity to repair some of the 
damage done to our international reputation by the Abu Ghraib scandal 
and the abuses at Guantanamo. It is an opportunity to restore our 
nation's role as a beacon for human rights, fair treatment, and the 
rule of law. And it is an opportunity to protect our brave servicemen 
and women from similar tactics.

It is a simple measure that is long overdue.

Once again, this morning, Americans and people all over the world are 
revolted by what they have learned about this administration's refusal 
to reject cruel and degrading treatment. It will be up to the next 
Attorney General to restore the Justice Department to integrity. It is 
up to Congress to restore the rest of the government to the principles 
of law and justice that make this country great.

Mr. President, I will make a brief comment on an item that I think 
needs addressing.

















 Chip Veto


Yesterday the President vetoed the CHIP program. I mentioned at that 
time that it was the most intolerable, inexplicable, and 
incomprehensible veto I have seen in the Senate. I think today the 
American people are beginning to understand why.

This is President Bush's quote, when he was Governor of Texas. This 
is from President Bush's Web site when he was Governor.




 Governor Bush and the Texas legislature worked together to 


 implement the CHIP program for more than 423,000 children. . 


 . .


Taking credit for the CHIP program in Texas when he was Governor. 
This is what he went on to say in 2004.




 America's children must also have a healthy start in life. 


 In a new term we will lead an aggressive effort to enroll 


 millions of poor children who are eligible but not signed up 


 for the Government's health insurance program. We will not 


 allow a lack of attention or information to stand between 


 these children and the health care they need.


We read that the President only yesterday had vetoed this program 
because, as he pointed out, he believed it was a government health 
insurance program, and his allies have called it socialized medicine. I 
was here in the Senate when we passed Medicare, and that was called 
socialized medicine. Those who called it socialized medicine were 
successful the first time, and then 9 months later we were successful 
in passing that program. It was in 1964, and it was passed in 1965. The 
intervening event was a Presidential election.

They said Medicaid was socialized medicine. They said the 
prescription drug program was a socialized program, and it was passed. 
They said the veterans health programs are socialized medicine 
programs.

We have found the President stated that Social Security, he believes, 
ought to be privatized--and that has been resisted by Democrats and 
Republicans--and that Medicare ought to be privatized. Let's make no 
mistake about it across this country: The President has now selected 
the CHIP program for the beginning of the privatization of these health 
programs and Americans ought to be very much aware--children today, 
seniors tomorrow, veterans the next day. Let's understand that.

Americans want practical solutions to these issues. The practical 
solution was the CHIP program. Even the CBO says if you are interested 
in ensuring uninsured children, the CHIP program is the way to go. The 
administration's own agency has stated that. Americans want the 
practical, not the ideological, which the President resorted to 
yesterday.

Finally, Americans want investment in America and American 
priorities. The No. 1 priority for Americans is American children, 
rather than the sands in Iraq--pouring billions and billions of dollars 
into the sands of Iraq. Americans want to invest in the children. That 
is what this debate is about. That is what this discussion is about, 
Republicans and Democrats coming together for practical resolution and 
decision on this issue of the CHIP program.

When we recess briefly now and return to our States, hopefully the 
American people are going to speak to their representatives and say: On 
this issue, do what is right for the children. Put children first. Put 
American children first and vote to override the veto.

I yield the floor.