# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `244fc35b623f002210e7fec09dda97c6`
`Ms. TSONGAS â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Ms. TSONGAS. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of the 
Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009. 
I want to thank Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member Hunter for their 
leadership on this legislation. As a new member of the House and of the 
committee, it has been a pleasure participating in the bipartisan and 
respectful process that both of you have created.

H.R. 5658 addresses our immediate readiness challenges while 
maintaining our commitment to modernization that will keep our country 
safe and deter threats in the future.

We are all in agreement that operations in Iraq and Afghanistan are 
having a severe impact on our readiness. This legislation puts us on 
track to restore our readiness and our capability to respond to 
emerging threats around the world. It also increases our capabilities 
in Afghanistan by providing performance standards for Provincial 
Reconstruction Teams, training and equipping the Afghan National 
Security Forces, and increasing the Commanders Emergency Response Fund. 
And this bill takes significant strides to improve the quality of life 
for our men and women in uniform and their families. H.R. 5658 includes 
a 3.9 percent pay increase. It rejects on a bipartisan basis the 
proposed increases in TRICARE fees and copays.

Finally, I appreciate that the committee included a provision that I 
have advocated for that would give flexibility to the Department of 
Defense to increase the loan repayment amount for medical personnel in 
the National Guard and Reserve.

Mr. Chairman, as my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee have 
stated, this is a good bill. It addresses the readiness needs of our 
military, keeps us on track for modernization to meet future threats, 
and takes care of our military personnel and their families. I urge my 
colleagues to support this bill.