# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `2454808bcc945fcea151dd633acdfef5`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask that my colleagues take note of the 
fact that the Defense appropriations legislation which is before us is 
critically important for our Nation and for close to 200,000 American 
servicemembers fighting wars in two foreign countries.

This bill includes salaries for our soldiers, a well-deserved pay 
raise for them. I am sure that is one of the reasons it received such 
an overwhelming vote in the House of Representatives. Mr. President, 
400 Members came forward to vote for this bill. It is an indication of 
bipartisan support for our soldiers, our men and women in uniform.

It includes money for training, for aircraft, ships, ammunition, 
humvees, and, yes, for a new generation of vehicles that will save the 
lives of many of our soldiers. These so-called MRAPs are much more 
heavily armed and safer vehicles. There is no reason to delay. The 
Senator from West Virginia made the point that there is $11 billion in 
this bill to start sending those vehicles to our troops so they will be 
safe and come home safe.

Our men and women in uniform across the world need this bill to pass. 
They do their duty without any hesitation. Can we do anything less?

There is a fundamental disagreement in this country about the war in 
Iraq, whether our troops should continue there, as the President would 
have, or whether we should start bringing them home. We have had many 
debates on that issue in this Chamber during the last year; there will 
be many more. But today this bill should not be a casualty of that 
disagreement in the Senate. This bill is about providing the vital 
resources our military needs to keep our country strong and safe.

Let me tell you, there is a part of this bill I had at least a small 
part in crafting, and I am very proud of it. It is called the Wounded 
Warriors Act. There were so many involved in it. I don't claim that it 
was my own exclusively, but each of us tried to put a provision in that 
would help our warriors coming home from battle be treated better and 
recover from their wounds more quickly.

This bill includes $70 million to fund the Wounded Warrior initiative 
that was included in the Defense authorization bill. That is 
legislation on which I worked. Having visited veterans hospitals and 
talked with so many disabled vets, I realized that money was 
desperately needed to improve treatment for traumatic brain injury and 
post-traumatic stress disorder and actively support our troops in 
transition between Active Duty and Veterans' Administration care.

This bill also has $980 million for equipment for the National Guard. 
In my hometown of Springfield, IL, is Camp Abraham Lincoln. If you go 
out to Camp Lincoln, there is a big parking lot. It is empty. It used 
to be filled with vehicles until 80 percent of the National Guard units 
in Illinois were deployed. They took that equipment overseas to fight 
the war. It was destroyed, run down, not worth returning. It has never 
been replaced. Our National Guard units in Illinois have about a third 
of the equipment they need. God forbid a crisis in our State or 
something that requires mobilization; they will be hard pressed because 
the equipment is not there.

This bill has $980 million for equipment for the National Guard. Most 
of our Guard units are lucky to have half the equipment they once had. 
This is a burden on them when it comes to training and responding when 
needed.

I have looked at our Guard and talked with our leaders there. They 
have only half the authorized rifles they need and less than half the 
authorized vehicles. Our States, every one of them, desperately need 
this equipment, and this bill provides almost $1 billion to meet that 
need. Why would we say no? Why would we wait?

Also included in this bill is desperately needed funding for 
veterans, the victims of the catastrophic wildfire season, and people 
who lost their homes because of Katrina.

This bill contains a continuing resolution which keeps the business 
of Government continuing as we work our way through this appropriations 
debate. Maybe there are some on the other side, people I have not met, 
who believe closing down our Government is a good thing. We certainly 
don't. The Democrats in the majority believe our Government should 
continue to function. Was it 12, 13 years ago when then-Speaker 
Gingrich decided he would just close down the Government to see if we 
would miss it? People such as Rush Limbaugh were crowing on the radio 
that if the Federal Government went away, nobody would notice. They 
noticed it in a hurry. There are vital functions that need to continue.

This bill contains a continuing resolution that keeps the lights on, 
keeps people working, keeps valuable services there for people across 
America and around the world. We want to pass this along with this 
Defense appropriations bill. This would fund our Government until 
December 14, next month, which gives us time to work on agreements on 
the rest of the appropriations bills.

We are operating under the spectre of a President who has threatened 
to veto 10 of the 12 appropriations bills, even though we put these 
bills together in a very bipartisan way, and they had overwhelming 
majority votes. Those appropriations bills aren't likely to become law 
in the near future, so the only responsible thing to do is to have this 
continuing resolution so Government funding will continue.

The President has said he will veto these bills because they are--all 
the bills, the appropriations bills--roughly $20 billion over his 
budget. The President has threatened to delay health care, money for No 
Child Left Behind, training for workers, even the National Institutes 
of Health, and even transportation because Congress restored many cuts 
he has made over the years--$20 billion, $25 billion. Sure, it is a 
significant sum of money, but it represents about 2 percent to 2/1/2/ 
percent of the total Federal budget.

A President who is arguing we can't afford $20 billion or $25 billion 
for America has asked us for $196 billion for Iraq--$196 billion for 
Iraq but we can't afford $20 billion for America? I don't follow it.

A strong America begins at home, investing in our people, our 
children, our communities, our neighborhoods, our towns, and our 
States--our economy--so businesses can grow and good jobs can be there. 
Why this President opposes these measures I can't understand. But we 
shouldn't let the business of Government grind to a halt while we work 
out that obvious difference. That is why the continuing resolution is 
so important.

I guess 2007 was a banner year at the White House. After 6 years of 
searching, after turning loose all of the agencies of the executive 
branch of Government, after bringing in the best investigators the 
President could find, after literally tearing the White House apart 
from one end to another, President George W. Bush, in the year 2007, 
discovered his veto pen. He had been looking for 6 years. He couldn't 
find it. He never used it. But then he found it in 2007, and I guess he 
decided this would be part of his relevancy campaign.

You may recall, Mr. President, he gave a speech and said: I have to 
do some things around here to continue to be relevant. Reuters 
announced today that 24 percent of the American people approve of the 
President's job in office. Someone in the White House, I am not sure 
who, has said to him: If you just start using this veto pen again, I 
think your numbers will go up. I think you will be relevant.



I think they are wrong because the President has used his veto pen 
for things that don't help our country. When we tried to change course 
in policy and direction in Iraq, the President used his veto pen and 
stopped us. When we tried to promote stem cell research to find cures 
for diseases, such as diabetes and heart disease and cancer, 
Parkinson's and Alzheimer's, he found that veto pen and used it to stop 
the research. He has used that pen to stop Children's Health Insurance, 
and he used it to try to stop an investment in America called the Water 
Resources Development Act.

Today, there was a historic vote on the Senate floor. I believe some 
79 Members, if I am not mistaken, voted to override the President's 
veto--many more than the 67 necessary. It was historic because that is 
only the 107th time in history this has occurred. The Senate, 
Republicans and Democrats, rejected the President's veto.

So the President continues to take advice and threaten to use that 
veto pen again. It is a newfound power that he ignored for 6 years as 
President. Not once did he find a single bill generated by a Republican 
Congress that he would veto, not one time. Now he can't find a bill 
generated by a Democratic Congress he wants to sign.

Well, the bills we pass in the Senate take bipartisan support. We 
don't have 60 votes on the Democratic side. We have 51. We need the 
help of our Republican friends to pass anything, and we have gotten 
that help. I hope the President will consider that when he threatens to 
veto appropriations bills with overwhelmingly positive, affirmative 
votes.

The continuing resolution assumes an increase of $2.9 billion for 
Veterans Affairs. This would allow the VA to spend at a greater rate, 
and they need to. If you had asked the Department of Veterans Affairs 7 
or 8 years ago what they would be doing in the year 2007, I am sure 
they would have said: Well, we will continue to meet our legal 
obligation for a lot of aging veterans who have come to us with the 
problems of aging men and women. But that is not their challenge today 
exclusively. They have a new challenge, with thousands of returning 
soldiers and sailors, marines and airmen, who come back broken in body 
and spirit and need the help of the Veterans' Administration. We give 
them money for that. That is in this bill.

Will Republicans stop this bill? Will they stop the $2.9 billion for 
the Veterans' Administration? How could they possibly justify that?

It also has $500 million emergency funding for the Forest Service and 
Bureau of Land Management for wildfires. You don't have to tell our 
colleagues from California what that is about. It is about the biggest 
migration in our Nation since the Civil War--people forced out of their 
homes because of the fires, many of their homes destroyed in the 
process.

The bill has $3 billion in emergency funding for the HUD Road Home 
Program for people whose homes were damaged and destroyed by Hurricanes 
Katrina and Rita. The Governor of Louisiana, Governor Blanco, came to 
see me, along with the mayor of New Orleans, Mr. Nagin, and they told 
me about this program, one that the Federal Government agreed to fund. 
It has been a program that has been widely subscribed and needs 
additional money to be completed. It is just for the people who have 
legitimate claims, and it gives them a chance to come home. It is about 
time the people in New Orleans had a chance to come home.

Mr. President, our country faces threats on many fronts. Our duty in 
Congress is to provide the authority and the funding for our military 
to be equipped and trained to meet those threats. I support this 
funding bill which gives our soldiers the tools they need to safeguard 
our Nation. To my friends on the Republican side of the aisle, as they 
ponder whether to support this bill, I hope they will understand 
funding our military at this moment in our history is critical; 
providing continuing resources for our Government to stay in business 
is the right thing to do.

Saying no to veterans at this moment is a bad decision. Saying no as 
well to the victims of fires is not defensible. And saying no to those 
people who have struggled and need a helping hand across America is not 
consistent with who we are and what we should be.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.