# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `25e3f9abeee8c5babbb91df7b37fc7d4`
`Mr. COLEMAN â€” 10 January 2007`

---


Mr. COLEMAN. Mr. President, having recently returned from another 
visit to Iraq serving as a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, I 
come to the floor this afternoon to express my views on the most 
pressing issue facing our country today: our path to success in Iraq. 
The Iraq Study Group recently stated the situation in Iraq is grave and 
deteriorating. When the current path isn't working, you have to be 
flexible. You have to shift. You have to make a change. And, clearly, 
in Iraq today we have to make a change. The President of the United 
States, on Friday, said the same thing.

In December I met with Iraqi political leaders, U.S. troops and their 
leaders, as well as our diplomats on the ground. Our conversations with 
this broad range of individuals helped me draw various conclusions that 
are key to evaluating the proposals currently being debated. In light 
of the President's upcoming announcement of his strategy for Iraq, I 
think it is important to share these conclusions.

It is easy to lose sight of the fact that we are in Iraq as part of a 
Global War on Terror. There is no question that Iraq has become the key 
battleground of this war. Failure cannot be an option in either the 
overall war on terror or in Iraq. As the President has correctly 
stated, this is the battle of this generation. With menacing regimes in 
Iran and Syria, we cannot dismiss the fact that a failed state in Iraq 
would lead to much more than chaos and collapse in that nation. It 
would destabilize a critical region of the world and, most alarmingly, 
would create a breeding ground for terrorists whose ambitions do not 
stop at Iraq's borders. Americans--all Americans--have a direct stake 
in winning this war.

We know the United States will be involved in the war on terror for 
the foreseeable future. The question is, How do we move forward in 
Iraq? How do we fight this war? And, where do we put our troops?

From my experience in Iraq, I know now, or at least I believe, that 
we are fighting it essentially on two fronts. The first is the war we 
intended to fight: a war against terrorists, primarily Sunni extremists 
and foreign jihadists linked to al-Qaida--foreign terrorists. The other 
war is a war between the Iraqis themselves: Shiite against Sunni, in a 
seemingly endless cycle of grisly violence. Our military must continue 
the battle against extremists and terrorists, but we have no business 
being caught in the crossfires of an Iraqi sectarian conflict.

The good news is we have had great success in fighting the war on 
terror, imposing crippling losses on the international jihadist network 
which today operates in Iraq. Indeed, during my visit in December with 
marines from Minnesota stationed in Anbar, they reported they were 
making great headway against the insurgency there. I am proud of their 
accomplishments, and I firmly believe these military victories directly 
enhance our security at home. But to secure the ground that these 
marines have cleared of insurgents in places such as Fallujah, they 
need Sunni police officers. They need Sunni members of the Iraqi Army. 
They need reconciliation between Sunni and Shia. So as we continue to 
fight the first war, the war against terrorists, we need also to 
address the second war, that of Iraqi against Iraqi.

The overall consensus I found in Iraq is that we will be unable to 
hold on to the ground we have gained on the first front without 
addressing the second front: Iraqi sectarian violence. This violence is 
spiraling rapidly and is undermining the success we have made against 
the terrorists. If the Iraqi security forces, both Army and police, are 
to someday soon take over the fighting of the insurgency from U.S. 
troops, it is clear that intergroup violence must be brought under 
control. The Iraqi security forces must include all Iraqis: Sunni, 
Shiite, Kurd, and others. To be certain, our efforts cannot succeed if 
sectarian hatred is not addressed at the highest level of the Iraqi 
Government immediately.

The only long-term solution for bringing stability to Iraq must be 
centered on national reconciliation. It is true that after decades of 
Sunni violence led by Saddam Hussein and his regime, the Shiites still 
have unaddressed grievances. But this does not call for, nor permit, 
neighborhood-by-neighborhood ethnic cleansing, nor a refusal to work 
together for the future of all Iraqis. Shiites may be able to win 
short-term victories through the use of violence, but in the long term 
they will not have a unified country if they continue to do so. Iraqi 
leaders should focus on reining in all sectarian groups under the 
umbrella of a national and inclusive political process. This is a 
solution that can only be led by the Iraqis themselves.

With no doubt, this sectarian violence was left to grow unchecked for 
far too long. Even so, it is not too late to get Iraq back to stable 
footing. But it will come from dialogue and political compromise 
enforced by a central government prepared to take on militias under the 
control of religious sects, clans, and even common criminals. We must 
get to the point where Iraqi citizens express their views through 
political channels instead of through violence. The Iraqis are the 
masters of their own destiny, and it is important that our strategy 
regard them as such.

Since my trip to Iraq in December, I have been calling for the Iraqi 
Government to establish a series of benchmarks that will diffuse the 
sectarian violence and stabilize the country politically and 
economically. These benchmarks would include an oil revenue-sharing 
agreement and economic assistance to areas that have been neglected in 
the past. The reality is not putting resources in Anbar Province 
because it is Sunni, and so as a result, what you get is a feeding of 
insurgency by the actions of a government that has not been prepared to 
address the issue of sectarian violence. We will be a better supporter 
of the Iraqi Government if we pressure them to create and adhere to 
these benchmarks rather than assuming that this fractured Government 
will take this on by themselves. I fear that up to this point the Iraqi 
leadership has not stepped up to the plate to make the difficult 
decisions that are necessary to pave the road for a political solution.

When I was in Iraq with Senator Bill Nelson from Florida, we met with 
the Iraqi National Security Adviser to Maliki, Dr. Rubaie, who 
contended that sectarian violence wasn't the main problem, but the 
problem was the foreign terrorists and was the Sunni insurgency. That 
is not the case. As a Senator responsible for looking after the best 
interests of my constituents and all Americans, I take seriously the 
responsibility of Iraqi political leaders to honor the sacrifices that 
are being made by American soldiers. I refuse to put more American 
lives on the line in Baghdad without being assured that the Iraqis 
themselves are willing to do what they need to do to end the violence 
of Iraqi against Iraqi. If Iraq is to fulfill its role as a sovereign 
and democratic state, it must start acting like one. It is for this 
reason that I oppose the proposal for a troop surge. I oppose the 
proposal for a troop surge in Baghdad where violence can only be 
defined as sectarian. A troop surge proposal basically ignores the 
conditions on the ground, both as I saw on my most recent trip and 
reports that I have been receiving regularly since my return. My 
consultations with both military and Iraqi political leaders confirms 
that an increase in troops in areas plagued by sectarian violence will 
not solve the problem of sectarian hatred. A troop surge in Baghdad 
would put more American troops at risk to address a problem that is not 
a military problem. It will put more American soldiers in the 
crosshairs of sectarian violence. It will create more targets. I just 
don't believe that makes sense.

Again, I oppose a troop surge in Baghdad because I don't believe it 
is the path to victory or a strategy for victory in Iraq. I recognize 
there are those who think otherwise. The Iraqi


Study Group, in their report, said that they could, however, support a 
short-term deployment, a surge of American combat forces to stabilize 
Baghdad or to speed up the training and equipping mission if the U.S. 
commander in Iraq determines that such standards would be effective.

I sat with the President with Democratic colleagues and Republican 
colleagues. I know that he has weighed this heavily, and I know he has 
looked at this issue for a long time. Apparently, he has come to the 
conclusion that, in fact, a troop surge would be helpful. I believe his 
comments will contain--hopefully contain--discussions about benchmarks 
and contain a commitment to do those things to rebuild the economy and 
create jobs so that we get rid of some of the underlying causes and 
frustrations that feed the insurgency. But the bottom line is, again, 
at this point in time, it is sectarian violence that I believe is the 
major issue that we face and more troops in Baghdad is not going to 
solve that problem.

As one of the final conclusions to share of my experience in Iraq, I 
would also like to emphasize the significant role of Iran in fomenting 
instabilities. Across the board, my meetings with Iraqi officials 
revealed that the Iranians are driving instability in Iraq by all means 
at their disposal. We had a hearing today in the Foreign Relations 
Committee and one of the speakers, one of the experts said that it may 
be, and it is probably clear that, the Iranians have a stake in 
American failure in Iraq and its stability in the region, and they feed 
on that. Indeed, there are credible reports that Iran is currently 
supplying money and weapons to both its traditional Shiite allies and 
its historic Sunni rivals, all for the purposes of ensuring a daily 
death toll of Iraqi citizens. It is clear the Iranians have concluded 
that chaos in Iraq is in their direct interest. Iran's role thus far, 
not to mention their pursuit of nuclear weapons, makes it hard to 
believe that they might suddenly become a constructive partner in the 
stabilization of Iraq.

I want to point out that my commitment to success in Iraq has not 
changed, nor my willingness to consider options that would 
realistically contribute toward our goals there. In my trips to Iraq, I 
have gone with an open mind as to what next steps could be taken as we 
work with the Iraqis to stabilize their country. I have said all along 
that the stakes of our mission in Iraq are such that failure is simply 
not an option, and I will only support proposals that will steer the 
United States toward victory. Abandoning Iraq today would precipitate 
an even greater surge of ethnic cleansing. It would, as I indicated 
before, precipitate an episode of instability and chaos in the region 
that would be in no one's interest. But my most recent trip to Iraq 
also reaffirmed to me that it is the Iraqis who must play the biggest 
role in any strategy for success. Our investment must be tied to their 
willingness to make the tough choices needed to pave the way to 
stability and for them to act on them.

I represent Minnesota, but if I represented Missouri, I think I would 
simply say to Maliki: Show me. Show me your resolve. Show me your 
commitment. Show me that you can, in fact, do the things that have to 
be done to deal with the sectarian violence, and then we can talk about 
enhancing and increasing the American effort. I haven't seen it. I 
don't see it today, and as such, I am certainly not willing to put more 
U.S. troops at risk.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I note the absence of a quorum.