# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `268dad9a2861b7ee76a69d6868170b63`
`Ms. HARMAN â€” 16 June 2009`

---


Ms. HARMAN. Mr. Speaker, we live in difficult times. Families 
continue to struggle to make ends meet. Two major American auto 
companies have crumbled before our eyes. And the US faces threats from 
groups and individuals across the globe who endeavor to do us harm.

Today, the bill before us--hopefully the last war supplemental 
funding measure of its kind--attempts to tackle at least one of these 
looming problems.

It finances the targeted strategy President Obama has crafted to 
minimize security threats to the United States and stabilize one of the 
most volatile regions of the world. The Supplemental's provisions on 
Afghanistan and Pakistan focus on preventing them from becoming failed 
states and safe havens for terrorists.

It is also a needed course-correction from the Bush Administration's 
policies in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan--one that makes ending 
corruption and improving governance, not projection of military force, 
the top priority.

The President has asked me--personally--to support this measure.

And I will support it for three reasons. First, this bill funds a 
very clear strategy in Afghanistan and limits the military mission 
there. Second, it provides the means to end the combat mission in Iraq 
and requires the Secretary of Defense to report on troop drawdown 
status there.

Third, there is no funding for US troops to Pakistan--only non-
military aid and counter-insurgency training to enable Pakistani forces 
to defeat the ominous Taliban threat inside their borders. It rightly 
focuses on programs that can and should succeed, rather than open-ended 
engagements that lack achievable goals.

Governance is the key--providing the Afghan and Pakistani people an 
alternative to the false promise of safety and security offered by 
insurgent groups who are in fact terrorizing local populations. Earning 
the trust of the people of those countries is crucial--reforming the 
police, cleaning up the court systems and targeting corruption are 
necessary to restore confidence.

One of the most important provisions contained in this bill is the 
requirement that the President submit a report to Congress within


the next year assessing the success of the Af/Pak policy--the extent to 
which the Afghan and Pakistan governments have supported 
counterinfurgency operations and governance reforms, and the ways in 
which they effectively governing the shared border region.

The oversight measures contained in this bill will ensure that the 
mission is focused and that our goals are met. Investments are specific 
and intended to funs a finite objective.

But this measure funds more than our engagements abroad. It provides 
$7.7 billion for H1N1 pandemic flu preparedness and response efforts--
most of which will be used to expand our ability to detect the virus 
and supplement vaccine stockpiles. While this pandemic has not been as 
extreme as initially expected, many scientists fear that H1N1 could 
recur--in a stronger form--next year. This is a strategic investment in 
the federal government's contingency planning efforts.

Finally, the legislation honors America's wounded warriors, providing 
funds for health and rehabilitation programs.

I have long opposed conducting US military operations ''off the 
books.'' President Obama is committed to ending this practice, which I 
believe is necessary to making sure our missions are effective and 
Americans can understand the real trade-offs involved.

Statement on Conference Report of HR 2346, FY 2009 War Supplemental 
Appropriations 15 June 2009