# COPS IMPROVEMENTS ACT
## `26bd9151538913cab529548e481d49ac`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. Presdient, this Congress has been making important 
efforts to show our support and commitment to our Nation's law 
enforcement officers. This week marks the 44th year that we have 
celebrated National Police Week. On May 1, the Senate passed a 
resolution sponsored by my colleague Senator Specter, the ranking 
member of the Judiciary Committee, and myself, marking May 15, 2007 as 
National Peace Officers Memorial Day. Earlier this week, I was honored 
to participate in that ceremony here at the Capitol hosted by the Grand 
Lodge of the Fraternal Order of Police and its auxiliary. As we do each 
year, we gathered with the families of those who lost loved ones in 
2006 while serving in the line of duty. We commemorated their sacrifice 
to keep us safe and secure.

On Tuesday, the House passed H.R. 1700, the COPS Improvements Act of 
2007, by an overwhelming vote of 381 to 34. The Senate Judiciary 
Committee has voted to report the Senate's companion bill which I 
joined with Senator Biden to introduce. Despite tremendous support for 
this legislation, a Republican objection to passing the House bill has 
prevented this important legislation from passing the Senate. I am 
disappointed that Senate action on these vital improvements to the COPS 
Program has stalled, and I hope the objection is withdrawn so that the 
Senate can pass H.R. 1700.

This legislation would reauthorize and expand the ability of the 
Attorney General to award grants aimed at increasing the number of cops 
on the streets and in our schools. To accomplish this goal, this bill 
would authorize $600 million in designated funds to hire more officers 
to improve and expand community policing, which will in turn help 
reduce crime. In Vermont, for example, passage of the COPS Improvements 
Act would likely mean that 110 new officers would be put on the beat. 
Additionally, the COPS Improvements Act would authorize $200 million 
annually for district attorneys to hire community prosecutors and $350 
million annually for technology grants.

The COPS Program has been a resounding success, and the improvements 
to the program that are contained in this bill would help our State and 
local law enforcement agencies cope with the substantial reductions in 
funding they have endured in recent years. Despite these reductions in 
funding, law enforcement officers have an increased role in homeland 
security responsibilities. H.R. 1700 includes ''Terrorism Cops,'' 
officers who are focused specifically on homeland security, and would 
also include the Troops to Cops Program to help soldiers returning from 
the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan. In short, this legislation 
gives our law enforcement officers the tools they need to reduce crime 
and protect our citizens.

The Government Accountability Office has reported that between 1998 
and 2000, COPS hiring grants were responsible for 200,000 to 225,000 
less criminal acts--one-third of which were violent. With violent crime 
on the rise and our State and local law enforcement officers stretched 
thin with new responsibilities, it is essential that we pass this 
legislation. I urge those on the other side of the aisle to withdraw 
their objections and support our State and local law enforcement 
agencies by passing H.R. 1700.
