# BIPARTISAN CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION TO NATO PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLY  MEETINGS
## `274e0b1bf9035e7da901f1336d0183d7`
`Mr. TANNER â€” 12 June 2009`

---


Mr. TANNER. Madam Speaker, during the period May 22-31, 2009, I led a 
bipartisan House delegation to NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA) 
meetings in Oslo, Norway and to additional bi-lateral meetings in 
Helsinki, Finland and Stockholm, Sweden. The co-chair of the NATO PA 
delegation is the Hon. John Shimkus. The delegation also included 
Representatives Jo Ann Emerson, Dennis Moore, John Boozman, Mike Ross, 
David Scott, Kendrick Meek, Jeff Miller, Ben Chandler, Mike Turner and 
staff. The NATO PA delegation had a highly successful trip in which a 
wide range of political, economic and security issues on NATO's agenda, 
as well as issues involving the U.S.-Finland and U.S.-Sweden bi-lateral 
relationships, were examined. Accompanying the delegation on the visits 
to Finland and Sweden was Mr. David Hobbs, Secretary General of the 
NATO Parliamentary Assembly, who provided invaluable assistance with 
respect to Finland and Sweden's participation in the NATO PA and issues 
related to their cooperation with NATO in numerous Alliance operations.

The NATO Parliamentary Assembly consists of parliamentarians from all 
28 NATO member states. The NATO PA provides a unique forum for elected 
officials to analyze and debate issues that the NATO leadership 
discusses in Brussels. In addition to the 28 member parliaments, 
parliamentarians from countries such as Russia, Georgia, Afghanistan, 
and others also participate in the sessions as associate states or 
observers. Through these sessions, delegates have the opportunity to 
learn first-hand the views and concerns that other countries have over 
the key security issues of the day. An invaluable aspect of the 
meetings is the chance to meet and come to know members of parliaments 
who play important roles in their own countries in shaping the security 
agenda that their governments pursue at NATO. These contacts can endure 
through a career, and can provide an invaluable private avenue for 
insights into each ally's particular views on an issue.

In early April, NATO celebrated its 60th anniversary at a summit in 
Strasbourg, France and Kehl, Germany. The key issues on the agenda of 
the Alliance included the broader issue of the future of NATO and more 
specific issues including relations with Russia, energy security, 
missile defense, the conflict in Afghanistan, and emerging challenges 
such as piracy and cyber security. Each of these issues was also on the 
NATO PA agenda in Oslo and many were vigorously debated by the 
parliamentarians. Relations with Russia and the new strategy towards 
Afghanistan and Pakistan were two of the issues that dominated the 
session. Many members of the Alliance questioned whether Russia has 
begun to implement an increasingly assertive security policy including 
efforts to intimidate neighboring states, through the threat of force. 
There was also concern expressed that Russia would continue to use its 
energy supplies as a political lever to influence European policy. It 
was clear from our meetings that not only the United States and NATO, 
but the European Union as well, are concerned about Moscow's posture on 
a variety of issues. And, while there were differences of opinion over 
how to structure future relations between NATO and Russia and the NATO 
PA and the Russian delegates to the Assembly, most felt that dialogue 
between NATO, the NATO PA, and Russia was important and should 
continue. Many delegates welcomed the U.S. commitment to a new, 
constructive relationship with Moscow and expressed hope that through 
those promising relations, Russia's attitude toward NATO could become 
more positive. On Afghanistan, there was continued support for the ISAF 
mission among the allies and a willingness to provide the additional 
civilian and financial support necessary for the reconstruction effort 
there. However, we did detect an undercurrent of concern among some 
allies that through the commitment of 21,000 additional U.S. troops to 
Afghanistan and the replacement of U.S./ISAF Commander, General 
McKiernan, the process of the ''Americanization'' of the war was 
underway and that NATO could be pushed aside by the United States. Our 
delegation was clear that this is not the case and that NATO's role in 
Afghanistan continues to be a critical one that needs to be carried out 
in an effective and efficient manner.

Before the opening sessions of the Assembly's plenary the U.S. 
delegation received a detailed briefing from the new U.S. Ambassador to 
NATO, Ivo Daalder, who had been in his new role for four days. He 
prepared us for the nuances involved in some of the issues that would 
be debated during the NATO PA sessions, particularly regarding Russia 
and NATO's on-going role in Afghanistan. In addition to the briefing by 
Ambassador Daalder, we also had the opportunity to meet with the new 
Deputy Chief of Mission to NATO, Mr. John Heffern who represented the 
United States at the joint NATO PA/North Atlantic Council (NAC) session 
at the conclusion of the plenary. Another highlight was a private 
meeting our delegation held with NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop 
Scheffer who was attending his last NATO Parliamentary Assembly session 
as Secretary General. He gave an overview of the most critical 
challenges confronting the alliance and thanked the U.S. delegation for 
its continued support for NATO. Later he addressed the NATO PA's 
plenary session. The Foreign Minister of Norway, Jens Stoltenberg also 
addressed the plenary and spoke about the continued importance of the


Alliance and the need for a clear direction for NATO's future. The 
Assembly also received a mixed report on current conditions in 
Afghanistan from Mr. Kai Eide, the head of the United Nations 
Assistance Mission in Afghanistan. Mr. Eide stressed the need for a 
sustained commitment of assistance from the international community. We 
also heard comments from the Speakers of the Albanian and Croatian 
Parliaments on their nation's status as the newest members of the 
Alliance.

Over two days of the NATO PA session, intense meetings of the 
Assembly's committees took place. There are five NATO PA committees. In 
each, parliamentarians presented reports on issues before the Alliance. 
The reports were debated by all members of the committee who often made 
counter-arguments or suggestions for amending a report. Members of the 
U.S. delegation were present and active in each committee meeting.

The Political Committee heard two very interesting presentations. One 
on the future relevancy of NATO by Jonas Gahr Store, Minister of 
Foreign Affairs of Norway. A second presentation on Iran generated some 
interesting questions and debate. The Committee received presentations 
on three reports, one from our colleague, Mike Ross who was a 
rapporteur for a report on possible transatlantic cooperation on 
Pakistan. Mr. Ross's presentation was well received by the Committee. 
Other reports debated included ''Resetting Relations with Russia'' that 
featured several interesting comments from the Russian delegates, and 
''NATO's relationship with Georgia'' that included a discussion on the 
recent Russia-Georgia conflict. There were still differences of opinion 
on who actually was responsible for starting the war in Georgia and how 
to deal with Georgia's aspirations for eventual membership in NATO.

The Committee on the Civil Dimension of Security is currently chaired 
by our colleague, Jo Ann Emerson. The Committee heard three interesting 
presentations. One covered civil-military relations in Afghanistan and 
another attempted to discuss how NATO could best communicate the 
importance of the Alliance and its missions to the general populations 
of the alliance members. There was also a very interesting presentation 
on the food-security nexus by Josette Sheeran, Executive Director of 
the United Nations World Food Program. The Committee then debated a 
report on the growing threat of piracy to regional and global security. 
Our colleague, David Scott, who had recently visited Somalia, offered 
several comments on the relationship between the unstable political and 
economic situation in Somalia and the growing use of Somalia as a base 
for pirate activity. A report on the current political situation in 
Moldova was also presented.

The Defense and Security Committee heard two reports on NATO's 
ongoing operations in Afghanistan, including a report by NATO's senior 
civilian representative in Afghanistan, Ambassador Fernando Gentilini. 
The Committee also received a report on the need for NATO to reinforce 
its mission of territorial defense. Our colleague John Shimkus 
countered the idea that Afghanistan was becoming an ''American'' war by 
pointing out that the United States' new Afghanistan/Pakistan strategy, 
which does include additional U.S. military forces, was developed in 
part with European input.

The Economics and Security Committee debated three reports, including 
one on food prices and their implications for security and another on 
energy production in Central Asia and its potential contribution to 
transatlantic energy security. The Committee also had a long discussion 
on a third report that addressed the global financial crisis and its 
impact on member nations. In that discussion, a number of members 
suggested that it would be useful to explore how the financial crisis 
was impinging on national defense budgets in allied countries. The 
Committee also heard presentations on the security aspects of food-
related crises, global energy market trends, and managing defense 
budgets in times of global recession.

Finally, the Science and Technology Committee heard three reports, 
including one particularly interesting report on climate change and its 
relationship to national security. Another addressed the current 
efforts being used to combat the spread of weapons of mass destruction. 
A third report provided a look at the resurgence of nuclear power as a 
source of clean energy.

On Tuesday, the final day of the plenary, the general assembly had 
the extraordinary opportunity to hear a presentation from the NATO 
Secretary General in his last address to the Assembly and to 
participate in a formal meeting with the North Atlantic Council (NAC) 
in which the Ambassadors to NATO of all 28 Alliance members answered 
questions from the delegates.

Madam Speaker, as you know, the NATO PA Plenary session also happened 
to be held over our own Memorial Day. For the members of the U.S. 
delegation, the highlight of our visit to Oslo was the opportunity to 
honor the men and women of our armed forces who made the ultimate 
sacrifice on behalf of their country. As it happened, a U.S. Navy 
warship was able to make a port call in Oslo that served as the venue 
for a Memorial Day observance. For that, I wish to thank Admiral 
Charles Leidig, Commander Ed Recavarren, Assistant U.S. Naval Attache 
in Oslo, the ship's Captain, Michael Feyedelem and the entire ship's 
crew for welcoming us aboard for the memorial service. I also wish to 
thank U.S. Ambassador to Norway, Benson Whitney, for hosting the 
reception for our delegation, the ship's crew, the Mayor of Oslo, and 
other dignitaries to share this special moment with us. The members of 
our delegation were also able to visit with sailors and marines whose 
stateside homes included many of the states represented by Members of 
our delegation.

In sum, Madam Speaker, the spring session of the NATO Parliamentary 
Assembly in Oslo was a success and as President of the Assembly, I took 
pride in the deliberations and participation of the delegates from all 
28 members nations and our associate and observer members. For Members 
of the House or Senate interested in reading the Committee reports or 
presentations mentioned in this statement, they are all available on 
the NPA web site at www.nato-pa.int. I also want to take this 
opportunity to again thank U.S. Ambassador Whitney, our control 
officer, Auden McKernan, and all of the fine men and women of our 
embassy in Oslo for the wonderful job they did assisting the 
delegation.

Following the NATO PA plenary, the U.S. delegation traveled to 
Bergen, Norway. Norway was celebrating the 100th anniversary of the 
Norwegian submarine fleet and a U.S. submarine had visited Bergen as 
part of that celebration. The U.S. delegation was given a tour of the 
submarine and an informal briefing on the cooperation between the 
Norwegian and U.S. navies. The delegation would like to thank Commander 
Ed Recavarren, Scott Sommers, our Bergen control officer and U.S. 
Defense Attache in Oslo, Captain Russell Smith, for their assistance in 
making this visit a successful one.

After departing Norway, the delegation flew to Helsinki, Finland for 
bi-lateral meetings with government and parliamentary representatives. 
On Wednesday, after a country team briefing given by our Charge in 
Helsinki, Thaddeus Plosser, our Control Officer, Scott Brandon and 
other staff, we were hosted for a roundtable discussion by the Chairmen 
of the Committees of Foreign Affairs and Defense. Other committee 
members participated, including Johannes Koskinen, the Deputy Speaker 
of the Finnish Parliament and head of Finland's delegation to the NATO 
Parliamentary Assembly. The discussions covered a number of issues 
including Finland's carefully managed relationship with Russia. Finland 
and Russia share an 800 mile border, fought two wars, and experience 
close to 8 million border crossings each year. Russia is Finland's 
largest trading partner and primary energy supplier, including 100% of 
Finland's natural gas supplies. The Finns seem surprisingly at ease 
with their ''complex and unpredictable'' neighbor and do not see a 
''Georgia-type'' threat from Russia.

The Finns pursue their security interests through the EU, Nordic 
defense cooperation with Sweden, Norway, and Denmark, and through close 
cooperation with NATO. While there is growing support among some in the 
government for possible future NATO membership, the majority of the 
general public is not yet in favor of such a decision. Finland has been 
active in Afghanistan (currently 100 troops, soon to reach 200), and 
participates in the Swedish-led Provincial Reconstruction Team (PRT) in 
northern Afghanistan. Other issues discussed included the current 
global economic and financial crisis which has hit Finland, climate 
change, and cooperation on issues involving the ''high north'' and the 
arctic.

Our delegation also held policy discussions with representatives of 
the government, including the Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry 
of Foreign Affairs (MFA), the principle policy advisor to the Prime 
Minister, the Deputy Director of the Political Department in the MFA, 
the head of the office for North American affairs at the MFA, and the 
Deputy Director at the Ministry of Defense. Again, a wide range of 
issues including Russia, NATO, and the economy were discussed.

On May 28, our delegation traveled to Stockholm, Sweden for bi-
lateral meetings. The visit to Sweden was also important as the Swedes 
will take over the rotating presidency of the European Union on July 1, 
2009. We were met by U.S. Charge, Robert Silverman and control officer, 
Jonas Wechsler who briefed the delegation on relations between Sweden 
and the United States. That evening we were warmly welcomed at a 
reception at the Ambassador's residence that included guests from the 
government of Sweden, the Parliament, and others. Lively discussions 
followed on the new U.S. administration and its


views on transatlantic relations, the differences between the European 
and U.S. views of the world, the future role of NATO, relations with 
Russia, and the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The next day, the delegation met with Sten Tolgfors, the Minister of 
Defense for Sweden. The Minister briefed us on Sweden's global outlook, 
their participation with NATO in the Balkans and Afghanistan (they have 
290 troops and lead a PRT in the north), Russia, and the reforms they 
have instituted within the defense establishment, including the 
decision to pursue an all-volunteer professional military (they, like 
the Finns, have a conscript military). Sweden, like Finland, does 
entertain the possibility of future NATO membership but the Minister 
told the delegation that currently the parliament is split on the idea 
and so it is not on the government's current agenda. The delegation 
then proceeded to a working lunch hosted by Ms. Karin Enstrom, head of 
the Swedish delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and attended 
by other parliamentarians. The discussion was lively and covered the 
entire spectrum of U.S.-Swedish relations. Following lunch, the 
delegation met with State Secretary Frank Belfrage from the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs. Discussions centered on Russia, Afghanistan, and 
Sweden's upcoming presidency of the European Union. One of Sweden's 
priorities will be climate change and preparing the EU's positions for 
the Copenhagen Conference on climate change that will be held in 
December. The Secretary expressed his hope that the United States and 
EU will work closely together on this issue and to help forge a 
consensus on the follow-on efforts to the Kyoto Climate agreement.

Madam Speaker, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly provides a unique 
opportunity for Members of Congress to engage in serious discussions on 
critical issues with our colleagues from other NATO member states, 
associate and observer states. I believe our delegation, and thus this 
Congress, benefits greatly from the information we exchange and the 
personalities we meet during these meetings. I look forward to our next 
NATO PA session in November in Edinburgh, Scotland.

In conclusion, I would like to again acknowledge the hard work and 
dedication of our Embassy staffs in Oslo, Helsinki, and Stockholm, and 
the men and women of the U.S. Navy vessels we visited while in Norway. 
I especially want to thank our entire military escort group from the 
United States Air Force, including the pilots. Our diplomatic corps and 
military personnel provide a quiet but invaluable service in ensuring 
our safety and this group of diplomats, servicemen and women was no 
exception. I thank them for their hard work and their dedication to 
duty.
