# THE FRESHMEN CLASS OF THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `27812e2765f99dd6aecf1ddd46eba158`
`Mr. HODES â€” 18 June 2008`

---


Mr. HODES. Thank you. And what strikes me is as you recite the litany 
of terrible tragedies, natural disasters, or unnatural disasters, that 
have struck the world, my district underwater in various parts of it, 
as yours has been in the last 5 years, with unprecedented floods, the 
floods around our Nation, hurricanes, Katrina, in Burma, Indonesia, 
around the world, clearly, the world's climate is changing.

What strikes me as radical is to attack the notion that global 
warming is here. What seems radical to me is not to accept that we're 
going to need to make the kind of transition that seems evident that we 
will have to make from a fossil fuel past to a new energy future. And 
in the middle of all this, how convenient it is at summertime with 
people in pain from rising gas prices, caused by lots of things, to 
say, for my friends on the other side of the aisle, it's those 
Democrats, if only they would let us drill, if only those Democrats 
would let us drill, everything would be fine. If only we could drill in 
ANWR. If only the Democrats weren't stopping us from drilling, gas 
prices would come down.

Let me point out that since the 1990s, the Federal Government has 
consistently encouraged the development of its oil and gas resources, 
and the amount of drilling on Federal lands has steadily increased 
during that time. The amount of drilling on Federal lands has steadily 
increased.

Now that includes the period of time in which the Democrats have had 
the majority in Congress. Federal lands have been open to the oil 
companies. They have leases. The environmental permitting is done. As 
you pointed out, they haven't been drilling, although the number of 
permits has been going up. In fact, we would call it an explosion in 
Federal permits to drill for oil on Federal lands, a resource for all 
the people which, through the wisdom of the Federal Government, the 
Federal Government is allowed to be drilled on in the environmentally 
proper ways.

In fact, 5 years ago, there were 3,802 permits to drill, and in 2007 
there were 7,561 permits issued to drill. We're not stopping drilling. 
We're not stopping drilling. What we are talking about, though, is 
truth.

And one of the questions that you have to ask is, so where is the 
drilling getting us? What effect will the drilling have, has the 
drilling had, on gas prices? Well, if the President's answer is we want 
to drill more, if my friends across the aisle's answer is, oh, drill 
more, the more you drill, the lower the gas prices will be, then let's 
at least first take a look at that claim that more drilling means lower 
gas prices.

In fact, between 1999 and 2007, when the number of drilling permits 
issued for development of public lands increased, as you said, by 361 
percent, gasoline prices have also risen dramatically. The chart to my 
left shows emphatically, categorically, with no room for argument, that 
more drilling, more permits, doesn't equal lower gas prices. When you 
look at this chart and you start down here in the corner that I'm 
pointing to, we have the price of gas along this side. I'm pointing to 
here. The years are along the bottom. We see in red, the bars are 
drilling permits issued. In blue, we see the number of wells drilled. 
And the green line is the price of gas. So we're showing all three 
components of the question I asked: Does more drilling lower gas 
prices? Because if it doesn't, then the President's argument to drill 
in ANWR holds no water. The complaints of the minority that we're 
somehow stopping progress, we are the fault for keeping gas prices 
high, holds no water. And we're going to have to look for other enemies 
to point the finger at and other solutions for our energy.



So let's take just a quick look. Without going through it all, what 
this trend clearly shows, as you can see, are the permits issued. This 
starts in 1994 and goes up to 2007. As you can see, in the early years, 
with the red bars, there are more permits issued than there is drilling 
because, first, you have to issue the permits before you drill on it.

Then by about 1999, after we've issued permits from 1994, 1995, 1996, 
1997--here we are in 1998 and 1999--what we're seeing is that the 
number of wells drilled has caught up and has surpassed the number of 
permits issued, and it's relatively stable through there.

Then starting in the year 2000, we're going to see that the number of 
wells drilled is declining. As you pointed out, the oil companies are 
getting permits. They're buying up leases. They're holding onto the 
supply, but they're not drilling wells, not because there aren't the 
permits issued, not because they couldn't drill but because of some 
other reason. Now, let's remind ourselves that they're also making, in 
these last years here, record profits while their drilling on public 
lands available to them is lower than the permits issued.

Now let's take a look at the price of gas. Notice how the price of 
gas basically tracks these lines. So it shows more permits, more 
drilling, higher prices of gas. More permits, more drilling, higher 
prices of gas. The argument that if we simply open up ANWR to drill 
will somehow lower the price of gas is absolutely wrong. It just 
doesn't hold water.

What is so interesting to me is that this is a, theoretically, free 
market economy, and this country has always stood for free markets with 
reasonable regulation because, as Abraham Lincoln--a good Republican--
said, the purpose of government is to do what the free markets cannot 
or will not do so well for themselves.

In our free market economy, if the oil companies tapped the 68 
million


Federal acres of leased land, it could generate an estimated 4.8 
million barrels of oil a day. That is what is available to them now 
under lease with the environmental permits done. 4.8 million barrels of 
oil a day is six times what ANWR would produce at its peak in the year 
2025. It's available to the oil companies today. Yet, somehow, the 
President and our colleagues want to open ANWR, which will take 20 
years to get done and will reduce the price, theoretically, by 1.8 
cents. It simply doesn't hold water.

The fact is that 80 percent of the oil available on the Outer 
Continental Shelf is in regions that are already open to leasing, but 
the oil companies, in their wisdom, haven't decided it's worth their 
time to drill there either. They have the leases. They have the 
permits, but they don't want to drill there. So we have the Arctic 
National Wildlife Refuge, a small place up there in Alaska where the 
caribou are wild, where wildlife flourishes, where it's tough to get 
the oil out of there because you've got to build a pipeline forever. We 
have onshore Federal lands available to the oil companies. We have 
offshore lands available to the oil companies. They're not drilling. 
They want more leases. It sounds kind of like grab and greed to me. 
Grab and greed.

We're a nation that has, perhaps, 2 percent of the world's supply of 
oil. We use 24 percent of the world's supply of oil. There is a 
disconnect there. We need to find new solutions because the bottom line 
is we cannot drill our way out of an energy situation in which foreign 
countries, many of them unfriendly to us and multinationals who are 
making record profits, control our supply of oil. It has had disastrous 
consequences for our foreign policy because now you read the various 
evidence that's coming out about the reason we went to war in Iraq.

I just finished the book of President Bush's spokesman, Scott 
McClellan, called ''What Happened,'' which is on the reason we went to 
war. What is very interesting is that, when you read the passages of 
the discussions in the White House about why we went into Iraq and Vice 
President Cheney's concerns about oil, many of the fears that people 
have seem to be clarified about the reasons we went to war in Iraq.

Now, I understand the motivation that says we need oil and that we 
need to secure our supplies and that we're going to use our 
geopolitical power and our military might to make sure we have the 
energy, but the bottom line is, when our energy future runs our foreign 
policy instead of our foreign policy and our energy future being tied 
together for our independence, we're at great risk. Here we are in 
2008, stuck in a quagmire of a war with a huge debt. We have a deficit 
with China. Our gas prices are soaring. There is no way to drill our 
way out of the solution, and so we're going to talk about some more 
facts, some more truth and some of the things we're doing both to deal 
with the current issues and what we're doing for the future of this 
country.

I'll yield back to you, Mr. Hall.