# RESTORING AMERICAN FINANCIAL STABILITY ACT OF 2010
## `27d9ea7d4de92394bf46431c82351ca8`
`Mr. DODD â€” 14 May 2010`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, I want to share some thoughts, if I can for 
a couple of minutes, on one of the proposals that will be coming up, I 
think, next week on the bill.

Again, I want to express my gratitude to all of our colleagues for 
the way in which this debate has been conducted. Contrary to what many 
people may think about the Senate, we are capable of having a full-
throated debate, one filled with emotion and passion about strongly 
held views, and yet also respect each other to allow for the debate to 
go forward and amendments to be considered and voted up and down.

I think we have done that now some 33 or 34 times over the last 6 or 
7 legislative days. I know there is much more to be done in the coming 
days before we conclude our consideration of the Wall Street reform 
bill. But it is a reflection of how this institution can operate and 
how we should operate, in my view, on a matter of this import.

So it is not only important about what we are doing in terms of 
reforming the financial system of our Nation, but I would argue in a 
way history may never record it as such, but also how we conducted this 
debate on an important issue. It may not make the headlines, but it is 
very important for the integrity of this institution and as a model for 
how important comprehensive legislation can be handled.

I know it is cumbersome. I know it can take a long time. There are 
delays that occur during consideration of matters in the Senate. But 
that is as it was intended by our forefathers, in a sense, to have an 
institution where there would be the ample opportunity for debate, 
including unlimited debate by any one single Member, contrary to the 
other Chamber that comprises the Congress where they are limited to 5 
minutes, and the majority rules allow for matters and insists upon the 
majority prevailing.

In this institution the rules favor the minority, including a 
minority of one that can engage in extended debate. So we are different 
in this institution and with good reason. If they had wanted a 
unicameral system of one body, where just majority rules would prevail 
every time, they would have created it. In fact, they tried to.

But I take some pride in the fact that it was two Senators from 
Connecticut, Oliver Ellsworth and Roger Sherman, who in the 
consideration of the Constitutional Convention--when all was about to 
fail over a contest between large States and small States; they were 
fearful that large States, having the dominant number of members in the 
Halls of Congress, would be overwhelmed and their interests be 
disregarded because they did not have the votes to counter it--so 
Oliver Ellsworth and Roger Sherman came up with the idea of creating a 
bicameral system, one wherein one body's membership would be made up 
based on population, the size of the State, the number of seats it 
would hold, and this body, regardless of our size, would have equal 
representation.

So the smallest of our States, States such as Wyoming with a few 
hundred thousand people, has two Senators. The State of California, 
with millions of people, has two Senators. So regardless of size, 
regardless of economic influence or other matters, we are all coequals, 
at least as far as our States are represented and the opportunity as 
well for minority voices to be heard, not overwhelmed with the tyranny 
of the majority which can happen.

So there is a value to the existence of the Senate, and we are slower 
to act. It can be frustrating, as my colleague and Presiding Officer 
has come to appreciate, and as a former Speaker of his own State 
legislative body, I know he appreciates how difficult that can be as a 
leader in trying to move business and product along so that matters can 
be considered.

So I say all of that as a backdrop because in recent years, recent 
months, in fact, we have been bogged down, frustrated. There has been a 
lot of obstructionism that has gone on to prohibit us to move forward 
on important matters. But at least in this case, up to now at this 
point anyway, we have conducted this debate on financial reform in a 
way that I think our forbearers would have appreciated.

Members have had ample opportunity. The rules are still there for 
them to use to make sure they can be


heard in these matters. But, again, I emphasis that while the subject 
matter of our consideration certainly is tremendously important, the 
means and the manner by which we have conducted debate also has value.

It is with that backdrop that I want to again thank my colleagues, 
Democrats and Republicans. I thank majority leader Harry Reid because 
without his insistence as the leader, this could not happen. I think 
the fact that he has demonstrated as a leader the ability to move this 
institution in a way that allows for equal participation and debate is 
a great tribute to the leadership he has demonstrated as majority 
leader of the Senate over many years now.

This morning I would like to concentrate, if I could, on one subject 
matter, as I mentioned, that will probably come up in the next few days 
when we reconvene at the first part of next week. That has to do with a 
very important part of this bill, one in which the Presiding Officer 
has demonstrated great interest, and I have a tremendous amount of 
interest in as well.

It deals with the issue of establishing, for the first time in our 
Nation's history, an actual bureau, a division, that is designed 
specifically to protect individual consumers from what can happen to 
them when financial matters put them in a desperate condition, whether 
it be on credit cards, home sales, all sorts of other financial 
activities. There has been no place that actually consumers' interests 
are paramount.

There are seven agencies in the Federal Government that have 
divisions that deal with consumer protection. But the history has been 
one of either malfeasance, inaction, uninterest or lack of interest. 
What we are creating is a place where the dominant principal, sole 
interest will be to watch for consumer interests.

One of the debates we are going to have is whether a major area of 
financial interest will be exempted from the consideration of the 
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and that is in the area of 
financing an automobile.

I know this has been one of the most heavily lobbied parts of the 
whole Wall Street reform bill. I certainly understand that many of us 
know our auto dealers back home make important contributions to our 
communities. I said in my remarks the other day, I have worked very 
closely with the car dealers of my State over recent past years and 
months.

We have had major debates about the automobile industry and the 
rights of auto dealers, the cash for clunkers bill, to try to increase 
sales, which is something I was deeply involved in to try to make it 
possible for our automobile dealers and manufacturers to get back on 
their feet.

So I take a back seat to no one in my concern and care about the work 
they do, the economic vitality they provide for our community, the jobs 
that get created as a result of their efforts. My debate and argument 
is not with the auto dealers; it is over the financing of automobiles 
and how that occurs, and whether consumers are going to be protected in 
what for most Americans is the second largest purchase any of us ever 
make.

Our home, if we have one, is the most important. Then, secondly, is 
the purchase of an automobile. Most Americans, other than having a 
401(k) for retirement, do not deal with the stockbrokers every day, are 
not buying or trading or engaging in sophisticated financial 
instruments. That is limited to a few of the 300 million in our 
population.

But you only need to get up in the morning and head off to work, and 
you know that everybody needs an automobile--one might argue maybe too 
many. But, nonetheless, that is a separate debate. So that purchase of 
an automobile is critically important to people. It is a critical part 
of our economy.

But it is over the financing of automobiles, in certain areas, that I 
have great concern and do not want to see consumers disadvantaged. So 
it is in that spirit that my support and admiration for people who work 
in that sector of our economy, to say to you today that those 
responsible corporate citizens, small businesses, have nothing to fear 
from this legislation whatsoever.

They conduct their business admirably, ethically, morally. They treat 
their customers as if they were members of their family. That is the 
overwhelming majority of people who engage in the sale of automobiles. 
But like all statutes and laws, they are not designed necessarily for 
the majority of people who operate within the law and act and operate 
ethically and morally.

We also understand there are those who take advantage of people, and 
so we craft legislation to protect all of us against those abuses that 
can occur. As President Obama said on April 22:




 Unless your business model depends on bilking people, there 


 is little to fear with this legislation at all.


In fact, there is nothing to fear. In a challenge to this Congress, 
Michael Hayden, from the Military Officers Association of America, said 
to us the following:




 You have an opportunity to do something about unscrupulous 


 auto dealers. The above-board firms should not have a problem 


 with the Consumer Financial Product Protection Bureau.


They should not, and let me explain why briefly this morning. First, 
the Wall Street reform legislation as being considered by the Senate 
has gone more than halfway to meet the concerns originally raised by 
financing of automobiles. The bill, and let me enumerate, eliminates 
assessments on the auto dealers. Unlike other financial 
institutions, there are no assessments on auto dealers.


The Brownback amendment would prohibit assessments. The underlying 
bill already does that. There is no reason for that provision in the 
amendment of my colleague from Kansas. The bill further eliminates the 
authority of the bureau of financial protection to examine and enforce 
new rules on auto dealers.

State authorities and the Federal Trade Commission will continue as 
they have to perform this role. Thirdly, as a result of our bill, the 
only impact the consumer bureau will have on auto dealers is through 
rule writing. It is crucial that auto dealers, in the financing of 
autos, play by the same rules as their competitors do in communities 
all across our country.

One has to ask: What could be more reasonable than that? There are a 
variety of places people can go to finance an automobile. You can go to 
a credit union; you can go to your community bank. There may be other 
means by which you can finance. Why should we disadvantage those 
institutions in a community at the expense of one other who is seeking 
exemption from these rules?

That brings me to the second point. The legislation we have written 
creates a level playing field among auto dealers, community banks, 
credit unions, and others. This will empower consumers to shop 
effectively for the best financing available as they see it. They ought 
to have that opportunity, not fearing that if they go to one financial 
service provider or another, the rules apply in one case and do not in 
another. That disadvantages all consumers in this country who want to 
be able to shop effectively.

How many times have we seen that ad: When providers of financial 
services have to compete, consumers win? If they have to compete on a 
level playing field, then we are going to make it possible for people 
to get the best value that is available to them.

Consumers should be treated the same regardless of whether they get a 
loan from an auto dealer, a credit union, a community bank, or anyone 
else for that matter who is engaged in the financial products and 
service industry.

Community banks and credit unions should not be forced to live under 
more stringent rules for making auto loans than do auto dealers. Just 
imagine, in small communities, where on the same street you might have 
a community bank, a credit union, and an automobile dealer that is 
financing automobiles.

Why should there be a disparity in terms of the protections consumers 
get depending upon which door they walk through on that Main Street: 
walk into the credit union, walk into the community bank, or walk into 
the auto dealer who is financing. Why should that last place be treated 
differently than the other two when it comes to financing?

That is at the heart of what our bill is trying to do. That is what 
makes it especially important that car salesmen follow the same rules 
and provide customers with clear, transparent, easy-


to-understand information, so those consumers, those who are also our 
neighbors, are empowered to make smart financial choices for themselves 
and their families without having to worry about hidden markups that 
can cost them hundreds of dollars over the course of paying off a loan.

Let me emphasize again what I said at the outset. The overwhelming 
majority of auto dealers play by the rules. Again, I am not talking 
about the vast majority that do this but the unscrupulous ones, those 
who engage in ripping off people and are doing everything they can to 
get away with it.

That is what the legislation is designed to deal with. This is the 
way the marketplace is supposed to work, where people can shop fairly, 
knowing the rules apply to everyone equally, and there is competition 
to provide higher quality products and services and better prices.

A strong consumer bureau will be good for responsible auto dealers as 
well. If the Brownback amendment wins, Wall Street wins, and those 
responsible dealers will lose. Let me explain why this is true.

If auto dealers are carved out of this bill, as the Brownback 
amendment would do, it means we are essentially exempting Wall Street-
funded auto dealers and putting credit unions and community banks at a 
disadvantage. It means Wall Street will continue to incentivize auto 
dealers to offer bad, overpriced loans that make it impossible for 
responsible dealers to compete. We have seen this time and time again 
in every market. The bad money pushes out the good money. The 
responsible players who play by the rules are undercut by the sharp 
dealers who cut corners.

Furthermore, a strong consumer bureau will restore America's faith in 
auto dealers and the loans they make. Responsible auto dealers ought to 
welcome this. What happens when we have this kind of uneven playing 
field? Unfortunately, we have seen many cases where people, 
particularly those serving in the military, have been the victims of 
shady auto dealers' financing practices. Let me share some of the many 
stories I have heard, and I know my colleagues have as well.

A recent news story describes five young men and women in uniform at 
Fort Riley, KS who were conned into paying for phantom options on 
vehicles they bought from a local auto dealer. In other words, they 
were charged for options on their cars they never received. According 
to their lawyer, despite having decent credit scores, these young men 
and women in uniform were ending up paying interest on their car loans 
averaging almost 18 percent.

Yesterday I told a story that appeared in the New York Times of 
Matthew Garcia, a 25-year-old Army specialist who was recently 
subjected to a trick called ''yo-yo financing'' by an unscrupulous car 
dealer, just as he was preparing to deploy to Afghanistan. Specialist 
Garcia, stationed at Fort Hood, TX, bought an automobile at a used car 
lot and signed up for a loan at 19.9 percent interest rate. That is not 
even the biggest abuse, however, believe it or not. The problem came 
when he drove the car home. The auto dealer called him up several days 
later to say the financing contract had actually fallen through and 
demanded an additional $2,500 in cash. To make sure he paid up, the 
dealer blocked the soldier's car so he could not leave.

In North Carolina, SGT Diann Traina, who works in military 
intelligence/psychology, purchased a used BMW from a dealership near 
Fort Bragg. The dealer who sold Sergeant Traina the car never provided 
her with the registration and, in fact, did not have title to the car. 
Sergeant Traina got to drive the BMW for 1 week before she was deployed 
to Iraq. Then it was repossessed. Through no fault of her own, she now 
has a repossession on her credit rating, her credit. In addition, the 
lender insists she has to pay $10,800 that is still owed on the car. 
She is married. She and her spouse have been without the use of a 
vehicle for a long time but are still being pressured to pay for it. 
Sergeant Traina later learned that the dealer where she brought her 
automobile had sold numerous cars to military personnel, even though it 
didn't own them. The North Carolina Attorney General eventually sued 
the dealership, and it has subsequently gone out of business.

This story is a classic example of predatory auto lending, where the 
dealer is clearly culpable and the military member had no way of 
knowing in advance that the dealer was selling automobiles and 
originating loans for vehicles it did not own. This type of practice is 
actually fairly common among unscrupulous auto dealers who finance, 
particularly, around military bases. Some go in and out of business 
repeatedly, reopening under different names each time, leaving many 
customers in the lurch. Regrettably, this kind of abuse of lending to 
members of the military and their families is far too common.

Holly Petraeus, who directs a better business program for military 
families, noted at a press conference yesterday that auto lending to 
the military needs oversight, because:




 Sadly, many of [those in the military] end up paying far 


 more for those cars than they should.


That is why The Military Coalition, a consortium of over 30 
nationally prominent military and veterans organizations representing 
more than 5.5 million current and former servicemembers and their 
families, opposes the Brownback amendment. We talk all the time about 
protecting and defending and standing up for our men and women in 
uniform, many of whom are in Iraq and Afghanistan in harm's way. Yet we 
are about to pass legislation that would exempt automobile financing 
dealers from the very people we try to protect. I am not making up 
these quotes and these numbers. When we have that many organizations 
expressing their opposition to this amendment, Members ought to take 
note. Again, I emphasize--I know my language here is talking about auto 
dealers in a generic way. I emphasize over and over, the overwhelming 
majority do a good job, a fair job, an ethical and moral job, but they 
would tell us themselves how they can be disadvantaged by those 
unscrupulous dealers who take advantage, particularly of the young men 
and women in the military.

The coalition includes such groups as the Veterans of Foreign Wars, 
the National Guard Association, Military Officers Association, the 
Military Order of the Purple Heart, and many others which oppose the 
Brownback amendment. I am taking advantage of this time today to tell 
my colleagues, please pay attention to this. I know we care about our 
auto dealers. I know they have been lobbying heavily. But they should 
not receive an exemption in the financing area that can put so many 
people at a disadvantage.

The coalition, in fact, sent me a letter. I wish to read a little 
from the letter. I quote:




 The most significant financial obligation for the majority 


 of servicemembers is auto financing. Including the auto 


 dealer financing . . . in the financial reform bill will 


 provide greater protections for our servicemembers and their 


 families.


The letter goes on:




 Providing a carve-out for auto dealers does just the 


 opposite--it will allow unscrupulous dealers to continue to 


 take advantage of servicemembers and their families.


Clifford Stanley, Under Secretary of Defense, said in a letter to the 
assistant Secretary of the Treasury Michael Barr that the Department of 
Defense ''would welcome and encourage the [Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau] protections provided to Servicemembers and their 
families with regard to unscrupulous automobile . . . financing 
practice.''

Secretary Stanley cites the ''bait and switch'' financing, 
falsification of loan applications, failure to pay off liens on trade-
in vehicles, ''packing'' loans with items whose price bears little if 
any relationship to the real cost, and discriminatory lending as the 
kinds of problems members of our Armed Forces and their families face 
when dealing with financing their automobiles with car dealers. In 
fact, Secretary Stanley reports that 72 percent of counselors and 
attorneys surveyed have cited problems with auto dealer abuses in the 
past 6 months alone.

This is not my list of abuses. This is the Under Secretary of Defense 
in a letter.

Two days ago Senator Jack Reed and Senator Scott Brown of 
Massachusetts offered an amendment to create an office of military 
liaison within the consumer protection bureau. That amendment carried 
98 to 1. Only one colleague voted against providing an office within 
the Consumer Financial


Protection Bureau with the kind of protections the Secretary of Defense 
is talking about in his letter.

The amendment carried by a vote of 98 to 1 because Members recognize 
that our service men and women deserve protection from these shady 
financial service providers, including, of course, the major abuser, 
the very group that our colleague from Kansas wants to exempt from this 
legislation.

A crucial part of providing this protection is coverage of auto 
dealers. Yesterday I received a letter from the Secretary of the Army 
John McHugh. Secretary McHugh makes the point that auto dealers are 
often ''the most significant financial obligations of our soldiers--
particularly within the junior enlisted grades . . . ''

If we carve out auto dealers--the businesses that make the loans that 
are ''the most significant financial obligations of our soldiers,'' in 
the words of the Secretary of the Army--why did we vote to create the 
military liaison office in the first place?

If we pass the Brownback amendment and carve it out of our 
legislation, we will have gutted the very office of military liaison 
before it even gets off the ground.

Yesterday the Senator from Kansas made the point that we ought to 
regulate the people who are making the loans, not simply the people who 
are processing the paperwork. I agree. By that standard, we should 
defeat the Brownback amendment because, in fact, the auto dealers are 
the legal lenders. It isn't the financing company. The legal lender is 
the automobile dealer who engages in financing of automobiles. Auto 
dealers finance cars in much the same way mortgage brokers and bankers 
finance mortgages. They shop among a number of wholesale lenders, often 
on Wall Street, and they steer buyers into higher interest rates than 
those borrowers would otherwise qualify for. In exchange, the auto 
dealers who get this kind of financing get the equivalent of a yield 
spread premium or a backend payment. The higher the interest rate they 
can get the borrower to agree to, particularly service men and women, 
the higher the payment the auto dealer receives from the Wall Street 
financing firm.

The incentive is to get the customer to pay as much as possible. That 
is the way they get rewarded financially. This is not the way the 
market should work, whether it is for a young soldier, a first 
responder, or a single mother working hard to raise her family.

Let me read the court testimony of a former auto dealer finance and 
insurance manager from Tennessee about how the process works. Again, 
this is a former auto dealer finance and insurance manager in court 
testimony. I am quoting:




 The standard industry practice is to prepare financing 


 documents so that the customer is not alerted in any manner 


 that the person with whom he is dealing has the ability to 


 control the customer's price of credit.


Let me explain that. The dealer ''has the ability to control the 
customer's price of credit.''

He continues:




 This allows the finance arranger to present himself as the 


 ally of the customer, which further relaxes and disarms the 


 customer. . . . The nature of the transaction creates the 


 perfect opportunity for a dealer to obtain a large kickback 


 from an unsuspecting customer by subjectively inflating the 


 interest rates.


What better evidence could we have than someone in court testimony 
engaged in the very business telling us exactly how it operates? Again, 
the Brownback amendment would basically exempt that person from the 
rules of consumer financial bureau. What does this remind us of? It 
reminds me exactly of the mortgage broker I described a few days ago, 
who is taught and encouraged in training sessions to convince the 
borrower that he is their financial adviser while profiting from 
steering the customer into the more expensive loans.

Let me go back and read the quote from the witness, the former auto 
dealer finance manager:




 This allows the finance arranger to present himself as the 


 ally of the customer. . . .


Tell me what difference there is between that and the unscrupulous 
broker who tries to convince a borrower that ''I am your financial 
adviser''? It is exactly the same kind of abuse. So the mortgage 
broker, without any regulations, gets away with it. If we adopt this 
amendment, it will allow the automobile finance dealer to get away with 
it as well. We ought not to allow that to happen in this legislation.

Moreover, there is a history of discrimination in auto dealer 
financing. For example, African-American borrowers were charged more 
than 2.5 times the amount in subjective rate markups compared to 
majority White populations, after controlling for creditworthiness. And 
similar disparities were found for Hispanics. These abuses have been 
curbed temporarily as a result of a series of court orders and consent 
decrees. However, these consent decrees expire, and they will shortly.

Finally, the Brownback amendment is simply unworkable and would 
create a duplicative bureaucracy. The amendment leaves rule writing 
under the Truth in Lending Act with the Federal Reserve for auto 
dealers loans only. All other Truth in Lending Act rules will be 
written by the consumer bureau. That means the Fed will have to 
maintain a separate bureaucracy to write rules for this one sector of 
the lending industry--not the legal, responsible entity, the auto 
dealer--while the consumer bureau writes the Truth in Lending Act rules 
for everyone else.

Frankly, that makes no sense whatsoever. One of the things we are 
trying to do is to get rid of unnecessary burdensome paperwork and 
duplication.

Several weeks ago, when the debate on this Wall Street reform bill 
first started, I told my colleagues about the Luntz memo, which lays 
out a strategy for attacking real Wall Street reform. Well, let me read 
to my colleagues one thing from the Luntz memo I happen to agree with, 
and it is the following--I quote from the memo:




 The public is angriest about lobbyist loopholes. Part of 


 the perception that Washington cannot do anything right is 


 the belief that lobbyists write most of the bills. The 


 American people are tired of add-ons, earmarks, and backroom 


 deals--but they are mad as hell at ''lobbyist loopholes.''


What is one of the loopholes that Mr. Luntz's memo refers to 
specifically? Car dealers--the very lobbyist loophole the Brownback 
amendment would create. The memo, in fact, warns specifically about 
this amendment we may be asked to vote on because it has been so 
heavily lobbied by those who would take advantage, unfortunately, of 
people.

Finally, I would like to read to my colleagues a statement on this 
amendment that the White House released yesterday from the President of 
the United States. The President says:




 Throughout the debate on Wall Street reform, I have urged 


 members of the Senate to fight the efforts of special 


 interests and their lobbyists to weaken consumer protections. 


 An amendment that the Senate will soon consider would do 


 exactly that, undermining strong consumer protections with a 


 special loophole for auto dealer-lenders. This amendment 


 would carve out a special exemption for these lenders that 


 would allow them to inflate rates, insert hidden fees into 


 the fine print of paperwork, and include expensive add-ons 


 that catch purchasers by surprise. This amendment guts 


 provisions that empower consumers with clear information that 


 allows them to make the financial decisions that work best 


 for them and simply encourages misleading sales tactics that 


 hurt American consumers. Unfortunately, countless families--


 particularly military families--have been the target of these 


 deceptive practices.



 Claims by opponents of reform that this legislation 


 unfairly targets auto dealers are simply mistaken. The fact 


 is, auto dealer-lenders make nearly 80 percent of the 


 automobile loans in our country, and these lenders should be 


 subject to the same standards as any local or community bank 


 that provides loans. Auto dealer-lenders offering transparent 


 and fair financing products to their customers should welcome 


 these reforms, which will make their competitors who don't 


 play by the rules compete on a level playing field.


The President concludes by saying:




 We simply cannot let lobbyist-inspired loopholes and 


 special carve-outs weaken real reform that will empower 


 American families. I urge the Senate to continue to defeat 


 the efforts of special interests to weaken protections for 


 all American consumers.


I further note that while I have emphasized what happens among the 
5.5 million of our service men and women and how they are treated in 
overwhelming cases and that I do not recall another time the Department 
of Defense and military organizations have gotten involved in a debate 
such as this--normally, they get involved in debates involving the 
armed services of our Nation, national security issues,


but the fact that they have gone out of their way to communicate to me 
and every other Member of this body about their concerns over the 
Brownback amendment ought to set off alarm bells to each and every one 
of us. Rare is it, indeed, when the Secretary of the Army or the 
Secretary of Defense or military associations, such as the Veterans of 
Foreign Wars and others, write to Members of Congress about something 
such as this. Yet they feel so strongly about it that they are urging 
us not to succumb to the temptations of carving out this second most 
important financial arrangement that most Americans ever engage in: the 
purchase of the automobiles they need.

I would also point out that among the Better Business Bureau 
statistics, the single largest number of complaints--and the number 
hovers around 70 percent nationwide--aside from the military side, come 
in the area of automobile dealer financing arrangements; that is, 
almost 75 percent of all complaints are in this one area. What more 
information do you need to have about whether we ought to keep this 
section of the bill intact to make sure they are not going to be exempt 
from these kinds of activities?

So when the amendment comes up, I will speak further about this. But 
I wished to remind my colleagues particularly of the information we are 
receiving from our military organizations, from the military at the 
Pentagon, and others about how important this issue is.

I noticed the other day there were votes in the other body to 
increase the pay of our military men and women and I applaud that and 
agree with that. We have taken steps. Jim Webb, our colleague from 
Virginia, recently got passed a bill of rights for our veterans, which 
we all applauded and supported.

As I said, the other day Jack Reed and Scott Brown of Massachusetts, 
by a vote of 98 to 1, got passed an amendment that creates within this 
bureau the only special section of this bureau designated to protect a 
class of our citizenry--one designed to protect our men and women in 
uniform. It is the only one. We do not have a section for the elderly 
or for students or for anyone else. The only class we protected by a 
vote of 98 to 1 is our military.

For, particularly, our junior age military, they do not own homes 
yet. They are too young. They are 18-, 19-, 20-, 21-year-olds. Their 
largest purchase is in the automobile area. What an irony it would be 
to have adopted an amendment to create a special division within the 
consumer protection area to protect our men and women in uniform--we 
are told by the Defense Department the single largest area of abuse of 
these young men and women is in automobile financing--and yet we are 
about, next week, to exempt it from this bill.

I cannot believe that will happen. I am hopeful my colleagues, as 
much as we respect our friend from Kansas--and I do. Senator Brownback 
and I are very good friends. We work together. In fact, on several 
provisions of the bill, he and I support the same ideas. But on this 
one, I passionately disagree with what he is trying to do. I think it 
is a carve-out. It is a loophole.

There are 1,000 lobbyists in this town doing everything they can to 
gut one provision after another in this bill. Millions of dollars are 
being paid for them to walk the halls of these buildings to do 
everything they can to gut this kind of legislation. What a tragedy it 
would be that on the cusp of adopting this legislation, for the first 
time establishing a national Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in 
our Nation, that we would carve out an area that affects the very young 
people who are sitting in harm's way in Afghanistan, Iraq, and 
elsewhere around the world. My hope is we would not let that happen.

With that, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.