# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `27e02408995d35e522d93fc17e810b0e`
`Mr. DeMINT â€” 14 February 2008`

---


Mr. DeMINT. Mr. President, we will talk about it and get the vote 
later on. I want to say a few words about this amendment.



My amendment is identical to the Semper Fi Act, which I introduced 
along with Senators Allard, Bond, Burr, Chambliss, Coburn, Cornyn, 
Inhofe, Martinez, McConnell, Vitter, and probably a number of other 
Members. Since the bill that is pending now will probably be the last 
vote before the recess, I think it is important that we vote on this 
Semper Fi amendment. Last week, when I introduced the bill, the 
majority leader did not recess so that we could not get this on the 
calendar. This is an important bill, which I will explain in a minute. 
We also tried to move it by unanimous consent through the hotline 
process, and all of the Republicans approved the bill, but apparently 
someone on the majority side is holding it. That is why it is important 
that this amendment be part of the bill we are considering today.

The Semper Fi Act would rescind all earmarks, or specially designated 
spending projects, contained in the fiscal year 2008 Consolidated 
Omnibus Appropriations Act for the city of Berkeley and entities 
located therein, and redirects those funds to the U.S. Marine Corps.

For those who have not been paying attention, the Berkeley City 
Council recently voted to ask the U.S. Marine Corps to vacate their 
recruiting office in town, and that if they chose to stay they did so 
as ''uninvited and unwelcome intruders.''

During debate of the resolution, one council member called the 
Marines ''the President's own gangsters'' and ''trained killers.'' 
Another said the Marines had given the country ''horrible karma'' and 
said they had a history of ''death and destruction.'' In a document 
drafted to support the resolution against the Marines, the council 
stated: ''Military recruiters are sales people known to lie to and 
seduce minors and young adults into contracting themselves into 
military service with false promises regarding jobs, job training, 
education and other benefits.''

After voting to insult the men and women who fight and bleed for 
their freedom, the city council cast another ridiculous vote in favor 
of giving the radical protest group Code Pink a parking space directly 
in front of the Marine Corps recruiting station. They also voted to 
give Code Pink a sound permit for protests in front of the Marine Corps 
building. The city council stated in the resolution that they 
''encourage all people to avoid cooperation with the Marine Corps 
recruiting station'' and to ''applaud'' Code Pink for working to 
''impede, passively or actively'' the work of the Marines Corps in 
Berkeley.

Frankly, I just returned from a visit to Iraq, saw our marines on the 
ground and what they were doing. It is inconceivable to me that any 
governing body in this country would say such things to our marines.

Code Pink is a fringe organization that distinguishes itself by 
attacking American policy, while defending dictator Hugo Chavez. The 
group is so disrespectful that they have no problems demonstrating in 
front of wounded soldiers at Walter Reed Medical Center with signs 
reading ''Maimed for a lie.''

The council's resolution sparked an escalation of anti-Marine 
protests. Code Pink organizer Zanne Joy points to the city council as 
justification for the escalation. She said that ''anything legal is 
justified if it succeeds in persuading the Marine Corps to move its 
recruiting station out of Berkeley.'' According to the San Francisco 
Chronicle, Code Pink protesters have been heard shouting at young men 
who are trying to enter the recruiting station, ''You guys are just 
cannon fodder!'' and ''They want to train you to kill babies!''

It is sad to see a city like Berkeley moving so far left. The city in 
which the legendary World War II Pacific Theater Commander, Fleet 
Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, established the Naval ROTC in the fall of 
1926 is now sadly a shell of its former self, thanks to its elected 
leadership.

This is disappointing, but in a republican form of government, it 
must be up to local voters to change their leadership.

However, this particular case became the business of all Americans 
when they insulted our troops and their constitutional mission to 
defend our country; while coming to the Federal Government asking for 
special taxpayer-funded handouts. Over $2 million was secretly tucked 
away for Berkeley earmarks in the 2008 Omnibus appropriations bill, 
projects that were never voted on or debated.

I do not believe a city that has turned its back on our country's 
finest deserves $2 million worth of pork barrel projects. So my 
amendment revokes these earmarks.

Included in the $2 million worth of pork are some particularly 
wasteful projects.

One earmark provides gourmet organic lunches to schools in the 
Berkeley School District. While our Marines are making due with MREs of 
Sloppy Joe and chili with beans, Berkeley students will get Federal tax 
dollars to design meals that promote ''environmental harmony.'' Chez 
Panisse's menu features ''Comte cheese souffle with mache salad'', 
''Meyer lemon eclairs with huckleberry coulis''; and ''Chicory salad 
with creamy anchovy vinaigrette and olive toast''. That is 
unacceptable.

Are we to understand that the city that has been home to many of the 
country's most rich and famous cannot afford to pay for its own 
designer school lunches?

Another $975,000 earmark is for the Matsui Center for Politics and 
Public Service at U.C. Berkeley, which may include cataloging the 
papers of the late Congressman Robert Matsui. Is it really necessary to 
tax the paychecks of Marines so we can earmark nearly $1 million for a 
school that is already sitting on a $3.5 billion endowment?

Let me be clear, my amendment does not cut off all Federal funds to 
the city of Berkeley, though I am sure most Americans would feel that 
is justified. It merely rescinds wasteful earmarks. Berkeley is free to 
compete with other towns and cities across America for merit-based 
Federal grants.

Actions have consequences. When the Berkeley City Council decided to 
insult the Marines in a time of war, it was a $2 million decision. 
Especially in a time of war, we cannot just allow cities to play 
insulting games at our troops' expense while continuing to shower them 
with congressional favors.

On Tuesday, the city council met to revisit its ridiculous actions. 
Hundreds of military supporters and antiwar protesters gathered at 
Berkeley City Hall. Berkeley police reported four arrests before the 
meeting began, all misdemeanors. Police said there were minor scuffles 
between the antiwar and promilitary camps. An American flag was set 
aflame outside the city council chambers, damaging a pair of bicycles. 
When the council meeting finally started, more than 100 speakers took 
turns at the podium.


In a sense, what happened in Berkeley was a quintessential American 
experience, a spirited exchange and protest followed by debate and 
democratic action. And while I find some of the views and behavior of 
many of the protestors repugnant, the exchange itself is a solemn 
reminder of those who have sacrificed so much to preserve our freedom, 
especially our freedom of speech.

Let me be clear. I do not question the sincerity of anyone on either 
side of the issue. I think there is genuine concern among many in this 
country about the war. But while we can respect the legitimate worries 
about the war and can respect the sincerity of even the most radical 
protestors, we must recognize that words have meaning and actions have 
consequences. Some of the hateful words that have come out of Berkeley, 
CA, have had real consequences on our troops, their families, and our 
recruiting.

One of those who spoke at the city council meeting was Debbie Lee of 
Arizona, whose son Marc was the first Navy SEAL to die in the Iraq war. 
She demanded an apology from the council, and she said: My son gave up 
his life for you. Lee told the council, as she clutched his framed 
picture, ''I'm appalled at what you did,'' referring to the council's 
vote on Marine recruiters.

Debbie Parrish, another military mom whose son Victor is currently 
serving in Iraq, said to the Berkeley City Council:




 It is despicable what you said about our military. It is 


 very, very sad. Shame on you.


After all the testimony from the military supporters and families, 
the Berkeley City Council could only muster the votes to not send a 
letter insulting the U.S. Marines by calling


them ''uninvited and unwelcomed intruders.'' Let's be clear. They did 
not apologize for the letter. They just didn't mail it. Of course, the 
sending of a letter at this point is inconsequential given that the 
text of the letter has been running on national television for a week. 
The city council also modified one of its past resolutions to 
''recognize the recruiters' right to locate in our city and the right 
of others to protest or support their presence.''

But the resolution also stated that the city council opposes ''the 
recruitment of our young people into this war.''

The resolution proposing a formal apology to the Marines failed. The 
city council also voted to let four additional items passed at last 
week's meeting stand. One resolution encouraged all people to avoid 
cooperation with the Marine Corps recruiting station. A second one 
requested that the city attorney investigate if the Marines are in 
violation of Berkeley's policy against discrimination based on sexual 
orientation.

In addition, two resolutions giving the radical antiwar group Code 
Pink a weekly parking space and a weekly sound permit to protest the 
Marine recruiting station were upheld by the council's decision.

It was my hope that the city would apologize and revoke its previous 
resolutions and move on. The council chose not to do that. We have no 
choice but to acknowledge the reality of what they have done and to 
defend our military recruiters who are doing the job we asked them to 
do. If we don't take action, we will be sending a message to other 
towns or cities that they can use their power to try to influence U.S. 
foreign policy, thwarting our recruitment efforts.

This issue is not about free speech. It is about a city that has 
shown total disdain for our Armed Forces and used its official 
government powers to harass our military as they try to keep our 
country safe. And this amendment is not about forcing the city to 
change its mind. It is about whether we are going to shower the city 
with favors, with special goodies that do not meet national needs. I 
think the American people have spoken loudly and clearly that they do 
not believe that should be the case.

There is a video with clips of the city council meeting on YouTube. 
It has been viewed by over 200,000 people. It is the 70th most viewed 
video this week and the 11th most viewed video in news and politics, 
with 767 people posting comments overwhelmingly in support of the 
legislation. People are paying attention.

I am amazed at the response received regarding my public outrage over 
the city of Berkeley's behavior. My office has received thousands of 
calls and letters from military supporters all over the country. On 
Wednesday afternoon, I received a call from Sgt James Strowe of the 
U.S. Marine Corps. Sergeant Strowe is currently fighting to protect our 
freedom in Kuwait. Sergeant Strowe understands what the Marine 
recruiters in Berkeley are going through quite well because he served 
as a recruiter himself for 7 years. And he just told me his folks 
serving with him wanted to thank those of us who were standing up for 
them while they were fighting for our country.

After talking with the sergeant, I decided it would be a good idea to 
call the marines at the Berkeley recruiting station to ask how they 
were holding up amidst all the controversy. I talked to GSgt Rick 
O'Frente, who seemed to be taking the events in stride. He even said a 
number of citizens from Berkeley had come into the recruitment office, 
brought them food, and some had apologized for the actions of the 
council.

I guess I have said enough about all of what we are hearing. I have 
pages and pages of comments from people who are asking us to stand up 
for our marines while they are fighting for us, and we will be asking 
again for votes as part of the deliberations on this package.

Mr. President, now that I think the chairman has had a chance to 
understand in more detail what this bill is about, I will once again 
ask for the yeas and nays on my amendment and the Bingaman amendment.