# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `297837208ba897f5fa2f16f248a4091d`
`Mr. TERRY â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. TERRY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 1591, a 
pork-laden $124.3 billion war supplemental that would force U.S. troops 
to withdraw from Iraq.

I strongly support benchmarks and high accountability for military 
and political progress in Iraq, but not in a manner that hurts our 
chances of accomplishing those goals. Under this legislation, U.S. 
troops would be withdrawn from Iraq unless the President's benchmarks 
for progress are met by July. This unreasonable requirement would not 
give General Petraeus enough time to show if the new ''troop surge'' is 
effective.

In addition, this bill would force U.S. troops to withdraw by August 
2008 regardless of whether the benchmarks are met. Members of Congress 
should not be dictating strategy to our generals in the field.

The authors of this bill are talking out of both sides of their 
mouths. In attempting to reach a compromise, they would fund the troop 
surge while dooming it to failure by not allowing enough time to see if 
it works. It is clear that a forthright and honest vote on withdrawing 
U.S. troops would fail. The Majority Party's Leadership has instead 
chosen to entice Members of Congress with pork-barrel spending in 
exchange for their vote on this bill.

The Washington Post reported: ''House Democratic leaders are offering 
billions in federal funds for lawmakers'' pet projects large and small 
to secure enough votes this week to pass an Iraq funding bill that 
would end the war next year.''

This so-called ''emergency'' war supplemental includes non-defense 
spending such as $283 million in milk subsidies, $474 million in peanut 
subsidies, and $25 million in spinach subsidies.

This legislation abandons the Majority Party's supposed leadership on 
fiscal discipline. It is a hypocritical and blatant attempt to gain 
votes from Members of Congress through special interest spending. The 
bill includes non-military items such as an increase in the minimum 
wage, tax relief for small businesses, drought aid, hurricane relief, 
agricultural subsidies and funds for child health insurance. Each of 
these items should be debated under regular order in the House.

I strongly support the defense-related spending items in this 
legislation, including critical equipment for our troops and health 
care improvements for our veterans such as funding for Walter Reed Army 
Medical Center. I was also proud to sign the discharge petition to vote 
on Congressman Sam Johnson's legislation to ensure full funding of our 
troops.

We must demand meaningful progress in Iraq to curb sectarian 
violence, disarm militias, train security forces and strengthen the arm 
of the new Iraqi government until Iraq can govern itself. However, H.R. 
1591 is clearly not the answer. Immediately withdrawing U.S. troops 
would be an irresponsible display of politics that would endanger 
future generations of Americans.

I urge all of my colleagues to join me in voting against this 
legislation, and to demand a ''clean'' war supplemental that meets the 
needs of our troops without pork-barrel politics.