# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `29f2e5a6ac3d899c38b5e7e5059ced44`
`Mr. ROHRABACHER â€” 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. ROHRABACHER. Yes, there are snowballs in hell. I rise in support 
of amendments 4 and 5. I do so with a heavy heart, as I deeply 
appreciate the Americans whose lives are in danger in Afghanistan. They 
are there to protect us against the radical forces of Islam, which used 
Afghanistan as a base of operations that led to the slaughter of 3,000 
Americans on 9/11, which is almost 9 years ago. After that vicious 
attack on our civilian population, yes, we cannot let down our guard. 
However, that does not mean rubberstamping any military operation, even 
if it does not have a chance of success.

I have been engaged in Afghanistan since the 1980s, and I can state 
emphatically that if we continue our present strategy in Afghanistan, 
we will not succeed, and America will eventually be weakened by loss of 
lives and the expenditures of hundreds of billions of dollars.

What works in Afghanistan is what has worked in Afghanistan: Let the 
Afghans pay the price. Let them do their fighting. Putting American 
boys in their place is contrary to our national interests, and will not 
lead to success. Trying to foist upon the Afghan people a corrupt 
centralized government in Kabul will not work. We need to change 
strategy instead of putting our people into a meat grinder in the place 
of Afghans themselves.

I rise in support of Amendments Nos. 4 and 5. I do this with a heavy 
heart, as I deeply appreciate the brave Americans whose lives are in 
danger in Afghanistan. They are there to protect us against the forces 
of radical Islam, which used Afghanistan as a base of operations. And 
that is what led directly to the slaughter of 3,000 Americans on 9-11 
almost nine years ago. After that vicious attack on our civilian 
population, we must never let down our guard, or show signs of weakness 
before this evil fanatic enemy. However, that doesn't mean rubber 
stamping any military operation even if it does not appear to have a 
chance of success. I have been engaged in Afghanistan since the 1980s 
and I can state emphatically that if we continue our present strategy 
in Afghanistan we will not succeed and America will eventually be 
weakened by loss of lives and the expenditure of hundreds of billions 
of dollars.

Putting our courageous defenders in a no-win situation will sap the 
will of our people and the capabilities of our military, as it did in 
Iraq. And while going into Iraq was neither illegal nor immoral, it was 
a mistake, because there was no way to succeed and withdraw before 
being stuck in a bloody and costly war of attrition, from which we are 
only presently extricating ourselves.

Continuing the war in Afghanistan as we are now engaged will lead 
nowhere but to a similar meat grinder, dragging us down and at a 
horrendous cost. None of this means that I believe we should cede 
control of Afghanistan to radical anti-American Muslims. It instead 
means we must be realistic, so the sacrifice of our brave defenders 
will not be in vain.


We could have and should have eliminated Saddam Hussein through an 
alliance with those forces in Iraq that despised that bloody tyrant-- 
the Kurds, the Shiites, the professional soldiers and bureaucracy.

A similar strategy already worked in Afghanistan after 9-11, the 
Taliban and al-Qaeda forces were not defeated by an invasion of U.S. 
military troops. Only 200 American military personnel were on the 
ground when this terrorist army was driven out. It was the Afghans 
themselves--the Northern Alliance--who won the day. They had American 
air support but they were the ones on the ground. I'd say it was not 
ours, but their boots on the ground that did the job. However, most of 
them didn't have boots. This ''let the locals do their own fighting'' 
principle is the formula for success. In Afghanistan, let those forces 
who despise the radical Taliban fight them and defeat them with our 
help, but not in their place. Instead, our young people are doing the 
fighting, and the dying. Why? Because we are trying to foist onto all 
Afghans a structure of government that is totally inconsistent with 
their culture and tradition--a centralized all-powerful government in 
Kabul. That has never worked in Afghan history, especially when that 
central government is corrupt and backed by a foreign army.


America needs to rethink our approach in Afghanistan. We owe it to 
those who are risking their lives to not keep them engaged in an 
impossible mission. Nonetheless, I firmly believe radical Islam can be 
defeated in Afghanistan.

I would suggest that it is time for America to open and honestly 
discuss the various approaches available, and then to move toward a 
plan that will work.

As for me, I say, let the Afghans who expelled the Taliban in the 
past do the fighting for themselves now. Let them do their own 
fighting--it is a strategy that works.



Spending more to keep the current situation from deteriorating in the 
long run will be a waste of treasure and a waste of lives.

I ask my colleagues to join me in voting ''yes'' on Amendments 4 and 
5.