# PROVIDING EXCEPTION TO LIMIT ON MEDICARE RECIPROCAL BILLING  ARRANGEMENTS
## `2a4f493ea0d9e63cfaaea5255dca64bb`
`Mr. THOMPSON of California â€” 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker and Members, this is a very important bill. There are 
almost 3,000 physicians that are serving our country in the Reserves 
and the National Guard. And, as has been pointed out, when these folks 
are deployed and they leave, just like every other person in the Guard 
and Reserves that is deployed, they leave their families, they leave 
their businesses at home, and they go over and they serve their 
country. But there is just one thing different with these doctors; when 
they are deployed, they also leave behind their patients. And these are 
patients who depend upon the medical care they get from that great 
American who is now serving his or her country, and these patients 
can't go without a doctor.

The way the rules are now, the physician has to line up someone to 
take their patients in their absence, and they can only do this for 60 
days. This doesn't work. It is bad for the doctors and it is bad for 
the patients. What we are trying to do is to waive that 60-day 
requirement so the physicians can line up one doctor to take their 
Medicare patients while they are serving our country in Afghanistan or 
in Iraq.



And it's a temporary measure. It's only good through this year. So we 
can, in fact, establish a permanent fix. And this bill has been vetted 
all through the different committees, and the Ways and Means Committee, 
both the chairman and the ranking member are very aware of this bill. 
And my good friend and committee colleague and war hero Sam Johnson has 
signed up on this as a coauthor, recognizing the plight of both the 
physicians who are serving, and their patients and their practices at 
home. And it's important that we fix this now and then continue to work 
on the permanent fix so we can make sure that no doctors and no 
patients who are caught in this vise go without medical care, or 
doctors, while serving their country, lose their practices.

And I just want to say a special thank you to Dr. Bradley Clair of 
Lakeport, California, my constituent, who brought this to my attention. 
And


he's ready to be deployed on his third tour. He'll be going to Iraq. So 
we need to fix it for him, for the other doctors, and patients who are 
exposed because of this problem. We need to fix it permanently. And 
this is the first step in doing so.

Sam, thank you for your help and your friendship on this and other 
important issues.