# RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE OF UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE VETERANS
## `2ac2638f339721e391559c6d623b4ad9`
`Mr. OBERSTAR â€” 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Speaker, 189 years ago, on May 22, 1819, the 
steamship Savannah departed Savannah, Georgia, on the first 
transatlantic voyage by a steamship. This voyage demonstrated the 
commercial viability of


steamships and meant that commercial shipping was no longer totally 
dependent upon the wind.

The U.S.-flag merchant marine has continued to promote international 
transportation and global trade. U.S.-flag shipping companies lead the 
way in the invention and development of containerized shipping and the 
double-stacked train system. If it were not for visionaries such as 
Malcolm McLean, cargo would still be transported in small boxes and 
loaded on a ship like you see in old movies. Today's modern 
containership can carry over 12,000 20-foot containers, equivalent to 
6,000 semi-trailer trucks on our highways.

The merchant marine has also made significant contributions to the 
freedom and liberty that we enjoy in the United States. Civilian 
mariners served gallantly during World War II transporting arms and 
supplies in support of our military forces. More than 700 cargo ships 
and 6,000 mariners died in that war. U.S. mariners have continued to 
service during the Korean War, the Vietnam War, the Gulf War, and now 
in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom.

Mr. Speaker, President Franklin D. Roosevelt first called on 
Americans to commemorate National Maritime Day in 1933. Today, it is 
fitting that the House of Representatives recognize National Maritime 
Day to honor the men and women that have served our Nation in the U.S. 
merchant marine. They have transformed our Nation from an island nation 
into the hub of the world's commerce. They have shown how U.S. 
technology can revolutionize the world.

Yet to many Americans, maritime transportation is the invisible 
component of our global transportation system. People have no idea how 
goods manufactured in China suddenly appear on store shelves in their 
neighborhood. This global logistics system is now vital to the U.S. 
economy. U.S. manufacturers no longer have large warehouses stocked 
full of spare parts for their factories. They are dependent on a ''just 
in time'' delivery system that will supply them with the components 
they need within days or hours of their being assembled. If this global 
trade were to be shut down for a few days, store shelves would begin to 
become empty and factory production lines would be shut down.

I hope that in the coming year we can help Americans understand the 
important contributions that the U.S. merchant marine makes to all of 
our lives and that we develop legislation to help increase the size of 
the U.S.-flag fleet competing in the world trade.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting 
House Resolution 413, recognizing the service of U.S. Merchant Marine 
veterans today on National Maritime Day.