# COMMENDING THE MEMBERS OF THE NEVADA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD AND AIR  NATIONAL GUARD
## `2b69efdc5462e8a2ca87ef08ad4e1c64`
`Mrs. DRAKE â€” 30 July 2008`

---


Mrs. DRAKE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of House Concurrent 
Resolution 358, as amended, which recognizes the National Guard and 
Reserve members from Nevada for their extraordinary service, not only 
to their State but also to this country.

I want to thank my fellow Republican, Mr. Heller of Nevada, for 
introducing this resolution. All of America should be proud of what the 
citizen soldiers of Nevada have accomplished while mobilized and 
deployed for or in support of the war on terror. Since 2003, more than 
3,100 people from the Nevada National Guard and Reserves have performed 
above and beyond the call of duty in both Operation Iraqi Freedom and 
Operation Enduring Freedom. They have served in combatant support roles 
putting their lives on hold while serving the country they swore to 
protect. They temporarily left their families and jobs behind to 
support the needs of the country, and they should be recognized and 
thanked for their sacrifice.

I would also like to thank the families of these brave men and women, 
for they become military families when this country needs them the 
most. They provide essential support to those National Guard and 
Reserve men and women. For that, we are forever grateful.

Since the earliest days of this great Nation, we have required a 
strong military, a military that is ready and willing to protect the 
Nation's interests. The Nevada Army National Guard and Reserves are 
essential to that strong military. They have always acted gallantly 
when called upon in any situation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support House Concurrent 
Resolution


358 and pay respects to the brave men and women of the State of Nevada.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.