# None
## `2ba6916a92657934dfc06718b458f127`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia â€” 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate so much the 
opportunity that my leadership has provided in me in allowing me to 
come and share some comments this evening on the floor on what is truly 
a momentous and historic day for our Nation.

Within the last hour, as you know, Mr. Speaker, I understand that the 
President has fulfilled the promise that he made to the American 
people. That is to uphold and preserve and defend the Constitution of 
the United States; and in so doing, he has vetoed the legislation that 
was passed by the Democrat majority recently, last week, to provide not 
just funding for our troops in harm's way but also to make 535 
commanders in chief here in Congress and to spend an extra 20-odd 
billion dollars on what was supposed to be a clean, clear definition of 
the amount of resources needed by our troops to keep themselves safe 
and out of harm's way in both Iraq and Afghanistan. So within the last 
hour the President has vetoed that legislation, and this Congress will 
take up that veto tomorrow.

Curiously, today we have had Members of the majority party come to 
the floor over and over and over again and express a peculiar amount of 
glee, glee that is highlighting their policy of failure and their 
policy of defeat. Frankly, I don't understand it, Mr. Speaker. Many of 
my constituents talked to me this past weekend when I was home and said 
they didn't understand it either. It was peculiar from their standpoint 
to understand and difficult to understand how the majority party in 
this Congress could believe that abandoning our troops in harm's way 
was an appropriate thing to do. And, consequently, I am as perplexed as 
they with the policy that this majority party has put in place.

The policy that they have put in place, as is clear to everybody and 
we will talk about that a bit this evening, is to ensure defeat and to 
ensure failure of our troops. And it seems to be all, all, for 
politics, which is probably as sad and distressing as anything, Mr. 
Speaker.



The Democrat leadership continues to be committed to a plan for 
failure in Iraq, and they seem to be doing it, as I say for political 
points, scoring political points, political partnership, political 
grandstanding, whatever you want to call it.

And some might ask, well, how can you be so certain of that? Well, 
Mr. Speaker, we get example day after day after day. And the most 
recent example is what happened today, and that is, that the bill that 
this Congress passed, this majority passed last week to provide 
artificial timelines and specific benchmarks for our troops on the 
ground and to add incredible billions of dollars of pork to the war 
supplemental, the bill was passed last week, and they did not send it 
to the White House until today. Now, the President took his 
responsibility seriously and he vetoed that and turned that bill around 
rapidly.

But why, why, the American people are asking, why did it take nearly 
a week to send that bill to the White House? Every day that goes by, 
every day that is added on to our troops and our military not having 
the resources that they need to be able to protect themselves, to be 
able to continue the mission that they have defined, every day that 
goes by that makes it so that they have to rob from Peter to pay Paul, 
every day that goes by that makes it so that they are unable to repair 
munitions and armaments, every day that goes by is costly to our men 
and women in the military, and costly in a way that costs lives. And so 
every day that goes by, by design, is a flawed policy, is a policy for 
failure, and is clearly a policy that is grounded in politics only.

So the question has to be asked, Mr. Speaker, well, why did it take 5 
days to send that bill to the President? Well, what we have seen today 
is the answer to that question; and that is, that the other side, the 
majority party, clearly wanted to score their political points, to take 
advantage of a May 1 anniversary that they would define, to distort 
that terribly, but to take advantage of that anniversary for political 
points. It is sad, Mr. Speaker, it is truly, truly very sad.

I came to the floor last Wednesday, when this House passed the bill, 
and I talked about it being a sad and a sobering day for America, and a 
shame. And I talked about it being a shame because the policy that this 
majority party has adopted is a policy that sends the wrong message to 
our troops, it sends the wrong message to our allies, and yes, Mr. 
Speaker, it sends the wrong message to our enemies. Because to our 
troops it says that we don't believe in you. We don't believe you can 
accomplish your mission. We don't believe that you have the ability to 
do what you say you can do. We don't believe in our general that we 
supported and endorsed by unanimous vote in the Senate just this year. 
The message to our troops says, ''We don't believe in you.''

To our allies, the message is one that, I think if you look at it 
seriously, Mr. Speaker, is one that nobody would want to send. Because 
what it says to our allies is, with this majority party you can no 
longer trust the commitment and the word of the United States of 
America. That is what it says to our allies. I don't think that is the 
message, Mr. Speaker, that we ought to be sending around the world in 
this dangerous time.

But probably the most important message is the message that it sends 
to our enemies. To our enemies it says, if you happen to have a 
difference with the United States of America and you believe that the 
destruction of the United States of America is at the core of your 
belief, then all you have to do is wait, all you have to do is wait; 
America will give up. That is the wrong message, Mr. Speaker. That is 
the wrong message. And it will ultimately end up in a more dangerous 
world if it is allowed to succeed.

If that message is allowed to succeed by the policies of this Nation, 
it will ultimately end up in a more dangerous world. It will certainly 
end up in a more dangerous Middle East. And it will end up, I believe, 
and many scholars and experts in the military believe that it will end 
up causing greater amounts of casualties for the American people, and 
certainly for our military who will have to engage in a way and in a 
manner that is almost incomprehensible to us right now.

Most of us in this Chamber, who we are privileged to serve, but most 
of us have members of the military who have come from our district; all 
of them have sacrificed to serve. They have recognized the importance 
of service to our Nation. They have stood up and they have said, I hear 
the call. If you talk to them, most of them will say that they are not 
in favor of the kind of policy that has been adopted by this majority 
party. One of them has been very open about that in this letter that I 
am going to read. It comes from a Lieutenant Jason Nichols, United 
States Navy, who is serving currently in Baghdad, in Iraq.

The statements by the majority leader in the United States Senate 
recently about the war being lost have hit a nerve, they have struck a 
cord on the part of our men and women in the military. They have struck 
a cord across this Nation, Mr. Speaker. And the cord that they have 
struck is one that says, how on earth can we have a majority party, a 
majority leader who makes that kind of statement in the middle of 
conflict when our men and women are in harm's way? What kind of leader 
is that?

This letter, as I say, comes from Lieutenant Jason Nichols, United 
States Navy, it is addressed to Senator Reid. And he says, ''Senator 
Reid, when you say we've lost in Iraq, I don't think you understand the 
effect of your words. The Iraqis I speak with are the good guys here, 
fighting to build a stable government. They hear what you say, but they 
don't understand it. They don't know about the political game, they 
don't know about a Presidential veto, and they don't know about party 
politics. But they do know that if they help us, they are noticed by 
terrorists and extremists, and they decide to help us if they think we 
can protect them from those terrorists. They tell us where caches of 
weapons are hidden. They call and report small groups of men who are 
strangers to the neighborhood, men that look the same to us but


are obvious to them to be a foreign suicide cell.

''To be brief, your words are killing us. Your statements make the 
Iraqis afraid to help us for fear we will leave them unprotected in the 
future. They don't report a cache, and its weapons blow up my friends 
in a convoy. They don't report a foreign fighter, and that fighter 
sends a mortar onto my base. Your statements are noticed, and they have 
an effect.

''Finally, you are mistaken when you say we are losing. We are 
winning, I see it every day. However, we will win with fewer casualties 
if you will help us. Will you?''

Respectfully, Lieutenant Jason Nichols, United States Navy.

Do you hear that, Mr. Speaker? The message that we are sending to our 
enemy, as I said, is all you have to do, if you oppose the United 
States, is just wait. But it is more than that, isn't it, Mr. Speaker? 
As Lieutenant Nichols said, quote, ''To be brief, your words are 
killing us.'' Mr. Speaker, who is ''us'' in that letter? Who is ''us''? 
''Us,'' Mr. Speaker, are the brave men and women who stand up and fight 
on behalf of the United States of America, who stand up and defend our 
liberty and our freedom.

Mr. Speaker, there are some people in my district who wonder why the 
action of Members of Congress who will make those kinds of statements, 
why that isn't defined as treason. I get asked those questions at home. 
They are tough to answer. They are tough to answer. I ask you, Mr. 
Speaker, why? Why? Why do we have leaders that make those kinds of 
statements?

It is not just members of the military that are saying that this 
policy that's being adopted and the kind of language that's being used 
are detrimental to our Nation and to our alliances and to our men and 
women in harm's way. There are all sorts of press reports and press 
opinions, editorials across this Nation that say what on earth are the 
Democrats doing? What on earth is the majority party doing?

The Chicago Tribune described the Democrat surrender bill as ''Self-
Defeating.'' They had in an editorial on the 27th of April, just 4 or 5 
days ago, ''Establishing a timetable now would be self-defeating. A new 
defense secretary and a new commander on the ground should have time 
and flexibility to see if they can succeed where their predecessors 
failed,'' which is exactly what Americans believe. But there is this 
peculiar glee on the other side of the aisle that they are 
accomplishing something for political gain; however, that something 
puts America at greater risk.

The Chicago Tribune goes on to say, ''President Bush will veto the 
spending bill approved by Congress this week because it contains a 
timetable for withdrawing U.S. combat troops from Iraq. He is right to 
do so.'' Mr. Speaker, this isn't a paper that is known to be terribly 
supportive of this President, but they understand the consequences of 
the actions of this majority party, they understand that they put us at 
greater risk.

And finally, the editorial from the 27th of April from the Chicago 
Tribune goes on to say, ''Establishing a congressionally mandated 
timetable for withdrawal would straitjacket the ability of General 
Davis Petraeus, the top commander on the ground, to pursue the 
stabilization of Iraq as events and conditions warrant.

''Senator Harry Reid said recently the war is lost. This legislation 
would all but guarantee it.''

So in addition to having a certain amount of glee with the actions 
that are occurring, Mr. Speaker, I would suggest that the Democrat 
leadership in both the Senate and the House is vested in the defeat of 
the United States in Iraq. They are now on record as being in favor of 
the defeat of the United States. It is a very peculiar strategy, Mr. 
Speaker. And the only way it makes sense is if you believe that this 
Congress ought to act for short-term political gain by a given 
political party; that is the only way it makes sense. No other way 
could it be deemed as being appropriate for the policy of this Nation 
to hamstring, to handcuff, to tie the ability of our generals on the 
ground in Iraq and Afghanistan to make decisions. It seems truly that 
failure and defeat are the goal of the majority party. How sad, how sad 
for a once proud party in this Nation to have failure for the United 
States be their new strategy.

The Wall Street Journal sees it similarly. They say that Washington 
Democrats are taking ownership of the defeat in Iraq. In an editorial 
on April 25, just last month, they say, ''In calling for withdrawal, 
Mr. Reid and his allies, just as with Vietnam, may think they are 
merely following polls that show the public is unhappy with the war. 
Yet Americans will come to dislike a humiliation and its aftermath even 
more, especially if they realize that a withdrawal from Iraq now will 
only make it harder to stabilize the region and defeat Islamist 
radicals. And they will like it even less should we be required to re-
enter the country someday under far worse circumstances.''

It is peculiar, when you think about it, Mr. Speaker, because what 
you hear from the other side, what you hear from the Democrat majority 
in all of their discussion and all of their points, their political 
partisan points that they make about this, all that you hear is about 
this issue of failure. You never hear about what the next step is.

We are going to talk about that a little bit tonight, about what the 
next step ought to be, about the consequences for failure. Because it 
is important that the American people appreciate that the decisions 
made in this Congress will affect this Nation for a long period of time 
if the decisions aren't made in the light of day and with eyes wide 
open about what the consequences of failure in this day and time in the 
Middle East will be.

The Wall Street Journal also went on to say, ''At least Mr. Bush and 
his commanders are now trying to make up for previous mistakes with a 
strategy to put Prime Minister Maliki's government on a stronger 
footing, secure Baghdad and the Sunni provinces against al Qaeda, and 
allow for an eventual honorable U.S. withdrawal. That's more than can 
be said for Mr. Reid and the Democratic left, who are making the job 
for our troops more difficult by undermining U.S. morale and Iraqi 
confidence in American support.''



It gets to the issue of what kind of message, Mr. Speaker, we are 
sending to our allies.

The San Diego Tribune was another paper that weighed in on this 
issue. They went on to describe the Democrat surrender bill as ''a sham 
that is detrimental to our efforts.'' They said, ''The Democratic 
campaign is a textbook lesson in why the war cannot be managed by a 
committee of 535 bitterly divided lawmakers. The Constitution gives 
Congress control of the Federal purse strings, to be sure, but this 
authority has never been an effective instrument for directing forces 
in a combat zone. The Constitution gives that authority to the 
commander-in-chief alone.''

This brings up the interesting issue, Mr. Speaker, of how this 
Congress can believe that it ought to be having 535 commanders-in-
chief. It doesn't make any sense, because it puts every one of the 
Members of Congress who believe that they know better what ought to go 
on on the ground in a position that ties the hands of our generals.

It is not unusual for the Democrat party to believe that Congress 
knows best. Oftentimes their decisions affect people in kind of 
peripheral and tangential ways. In this decision, Mr. Speaker, it 
affects our military men and women who are putting themselves in harm's 
way very directly and adversely.

Now, I want to be clear that those of us in the Republican Party 
believe that this is an appropriate debate for Congress to have. It is 
appropriate for Congress to say, as the paper that I just cited says, 
that Congress has the power of the purse string, and it is appropriate 
for Congress to say, if it so desires, if the majority party so 
desires, that we ought not fund the troops anymore in Iraq or in 
Afghanistan or wherever else this majority party deems that it is not 
appropriate for us to fund troops. That is an appropriate debate. That 
is a clear debate, that is a clear vote, which is why we asked for a 
clear vote, a clean vote, on the war supplemental. Because, Mr. 
Speaker, when that happens, then it is very clear what people are 
voting upon. That, yes, we believe there ought to be resources 
available for our men and women in harm's way; or, no, we do not. That 
is a clear vote.



We muddy the waters and we confound the issue and we do a disservice 
to our Constitution and we do a disservice to our men and women in the 
field, certainly, when we put arbitrary timelines and benchmarks in a 
bill that clearly, clearly, is not appropriate, and makes it so that 
the Constitution becomes undermined.

The San Diego Union Tribune goes on to say more on April 26. General 
Petraeus was here, who is the Commander of American forces in Iraq on 
the ground. He visited this Congress last Wednesday and was not given 
the opportunity to speak to the House of Representatives as a whole in 
this Chamber. In fact, it is curious, Mr. Speaker, because the Speaker 
of this House went out of her way to visit the President of Syria on a 
visit recently to the Middle East, but she didn't go out of her way to 
visit with the American commanding general when he visited Congress.

So, the San Diego Tribune last week said, ''Yesterday's pleas to 
lawmakers by General David Petraeus, the top commander in Iraq, not to 
micromanage the war were brushed off without serious consideration in 
the House's partisan stampede. Meanwhile, essential funding for the 
troops has been sidetracked by the phony legislative exercise playing 
out on Capitol Hill.''

That is what I mentioned, Mr. Speaker, that the only rational 
conclusion that one could come to about why we are going through this 
process, why we are going through this ''sham bill,'' as the San Diego 
Union Tribune calls it, why we are going through this exercise and 
putting the American people and our troops in harm's way through this 
exercise, is all about politics. It is all about politics. How sad, Mr. 
Speaker. How sad.

The Union Tribune concludes, ''And even though this sham bill is 
merely a political show, the Democratic majorities in the House and 
Senate managed to lard it up with nearly $25 billion in wasteful pork, 
most of it entirely unrelated to war funding.''

So, Mr. Speaker, it is not just our men and women in the field who 
say that this is a wrong-headed policy. It is not just those of us on 
the minority side of the aisle who say that this is a wrong-headed 
policy and it sends the wrong message to our troops and to our allies 
and to our enemies. It is cogent individuals across this Nation who 
have come to that same conclusion.

The opportunity to come to the floor is a true privilege and a great 
opportunity to share with the American people what our belief is about 
this supplemental war bill, and I am pleased to be joined by a 
colleague, the gentlelady from Tennessee, Congresswoman Blackburn, who 
is a true leader in this House and has been a true leader on this 
issue, because she understands and appreciates the importance and the 
consequences of the decisions that we make as they relate to our troops 
in the field and as they relate to our Nation and to our future liberty 
and our future freedom.

I am so pleased you would join us this evening. I look forward to 
your comments.