# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `2bb8d6ec415416eb60f6293f6a9b984f`
`Ms. LANDRIEU â€” 10 June 2009`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. Mr. President, the Small Business Administration has 
provided critical financial assistance and counseling to America's 
small businesses since 1953. The services and assistance provided 
through SBAs programs have been pivotal to this country's economic 
growth and have helped thousands of American entrepreneurs realize 
their dream of starting and growing a successful business. In this time 
of economic uncertainty, reauthorization of these entrepreneurial 
development programs is essential to moving our Nation forward.

What helps our entrepreneurs helps our entire economy. According to 
the U.S. Census Bureau, small businesses represent 99.7 percent of all 
firms, employ more than half of the workforce and account for half of 
the Nation's Gross Domestic Product. Small business management and 
technical assistance can potentially help millions of small businesses 
by teaching entrepreneurs and small business owners fundamental 
principles and practices regarding cash flow, cost management, how to 
access to capital and effective business planning. The SBA, through its 
resource partners such as Small Business Development Centers, SBDCs, 
Women's Business Centers, WBCs, Service Corps of Retired Executives, 
SCORE, and others, not only provides technical assistance and 
information to potential and current small business owners, but helps 
focus this Nation's entrepreneurial spirit into concrete economic 
growth.

As Chair of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I 
have heard from small business owners across the country. They have 
told me that the programs and services currently offered by the Small 
Business Administration provide access to important resources that 
enable them to start, grow and expand their businesses. But more can 
and must be done to help these entrepreneurs. Through an extensive 
reauthorization of the entrepreneurial development programs within the 
Small Business Act, I believe that we can dramatically improve the 
tools available to small business concerns while simultaneously growing 
and strengthening our economy.

That is why today I am introducing the Entrepreneurial Development 
Act of 2009. This legislation will provide SBA resource partners with 
the tools they need to effectively serve small businesses, giving them 
more opportunities to help lead the nation back toward economic 
prosperity.

Before I discuss details of this bill, I first wish to thank Senator 
Snowe for her continued leadership on small business issues and working 
with me on this bipartisan effort. Over the past three congresses, the 
reauthorization of these programs has continued to receive support on 
both sides of the aisle, demonstrating the importance of reauthorizing 
essential entrepreneurial development programs.

SBA is utilizing resource partners such as SBDCs, SCORE, WBCs and 
others to ensure that we are growing the Nation's economy through 
entrepreneurial development. In 2007, with a modest Federal investment 
of approximately $97 million in assistance, SBDC clients generated 
nearly $220 million in additional Federal revenues. Many of the small 
businesses that received assistance from SBDC's attributed their 
success to assistance offered by the SBDC. Nationally, this economic 
activity resulted in approximately $2.26 in revenue for every Federal 
dollar expended.

This level of return on investment is not unique to SBDCs. According 
to an SBA report to Congress, SCORE helped create more than 19,000 new 
small businesses in 2007 at a cost of $29 per business and helped 
create more than 25,000 new jobs each year.

These programs also provide essential information, training and 
assistance to a broad and diverse cross-section of communities 
throughout the country, and serve to further grow a variety of 
industries. Resource partners such as WBCs and initiatives such as the 
Program for Investment in Microentrepreneurs, PRIME, are dedicated to 
serving clients who are economically and socially disadvantaged, 
providing tools and resources to small businesses in those communities 
that are most in need. According to a study sponsored by the 
Association of Women's Business Centers, AWBC, 2/3 of WBC clients have 
household incomes of less than $50,000 and 42 percent are women of 
color. These programs serve communities with limited access to capital 
and educational opportunities and provide them with the tools and 
information they need to start and manage a successful business.

The reauthorization of these programs is critical to effectively 
provide entrepreneurs with essential assistance and resources to start 
a successful business. The legislation will also create opportunities 
for veterans and service disabled small business owners. According to 
the Department of Veteran Affairs, there are more than 23.8 million 
veterans in the country, with hundreds of new veterans returning home 
from service in Iraq and Afghanistan each day. Many of these returning 
soldiers become entrepreneurs to support


themselves and rebuild their lives after long deployments, which also 
serves to create new jobs in their communities.

Since the passage of The Veterans Entrepreneurship and Small Business 
Development Act of 1999, the SBA's Office of Veterans Business 
Development has been working to provide technical assistance and 
support to those veterans who have served our country and returned to 
start or grow a small business. This legislation seeks to ease their 
transition by providing business counseling and technical assistance 
through a new network of Veterans Business Centers, modeled after 
Women's Business Centers and Small Business Development Centers. The 
Veterans Business Center Program will provide services not only to 
returning veterans and service disabled veterans, but also to the 
families, spouses and surviving spouses of these heroic men and women.

The 111th Congress will be the third consecutive Congress during 
which comprehensive legislation reauthorizing and improving the SBA's 
Entrepreneurial Programs has been introduced. Ranking Member Snowe 
introduced S. 3778 in the 109th Congress and former Chairman John Kerry 
introduced S. 1671 and S. 2920, a bill to which I was a cosponsor, 
during the 110th Congress. In each previous Congress, this legislation 
was well received and passed unanimously out of Committee; however, 
these bills stalled before the full Senate. As Chair of the Small 
Business Committee this Congress, it is a top priority of mine to 
finally get this legislation passed and ensure that during this time of 
economic uncertainty, we are able to provide small businesses with the 
tools they need to grow and expand their businesses. With this in mind, 
I will work closely with Ranking Member Snowe and the other members of 
the Committee in the coming months to get this legislation to the 
President's desk.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.