# None
## `2bd325637e483d84ac0cc5cf50aede1c`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER â€” 18 September 2007`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 326 
commemorating the 25th anniversary of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial 
right here in America's capital city. I thank the gentlewoman from 
Oregon (Ms. Hooley) for bringing this measure before the House.

In capturing the tremendous sacrifice of our servicemembers, this 
memorial has helped our Nation heal from the losses our communities 
suffered throughout the Vietnam war. Maya Lin, the wall's designer, 
created the monument in such a way as to ''convey the sense of 
overwhelming numbers while unifying those individuals into a whole.'' 
The Vietnam Memorial is a testament to the ultimate sacrifice those who 
serve in uniform have made in defense of our Nation.

Over 4 million people visit the memorial each year. No one leaves 
unaffected by the experience. House Resolution 326 is our way, as 
Members of the United States Congress and citizens of this great 
Nation, of taking an important moment to pause in reflection and in 
gratitude for the freedoms we share today because of the contributions 
of our brave men and women in uniform in Vietnam.

Let us also take this opportunity to recognize those who are serving 
us on the front lines of battle in Iraq and Afghanistan and other 
hotspots around the world. Their sacrifice and devotion to duty 
continue in today's warriors. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to 
support this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.