# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2c967c87be1f3b58f89841e3ade6a48a`
`Mr. CARDIN â€” 22 October 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, Senators Smith, Lieberman, Durbin and I 
offer this amendment to grant Iraqi and Afghan special immigrant visa 
holders 6 months of eligibility for resettlement assistance when they 
arrive here in the United States.

The United States currently provides up to 500 special immigrant 
visas, SIVs, to translators from Iraq and Afghanistan. To be eligible 
for an SIV, an individual from either of those two countries must: (1) 
faithfully serve as a translator with the U.S. military or chief of 
mission for at least a year and (2) be recommended to the program by a 
general, flag officer, or chief of mission. Visas are also issued for 
the spouse and dependent children of the SIV applicant.

According to the Department of State, the U.S. issued 823 special 
immigrant visas to Iraqis this year. This included 432 visas for 
principal applicants and 391 visas for family members.

As a matter of course, immigrants who come to the United States 
through the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, including Iraqis and 
Afghans, are eligible for travel loans to help them get to the United 
States and for resettlement assistance once they arrive here. As a 
matter of course, the Federal Government tries to ensure that refugees 
are able to make the transition to a productive life in the United 
States by providing preliminary housing; school enrollment; and job 
training assistance.

In spite of their service to our country, however, individuals from 
Iraq and Afghanistan who come here on Special Immigrant Visas receive 
no help with travel or readjustment.

The U.S. Government does not keep track of how many of the 823 Iraqis 
admitted into this program actually have been able to travel to the 
United States. Experts believe that many translators with SIVs are 
still trapped in the region because they cannot afford the cost of the 
SIV fees and the plane tickets, especially if they are bringing members 
of their immediate family.

Like refugees, many Iraqi and Afghan special immigrants face 
hardships that make it difficult to immediately adapt to their new 
home. Many have been forced to leave their homes and all their personal 
wealth in Iraq. Many have been forced to pay ransoms or have been 
robbed by criminals while fleeing the country. Moreover, while 
translators are paid well by Iraqi standards, that compensation doesn't 
amount to much for people trying to live in the United States.

U.S. soldiers are paying for the plane tickets of their Iraqi 
interpreters out of their own pockets and acting as hosts and social 
workers for the individuals and families they are unofficially 
''sponsoring'' when they arrive here in the U.S. This puts a heavy 
strain on our soldiers attempting to make their own tough readjustment 
to life back home.

Special immigrant translators have no past experience obtaining work 
permits, Social Security numbers, bank accounts, and all the other 
documents and necessities of everyday life in this country. While 
special immigrant translators have valuable job skills, they often need 
further training and assistance with job placement.

So Senator Smith and I have introduced this amendment to make these 
special immigrants from Iraq and Afghanistan eligible for 6 months-- of 
resettlement assistance. They have been the eyes and ears of our 
military, and they have saved so many American lives. They now have a 
target on their back because of their service to our country, and we 
need to protect them by granting them safe refuge in the United States. 
Frankly, I don't know how we could justify doing any less for people 
forced to flee their homes and their country because they have been 
helping us. This is just for 6 months--just enough to get them on their 
feet.

I would note that the Congressional Budget Office, CBO, has estimated 
that the amendment would have no effect on direct spending under 
current law.

The Iraqis and Afghans admitted under the special immigrant visa 
program have risked their lives to serve the United States. Without the 
assistance my amendment offers, they may remain trapped in the region 
or they may face a tougher time than is necessary or right adjusting to 
U.S. society. My amendment is a helping hand to people who have helped 
us. It's a way to repay them for their service by helping them to get 
here and begin living safe and productive lives in America. We have a 
strong obligation to keep faith with the Iraqis and Afghans who have 
worked so bravely with us--and have often paid a terrible price for it.

I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.