# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `2cce8f45e2cf07d0105dbefc91c2367c`
`Mr. SKELTON â€” 24 June 2009`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 2647, the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. The House Armed Services 
Committee brings before the House a bill reported out of committee by a 
vote of 61-0. This consensus was achieved after a great deal of hard 
work. Our mark lasted almost 17 hours. We considered 129 amendments; we 
adopted 107 of them. We had an excellent debate on the issues in the 
best traditions of our committee. I am confident we will have a similar 
experience here in the full House.

Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to be joined in support of the bill by my 
friend and my partner, Buck McKeon. I am thrilled that he is our 
ranking member, and I commend him for jumping in head first on his 
first official day on the job, which of course was a full day for our 
markup. He has been a very able and constructive partner as well as, 
when required, a skilled opponent. I must, however, mention our 
esteemed colleague, John McHugh, who has agreed to become the Secretary 
of the Army, but who leaves our committee having established a lasting 
legacy, especially on issues of personnel.

In this debate we will consider, and I am confident that we will 
adopt, an amendment that is sponsored by both Mr. McKeon and me that is 
a tribute to the work of John McHugh on our committee.

Likewise, I must thank the subcommittee chairmen and ranking members 
who contributed so much on this bill. They did their homework, and I am 
pleased with the outcome of our efforts. They solved almost every 
problem set out for them, and they accomplished a lot of good 
government at the same time.



They were ably assisted by our committee staff, the amazing 
professionals in the Office of the Legislative Counsel, and the Office 
of the Parliamentarian.

This bill authorizes $550.5 billion in budget authority for the 
Department of Defense and the national security programs of the 
Department of Energy. The bill also authorizes $130 billion to support 
ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan during fiscal year 
2010. These amounts are essentially equal to the President's budget 
request for items in the jurisdiction of our committee.

H.R. 2647 reflects the Congress' deep commitment to supporting 
American servicemembers and providing the necessary resources to keep 
Americans safe. The bill provides our military personnel with a 3.4 
percent pay raise, an increase of .5 percent above the President's 
request. The bill also includes a number of initiatives to support 
military families. In this, the Year of the Military Family, we provide 
funds to establish a Center for Care for military members and their 
families. We also increase the weight allowance for senior 
noncommissioned officers, and authorize the transportation of a second 
vehicle for members who are changing stations from or to a nonforeign 
area outside the United States. The bill also provides funding to 
enhance the Health Professions Scholarship program for mental health 
providers to support the troops and their families.

The mark fully funds the President's budget request for military 
training, equipment, maintenance, and facilities upkeep. By doing so, 
the committee continues its efforts to address readiness shortfalls 
that have developed over the past 8 years.

To address some of these concerns in this mark, we have added $1.6 
billion to operation and maintenance, including $395 million for Navy 
aviation and ship depot maintenance, $762 million to achieve 100 
percent of the requirement for sustainment of facilities, including the 
Department of Defense schools, which, by the way, are excellent, and 
$450 million to improve the quality of Army training barracks.

The war in Afghanistan is a critical mission that is finally getting 
the attention it demands, and I've been saying that for quite some 
time. To ensure our strategy in both countries is effective and 
achieves the intended goals within well-defined timelines, the bill 
requires the President to assess American efforts and regularly report 
on progress. It also authorizes the new Pakistan Counter-Insurgency 
Fund to allow our commanders to help Pakistan quickly and more 
effectively go after the terrorists in their safe havens.

On Iraq, the committee supports the President's policy while also 
upholding the Congress' responsibility to provide oversight to the 
process of drawing down the mountain of material purchased, transported 
and built up in Iraq at tremendous expense to the taxpayer.

In the area of nonproliferation, the bill increases funding and 
creates new authorities to strengthen the Department of Defense's 
Cooperative Threat Reduction program. The bill also fully supports the 
Department of Energy's nonproliferation programs, and adds substantial 
funding in support of the President's plan to secure and remove all 
known vulnerable nuclear materials that can be used for weapons.

The bill takes additional steps on acquisition reform beyond what we 
did in the bill on weapons acquisition which was enacted and signed 
into law by the President last month.

It also ensures that the Quadrennial Defense Review currently being 
undertaken by the Department of Defense both complies with the law and 
gives Congress the insight it needs to make judgments about force 
structure and programmatic changes.

In summary, Mr. Chairman, I believe this bill can be supported by 
every Member of this House. I recognize that some who have deep 
objections to current defense policy on various issues may feel 
compelled maybe to oppose the bill. That's their right, of course. But 
even in most of those cases, I believe that solid progress is made in 
this bill toward protecting our national security in the right way.

I ask Members to vote for H.R. 2647, for our troops and their 
families, and for a strong national defense for our Nation.



The object of our affection, Mr. Chairman, are the young men and 
young women in uniform who do professional, outstanding work for our 
country. This bill helps them in their efforts. All of us are proud of 
them, and I hope that the vote on this bill, when we vote tomorrow, 
will reflect that pride in the military of the United States of 
America.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.