# CONSUMER ENERGY SUPPLY ACT OF 2008
## `2d49720dfbae4a7e5e344da8a30ad12b`
`Mr. LAMPSON â€” 24 July 2008`

---


Mr. LAMPSON. I thank the gentleman from Georgia.

I will just make a couple of points in response to my colleague from 
Texas (Mr. Barton). One, I look forward to working with the gentleman 
in modernizing and working to overhaul the SPR. It is certainly in need 
of improved management. And I might also mention that a version of this 
bill was introduced back in May. And we also have been working on it to 
make it as bipartisan a bill as we could possibly make it since 
November. So there has been a great deal of effort to try to make sure 
that we've heard everyone's concerns and to try to address them.

And one of the points that the gentleman made about imports and where 
our heavy oil would come from to replace this, we purchase 14 percent, 
or 70,000 barrels, from Canada per month. Also the Gulf of Mexico has a 
significant amount of heavy crude that we also would be purchasing to 
put into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.

And I might make the point that the refineries have made significant 
and actually great advances in technology. And they refine heavy crude 
just as easily as they refine light crude today.

So, Mr. Speaker, today we consider this legislation that I believe is 
an important step for our Nation's future energy security. It will make 
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve more compatible with modern U.S. 
refineries and thus more effective. Improving the SPR's flexibility 
will maximize its utility. Shoring up our Nation's energy reserves is 
just one piece of this energy supply puzzle which also includes 
increased domestic drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf as well as 
research and development for alternatives.

I would like to address national security concerns that have been 
mentioned. The day that we went to war with Iraq, the SPR contained 
only 624 million barrels of oil. Today we have more oil in the SPR than 
we have ever had. And this bill ensures levels will not fall below 90 
percent of the current level. In 2006, President Bush declared the SPR 
is sufficiently large to guard against any major supply disruption with 
only 688 million barrels. Today it's more than 700 million barrels. 
Most


importantly, this change will strengthen the SPR and enable refiners to 
operate at full capacity during any potential supply disruption.

When Congress created the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in 1975 
following the Arab oil embargo to protect the Nation from any future 
oil supply disruptions, refiners largely processed only light and 
medium crude. Advances in technology over the years have led to the 
ability to efficiently process heavy oil as it has become a larger part 
of the market. In fact, 40 percent of the oil accepted last year by 
refiners was heavier than the oil contained in the Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve. With refiners planning to expand by 800,000 barrels worth of 
mostly heavy oil capacity in just the next few years, I believe it is 
incumbent upon us to ensure that the Nation's oil reserves match 
refining capacity.

