# IRAQ
## `2d9c3e9a24764c4388c72253969b45bc`
`Mr. WEBB â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I would like to state my support of the vote 
we will take tomorrow. Last week, I expressed my support for the 
bipartisan Levin-Warner resolution which was denied a vote by the full 
Senate due to procedural motions. Ten days later, we find ourselves in 
a similar situation.

Our colleagues in the House have spent the last 4 days debating the 
current course of action in Iraq, and they have completed a vote on 
final passage today. At the same time, the Senate has continued to 
engage in partisan bickering and political gamesmanship. The House 
found a way, it found a bill, and it took a vote. We have a bill, and 
we need to debate it.

At bottom, this debate is not about whether one is a Republican or 
Democrat; it is about the legislative branch exerting its proper 
constitutional oversight by deliberating on the most vital and 
challenging issue of our day. I would urge my colleagues to think about 
the vote that took place in 2002 authorizing the use of force in Iraq 
and about what happened afterward. This was not a party-line vote. I 
was not a


Member of this body, and I do personally believe it was an erroneous 
vote, at least in its outcome, but at the same time, most importantly, 
we should look at the lack of respect shown by the administration after 
the vote. This lack of respect was a clear signal that the true issues 
dividing us in this Government are more related to the relations 
between the executive and legislative branches than between our 
respective parties.

The administration has failed the country again and again in the 
conduct of this war. At the same time, it repeatedly claims that it 
holds the power, regardless of the input of the Congress, to continue 
to push our military people to the limits of their endurance, while 
avoiding the diplomatic options crucial to resolving the situation in 
Iraq which inevitably evolved from our invasion and occupation.

I have heard discussion today about the consequences of withdrawal. 
No one on this side is advocating a precipitous withdrawal, but the 
consequences that are being described--increased terrorism, the 
empowerment of Iran, the loss of prestige of the United States around 
the world, and economic distress in our country--are, quite frankly, 
the exact conditions many of us were warning about if we invaded in the 
first place. The question is not how we withdraw or should we withdraw. 
Some day, we are going to withdraw. Inevitably, we are going to 
withdraw. The question is the conditions we leave behind when we do so.

I have long advocated that an integral part of our strategy in Iraq 
must include engagement with all of Iraq's neighbors, including Iran 
and Syria. As Iraq's neighbors, they are stakeholders in both the 
future of Iraq and the need for stability in the region. As we seek to 
decrease our presence in Iraq and increase our ability to fight 
terrorism and address strategic challenges elsewhere in the world, we 
must bring those two countries to the table. An overwhelming majority 
of those who recently testified before hearings at the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee agree with that assessment.

I have heard today the name of General Petraeus invoked several times 
as evidence of this body's support for the administration's current 
policy. I voted for General Petraeus. A vote for General Petraeus is 
not a vote for this administration's policy or its strategy or its, 
quite frankly, lack of strategy. That vote was to support the 
qualifications of an individual to command troops in Iraq. That was a 
military vote, not a political vote. If the strategy were to change, as 
I hope it will, I have full confidence that General Petraeus is capable 
of overseeing that policy as well. We must see evidence of a new 
diplomatic effort from this administration before we, as a Congress, 
not as Democrats and Republicans, ratify the expanded use of our 
military.

On that note, it should be emphasized that despite comments today 
about the fact that the Baker-Hamilton group supported a temporary 
military surge in its report, it did so only in consonance with a 
robust regional diplomatic surge which was supposed to begin more than 
2 months ago.

Many Republicans seem to be implying that we must support all of this 
administration's actions or, by inference, we don't support the troops. 
The issue is not whether we support the troops; it is whether we agree 
on the political issues to which they are being put. This effort 
demands clear direction from the top. It depends on the extent to which 
this Government is capable of forging a regional consensus regarding 
Iraq's future. This administration has refused to do so. It is not in 
the interest of our troops to continue sending them in harm's way 
without a clear strategy that will bring closure to this endeavor.

I believe very strongly that our political representatives should be 
careful in claiming to speak politically for our troops. Our military 
is a mirror of our society, and so are its political views. We have 
heard a lot of anecdotal evidence today--TV clips, newspaper interviews 
with individuals. But anecdotal evidence notwithstanding, poll after 
poll shows that our troops are just as concerned about this policy as 
is the public at large.

I have one poll from a year ago, a Zogby poll, that says that 72 
percent of the people then stationed in Iraq believed the war should 
have ended by the end of 2006. This includes 7 out of 10 of our Regular 
Army soldiers and a vast majority--nearly 60 percent--of our marines. 
These are people who have done their job. They know what their military 
job is, but they have the same questions about the political policies 
as do the rest of Americans.

I ask unanimous consent to print the Zogby poll in the Record.