# RESTORING HIGHWAY TRUST FUND BALANCE
## `2dd763057a9b9a701d1bd4b3d84abff2`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR â€” 10 September 2008`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. I thank the Chair.

Mr. President, I am here to talk about the need to replenish the 
funds in the highway trust fund. I have to tell you, I have visited our 
State, and you know that about a year ago a bridge just fell down in 
the middle of the Mississippi River. I was thinking as I listened to 
the Senator from Oklahoma talk about the promises that we make to our 
children, that we make to future generations. I think the people of 
this country think we made a promise to them that we are going to have 
safe roads and safe bridges. We didn't keep up that promise to the 13 
people who died that day when they plummeted into the Mississippi 
River. We didn't keep the promise to the hundreds of people who were 
injured in all the cars that went crashing down on an eight-lane 
highway in the middle of the Mississippi River six blocks from my 
house. We need to keep that promise.

When you look at the history of the highway trust fund, it was raided 
once before, many years before I came to Congress, by the exact amount 
of money. I believe it was something like $8 billion. It was raided of 
that money, and it was taken out of the fund and put into the general 
fund.

What we are doing today, at the request of the Bush administration, 
is taking that money from the general fund and putting it back into the 
highway trust fund because we have a promise for public safety to the 
people of this country.

My colleagues have been talking about priorities. I think there has 
been an issue of priorities. I would like to pay for some of the things 
that are going on in this country when we see that deficit. I can tell 
you how I would do it, how I would pay for that deficit. I would start 
bringing our troops home from Iraq. That is $10 billion a month.

It is ironic--that figure--because Senator Inhofe was at the hearing 
we had in the Environment and Public Works Committee about bridges and 
about the expenditures on bridges and trying to keep bridges safe, with 
Congressman Oberstar and others. One of the witnesses told us that it 
would be about $10 billion a year to start bringing up our bridges to 
safety over the next few years. I thought that is exactly the amount of 
money we are spending per month in Iraq. So that is one way we can get 
the money if we really wanted to and if some of my friends on the other 
side would have the will to want to pay for this important 
infrastructure investment.

Another is to close the loopholes that have allowed people to store 
money in the Cayman Islands and hide their money. Another is to change 
the capital gains rate. Another is to roll back tax cuts on the 
wealthiest people, couples making over $250,000 a year and individuals 
making over $200,000 a year. That would bring in between $50 billion 
and $60 billion a year.

I don't have trouble trying too find money to pay for this. We have 
been unable to get our friends on the other side--whether it is the AMT 
fix or any other tax fixes for the middle class, we have been unable to 
get them to pay for this. We are left where we are now with a request 
from the administration to pay for this from the general fund so we 
don't have contractors or people out of work who are supposedly working 
on construction projects. This means something to me because I see it 
every day. That bridge is going up and it is going to be opening on 
Monday. It is kind of ironic to me that we are debating whether we are 
going to replenish our Nation's highways--when everybody is giving 
glorious speeches about the need to invest for infrastructure--on the 
anniversary of that bridge going up again. Some people are actually 
saying we should let this highway trust fund die on the vine and let 
these jobs die on the vine.

I am going to use some examples for bridges. We learned today that 
fully one-quarter of America's 600,000 bridges have aged so much that 
their physical condition, or ability to withstand current traffic 
levels, is simply inadequate. One of the things we have seen on our 
roads and bridges in the last few years is that we are seeing something 
of a boon in our world economy, with the new energy economy. We are 
seeing wind turbines being transported on our roads and rails. We are 
seeing biofuels and more wear and tear on our roads and rails.

As we move to the next century, economics with the next century 
energy, looking at more of our energy being produced from the workers 
and farmers of this country, we cannot be stuck in last century's 
transportation system. I am not going to pretend that replenishing the 
money into the highway trust fund is going to bring us to where we need 
to be with public transportation and where we truly need to go 


with infrastructure in this country to compete on the world stage. At 
least it will stop the bleed so we are going to be able to keep up with 
the ongoing projects we have right now.


I am glad the administration is finally supporting doing something 
about this. It has been sad that we have gone to the other side three 
times to try to fund this important transit fund. As President Kennedy 
once said, building a road or highway isn't pretty, but it is something 
that our economy needs to have. We see that with that bridge in 
Minnesota, but we see it over and over again in the rural areas with 
the development of the wind farms and development of solar and ethanol.

Just to give you a sense of what we are seeing in our State, for the 
first 6 months in 2007 ethanol production in the United States totaled 
nearly 3 billion gallons or 32 percent higher than the same period last 
year. Of course, we are going to move to cellulosic, but that will 
still meet transportation needs in rural areas. Currently, there are 
128 ethanol plants nationwide, with total annual production capacity 
nearing 7 billion gallons, and an additional 85 plants are under 
construction. Total ethanol production is expected to exceed 13 billion 
gallons per year by early 2009.

In terms of transportation, this means that an average square mile of 
land in southern Minnesota, which generates now the equivalent of 80 
loaded semitrucks per year, could soon produce double that or 160 loads 
of grain per year. So we are seeing more wear and tear on our roads. It 
is a good thing. We want to produce wind and solar and biofuel and 
homegrown energy in this country. That will mean having a 
transportation system that can keep up with our growing economy.

Mr. President, I will end with what I began with. We are going to be 
opening a new bridge in Minnesota. Every time I go by that bridge, 
which is six blocks from my house, I always think about that schoolbus 
with kids in it that was perched precariously and by some miracle it 
didn't go over the side. Every kid was saved. They called it the 
miracle bus. We have a promise to those kids that were on that bus that 
this isn't going to happen again. We will keep our roads and highways 
as a No. 1 goal of our Government--public safety. That means not just 
safety on our streets but safety in our streets. That means better 
roads, bridges, and a better transportation system. So that is why we 
would have liked to have done this in another way, but we are in a 
crisis situation with our transit funds, and we should support it and 
replenish the funds.

With that, I yield the floor.