# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2faa24457a0d2d65569509bf16fbd1e6`
`Mr. LANGEVIN â€” 18 July 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Chairman, I am pleased to rise in strong support 
of the Ferguson-Langevin amendment. Last year, I was so pleased to work 
closely with Mr. Ferguson to ensure the passage of the Lifespan Respite 
Care Act, which will offer relief to so many family caregivers across 
the country.

I had the privilege of traveling with Mr. Ferguson to Iraq going back 
a couple of years now, and I know his personal commitment to this 
issue. He shared the story with me about his mom, and so I know, as in 
my case as well as with Mr. Ferguson, this is certainly a very personal 
issue that we have personal knowledge about and we care passionately 
about. So I am pleased to join him today and in the effort to direct 
funding now for this important program. As I mentioned, I know 
firsthand what a difference a dedicated caregiver can make in the life 
of a person with a disability or chronic condition.

Family caregiving is an essential yet often overlooked aspect of our 
Nation's health care system. The ability to live at home and remain a 
part of one's community can make a tremendous difference in a person 
achieving independence, recovery, or treatment. And whether they are 
caring for a child with a behavioral disorder or a parent with ALS or a 
spouse with multiple sclerosis, we all know someone who is a family 
caregiver. They live in all of our communities and they are often 
silent heroes, ensuring family stability and helping those who struggle 
with disease or disability to avoid more costly out-of-home placements.

We were so excited last year when this Congress really took a bold 
initiative in enacting the Lifespan Respite Care Act, and it gave hope 
to so many families across America. Today, this amendment that we are 
proposing directs $10 million toward the Lifespan Respite Care Act, 
which would authorize grants to make quality respite care available and 
accessible to family caregivers regardless of age or disability. So it 
is exciting if we can actually put now the funding into the Lifespan 
Respite Care Act that we so desperately need to help America's families 
who are providing this type of care in the home.

I urge all of my colleagues who are so supportive of the passage of 
this bill to vote in favor of the Ferguson-Langevin amendment.

I also want to commend my colleague Mr. Ferguson, the gentleman from 
New Jersey, for his passion and dedication on this issue. It has truly 
been a team effort. And, again, I urge my colleagues to support it.

Madam Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.