# None
## `2fc8808278e0d199f0bd604aad0d8968`
`Mr. REID â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, the surge has now been going for 6 months. 
More than 600 Americans have been killed, thousands have been wounded, 
costing our country $60 billion.

The National Intelligence Estimate which was issued today--was leaked 
by someone last week--is very clear: There are two al-Qaidas now; there 
used to be one. There is al-Qaida in Iraq, totally separate and apart 
from the other al-Qaida that bin Laden led.

Where did it come from? It came from the worst foreign policy blunder 
in the history of our country, the invasion of Iraq.

My friend, the junior Senator from Kentucky, should understand, as a 
result of that invasion we now have a civil war raging in the 
Palestinian areas of Lebanon, the country of Israel has been basically 
ignored during this administration, and we have Iran thumbing their 
nose at us.

For the information of my friend from Kentucky, there would not be a 
civil war in Iraq, there already is one. It is an intractable civil 
war. We Americans are there in spite of the fact that the Iraqis, by an 
almost 70 percent margin, 69 percent to be exact, say we are doing more 
harm than good; they want us out of there.

The Prime Minister of Iraq said 3 days ago that he could do fine 
without us. Anytime we want to leave, his security would take over.

Now, wake up America? America is awake. They understand very clearly 
we have a situation where we have a President that will be in office 
only another 17 months, and they want the war to end before he leaves 
office. They want to change the course in Iraq which has caused the 
deaths of almost 3,700 Americans, the wounding of tens of thousands of 
Americans, cost us over half a trillion dollars.

That is what Americans want. They are awake.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.