# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `2ff35853df9847dd05ad62fd9c777b04`
`Mr. HONDA â€” 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. HONDA. Mr. Speaker, today, I will vote against H.R. 2346, the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009. While I have great faith in 
the new Obama administration and support many of the provisions within 
the supplemental, I have a number of concerns that precluded me from 
supporting the bill in its current form. I recognize that our new 
administration believes that this supplemental is a necessary carryover 
from the previous administration, but I cannot support the continuation 
of the Bush Administration's failed modus operandi in Afghanistan, 
Pakistan, and Iraq, and the mis-proportioned 90-10 doctrine of 
assistance allocation--that is, 90 percent for military investments and 
only 10 percent for political, economic, and social development.

For the past several weeks, I have been working with Congressional 
Progressive Caucus (CPC) Co-chair Grijalva to convene a series of 
panels featuring Afghan and Pakistani diplomats and security experts to 
discuss a variety of security issues related to Afghanistan and 
Pakistan. As I reported to President Obama in early May on behalf of 
the CPC, this six-part forum has produced a number of recommendations 
for essential elements that should be a part of our strategy going 
forward, including: (1) building the countries' infrastructure, 
industry, markets and workforce; (2) involving local leaders at all 
levels of decision-making; (3) supporting the countries' most effective 
indigenous reconstruction, stabilization and conflict resolution 
strategies; (4) educating girls and integrating women into political 
and economic leadership; and (5) ensuring oversight so that foreign 
resources support the goals mentioned above.

This Supplemental represents our first opportunity to correct the 
failed approaches of the past, but unfortunately we have not done so. 
Going forward, I hope that we can work closely with the President to 
ensure a policy more aligned with the 80-20 model often quoted by 
General David Petraeus, which would invest 80 percent of resources into 
political capacity and institutions with only 20 percent for military.

In this regard, I, along with other members of the Progressive 
Caucus, have presented our findings and specific recommendations to our 
colleagues in Congress, with the intention of informing and improving 
U.S. policy in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Again, while I am not 
supporting this current Supplemental, I was pleased to hear in our 
meeting with the President, that his FY2010 budget request will move in 
this direction.