# None
## `305418a26b7d6c7ab7f176d15a85fe3b`
`Mr. McMAHON â€” 30 July 2009`

---


Mr. McMAHON. Thank you, Congressman Boccieri. And thank you for your 
leadership on this issue.

Mr. Chairman and Mr. Boccieri, it is a privilege and an honor to 
stand here in the House of Representatives tonight and talk about this 
important issue. And I bring to it a perspective I think that is very 
important in this debate. You see, I come from New York City. I grew up 
in Staten Island, New York, and I now have the privilege and honor of 
representing Staten Island and Brooklyn, New York, here in the House of 
Representatives.

For the last few weeks and months, I've been very disappointed at the 
rhetoric that I've heard in this Chamber, and beyond, from those on the 
Republican side of the aisle. They, quite frankly, have had their heads 
in the sand. They, quite frankly, have been tied up in the rhetoric of 
partisan politics. And I say that as a New Yorker, as someone who 
suffered and saw firsthand what happens when this country doesn't deal 
methodically and honestly with energy policy.

You see, September 11, a date that we all know too, too well, in my 
opinion--and in the opinion of the people of New York and people around 
the world--occurred because our country has not dealt honestly and 
fairly with energy policy. Oh, I know it was the act of terrorists, 
there's no question; men bent on hate, men bent on Islamic 
fundamentalism to bring down this Nation. But our country has been 
caught


up too long with an addiction to oil from the countries from which 
these men came.

Every time an American goes to the gas pump and puts gas into his or 
her car, they are sending money back to a Saudi Government that has 
sent and continues to send money to al Qaeda. And every time you go to 
the pump and put gas in your car, you're sending money to Iran so 
Ahmadinejad can send that money to Hezbollah and roundabout to Hamas. 
We are paying for terrorists to arm and be energized in a war against 
America and all the things we stand for.

So I know there can be honest debate on things that we disagree 
about. I know that we can stand on this side of the aisle and that side 
of the aisle and have a fair and honest debate about those things. But 
the things that I've heard over these last few weeks, the lies, the 
mistruths, the prevarications, are all too much for us to take.

Just think about the way that the Republicans have tried to scare the 
American people by saying that if we pass an energy security bill here 
in Washington it will mean an increase in home heating and energy 
prices of $3,100 a year. And when they did that, they cited a study 
from an MIT professor. Upon hearing that, immediately that professor 
said, That is not true, you are misquoting my study. I did not say 
that. That's not what the study says.

Weeks and months after that professor issued that disclaimer, we 
continue to hear from the other side of the aisle these very same 
pronouncements. They are untruths, they are misstatements, and they are 
prevarications, and it's time for it to end. The American people 
deserve more. The security of our Nation deserves more. The people who 
lost their lives on 9/11, the families who suffered, the emergency 
workers who suffered, all those people deserve more. And the men and 
women who right this moment are in places like Iraq and Afghanistan, 
they deserve better. They deserve an honest and upfront discussion 
about energy policy, what it means to our security, and that if we 
don't get it right now, then more lives could be lost in the future.

Mr. Boccieri, I am so glad to be here with you to talk about these 
important issues. And I know that the people from Ohio to New York out 
to California will be united in knowing that America is a country--we 
sent a man to the Moon; we can deal with energy policy as well. And 
it's something that I look forward to working with you on.