# None
## `30e90d82812f755f6f030be5fc982165`
`Mr. WAMP â€” 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. WAMP. I thank the gentleman, and I'll try not to be long. But I 
do want to start by saying that I seek not to blame anyone, because one 
of the things that I'm the most turned off by in the modern era of 
American politics is that everybody wants to blame everybody. And 
Democrats always say Republicans are wrong. Republicans always say 
Democrats are wrong. The truth is, neither party has a whole lot to 
brag about, and more and more people are being frustrated or becoming 
frustrated with the two parties.

But I will say, on this particular issue of energy, it's important to 
realize that talk is cheap. Words are not worth much. And votes really 
do matter. And the positions you take really do have consequences, and 
we have to actually discuss that as we look at solutions, because what 
I want to talk about is solutions; not blame, but solutions to these 
major problems.

In my 14 years of service here, this issue now stings and hurts more 
than any issue that I've seen. And I've served through impeachment, 
through the Iraq war, through the awful response to Katrina, and I 
would say that more people are angry and upset and concerned about 
$4.05 gasoline than anything.

And it's easy to say, I told you so. The gentleman from Pennsylvania 
can definitely say I told you so because I've served with him for 12 
years, and he's been talking about supply of oil and gas and the 
consequences of us not going after it and becoming more independent 
ourselves for the whole 12 years; a very powerful and effective voice.

I too have a long history of talking about the problems that are 
going to be associated with the energy crunch and was very concerned 
following September the 11th that we would end up here tonight. I do 
think that the nexus between national security, energy and the 
environment is the most important challenge of our generation because 
they're all connected now inseparably.


It's ironic that the left wants to promote legislation and 
conversation about global warming and climate change because actually 
that will further restrict our access to energy, and everybody knows 
that. And it will raise prices. It will increase regulation. It will 
actually compound this problem. Yet they're promoting that agenda at 
the same time that they're retreating from energy capacity. And these 
votes really matter.

Now I come at this with 10 years of service on the Energy and Water 
Appropriations Subcommittee, 8 years of service as the cochairman of 
the Renewable Energy Caucus here in the House, which is a bipartisan 
thing; the Representative that represents the premier energy research 
facility in this country, the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. And I want 
to start by saying that conservation is a very important piece of these 
solutions.

As a matter of fact, conservation is not for wimps, as some people 
would have you believe. Conservation is for warriors, in my opinion. 
Not everyone is going to put on the uniform of our Armed Forces. We 
should be grateful to everyone who does. But not everyone's going to do 
that.

But every person in this country can contribute to our national 
security by becoming more energy efficient, by conserving, by trying to 
be more efficient in their daily life, and there are a lot of ways to 
do that.

And I rolled out at the National Press Club, with some outside 
groups, some very effective outside groups, the Drive Smarter 
Challenge. You can go to drivesmarterchallenge.org, and you can save 
yourself hundreds of dollars by following simple instructions of how to 
conserve gasoline without cutting back on your travel. Obviously the 
speed limit and how much you travel would be a good step. But there a 
lot of other things you can do with your automobile, depending on how 
much gas it uses, to save and conserve, because even in small ways, if 
we reduce the demand, and the supply stays the same, the price will 
come down. Demand and supply are connected to each other.

I'm also very, very much about new technologies. As I talk about 
these solutions, understand that I'm here tonight, not because these 
solutions are all technology-driven or conservation-driven, but I'm 
here tonight because we have to go forward with an all-of-the-above 
strategy. We can't afford to leave anything off the table. We can't 
afford to pick winners and losers.

As a matter of fact, I can give you a good example of picking winners 
and losers in the energy sector because in California, they said, we're 
not going to use all of the resources for electricity production. We're 
going to mandate that a certain amount of our electricity has to be 
produced by these sources. They picked winners and losers. And guess 
what happened? The lights went out. They didn't have any electricity.

That's the problem with picking winners and losers. We have to have 
an all-of-the-above strategy.



I'm here tonight, as the gentleman from Pennsylvania laid out 
earlier, because we have to increase capacity. We have to go after 
these resources from the Outer Continental Shelf, from ANWR.

I've been in Congress 14 years. I've cast 24 votes to increase 
capacity for oil and gas in this country. Twenty-four votes. As has 
been said ad infinitum now, and I'm not a partisan guy--I don't want to 
blame anybody--but these votes matter. And almost every time the 
Republicans vote for new capacity, and almost every time the Democrats 
vote against it. Even today, it happened again. And 2 weeks ago it 
happened in the Senate again.

This is one of those issues that I don't want to be too partisan, but 
you can't deny there is a huge difference between increasing capacity. 
Frankly, even the wild-eyed environmentalist has to recognize that this 
is painful to regular people. And you've got to get off of your crusade 
to save every tree, you know, to save every form of wildlife at the 
expense of our human beings who can't pay their bills and they can't 
buy gas.

Be reasonable, people. That's not happening today.

But there's a tremendous amount of new technologies. I would argue 
that we can literally grow our economy, a manufacturing-driven, export 
robust U.S. economy, by being aggressive in this energy sector, because 
we have the innovation.

What does everyone around the world still emulate about our country? 
We would like to say it's our privilege to vote. That's important. But 
they don't all emulate that. We'd like to think that they all would 
freely worship as we do, and I cherish that. But they don't all emulate 
that. We would like to think we all have freedom of the press.

The one thing they emulate is our private sector, our capitalistic, 
free enterprise, innovative sector. We have that.

How did we balance the budget in the late nineties? I was here. Four 
straight years. People think, oh, you cut spending. No we didn't. We 
slowed the growth of spending, yes we did. We didn't cut spending. But 
revenues surpassed expenses principally because of one sector of our 
economy that roared, information technology. We led the world. 
Microsoft is an example. There are many others. We led the world. 
Revenues surpassed expenses.

That can happen again in this sector if we will lead and not be in 
retreat and not regulate, not limit, but expand, go after it, create 
new technologies, increase capacity. Be competitive.

As the gentleman from Pennsylvania said, it's important.



Now, I have had the editor of Automotive News say that we're going to 
be driving electric cars. That might be true. Ion lithium batteries 
have some potential. GM and Toyota say that next summer they're going 
to have plug-in hybrids. But I will also tell you that Volkswagon, 
which is a premier automotive interest in the world, can make a three-
cylinder diesel engine, lightweight, gets 50 to 60 miles a gallon so 
biodiesel, biofuels, as long as they're cellulosic in nature and not 
corn based, are very important developments as well.

I will tell you what I don't think the Congress ought to do is pick 
winners and losers. I think we ought to have an all-of-the-above 
strategy. Let the market determine which one gets their best and first. 
Let consumers choose and promote them all. Let the marketplace decide. 
Let me say that if we do end up plugging our cars in, though, we don't 
have the electricity capacity to keep them running. We have to have 
nuclear energy.

The numbers--81 percent of France's electricity is generated by 
nuclear power. They have 53 reactors; we have roughly twice that many. 
They don't bury their waste, which we propose at Yucca Mountain. They 
reprocess their spent full turning most of the spent waste back into 
energy. Why don't we do that? Because we're still stuck in a Three Mile 
Island time warp mindset that it's somehow not safe, and it is. And 
there is no evidence that it is not. And we've not had any nuclear 
incidences. We have 53 nuclear reactors. It is emissionless.

You want to reduce the carbon footprint? Promote nuclear. If you want 
to reduce the carbon footprint in a meaningful way and you're against 
nuclear, you're disingenuous. I don't care what your name is. You're 
not living in the real world, or you're playing politics. We need 
nuclear.

Now, another new technology is the stationary solid oxide fuel cell. 
What is that? Well, it's developed out of Silicon Valley. Partnerships 
around the country. We have a 100-kilowatt system now being 
demonstrated in the Tennessee Valley. It looks like the HVAC system in 
your home, but here is the special element of a solid oxide fuel cell: 
It makes electricity, but it's not on a transmission grid. That's 
pretty cool in the world we live in today because without a 
transmission grid, you can't shut down the electricity through a 
terrorist incident because not everyone is connected to the grid.

And in this stationary solid oxide fuel cell, which is also 
emissionless, reducing the carbon footprint, it does have to be fueled 
in one feedstock. It's an HVAC system with fuel cells that creates 100 
kilowatts of power which is roughly a 30,000 square foot building. 
Office building, commercial center, several houses. But you have to 
have a feedstock, but it will run on anything, just about. It will run 
on natural gas, it will run on solar in some places, ethanol, different 
feedstocks.

But that's an important development. It has got tremendous 
electricity potential especially if we start plugging in our cars and 
we need this new electricity capacity.

I believe we ought to look at a follow-up stimulus bill that directs 
resources to people that are stuck. And I'll tell you in the south, if 
you're on the lower income, you probably have a very inefficient 
vehicle and you probably drive a long way to work and you're stuck; and 
those are the people that our next economic stimulus ought to help. We 
ought to figure out a way in a bipartisan way to get them some 
resources to move to more efficient transportation, one way or another. 
Because people right now, they can't trade that big car. They can't get 
for it what it's worth, and then they don't have the money to go to a 
more efficient car. We should help them.

In closing, let me just say words are cheap and votes really do make 
a difference, and the votes for energy capacity have been really 
important in the past, and they're even more important today; and 
they're going to be even more important tomorrow. And this is where we 
have to bring this Congress together.

And the Democratic leadership in the House and Senate is way out of 
touch with reality unless they get serious immediately about increasing 
capacity because if we made moves that were published around the world 
that we're going back in the energy-production business, prices would 
come down overnight, not because the energy is there overnight, but 
because they know we're going in the right direction because right now 
we're going in the wrong direction.

We need help.