# EXECUTIVE SESSION NOMINATION OF KATHLEEN SEBELIUS TO BE SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
## `31fbc774267e8e3d352f5358815f35f2`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 28 April 2009`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, Governor Sebelius, who has been nominated 
to be Secretary of Health and Human Services, testified before the 
Senate Finance Committee that she would not refuse to use certain 
comparative effectiveness research as a tool to deny or delay American 
citizens' access to health care. Said another way, a concern about 
comparative effectiveness research, $1.1 billion of which was funded in 
the stimulus program, can be used both for benign purposes, purposes 
that are completely understandable, as well as those most Americans 
would find repugnant; that is, for rationing of access to health care.

Comparative effectiveness research is the comparison of various 
treatments or approaches to garner better data on what works best and/
or what costs the least. Comparative effectiveness research can be 
helpful and beneficial if it is used to inform health care decisions 
and individual health care decisionmaking and as a guide to evidence-
based medicine. Without appropriate safeguards--and these were the 
safeguards Governor Sebelius refused to embrace--the Government could 
actually use comparative effectiveness research to delay treatment and 
to deny care based on a one-size-fits-all approach to health care.

The economic stimulus package included $1.1 billion for comparative 
effectiveness research. This research should only be used to better 
inform individualized decisionmaking; that is, a patient talking to 
their doctor and deciding what is in that patient's best interests. It 
should not be used for the Government to say: Patient, we will not pay 
your doctor for that procedure unless it meets our cookbook medicine 
model that is generated by comparative effectiveness research. Despite 
assurances that the stimulus money would not be used to evaluate the 
relative cost effectiveness of various medical treatments, the National 
Institutes of Health is already undertaking steps to use the stimulus 
money to conduct that kind of cost-based research.

As I indicated, Governor Sebelius was asked before the Finance 
Committee how she plans to use comparative effectiveness research. As 
Secretary of HHS, she will be in the driver's seat in large part to 
determine how the policies of this administration and of this Congress 
will be implemented. My colleague Senator Kyl from Arizona expressed 
his concern before the Finance Committee vote in these words, with 
which I agree:




 Unfortunately, Governor Sebelius' answers made it clear 


 that the Administration is unwilling to support pro-patient 


 safeguards. She left me with no assurance that HHS, federal 


 health care programs, or any new entity--such as the Federal 


 Coordinating Council--will not use comparative effectiveness 


 research as a tool to deny care. And this should be of 


 concern to all of us.


Instead of allowing the Federal Government to intrude further into 
personal decisionmaking and medical care, I believe that health care 
reform should enhance the individual relationships between doctors and 
their patients. I am concerned that using comparative effectiveness 
research to justify treatment denials based on cost will significantly 
limit patients' ability to choose health care services for individual 
needs. It will also reduce--and this is important--medical innovation 
and quality of care.

When asked, Governor Sebelius did not have any convincing answers to 
what is one of the most important questions in the health care debate,


and that is, how do we contain rising health care costs, something that 
is going to render the Medicare Program insolvent in the next decade? 
As any employer will tell us, it makes it increasingly more difficult 
for employers to provide health care to their employees.

According to the Congressional Budget Office, spending on health care 
will account for nearly 17 percent of the gross domestic product of the 
United States. In 2009, that will be as much as $2.6 trillion. America 
spends more than twice what other industrialized nations spend per 
capita on health care. Can we claim our health care product is twice as 
good as anywhere else in the world based on this increased spending? I 
doubt it, even though American health care is very good. But I don't 
think we could say we get our money's worth by spending twice as much 
as any other industrialized nation per capita on health care. Health 
care insurance premiums have risen much faster than workers' wages in 
recent years which means lower take-home pay for American workers. 
Health care reforms must ensure that this trend is reversed or we will 
have failed in one of the most important missions of health care 
reform.

In the Finance Committee, I asked Governor Sebelius her specific 
ideas, other than delaying treatment and denying care, on how to 
contain costs. In my office I asked her, what about health care 
liability reform which, in my State of Texas, has made health care much 
more accessible by moderating the growth of medical malpractice 
insurance premiums, providing a more level playing field when it comes 
to doctors and hospitals being sued. She basically did not have much of 
an answer for whether that should be included. I happen to believe it 
is one of the cost drivers in health care cost and has to be addressed. 
I submit, with no little modesty, that the State of Texas has 
experience in this regard that the Federal Government could learn from. 
While I don't doubt some of the cost containment proposals in her 
answers could be worthy of pursuing, Governor Sebelius failed to prove 
that they will provide substantial savings in a $2.4 trillion health 
care system. The Congressional Budget Office is also skeptical that the 
proposals she mentioned will result in any substantial savings.

Finally--and this should cause all of us to be concerned about 
whether there actually will be cost containment or cost savings in 
health care reform--I am puzzled by the fact that President Obama's 
budget actually asks for more money, $634 billion. That is not the 
total price; that is for a downpayment. In my State, as well as the 
State of the Presiding Officer, before people are accustomed to making 
a downpayment, they usually want to know what they are buying. But the 
budget proposal by the President called for $634 billion of additional 
spending as a downpayment in order to control costs in the long run, 
which is based on nothing more than hope, and that is hardly a 
strategy.

We know we are already facing an unprecedented level of national 
debt. Unfortunately, Congress, under the new administration, has 
contributed greatly to the fact that we have seen more spending in the 
last 90 days than we have seen in Iraq, Afghanistan, and in Hurricane 
Katrina recovery. We know we have $36 trillion more in unfunded 
liabilities in the Medicare Program alone. So at a time when we need to 
figure out how we deal with unfunded obligations of the Federal 
Government, how do we more efficiently spend the 17 percent of gross 
domestic product that makes us spend twice as much as any other country 
in the world per capita, we are ignoring some of the huge unfunded 
liabilities of the Federal Government, and we are asked to take as a 
matter of faith that these proposals will result in savings without any 
concrete plan which can be analyzed and evaluated in the light of day.

I firmly believe this country is spending enough money on health care 
today. What we need are innovative ideas about how to spend it more 
wisely. I have not heard any innovative ideas from Governor Sebelius or 
the current administration.

What causes me even more concern is Governor Sebelius has made it 
clear that she supports a new government-run ''public plan'' for health 
care that is unequivocally a gateway to a single payer system. A new 
government-run public plan option will devastate private insurance 
markets by acting as a competitor, regulator, and funder. How in the 
world can the private market compete when the Federal Government comes 
in and sets prices which will cause employers to give up their 
employer-provided health insurance coverage to allow their employees to 
get coverage under the public plan? Indeed, the public plan, much like 
Medicare today, can be relied upon to use denial or delay or treatment 
rationing of health care in order to contain costs.

The independent Lewin Group analysis found that a new public plan 
could mean that 118 million Americans will lose their current health 
care coverage, and 130 million Americans could end up on a government-
run health care plan. That is what I mean as a ''gateway'' to a single 
payer system through this so-called innocuous sounding public plan 
which will run competition out, will undercut it, and make it 
impossible to have the benefits of a competitive market, as we have 
seen on Medicare Part D, the prescription drug coverage plan, which 
actually, in an amazing feat, has a high public satisfaction and came 
in under proposed cost, mainly through a market-based mechanism that 
creates a market for insurance companies to provide prescription drug 
coverage. That is the kind of model we should be looking at to learn 
from in order to contain cost, not by Government delaying or denying 
access to health care under the guise of a ''public plan.''

The Wall Street Journal recently wrote:




 Because federal officials will run not only the new plan 


 but also the ''market'' in which it ''competes'' with private 


 programs--like playing both umpire and one of the teams on 


 the field--they will crowd out private alternatives and 


 gradually assume a health-care monopoly.


A public plan will also increase the cost of private health care. A 
report by the actuary Milliman estimated the ''hidden tax'' commercial 
payers pay to subsidize the costs of Medicare and Medicaid equals 
roughly $88.8 billion per year. This means that the average health care 
premium is $1,512, or 10.6 percent, more annually per family than it 
would be without the cost shift. A new so-called public plan option, 
which is a government-run program, would exacerbate the cost shift and 
drive up the cost of private health care at a time when we must seek to 
lower health care costs.

Then there is the Washington Post that wrote on April 27:




 [President Obama's] nominee for secretary of health and 


 human services, Kathleen Sebelius, said that she wants a 


 public plan to ''challenge private insurers to compete on 


 cost and quality'' but ''recognizes the importance of a level 


 playing field between plans and ensuring that private 


 insurance plans are not disadvantaged.''


The Washington Post said:




 We disagree. It is difficult to imagine a truly level 


 playing field that would simultaneously produce benefits from 


 a government-run system.


I ask unanimous consent that this editorial from the Washington Post 
be printed in the Record at the close of my remarks.