# IRAN SANCTIONS ENABLING ACT OF 2007
## `3240afe7a5795174dfa894bb40374f34`
`Mr. PAUL â€” 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose any move to initiate further 
sanctions on Iran. Sanctions are acts of war, and expanding sanctions 
on Iran serves no purpose other than preparing the American people for 
an eventual attack on Iran. This is the same pattern we saw in the run 
up to the war on Iraq: Congress passes legislation calling for regime 
change, sanctions are imposed, and eventually we are told that only an 
attack will solve the problem. We should expect the same tragic result 
if we continue down this path. I urge my colleagues to reconsider.

I oppose economic sanctions for two very simple reasons. First, they 
don't work as effective foreign policy. Time after time, from Cuba to 
China to Iraq, we have failed to unseat despotic leaders or change 
their policies by refusing to trade with the people of those nations. 
If anything, the anti-American sentiment aroused by sanctions often 
strengthens the popularity of such leaders, who use America as a 
convenient scapegoat to divert attention from their own tyranny. 
History clearly shows that free and open trade does far more to 
liberalize oppressive governments than trade wars. Economic freedom and 
political freedom are inextricably linked--when people get a taste of 
goods and information from abroad, they are less likely to tolerate a 
closed society at home. So sanctions mostly harm innocent citizens and 
do nothing to displace the governments we claim as enemies.

Second, sanctions simply hurt American industries, particularly 
agriculture. Every market we close to our nation's farmers is a market 
exploited by foreign farmers. China, Russia, the Middle East, North 
Korea, and Cuba all represent huge markets for our farm products, yet 
many in Congress favor current or proposed trade restrictions that 
prevent our farmers from selling to the billions of people in these 
areas.

We must keep in mind that Iran has still not been found in violation 
of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Furthermore, much of the information 
regarding Iran's nuclear program is coming to us via thoroughly 
discredited sources like the MeK, a fanatical cult that is on our State 
Department's terror list. Additionally, the same discredited neo-
conservatives who pushed us into the Iraq war are making similarly 
exaggerated claims against Iran. How often do these ''experts'' have to 
be proven wrong before we start to question their credibility?

It is said that we non-interventionists are somehow ''isolationists'' 
because we don't want to interfere in the affairs of foreign nations. 
But the real isolationists are those who demand that we isolate certain 
peoples overseas because we disagree with the policies of their 
leaders. The best way to avoid war, to promote American values, and to 
spread real freedom and liberty is to engage in trade and contacts with 
the rest of the world as broadly as possible.

I urge my colleagues to reconsider this counterproductive and 
dangerous move toward further sanctions on Iran.