# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `32a35fb7bdec01a4c1db34f1ac4eff28`
`Mr. LaTOURETTE â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. LaTOURETTE. Mr. Speaker, first of all, I want to thank my friend 
and classmate, Mr. Jones of North Carolina, for yielding me the time, 
and also for his leadership on this issue, and had the President 
followed his very respectful letter of January 10, we would not be 
having this debate on this resolution drafted by the Democratic 
leadership.

Mr. Speaker, like most Americans, I desperately want us to succeed in 
Iraq, and I was heartened by the Iraq Study Group report, and I was 
heartened when the President of the United States said we were going to 
take a fresh approach in Iraq. I fear, however, that this is not a 
fresh approach, that this is more of the same. I also fear that our 
course of ''more of the same'' could lead to the deaths of more 
Americans.

I know that the President believes in his heart that the surge will 
succeed. I like and respect the President of the United States, but we 
tried last year a surge of about 12,000 troops in Operation Together 
Forward. The result has been an escalation of sectarian violence and 
attacks on our troops that has been unprecedented and unrelenting.

If I thought that the presence of 21,500 additional American troops 
in Iraq would quell sectarian violence and stop the killing and 
aggression towards Americans in Iraq, I would support it. If I thought 
that the presence of 21,500 new American troops would cause the Maliki 
government to get their house in order and their country in order and 
make the Iraqis step up and do their duty to protect their country, I 
would support it.

Instead, we find ourselves with an Iraqi security force that has more 
time in training than the young people that we are sending from our 
country to defend theirs, yet they cannot get the job done. It is time 
to ratchet up diplomacy, make the Iraqis accountable for their own 
security, and kick off the training wheels that we have tethered them 
to.

Even the Pentagon has warned that an escalation of troops in Baghdad 
could fuel the jihadists, cause an uptick in attacks and embolden al 
Qaeda even more. What shakes me to the core, however, is that we plan 
to send these additional troops into harm's way without adequate 
equipment and vehicles. General Speakes, the Army's Deputy Chief of 
Staff for Force Development, recently laid out a bleak scenario, a 
surge without enough armor kits and without enough up-armored trucks.

Others within the military add there won't be enough up-armored 
Humvees, which even as fortified as they are offer no match for the 
destruction and the power of the IEDs that are used against our troops. 
One senior Army official speculated that the only way, the only way, 
there will be enough Humvees for this surge is if five brigades of up-
armored Humvees fall out of the sky.

This prognostication takes me back to what I thought was one of the 
most insensitive remarks uttered by a public official during the course 
of this war, the former Secretary of Defense in 2004, who indicated you 
go to war with the Army you have, not the Army you want.

Mr. Speaker, I can't believe that 26 months later we are going into a 
surge with what we have got instead of what we need. It is not fair to 
the men and women already in Iraq, nor those on the way, and the costs 
are too high, both in American lives and also the toll on the American 
spirit. Make no mistake, like all Americans I support our troops and am 
eternally grateful for their courage and their sacrifice, and I hope 
and I pray that we succeed in Iraq.

Some of the troops that will be part of the surge are already in 
Iraq. I wish our President had chosen a different path, but he did not. 
I wish my Democratic colleagues had chosen a different approach and 
allowed my party to offer alternative language, but they did not. It is 
what it is, but that does not change my resolve that this surge is not 
in the best interests of this Nation.

May God bless our country, our troops in the field, and the President 
of the United States.