# None
## `32e6653ce2e534258bfa8b01a9dd386d`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER â€” 20 May 2010`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, this has been a most interesting debate. 
As I started, I am terribly concerned about what caused the awful mine 
disaster in West Virginia. I look forward to finding out why that was. 
Lack of government oversight, without any question in my mind, will be 
a large part of it, just as we're finding out in the oil spill.

This has also been an interesting afternoon of playing charades. I 
have a 6-year-old granddaughter who loves to play a game with me. She 
will tell me a tall tale, and then I pretend to believe it. Then, at a 
moment of her choosing, she says, ''Gotcha.'' Don't let them ''getcha'' 
today. What they have been doing here is totally nongermane to this 
bill. And if you all run up and vote ''no'' on the previous question, 
they're not going to bring this up, because they can't.

Don't be taken in by this again. The Obama administration did not 
create this awful problem, but we're totally aware of it, and we have 
undertaken responsibility to clean it up. And we're going to do that. 
As soon as the supplemental bill comes, we're going to have one of the 
best chances in the world if we start to cut back the money that we're 
spending on wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, where we've already spent a 
trillion dollars, lost enormous numbers of our young soldiers, maimed 
many, many more. And it is time for us to cut that out. That, again, 
will start, along with other things we are doing, to get this country 
back on some solid footing.

Let me say to you once again, Please come down here and vote ''yes.'' 
Don't be fooled by this. I imagine that this is the beginning of every 
charade every week, sort of like what Mr. Perlmutter said about the 
COMPETES Act. Please don't forget, my colleagues, that twice we tried 
to vote out that bill to create jobs, put people back to work, and 
procedural games have killed it, to the great concern of the National 
Association of Manufacturers and the Chamber of Commerce, to name a 
couple.

So this afternoon I want you to come down here as quick as you can, 
wherever you are, and put your ''yes'' in here so that we can get this 
done and to give Chairman Miller the opportunity to use this deposition 
authority with his staff to get to the bottom of this mine disaster. We 
have many disasters of all stripes that we're working on, as you know. 
Don't be held up by what we have been through here today. There's no 
question about it, it's nongermane.