# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `3366b14ebd1fbf382b92491bfb6548b5`
`Mr. KIRK â€” 9 July 2009`

---


Mr. KIRK. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 2 minutes.

I want to thank the gentleman because I have worked very closely with 
him to support I think one of the key combat-support elements of this 
bill, which is the National Solidarity Program of the Government of 
Afghanistan.

We won the war in El Salvador largely through the help of a program 
called Mayors in Action, in which we funded programs totaling between 
$5,000 and then $10,000, as long as the community could come together 
and decide on what project. Having government services and activities 
in support of the El Salvadoran Government quickly undercut the 
insurgency and helped win a counterinsurgency campaign there.

Based on the success of that program and others, the National 
Solidarity Program is now operating in Afghanistan. This bill provides 
$175 million, largely through the leadership of the gentleman from New 
York.

When I deployed to Afghanistan in December, I spent quite a lot of 
time working with Monty Greer and Minister Zia, who described how this 
program is now in hundreds of villages throughout Afghanistan, but they 
had a funding shortfall. And working with General Nicholson of ISAF 
Region South, we put together a plan so that this bill would fund 
community development programs right behind the advance of U.S. troops.

It has been little noticed so far in this body that 2 weeks ago the 
United States Marine Corps launched an offensive in the key poppy-
growing region of Afghanistan called Helmand Province, and it was that 
funding shortfall which would have not enabled U.S. troops to have the 
money to do community development projects right in the wake of their 
advance, along with the Afghan troops. This legislation allows them to 
have those tools right away so that the Afghan people will see progress 
in community development right behind the battlefield. It makes our 
chances of success much greater. It makes the sustainment and expansion 
of the Afghan Government much more likely. And bottom line, I think it 
will save a number of lives, especially for those of our constituents 
right now working for what sometimes has been called ''Uncle Sam's 
misguided children,'' otherwise known as the United States Marine 
Corps.

I yield to the gentleman who has worked with me so much with Minister 
Zia on this.