# None
## `339a351f2f1808c364ca079c48e319d1`
`Mr. DUNCAN â€” 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. DUNCAN. I certainly want to first thank Dr. Boustany for yielding


me this time and for his hard work on this legislation. As he 
mentioned, I had the privilege of chairing the Water Resources and 
Environment Subcommittee for 6 years, for the past 6 years, and he 
served as my vice chairman during part of that time. I appreciate his 
work.

I also want to salute my really good friend, Congresswoman Eddie 
Bernice Johnson of Texas, whom I admire and respect so much, and who 
was my ranking member of that subcommittee and now serves as the full 
chairman.

I want to also commend Congressman Bill Pascrell, the gentleman from 
New Jersey, who has been interested in this issue for several years, as 
has my colleague, the gentleman from Michigan, Mr. Camp, and who are 
the primary sponsors of this legislation.

Mr. Chairman, I have said many times that there is nothing that the 
people of this country take for granted as much as they do our clean 
water and waste water systems in this country that are so very 
important, first of all, to our environment, our public health, but 
also to our economy.

We have environmental extremists in this country who don't want us to 
cut any trees, dig for any coal, drill for any oil or produce any 
natural gas, and they basically want to shut our whole economy down. I 
don't go along with their agenda, but I can tell you that this bill is 
one of the most important bills that we could do for the environment. 
Those who really care about the environment should be over here in 
strong support of this bill.

The water infrastructure network has done some real yeoman's work in 
regard to the needs of this country, in this regard, for the last few 
years, and they have estimated that we have needs over the next 20 
years or so of over $400 billion in our clean water and waste water 
systems in this country.

This bill and the other two bills we will take up later this week 
certainly are very important, and they are good starts in alleviating 
some of this problem. It has been said that we have spent more from a 
Federal level on the water system in Iraq over the last 4 years than we 
have spent from the Federal level on the water systems in this country. 
Certainly more money has been spent in this country on our water 
systems, but that has been done by the ratepayers and the local and 
State governments.

There is an important Federal role in this regard because people in 
California drink the water in Tennessee and vice versa. We have a 
mobile society, and there is an important role for this Congress to 
play and for our Federal Government to play in this regard.

I think this bill is a good start in the right direction, and I urge 
all of my colleagues to support this legislation. There are going to 
be, I think, two or three amendments offered from our side to make the 
bill a little more fiscally conservative, and, certainly, I have no 
objection to that.

But we need to pass this legislation, because, as Mr. Camp said, 
there is a lot of this water infrastructure in our country, both waste 
water and clean water, that dates back to the 19th century. We need a 
lot of work if we are going to have the water systems and the kind of 
country that our people want us to have.