# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `33acbccd55c9935184e637a8c4aca0bd`
`Mr. HAYES â€” 30 September 2008`

---


Mr. HAYES. Madam Speaker, I submit the following:

Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: Defense-Wide, RDTE.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Partnership for Defense Innovation 
(Defense Security Technology Acclerator).

Address of Requesting Entity: 455 Ramsey Street, Fayetteville NC 
28301.

Description of Request: The Partnership for Defense Innovation 
received an authorization for $3 million for an expansion of the PDI 
Special Operations Forces Wireless Testbed by establishing a testing 
and evaluation assessment center. This added capability will provide 
rapid testing and assessment, modeling and simulation, software 
verification, validation and accreditation, strategic analysis and 
consulting, and provides built out laboratories and equipment bays 
designed for technical testing and assessment. Capabilities will 
include an indoor high-bay for vehicle modification and testing, a 
radio frequency testing chamber for evaluation of communications 
equipment, and environmental testing chambers designed to test and 
assess the temperature and humidity impact on equipment. USSOCOM 
requires testing and assessment of emerging technologies in net-centric 
operations. USSOCOM is facing a convergence of factors constraining 
military bandwidth. The reliance on the vast amount and types of data 
that the net-centric warrior requires for computing, communication, 
command & control, intelligence and surveillance is challenging. These 
different types of data are collected from a plethora of different 
sources and sensor types, which rely on different data transfer 
protocols that can affect the size of the files and thus bandwidth 
demands. The Lab will continue to problem-solve these issues while 
providing a proximate test bed for just-intime new product tests and 
evaluations on WiFi battlefield solutions. A $2 million add for this 
request was included in the final bill.

Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: Operations & Maintenance, Marine Corps, Operating Forces.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Longworth Industries.

Address of Requesting Entity: 480 E. Main Street, Candor, NC 27229.

Description of Request: Provide an authorization of $5,000,000 for 
Acclimate Flame Resistant High Performance Base Layers. Acclimate flame 
resistant high performance base layers are designed to provide an 
increased degree of protection against potential exposure to heat and 
flame of a short duration. In a flash fire situation, Acclimate flame 
resistant base layers are thermostatic meaning they will remain 
physically intact when exposed to a short duration heat source. They 
will not break open, thus helping to minimize burn injuries as well as 
eliminating the intensified burns caused by the melting or dripping of 
other synthetic materials. The Marine Corps has a $27.0 million 
''Unfunded Requirement'' to provide, ''modernized clothing and 
equipment that is more effective, lighter and more durable to support 
the warfighter in austere environments that have been identified in the 
Global War on Terrorism.'' The Clothing and Flame Resistant 
Organizational Gear (FROG) program (including the Fire Resistant Desert 
Combat Jacket) has been funded to meet the Marine Corps' flame 
resistant apparel requirements with products like the Acclimate Flame 
Resistant High Performance Base Layers. A $1.6 million add was included 
in the final bill.

Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: OPN Budget Activity 01, Line #19, Items Less than $5 
million.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: IMO Pump.

Address of Requesting Entity: 1710 Airport Road, Monroe, NC, USA.

Description of Request: Provide an authorization of $4 million for 
the procurement and installation of Canned Lube Pumps (CLP) on four 
LSD-41/49 Class amphibious ships. This funding will purchase 16 CLP 
units to complete the LSD-41 class. Approximately, $400,000 is for 
technical support for installation; $2.8M for the CLP units and 
installation; $600,000 for battle spares; $200,000 for proto type ship 
board test for LHD class. The Navy has indicated that the total savings 
over the life of the LSD 41/49 class from installing the CLP is over 
$33.1 million and the return investment to the Navy is 394 percent. 
This funding will complete the procurement and installation of the 
Whidbey Island Class. A $2 million add was included in the final bill 
for this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: Defense-Wide, RDT & E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of North Carolina at 
Charlotte (UNCC) and Northrup Grumman.

Address of Requesting Entity: UNC--Charlotte Campus in Charlotte, NC 
is the location of performance (where the work will be done): 
University of North Carolina--Charlotte, 9201 University City Blvd., 
Charlotte, NC 28223 and Northrup Grumman, 7323 Aviation Blvd, Mail Stop 
1105, Baltimore, MD 21040

Description of Request: Provide a $3 million authorization for 
Superlattice Nanotechnology research for the Department of Defense to 
be performed at UNC--Charlotte. Most of today's compound semiconductor 
devices made from silicon (Si) and silicon germanium (SiGe) have high 
power capabilities, but are limited by defect density and other factors 
affecting yield, cost and performance. One of the most promising new 
materials is SiC, which is used to make high power radio frequency 
(RF), power switching, and high current switching devices for a 
multitude of DoD applications. Superlattice nanotechnology can mitigate 
the size, yield and performance limitations of SiC by utilizing atomic 
level control of the SiC-on-Si growth process. This will greatly reduce 
the cost and improve the performance of many of the desired SiC 
devices. Superlattice nanotechnology will form the structure for the 
next dimension in RF electronics (Radar, EW, communications), radiation 
hard electronics (satellite, special use), and power conditioning 
electronics (DEW, electromagnetic gun), enabling performance levels 
unachievable with today's technology. Request $5.0 million be added to 
the President's FY09 Budget Request to continue development of silicon 
carbide (SiC) Superlattice Nanotechnology. A $2 million add was 
included in the final bill.

Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: Defense-Wide, RDT & E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: United Protective Technologies.

Address of Requesting Entity: United Protective Technologies (UPT) 
4600 H Lebanon Road, Charlotte, NC 28227 and their Locust, North 
Carolina facility.

Description of Request: Provide a $2 million authorization for Non-
Hazardous Infrared Anti-Reflective Coatings for Army Aircraft Sensors. 
An alternative coating to extend the service life of expensive and 
critical infrared range sensor windows is now available. This coating 
presents none of the health or environmental impacts found in other 
currently used Anti-reflective coatings. Prototype examples and early 
stage data of this new capability have been presented to the US Army 
and have received very positive feedback. Key features include 
unprecedented environment stability, and excellent abrasion and erosion 
protection. This coating may also be used on both flat windows and on 
dome-shaped configurations. This coating will increase the 
survivability of sensor windows and reduce cost of ownership through an 
increase in operation life and performance. Army provided Cost/Benefit 
analysis


shows that the windows of the AH64 Targeting Sensor Array (TADS/PNVS) 
are currently demonstrating a Mean Time between Unscheduled Removal of 
5031 (PNVS) and 5495 (TADS) flight hours. With the current Operational 
Tempo AH-64's can be expected to fly approximately 100,000 flight hours 
per year (total fleet). Based on the damage seen on removed windows, a 
conservative estimate is that this coating will cut unscheduled 
removals by 50 percent, saving $418,000/year for the Apache Airframe. 
Other Army airframes could show a savings amounting to an additional 
$800,000 annually. $1.2 million was included in the final bill for this 
project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDT&E, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Combat Displays, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 100-B Industrial Drive, New Bern, N.C. 
28562.

Description of Request: Provide an authorization of $6,800,000 for 
development of environmentally sealed, ruggedized avionics displays for 
vertical lift systems and will be done in conjunction with the Center 
for Vertical Lift Excellence, Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS), Cherry 
Point, NC in support of technology to benefit our military aviators. 
This request is consistent with the intended and authorized purpose of 
the Navy RDT&E account. A $4 million add was included in the final 
bill.

Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: Other Procurement, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: North Carolina National Guard for 
the 30th Heavy Brigade Combat Team (30th HBCT).

Address of Requesting Entity: North Carolina National Guard Joint 
Forces Headquarters, Raleigh, NC and the SAASM GPS retrofit work will 
be done by Aerospace Communications Division, 2193 Anchor Court, 
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320.

Description of Request: Requested $1 million to procure up to 200 
Embedded SAAMS cards for installation on 30th Heavy Brigade Combat Team 
(HBCT) radios before deployment to Iraq. The 30th HCBT NCARNG has been 
alerted for deployment to Iraq in second quarter FY09. This will be the 
second tour for the unit. The BCT has about 3500 men and women from the 
North Carolina National Guard, roughly a quarter of the total North 
Carolina National Guard. Many of the members of the unit will be 
conducting operations directly against insurgent forces. Installation 
of the Embedded SAAMS system into the existing radios of the 30th HBCT 
will provide the ground commander with increased situational awareness 
during operations, which will increase ground troop effectiveness and 
decreasing the risk of fratricide. The 30th HBCT are set to deploy to 
the AOR for the second time since 9/11 and this increased capability 
request will not be taken care of by the Army before they depart. This 
request will enable these North Carolina Guardsmen to be fully equipped 
for their deployment. This is a one time request to pay for the radio 
upgrade with SAASM GPS card. $800,000 was included in the final bill 
for this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: OM, ARNG.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: North Carolina National Guard.

Address of Requesting Entity: North Carolina National Guard, North 
Carolina National Guard Joint Forces Headquarters, Raleigh, NC.

Description of Request: ARNG Soldier/Family Support: NCNG Family 
Assistance Center Pilot Program--Request $2M to establish a pilot 
project in North Carolina of geographically disbursed Family Assistance 
Centers that will support the families of deployed service members 
living in rural areas and locations distant from military bases. Since 
9/11, the North Carolina National Guard (NCNG) has experienced an 
unprecedented operational pace that includes mobilizing over 95 percent 
of the force. Current indications are that this pace will continue for 
the foreseeable future. These mobilizations have a significant effect 
on our families and children. One of the most vital lessons learned is 
that they experience this impact not only during the deployment, but 
prior to and especially after the service member returns. Family 
Assistance Centers (FACs) provide essential support and services to 
families of members of the NCNG and of all the other Armed Services. 
These services could include counseling, health care information, 
financial advice, employer support, legal support and guidance, crisis 
referral, community outreach, veteran affairs and more. Unlike the 
active component, NCNG families are not geographically centered near 
installations like Fort Bragg, Seymour Johnson or Camp Lejeune, all of 
which provide these services to their members. Instead, NCNG families 
are spread throughout the state and in most cases cannot get to these 
installations on a routine basis or without some hardship. Establishing 
F ACs across the state allows the NCNG to provide consistent and 
continuous vital support and services to the families of members of the 
NCNG and the Armed Services. Funding this program will significantly 
reduce the impact on families and will directly contribute to 
sustaining a strong North Carolina National Guard. $1.6 million was 
included in the final bill for this project.


Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes. 

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, DW.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Parker Domnick Hunter (domnick 
hunter, Inc. A Division of Parker).

Address of Requesting Entity: 5900-B Northwoods Parkway Charlotte, NC 
28269.

Description of Request: Request $2 million forNano Porous Hollow 
Fiber Regenerative Chemical Filter. Funding would complete live agent 
chemical testing of a nano porous hollow fiber regenerative chemical 
filter and evaluate incorporation of this breakthrough technology into 
an Individual, Self-Cleaning, Protective Mask. This program meets the 
military requirement to effectively protect the warfighter from the 
full range of chemical and biological agents. Current Individual 
Protection Equipment, provided to warfighters and first responders for 
protection against chemical and biological weapons, has significant 
shortcomings including limited chemical protection ability and a 
significant logistics tail. The U.S. Army and Defense Threat Reduction 
Agency have made the development of novel technologies for use in 
advanced Individual Protective mask applications a priority objective. 
Nano porous hollow fiber filter is one such breakthrough technology. 
The hollow fiber filter requires very little energy to operate (10-20 
watts vs. 8 kilowatts for a 50 cubic ft/min. unit), is lightweight (15 
lbs. vs. 150 lbs. for a 50 CFM unit), and has a self cleaning 
capability. Initial chemical testing confirms protection ability. 
Further live agent testing in a U.S. military facility is required in 
order to complete the design for integration into next generation 
Individual Protective Equipment, thus equipping warfighters and first 
responders with complete chemical agent protection, eliminating the 
logistics burden of the current filter, and providing drastic life 
cycle cost savings. $1 million was included in the final bill for this 
project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, DW.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Concurrent Technologies Corporation 
(CTC).

Address of Requesting Entity: Concurrent Technologies Corporation 150 
Rowan Street, Suite 206 Fayetteville, NC 28301-4920.

Description of Request: Request $5 million for Technology Infusion 
Cell (TIC). Under direction of U.S. Special Operations Command 
(USSOCOM) Program Manager Special Operations Technology Development 
(SOTD), provide deploying and deployed forces with ultra-responsive, 
independent evaluation, applied research, rapid prototype development 
and time sensitive critical information; compartmented as required. The 
Technology Infusion Cell serves as an ultra-responsive resource, tied 
to academia, science/industry to meet unique Special Operations Forces 
unit requirements and share concepts and information with DoD 
organizations and rapid deployment forces. The Technology Infusion Cell 
serves as an ultra-responsive resource, tied to academia, science/
industry to meet unique Special Operations Forces unit requirements and 
share concepts and information with DoD organizations and rapid 
deployment forces. $1 million was included in the final bill for this 
project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, A.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: INI Power Systems.

Address of Requesting Entity: 175 Southport Drive Morrisville, NC 
27560.

Description of Request: Request Soldier Portable Power Pack (SP3) for 
the 21st Century Warrior Sophisticated technologies that support modem 
military communications and weaponry are revolutionizing strategic and 
tactical combat operations around the world, but are also creating 
unprecedented demands for portable power. Advancements in 
telecommunications and electronic weaponry are


critical to a dismounted soldier's ability to leverage portable 
electronic equipment including laptops, GPS, night vision goggles, 2-
way radios, laser-designators, chemical sensors, and other network 
equipment. The soldier's technological edge is rendered ineffective 
though without equally portable and sustainable power sources. 
Currently, primary batteries--based on 1960s technology--provide the 
majority of portable DC power for the dismounted soldier; major 
drawbacks are added weight, low power density and limited 
functionality. For example, in a typical 72 hour mission, up to half of 
the rucksack weight for a dismounted soldier outfitted with standard 
electronic gear is in batteries. This creates a logistical problem for 
soldiers who must prioritize either extra batteries or adequate 
ammunition and supplies. The ever growing power demands for the 
soldier's electronic gear aggravate this dilemma and as today's soldier 
becomes increasingly networked on the battlefield, portable DC power 
sources must provide much higher energy density than current state-of-
the-art batteries are providing. The SP3 is also eco-friendly; 
byproducts are water and CO2 and a 25W system operating 
continuously produces 5X less CO2 than a soldier breathing 
in that same span. INI Power Systems proposes to build and field test, 
over a two year period, twenty five (25) of its prototype SP3 power 
systems for Army soldier portable applications. The systems are 
designed to meet the specific power, weight and reliability 
requirements needed for demanding military operations. The 25 watt 
power pack, engineered for communication and weapon system 
applications, combines methanol--a high energy density and logistically 
friendly liquid fuel--with INI Power System's revolutionary direct 
methanol Laminar Flow Fuel Cell (LFFC') technology. 
Hybridized with readily available lithium ion batteries, INI's portable 
power systems yield instant and continuous power for mission critical 
needs and functionality well beyond what is capable with batteries 
alone. The INI power system, weighing just over 3 pounds (1.5 kg), is 
designed to provide continuous power for 72 hours through the simple 
exchange of 8 oz fuel cartridges (each weighing less than 0.5 pounds) 
yet providing 10 hours of constant power per cartridge even at full 
power load. $1.7 million was included in the final bill for this 
project.


Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes. 

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, A.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Sierra Monolithics.

Address of Requesting Entity: 103 West Torrance Blvd, Redondo Beach, 
CA.

Description of Request: Request $5 million for Advanced Radar 
Transceiver IC Development. This project was funded for $800K in FY 
2008 and is currently being used in the demonstration of the Digital 
Array Radar program. This application allows multiple frequencies to be 
scanned simultaneously and allows radar beams to be independently 
operated from the same platform. The net result is better target 
tracking, more time on target, higher probability of detection and 
better utilization of the asset. The FY08 funding allows two items, use 
of the existing commercial IP to demonstrate feasibility and basic 
architecture of the digital section of the RFIC. To realize the 
complete potential of this technology the program needs to be fully 
funded to allow complete circuit design integration, fabrication and 
test for the RFIC. In particular a piece of IP must be developed to 
modify the frequency control of the commercial chip to one suitable for 
radar applications. This program leverages considerable commercial IP 
to gain a substantial gain for the government. The U.S. government 
benefits in several ways from this low cost enabling development. 
$800,000 was included in the final bill for this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes. 

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, AF.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: The Timken Company.

Address of Requesting Entity: P.O. Box 693, Canton, OH 44706-0930.

Description of Request: Request $2.4 million on for Hybrid Bearings. 
Standard aerospace bearings are not adequate for the demands of Joint 
Strike Fighter engine, or many of our existing engines with the new 
requirements placed on the weapons platforms, as well as continued high 
usage In extreme conditions. As a result, the Air Force has been 
working with industry to develop an improved bearing that is tough, 
corrosion resistant and can tolerate the high speeds and temperatures 
of the expanding mission requirements. The purpose of the project is to 
develop a high speed bearing for aerospace applications that will 
provide exceptional hot hardness, exceptional fatigue life, exceptional 
wear resistance, and exceptional fracture toughness. Defense 
applications would include the JSF main shaft bearing application, as 
well as other weapons platforms or devices requiring high speed 
bearings. $1.6 million was included in the final bill for this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Robin Hayes.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: RDTE, A.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Alliant Techsystems (ATK).

Address of Requesting Entity: 1215 South Clark Street Suite 1510, 
Arlington, VA 22202.

Description of Request: Request $7.4 million for Individual Airburst 
Weapon System (IA WS). The Individual Automatic Weapons System (IAWS) 
is a 25mm shoulder-fired weapon that provides the U.S. infantryman--for 
the first time in a direct fire weapon--the ability to defeat enemy 
combatants in defilade and concealed positions. The system includes the 
rifle, target acquisition and fire control component, and 25mm high 
explosive precision air bursting (HEAB) munitions. The program 
currently is in ACTD, with several weapons systems having been 
delivered for demonstration. Additional funding is needed to continue 
development, and in particular to provide sufficient weapons systems 
and associated ammunition and test support for a complete user ''field 
assessment'' needed to qualify the system. $1 million was included in 
the final bill for this project.
