# SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 4--EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON  IRAQ
## `33c5662fc677dc2380ed42cb05384671`
`Ms. COLLINS â€” 24 January 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. The distinguished Senator from Virginia is exactly 
correct. That is indeed the testimony that was brought before our 
committee a month ago. This was not ancient history. It was very 
reasoned testimony and it could not have been clearer testimony. 
Indeed, similar testimony was given by General Casey.

I asked General Petraeus if he felt we would be facing the widespread 
and deteriorating sectarian violence that threatens the entire country, 
but particularly the Baghdad region, if Iraqi leaders had amended their 
Constitution, had passed an oil revenue law that more equitably 
distributed oil proceeds among the groups in Iraq, if they had held 
provincial elections, if they had more fully integrated the Sunni 
minority into the Government power structures; would we be in the same 
place today? And he told me he did not believe we would be. I think 
that is significant, because I believe if Iraqi leaders had taken those 
steps, we would not be facing the widespread sectarian violence that 
has engulfed the Baghdad region.

I also talked to General Petraeus about a fascinating article he 
wrote a year ago in which he outlined 14 observations that he had, 
based on his previous tours in Iraq. The first and most important 
observation in this article in ''Military Review'' that General 
Petraeus had was to quote Lawrence of Arabia back in 1917, to say that 
it was a mistake for us to do too much, whoever the foreign force is, 
and that you had to let the Iraqis take the lead on these issues. Well, 
those words, true in 1917, are just as true today, as General Petraeus 
himself observed in this article.

The second observation in the same article, General Petraeus said an 
army like ours in a land like Iraq has a half life as liberators, that 
they are quickly seen as an army of occupiers. I believe that is what 
has happened in Iraq and that confirms what my own observations were 
during a trip a month ago to that land. Our delegation met with a 
British commander in Basra who described to us a declining consent 
line. He said at first when the British arrived in Basra, they were 
greeted as liberators. But as time has gone by, their presence is more 
and more resented and less and less tolerated.


The observations General Petraeus had in this article offer us good 
guidance and, indeed, reflect in many ways the concepts we have worked 
hard to include in this resolution.

There is one final point I want to make this evening. Some have said 
if we pass this resolution, we show that America is somehow divided and 
not supportive of our troops. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
The fact is every Member of this body is united in support of our 
troops. Every Member of this body wishes General Petraeus all the best 
and hopes he will succeed in this very difficult mission. But the fact 
is, Americans are deeply divided over the strategy we should pursue in 
Iraq. It is part of the health of our American democracy that we debate 
these issues, and we do so because we care about the brave men and 
women in uniform who are representing us in Iraq, who are on the front 
lines, who are sacrificing so much. That is exactly the motivation for 
the resolution that the 10 of us are introducing tonight.

Let me close my remarks by again saying it has been a wonderful 
experience to work so closely with the senior Senator from Virginia and 
the Senator from Nebraska, Mr. Ben Nelson. Both of them have worked so 
hard. They care so much about this issue. It has been a great pleasure 
to join with them.

I thank the Chair.