# IN MEMORIAM OF SENIOR AIRMAN DANIEL MILLER, JR. OF GALESBURG, IL
## `3485b04ed5cbcbc3d8d7b0e7aa9eabdf`
`Mr. HARE â€” 16 January 2007`

---


Mr. HARE. Madam Speaker, last week western Illinois lost one of its 
sons in the war in Iraq. SrA Daniel B. Miller, Jr. was proudly serving 
in the 447th Expeditionary Civil Engineer Squadron's Explosive Ordnance 
Division when a roadside bomb exploded south of Baghdad. Senior Airman 
Miller made the ultimate sacrifice for his country and I would like to 
take this opportunity to acknowledge his bravery, recognize his 
contributions to this Nation, and extend my condolences to his family, 
friends, and loved ones.

Senior Airman Miller, 24 years old, was born to Daniel Miller, Sr. of 
Galesburg and Robin Mahnesmith of Wataga, IL. He was an active member 
in his church's youth activities, enjoyed fishing and hunting with his 
friends, and excelled as a student-athlete. He graduated from ROWVA 
High School in Oneida, IL, in 2001 where he also played varsity 
football.

In 2004 Senior Airman Miller enlisted in the United States Air Force 
and completed basic training in San Antonio. He was then stationed at 
Hill Air Force Base in Utah, working with the explosive ordnance 
division. Airman Miller's experience disarming explosives in the 
military made him interested in joining the bomb squad of a local 
police department once his military commitment was completed. Often the 
target of enemy fire as a member of the 447th Expeditionary Civil 
Engineer Squadron, Airman Miller served with bravery and courage as he 
scoured Iraq for explosives, ensuring the safety of our ground troops.

As the oldest of five siblings, Senior Airman Miller had an extremely 
strong bond with his family. According to ROWVA Principal Andy 
Richmond, Airman Miller often visited the school after he graduated to 
ask former teachers how his brothers and sisters were doing. From what 
I've heard from his family and friends, ''Dan'' was loved by everyone 
and never asked for praise or recognition. ''Dan was everybody's 
friend. He cared about everybody and was just a fun-loving young man,'' 
his father said.

On behalf of the communities in western and central Illinois, I would 
like to extend my thoughts and sincere prayers to the Miller and 
Mahnesmith families at this difficult time. Senior Airman Miller's 
courage in serving his country will not soon be forgotten and a 
grateful Nation stands humbled.

My heart also goes out to the families and friends of TSgt Timothy 
Weiner of Florida, and SrA Elizabeth A-Loncki of Delaware, who were 
also fatally injured in the same roadside bomb attack.
