# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `34d89f6a45515a2b5e50e31bd891a3a8`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, let me first respond to the question 
earlier in the day of my good friend, the majority whip, about whether 
votes at the 60-vote level are somehow a new addition to debates of 
Defense authorization bills. Of course, the answer is emphatically no. 
The question is, frankly, almost laughable. A quick review of the 
Congressional Record shows, contrary to Senator Durbin's assertion, the 
Republican majority agreed to a 60-vote threshold on the Kennedy 
amendment during last year's Defense authorization debate.

Indeed, the Kennedy amendment was part of a UC agreement that set up 
side-by-side votes on the Enzi and Kennedy amendments. Both, of course, 
were given 60-vote thresholds, the same exact format that we offered on 
the Webb and Graham amendments yesterday.

Senator Durbin said there was never a 60-vote threshold. He was 
wrong. What Republicans are asking for is not unprecedented. It is not 
even uncommon. It is there for the distinguished majority whip to 
review online. But I certainly appreciate him asking the question.

We are just a couple of days into this debate. But a familiar and 
troubling pattern is already beginning to emerge. We could have voted 
on the Webb amendment yesterday. The Republicans were willing to move 
forward with votes on the side-by-side amendments. We said so at the 
time. Yet the Democratic majority insisted on a cloture filing instead 
that had no other effect than to simply slow things down. We are about 
to have that same vote with the same threshold and the same result that 
we could have had yesterday, all for no apparent reason.

Two days into this debate, we are already heading down the same 
fruitless road we went down with the emergency supplemental bill when 
the Democratic majority delayed the delivery of funds for our troops in 
Iraq and Afghanistan for more than 3 months.

The bill we finally sent to the President's desk was guaranteed to 
draw a veto, so the Democratic majority delayed it some more. In the 
end, they gave the President the bill he asked for. They wasted 3 
months of the Senate's time fussing and fighting over the original 
request and then gave him what he wanted in the first place. It was a 
total and complete waste of time.

Now, here we go again. Two days into this debate, we are already 
wasting time on an amendment we know the President will veto. The Webb 
amendment contains many good things that Republicans strongly support. 
But it also limits the President's authority as Commander in Chief, and 
combined with other objectionable provisions in this bill will provoke, 
of course, a veto.

The President vetoed the emergency supplemental because it carried 
restrictions on his constitutional authority as Commander in Chief. He 
will do it on this bill too. We know that for a fact. No one here 
disagrees with the idea that our forces should be rested, trained, and 
well-equipped. Republicans showed yesterday that we are committed to 
giving our soldiers and marines everything they need. That is why the 
underlying bill begins the expansion of the Army and Marine Corps. That 
is why Republicans offered a side-by-side amendment yesterday that 
would have given our men and women in the field all of these things 
without language that would draw a Presidential veto.

If the Democratic majority would have allowed us a vote on the Graham 
amendment, we could have stood here today and told the troops that 
rest, training, and equipment are on the way. But, instead, we are 
going to dangle all of these things in front of them knowing they won't 
be delivered. The Democratic majority is trying to force us to make a 
false choice between these two options, to pit the troops against their 
Commander in Chief. This is not just foolish, it is wrong. By putting 
limits on the President's authority to control forces in the field, the 
Webb amendment also amounts to a back-door effort to hamstring the 
Petraeus plan. It is the first vote on a strategy that has not been 
fully manned for just about a month. Every Senator in this Chamber 
knows we will get a progress report on General Petraeus's strategy in 
September, 2 months from now. We should wait for that assessment before 
rushing to judgment.

A Democratic-led Senate sent General Petraeus to Iraq, confirmed his 
nomination unanimously. He has a plan. He is executing it. We need to 
let him do his work. Let me say again, the Webb amendment contains a 
policy objective that Republicans enthusiastically share. What we do 
not share is the belief that the President's constitutional powers as 
Commander in Chief should be eroded by politicians in Washington in a 
time of war as this debate proceeds.

We will debate a number of amendments that seek to limit the 
President's authority and dictate operational plans for the war in 
Iraq. I expect that at least some of them will seek to order an 
immediate withdrawal of our combat forces. These amendments would 
provide a direct way to end our involvement in Iraq, and the Senate 
will consider them in due course. But the Webb amendment is


different. It would curtail the deployment of reinforcements to Iraq, 
denying our military commanders the ability to sustain current force 
levels in Iraq, especially in Anbar Province, where most agree there 
has been considerable evidence of success. The Defense Department 
establishes dwell times through policies that have been developed over 
time by our commanders and leaders. Those leaders in turn respond to 
the requests of commanders in the field. The waiver contained in the 
Webb amendment sets an unreasonably high bar.

Republicans, meanwhile, will insist on amendments that protect the 
Nation's ability to defeat terrorists and wage war against al-Qaida. 
Therefore, I urge a ''no'' vote against the Webb amendment as it seeks 
to limit the President's authority as Commander in Chief and will deny 
our field commanders operational forces. I urge my colleagues to do the 
same.

Before yielding the floor, I wish to go back a minute to the 60-vote 
threshold issue with which I began my remarks. The suggestion has been 
made from the other side that somehow it is unusual to have a 60-vote 
threshold. Let's take a look at some of the votes we have had on Iraq 
proposals this very year. We agreed to a 60-vote threshold on the Gregg 
and Murray amendments as side by sides which answered the all-important 
question of whether to fund the troops. We have had 60-vote thresholds 
on vote No. 43, the Biden resolution; vote No. 44, the Levin 
resolution; vote No. 51, the Reid resolution; vote No. 74, the Reid 
resolution; vote No. 117, the supplemental funding bill; vote No. 167, 
the Feingold amendment; vote No. 168, the Warner amendment; vote No. 
169, the Cochran amendment; and vote No. 171, the Reid amendment. On 
all of these controversial Iraq proposals, we didn't have a simple 
majority threshold but a 60-vote threshold. So the notion that is being 
spun on the other side that this is somehow an unusual event is absurd 
on its face. All you have to do is look at the record this year and, 
not to mention, be reasonably alert to the way the Senate has operated. 
For most of the time since I have been here, controversial measures, we 
know, require 60 votes. Let me explain the reason for that.

Any one of the hundred Senators can object to a time agreement that 
would allow a matter to be dealt with, with under 60 votes. That is an 
option frequently exercised in this body on both sides of the aisle. 
What we have done, as a practical matter in dealing with the Iraq 
debates this year, is recognize the obvious, which is that it would be 
difficult on these controversial measures for the leaders of either 
party to produce an up-or-down vote. Therefore, we have simply agreed 
to have a 60-vote vote, and it considerably expedites consideration of 
measures and prevents having to file cloture, running the risk that if 
cloture is invoked, somebody will require that we use 30 more hours in 
addition to that. In short, there is a sensible way to move forward on 
this bill. I hope we will adopt it later this afternoon and move on 
through with this very important measure for the defense of our 
country.

I yield the floor.