# None
## `359308f56e222c3b72215b56a6e86c1e`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much. And as we speak, there 
are those in the Capitol dome trying to make sure that children's 
health care gets its fair share from this country of ours.

I would just like to share with the Members some of the good things 
that are happening under the Capitol dome.

We have passed, Mr. Speaker, a number of measures that have been 
bipartisan and major as it relates to legislation. The 9/11 Commission 
recommendations are something that the House and Senate both passed, 
and that was signed into law. The largest college aid expansion since 
the 1944 GI Bill saved, on average for every student, I would say 
almost every American because, as it relates to college loans and 
student loans, the responsibility for paying many of those loans back 
fall back on parents and grandparents. So that's $4,400 in interest 
that the American people don't have to pay.

The first minimum wage increase in a very long time, double-digit 
years, was passed by this Congress. And it was because of the 
Democratic leadership and some of our friends on the Republican side 
that voted for the passage of that bill that we now have an increase in 
the minimum wage.

Innovation Agenda to promote 21st century jobs, passed by this House, 
signed into law. The Reconstruction Assistance Program for gulf coast 
disasters and hurricanes was passed and signed into law. The largest 
veterans health care increase in the 77-year history of the VA passed 
off of this floor and is still in a holding pattern as it relates to 
that becoming law or empowered by not only the President but the 
legislative process. Also, the landmark Energy Independence and Global 
Warming Initiative that was passed by this Congress.

Now, I think it's important that we look at the record-breaking roll 
call votes that have been taken thus far by this Congress and the work 
philosophy that we have in the 110th Congress versus previous 
Congresses. And you know that two of the initiatives that have passed 
on a bipartisan vote that I did not mention that the President has 
vetoed was the expansion of the life-saving medical research on stem 
cells that passed in a bipartisan way by this House and by the Senate 
and was vetoed by the President. And the most recent veto is the one 
that's dealing with health care for 10 million children and working 
families that passed off this floor on a bipartisan vote, came 13 votes 
shy last week of overriding the President's bad veto, had the votes in 
the Senate to do so, but it's something that we're working on right 
now, Mr. Speaker. And that's one of the reasons why I came to the floor 
today, and my other colleagues that will be joining me a little later 
on, to talk about the SCHIP plan.

I can tell you, as we stand here, Mr. Speaker, to address these 
issues dealing with children's health care, one said, when I was on the 
floor last week, well, the Congressman is talking about health care. 
The CHAMP, or SCHIP, bill is dealing with insurance. Well, I can tell 
you, when you're talking about insurance, you're talking about health 
care. If you don't have insurance, you're not going to be able to 
afford health care, especially the preventive care that the CHAMP bill 
or the SCHIP bill calls for. So, if you take the opportunity to go meet 
the average American that has a child that is not covered under health 
insurance, you're going to find an individual who will share with you 
that, without it, they can't go to many of the doctors offices where 
they can at least pay a small fraction or at least afford preventive 
care and the annual checkups that children need.

We're in a situation right now, Mr. Speaker, that we have children, 
if this SCHIP bill or CHAMP bill is not reauthorized, we're going to 
have children without health care, without health insurance. Whichever 
way you cut the cookie, they're going to need a way to pay for health 
care or you might as well look forward to parents going down the 
drugstore aisle trying to correct the sniffles and trying to head off 
fever and trying to head off other situations that young children run 
into. But those are just the minor issues. What about the bigger issues 
that, if detected early, can be prevented if we have the kind of health 
insurance that would be helpful for children?

As we start to look at a re-approach on this bill after the 
President's veto, I know that the Speaker and others, and in reading 
through not only the newspapers but also in meetings that have taken 
place, we are still holding hard on the 10 million children insured. 
Now, I think that's very, very important that we head in that direction 
and that we stand firm on the 10 million.

Last week, I was sharing with many of my Republican colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle, those of whom were in the 13, because there 
are some that are saying that they are with the American people, they 
don't necessarily have to be with the Democratic Caucus because this is 
not about the Republican Conference or the Democratic Caucus, this is 
about children having an opportunity to have health insurance to be 
able to have quality health care, and that's what it's about. And I 
want to commend my colleagues that are on the other side that have 
voted on behalf of not only their districts but young people in America 
and their families.

So, now we're down to correcting a wrong. Last week, I talked about 
the story, Mr. Speaker. In all great pieces of legislation and every 
initiative there is always a story before you get to the glory, and 
we're still writing the story. And I think, as we go into the final 
chapters of this SCHIP debate here in the House of Representatives and 
the Senate and we deliver another product to the President of the 
United States, I think it's important for those who voted against 
overriding the President on this issue, think about what you have done. 
You might not have felt the full brunt of the displeasure of the 
American people for the Congress, where many of our children are 
insured because we have health insurance and we have the kind of 
insurance that will cover our children, and that there are families 
that don't celebrate the same thing that we do, that there is going to 
be a great level of displeasure out there. And I want to say that out 
loud because I want to make sure that Members understand exactly what 
they're doing.

No one came to Congress to vote against health care for children. I 
don't think anyone jumped up and said at any political forum or debate, 
when they were debating, need it be a Republican primary or a 
Democratic primary, to say, ''You know, one of my goals when I get to 
Congress is that I'm going to vote against children's health care.'' I 
think they wouldn't have even made it to the Halls of Congress. I'm 
speaking to that individual Member that decided not to, whatever the 
situation may be.

I haven't seen, in my 14 years of public service, Mr. Speaker, a bill 
that I am 110 percent in support of and agree with every section in 
that bill. When we put together legislation, there is always something 
in the bill that you wish you could have more of or not have at all in 
the bill. And it's very unfortunate, especially when we're in a body of 
compromise, when we're talking about children that will become 
uninsured if we don't pass this bill, I think it's important for us to 
realize our place in this debate. I commend those that voted. You were 
supposed to vote for that. I'm glad you did. I'm glad you voted for the 
SCHIP program.

Let me just run some numbers. One may say, well, we're concerned 
about cost as it relates to providing insurance for children to have 
health care. Well, one day we're going to compare this as it relates to 
war, because a lot of folks get into the chest-beating posture or 
session when it comes down to the war in Iraq. And we're concerned 
about what happens with children tens


of thousands of miles from the United States of America. I'm concerned, 
also. But I'm really concerned about what is happening with children 
here in the United States. And I think it's something that we all 
should pay very, very close attention to.


One day in Iraq costs $330 million. That will cover 270,000 kids. One 
week in Iraq costs $2.3 billion. That's 1.8 million kids who can be 
covered under the children's health care bill. One month in Iraq is $10 
billion. That's one month that can cover 8.1 million children as it 
relates to health care. And the cost of 40 days in Iraq is $12.2 
billion. That will cover 10 million kids' health care. I think it's 
important to look at just over one month that will cover a full year of 
health care for 10 million children. Just a couple of days over the 
average month will cover 10 million children.

So, when we start lining our priorities up of where we stand as a 
Congress, and I'm talking to the real minority here because there are 
very few Members of this House that are voting opposite of where the 
American people want us to be, and that's providing health care. Polls 
have shown here in the United States over 80 percent of Americans are 
saying that it's important for us to have children's health care. So, 
you have a very small percentage saying that they don't agree with 
this, and maybe they need more information.

But when you have Members of Congress, and we're talking about lights 
on, lights off, health care for 10 million children or not, that's a 
simple decision for one to make. If you have issues with the 
application of it, it has to be better than what we will not have if we 
don't reauthorize it and reauthorize it for 10 million children.

I think it's important that you understand a number of the coalitions 
that are here. And I'm spending the time on the floor, Mr. Speaker, to 
share this with the Members because this is, A, what do we look for in 
legislation? We look for bipartisanship. That's what the American 
people always say. They would love for Democrats and Republicans to 
work together. You have that in this bill. I mean, for this to be a 
partisan body, you have to look at the significance of having a 
bipartisan piece of legislation with major Democrats and major 
Republicans that are on board on the legislation.

You also have to look at the second issue that I think is very, very 
important; the fact that it passed both House and Senate 
overwhelmingly. And you have to look at that as a component and a proof 
to the leadership and the reason why we have to insure children, 10 
million children in the United States of America. That's very, very 
significant. Don't let anyone belittle the work that has happened on 
both sides of the aisle with Democrats and Republicans sending a bill 
to the President.

I would also add on to that point the fact that the President vetoed 
the bill. And you had a commitment from the Senate, the United States 
Senate, that they would override the President of the United States on 
this issue because he's wrong. That's what is so good about our 
democracy. That goes back, not just a bill on Capitol Hill, it goes 
back to those days that used to come on Saturday morning to let young 
Americans know how this process worked. And then in the House we took 
the vote and we fell 13 votes short of overriding the President. That's 
very, very significant.

I came last week and commended those groups, those nonpartisan, 
volunteer groups that are dealing with children's diabetes, that are 
dealing with a number of issues, polio, the doctors that came to 
Capitol Hill, the March of Dimes, all the different foundations that 
are out there doing good things and passing good information out and 
encouraging Members to sign on and get that vote. We couldn't have had 
the kind of vote that we had last week if it wasn't for those outside 
organizations and Americans and parents and grandparents and children 
saying we should have health care.



When they see the kind of numbers that I am reading off, spending 
$330 million in Iraq in 1 day, that's just 1 day. I can get down to 
$3,300 and change every second that we are spending in Iraq. And you 
have folks here that are mumbling and grumbling about the cost of an 
insurance bill that will provide health care to 10 million children, we 
have 40 plus Governors out there in the 50 States that are out there 
saying that we need this bill. I want to break this down because I want 
to make sure that the Members, I don't want to use a lot of acronyms, I 
don't want to get into a lot of programs and all of that because I'm on 
the Ways and Means Committee and there's enough acronyms there to talk 
about health care. I'm on the Armed Services Committee and there is a 
plethora of acronyms that we could use there and all kind of big words. 
I want to make sure that everyone understands what it comes down to. 
You are either with insuring 10 million children or you're not. Period. 
Dot. There is no in between. There is no ''maybe I need to take more 
consideration'' or ''maybe I need to look at this a little further.'' 
We have already taken one vote that has passed the House 
overwhelmingly. We have already taken a second vote that fell 13 votes 
short of a two-thirds vote to override the President of the United 
States. And now we're about to take another vote. So it's almost like 
three strikes and you're out.

Mr. Speaker, I have been on this floor now coming on 5 years, 
speaking not only to the Members but also making sure that staff and 
everyone else understands the significance of every vote that we take. 
And if this was about politics, I always say it, look in the 
Congressional Record time after time again, if it was about politics, I 
could just sit in my office and let just the electoral process take its 
course.

I do believe that Members who are not voting for children's health 
care are making a career decision. That's what they're doing. Now, if 
this is the last day of school for Members and they're retiring after 
this term that is a whole other thing. But for those who want to 
continue to serve not only their districts and the American people, 
they have to pay very close attention to the vote that they are taking 
here on this floor. Insuring 10 million kids is bigger, in my opinion, 
than winning some sort of, you know, one or two political races. I am 
not into that. I was sent here to Congress, and many of us were sent, 
all of us were sent here to represent the folks back home. And I 
guarantee you, the folks back home are not saying, ''Please don't 
insure children. Whatever you do, Congressman, make sure you don't 
insure 10 million children or 5 million children. Just make sure you 
don't do that, and you have my vote.'' There is not anyone back there 
saying that. And so I think it's important for us, when we get into 
this process, I think it's important for us to share with Members what 
we are here for. Like I said, once again, there are some things in the 
bill that I don't agree with, but when you start talking about the 
insurance for children that my children celebrate, I wasn't elected for 
me to have my children to have health care and I look at my 
constituents and say, ''Run for Congress one day and you can be like 
me.'' That's not what it's about. It's about us being able to stand for 
them.

I think it's also important to look at even with some of the media 
accounts about some of the things that are going on here in Washington 
that we are working hard on, the Democratic side of the aisle, because 
Americans voted for change, Mr. Speaker. They didn't vote for the 
status quo. Republicans had the majority last time. There were 
Democrats and Republicans and independents who said, You know 
something, we gave you an opportunity. My kids and my grandkids and the 
fiscal situation this country is in is more important than my party 
affiliation. And we have seen throughout the country, Republicans say, 
''I'm going to vote for the Democrat this time because I want to see 
change.'' Now that change is here and I read off a list of bills that 
were passed in a bipartisan way. These are not just Democratic bills, 
we beat our chests and say, ''Not one Republican voted for it.'' Yes, 
there are one or two there. But the majority of the major bills that 
have passed have passed with some Republican votes, and that is 
important to the process.

USA Today, War Costs May Total $2.4 trillion. When you look at the 
cost of the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, it could cost $2.4 trillion 
the next decade or nearly $8,000 per man, woman and child in this 
country according to the Congressional Budget Office that is


scheduled for release and that took place here today earlier. A 
previous Congressional Budget Office estimate put the war cost at more 
than $1.6 trillion. This one adds to the $705 in interest. And if you 
take into account, Mr. Speaker, as we continue to go on as it relates 
to the war in Iraq, as we look at the borrowing from foreign nations 
and then we turn around and we also bring a bill, I'm going to add to 
those points, we bring a bill that we show how we are going to pay for 
the bill so that we don't have to continue to borrow from foreign 
nations, so that we don't have to continue to see our kids having to 
pay some $8,000 per man, woman and child because of the decisions that 
were made here on this floor in previous Congresses.

So how do we have a paradigm shift? Well, we come about bringing 
about that paradigm shift through good policy and bipartisanship. So I 
am speaking to the 13 that voted against, helped us fall short of that, 
of overriding the President. It could have been a different day the 
following day after that vote, but it wasn't because we had some of our 
Republican friends not voting with us.

I am going to put a pin there, and I am going to allow my good friend 
from Ohio (Mr. Ryan). First of all, I just want to say, sir, that I'm 
sorry about your Indians. I'm really sorry. As you know, I e-mailed you 
and told you that I was with you. Being a Dolphins fan, I'm switching 
sports now, but I'm having a rough year, and I wanted someone to have 
some joy that I knew. And I know you, sir, and I know you're excited 
about your Cleveland Indians. And they fought hard. But I'm sorry, sir, 
that they didn't make it through the process.