# CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `35a9df15f55ff5d76306361df89717f9`
`Mr. COCHRAN â€” 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I am pleased to be able to join my 
distinguished friend from West Virginia in advising the Senate that we 
have before us the Omnibus appropriations bill. It has been a long and 
difficult road getting to this point.

The President, in February, delivered a budget request to the 
Congress that included a robust increase for our Armed Forces, very few 
increases for nondefense discretionary programs, along with many 
proposed program cuts. Then, in the spring, the new majority in 
Congress laid out a very different vision for discretionary programs, 
one that called for some $23 billion in additional spending. We have 
before us an Omnibus appropriations bill that reflects many of the 
spending priorities of the Congress, both from the majority and 
minority perspectives, but the bill also reflects the very real concern 
about overall spending levels held by the President and most Members, 
certainly on the Republican side of the aisle.

The bill is, without question, an imperfect product of an imperfect 
process, but I think every Member of this body would rather have the 
opportunity to vote on appropriations bills individually rather than 
lumped together in one giant omnibus bill. I regret that the Senate did 
not take up and consider all 12 of the appropriations bills 
individually. When we fail to take up all of the bills, we invite the 
creation of an omnibus bill, lumping all the other bills together, such 
as this one, and we weaken the opportunity for the Senate to influence 
the content of these bills and shape the final legislation. I hope next 
year the leader will redouble his efforts to make time for 
consideration of all the appropriations bills, even though it is quite 
possible that we will again disagree with the President over 
appropriate amounts of discretionary spending.

Having said that, this omnibus bill is, in my view, superior to many 
of its predecessors in one sense: It contains virtually none of the 
legislative matter that is so often added to omnibus bills. And I give 
great credit to the chairman, my friend from West Virginia, and our two 
leaders, Mr. Reid and Mr. McConnell, for this fact. The business of the 
Appropriations Committee is complicated enough without importing 
legislative baggage from other committees in a way that often undercuts 
the delicate bipartisan and bicameral negotiations in other arenas.

I also note that the bill includes none of the riders or funding 
prohibitions that the President previously identified as likely to 
prompt a veto. While I am sure this is a disappointment to some 
Senators, it is an important factor in our being able to support the 
omnibus portion of this bill.

I also wish to touch briefly on the subject of earmarks. Much has 
been made about earmarking throughout the year. Clearly, there have 
been past cases of abuse, just as historically there have been abuses 
of legislative powers in other areas. I hope the heightened scrutiny 
and transparency of the appropriations process will eliminate any such 
abuses going forward. The Appropriations Committee and its staff have 
made extraordinary efforts to add transparency to the process going 
back to well before the enactment of the ethics reform bill.

I think all Senators are comfortable in openly defending the funding 
priorities they advocate and suggest be included in appropriations 
bills, and they should be. This is another reason why it is so 
important that the Senate make time to consider all of the 
appropriations bills in an orderly process.

The total amount of congressional earmarks funded in this bill is 
well below the level included in the fiscal year 2006 appropriations 
bills. I know the amount is reduced because we hear the protests from 
our colleagues and from our constituents as well. Whether the amount of 
earmarking in this bill is ideal, I don't know. I suppose it depends on 
the interests of the beholder. What I do know is Congress should never 
yield its right or its power to make annual spending decisions and 
include those decisions in the appropriations bills. Congress should 
not leave it up to the executive branch, and it should not be persuaded 
that last year's decisions are the right ones for the next year. That 
is why we have an annual process. Enacting a long-term, continuing 
resolution might appear to be an easy way to avoid controversy and 
disagreements. It is an abdication of our responsibilities.


If Congress has to undergo vetoes of appropriations bills and make 
modifications to bills as a result, so be it. But ultimately we need to 
finish our work in a timely fashion and provide Federal agencies and 
departments with a set of directives and spending priorities that 
reflect the collective will of the legislative branch in consultation 
with the executive branch. That is why we have hearings at the 
beginning of the annual appropriations process, to get the views of the 
administrators of the programs, to invite executives from the various 
departments to tell us what their challenges are, tell us what the 
President's priorities are, what the Cabinet Secretaries have to say 
about their needs and their suggestions for appropriate funding levels. 
We take those into account. These are serious issues that have to be 
considered by the Congress. That is what the Appropriations Committee 
tries to do every year, in reviewing the President's budget requests 
and the information we receive at our annual hearings.

Finally, I wish to say something about a part of this bill that is 
without question one that has to be fixed. The amendment adopted by the 
House of Representatives includes $31 billion to fund the deployment of 
American men and women overseas in the global war on terror. But the 
House amendment restricts operating funds to those fighting in 
Afghanistan and does very little to support our troops deployed in 
Iraq. While I understand the political needle the House was attempting 
to thread when it wrote this amendment, I think the message it sends to 
our men and women who are deployed in these countries is unfortunate.



The Senate dedicated a serious amount of floor time to the debate of 
Iraq policy this year. The debate was, of course, earnest and sometimes 
informative. Amendments have been offered and votes were taken on 
issues related to the war. Yet while the debates demonstrated a strong 
and sincere desire among Members to successfully conclude operations in 
Iraq as quickly as possible, there remains no broad consensus on any 
particular alternative to the policy currently advocated by the 
President or Ambassador Crocker or General Petraeus.

Let's be honest, that policy has produced undeniable successes in 
recent months. I am sure deeply felt disagreements remain on the 
subject of Iraq policy. But we have tens of thousands of American men 
and women who are deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan, performing missions 
assigned to them by our Government and with the blessing of Congress at 
the outset. Those men and women need the resources to succeed. To try 
to change American policy in Iraq by slowly starving our troops of 
resources they need is unfair to them and very dangerous to our 
Nation's interests. We should reject the House language and provide 
adequate funding to support our troops until well into next year.

I wish to end my remarks by thanking and commending our chairman, Mr. 
Byrd, my dear friend. We have worked together in writing and 
negotiating these appropriations bills and this package that is coming 
before the Senate. I know we haven't been able to agree on everything, 
but we have reached an accommodation so that we present this now at 
this point and urge its adoption. I thank all Senators who served with 
us on the committee for their diligent efforts.

Last year, we had a large appropriations train wreck. We do not want 
that again. It produced a large supplemental funding bill. But we 
brought together a bill this year, despite new rules and hard 
negotiations--renegotiations. I thank all our members for their hard 
work on both sides of the appropriations committee, and I am happy we 
will be able to present this bill to the Senate.