# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `35ceae8eac0b66f7f10d1297f67aaf3b`
`Mr. YOUNG of Alaska â€” 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of 2764, 
which provides, among other things, $500 million for the Commanders 
Emergency Response Program (CERP). Our continued support for this 
program is vital for winning the war on terror and ensuring stability 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. General Petraeus himself recently described it 
as ''a critical tool with which to prosecute the counterinsurgency 
campaign.''

Our continued support for CERP will be especially important for 
achieving long term success in Iraq. The Iraqi people must be convinced 
that their lives are getting better and that their future is one of 
peace and prosperity, rather than violence and sectarian strife. As 
David Ignatius pointed out this morning in the Washington Post, ''the 
success of the U.S. troop surge seems to be bolstering, ever so 
slightly, the advocates of conciliation and weakening the partisans of 
sectarian war.'' However, ''[t]he recent progress in Iraq has resulted 
from bottom-up efforts to build trust, neighborhood by neighborhood.'' 
CERP has proven to be one of the key tools in this effort.

CERP allows our military commanders and civil affairs officers on the 
ground in Iraq and Afghanistan to respond to urgent humanitarian relief 
and reconstruction requirements within their areas of responsibility by 
carrying out programs that will immediately assist the indigenous 
population. The funding is allocated to brigade commanders to support a 
wide variety of small-scale relief and reconstruction projects, 
including reconstruction of water and sanitation facilities, school 
repair, restoring power stations, lines and generators, providing 
humanitarian relief, renovating cultural centers, museums and 
libraries, and repairing telecommunications infrastructure.

Most importantly, CERP grants can be dispensed quickly and applied 
directly to local needs, rather than slowed down by the bureaucratic 
process in Washington and watered down by foreign contractors and 
subcontractors. As Secretary Gates recently explained in his testimony 
before Congress, ''. . .by building trust and confidence in Coalition 
forces, these CERP projects increase the flow of intelligence to 
commanders in the field and help turn local Iraqis and Afghans against 
insurgents and terrorists.''

CERP could also serve to be a key component in helping to normalize 
the more than 2 million internally displaced Iraqis and provide a 
stable environment for the more than 2 million externally displaced in 
neighboring countries to return home.

The Iraqi Red Crescent Organization (IRCO), for example, has recently 
proposed a one-year plan to normalize up to 600,000 internally 
displaced residents of Baghdad into 120 self sustaining neighborhood 
units. The IRCO Neighborhood Reconstruction Program (NRP) could help 
provide unemployed IDPs with the opportunity to construct and service 
approximately 100,000 homes, 440 schools, 132 mobile health clinics, 60 
water treatment plants, and 44 electrical generators. With the 
financial support of CERP and the Government of Iraq, this program 
would be coordinated through IRCO's existing 44 offices in Baghdad and, 
within a year, these formerly displaced people would have the 
opportunity live in homes with electricity and water, within 
neighborhoods that have access to nearby healthcare, schools, and jobs.

We have an obligation to continue funding CERP so that the Iraqi and 
Afghan people can build peaceful and prosperous societies for 
themselves. The sooner this occurs, the quicker our troops can come 
home.