# None
## `35e4864dca99c2aaf74ca1c164d0ca91`
`Mr. KYL â€” 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, I will make 
two quick comments. Certainly I respect the majority leader's comments. 
He talked about the fact that violence is down in Iraq. But, of course, 
the suicide bombers continue to wreak havoc. We all deplore that.

I was in Israel last week at the border town in Gaza--Sderot is the 
name--and terrorism from Hamas continues to bedevil the people of that 
town with rockets coming over every day. But they cannot leave and 
leave the terrorists to prevail there. I think the same thing is the 
situation in Iraq.

The majority leader talks about the costs, and they are significant. 
But the costs if we had to come back in and clean up after the 
terrorists take over, if we left prematurely, could be far greater than 
what we are expected to have to pay. In any event, it is very difficult 
to put a price on freedom and security.

I think we have had a good debate. We have speakers on our side 
actually for about another about 4/1/2/ hours or so. But as I told the 
majority leader, we could yield back some time on our side to work with 
the majority leader to develop a schedule that would be convenient for 
all of the Members.

At this time, because of the precise nature of the unanimous consent 
request, I object on behalf of the minority but would suggest it should 
be possible this afternoon, early this afternoon, for the majority and 
minority leaders to sit down and work out a schedule that would meet 
the needs of all of our Members and convenient for the entire body.