# None
## `35f3c25c3aba68d19ebced9feeb3a75c`
`Mr. BUYER â€” 4 March 2009`

---


Mr. BUYER. Madam Speaker, I am pleased to introduce a bill to provide 
an increase in the amount payable to disabled veterans under the 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Home Improvement and Structural 
Alteration Program.

Known as the HISA program, this important VA benefit provides grants 
to seriously disabled veterans who require home adaptations to provide 
access to in-home medical care.

Typically, HISA grants are used for such things as widening doors; 
putting in handrails or special lighting; making kitchens, bathrooms, 
windows, or electrical outlets and switches more accessible; building 
ramps or improving entrance paths and driveways.

The benefit is paid from the medical care appropriation and is 
available to both veterans with service-connected and non-service 
connected disabilities. A service-connected veteran can receive a HISA 
grant in addition to other home adaptations grants available through 
the Veterans Benefits Administration.

Congress first authorized VA to establish the HISA program as part of 
outpatient care for home health services in 1973. We have been engaged 
in the Global War on Terror for nearly eight years and are seeing an 
increasing number of servicemembers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan 
utilizing VA health care. It is especially important that this program 
remains relevant and can meet the needs of our newest generation of 
veterans.

The current maximum amount of a HISA grant is $4,100 for service-
connected veterans and $1,200 for non-service connected veterans. This 
amount was established by Congress in 1992 and has not been raised in 
seventeen years.

My bill would increase the maximum amount of the grants to $6,800 for 
service-connected veterans and $2,000 for non-service connected 
veterans. This recommended increase reflects a three percent increase 
for each year since 1992. It accounts for inflation and the increased 
cost of home modifications.

I urge my colleagues to join me in cosponsoring this legislation. It 
would have a direct and immediate impact on improving health care and 
the quality of life for our disabled veterans.
