# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `35fee9d60fe6985289d16a8b1e95ec10`
`Mr. HATCH â€” 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I pay tribute to three members of 
Hill Air Force Base's 75th Air Base Wing who, together, lost their 
lives in Iraq in performance of their duties. Tsgt Timothy Weiner of 
Tamarack, FL, SrA Daniel Miller of Galesburg, IL, and SrA Elizabeth 
Loncki of New Castle, DE, were killed while disarming an explosive 
device.

One of the core values of the Air Force is ''Service Before Self.'' 
These airmen met this standard every day while disarming improvised 
explosive devices and destroying munitions to protect their fellow 
servicemen and the people of Iraq. All three knew the risks inherent in 
their assignment, but still chose to volunteer so that others may be 
safe.

Technical Sergeant Weiner was the youngest of four sons of Ken 
Weiner, a Korean war veteran, and Marcia Fenster. It should be noted 
that all the sons of the Weiner family have worn the uniform of their 
Nation. Technical Sergeant Weiner's mother said, ''he was a 
unbelievable father and husband who could do a job that was rough and 
so demanding but was also a man who could show love and was not afraid 
to.''

This was Sergeant Weiner's second tour in Iraq. His professionalism 
is best exemplified by the fact that, in a previous assignment, he was 
part of explosive ordnance disposal team that provided protection for 
the President. He is survived by his wife Debbie and son Jonathan. The 
technical sergeant had planned to retire within a couple of years and 
work with computers. Now our prayers go with his wife and son.

SrA Airman Daniel Miller was the oldest of six children of Daniel B. 
Miller and Robin Mahnesmith. He is remembered by his family and friends 
as a happy person, who loved football, enjoyed hunting and fishing and 
was a silent leader. His girlfriend Dana Sopher stated ''the love he 
had for his family was just amazing.'' Senior Airman Miller knew of the 
risk of his job but still believed that you ''just have to live life.'' 
Senior Airman Miller had hoped to work for a metropolitan bomb squad 
after he had completed his service with the Air Force. I know I join 
with all of my colleagues in praying for his family during these 
difficult times.

SrA Elizabeth Loncki was also the oldest child of Stephen and 
stepmother Christine Loncki, who still plans on sending cookies and 
baked goods to troops in Iraq. After learning of her death, one of her 
training instructors contacted Senior Airman Lonki's family and 
recounted that Elizabeth had excelled at her explosive ordnance 
disposal training class and was a valuable member of any team. Senior 
Airman Loncki planned on getting married after she returned from Iraq; 
her future fiance was to visit her parents shortly and ask permission 
for the senior airman's hand in marriage. He has since accompanied her 
home to her family. Again our prayers go to her family.

All three of these airmen were heroes in the truest sense of the 
word. They volunteered for one of the most dangerous jobs in our 
Nation's military and risked their lives every day. Their sacrifice was 
not in vain, their bravery in the face of danger is an example to us 
all. They met and exceeded the Air Force principle of ''Service Before 
Self.''














captain brian s. freeman


Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to recognize the 
loss of CPT Brian S. Freeman whose mother, Kathleen Snyder, is a 
resident of Utah.

Captain Freeman died while performing his duties in Karbala, Iraq, 
where he was assigned to the 412th Civil Affairs Battalion, U.S. Army 
Reserve, based in Whitehall, OH.

Captain Freeman resided in Temecula, CA, with his wife Charlotte, a 
3-year-old son, Gunnar, and a 3-month-old daughter, Ingrid. The captain 
had just returned to Iraq after a 2-week Christmas leave. Charlotte 
Freeman commented about that time, ''We did all the family things 
packed into two weeks. It was wonderful. We had a picture perfect 
family and the two weeks were perfect.''

The captain was a 1999 West Point graduate who, after returning home, 
planned to attend graduate school. He had already received an important 
letter of recommendation from the Governor of Karbala who wrote: 
''Freeman has assisted in forming a warmer relationship with the Army . 
. . I think Capt. Freeman genuinely cares about what happens to Karbala 
and its people.''

For a member of a civil affairs unit, whose responsibility it is to 
assist the local population while developing and maintaining close 
relationships with indigenous government officials, I cannot think of 
any higher praise. Not surprisingly, Captain Freeman had been decorated 
with two Army commendation medals, two Army achievement medals, a 
national defense service medal and a global war on terrorism service 
medal. I also understand that he was a member of the Army's bobsledding 
team.

America has lost another decorated hero. Captain Freeman had hope to 
make a difference during his time in Iraq. I believe that anyone who 
looks at the life and actions of Captain Freeman will see that he more 
than achieved that goal.

Captain Freeman and his family will always be in my prayers.
