# SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
## `37193f063ea6dddb1a739d7ca3ca801f`
`Ms. SNOWE â€” 23 July 2009`

---


Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, I rise today to submit a resolution 
recognizing Lieutenant Commander Chris Cassidy, space shuttle mission 
specialist of the STS-127 space shuttle mission and the Expedition 19 
International Space Station mission, for becoming the 500th person to 
fly into space.

While Lieutenant Commander Chris Cassidy is a native of Salem, 
Massachusetts, he considers York, ME, his hometown, where he attended 
York High School. Chris has a very impressive academic background 
earning a bachelor of science in Mathematics from the U.S. Naval 
Academy, and a Master of Science in Ocean Engineering from the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Even more impressive is his ongoing service to his country. Chris 
spent 10 years as a U.S. Navy SEAL, which includes two tours in 
Afghanistan. During that time, he received numerous awards including 
the Bronze Star with the combat 'V' and the Presidential Unit Citation 
for leading a 9-day operation at the Zharwar Kili cave complex. This 
operation was a national priority objective directly on the Afghan/
Pakistan border. Lieutenant Commander Cassidy received a second Bronze 
Star for combat leadership service in Afghanistan in 2004. Chris was 
also a Quest speaker at the U.S. Naval Academy's 2003 and 2004 Combat 
Leadership Seminars.

Upon returning from his service, Chris was selected by the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration to begin astronaut training in 
2004 at NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston.

The space shuttle STS-127 mission is Lieutenant Commander Cassidy's 
first time in space. As this Nation celebrates the 40th anniversary of 
the Apollo 11 mission and the first man on the moon, Chris Cassidy 
becomes the 500th person to travel to space on the Space Shuttle 
Endeavor. The STS-127 mission's primary goal is to deliver the final 
components of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency's Kibo laboratory 
to the International Space Station, which will be essential to allowing 
astronauts to perform valuable science experiments that are exposed to 
the vacuum of space. In order to install those components, five space 
walks are scheduled for the 16-day mission and Chris is expected to 
perform three of them.

This resolution recognizes Space Shuttle Mission Specialist Navy 
Lieutenant Commander Chris Cassidy of STS-127 space shuttle mission and 
the Expedition 19 International Space Station mission and for becoming 
the 500th person in history to fly into space; and also commends him 
and the rest of the STS-127 Mission crew for risking their lives in the 
advance of science and human understanding. I hope my colleagues will 
join Senator Collins and me in supporting this resolution.
