# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `371e1bd44f94de41f03ecd4fd5400dad`
`Mrs. BOXER â€” 12 February 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I rise to speak about the FISA bill 
currently being considered by the Senate. I believe it is our duty to 
provide all the tools necessary to fight terrorism. We also have 
another duty--I would say a simultaneous duty, a sworn duty--to protect 
the constitutional rights of our citizens.

So we have two duties. One is to protect the American people and give 
the Government the tools it needs to do that; two, to protect the 
constitutional rights of Americans. If we lose those rights, then the 
basic freedoms of our people are at risk.

I believe we have fallen far short. We have fallen far short of the 
balance that we always need to look for, ever since the beginning of 
our Republic--


the balance between security and freedom. I think we missed it here.

It is not the Government's job to scare our people; it is the 
Government's job to protect our people. It is not the Government's job 
to endanger the privacy of law-abiding Americans, but to protect the 
privacy of law-abiding Americans. Sadly, we had a number of amendments 
to this bill which would have brought that balance I talked about into 
being, the balance between security and freedom.

Senator Feingold had an amendment limiting the use and dissemination 
of information unlawfully obtained through foreign surveillance on U.S. 
citizens. His amendment would have protected the rights of innocent 
U.S. citizens and provided a necessary balance to the bill. I was proud 
to support it because the bill, obviously, needed some more checks and 
balances.

Senator Feingold also had an amendment to provide protection against 
bulk collection of foreign communications that could include 
communications of innocent Americans. Again, this measure would have 
provided additional protection for the rights of American citizens, and 
I was proud to support it because I believe we need, again, additional 
checks on enhanced Government surveillance authority.

My colleague and friend from California, Senator Feinstein, had an 
amendment that stated a very important principle: that FISA, the 
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, is the exclusive authority for 
conducting foreign intelligence surveillance.

Why is that important? It is important because this administration 
argues time and again that ''it has inherent authority'' to conduct 
warrantless surveillance, or that Congress somehow gave them the 
authority when it authorized the use of military force in Iraq--a 
ridiculous claim. The Feinstein amendment was a very important 
amendment because it would have made it clear that FISA is the 
exclusive authority, pure and simple.

Why was that important going forward? We don't want to have this 
administration or another one in the future--I don't care which party 
they are from--spying on the American people and then saying: It is 
true, we didn't obey FISA, but we thought it was important to go 
outside the law. If we had adopted the Feinstein amendment, we would 
have clearly stated that FISA is the law when it comes to conducting 
surveillance on our own people.

The Feinstein amendment--which failed, sadly by only 1 or 2 votes 
short of the 60-vote hurdle--said we are not going to lose our 
freedoms, we are not going to allow another administration to spy on 
us; FISA is going to be the one and only law that pertains here.

Finally, there is the issue of immunity for telecommunications 
companies that cooperated with the administration's warrantless 
surveillance program. We know that American law did not give these 
telephone companies the authority to do what they did, but they were 
somehow persuaded by the administration to go along with them. Not 
every telephone company, not every communications company did go along. 
At least one said: Look, we think this is not legal; show us the 
legality. And they stood, I think, in firm support of their consumers.

Here is the problem with granting immunity. Congress has not been 
given complete information on this program. We do not know the level of 
involvement by the telephone companies and the telecom companies. We 
need complete information; we have incomplete information. How can I be 
a good Senator, how can I do a good job if I don't have the facts 
surrounding this whole matter of the warrantless surveillance program? 
When you put out that immunity, you basically stop the court cases, and 
if you stop the court cases, we will never get to the bottom of this 
issue and our citizens will never know who was spied on, why were they 
spied on, what happened, what went wrong, what went right, and how much 
power this Government tried to exercise over its people illegally.

Granting immunity without fully understanding whether our people were 
illegally spied upon and to what extent, I find that irresponsible. 
Where is our pride? We wrote a law that said phone companies cannot do 
this, and they went ahead and did it. Not all of them. Now we are 
saying: Never mind, President Bush and Vice President Cheney write the 
law, they make the decision. It is not right. It is not American. It is 
anti-American. It is not what we do in this great country.

President Bush says we are sending our troops overseas to fight for 
freedom, fight for democracy, and at home they ask the telecom 
companies to break the law. They spied on Americans, and we cannot find 
out what they did, how they did it, the details of the program, and now 
we are going to now grant immunity. I cannot believe that we didn't do 
better on that particular amendment. That amendment failed. Again, I 
was proud to stand with Senator Dodd and Senator Feingold on the 
amendment.

In closing, I don't believe this bill strikes the kind of balance we 
need between broadening the Government's authority to conduct 
surveillance and protecting the rights of our citizens. We did have 
many chances today to increase the oversight of FISA surveillance 
programs. We had many opportunities to hold this administration 
accountable and future administrations accountable while giving them 
what they need to go after the bad actors, those who would harm us. I 
voted to get bin Laden. I voted to go to war against al-Qaida. I voted 
no on the Iraq war because that was a diversion. I want to get the 
terrorists who perpetrated 9/11. I want to give any administration the 
tools they need, but I do not want to expose my constituents and the 
people of America who are law-abiding and caring and all they live for 
is for their families--I don't want to subject them to being spied 
upon.

Unfortunately, those amendments all went down. It is sad for me to 
say that we have a bill that steps on the rights of the freedoms of our 
people, of the law-abiding Americans in our country and, therefore, I 
cannot support it.

Mr. President, I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum, 
and I ask that the time be taken equally off both sides.