# None
## `382e7a98e158115ab51ed30dbfa3a9a5`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 1036 provides for 
consideration of House Concurrent Resolution 312, the Concurrent 
Resolution on the Budget for FY 2009, under a structured rule.

The rule provides a total of 4 hours of general debate, 3 hours to be 
controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on the Budget and 1 hour on the subject of economic goals and policies 
to be controlled by Representative Maloney of New York and 
Representative Saxton of New Jersey.

The rule makes in order the three substitute amendments: one by 
Representative Kilpatrick of Michigan; one by Representative Lee of 
California; and a final substitute by Representative Ryan of Wisconsin. 
Each amendment is debatable for 60 minutes. The rule also permits the 
chairman of the Budget Committee to offer amendments in the House to 
achieve mathematical consistency. Finally, the rule provides that the 
concurrent resolution shall not be subject to a demand for division of 
the question of its adoption.

Mr. Speaker, this is the traditional rule for consideration of the 
budget resolution, and I welcome today's debate on the alternative 
budgets that will be presented by the Republican leadership, the 
Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional Progressive Caucus.

Mr. Speaker, I want to begin by expressing my thanks and appreciation 
to Budget Committee Chairman Spratt and Ranking Member Ryan for their 
leadership and hard work on the House Budget Committee. Although they 
hold very different points of view, the committee always operates in a 
cordial and collegial manner. I have served on the Budget Committee for 
2 years, and it has been a privilege to learn from two such 
distinguished Members how to work in a bipartisan way despite sharp 
philosophical differences. And all of us are supported, Mr. Speaker, by 
a superb and dedicated committee staff.

Mr. Speaker, budgets are moral documents. They reflect our 
priorities. And for too long, this Congress passed budgets with the 
wrong priorities. For too long, our budgets put the desires of the 
powerful before the needs of the poor. For too long, our budgets 
pretended that people who were struggling didn't even exist, let alone 
matter. That has begun to change. The Democratic budget before us today 
is a budget with a conscience.

Today, we continue the new direction set last year to bring the 
Federal budget back to fiscal health and responsibility. As we begin 
this debate, our country faces major challenges: a looming recession, a 
crisis in the credit markets, a plunging housing market, rising 
unemployment, declining family income, skyrocketing costs in health 
care, aging infrastructure, and a safety net struggling to keep up with 
the growing number of Americans unable to meet their basic needs.

Faced with these challenges, President Bush proposed the same tired, 
worn-out, failed fiscal and economic policies. After 7 years, the Bush 
legacy is the highest deficits in our Nation's history. Let us 
remember, Mr. Speaker, when President Bush took office, when the 
Republicans had total control over the White House, the Senate and this 
House, they were welcomed with a $5.6 trillion projected 10-year budget 
surplus, the financial gift of the last Democrat to sit in the White 
House. That has been completely squandered, resulting in the largest 
fiscal deterioration in American history. And the President's FY 2009 
budget proposed only more of the same.

The national debt exploded under President Bush and his Republican 
rubber-stamp Congress. At the end of 2008, CBO projects a $9.6 trillion 
debt, an increase of nearly $4 trillion, brought to you courtesy of 
George Bush. Future generations, our children and our grandchildren, 
will be forced to pay the price for this unprecedented rise in debt 
thanks to the Republicans' fiscally reckless and irresponsible 
policies.

And to top it off, the President's budget continues the Bush legacy 
of deep cuts in many of the most important programs and services for 
the American people:

$500 billion in cuts to Medicare.

$100 billion in cuts to Medicaid, which serves the poorest Americans, 
including families with children.

The elimination of the Community Services Block Grant and the Social 
Services Block Grant, and deep cuts in the Community Development Block 
Grant, which provides nearly every city and town in America with 
Federal support for basic services.

Elimination of the Community Oriented Policing grants, the COPS 
grants, and deep cuts for State and local law enforcement at a time 
when States and local communities are finding it hard to meet the needs 
of their first responders.

And deep cuts in many other vital programs that provide health care, 
infrastructure, environmental protection, and other services to our 
States and to our neighborhoods.

Let me give but one example, Mr. Speaker, the Low-Income Home Energy 
Assistance Program, or LIHEAP. Last week, the worst snow storm in a 
century hit the people of Ohio and the Midwest. Two weeks ago, the 
people of central Massachusetts were facing over three feet of snow. 
Across the country, people are suffering in the cold. Home heating 
costs have gone up by 80 percent under George Bush. A barrel of oil now 
costs $108. But President Bush decided to cut $570 million out of the 
LIHEAP program. The President decided to turn off the heat for 1.2 
million households, forcing families to choose either to heat or to 
eat. And why? So we could continue tax cuts for the wealthiest, most 
fortunate billionaires in America.


Mr. Speaker, the Democratic budget rejects the President's 
priorities. It rejects the callous view of the Republican Party that 
tens of millions of American families are expendable, that our 
communities can manage without basic services, that our roads, bridges 
and water systems should be allowed to crumble and fail, and that we 
can run up America's credit card without costs or consequences.

Instead, the Democratic budget restores fiscal responsibility to the 
Federal budget, returning it to balance in the year 2012. It rejects 
the President's harmful cuts to basic services, and invests in proven 
programs that boost economic growth, create jobs, and make America 
safer.

The Democratic budget helps families struggling to make ends meet in 
this economic downturn, and provides fiscally responsible tax relief to 
millions and millions of households.

Finally, the Democratic budget remembers those who serve at home and 
abroad. It provides strong and substantial funding for national 
defense, including quality of life for our troops and our families.

It provides more funding for homeland security programs, including 
first responders, than the President would. And finally, it takes care 
of our veterans and rejects President Bush's cynical new fees for 
veterans health care.


Instead, the Democratic budget increases health care funding for our 
veterans well above current services, enough to allow the VA to treat 
5.8 million patients in 2009, including over 333,000 Iraq and 
Afghanistan war veterans.

Mr. Speaker, the underlying legislation, House Concurrent Resolution 
312, the fiscal year 2009 budget resolution, is a budget all Americans 
who believe in fiscal responsibility and the common good can support.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.