# None
## `3978aa7a54191eb775242ff575443eb8`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 29 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, that is an outstanding segue to even 
talk about what has passed this floor already. You mentioned many of 
those measures. Eighty percent of the American people, overwhelmingly, 
Mr. Speaker, feel that the first 100 hours here in the U.S. House of 
Representatives have been very fruitful and have put forth a great 
surge of support and hope on behalf of everyday working Americans.

Speaking of the minimum wage, I understand that it is up for 
consideration in the Senate next week, hopefully next Tuesday. I know 
there are some discussions an $8 billion possible cost for tax breaks 
for businesses within that. I know that there will be some sort of 
discussion between the finance Chair in the Senate and Mr. Rangel over 
here in the House, Mr. Speaker, from Ways and Means.

We are going to continue to have hearings on the economy. We are 
going to talk about globalization tomorrow in the committee, I believe 
at 10 a.m., over in the Longworth Building. We are going to the effects 
of it, how does it deal with the American worker, how do we benefit 
here. And that is going to be a great discussion for us to continue to 
have, especially with the President moving around and speaking to 
different groups about trade.

I think it is also important as we start to look at this issue of the 
minimum wage that we keep at the forefront. So I want to make sure that 
the Members stay engaged; I want to make sure that the American people 
stay engaged and informed on what is happening.

I think another issue that is coming up and I mentioned it a little 
earlier, on Wednesday, we are going to be dealing with the continuing 
resolution. I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, some of the things that were 
mentioned in the State of the Union, it is interesting what we have 
already incorporated into the House.


Democrats led the way in making sure that we adopt pay-as-we-go 
rules. Democrats led the way by saying that there will be no earmarks 
in this continuing resolution that will come to the floor on Wednesday. 
And we talk about earmarks. And we are bringing about earmark reform.

But earmarks in some areas, especially when you look at the bad 
situation that the country is in right now, this does not go away. I 
mean, we are continuing to hold this chart up. I just want to make sure 
that the American people and Members understand that we had very little 
to do with the situation of the $1.05 trillion that has been borrowed 
from foreign nations, and more than has been borrowed over 224 years 
with 42 Presidents and a number of Congresses in between, of $1.01 
trillion.

We did not just get there. We got there by giving unaffordable tax 
breaks that we could not afford to the superwealthy, giving away tax 
breaks to individuals who did not ask for it. So that just does not go 
away.

There is a lot of work between making sure that we are able to do 
what this Democratic Congress has done in balancing the budget and 
taking us into surpluses versus what the Republican Congress has done 
in taking us backwards.

Mr. Speaker and Mr. Murphy, we are joined by my good friend from Ohio 
(Mr. Ryan). Mr. Ryan, we have been talking about a number of issues 
surrounding not only the Speaker's visit to Iraq and Afghanistan with 
some other Democratic leaders and also chairmen, but also talking about 
the issue of the veterans not being mentioned in the State of the 
Union, nor the Gulf States. But we said we are not going to leave them 
behind. So we gave an update on the minimum wage. We are happy to hear 
from you, sir.