# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `39d4f16d8833f3736bf7217d802cbd62`
`Mr. CARPER â€” 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. CARPER. Madam President, to follow up briefly on the last item my 
colleague from Missouri was discussing, health care, the President in 
his State of the Union addressed it and laid out one approach which was 
certainly different from anything I had heard before, a tax approach 
that would call for some people to have to pay some taxes on Cadillac 
plans that they enjoy today and to use the money generated to help 
folks who don't enjoy that kind of health coverage. Some people 
immediately rejected it out of hand. I have not done that. I think we 
need to study it more closely and understand the ramifications. In the 
end, whether we agree that is a good idea or not, most of us will agree 
that it is a good idea to figure out how to harness information 
technology in the delivery of health care in our own States and in the 
country, much as the VA has done for veterans who go there for service 
at their facilities.

Delaware is endeavoring to become the first State to put in place a 
statewide Delaware Health Information Network which links our hospitals 
to our doctors' offices to our labs in a free-flowing electronic 
exchange of information. It will allow the exchange of electronic 
health records and lead the way, as a little State, to show what we can 
do for our country to save money and to save lives and improve outcomes 
and, frankly, to improve the quality of life for the providers as well 
and the satisfaction they derive from their work.
















 Climate Change


The second thing I wish to mention is this document which was 
released earlier this week. It is called ''A Call For Action.'' It was 
released on Monday by an interesting coalition of business leaders, 
manufacturers, utility companies, and environmental leaders. The folks 
who released it are called the United States Climate Action 
Partnership. I wish to briefly mention the charter members of the group 
who were here in the Capitol, just down the hall in the LBJ Room, on 
Monday morning. They include DuPont, a 200-year-old company 
headquartered in Delaware; Alcoa; BP--used to be called British 
Petroleum, now they are ''beyond petroleum''; Caterpillar; Duke Energy; 
the Environmental Defense folks; Florida Power & Light: GE; the NRDC, 
National Resources Defense Council; Pew Institute; PG&E Corporation, a 
big utility on the west coast; PNM, which is New Mexico power: and the 
World Resources Institute. What they have done is said: Climate change 
is real. Our Earth is becoming warmer. We have something to do with it. 
They call on us to do something about it--not just us in the Senate but 
as a nation to do something about it. They have laid out here a series 
of findings, of principles, and of recommendations.

One of the things I am doing is sharing with each of my colleagues a 
copy of this document. If we can get the utilities, manufacturers, and 
a number of our leading environmental groups to agree on a path forward 
on the principles and the recommendations, that is an important step 
for our country.

I shared this with the President on Wednesday. He was in Delaware to 
look at the work going on at the DuPont Company with respect to 
biofuels, biobutanol, making ethanol out of cellulosic ethanol, out of 
cornstalks, looking at work being done on fuel cells. I shared with him 
a copy of this document.

The President had in his speech the other night about one sentence 
where he talked about global warming and acknowledged that it was real. 
Then he moved on. But I said to the President during a chance I had to 
chat with him that there is a parade that is beginning to form, a 
realization that something


is happening to our planet, that we have something to do with creating 
this warming, and that we have an obligation to do something about it. 
I applaud the leaders from the environmental and business communities 
who have joined forces to say: This is an approach which makes sense. 
They take what we call a market approach and use in their approach the 
idea that while we are putting in place a cap-and-trade system to 
reduce CO2 emissions, why don't we do so in a way that 
incentivizes clean coal technology with carbon recapture, that 
incentivizes things such as wind power, maybe incentivizes the next 
generation of nuclear energy as well.

I commend them. I understand from folks who are involved in this 
original partnership, they are getting a lot of calls from around the 
country, from other business leaders, and some from the environmental 
community who want to know more about it and, frankly, want to join. My 
message to the President on Wednesday was, a parade is forming. We can 
watch the parade. We can be a part of that parade or we can lead that 
parade. We need to lead the parade. President Bush is our President, 
and he needs to be leading that parade as well.

I wanted to share that.

The third thing I wish to do is comment on the legislation before us 
and to applaud the efforts of several of our colleagues, including 
Senator Baucus and Senator Grassley, as we have brought this minimum 
wage bill to the floor and coupled it with small business tax cuts. The 
President signalled early on that he would be willing to sign the 
minimum wage bill, after having not supported it for a number of years. 
It has been a long time. We have heard plenty of speeches in the last 
week about this issue. It has been a long time since we raised the 
minimum wage.

As Governor of my State, we raised the minimum wage a time or two. I 
always contended that if we wanted people to get off welfare, to go to 
work and to be successful, work has to pay more than welfare. If you 
take a minimum wage job and you enhance that with an income tax credit 
and add to that Medicaid benefits, add to that food stamps and food 
supplement benefits, people aren't going to get rich--help them with 
assisted housing--but if we do it right, people can actually be better 
off working than they would be receiving the welfare. An increase in 
the minimum wage is part and parcel of that.

I am pleased to support this increase, even if it is coupled with 
increases or changes and modifications to small business tax credits.

We all know--in fact, everybody in the Senate has given speeches, I 
am sure, saying this--that small businesses are the engine of job 
creation in this country. I have, and I suspect the Presiding Officer 
has, as have the Senator from New Jersey and the Senator from North 
Carolina, we have all given speeches saying how important the small 
business community is. Small business generates new jobs. One of our 
important jobs in government--Federal, State, and local--is to create a 
nurturing environment for job creation and preservation. Some of the 
ways to do that are a well-trained workforce, reasonable tax burdens, 
reasonable regulations, safer communities, transportation, good 
infrastructure, and affordable health care. But taxes are important.

What I commend Senator Baucus and Senator Grassley in doing is 
crafting a series of tax credits for small business that incentivizes 
them to hire people, some of whom are coming off of welfare and 
disability, and veterans coming back from Afghanistan and Iraq. They 
have done good work, and I look forward to supporting adoption of the 
legislation and working out a compromise with the House that includes 
both the increase in the minimum wage and the tax cuts and, in some 
cases, credits for small businesses, and then get the President to sign 
that compromise.













 Honoring Our Armed Forces










 Senior Airman Elizabeth A. Loncki
