# IN RECOGNITION OF DELAWARE COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGE'S AFGHAN-IRAQ  VETERANS COMMEMORATIVE TREE
## `3a0bef4dc39e55dc481952fa34deec64`
`Mr. SESTAK â€” 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the planting 
and dedication of a memorial tree at Delaware County Community College 
in Media, Pennsylvania. This tree was given in grateful appreciation to 
Delaware County Community College students who have and will serve as 
members of the United States Armed Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Since its founding in 1967, countless students from Delaware County 
Community College have answered the call to duty. These brave young men 
and women have proudly served our Nation in every conflict fought 
during the college's 40-year existence, including in the current 
conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq. To date, over 100 members of the 
student body, and at least 300 people who are part of the DCCC 
community, have served in Afghanistan or Iraq. In addition, many 
students who are in Reserve or National Guard units expect to be called 
to active duty in the near future.

The tree planted today honors those who have served. This tree will 
speak to future generations. It will be a living tribute to those who 
pass through the College now and in the future that our students, when 
called upon, proudly responded. The accompanying plaque will be a 
permanent reminder of the courage and character these students have 
shown through the service given and sacrifices made for their country.

I would like to acknowledge Dr. Jerry Parker, president of Delaware 
County College, and Professor Labron K. Shuman for their commitment to 
the conception, development, and establishment of this remembrance. 
Their desire to honor the students who have fought for freedom embodies 
the spirit of true patriotism.

I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing the students, faculty, 
staff, administrators, and alumni of Delaware County Community College 
who have contributed to the creation of this memorial, and in honoring 
the veterans to whom the memorial is admirably dedicated.
