# HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA OF  SERGEANT IOSIWO URUO, UNITED STATES ARMY
## `3aa51f9e0c1c57757a0ec3d5b099c748`
`Ms. BORDALLO â€” 5 June 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, some men become heroes on the 
battlefield; some are heroes in their communities, even before they go 
off to battle. With much sadness, I rise to say that Guam and the 
island of Chuuk in the Federated States of Micronesia have lost such a 
hero. Army SGT Iosiwo Uruo, who died on May 24, 2007 in Buhriz, Iraq, 
in support of


Operation Iraq Freedom, was well known and well liked in his home 
village of Agana Heights for his friendly but quiet, and humble nature.

Fondly known to family and friends as ''Siwo,'' Sergeant Uruo was 
born in Chuuk on November 29, 1979. His family moved to Guam in 1987 
and they were befriended by Agana Heights Mayor Paul McDonald and his 
family, and the two families became close friends. Siwo's passing 
deeply grieves both families.

Sergeant Uruo attended Agana Heights Elementary School and Agueda 
Johnston Middle School. He graduated from George Washington High School 
in 2000, the first in his family to earn a diploma. Siwo was involved 
in the high school's ROTC Program and played football for GWHS for 
several years. In Agana Heights, Iosiwo participated in sporting events 
such as baseball and softball; he was part of the Mayor's Youth for 
Hire Program, to help village youths earn money by doing yard work or 
general cleaning, and the Agana Heights ''Fun In The Sun'' Summer 
Program, as youth worker. He also was a member of Troop 22 of the Boy 
Scouts of America, Agana Heights.

Sergeant Uruo was the proverbial 'good son,' hardworking, respectful, 
and obedient. He enlisted in the Army after graduating from high school 
because he wanted to serve his country.

On behalf of the People of Guam and a grateful nation, I extend 
heartfelt condolences and profound sympathy to Sergeant Uruo's parents, 
Isaoshy and Iosita; his sisters, Isabel and Josephine; his brothers, 
Iosiro, Joshua, Alanser, and Ivan; his sisters-in-law, Fatima and 
Jonea; and nephew Iverson; as well as to his all of his extended family 
and friends, especially Mayor Paul and Elaine McDonald and their 
family. Siwo was a caring son, a loving brother, and a proud American 
patriot.
