# EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR IRANIANS WHO EMBRACE DEMOCRACY
## `3ad2cbd6981b8bb1f70395689b602c59`
`Mr. CANTOR â€” 19 June 2009`

---


Mr. CANTOR. I thank the gentlelady.

Mr. Speaker, the Iranian regime's brutalities are on full display for 
the whole world to behold. I rise today in sympathy with the victims of 
Iranian political oppression who have been injured or killed, 
protesting the outcome of their election. I salute the leadership of 
the gentlelady from Florida and the gentleman from California for 
bringing this resolution forward, as well as the gentleman from Indiana 
for his leadership on this and so many issues, and the way that the 
gentlelady from Nevada spoke.

It is America's moral responsibility to speak out on behalf of the 
protection of human rights wherever they are violated. And regardless 
of the outcome of the Iranian election, make no


mistake where the power in Iran lies. It lies with a clerical regime 
who conducts its most egregious activities in the dark, hidden from the 
world's eyes and, thus, escaping media attention. The Iranian 
Revolutionary Guard Corps quietly funnels weapons and funding into 
terrorist groups from Iraq to Afghanistan, from Lebanon to Gaza. 
Iranian centrifuges enrich uranium at nuclear plants often hidden from 
weapons inspectors. And terrorist groups make voyages to Iran to 
receive training at unspecified locations. This is the regime we are 
talking about, and this week the true colors of that regime are on 
broad display. We must rally the world around the cause of the Iranian 
people. I urge the administration, I urge President Obama to follow the 
lead of this House, to speak out on behalf of the Iranian people and 
their quest for freedom and human rights.