# None
## `3b3ab3e563ad9c375a5d5b38eb5253c7`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR â€” 20 March 2007`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, as a former prosecutor, I am here to 
speak in behalf of S. 214. I would first like to thank the members of 
the Judiciary Committee for introducing and reporting out this 
important bill, and I am proud to be a cosponsor.

I returned from Iraq yesterday, and I look forward to reflecting on 
lessons learned from that trip later on this week. But I will say that 
my Senate colleagues and I had extensive discussions with Iraqi 
political leaders as well as the American military about the need to 
restore the rule of law in Iraq. I have always been proud that our 
judicial process has been the gold standard for the rest of the world. 
It is ironic, then, that even as I spoke with Iraqi leaders about their 
challenges, we Americans were learning a very public lesson about how 
the rule of law can be undermined in even the most advanced 
democracies.

We have learned this past month that our Nation's chief law 
enforcement officer, our leading guardian of the rule of law in this 
country, has allowed politics to creep too close to the core of our 
legal system. This administration has determined that Washington 
politicians, not prosecutors out in the field--and perhaps, in some 
cases, not even the facts--will dictate how prosecutions should 
proceed. The consequences are unacceptable.

Good prosecutors, by all accounts doing their jobs, upholding their 
oaths, following the principles of their profession, basing their 
decisions on the facts before them, were pressured and/or fired and/or 
unfairly slandered by this administration. All of this, it would seem, 
was motivated by rank politics. That is simply not how we do things in 
this country. That is why, last week, I called for the Attorney General 
to resign.

Before I came to the Senate, I was a prosecutor. I managed an office 
of nearly 400 people, and we always said in our office: If you do the 
right thing, if you do your job without fear or favor, at the end of 
the day, you have no regrets. It may not be easy; whatever your 
decision is, it may not make everyone happy, you may have to explain 
it, but if you do your job without fear or favor, you have no regrets. 
That was true, even though I was elected through the political process. 
I checked politics at the door when I came to my job.

I remember when I first came to my office there were two prosecutors 
in the office who supported my opponent. I went and met with them the 
day after I was elected, and I said: I heard nothing but good things 
about you two, I heard you are great prosecutors, and I would like to 
know what are the jobs you want in the office. One of them wanted to be 
head of the drug team, the other wanted to be head of the gang team, 
and I put them in those jobs and never regretted it. They did 
incredible jobs, got along well with the police, and they worked well 
with the community. That is because we knew, when it came to 
prosecutions, there were boundaries. Those boundaries, this month in 
Washington, we found out were crossed.

Another case I will always remember is a case where we prosecuted a 
judge who had stolen $400,000 from a mentally disabled woman he was 
supposed to protect. This young woman lived in a world of stuffed 
animals and dolls. She needed people to take care of her. He was the 
person who was in charge of her money in her accounts, and he 
systematically stole all $400,000 in those accounts. He was a 
politically connected judge. He was a Democrat. When that case came 
into our office, I got so many calls, dozens of calls, from people in 
the community, political people, saying: You know, he messed up, but he 
is a good guy. He should not go to jail.

He went to jail. We asked for a 4-year sentence, and we got that 
sentence. I still remember that courtroom packed with all of his 
friends, all of his pals, but we did the right thing, and at the end of 
the day we had no regrets.

This is a tradition in our country, a simple and deeply rooted 
tradition that our party affiliation should not get in the middle of 
decisions about whom we prosecute and how we enforce the law.


That tradition is as true--perhaps even more true--in our Federal 
prosecutor's office as it is in the local DA's office. This tradition 
emerged because our justice system is ultimately built on a foundation 
of trust. Without that trust, the system does not work.

When our leaders play politics with the judicial process, we lose 
that trust. When people get fired for political reasons, we lose that 
trust. When good prosecutors are removed to make room for political 
cronies, we lose that trust. In losing that trust, the very lifeblood 
of our justice system comes under threat.

The legislation we are considering will not undo the damage this 
administration and this Attorney General have caused, but it will 
prevent this Attorney General and future Attorneys General from ever 
doing something like this again.

It is time once again to allow Federal prosecutors to do their jobs 
without fear or favor. It is time to place much needed limits on an 
administration that has far too often and far too flagrantly exceeded 
its authority and abused the public trust. Today, by passing this bill, 
we seek to curb that abuse and to give trust back to those who gave it 
to us--the people of this country.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum, and I ask that the 
time be charged equally to both sides.