# None
## `3b54560342844619116500e008f95afe`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER â€” 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. I thank the gentleman from Massachusetts for his 
courtesy in permitting me to speak on this. I continue to have profound 
reservations about our troop commitments, first in Iraq and more 
recently with President Obama's decision to escalate our presence in 
Afghanistan.

History suggests we will not be successful in stabilizing Afghanistan 
with military force. No one has. I don't think anyone ever will. 
Afghanistan today is perhaps the most corrupt country in the world, 
ranked next to last out of 180, according to Transparency 
International. If you have a culture of corruption, it's hard to plant 
seeds. It's hard to rent allies and have them remain loyal. Global 
economic development through roads and water are not esoteric, abstract 
issues. These are things that make a difference between people being 
thugs and, in some cases, feeding their families in any way they can, 
having little sympathy for infidels and drug problems.

The magnitude of spending that we're involved with here needs to be 
put in perspective. Each one of these additional troops that we are 
sending over costs $1 million a year to support. We are going to be 
spending as a Nation $7,000 for each of the 14.5 million Afghanis in 
the workforce.



Our military spending per Afghan worker is 20 times what that worker 
will earn in an entire year in Afghanistan. At the same time, there is 
a dire need for the most basic of services. In rural Afghanistan, 80 
percent drink polluted water and only 10 percent have adequate 
sanitation.

I have profound reservations about the course we are on and the 
ability to generate positive long-term, fundamental changes that will 
persist over time. I think it is absolutely essential that we have this 
debate. While I don't agree with the resolution that somehow we are 
going to be able to pull the plug and be able to end this in 30 days or 
30 weeks, I do think it is important for Congress to focus on what is 
here, what is possible.

What we need to be doing is redirecting our effort. We need to start 
reversing the course that we are on there. We need to narrow our focus. 
We need to make more efforts to involve the Afghans themselves with 
water, with sanitation, with education. And we need to make sure that 
Congress has a voice and is pushing back as the elements come to us.

I don't agree that we are powerless on some of the defense 
appropriations, for instance. We can in fact push back. We can be 
heard. And we can start reversing what I think is an inappropriate 
course.

I welcome the debate today. While I am not going to support the 
particular resolution, I appreciate my colleagues bringing it forward. 
I think it is important to engage and for us to imagine how we can do a 
better job in that troubled country and in that troubled region. The 
time to begin the discussion is long overdue. I look forward to 
continued progress.