# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `3b66d6aa1e4bfcedeb636790aeef9a51`
`Mr. HATCH â€” 16 July 2009`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, although I have been an active participant 
in the Judiciary Committee's Sotomayor confirmation hearings, I have 
followed with great interest the floor debate on continuing the 
production of the F-22A Raptor.

Unfortunately, over the years I have heard a number of incorrect 
assertions made about this aircraft, and I have tried to correct them. 
But after listening to this week's debate and reading misleading 
articles, especially in the Washington Post, about the F-22's 
performance and capabilities, I believe the Raptor's opponents have hit 
bottom--and have begun to dig.

Therefore, I would like to set the record straight about the F-22 and 
its extraordinary war-winning capabilities.

Fact No. 1: The F-22 is, and will continue to be, the preeminent 
fighter/bomber for the next 40 years.

The F-22 is the stealthiest aircraft flying today. Unlike the F-117 
Nighthawk and the B-2 bomber the F-22s can be deployed on stealth 
flight operations not just at night, but 24 hours a day. This one-of-a-
kind capability provides our combatant commanders with unprecedented 
flexibility to engage ground and air targets at a time of their 
choosing--thus denying any respite to the enemy.

The Raptor is equipped with supercruise engines that are unique 
because they do not need to go to after-burner to achieve supersonic 
flight. This provides the F-22 with a strategic advantage by enabling 
supersonic speeds to be maintained for a far greater length of time. By 
comparison, all other fighters require their engines to go to after-
burner to achieve supersonic speeds, thus consuming a tremendous amount 
of fuel and greatly limiting their range.

The F-22 is the deadliest fighter flying today. During a recent 
military exercise in Alaska, the Raptor dispatched 144 adversaries 
versus the loss of only one aircraft.

Further advantage resides in the F-22's radar and avionics. When 
entering hostile airspace, the F-22's sensor-fused avionics can detect 
and engage enemy aircraft and surface threats far before an enemy can 
hope to engage the F-22. At the same time, its advanced sensors enable 
the F-22 to be a forward-surveillance platform capable of gathering 
crucial intelligence on the enemy.

Often overlooked, the F-22 is a very capable bomber. It can carry two 
GPS-guided, 1,000-pound joint direct attack munition bombs or eight 
small-diameter bombers.

Fact No. 2: The F-22 is not a Cold War dinosaur. It is designed to 
meet and eliminate the threats of today and tomorrow.

As the longest-serving member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I 
know full well the greatest air threat of today and tomorrow is, and 
will continue to be, the advanced integrated air defense system.

Such a system is composed of two parts. The first component is 
advanced surface-to-air missile systems such as the Russian-made S-300, 
which has a range of over 100 miles. The second are highly maneuverable 
and sophisticated fighters like the Su-30, which have been sold to 
China and India. Coupled together, these anti-access systems make 
penetrating hostile airspace extremely difficult, if not deadly, for 
those aircraft lacking the F-22's advanced stealth technology and 
sustained supersonic speeds made possible by its supercruise engine. It 
is also important to remember the mainstays of our aerial fleet, the F-
15, F-16 and F/A-18, are not stealth aircraft and are not equipped with 
supercruise engines.

Unfortunately, integrated air defense systems are relatively 
inexpensive, placing them within the purchasing potential of nations 
such as Iran with its seeming insistence on developing nuclear weapons.

The advanced integrated air defense system is exactly the threat the 
F-22 was designed to neutralize. In addition, the F-22 will almost 
simultaneously be able to turn its attention to other ground targets 
that threaten the national security of the U.S. and our allies.

In a related argument, some argue the United States should devote 
more of its military resources toward bolstering its counterinsurgency 
capabilities.

This is a fair point. Unwisely, the United States did permit its 
counterinsurgency capabilities to atrophy after the Vietnam war. As 
events in Iraq and Afghanistan have shown, we continue to pay dearly 
for that error. However, as we reconstitute our ability to successful 
prosecute counterinsurgency campaigns, we cannot make a similar mistake 
and undermine one of the fundamental foundations of our military 
strength: hegemony in the air.

Even Defense Secretary Robert Gates said this January, ''Our military 
must be prepared for a full spectrum of operations, including the type 
of combat we're facing in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as large scale 
threats that we face from places like North Korea and Iran.'' I could 
not agree more, and the aircraft that will enable our Nation to 
decisively defeat our adversaries in the air is the F-22.

Mr. President, others point out the F-22 has not been deployed in 
support of our operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. This is true. 
However, there were recent plans to deploy the F-22 to the Persian 
Gulf. But according to the July 9, 2008, edition of the widely 
respected Defense News, the Pentagon overruled those plans, citing 
concerns about ''strategic dislocation.'' This means the F-22 is hardly 
a dinosaur. It is a weapon that can change the balance of power in a 
region and deter our adversaries.

Fact No. 3: 187 F-22s is an insufficient number to meet the minimum 
requirements of our national military strategy.

Our Nation's military requirements are decided upon in detailed 
studies of the threats our Nation and its allies confront. These 
studies also recommend force structures to deter and, if necessary, 
defeat threats to our national security. Accordingly, the Department of 
Defense and the Air Force have conducted a number of studies to 
determine how many F-22s are required to meet our national military 
strategy.

I am unaware of any comprehensive study that has concluded F-22 
production should cease at 187 aircraft. Specifically, unclassified 
excerpts from the Air Force's sustaining air dominance study stated 
''180 F-22s was not enough,'' and the Department of Defense TACAIR 
optimization study concluded the procurement of additional Raptors 
''was the best option.'' On April 16, these conclusions were reinforced 
by comments made by GEN Norton A. Schwartz, the Chief of Staff of the 
Air Force, after the F-22 procurement termination was announced. 
General Schwartz stated, ''243 [Raptors] is the military requirement.''

Opponents of the Raptor will most likely dispute this, pointing to 
comments made by General Cartwright during his July 9 testimony before 
the Senate Armed Services Committee.


During his testimony the general stated the decision to terminate 
production of the F-22 is supported by a ''study in the Joint staff 
that we just completed and partnered with the Air Force.'' However, my 
staff has inquired about this study and was informed a recently 
completed comprehensive, analytic study does not exist.


No doubt, the Joint Staff has prepared some justification for F-22 
termination.Yet I believe it is only natural to question the 
objectivity of any assessment which justifies previously reached 
decisions.

Unfortunately, yesterday, my suspicions about this so-called analysis 
were proven correct when Geoffrey Morrell, the Pentagon's press 
secretary, stated General Cartwright was referring to ''not so much a 
study [as a] work product.''

Therefore, I believe the Congress should place great significance on 
the June 9 letter by GEN John Corley, the commander of air combat 
command, who stated ''at Air Combat Command we have a need for 381 F-
22s to deliver a tailored package of air superiority to our Combatant 
Commanders and provide a potent, globally arrayed, asymmetric deterrent 
against potential adversaries. In my opinion, a fleet of 187 F-22s puts 
execution of our current national military strategy at high risk in the 
near to mid-term. To my knowledge, there are no studies that 
demonstrate 187 F-22s are adequate to support our national military 
strategy.''

I believe these are important words from the four-star general who is 
responsible for the Air Force command which is the primary provider of 
combat airpower to America's war-fighting commands.

Fact No. 4: The Washington Post article that alleged technical and 
maintenance difficulties of the F-22 was misleading and inaccurate.

In fact, the Air Force has written two rebuttals to this article. 
After viewing the first rebuttal, I found it striking the Air Force 
stated six of the points made in the article were false, four were 
misleading, and two were not true.

Specifically, the primary assertion made by the Post was the F-22 
cost far more per hour to fly than the aircraft it is replacing, the F-
15. However, this is misleading. Only when you include all of the one-
time costs that are associated with a new military aircraft is this 
true. A far more accurate measurement is to compare variable flying 
hours. The F-22 costs $19,750 per hour to fly versus $17,465 for the F-
15. The F-15 costs less to fly, but the 1960s-designed F-15 does not 
have nearly the capabilities of the F-22.

The article asserts the F-22 has only a 55-percent availability rate 
for ''guarding U.S. airspace.'' This is misleading. Overall, the F-22 
boasts a 70-percent availability rate, and that has been increasing 
every year over the past 4 years.

Finally, the article states the F-22 requires significant 
maintenance. This is true. But the Post article misses the critical 
point: the F-22 is a stealth aircraft. Making an aircraft disappear 
from radar is not accomplished through magic. It is achieved through 
precise preparation and exacting attention to detail.

I believe we can all agree it is far better to expend man hours to 
prepare an airplane that will win wars than to buy replacement aircraft 
after they have been shot down, not to mention the moral cost of not 
exposing our pilots to unnecessary dangers.

Fact No. 5: The F-22's detractors argue erroneously that the Raptor's 
role can be filled by the F-35, also known as the Joint Strike Fighter. 
But the Raptor and the Joint Strike Fighter were designed to complement 
each other, not be substituted for each other. The F-22 is the NASCAR 
racer of this air-dominance team. Fast and unseen, the Raptor will 
punch a hole in an enemy's defenses, quickly dispatching any challenger 
in the air and striking at the most important ground targets. The Joint 
Strike Fighter is the rugged SUV of the team. Impressive, but not as 
maneuverable or capable of sustained supersonic speeds, the F-35 will 
exploit the hole opened by the F-22 and attack additional targets and 
directly support our ground forces. This is not to say the F-35 is not 
a highly capable stealthy aircraft. But the F-35's role is to 
supplement the F-22, not substitute for it. Only by utilizing the 
strengths of both aircraft do we ensure air dominance for the next 40 
years.

Fact No. 6: Our allies recognize the critical capabilities of the F-
22 and are eager to purchase the aircraft.

This is one of the most compelling reasons for purchasing additional 
numbers of F-22s. The Japanese and Australian governments have 
consistently approached our government about purchasing the Raptor for 
themselves. If the F-22 is such a boondoggle, why would these nations 
be willing to spend billions of dollars to purchase them. Australia 
already plans to purchase up to 100 F-35s. Why does it need the Raptor? 
Perhaps it is because these nations realize a number of the threats to 
their security can only be defeated using the F-22 Raptor.

In conclusion, we have an opportunity to ensure this and future 
generations continue to benefit from one of the foundations of our 
national security: the ability to defeat any air threat and strike any 
target anywhere in the world. The world is changing; threats are 
growing. Today we have an opportunity to ensure those air threats are 
met.

To be honest with you, our young men and women who fly deserve the 
very best equipment we can give to them, not equipment that is getting 
old, outmoded, and cannot do the job.

I hope my colleagues will join me in voting against the Levin-McCain 
amendment.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.