# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `3b8721ca7045fcf457e7235b4fc37fed`
`Mr. BARRASSO â€” 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I rise today to express our Nation's 
deepest thanks and gratitude to a special young man and his family. I 
was saddened to receive word that on March 10, 2008, SSG David Julian 
of Evanston, WY, was killed in the line of duty while serving our 
country in the war on terrorism. Along with four of his fellow 
soldiers, Staff Sergeant Julian died from injuries he sustained in a 
suicide bomber attack in Baghdad, Iraq.

Staff Sergeant Julian was assigned to D Company, 1st Battalion, 64th 
Armor Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division, Fort Stewart, GA. He joined the 
Army right after his graduation from Evanston High School in 1994. He 
loved the Army and his country and was serving his fourth tour of duty 
in Iraq. Following his first tour, he laid the wreath for the 
dedication of the Fallen Comrade Memorial in downtown Evanston. He was 
laid to rest in his hometown, where he was remembered by family and 
friends as a determined and courageous warrior, an honorable soldier, 
and a loving husband and father.

It is because of David Julian that we continue to live safe and free. 
America's men and women who answer the call to service and wear our 
Nation's uniform deserve respect and recognition for the enormous 
burden that they willingly bear. They put everything on the line every 
day, and because of them and their families, our Nation remains free 
and strong in the face of danger.

In the Book of John, Jesus said that, ''Greater love has no man than 
this, that he lay his life down for his friend.'' SSG David Julian gave 
his life, that last full measure of devotion, for you, me, and every 
single American. He gave his life defending his country and its people, 
and we honor him for this selfless sacrifice.

Staff Sergeant Julian is survived by his wife Erin and baby daughter 
Elizabeth, his mother Bonnie and father Wally, brothers Eric, Chris, 
and Mark, and sisters Misty, Becky, and Kellee. He is also survived by 
his brothers and sisters in arms of the U.S. Army. We say goodbye to a 
husband, a father, a son, a brother, and an American soldier. Our 
Nation pays its deepest respect to SSG David D. Julian for his courage, 
his love of country, and his sacrifice, so that we may remain free. He 
was a hero in life and he remains a hero in death. All of Wyoming, and 
indeed the entire Nation, is proud of him. May God bless him and his 
family and welcome him with open arms.
