# FISA
## `3bcfdb13e9650d0bbef83c0b89f97648`
`Mr. McCAUL of Texas â€” 31 March 2008`

---


Mr. McCAUL of Texas. Forty-five days ago, the Protect America Act 
expired. Forty-five days ago, we began to lose critical intelligence 
overseas that could help better protect this Nation. Forty-five days 
ago, al Qaeda began to have the upper hand in this war on terror. 
Forty-five days ago, we started to


go dark in parts of the world. Why? Because the Democratic leadership 
will not allow this body to vote to make the Protect America Act 
permanent, as the Senate did many months ago.

Mr. Speaker, this is a dangerous and reckless partisan play with the 
safety of the American people. It endangers the American people, both 
here at home and the warfighter abroad. We took an oath of office when 
we were sworn in to protect and defend the Constitution against all 
enemies, foreign and domestic. These are the foreign enemies. We are 
talking about foreign terrorists in a foreign country communicating 
foreign communications. This has nothing to do with the United States 
citizens. And yet, what the Democrats are allowing is to extend 
constitutional protections to people like Osama bin Laden and Khalil 
Sheikh Mohammad, al Qaeda leaders who are communicating about how they 
can perpetrate an act of evil like on September 11th.

Mr. Speaker, there is a reason why this has not occurred since 9/11. 
It is because we have had good intelligence. Good intelligence is the 
best weapon we have in this war on terror. Without good intelligence, 
we cannot protect this Nation. And this is what this debate is all 
about. We all remember where we were on this day. But many of us don't 
remember where we were when the London arrests were made to stop 
airplanes from being blown up over the United States. Many of us don't 
remember the countless acts of heroism our intelligence community has 
performed in protecting the American people from plots against the 
United States.

I, myself, when I worked at the Justice Department, worked on Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act warrants. They had to do with agents of 
informed power in the United States. Through the use of good 
intelligence overseas, without having to go through the FISA Court, we 
were able to stop a terrorist plot to blow up 10 American cities on the 
4th of July. The voice that was intercepted said, ''Roast the Americans 
on Independence Day.''

Mr. Speaker, this is real. This is a real-life threat to the American 
people. You don't have to take my word for it. I want to read for you a 
letter that was sent to the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, Mr. 
Reyes, from the Attorney General and the Director of National 
Intelligence about the expiration of the Protect America Act. What he 
says, he says, ''Our experience since Congress allowed the Protect 
America Act to expire without passing a bipartisan Senate bill,'' the 
bipartisan bill that was passed overwhelmingly in the Senate, that 
Senator Rockefeller supported, he says, ''demonstrates why the Nation 
is now more vulnerable to a terrorist attack and other foreign 
threats.''

He explained that both the Attorney General and the Director of 
National Intelligence say in this letter to Chairman Reyes that the 
expiration of the authorities in the Protect America Act would plunge, 
would plunge critical intelligence programs into a state of 
uncertainty, which could cause us to delay the gathering of, or simply 
miss critical foreign intelligence information, and then underlined and 
highlighted in this letter, they warn the chairman, the Democratic 
chairman of the Intelligence Committee, that is exactly what has 
happened since the Protect America Act expired 6 days ago without 
enactment of the bipartisan Senate bill. We have lost intelligence 
information this past week as a direct result of the uncertainty 
created by Congress's, by Congress's failure to act.

What is the response from the Democrat leadership here in the House 
in response to a letter that says that we have failed to act in the 
Congress, a dereliction of duty, in my view, by Members of the House. 
Steny Hoyer, the majority leader says, there really is no urgency. 
Let's all just calm down. Intelligence agencies have all the tools they 
need. Really? When the Director of National Intelligence says just the 
opposite.

Chairman Silvestre Reyes says, you know, things will be just fine. 
Things will be just fine. Tell the American people that if we get hit 
again. Tell the three American soldiers who were kidnapped by 
insurgents in Iraq, and because we had to get ''lawyered up'' and go 
through a court in the United States because the time expired, one of 
those soldiers was killed and two we have not heard from since. You 
tell the families that there is no urgency and that things will be just 
fine.

Winning this war on terror, as the 9/11 Commission said, has 
everything to do with connecting the dots. But if we are not allowed to 
collect the dots, there is no way we can connect the dots. That is what 
this debate is all about. It's about being able to capture overseas 
foreign intelligence by terrorists, by people who wish to do us harm, 
who every day are hoping that this will happen again.

With that, I would like to yield to the gentlelady from New Mexico, 
who has really led the fight in the House on this issue, Congresswoman 
Heather Wilson from New Mexico. I would also be interested in your 
account of when this intelligence gap, if you will, this terrorist 
loophole first came to your attention.

With that, I yield.