# MENTAL HEALTH CHALLENGES AT THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
## `3bd5f0ba78a5e7075af4da84220f1241`
`Mr. MANZULLO â€” 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. MANZULLO. Madam Speaker, I rise to raise awareness about a mental 
health concern that is afflicting our brave veterans. Post-Traumatic 
Stress Disorder (PTSD) is an illness that can have devastating 
consequences if not treated. For too long, those suffering from PTSD 
have been unfairly stigmatized. On December 12, 2007, Mike and Kim 
Bowman traveled from their home in northern Illinois to testify about 
the immeasurable tragedy their family has suffered as a result of the 
suicide of their son Specialist Tim Bowman.

Specialist Tim Bowman was 23 years old when he lost his battle with 
PTSD only eight months after returning from active duty in Iraq. The 
Department of Veterans Affairs needs to do more to ensure that all 
members of the armed services receive the care and attention they 
deserve. Mike and Kim's story is one that is all too often repeated 
around the country. As Mike Bowman said in his testimony, ''we must all 
remove the stigma that goes with a soldier admitting that he or she has 
[PTSD].''

I enclose for the Record the testimonies of Mike Bowman and author 
Ilona Meagher. I encourage all Members to read their statements and 
judge for themselves the level of the mental heath challenges that 
exists. It is time that this country recognizes what is going with PTSD 
and takes appropriate action now. No one should suffer a day longer.













Testimony of Mike Bowman




 Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, my wife and I are 


 honored to be speaking before you today representing just one 


 of the families that lost a veteran to suicide in 2005.



 As my family was preparing for our 2005 Thanksgiving meal, 


 our son Timothy was lying on the floor of my shop office, 


 slowly bleeding to death from a self inflicted gun shot 


 wound. His war was now over, his demons were gone. Tim was 


 laid to rest in a combination military, firefighter funeral 


 that was a tribute to the man he was.



 Tim was the life of a party, happy go lucky young man that 


 joined the National Guard in 2003 to earn money for college 


 and get a little structure in his life. On March 19th of 2005 


 when Specialist Bowman got off the bus with the other 


 National Guard soldiers of Foxtrot 202 that were returning 


 from Iraq he was a different man. He had a glaze in his eyes 


 and a 1000 yard stare, always looking for an insurgent.



 Family members of F202 were given a 10 minute briefing on 


 PTSD (Post Traumatic Stress Disorder) 2 months before the 


 soldiers returned and the soldiers were given even less. The 


 commander of F202 had asked the Illinois Guard command to 


 change their demobilization practices to be more like the 


 regular army, only to have his questions rebuffed. He knew 


 that our boys had been shot up, blown up by IED's (Improvised 


 Explosive Device), extinguished fires on soldiers so their 


 parents would have something to bury, and extinguished a fire 


 on their own to save lives. They were hardened combat 


 veterans now, but were being treated like they had been at an 


 extended training mission.



 You see our National Guardsman from F202 were not out 


 filling sand bags. They departed in October of 2003 for 6 


 months of training at Ft's Hood and Polk. On Tim's 22nd 


 birthday, March 4, 2004, Foxtrot left for Iraq where they 


 were stationed at Camp Victory. Their tour took them directly 


 into combat including 4 months on ''the most dangerous road 


 in the world'', the highway from the airport to the green 


 zone in Baghdad. Tim was a top gunner in a humvee. Tim as 


 well as many other soldiers in F202 earned their Purple 


 Hearts on that stretch of road known as Route Irish. We are 


 STILL waiting for Tim's Purple Heart from various military 


 paperwork shuffles.



 When CBS News broke the story about Veterans suicides, the 


 VA took the approach of criticizing the way that the numbers 


 were created instead of embracing it and using it to help 


 increase mental health care within their system. Regardless 


 of how perfectly accurate the numbers are, they obviously 


 show a trend that desperately needs attention. CBS did what 


 NO government agency would do; they tabulated the veteran 


 suicide numbers to shed light on this hidden epidemic and 


 make the American people aware of this situation. The VA 


 should have taken those numbers to Capitol Hill asking for 


 more people, funding, and anything else they need to combat 


 this epidemic. They should embrace this study as it reveals 


 the scope of a huge problem, rather than complaining about 


 its accuracy. If all that is going to be done with the study 


 is argue about how the numbers were compiled, then an average 


 of 120 soldiers will die every week by their own hand 


 until the VA recognizes this fact, and does something 


 about it.



 The VA mental health system is broken in function, and 


 understaffed in operation. There are many cases of soldiers 


 coming to the VA for help and being turned away or 


 misdiagnosed for PTSD and then losing their battle with their 


 demons. Those soldiers, as well as our son Timothy, can never 


 be brought back. No one can change that fact. But you can 


 change the system so this trend can be slowed down 


 dramatically or even stopped.



 Our son was just one of thousands of veterans that this 


 country has lost to suicide. I see every day the pain and 


 grief that our family and extended family goes through in 


 trying to deal with this loss. Every one of those at risk 


 veterans also has a family that will suffer if that soldier 


 finds the only way to take the battlefield pain away is by 


 taking his or her own life. Their ravished and broken spirits 


 are then passed on to their families as they try to justify 


 what has happened. I now suffer from the same mental 


 illnesses that claimed my son's life, PTSD, from the images 


 and sounds of finding him and hearing his life fade away, and 


 depression from a loss that I would not wish on anyone.



 If the veteran suicide rate is not classified as an 


 epidemic that needs immediate and drastic attention, then the 


 American fighting soldier needs someone in Washington who 


 thinks it is. I challenge you to do for the American soldier, 


 what that soldier did for each of you and for his country. 


 Take care of them and help preserve their American dream as 


 they did yours. To quote President Calvin Coolidge, ''The 


 nation which forgets its defenders will be itself 


 forgotten.''



 I challenge you to make the VA an organization to be proud 


 of instead of the last place that a veteran wants to go. It 


 is the obligation of each and every one of you and all 


 Americans, to channel the energies, resources, and the 


 intelligence and wisdom of this nation's Best and Brightest 


 to create the most effective, efficient and meaningful 


 healthcare system for our men and women who have served. You 


 must find a way to remove the stigma that goes with a soldier 


 admitting that he or she has a mental problem. We have the 


 technology to create the most highly advanced military 


 system, but when these Veterans come home, they find an 


 understaffed, underfunded, and underequipped VA mental health 


 system that has so many challenges to get through it, that 


 many just give up trying. The result is the current suicide 


 epidemic among our nation's defenders, one of which was 


 Specialist Timothy Noble Bowman, our 23 year old son, 


 soldier, and hero.



 Our veterans should and must not be left behind in the 


 ravished, horrific battlefields of their broken spirits and 


 minds. Our veterans deserve better!! Mr. Chairman, this 


 concludes my testimony. Thank you.












 Testimony of Ilona Meagher




 Chairman Filner, Ranking Member Buyer, and other 


 distinguished members of the Committee, I thank you for the 


 opportunity to appear before you today.



 To open, I'd like to briefly share my thoughts on why it is 


 that I believe I'm here. I am not only someone who's spent 


 the past two years researching and writing about post-


 traumatic stress in our returning troops, I'm also a 


 veteran's daughter. My father was born in Hungary, served two 


 years in antitank artillery as a Hungarian Army conscript, 


 fought against the Soviet Union on the streets of Budapest 


 during the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, and later fled to 


 America where, in 1958, he again became a soldier, this time 


 wearing a United States Army uniform, and serving as a combat 


 engineer stationed in Germany.



 My father's unique experience of having served on both 


 sides--East and West--in such differing armies during the 


 Cold War, gave him a unique perspective on military life.



 And so, growing up, my sisters and I often heard my father 


 say, ''You can always tell how a government feels about its 


 people by looking at how it treats its soldiers.''



 Looking at our returning soldiers and their widely-reported 


 struggles with the military and VA health care systems they 


 rely on, of being stigmatized from seeking care or of being 


 placed on lengthy VA waiting lists when they need immediate 


 help--some even committing suicide before their appointment 


 dates arrive--have raised this citizen's alarm bells.



 We have had a ''see no evil, hear no evil'' approach to 


 examining post-deployment psychological reintegration issues 


 such as suicide. After all we have learned from the




 struggles of the Vietnam War generation--and the ensuing 


 controversy over how many of its veterans did or did not 


 commit suicide in its wake--why is there today no known 


 national registry where Afghanistan and Iraq veteran suicide 


 data is being collected? How can we ascertain reintegration 


 problems--if any exist--if we are not proactive in seeking 


 them out?



 As late as May 2007, Department of Veterans Affairs 


 spokeswoman Karen Fedele told the Washington Post that there 


 was no attempt to gather Afghanistan and Iraq veteran suicide 


 incidents. ''We don't keep that data,'' she said. ''I'm told 


 that somebody here is going to do an analysis, but there just 


 is nothing right now.''



 Meanwhile, the Army reported its suicide rate in 2006 rose 


 to 17.3 per 100,000 troops, the highest in 26 years of 


 keeping such records. At long last, the Associated Press 


 revealed that the VA is finally conducting preliminary 


 research. They've tracked at least 283 OEF/OIF veteran 


 suicides through the end of 2005, nearly double the rate of 


 the additional 147 suicides reported by the DoD's Defense 


 Manpower Data Center.



 Looking only at the these suicide figures from the VA (283) 


 and the DoD (147), there have been at least 430 Afghanistan 


 and Iraq veteran suicides that have occurred either in the 


 combat zone or stateside following combat deployment. Lost in 


 the VA and DoD counts are those veterans who have returned 


 from their deployments, are still in the military and not yet 


 in the VA system. The DoD says they do not track those 


 incidents, and I assume neither does the VA because these 


 veterans are not yet on their radar.



 Yet even with this omission, many of these 430 confirmed 


 suicides are a result of our wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and 


 should--but won't--be listed with the DoD's official OEF/OIF 


 death toll of 4,351. It bears mentioning: Currently 10 


 percent of the overall fatal casualty count of these wars is 


 due to suicide.



 Dismissing the issue of veteran suicide in the face of this 


 data is negligent and does nothing to honor the service and 


 sacrifice of our veterans and the families and communities 


 that literally are tasked with supporting them once they 


 return.



 Yet, prior to last month's CBS News investigation, which 


 revealed that 120 veterans of all wars committed suicide 


 every week in 2005 and that 20-24 year old Afghanistan and 


 Iraq veterans are two to four times more likely to commit 


 suicide than their civilian counterparts, the scope of the 


 problem has been largely unknown because no one with proper 


 resources and access to do the compiling of data came forward 


 to do so.



 In my written testimony, I've included 75 suicides that I 


 and other citizen journalist colleagues have been tracking 


 since September 2005 and which today reside in the ePluribus 


 Media PTSD Timeline.



 Offering only a small and incomplete sliver of insight into 


 how some of our returning troops are faring on the home 


 front--especially in light of the fact that at least another 


 355 incidents could be added among them according the the VA 


 and DoD--I believe that they collectively tell an even 


 greater tale about the failure of us as individuals and as a 


 society to ensure that our returning warriors are cleansed 


 completely from the psychological wounds of war.



 They also reflect the failure of our government 


 institutions to protect those who protect us.



 While I realize that these distressing stories are the 


 exception and not the rule, to our exceptional military 


 families having to deal with the deterioration of a loved one 


 they thought had safely returned from combat, they are the 


 rule. In 1956, the same year that my parents fled to this 


 incredible country, the 84th Congress--in the very House that 


 we sit in today--had this to say in a presidential commission 


 report on veterans' benefits:



 ''The Government's obligation is to help veterans overcome 


 special, significant handicaps incurred as a consequence of 


 their military service. The objective should be to return 


 veterans as nearly as possible to the status they would have 


 achieved had they not been in military service . . . and 


 maintaining them and their survivors in circumstances as 


 favorable as those of the rest of the people. . . . War 


 sacrifices should be distributed as equally as possible 


 within our society. This is the basic function of our 


 veterans programs.''



 I am not a pedigreed expert or a government official 


 seasoned in testifying before you, but those who are from the 


 GAO and the Congressional Research Department and even the 


 Veterans Administration itself, have sat in this very seat 


 over the years and told you we are falling far short in 


 providing the resources and programs our returning troops and 


 military families need to successfully return to their 


 personal lives following their service to the nation.



 To those who resist hearing the cold hard truth of where we 


 are today, I'd like to say: The time is here to stop fighting 


 the data, and to start fighting for our troops.



 This is America. We can do better. We must do better.
