# None
## `3c05ce61ef40016ea7810becab08c777`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 13 November 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H. Res. 811, Condemning the November 6, 2007, terrorist bombing in 
Afghanistan and expressing condolences to the people of Afghanistan and 
the members of the Wolesi Jirga, introduced by my distinguished 
colleague from North Carolina, Representative David Price. As we all 
know, the situation in Afghanistan is critical, and it is essential 
that we maintain and strengthen our support of Afghanistan for the sake 
of the Afghan people and our own national security.

Mr. Speaker, it was almost exactly 6 years ago that, in response to 
the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the United States launched a military 
operation against Afghanistan, with the intent to capture Osama bin 
Laden, to destroy the al-Qaeda terrorist network, and to remove the 
Taliban regime that had provided support and safe harbor for al-Qaeda. 
Though the Taliban has been removed from power, they have since 
regrouped and are an increasingly resurgent force, while al-Qaeda 
remains a significant threat and Osama bin Laden continues to evade 
capture.

Meanwhile, Afghanistan continues to suffer from the chronic 
instability that has plagued the nation for much of its modern history. 
Its infrastructure and economy have been devastated by decades of 
conflict, the fledgling democratic government continues to face a very 
real threat from the resurgent Taliban, and the people of Afghanistan 
continue to live in a climate of ongoing turmoil, particularly in the 
southern regions of the country, where there are ongoing and dangerous 
clashes between coalition-led forces and insurgents.


This most recent attack that occurred on November 6, 2007 was the 
deadliest suicide attack since the liberation of Afghanistan from the 
Taliban in 2001. This attack deliberately targeted the members of the 
Wolesi Jirga, the directly elected chamber of the National Assembly of 
Afghanistan, which transcended political, regional, and ethnic 
divisions within this war-torn nation. The suicide attack killed at 
least 6 members of the Wolesi Jirga as well as at least 50 Afghan 
citizens, including women and children, and wounded dozens of others.

Mr. Speaker, it is essential that we provide considerable aid for 
Afghanistan, a region which we have consistently underfunded despite 
its critical needs. While we have thrown away billions of taxpayers' 
dollars in Iraq, the real security threat of Afghanistan, home to the 
al-Qaeda and the Taliban, has gone relatively unchecked. This is a 
problem not simply for the United States to handle, but for NATO. We 
must work with our NATO allies to put increased pressure on them to 
step up to the task of addressing the most serious security issues. 
Security is essential to not only economic growth but also makes it 
easier for humanitarian organizations to accomplish their tasks. 
Creating a stable security situation in Afghanistan is an international 
concern.

Furthermore, trends of opium production in Afghanistan have changed. 
According to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), 
''opium cultivation in Afghanistan is no longer associated with 
poverty.'' This is largely due to the fact that the poorer northern 
provinces are seeing a downward trend in poppy cultivation, while 
production and trafficking are growing in the eastern and southern 
provinces. As these are the areas of the, country currently 
experiencing the greatest amount of conflict, UNODC now associates the 
opiate trade with insurgency. According to UNODC, the Taliban have 
''started to extract from the drug economy resources for arms, 
logistics, and militia pay.'' This horrific attack may be directly 
linked to poppy cultivation and opium production, which has as of late 
been used to directly ''support, sustain, and finance insurgents, 
militias, and terrorist organizations operating in Afghanistan.''


In the 110th Congress, we have already passed important legislation 
that, I believe, will help promote peace and freedom in Afghanistan. 
However, it is necessary for us to continue to work together with the 
Afghan government and other members of the international community to 
address the outstanding challenges that continue to threaten the 
nation. As stated in this legislation, the United States must reaffirm 
its long-term commitment to Afghanistan, ''to the establishment of 
security, the strengthening of democratic and civil institutions, and 
the promotion of economic opportunity as the basis for a stable, 
secure, and democratic Afghanistan.

The security and stability of Afghanistan is crucial to the current 
war on terror. The United States must strengthen and sustain its 
support of Afghanistan, we must continue in our commitment to this 
nation at this critical turning point. I am proud cosponsor of this 
legislation and I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting 
this important legislation.