# REQUIRING A REPORT SETTING FORTH THE GLOBAL STRATEGY OF THE UNITED  STATES TO COMBAT AND DEFEAT AL QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATES--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `3c17926a9a24841f616cbd27f38c27e6`
`Mr. THUNE â€” 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. THUNE. Madam President, today I rise to honor MSG Woodrow Wilson 
''Woody'' Keeble for earning the Medal of Honor for his heroic service 
to our country in World War II and the Korean war. Although President 
Bush won't present the medal to Master Sergeant Keeble's family until 
next Monday, this is indeed an historic event as he is the first member 
of the Great Sioux Nation to be awarded this honor.

Master Sergeant Keeble went beyond the call of duty not for a medal, 
but for the mission he believed in and the country he loved. His legacy 
is a great source of pride for his family, his fellow South Dakota 
Sioux, and all Americans. The example he set for the just cause of 
defending freedom and democracy is truly heroic.

Master Sergeant Keeble was born in Waubay, SD, in 1917 to parents 
from the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux tribe. Master Sergeant Keeble's mother 
died at a young age, forcing his father to enroll him in the Wahpeton 
Indian School so he could get an education and three meals a day.

After graduating, Master Sergeant Keeble worked at the school and 
became well known for his baseball pitching, a skill that would serve 
him well in combat. In fact, the Chicago White Sox were actively 
recruiting him to play professional baseball when he was called into 
action in World War II.

After basic training, Master Sergeant Keeble served with ''I'' 
Company of North Dakota's 164th Infantry Regiment. He trained in 
Louisiana and was soon deployed to Australia to prepare for operations 
in the Pacific Theater. There, Master Sergeant Keeble's regiment was 
assigned to the 23rd Infantry Division, better known as the Americal 
Division.

On October 13, 1942, Master Sergeant Keeble landed on Guadalcanal in 
support of the First Marine Division, which had suffered heavy losses 
from the relentless Japanese forces. This was the first offensive 
operation the U.S. Army had conducted against the enemy in any theater 
of World War II.

Fighting alongside Marines, Master Sergeant Keeble gained valuable 
experience in jungle warfare that would later prove valuable in future 
operations.

The campaign on Guadalcanal saw some of the most brutal combat of the 
war. Japanese troops adopted the ''banzai charge'' tactic of attacking 
in human waves and hand-to-hand combat would sometimes last through the 
night. During this operation, Master Sergeant Keeble developed expert 
control of his Browning automatic rifle. He also earned a reputation 
for bravery as one of the best fighters on the island because his 
pitching skills came in handy as he used his incredibly strong arm to 
effectively throw grenades into enemy bunkers. James Fenelon, a member 
of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe who fought beside Master Sergeant 
Keeble once said, ''The safest place to be was right next to Woody. I 
don't know how many rounds he carried, but he had bandoliers on each 
shoulder. His gun just never stopped--no matter where you were, there 
were Japanese. He was unbelievable.''

Master Sergeant Keeble was awarded his first Bronze Star and Purple 
Heart at Guadalcanal for his meritorious actions in ground operations 
against the Japanese. His division fought so valiantly that they 
received a Navy Presidential Unit Citation for their support of the 
Marines. After Japan surrendered, the 164th occupied the Yokohama 
region of Japan.

After the war, Master Sergeant Keeble returned to Wahpeton and 
resumed work at the Wahpeton Indian School. He married Nattie Abigail 
Owen-Robertson on November 14, 1947, and settled down to start a 
family.

However, Master Sergeant Keeble's rest would not be a long one as the 
164th was reactivated in 1951 to serve in the Korean war. After 
training at Camp Rucker, Alabama, several of Master Sergeant Keeble's 
fellow sergeants were to be selected for deployment to the front lines 
in Korea. After agreeing to draw straws to decide who would take this 
unwanted duty, Master Sergeant Keeble volunteered to take a short straw 
saying, ''Somebody has to teach these kids how to fight.''

The leadership and bravery Master Sergeant Keeble displayed in 
volunteering continued through his time in Korea. He was assigned to 
George Company, 19th Infantry Regiment, 24th Infantry Division. His 
strong character, robust leadership, and jungle combat experience 
brought him several quick promotions to the level of Master Sergeant. 
The Regimental leadership saw his potential, and placed him in charge 
of the first platoon.

On October 15, 1951, in a particularly bloody battle near Kumsong, 
North Korea, all of the officers of G Company were either wounded or 
killed in combat. Master Sergeant Keeble was among the wounded, but 
demanded he be released after treatment and volunteered to lead the 
1st, 2nd, and 3rd Platoons in assaults against the enemy.

On October 17, Master Sergeant Keeble was again wounded, and again 
returned to battle after being treated. His actions on the following 
day, October 18, earned him the Silver Star for continuing to lead his 
men after being


hit by grenade shrapnel. During this battle, Master Sergeant Keeble 
suffered two bullet wounds to his left arm, a grenade blast near his 
face that nearly removed his nose, and a badly twisted knee. On October 
19, doctors removed 83 pieces of shrapnel from Master Sergeant Keeble's 
wounds.

The following day, October 20, 1951, would prove to be Master 
Sergeant Keeble's most heroic. After insisting he be allowed back to 
combat, Master Sergeant Keeble cemented his place in history. While 
leading the 1st Platoon up a steep hill during this battle, he saw that 
machine gun fire from three enemy emplacements had pinned down the 
entire 2nd Platoon on the same hill. The steep, rocky terrain was of 
tactical importance and Master Sergeant Keeble took it upon himself to 
ensure the operation carried on.

Master Sergeant Keeble crawled ahead to the 2nd Platoon. He then 
continued to advance on the enemy by crawling forward on his own. 
Although the enemy began to train all of its fire on Master Sergeant 
Keeble, he continued to hug the ground and advance until he was close 
to the emplacements. He then activated a grenade and successfully 
destroyed one of the enemy positions. Continuing his assault, Master 
Sergeant Keeble moved towards the remaining two machine gun posts and 
single handedly destroyed both of them with grenades. After removing 
the last position, he was stunned with an enemy concussion grenade, but 
pressed on after he recovered. Master Sergeant Keeble then resumed his 
advance and neutralized the remaining enemy personnel with his rifle.

In all, Master Sergeant Keeble eliminated nine machine gunners and 
seven riflemen. His heroic determination to press on and endure enemy 
fire inspired his fellow servicemen to rally and continue advancing on 
the enemy. By the end of the campaign, Master Sergeant Keeble had 
received five separate wounds to his chest, both arms, and both legs. 
Despite all of these injuries, Master Sergeant Keeble only received one 
Purple Heart, with the Oak Leaf Cluster, bringing his total to two. He 
was also awarded the Distinguished Service Cross and the Bronze Star 
First Oak Leaf Cluster.

Although he has been recommended twice for the Medal of Honor, it was 
never granted. That is why I rise today and honor Master Sergeant 
Keeble for finally being recognized for his truly remarkable heroism 
and valor. While he died in 1982 in part due to complications resulting 
from his war injuries, I am sure he would be proud to know that he has 
finally been given this honor he earned long ago.

Master Sergeant Keeble stood proudly for his country, his tribe and 
his family. He was strong, humble, compassionate, and committed to 
defending freedom. His actions were extraordinary and his bravery 
overcame the chaos that surrounded him. Master Sergeant Keeble once 
said, ''There were terrible moments that encompassed a lifetime, an 
endlessness, when terror was so strong in me, that I could feel idiocy 
replace reason. Yet, I have never left my position, nor have I shirked 
hazardous duty. Fear did not make a coward out of me.''

I am proud that next Monday, President Bush will be presenting this 
honor posthumously to Master Sergeant Woodrow Wilson ''Woody'' Keeble. 
His bravery is undoubtedly deserving of the Medal of Honor he has 
finally been awarded after a 55-year wait. The legacy he has left is a 
source of pride for his family, the Great Sioux Nation, and the country 
he nobly served.

Madam President, I would like to, if I might, shift gears and speak 
for a moment to some of the debate that has been going on on the Senate 
floor this week dealing with, primarily, the resolution that has been 
offered by the Senator from Wisconsin, Mr. Feingold, dealing with the 
withdrawal from Iraq and also the more recent resolution which has been 
the subject of debate here today on the Senate floor. But I think it is 
important that we also, as we debate these issues, acknowledge the good 
work that has been done by our troops.

Make no mistake about it, we are making progress in Iraq. The 
Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, GEN Michael Maples, who 
was this week here in Washington and testifying in front of the Armed 
Services Committee, commented that violence across Iraq has declined to 
its lowest level since April 2005 and violence against coalition troops 
is at the lowest level since March of 2004. Things are, indeed, 
trending in the right direction, especially compared to a year ago.

Although these trends are certainly reversible, the fact remains that 
the security situation in Iraq has improved significantly. The surge 
has and is working. The surge has worked despite relentless efforts to 
undermine it by several Members on the other side of the aisle.

At one point last year, we had people saying the surge had not 
accomplished anything. We heard a Democrat on the floor of the Senate 
saying that General Petraeus, our commander in Iraq who has so 
brilliantly led the surge, had been ''made the de facto spokesman for 
what many of us believe to be a failed policy'' and that ''the reports 
you provide to us really require the willing suspension of disbelief.'' 
Thankfully, they were wrong--utterly wrong. Nevertheless, the other 
side is continuing their wrongheaded approach by offering legislation 
again this week that would undo all of the progress our troops have 
made in Iraq. Once again, the extreme left in this country has demanded 
a vote on cutting off funds for our troops and near immediate 
withdrawal from Iraq. The leadership on the other side continues to 
make obligatory gestures to satisfy that extreme leftwing base.

The Senate voted four times last year on versions of this bill that 
we debated earlier this week to cut off funds for the troops in Iraq, 
and on four separate occasions the Senate rejected it. The legislation 
was defeated by overwhelming bipartisan margins. It never received more 
than 29 votes. Yet again this week, we went through the exercise of 
having yet another debate on this issue.

I think it was about a year ago this week, actually, we had a rare 
Saturday session where Members were called back in to make votes on an 
Iraq withdrawal resolution, again designed to score political points to 
undermine progress in Iraq rather than to get anything else done.

I think it is important to note--as we think about how we best combat 
the terrorist threat we face in this country and how we assist those 
young men and women who are carrying that fight overseas for us--we 
find today the House of Representatives has adjourned for the week 
after having acted on, I think, the naming of five post offices, when 
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act has still yet to be voted on 
in the House of Representatives.

The Senate, before we took off for our last recess, voted by a margin 
of 68 to 29 to pass the terrorist surveillance bill through the Senate. 
It had broad bipartisan support in the Senate. If it had been taken up 
on the floor of the House, it would have passed there with broad 
bipartisan support as well. Yet we have the House today adjourning to 
go home, having acted on five resolutions to name post offices, without 
addressing what is one of the most important issues we all need to deal 
with here; that is, making sure our intelligence community and our law 
enforcement community and our men and women in uniform have the tools 
at their disposal to do the job we asked them to do.

It is critical that the intelligence community have that legislation 
passed so we can close gaps in our intelligence collection. We need 
that to get a better understanding of international al-Qaida networks 
and to gain insight into future terrorist plans and to disrupt 
potential terrorist attacks.

So I would hope cooler heads will prevail around here, that Congress 
will do the right thing for the protection of the American people, the 
right thing to aid those who are diligently working day in and day 
out--those in our intelligence community, those in our law enforcement 
community, those men and women in uniform who are fighting to keep this 
country safe--that they have the tools at their disposal to carry out 
the important responsibility we have given them to protect Americans. 
Acting on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and giving our 
intelligence community, under this terrorist surveillance bill, the 
authorities it needs to intercept communications that are being 
conducted by terrorists around the world would be an


important place to start. Right now, we have a gap in that intelligence 
collection because the House has failed to act on this very important 
piece of legislation. It is irresponsible.

It is important that we put the politics of this matter aside and we 
deal with the important issues that will keep America safe and ensure 
future generations of Americans are not subject to terrorist attacks. 
So I hope my colleagues will get the message, will come back into 
session, and take care of business, which is to get this important 
legislation passed, and act with the Senate in a broad bipartisan way 
to put a bill on the President's desk that he can sign into law that 
will make sure our intelligence community has the resources and the 
tools they need.

Madam President, I yield back the remainder of my time.