# None
## `3d79047807b6d2e031aa99688ff167d7`
`Ms. KILPATRICK of Michigan â€” 3 December 2009`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 
4154, the Permanent Estate Tax Relief of Families, Farmers, and Small 
Businesses. I am worried sick that we have misplaced our priorities as 
Congress when we are voting on legislation to permanently, not 
temporarily, extend a tax cut to the richest, top 1 percent, of all 
income earners when Congress has not passed a public works job program 
for the unemployed. We are sending 30,000 of America's finest young men 
and women off to war in Afghanistan at the estimated potential cost of 
$20 billion per year. Congress must pass a public works job program.

This bill has not been considered through regular order. This bill 
has had zero hearings, there have been no subcommittee or full 
committee mark ups by the House Ways and Means Committee.

We currently have more than 15 million unemployed Americans. The 
national unemployment rate is more than 10 percent. In the State of 
Michigan, we have a reported rate of more than 15 percent, and in the 
city of Detroit, the unemployment rate is more than 28 percent. These 
are the reported rates. As Chairperson of the Congressional Black 
Caucus during the 110th Session of Congress, from 2007 to 2008, I 
pushed to get a public works program. I also worked to get an 
aggressive summer jobs program in 2008. Both to no avail.

It would not be difficult to get a public works program done 
immediately. Working from the template that was established with the 
Civilian Conservation Corps, CCC, during the Depression era, updated by 
the Comprehensive Employment Training Act, CETA, we could insert 
language in one of the remaining Appropriations bills for 
consideration. Not only to get such a bill authorized, but appropriated 
as well. This would help hundreds of thousands, if not millions, get 
the best stimulus package there is--a job. The American people are 
begging Congress to do something to help them with employment. Private 
industry cannot do it alone. Our states and our cities do not have the 
resources to employ our people. It is up to Congress to make that 
happen. The Federal Government is the employer of last resort.

The President, just this week, will send 30,000 additional troops to 
Afghanistan. This troop build-up, in America's second longest war, is 
estimated to cost half a million dollars per servicemember, and an 
estimated $20 billion per year. These troops will be on the ground in 
Afghanistan in less than 3 weeks. Meanwhile, Congress will still have 
done nothing toward getting jobs for their parents, their siblings, or 
their neighbors through a public works jobs program.

I am proud of my vote in favor of the economic stimulus package, 
which has helped to delay our downward economic spiral. The abysmal 
unemployment rate, however, demands that Congress do more. An 
aggressive public works jobs program, with funding from the Federal 
Government going directly to cities and counties, providing jobs and 
training, focusing on infrastructure development and based on the 
successful Civilian Conservation Corps and Comprehensive Employment 
Training Acts, is what America wants and Americans need. Infrastructure 
investment has created more jobs, with fewer dollars, and with


less time than any other Recovery Act program. There are still 9,500 
shovel-ready projects across the country that could get started in the 
next 120 days. An aggressive investment by Congress in a new Civilian 
Conservation Corps or Comprehensive Employment Training Act focused on 
infrastructure repair and improvement would create thousands of 
American manufacturing jobs, American construction jobs, American city 
and county government jobs, and American service sector jobs.

Why is the House of Representatives today pushing for a permanent 
extension at this time of this legislation, when the Ways and Means 
Committee asked for a temporary extension? Furthermore, the Senate has 
said that they will only consider a temporary extension--which, in 
these fiscally austere times, is certainly reasonable.

I am a supporter of our families, our farmers and our small 
businesses. I want our families, farmers, and small businesses to 
succeed. The timing for this permanent extension to the wealthiest 1 
percent of all Americans, when we have more than 15 million Americans 
out of work, is wrong. I will continue to fight in Congress for a new, 
comprehensive public work jobs program that will get Americans, who 
want to work, back on the job.