# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `3d8fa99e343437cb5f42dede209e8b04`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida â€” 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, in December 2007, I became 
involved in an issue that I continue to work on today. The issue is our 
government's failure to prosecute multiple incidents of sexual assault 
against American civilians working alongside our military in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

After surviving sometimes brutal attacks, these civilians too often 
found themselves in a legal blackhole. No one could tell them how to 
report the crime. No one knew who should investigate, putting precious 
time and evidence at risk. And perhaps worst of all, no one could 
guarantee their personal safety. Their attackers, meanwhile, usually 
fell outside the Uniform Code of Military Justice, UCMJ, the legal code 
that our men and women in uniform must obey, and beyond the effective 
reach of our criminal laws.

Over the last 2 years, I have been in frequent contact with the 
Departments of Defense, State, and Justice to ascertain the scope of 
this problem. Although these agencies have, on the whole, cooperated 
with my requests, I am not satisfied that we have a full picture of the 
number of sexual assaults perpetrated against Americans--contractors 
and military--in Iraq and Afghanistan. Nor do I believe that the 
respective departments have clear policies in place to address crimes 
committed by and against U.S. contractors serving in the war zones.

In April 2008, I chaired a hearing in the Foreign Relations Committee 
that included harrowing testimony from Mary Beth Kineston and Dawn 
Leamon, who were former civilian contractors for Kellogg Brown & Root, 
better known as KBR, which is a former subsidiary of Halliburton. These 
patriots testified that they were sexually assaulted while working for 
KBR in Iraq. In written testimony submitted to the committee, another 
woman, Jamie Leigh Jones, wrote of being drugged and gang-raped by her 
coworkers, also while working for KBR in Iraq. When she reported the 
crime to her superiors, Ms. Jones was locked in a shipping container. 
Not until her father was able to contact Congressman Ted Poe was Ms. 
Jones rescued from captivity.

When similar crimes are committed within the United States, on a 
permanent military base, or at one of our embassies overseas, the 
authority and responsibility to prosecute these crimes is clear. Yet 
because these crimes were committed abroad and the victims were 
civilians, their stories never see the light of day. There is no jury, 
no public record and no transcript.

Additionally, in many cases the victims' employer has moved for such 
cases to be heard in private arbitration. At the hearing, Dawn Leamon 
stated that there was an arbitration clause in the employment agreement 
she signed, and that KBR used that clause to prevent her from seeking 
justice in a court of law. These arbitration clauses, which have become 
all too common, protect the companies from accountability when a crime 
occurs.

In response to the hearing and testimony of these courageous women, I 
offered an amendment in mark-up of the 2009 National Defense 
Authorization Act that later became law, Public Law 110-417. That 
amendment required government contractors to report crimes committed by 
or against employees in Iraq or Afghanistan to the appropriate U.S. 
government authorities. The law now requires contractors to have in 
place resources to assist victims and witnesses of crimes, so that 
there is a place to go for help. I also attempted to include a 
provision that would prevent contractors from requiring employees to 
enter into mandatory arbitration contracts.

I am pleased that Senator Franken has taken an interest in this 
important issue, and I am cosponsoring the Franken amendment, Senate 
amendment No. 2588, which denies funding to Department of Defense 
contractors who continue to use mandatory arbitration clauses to force 
sexual assault victims into arbitration. If adopted, this important 
amendment would close the legal loophole that prevents the victims of 
sexual assault from getting the justice they deserve. It is my hope 
that justice for these women will encourage reform to the entire 
system.

I encourage my colleagues to join us in unanimously adopting this 
amendment. It is my hope that such a showing of support will urge its 
adoption in the final conference bill. It is imperative that this 
provision become law.