# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `3da0ed610d3d8d811e3d89c1ea4b182c`
`Mr. BUYER â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BUYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

As a good listener of the gentlelady's remarks, I would think she 
would be in support of the President's plan. I agree with her when she 
was talking about what is necessary for Iraq to govern itself, but in 
order for this country to begin to govern itself, it also needs to have 
security, and the Iraqi people themselves must have a belief in the 
support of that new unity government.

Now, with regard to the Iraqis themselves, whom we have been 
training, that is, the Iraqi Army and the Iraqi police force, that is 
exactly what the plan is. The plan is for the Iraqis to take the lead.

So the gentlelady's remarks confuse me, because as she says, I want 
the political apparatus to do this, but I define Petraeus' need for 
additional troops as an escalation. Therefore, she advocates for the 
status quo, and everybody knows the status quo is for failure. The 
remarks confuse me.

The commander on the ground of our forces in Baghdad just said on 
January 26, that this is about Iraqis taking charge of their own 
security. In order for them to do that, we have to buy them time to 
continue to train and for the government to become more legitimate in 
the eyes of the Iraqi people. Earlier what I said, the mission is to 
govern, sustain and defend. You have the political, economic and 
security necessities to accomplish that mission. I think everybody in 
this body is going to agree.

When I met with President Talabani in August, we talked about the 
establishment of the rule of law, we talked about the implementation of 
the national plan of reconciliation, the distribution of the oil 
revenue, the modernization of their electrical grid. Promoting Iraqi 
unity was really deep on the President's mind.

I wrote a note here after I met with him. The note I wrote was I 
believe the unity federal government has a real challenge. Their 
challenge is to convince the Iraqi political, religious and civil 
society leaders to compromise for a sustainable settlement to support 
the new federalism. That is the challenge.

So I am challenged when I hear individuals say, well, on the security 
apparatus, let's just get U.S. forces out of there, we'll let the 
Iraqis take care of this. The question is, are the Iraqis prepared to 
do it alone? I haven't heard anybody say they are, that they can do it 
alone.

The Iraqis in turn said we still need coalition assistance, and so 
the commanders on the ground say we need these more troops to do this. 
We are sending General Petraeus, our best commander, to the field.

Mr. Speaker, a father-in-law of a soldier wrote this 10 days ago: 
''From where I am sitting, it seems that threatening loss of funding 
for operations in Iraq, tying the hands of senior officers, to say 
nothing of the Commander in Chief, and proposing to legislate the 
conduct of this war, looks worse than cut and run. It feels like 
betrayal of the families who bear the burdens.''

I can remember being in the desert in the first gulf war while this 
body debated a resolution on the utilization of force. I know what it 
was like to lose a friend in war. I shed the tears of my father when he 
lost buddies for his Army service in Korea.

Challenged by my own Member of Congress who voted against that 
resolution, I felt betrayed. While I was in the desert, I felt 
betrayed, so much so that I vowed while I stood at that cemetery in 
Lafayette, Indiana, the funeral of my friend, that I felt I still had a 
mission left, and it was to come help the country again.

So I ran against that incumbent Member of Congress who I felt 
betrayed me while I was in the desert in the gulf war. I had never run 
for any political office in my life. I was elected in this body at the 
age of 32 with so much to learn.

But I have never forgotten about the soldier, the sailor, the airman, 
the marine and the coast guardsman. I am so proud of them and what they 
do.

The world of an American soldier is more complex today than ever 
before, with technology, intricate rules of engagement designed to 
eliminate the loss of noncombatant life and a tough, innovative and 
savvy enemy. Our soldiers who are in the fight are watching and 
listening.

One wrote from Iraq 2 weeks ago: ''Until victory or until the 
perseverance and the spirit of the American will arose, victory in Iraq 
is achievable by our amazingly capable and determined Armed Forces. 
Their effort will only be undercut by self-serving politicking and 
pointless impatience. If we decide we want victory, we will have it. If 
we quit on our effort, we will have defeat.''

Contending with the complexity of today's battlefield and the ripple 
effects of politics 6,000 miles away, our soldiers live and measure 
value by simple enduring imperatives. They place a lot of value in 
loyalty. They count on each other, loyal to each other, to their 
commanders and to their oath to defend the Constitution, and their love 
of country helps them do their duty. A warrior bears true faith and 
allegiance.



Members of our Armed Forces live and die by the readiness of their 
buddies to express their loyalty in the conduct of faithful duty. They 
expect no less of their leaders up the chain, whether they wear the 
stripes and diamond of a first sergeant, the eagles of a colonel, or 
the stars of an admiral or general, or their leaders in government, 
both executive and legislative branches.

Yet, in response, what do we offer? The fortitude of contradiction I 
say. The Senate unanimously confirms a new multinational force 
commander, General David Petraeus, whose most compelling value is 
perhaps his reputation for unrivaled understanding for his clear grasp 
of counterinsurgencies.

Yet the authors of the resolution before us seek to deny our best 
commander the manpower assets he has asked for to prevail. What a 
disturbing contradiction. The Senate unanimously says, this is our best 
commander. Before they vote and say we are going to send you, he says, 
I need these five brigades. Then this body drafts a resolution that 
says, we do not think he should have the five brigades.

I suppose we have the Senate and the House now in complete 
contradiction. General Petraeus is a decisive man who has a decisive 
strategy, and he intends to reinforce our troops and root out the 
enemy. Aside from the gratuitous gloom that is smothering the debate on 
Iraq, moving in reinforced strength to destroy an enemy is a time-
honored and frequently successful course of military action.

It is so especially when conducted by a capable commander. We have 
already agreed that General Petraeus is such a commander. Many of us 
know that this is what our troops yearn to do. It is what Americans 
yearn for us to do, prevail.

Now, lest one of my colleagues is tempted to try some contextual 
mischief, we all know that military victory with the right strategy is 
only part of the equation of success in Iraq. Real success is not a 
quick, easy affair. I might offer success as defined by the 
establishment of a stable, popularly elected government, the rise of 
the rule of law, and the stability necessary to foster the growth of a 
strong middle class.

That will take a combined and continued effort using diplomatic, 
informational and economic levers. But those levers cannot fully 
operate without security. And that is the challenge I have in listening 
to this debate. We in Congress have confirmed General Petraeus and sent 
him now into battle.

And what now do some want to do with him? They seek to turn the House 
floor into a cockpit of battlefield wisdom to disavow his strategy. 
Some may say, go to Iraq, Commander. Disregard the strategy that you 
talked about in the Senate. Instead use your brilliance to conduct a 
feckless campaign of status quo.

The resolution before us disavows the human assets our commander 
needs to accomplish his mission. But then it says, we support the 
troops. How can you say we support the troops but you don't give the 
commander that which he says he needs? I do not understand.

I am a colonel in the Army Reserve. I have served for 26 years this 
Nation. How can you say to me, Steve, I support you. I will give you 
the beams, the bullets, the ammo, the water. I will


give you anything you need, but do not ask me for any troops and good 
luck on your mission. Because you do not get to ask for reinforcements. 
You do not even get to ask for anybody else.

As we know the Pelosi-Murtha real strategy is to slowly bleed our 
battlefield commander dry. They know he cannot prevail waging a 
campaign of the status quo. So some will slowly reduce funding for his 
Army in an effort for it to wither on the vine. And it to me is 
disgraceful.

Ladies and gentlemen, does this fit the definition of loyalty and 
support of members of the United States Armed Forces serving bravely in 
Iraq?

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.