# None
## `3ea45ac53116fc3b5bb51f3eb637ed37`
`Mr. TIAHRT â€” 13 February 2008`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. I thank the gentleman from Florida and the gentleman from 
Texas for their assistance in helping me with this very fine piece of 
legislation.

Mr. Speaker, last summer, one of my constituents, Randy Cabral, 
president of the Kansas Braille Transcript Institute, e-mailed me with 
an idea, to place an American Braille flag at Arlington National 
Cemetery. Today, we see the fruition of one man's idea.

Prior to the creation of the American Braille flag, the American flag 
was not accessible to the blind. This flag was created by the Kansas 
Braille Transcript Institute in Wichita, Kansas.

As you can see on this poster to my left, the flag has been specially 
designed in a way that informs the blind of the full color of the 
American flag, the 13 stripes and the 50 stars on a blue field. 
Additionally, this tactile flag bears the Pledge of Allegiance, both in 
raised print and in grade one Braille.

Few know that our Nation has more than 1 million blind and low-vision 
veterans, and those numbers continue to rise. The Department of Defense 
estimates that 16 percent of those injured in Operation Iraqi Freedom 
and Operation Enduring Freedom suffer from severe vision loss. An 
additional 10 to 12 million Americans are blind or of low vision.

The American Braille Flag Memorial Act authorizes the placement of an 
American Braille flag at Arlington National Cemetery, a national place 
of remembrance and honor for our Nation's veterans. The cemetery is 
visited by an estimated 4 million people annually. The American Braille 
Flag Memorial will bring honor to our Nation's blind community and 
allow our blind veterans to see the American flag again.

In order to ensure that this effort will enhance and not detract from 
the cemetery, I have worked with the superintendent of the Arlington 
National Cemetery, John Metzler. Mr. Metzler believes that a 15-inch by 
17-inch bronze replica of the American Braille flag would be a 
wonderful addition to the visitors center at the cemetery.

This is a unique bronze replica, and, as such, this new drawing and 
special casting had to be commissioned. The drawings for the bronze 
replica were completed by Kevin West, a student at Wichita Area 
Technical College. Kevin is a specialist in the Kansas Army National 
Guard. He is also a veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation 
Enduring Freedom. He served in the 778th Combat Heavy Equipment 
Transport Group, or HET, out of Kansas City, Kansas, as both a convoy 
security and a HET operator. Let me take this moment to thank Kevin for 
his service to the Nation.

The actual bronze flag memorial will be cast free of charge by the 
Truxes Company of Oswego, Illinois. The Truxes Company was founded by 
another American hero, Mr. Bill Truxes. Mr. Truxes joined the Army Air 
Corps during World War II and served as a B-24 pilot. While serving in 
World War II, he was shot down during the Battle of the Bulge and 
became a POW in Germany in 1944. He was liberated at the end of the 
war. I greatly appreciate Mr. Truxes' patriotism and generosity in 
agreeing to donate the bronze casting, and I also want to thank him for 
his service.

With Mr. West and Mr. Truxes both donating their service, and the 
Kansas Braille Transcription Institute donating the transportation, 
this entire project will be provided to the government free of charge.

Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my 16 cosponsors and the Blind Veterans 
of America for their endorsement and support of this effort. But more 
importantly, I want to thank those who served this Nation. We owe a 
huge debt of gratitude to our veterans, and this simple action will 
mean much more to our patriotic blind veterans.

I encourage my colleagues to join with me in supporting this effort 
and placing the Braille flag at Arlington National Cemetery.