# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `3eb232d3d5a46e47bb9ae2a06efdfbae`
`Mr. McKEON â€” 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. McKEON. Madam Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 1585, the 
National Defense Authorization Act.

First, let me extend my thanks to Armed Services Committee Chairman 
Skelton and Ranking Republican Duncan Hunter for bringing this partisan 
legislation to the Floor today. The bill before us authorizes funding 
for our national defense programs in the coming year, including our 
military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. It enjoys the support of 
both Republicans and Democrats on the Armed Services Committee, and in 
fact was reported out of committee by a unanimous vote. I am very 
pleased to note that while some circumstances have changed in this 
Congress, the Armed Services Committee remains one in which Members on 
both sides of the aisle remain committed to comity, bipartisanship, and 
the best interests of our Nation's defense and our brave men and women 
in uniform. I congratulate both Chairman Skelton and Mr. Hunter on 
their successful efforts, and intend to vote in support of this bill 
later today.

I would take this opportunity to raise concern with one of the 
amendments made in order under the rule, specifically, the Altmire/
Udall Amendment, which would expand employer mandates under the Family 
and Medical Leave Act. Let me state at the outset that I will not 
oppose this amendment, nor will I urge my Republican colleagues to do 
so. I do, however, for the record and for the good of this legislation 
going forward, want to note my strong concerns with this amendment.

First, let me say that as a matter of procedure and responsible 
legislative process, I am deeply troubled that this amendment comes to 
the Floor today without so much as a cursory examination by the only 
committee of jurisdiction in the House, the Committee on Education and 
Labor, on which I serve as Senior Republican Member. The Altmire/Udall 
Amendment represents a significant expansion of the Family and Medical 
Leave Act, and would be the first such expansion in the 14-year history 
of the Act. Yet it has not been the subject of a single hearing in the 
Committee on Education and Labor, nor has any Member of the House or my 
Committee had the opportunity to examine the impact of this amendment 
in even the broadest sense. Where, as under this amendment, we are 
talking about expanding a federal mandate that potentially impacts 
large and small employers in every industry and every state in the 
union, I think we owe more to our constituents.

I do not want my concern and my remarks to be construed as simply 
procedural, or solely a function of marking jurisdictional turf. While 
I do believe that respect for the committee legislative process is 
important, I want to make clear that I have substantive concerns as a 
matter of policy with the Altmire/Udall Amendment. The Amendment would 
appear to broadly expand the Family and Medical Leave Act, allowing any 
covered employee to make use of leave for ''any exigency'' that arises 
out of the fact that a family member is called to active duty. Now I am 
certain that Members on both sides of the aisle would agree that the 
question of whether and how we ensure that workers whose families have 
been impacted by a call-up to active duty are able to address 
legitimate needs is a valid question. I am concerned, however, that the 
language of the Altmire/Udall Amendment may go much further than 
intended, and potentially create an overly broad use of leave. 
Similarly, under the Amendment, an employee could use this leave 
intermittently, in very small increments, and in many instances, with 
potentially little or no advance notice to an employer.

Earlier this year, the Department of Labor set forth a Request for 
Information seeking detailed evidence and recommendations for both 
regulatory and legislative changes to the Family and Medical Leave Act. 
That process is ongoing as we speak. Members on both sides of the aisle 
and various stakeholders have made clear that the Act deserves serious 
examination--particularly with respect to questions as to when and how 
leave can be taken, and what sorts of leave and notice are appropriate. 
In light of these facts, to embark on piecemeal expansion of one of the 
most significant federal labor laws adopted in the last 20 years, 
strikes me as irresponsible, and setting a very bad precedent.



As I indicated, I think I understand the concerns of the sponsor that 
this amendment is intended to address, and I think those are concerns 
that many might share. For that reason, I will not oppose the 
amendment. I've made my concerns with both the substance and procedure 
of this amendment clear. I would hope that as this bill moves forward, 
and if we find ourselves in conference with the other body, we will 
take the necessary time to examine this amendment in detail, and work 
towards ensuring that it accomplishes its goals in a reasonable, 
responsible, and targeted way.