# None
## `3f8781f4be6b6afe54b94e0283288840`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON â€” 27 February 2008`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, I rise today to strongly oppose any 
Senate amendment that would require the immediate and arbitrary 
withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq. This amendment is the latest 
attempt in a year-long effort to constrain the ability of our generals 
and our brave men and women in uniform to fight this war effectively.

During the past year, the Senate has voted over 40 times on bills to 
limit the generals' war strategy. Not one has become law or even come 
close. Since this assembly line of votes started in February 2007, the 
situation in Iraq has changed considerably and it has changed for the 
better.

While some Senators were insisting that the war was lost, General 
Petraeus was in the process of implementing a strategic readjustment 
that has produced remarkable progress on the battlefield. It has been 
said on this floor: We need to change the direction. We are changing 
the direction. We are changing the strategy. We are going in the right 
direction.

I got back from Iraq 2 days ago. I saw for myself the enormous 
military gains we have achieved in that country. While in Baghdad, I 
put on a suit of body armor. I traveled in an MRAP vehicle with our 
troops through the streets of Baghdad. I was able to go to a police 
station where we have embedded troops there.

I met with General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker, and troops from 
Reese Air Force Base, Ft. Hood, the Red River Army Depot, and others 
from the Texas National Guard. Because of the leadership of our 
commanders and the courage of our service men and women, there is new 
reason for optimism in Iraq.

The numbers speak for themselves. The murder rate in Baghdad has 
plunged by 80 percent. Al-Qaida has been routed in every neighborhood. 
Iraqi forces have formally taken control of security across much of the 
country. Violence is at the lowest level since 2003. Roadside bomb 
attacks have receded to a 3-year low. Discovery of weapons caches has 
more than doubled in the last year. The Iraqi security forces have 
grown to 440,000 trained and equipped.

At the police station where our Armed Forces are embedded with the 
Iraqi police, I can see that the Iraqis are taking more responsibility 
for their security. The Sons of Iraq are an example of that growth and 
responsibility. The Sons of Iraq, which is now over 90,000 strong, 
essentially serve as neighborhood watches and manned checkpoints. By 
providing forces for protecting key infrastructure and information 
about al-Qaida, the Sons of Iraq has enabled coalition forces to target 
al-Qaida precisely. This ensures the right people are targeted, and it 
helps avoid collateral damage, both of which are helping to strengthen 
confidence in the Iraqi Government.

The transition in responsibility from the U.S. military to Iraqi 
authority is a major step toward decreasing the presence of the United 
States in Iraq.

There are other reasons to be hopeful about the future. Our military 
gains are beginning to contribute to the political gains. Recently the 
Iraqi Parliament passed three laws that should begin to bring the 
Sunnis more fully into the governing process and achieve national 
reconciliation.

First, Parliament passed a law that bolsters the power of the 
provinces to provide roads and utilities to the residents. Second, it 
has passed a partial amnesty for political prisoners, 80 percent of 
whom are Sunnis, in an effort to reduce the conflict and promote peace 
among different sects. Finally, it approved a $48 billion national 
budget that allocates Government revenue, 85 percent of which is from 
oil, to the provinces, allowing more local control and less dependence 
on the central government. Altogether the recent military and political 
news out of Iraq provides further evidence that our strategies must be 
determined by events in theater, not timetables set by politicians 
6,000 miles away.

In the past year so much has changed in Iraq. Yet here on the Senate 
floor, it seems nothing has changed at all. We are still voting on 
imprudent bills for premature withdrawal when, in fact, we should be 
providing a vote of confidence in our troops. The mission of our troops 
is vital to our security. If we abandon Iraq prematurely, it will 
become a sanctuary for terrorists to launch attacks against the 
American people.

There is also a real danger that Iraq could become a satellite of 
Iran. The Iranian Government has a long record of sponsoring terrorism 
and arming the insurgents who are killing our brave soldiers in Iraq.

And what about the practical realities of such an irresponsible act 
of Congress? I am told it would take over a year to retrieve our arms, 
equipment, and technology. I ask those who are voting for this 
resolution: Would they leave our arms there for the terrorists to be 
able to use? What about our advanced technological equipment? What 
about our surveillance equipment? What is the security threat to the 
troops left behind if the reduction in strength leaves them without 
enough protection?

Those who are voting for this resolution, are they concerned about 
this enemy, this enemy that has no rules of engagement, an enemy that 
is not in the armed forces of any country, an enemy that executes 
hostages in front of television screens? Are they concerned that this 
enemy would be emboldened by an adversary that would abandon its 
commitment?

Are they concerned that they might attack harder, especially if they 
could seize our weapons to use against us or make us leave faster so we 
would leave the weapons and technology?

I ask the supporters of this resolution: What about the oil revenue? 
What if al-Qaida is able to get access to the millions that it is 
producing for Iraq? If Iraq collapses and the terrorists take hold with 
the oil revenue, how far could their heinous crimes go? How far could 
they spread?

I have heard the arguments about the cost of the war. And the cost is 
huge. What about the cost of another terrorist attack on the United 
States of


America? What about the cost in life and treasure of another terrorist 
attack on this country? Have we forgotten already the cost of 9/11, 
around 3,000 lives in America, billions to our economy, and the damages 
to clean up New York City? Are we not thinking of the consequences of 
this kind of action? This resolution may be an attempt to make a point. 
This is the United States Senate. I truly believe we should be more 
responsible. We are the leaders of our country. We should think of the 
consequences, the worst that could happen, not just the best. If we are 
able to pick up and leave, even though it would not be the honorable 
thing for the greatest Nation on the Earth to do, maybe it would be 
flawless. But we need to think through these consequences and we need 
to know what is the worst case if we are the leaders of this country.


This resolution is not the act of a thoughtful, informed group of 
leaders. I urge my colleagues to stop voting on this kind of 
resolution. I urge the majority leader to stop scheduling the votes 
that at best serve no legitimate purpose, and at worst demoralize our 
troops and embolden our enemy.

We have so much that is going for the better in Iraq. Is it as fast 
as we would like? Of course not. I would love to have our troops 
walking out right now. I met with hundreds of them this weekend. I know 
they are committed. But I also have met with the parents and the 
spouses of those who have lost their lives, who have given the ultimate 
sacrifice in Iraq and Afghanistan. They have said to me: Do not leave 
with the job undone, because then I will feel that my son or my 
daughter or my husband has lost his life or her life in vain.

We cannot do that to those who have served so honorably and we cannot 
walk away from our commitment. We are the Senate. We should be able to 
take actions that are responsible, that are thoughtful, that will not 
put our troops in harm's way, that will not leave our equipment to be 
taken over by the terrorists, that will not leave a country that could 
turn into a terrorist haven and take revenue and spread their terrorism 
and their heinous crimes to other places in the world and to our 
country.

We are here to protect our people. It is our job to act responsibly, 
and I hope we will do so by rejecting this resolution.

I yield the floor.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Casey.) The Senator from Virginia.