# None
## `3f8e6515997c567cdac1dd045b60b7de`
`Mr. HUNTER â€” 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Taking back my time, I don't think we are going to be 
appropriating any melting shirts, or authorizing any melting shirts. We 
do serious stuff. And when you have a defense bill which is over $500 
billion and it has thousands and thousands of provisions in it, I would 
say that the number of changes we make actually is fairly minimal.


If you look at the massive amount of money that is spent on defense, 
the change that we make in scoping the defense bill, which is not only 
our prerogative, it's our mandate, it doesn't say: You shall accept and 
rubber-stamp what the Pentagon puts out there. And experience has shown 
us. And, thankfully, we have followed our mandate because we have put 
in systems that have saved lives, that the Pentagon didn't think about, 
and we have put in more systems that have made us more effective at 
fighting the Nation's war that the Pentagon didn't think about.

We have got members on the committee, I would say to my friend, who 
have taken five, six, seven, eight trips to Iraq and Afghanistan. They 
see things. They write down notes. We have our professional staff with 
us. We were out there looking at the Fourth Division and we saw some of 
their trucks whose armor consisted of two layers of plywood, with 
sandbags in between. That is why we went back and on an initiative we 
put together double-hulled trucks. To my knowledge, none of those 
double-hulled trucks has yet been penetrated by any enemy shrapnel from 
a roadside bomb. We do things in response to what we think the solders 
and sailors and airmen and marines need.

So I agree with the gentleman that we should all be accountable for 
what we put in a bill, whether it's a defense bill or something else, 
and you have got to stand up. If it's a bad one, you take the heat for 
it. But just saying anything that doesn't come out of the 
administration is, by definition, illegitimate, is absolutely not 
accurate.

I can just tell you this. If you end up with an administration that 
you don't agree with, like some Republicans who didn't agree with what 
President Carter did with defense spending in the last part of his 
term, when we put in, along with some pretty discerning Democrats, an 
extra aircraft carrier, and if you want to straitjacket this body, 
where a President that you don't agree with, who you feel is cutting 
defense spending to the bone, and maybe beyond the bone, where, as a 
rule, if he or she doesn't agree or doesn't put that out as a defense 
budget, you consider it your duty to not add a single cent, then I 
think we are putting ourselves in a position where we are disserving 
the people that we represent, because our job is to put together a 
defense budget.