# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `3f9185efffe62f946fcafeb4fb792df5`
`Mr. CARDIN â€” 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I urge us to move forward and consider the 
Iraq resolution so that every Member of this body can speak on this 
issue, we can debate it, and we can cast our votes on what we believe 
the policy should be for the United States in Iraq.

I would like to take us back to October of 2002. I was in the other 
body in October 2002. I voted against the resolution that gave the 
President the right to use force in Iraq. Let's remember the basis on 
which that resolution was passed. We were told that Iraq was in 
violation of U.N. resolutions concerning weapons of mass destruction 
and we needed to have the option to use military force in order to 
enforce that resolution and get rid of weapons of mass destruction.

The United States was also concerned about the war against terror, 
and there were statements made about the war on terror. I might tell 
you, there was no evidence that Iraq was involved in the attacks on our 
country on September 11. And, yes, there was a desire by many to get 
rid of the regime of Saddam Hussein.


What has happened since then? Our American troops have been in Iraq. 
We found no weapons of mass destruction. There are serious questions as 
to the intelligence information we had and how that was relayed to all 
of us. Saddam Hussein is gone. He has been removed. The Iraqi 
Government is now in place. A constitution was adopted. A government 
was elected. The Maliki government is now responsible for the affairs 
of Iraq. Times have changed.



But the most significant change that has occurred in Iraq during the 
last year has been the increased sectarian violence--a civil war. That 
is what is taking place in Iraq today. It is clear the presence of the 
U.S. military will not end the civil war. Iraqis need to end the civil 
war through diplomacy and negotiations and the confidence of the people 
in Iraq.

Something else has changed in the last year. We had national 
elections in our country, midterm elections. The people asked for 
change. Now there is a change in the Congress, and during the first few 
months of this Congress, we have held over 40 oversight hearings on 
what is happening in Iraq. I do not recall these hearings taking place 
in the last Congress.

Those hearings have pointed out--with expert after expert; military 
expert, foreign policy expert--we are not going to end the sectarian 
violence in Iraq by increasing American troops. We cannot win it on the 
battlefield. We have to deal with it and negotiate a settlement in 
Iraq.

We have before us the Reid resolution. We also have before us the 
President's current policies in Iraq. Do we want more of the same--an 
escalation of troops, a continuation of U.S. military presence in Iraq 
in the midst of a civil war--or do we want a change in direction? The 
Reid resolution represents a change in direction. It is a change in 
direction as it relates to U.S. troop levels.

We have lost almost 3,200 American troops, 68 from my own State of 
Maryland. There is a civil war in which American troops are not adding 
to ending that civil war. We need to look at whether we want to 
increase our troops, as the President wants, or to start redeploying 
our troops so the Iraqis can stand up and defend their own country so 
we can look for a political solution to what is happening in Iraq. We 
can remove the big target on Americans. Public opinion in Iraq says it 
is OK to kill Americans. We have to remove the American presence so we 
can move forward.

The Reid resolution gives us a well-defined mission which we can 
achieve, which is in the interest of the United States, that the Iraqis 
would take responsibility for their own country, would have well-
trained security forces.

The resolution speaks to what we need to do as far as a surge in 
diplomacy, to urge more countries to get involved so the Sunnis and 
Shiites can live together and have confidence in their own government 
that represents a change, that represents a direction that is in the 
interest of the United States.

I urge us to be willing to debate this resolution and to vote on this 
resolution. That is our responsibility. It is our responsibility as 
Members of this body. It is our responsibility to our men and women who 
are serving our Nation, our Armed Forces. It is a responsibility we owe 
to our Nation. I urge my colleagues to move forward so we can go on 
record and change the direction of America's participation in Iraq so 
we can achieve the objectives that are in the interests of our Nation.

Mr. President, I yield back the floor.