# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `40128f4a502708e206a4ef88d3adddfb`
`Mr. ENZI â€” 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. ENZI. Madam President, as I begin my comments on the resolutions 
we have under consideration, I want to first make very clear my strong 
support for the members of our Armed Forces and the vital work they are 
doing around the world every day. I have the greatest admiration for 
them all for their heartfelt commitment to preserving our freedoms and 
maintaining our national security. They are all true heroes and they 
are the ones who are doing the heavy lifting and making great 
sacrifices in our country's name so that we might continue to be the 
land of the free and the home of the brave.

Over the years, I have been to Iraq and I have met with the members 
of our Armed Forces there and, later, here in the United States when 
they have returned home. These remarkable men and women exemplify the 
best qualities of our Nation. They volunteered to serve in the best 
trained force in the world and they deserve our complete and unwavering 
support. If it were possible, I would like to have each and every one 
of our troops back home with their families and friends immediately. We 
cannot, however, pull our troops out of Iraq at this point without 
facing extremely dire consequences for a long time to come. I have 
spoken at length to our troops about their mission and they understand 
their mission.

I was thinking about them, and all of the members of our military who 
are presently serving around the world as I began to prepare my 
remarks. I thought back to the days, years ago, when I was first 
elected to serve as the Mayor of Gillette, WY. I made a habit of 
carrying around a copy of the United States Constitution with me 
everywhere I went. I kept it in my coat pocket, next to my pen, and 
whenever I looked at it, it reminded me of two things--the Government I 
was a part of, and the people I was elected to serve.

Then, when I came here to the Senate, the Constitution took on an 
even greater, deeper meaning for me. I see it as my job description. 
That is why I make sure to always keep it handy so it can continue to 
serve as a reminder of the detailed portrait it contains of our Federal 
Government and how it was designed to work by our Founding Fathers. 
Today, it provides us with a


good starting point for our debate and it provides some of the answers 
to the issues before us.

The relevant parts of the our country's Constitution are quite clear. 
Congress must be consulted before any large scale military operation is 
begun. But once that has been done, the Commander in Chief of our Armed 
Forces, the President, is to direct the effort that we have approved.

The Founding Fathers had a good reason for establishing the President 
as the Commander in Chief of our Armed Forces and the one who is 
responsible for making the decisions affecting the actions of our 
Nation's military.

That does not mean that Congress does not have a play in these 
decisions. We all have an important role to play when it comes to 
matters like these. Again, in their great wisdom, the drafters of our 
Constitution knew that Congress could--and should--influence policy--
but they knew it would be impossible for us to have all the information 
available to the President to debate and assess before making a 
decision on the viability of every military operation. The process of 
determining military strategy would be a nightmare if we were to be 
expected to debate all of the intricacies of every policy and, by so 
doing, publicly reveal some of the information obtained by our 
intelligence agencies on the House and Senate floor before reaching a 
decision. Our procedure on the Senate floor is a good process for 
debating and considering legislation, but it is a process that does not 
lend itself well to producing a quick and informed military decision at 
a time of crisis.

Those thoughts were on my mind when the President put forward a new 
strategy for us to pursue in Iraq, recognizing that what we are 
currently doing is not working. General David Petraeus, our U.S. 
Commander in Iraq, testified before us about that policy. He is 
consulting with highly educated and trained members of the military, 
many from universities where criticism of U.S. efforts in Iraq has 
flourished. It is evident that the President and his advisors are 
seeking analysis and recommendations from people who recognize the fact 
that the road ahead will be complicated and difficult.

Listening to the debate, I have heard many of my colleagues sum up 
the President's new strategy as just increasing the number of American 
troops in Iraq. I do not believe it is a matter of numbers. The real 
question should be what the placement of these troops is designed to 
accomplish. There is no question that there must be a clearly defined 
mission for them on the ground. By having more forces on the ground, we 
may be able to decrease the vulnerability of our troops as they move 
from place to place. That will provide them with the backup and 
protection they need to more safely pursue their mission.

In the months to come, it is clear that there are several things the 
new policy must do if it is to be successful. First and foremost, the 
new campaign must provide the security the people of Iraq must have to 
feel safe at home. If they do not feel secure under the protection of 
the United States, coalition, and Iraqi forces, they will turn toward 
terrorist organizations that will prey on their fears and provide a 
false sense of security. America's long-term security interests and the 
possibility of world peace will be best served by an Iraq that can 
sustain, govern, and defend itself, while serving as an ally in the war 
against the terrorists.

Looking long term, I think we would all agree that the future of Iraq 
will directly affect the balance of power in the Middle East. That is 
why countries throughout the region are watching to see what action we 
will take in Iraq. An immediate withdrawal of United States and 
coalition forces will leave our allies in the region forced to prepare 
for additional conflicts.

Our mission in Iraq has not been easy, and it will not get easier in 
the days to come. After all, we are facing centuries-old difficulties 
as we work with the people of Iraq to help them overcome their 
religious and ethnic differences to form a nation that will work to 
benefit and protect all their people.

Ultimately, what the future of Iraq will be is up to the Iraqi people 
themselves. Iraq must put together a working coalition of its three 
major groups, the Kurds, Sunnis, and Shia, as well as other ethnic and 
religious minorities. They must work for national reconciliation 
through shared responsibilities as well as shared oil revenues that 
will be used to solve the problems that exist in their own backyard. 
Such a reconciliation will not only be good for Iraq, but the Middle 
East as a whole.

We have set forth benchmark requirements for the Iraqis to make. Our 
first benchmark has been met. Their parliament has approved an 
equitable split of oil revenues between the three factions. This is 
progress.

Looking back, the record is clear. Like many Members of the United 
States Senate, I supported the original decision in 2002 to take action 
against Saddam Hussein in Iraq. The vote I cast that day was not an 
easy decision. The tough ones are like that. You make the best decision 
you can, based on the information you have on hand at the time you have 
to make it. Those are the decisions that make us all lose sleep for 
years afterward. Anytime you vote to put our Nation's young men and 
women in harm's way, it stays with you long after the fighting is over 
and our troops are on their way back home.

Today, I remain concerned about the safety of the people on the 
ground: Americans, coalition allies, and the Iraqi people. And there is 
good reason for my concern. With today's rapid communication made 
possible by the Internet, cell phones, and other technologies, what we 
say here can almost instantaneously find its way around the world and 
straight to the camps of both friends and foes--and they are both 
watching. In fact, I do not think it is an exaggeration to say that the 
whole world is watching to see what we will decide to do.

That leads me to ask, what do we hope to accomplish through this 
debate? We have already approved the nomination of General Petraeus by 
a unanimous vote. Now we are considering a resolution condemning a plan 
he has not had a chance to put into action yet. What sort of message 
will we send our troops with our vote on that?

As Members of the United States Senate, we have the opportunity to 
voice our opinions to the President and our constituents. But the fact 
that we are even going through this debate at this point in time may 
give those who wish to do us harm hope and embolden them--and once 
emboldened they will pose an even greater threat to our troops.

As we continue with our consideration of these resolutions, I want to 
be clear that I do not want to cut funding for the troops. Their safety 
and their very lives depend on that funding. When you are in a war, you 
do not do that to the troops.

Looking ahead, in the months to come, Congress must continue to 
closely monitor the actions of the new Iraqi government, our military 
leaders, and our civilian leaders. We should continue to express our 
opinions, and take whatever actions are necessary to ensure our troops 
are provided the best support possible so that they can come home soon. 
We should not, however, further endanger the lives of Americans and 
Iraqis simply to make a statement and take a stand against the 
President.