# EXPRESSING SYMPATHY FOR THE PEOPLE OF POLAND
## `405e42f43ee605175804bbce4834311f`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 14 April 2010`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I also want to join Senator Reid in 
acknowledging the cosponsors of this resolution, and I am sure this 
list will grow as our colleagues come forward and ask to be added, but 
I thank Senator Johanns for joining me in this effort. I give special 
thanks to Senator Mikulski. We know of her pride in her Polish heritage 
and we know of her deep respect for the people of Poland and our shared 
grief over the loss to that great nation. Senators Kerry, Voinovich, 
Brown of Ohio, Cardin, and others have also joined me in considering 
this resolution.

I come to the floor of the Senate, Mr. President, with a heavy heart. 
I express my sympathy to the people of Poland and to Ambassador 
Kupiecki who is here representing them. I shared a moment with him 
earlier this morning and mentioned that when I heard the news of this 
tragic loss, my thoughts went back immediately to 47 years ago when we 
lost our President, John Kennedy, and what it meant to our Nation and 
how devastating it was. This city ground to a halt on that day, and the 
bells began to peal in the church towers all across Washington every 
hour on the hour as our Nation reflected on its great loss. It was a 
time of great sadness, as it should have been in our history, and as I 
am sure it is now in Poland, as people reflect on the morning of 
Saturday, April 10, when a plane carrying Polish President Lech 
Kaczynski, his wife Maria, and 94 other high-ranking government, 
military and civilian leaders crashed while traveling to a memorial 
service in Russia that was to recognize and memorialize the dreadful 
Katyn massacre.

The tragic accident is a devastating loss to the Nation of Poland and 
to their friends around the world. This photo I brought to the floor 
shows literally thousands of Poles who gathered in Warsaw on Saturday 
evening to remember those who died. They were outside St. John's 
Cathedral in Warsaw grieving for the loss of their President and so 
many leaders of their nation.

The pain of this sad moment is felt around the world but especially 
in the city of Chicago, which I am honored to represent. It is home to 
more Polish American families than anywhere else in the United States. 
And what a proud heritage they bring to our city, our State, and our 
Nation; what a contribution they have made. The grief they feel today 
is a grief we share.

Yesterday, as I mentioned, my fellow Senators joined me in offering 
this resolution. The United States and Poland share a strong bond of 
history, friendship, and international cooperation. Polish Americans 
have become leaders in all walks of life. In the Senate, Senator 
Mikulski and others of Polish heritage have shown that their 
contribution to America continues to this day. We joined with Poland in 
our Revolutionary War, and we are so grateful for those Poles who, like 
Casimir Pulaski and others, stepped forward and joined us in our effort 
to gain independence. When the time came many decades later, and Poland 
was seeking its own independence after the Solidarity movement, the 
United States stood by their side.

We know President Kaczynski was part of that effort, and we know he 
was in fact interred in prison because he fought for democracy in 
Poland. He was respected throughout his country for the role he played 
and the leadership he brought to this modern, free, democratic Poland 
today. We have stood by Poland as the Solidarity movement grew into a 
strong, vibrant democracy. We have supported Poland's membership in 
NATO, so that we are joint allies in an effort to defend the values we 
share and in the European Union where they have become a modern economy 
and a major leader in Europe. Poland also stood by the United States as 
well in our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

As Poles struggle to come to terms with this week's tragedy, the 
United States will stand with them and will support their government as 
it works to overcome the loss of so many of its great leaders.

President and Mrs. Kaczynski and their delegation were on a mission 
to try, so many years later, to close a deep wound to the Polish people 
of the Katyn massacre of World War II, where more than 20,000 Poles 
were executed by Soviet secret police and buried in


mass graves in that forest. As the Ambassador said to me this morning, 
that Katyn Forest is a holy and a cursed place because now this tragedy 
is added onto the memory of the loss that took place so many years ago.

Russia and Poland have begun to deal with this tragedy, and that is a 
positive thing. Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin recently joined 
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk at a ceremony marking that tragedy. 
Prime Minister Putin--the first Russian leader to attend that memorial 
service--said:




 We bow our heads to those who bravely met death here.


This was the beginning of the closure of a critical chapter in the 
history of those two nations. This is the beginning of healing, which 
is long overdue. Sadly, the Katyn tragedy has now been compounded by 
the loss of so many of Poland's leaders who were destined to head to 
this location in memory of those who had fallen.

Aboard the plane were some of Poland's highest military and civilian 
leaders--the Deputy Foreign Minister, the Chiefs of the Army and Navy, 
the president of the national bank, and dozens of Members of 
Parliament. Two prominent civilian leaders aboard the plane were 
Wojciech Seweryn and Anna Walentynowicz.

Seweryn was an artist from Chicago and an influential member of 
Chicago's Polish community. Mr. Seweryn's father died at Katyn, and it 
soon became his life's passion to honor his father's memory with 
beautiful memorials that he had built in the United States and in the 
location of the Katyn Forest. What a bitter irony that he would lose 
his life journeying to this memorial occasion. Throughout his life he 
brought awareness to the Katyn tragedy. He led an effort in the Chicago 
area to construct a memorial in remembrance of the Katyn massacre at 
St. Adalbert Cemetery, which Poland's President Kaczynski was planning 
to visit in just a few weeks.

Anna Walentynowicz was a famous civilian leader and a former dock 
worker whose firing in 1980 sparked the Solidarity strike that 
ultimately overthrew the Polish Communist government. Due in part to 
her inspiration, Poland has emerged as a thriving and prosperous free 
market democracy since the end of the Cold War.

Poland shares a state partnership program with my home State's 
National Guard, a partnership that has been in place since shortly 
after the fall of the Berlin Wall. It is one of the many partnerships 
our Illinois National Guard has with former Warsaw Pact member nations. 
Since 1993, hundreds of Illinois National Guard members have 
participated in exchanges with Polish forces in cooperative efforts 
supporting the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and in other military 
training and exchanges.

Among those killed in last week's tragedy are officers who were well 
known to the Illinois National Guard. Several troops in the Illinois 
Guard have served under the officers who were on President Kaczynski's 
aircraft. These fine soldiers are in the thoughts of all the people of 
Illinois and the 13,000 men and women of the Illinois National Guard 
today.

On Saturday I visited the Polish Consulate in Chicago to pay my 
respects and leave my regards in the condolence book. People were 
starting to flock to this site, people in Chicago, driving with Polish 
flags proudly displayed over their vehicles, to come to this consulate 
to express their own sorrow for this loss, to join in the long line 
signing the condolence book, and to leave flowers at the flagpole 
bearing the Polish flag right outside of the consulate.

I have such admiration for the people of Poland who have endured so 
many trials and struggles. What has brought them through time and again 
is faith and family, and those two enduring qualities will help them as 
they try to cope with this massive crisis that is facing their country.

As the ambassador said to me this morning, there is no doubt that 
Poland will emerge strong; that this government is going to be stable; 
that it is going to move forward. He can count as well that we will be 
at his side and the side of the people of Poland as they rebuild their 
government and their nation from this tragedy.

I urge my colleagues to join me in cosponsoring of this measure and 
support passage of the resolution which we just considered on the floor 
of the Senate.

I yield the floor.