# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `40d13b20f8101410d004d8c5d0a4189a`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE â€” 14 July 2009`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of H.R. 3081, 2010 
State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill. This legislation 
provides $48.843 billion for the Department of State, the U.S. Agency 
for International Development, and related agencies to help the U.S. 
meet its foreign policy goals of economic stability and poverty 
reduction, advance the global fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic and 
other health crises.

This bill helps protect our national security through effective 
diplomacy and international development projects. It provides needed 
assistance to Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq and it promotes security, 
economic development, health, and education around the world. The bill 
also provides vital resources to rebuild the capacity of the State 
Department and USAID. It reverses a decade of reliance on supplemental 
appropriations and provides an honest accounting of the true cost of 
critical national security initiatives.

To rebuild our diplomatic and development capacity, the bill provides 
funding for approximately 1,000 new positions at the Department of 
State and approximately 300 new employees at USAID as part of the 
Development Leadership Initiative, creating jobs that hardworking 
Americans can fill. This bill also provides a total of $7.684 billion 
for global health programs, including $5.7 billion in total funding for 
global HIV/AIDS prevention and health initiatives. Diseases like HIV/
AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria continue to threaten the lives of 
millions of people as well as stability in the developing world, and 
this bill will advance our security interests while also fulfilling our 
moral obligation to fight this scourge.

Mr. Chair, H.R. 3081 enhances our ability to keep our Nation secure 
and our citizens safe. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting 
this legislation.
