# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `415a4736a09536c5f02d15b8e51476ac`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, we meet on what is the fourth day of the 
fifth year of the war in Iraq. It is a war that has gone on longer than 
the war in Korea. America has been fighting longer in Iraq than we did 
during World War II--even though that was an international conflict 
fought on two fronts against some of the most dangerous threats to our 
national security ever known.

Too many Members of this Congress and of this Administration have for 
years seen what they wanted to see in Iraq, and believed what they 
wanted to believe. But their conceptions couldn't matter less to the 
men and women of that nation, or to the men and women of the American 
military who are fighting there.

Civilians and soldiers don't live in the world as politicians say it 
is. They live in the world as it really is. And they live, every day, 
with the consequences of the decisions made here in this chamber.

During the first 4 years of the Iraq war, they had to live with an 
Administration and a Congress that either could not, or would not, see 
this conflict for what it really was: a war that was not being won, 
that was being fought by soldiers who often did not have the equipment 
they needed or the care they were owed, that was not improving the 
security of the Iraqi people, that was depleting our military and, as a 
result, endangering the long-term security of this nation, and that was 
based on a flawed strategy that desperately needed to be changed.

They lived with the former Secretary of Defense dismissing persistent 
equipment shortages by telling us that our nation had gone to war with 
the Army it had. By the time Mr. Rumsfeld had uttered those words, on 
December 9th, 2004, 1,288 U.S. soldiers had been killed.

They lived with predictions that the insurgency in Iraq was in its 
last throes, a statement made 6 months later. Four hundred thirty-seven 
more soldiers had lost their lives in those months.

And now, they live with more calls for patience from the 
Administration and its allies, and more denunciations of anyone who 
would seek a different course in Iraq.

As of today, more than 3,200 soldiers have died in this war. The 
civilian death toll is astonishing, with estimates now running as high 
as 1 million Iraqi men, women, and children killed as a direct or 
indirect result of the conflict and the chaos it has unleashed. 
Millions more have been dislocated, driven out of their homes and into 
refugee camps.

It is long past time for this institution to join with our soldiers 
and with the people of Iraq in seeing this war for what it really is.

The legislation before us today represents the first real chance 
Democrats have had since 2003 to change the course of the war in Iraq. 
And we intend to do it.

We will do it not because we are conceding anything to those who 
would do our Nation harm, not because we lack the will to continue the 
fight, and not because, as some would have you believe, we are giving 
up.

Instead, we are going to change the course of this war because the 
future of the people of Iraq hinges on it, because a basic level of 
respect for our soldiers demands it, and because the long-term security 
of our Nation depends on it.



Mr. Speaker, the simple reality is that the situation in Iraq is 
stagnant at best, and deteriorating at worst. Politically, economic and 
military goals are not being met there. Faced with such truths, why 
should this House pass yet another blank check for the war, as past 
Congresses have done?

Instead, this bill is based on a simple and logical idea: it makes 
America's continued involvement in Iraq conditional on the situation 
there improving.

America's soldiers will no longer be asked to fight in an open-ended 
war whose goal line keeps moving. This legislation requires Iraqi 
leaders to make the political compromises necessary to produce a 
working government that will function for all of Iraq--or else risk 
losing America's military support. And it will require security 
benchmarks to be met if American soldiers are to continue sacrificing 
their own safety for that goal.

But what is more, this bill represents the first step Congress has 
ever taken towards ending the war in Iraq.

A clear majority of the American people want this body to take 
decisive steps toward that end. A clear majority of our global allies 
want the same thing. A significant number of generals and military 
officials think that ending this conflict must be achieved sooner 
rather than later.

This bill is a response to their words, and to their counsel. It will 
not end the war immediately, nor will it end it recklessly.

Instead, it rejects the idea of a war in Iraq without end.

To continue funding this conflict without requiring any tangible 
progress to be made in Iraq makes no sense. It would achieve neither 
peace in that nation, nor security here.

But what it would achieve, Mr. Speaker, is the continued depletion 
and degradation of our military beyond all reason. It would continue to 
render our armed forces unable to fight in other parts of the world 
against other threats. And it would continue to force suffering 
soldiers to return to the battlefield time and again, despite physical 
and mental injuries.

We know the statistics: in addition to the 3,223 soldiers that have 
died, tens of thousands more have been injured, some permanently. And 
there are more than 32,000 Iraq veterans--32,000--who who every day 
suffer silently from the scourge of mental health problems. More than 
13,000 of those men and women have been diagnosed with post-traumatic 
stress disorder, PTSD.


And yet, they are afforded no relief. The President's escalation of 
this conflict is forcing more soldiers back into combat sooner, with 
less rest, with less training, and with less time to heal. There are 
even reports of men and women being sent back to Iraq who are too 
injured to wear body armor.

Mr. Speaker, it is important not to view these realities in the 
abstract. I want to share with you a story I recently heard, the story 
of one young lieutenant currently awaiting his second deployment to 
Iraq.

Though he trained as an engineer, his first tour of duty saw him 
bravely patrolling dangerous streets north of Baghdad. He returned last 
December, and was initially expecting a year on base during which to 
rest and train a new platoon.

Instead, he will be heading back months sooner. He says that the 
soldiers under his command are not going to get the time they need to 
train properly for their mission. The vehicles and equipment they now 
use to train for war are failing and often break They are physically 
weary, with many still suffering from the lingering effects of leg and 
back injuries. Others are battling more elusive damage, and are in 
counseling for PTSD. He even told me that the vast majority of the once 
married soldiers in his unit are now or will soon be divorced. Their 
lives outside of the war are coming apart.

And yet, if you ask him, he will never complain about these 
difficulties. They are all part of the life of the soldier, he says, a 
few of the many challenges he and his men will confront every day they 
are deployed. When those in the military are given a mission, he told 
me, they find a way to complete it. That creed is the foundation of the 
strength of our Armed Forces.

It is the personification of the word sacrifice, Mr. Speaker. This 
young soldier and those under his charge are going back to Iraq again, 
even though they are wounded, and tired, and lacking in training and 
equipment. They miss their families. They miss their lives back home. 
But they are going all the same--going simply because this body has 
given the President the right to send them into battle.

But what this soldier did tell me is that our Armed Forces cannot go 
on like this. He said that if the foundation of our military's 
strength--its refusal to admit defeat--is misused, then we will end up 
destroying our system of national defense.

We hear the reports of the 82nd Airborne, for decades able to respond 
anywhere in the world within 72 hours, now struggling to respond to 
anything besides deployment orders sending its soldiers to Iraq.

We see men and women in uniform being sent back for tour after tour 
after tour, our services desperately trying to find a way to meet new 
troop requirements.

Mr. Speaker, this war represents a dramatic misuse of our military. 
In the name of our national security, it is undermining the only true 
guarantor of national security that we have: our Armed Forces. And for 
4 years, this Congress let it happen.

But not any more. Today, the House will finally recognize that our 
military is at the breaking point--not because of any inherent 
weakness, but because it is being asked to complete a mission no army 
could succeed at.

And so, that mission must change.

The new strategy this bill sets forth has nothing to do with 
surrender, Mr. Speaker. Instead, it has everything to do with doing 
what must be done to work toward a secure Iraq. And it has everything 
to do with refusing to allow those who would do us harm fool us into 
defeating ourselves--in the process, attaining a victory that they will 
never be able to achieve on their own.

Let me say as well that this funding bill also respects our soldiers 
enough to put their needs at the forefront of our national priorities, 
instead of leaving them behind. From now on, if they are asked to go 
into battle without being fully armored, fully rested, and fully 
trained, then the President himself will have to stand before this 
country and explain why it is necessary to do so.

This bill will also provide desperately needed funds for veterans' 
health care. Our country is seeing more wounded soldiers returning from 
abroad than at any point in 40 years, and yet for years, our health 
care system has failed thousands of them. It is unconscionable, and it 
is long past time that it was changed.

Finally, this bill both increases funding for the ongoing conflict in 
Afghanistan and for a variety of other critically important national 
security objectives.

Taken together, it represents the beginning of what will be a 
responsible and ethical shift in our national security priorities away 
from a mistaken conflict in Iraq and back toward other concerns--the 
continued rise of the Taliban in Afghanistan, for example, and the 
needs of wounded soldiers at home.

By changing a flawed strategy that has weakened our military for 
years without getting us any closer to a stable Iraq, this legislation 
represents our country's best chance to shake both of our nations free 
from the shackles of a stalemate benefiting neither.

It is an important and historic bill, one that the people of Iraq 
deserve, that the American people deserve, and that our troops most 
certainly deserve. I am proud to support it, and I urge all of my 
colleagues to do the same.