# None
## `425e81f9fc7c958d403b5e6937660556`
`Mr. MANZULLO â€” 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. MANZULLO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise in support of House Resolution 1194, which reaffirms America's 
support for the Government of Lebanon and condemns the violent Islamic 
group Hezbollah and its state sponsors, Iran and Syria, for undermining 
the sovereignty and independence of Lebanon.

For over two decades, Hezbollah and its state sponsors have done 
everything in their power to destroy any hope for a free and democratic 
Lebanon. In response, some have tried to compromise with Hezbollah to 
incorporate it into the Lebanese electoral system, to pretend that it 
is a group of Lebanese freedom fighters instead of a wholly-controlled 
subsidiary of Iran and Syria, to permit it to arm and re-arm in 
violation of U.N. Security Council resolutions, and to excuse its 
relentless attacks and incitement against America and Israel.

Mr. Speaker, America and other responsible nations must stop 
Hezbollah's current attempt to rule by the gun. We must support efforts 
in the U.N. Security Council and elsewhere to ensure that Hezbollah is 
disarmed and that Iran and Syria are barred from rearming that group. 
Moreover, we must hold Iran and Syria accountable for the continuing 
efforts to spread violence and to undermine our allies in the Middle 
East, including Lebanon, Iraq, and Israel.

Mr. Speaker, Iran and Syria continue to start fires throughout the 
region only to disingenuously step forward and offer to put them out 
for an unconscionable price. We must cease falling prey to their 
deception, and we must stop their deadly behavior, which undermines the 
security of Lebanon and the entire world.

I thank my good friend and colleague from California, Chairman Berman 
of the Foreign Affairs Committee, for introducing this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I yield as much time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. LaHood), an esteemed member of the Committee on 
Appropriations.

(Mr. LaHOOD asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)