# HONORING 139TH AIRLIFT WING
## `4325110b3b1d5fe789ecad4d25b20241`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas â€” 5 March 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 
699--honoring and recognizing the significant service and contribution 
of the men and women of the 139th Airlift Wing, Air National Guard. I 
would like to pay tribute to their historic past and mission-essential 
present.

Citizen-soldiers have played a central role in America's defense 
since the first English colonists settled in North America during the 
early 17th century. Subsequently, throughout most of our history, the 
American people have relied upon the militia and National Guard as well 
as volunteers to provide the vast bulk of their militia manpower in 
times of war.

These citizen-soldiers have also aided their states in coping with 
natural disasters and civil unrest. The dual mission--both state and 
federal--has served as a source of great pride among guardsmen for 
generations and has helped maintain the highest retention statistics 
among reserve components. This close relationship between the Guard and 
the states has also helped knit the fabric of the United States Armed 
Forces as one of the most trusted institutions in the federal 
government. The Air National Guard proudly represents the heritage of 
the citizen airman.

On 18 September 1947, the Air National Guard was born as an 
independent reserve component of the Air Force. It retained experienced 
aviators, maintainers and support personnel from World War II, allowing 
for a legitimate and ready national defense capability. These sons and 
daughters of America were prepared to defend their country on the front 
lines and the home front.

The 139th Airlift Wing, a military organization well worthy of 
recognition and praise, has a long and glorious history. Originally 
named the 139th Air Transport Group, it was a derivative of the 180th 
Bombardment Squadron, one of the first federally recognized Air 
National Guard units in the nation, and was allotted to the state of 
Missouri at Rosecrans Air National Guard Base, Saint Joseph, Missouri 
as a part of the Military Air Transport Service.

It was redesignated as the 139th Military Airlift Group on 1 January 
1966 when the Military Air Transport Service was deactivated and 
superseded by the Military Airlift Command. It was redesignated again 
as the 139th Air Refueling Group on 6 September 1969 within the 
Tactical Air Command; it was a major contributor during the Vietnam 
war.


The 139th as an organization continued to lead the way in defending 
America as it underwent a series of redesignations, inactivations and 
mission consolidations until its final designation as the 139th Airlift 
Wing on 1 October 1995 assigned to the Air Combat Command. Two years 
later the airlift mission with all C-130 units was changed from Air 
Combat Command to Air Mobility Command.

The 139th Airlift Wing has a long and outstanding record of getting 
airmen, soldiers and marines, equipment and supplies to and from the 
fight. This was clearly demonstrated with the massive troop deployment 
during Operation Desert Storm which was key in delivering a swift and 
virtually uncontested victory.

This unit served as the hub while America supported humanitarian 
operations in Bosnia, Sarajevo, Africa, and Haiti. It delivered tens of 
thousands of tons of relief support and medical and support personnel.

The 139th Airlift Wing deployed in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom in Afghanistan with 215 missions and provided 918 sorties. 
Additionally, the wing is the host of the world renowned Advanced 
Airlift Tactics Training Center (AATTC). This center, a Total Force 
Integration Initiative, is a combination of Air National Guard, Air 
Force Reserve, and Regular Air Force members, and supports NATO air 
forces training operations.

The civilian airmen of the 139th Airlift Wing played a considerable 
role in supporting natural disasters and emergencies on the home front 
as well. They provided disaster relief in response to Hurricane Katrina 
and the devastating ice storm that struck Northwest Missouri.

The 139th Air Wing is currently supporting Operation Coronet Oak in 
Puerto Rico and was vital in the rapid relief to Haiti in support of 
Operation Unified Response. They provided 11 sorties and delivered 
23,000 pounds of cargo to mitigate suffering in the middle of the 
devastated country.

Once again I am very proud of our Armed Services, especially the men 
and women that make up the 139th Airlift Wing. We pay tribute to our 
civilian airmen force for their courage, sacrifice and patriotism. We 
all owe you a debt of gratitude and our undying support.
