# None
## `4331f9e43a5f31db6543c4b57118abac`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA â€” 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Madam Speaker, I have had a sleepless night in 
pondering and wondering how this day's debate is going to turn out, and 
it is most unfortunate that this issue has become divisive among our 
colleagues this day.

Much has been said about America's insular territories and the 
District of Columbia. In fact, this is probably the first time in years 
that we have ever given this much attention to the privileges and 
rights of the five congressional Delegates, the privileges and rights 
of those of us who represent some 5 million fellow Americans that are 
part and parcel of this great Nation.

Some have said that the insular areas don't pay Federal income taxes, 
and therefore why are we allowing our congressional Delegates to vote 
in the Committee of the Whole. In the first place, it is 
constitutional; we have been through that test already 13 years ago.

The question of taxation without representation also comes to mind. 
And I submit to my friends on the other side of the aisle, it seems 
that at some period, at least in my humble opinion, at some period of 
time, if the Congress ever works its will to have the insular areas to 
pay Federal income taxes, that should we not also be allowed the right 
to vote?

How ironic that here under the shadow of our Nation's Capitol some 
600,000 U.S. citizens pay Federal income taxes. And my distinguished 
colleague representing the District of Columbia for how many years has 
pled this case, no representation without taxation, but she pays taxes. 
So how ironic is it that we are talking about representation and 
taxation, and yet right under the shadows of our Nation's Capitol 
600,000 U.S. citizens are denied their due representation by my 
distinguished friend and colleague from the District of Columbia in the 
process. Where is the equity and fairness in the process, Madam 
Speaker?

Much has been said about the population as a factor in this debate. 
And it seems that my friends on the other side have, almost to the 
point of making a mockery of the fact that I happen to have 70,000 
residents of my district that I represent, I make no apologies for the 
fact that I represent some 70,000 residents of the United States 
territory of American Samoa. I make no apologies for the fact that nine 
of my soldiers have died fighting for our country's interest in that 
terrible conflict in Iraq, and about 40 or more wounded. I daresay, I 
wonder if any of my colleagues have a constituency of 70,000 whose 
soldiers, eight of them I have had to personally escort their remains 
to my district, which is about only a 16-hour flight from here.



I make no apologies for the fact that I am here because this body 
passed a law some 26 years ago to allow my little territory 
representation. So if my colleagues on the other side want to introduce 
a bill to get rid of Delegate representation in this body, then do so. 
But don't come here and make these, almost an embarrassment, to suggest 
that my little constituency is less important to the fact that there 
are 36 million Californians living in California. Is it any different 
than the 500,000 living in Wyoming, another half million living in 
Vermont, or other States of our great Nation? So let's not use 
population as a factor to suggest that because I only have 70,000 
residents and some 130,000 living throughout the United States, that 
because of that reason we should not be here.

I submit, Madam Speaker, I am saddened that this has gotten to the 
point where we are caught in the crossfire, and here the congressional 
Delegates are caught in between the political movements that are going 
on.

I respectfully request and ask my colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle to pass this proposed resolution.

Madam Speaker. I rise today in support of H. Res. 78, amending the 
Rules of the House of Representatives to permit Delegates and the 
Resident Commissioner to the Congress to cast votes in the Committee of 
the Whole House on the state of the Union. I thank my good friend and 
colleague the gentleman from Maryland--the distinguished Majority 
Leader for his initiative and leadership by introducing this resolution 
now before us for consideration.

This is not the first time this proposed rule has been debated and 
adopted. In 1993, the 103rd Congress amended the House Rules in the 
exact manner we are discussing today. From 1993 to 1995, the House of 
Representatives voted to allow the Congressional delegates of the 
different territories to vote in the Committee of the Whole, with the 
caveat that if the outcome of the vote was within the margin of the 
number of Delegates voting, the Committee would rise and the House 
would revote the question without the participation of the Delegates. 
In 1995, the new Republican majority eliminated these provisions from 
the House Rules and our Congressional delegates no longer voted in the 
Committee of the Whole.

In the lawsuit filed by our Republican colleagues challenging these 
Rules in 1993, the federal district court determined that the Rules 
changes were constitutional. As the district court held, the 
determining factor that rendered these proposed rules constitutional 
was the revote provision that was included. In the view of the court, 
this provision essentially made the vote meaningless as an exercise of 
legislative power--a power that is reserved by the Constitution to the 
Representatives of the States. This judgment was later affirmed by the 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit.

Given that this amendment to the House Rules was adjudged to be 
constitutional only because it provided what was characterized as a 
meaningless vote, why are we discussing this legislation? I submit that 
we are here because although the privilege extended by this change in 
the Rules is meaningless as an exercise of legislative power, it is 
vitally important because it provides a forum for our representatives 
from Puerto Rico, DC, American Samoa, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands 
to participate in the democratic process.

As the Majority Leader explained on the floor of the House last 
Friday when asked the purpose of this legislation, and he said and I 
quote, ''the purpose is to honor democracy.'' Each of us has been 
elected by our home districts to represent their interests in the U.S. 
House of Representatives. Because we do not represent states we do not 
vote on legislation, but we do advocate on behalf of our constituencies 
nonetheless. The Rules changes contemplated here today represent a 
symbolic extension of our ability as Congressional delegates to 
advocate, to educate, and to inform


our colleagues in the House of Representatives as they vote on 
legislation that impacts the lives of some 5 million of our fellow 
Americans who live in the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

If our goal here in Congress is to produce the best possible 
legislation, would it not benefit us to consider and debate in the 
Committee of the Whole the potential impact of legislation on all 
Americans, including those 5 million Americans residing in the 
territories? For example, given the strategic importance of Guam in the 
Pacific and the billions of dollars the United States spends on our 
military presence in Guam, wouldn't legislation pertaining to Guam 
benefit from the perspective of Guam's representative? Also, given that 
the Resident Commissioner represents nearly 4 million Americans, 
shouldn't his perspective on initiatives that impact the people of 
Puerto Rico at least be considered as Congress deliberates on such 
issues?

Another obvious benefit of this legislation would be that the votes 
taken in the Committee of the Whole would establish a voting record for 
our constituents to inform them of our positions on issues that affect 
the lives of all of our people. While we make every effort to ensure 
that those we represent here in Congress are familiar with our position 
on current issues, a recorded vote would provide evidence of our 
commitment to their issues of concern.

Recently, concerns have been expressed that, in my opinion, only 
distract from the fundamental issue of honoring democracy by agreeing 
to these Rules changes. First, this is not an issue of party 
affiliation. We are here from both parties. Second, this is not an 
issue of patriotism. We are all Americans--just as in your districts, 
our soldiers from the territories sacrifice their lives and limbs to 
protect our freedoms. Third, this is not an issue of population size. 
Our populations range from 70,000 to over 3.4 million. We are each here 
to represent the interest of our respective areas--territories, 
district, and commonwealth.

The Rules changes being considered to allow Delegates and the 
Resident Commissioner are important not because they would provide the 
territorial representatives a symbolic vote, but because they would 
enhance our opportunities to participate in the democratic process.

These changes have been judicially affirmed as clearly 
constitutional. The passage of these rules gives Congress the potential 
to enhance legislation produced in the House. H. Res. 78 would allow us 
as Delegates and Resident Commissioner to better represent our 
constituents by providing a voting record through which they could 
evaluate our positions on national legislation.

I strongly support this legislation and I urge my colleagues to 
support H. Res. 78, and allow the Delegates and the Resident 
Commissioner a vote in the Committee of the Whole on the State of the 
Union.