# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `4345f37fc745d6cc36d214276b4682b1`
`Mr. SMITH â€” 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH. Mr. President, I rise today as the lead Republican on the 
Levin-Reed amendment. I am proud to cosponsor this amendment because it 
calls for what I have been stating all year. It sets up a timetable--a 
timetable we all know is inevitable--to draw down our troops. Last week 
General Petraeus's testimony highlighted what I consider to be the 
remaining primary function of American troops in Iraq: to defeat al-
Qaida, our mortal enemy. The organization which attacked us on 9/11 is 
being hounded from its refuge in Anbar, fleeing from a lethal mix of 
American forces and their own destructive ideology. American troops 
should by all means continue this assault on al-Qaida. But Anbar 
Province is not all of Iraq. In past years supporters of the war have 
pointed to areas other than Anbar, such as the Shia and Kurdish 
provinces, to show that things are not going as badly as they were in 
Fallujah and Ramadi. Today they point to Anbar to show that things are 
not going as badly as the violence in Baghdad.

I have visited Iraq numerous times; and wherever I am with our 
troops, I am inspired by them. I have also become increasingly 
conscious of the fact that I am in the eye of the hurricane. Relative 
peace wherever our troops are, but outside of us are swirling the winds 
of hatred and violence such of which the American people can scarcely 
imagine.

This amendment explicitly defines the role of the U.S. military in 
Iraq as threefold. An appropriate amount of troops will remain to 
protect our diplomats, our military installations, and our 
infrastructure. We will continue to train, equip, and provide 
logistical and intelligence support to Iraqi security forces, sharing 
intelligence with them. Thirdly, and most importantly, we will be there 
to turn over every rock, every crevice, and seek out every al-Qaida 
killer who wishes to harm Americans.

As I have spoken out pleading for a new course in Iraq, there has 
been a great cacophony of noise about how to go forward. Some of my 
colleagues have wanted to cut off funding. In fact, we voted that plan 
down resoundingly. Such a course, in my view, would be more than 
dishonorable; it would be dangerous. Some, on the other hand, say: 
Let's stay the course. I find that troubling as well. What ''stay the 
course'' means is, we will continue to spend $12 billion a month. We 
will lose roughly three American soldiers a day, some of them 
Oregonians. In addition, there will be countless traumatized, wounded, 
and maimed for life, for which I cannot find a number.


Underpinning the current course and the argument of many of my 
colleagues is the hope, the predicate, that at the end of the road 
there will be an Iraqi Government that will govern effectively and 
democratically. I believe President Bush's formulation that we will 
stand down when they can stand up has it backwards. I have come to the 
reluctant conclusion that based on my numerous trips to Iraq, they will


not stand up politically until we begin standing down militarily. Like 
many of my colleagues, I have been to Iraq repeatedly. To be with the 
troops, again, is to be inspired, to be humbled in their presence 
because of the remarkable work they are doing and the cause for which 
they are fighting. As inspiring as that is, it is equally depressing to 
meet with Iraqi political leaders, democratically elected, who we think 
ought to be focused on reconciliation. What I have found is they are 
focused on revenge.

In Iraq there is ancient sectarian strife which has produced a low-
grade civil war, a war which is not ours to win and not one we can win. 
It is theirs to win. We won the first war--Saddam was overthrown. 
Iraqis must now win the peace. Civil wars end in one of two ways: One 
side wins and the other loses, or they fight it out until they figure 
it out. My belief is that we delay the day for them figuring it out 
with our current posture.

I would love to be proven wrong. I pray President Bush is right. But 
I believe it is our obligation to have this debate to help change the 
course in the policy of the United States Government, and more 
importantly, to help change also the course in the policy of the Iraqi 
Government. I intend to use all my leverage as a Senator to change that 
course in Iraq, to get their Government to govern.

My fear is that what our presence and current posture are doing is 
simply keeping their civil war at a low-grade level, a no-win situation 
for American troops in Iraq. There is no good option for how we come 
home, but it does seem to me this amendment best expresses my own 
conclusions. That is why I cosponsored the amendment, to recognize al-
Qaida as our mortal foe. We must take them on wherever we can, even now 
in Iraq, but ultimately we have to get capable and effective Iraqi 
political leaders, too, to do the most basic kinds of governing: 
debaathification, setting up of local elections, allowing the processes 
of democracy to work, establishing a rule of law that gives people 
confidence, spending their oil revenue money for the restructuring and 
the rebuilding of their own country. We cannot want functioning 
democracy for Iraqis more than they want it for themselves. What they 
seem bent on now is ethnic cleansing of their neighborhoods and 
religious division. Ultimately, those are their decisions, not ours. As 
long as we say--we will take the bullet, we will take it first--they 
will let us.

The Reed-Levin amendment provides a different way forward with a 
responsible division of labor. Let the Iraqi forces we have trained and 
equipped handle their security in Baghdad and in other communities. Let 
us help them and ourselves by taking on al-Qaida as we find it in Iraq.

This should not be a Republican-Democratic debate. I do not want to 
sling mud around this Chamber and point fingers at which parties and 
which voters and which Government branch got us where we are. That 
should not be the focus of our discussion today. But for the sake of 
the American people, we should be discussing the way forward, a way 
that includes a United States victory over al-Qaida. Therefore, I rise 
as a Republican from Oregon to support the amendment. I believe this 
legislation strikes the right balance between the same old stay the 
course policy and a panicked flight to the exit.

Do we have moral and strategic interests in Iraq? Of course, we do. 
Will we have those interests in the future? Of course, we will. Should 
we ignore those interests? Of course not. This language addresses those 
concerns, the language of the Reed-Levin amendment. I believe this 
legislation is the best, most effective, most responsible way forward.

I urge the amendment's adoption and yield the floor.