# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `44af491b03e40f7ab477c4f81fa12053`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 7 November 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I am very proud that this afternoon we 
are considering a very important bill that will fund not only the 
important investments in health, education, and the workforce but also 
historic increases in spending for our veterans and for their families.

Chairman Harkin and Ranking Member Specter have put together a great 
Labor-HHS bill. I am very proud to support it. But this afternoon I 
want to take a little bit of time to speak directly to the importance 
of the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs portion of this package, 
because today it is in grave danger of being blocked by bipartisan 
gamesmanship.

Our servicemembers in Iraq and Afghanistan and from so many conflicts 
before have done absolutely everything we have asked of them. They have 
answered the President's call to war with the honor and sense of duty 
we have come to expect from our Nation's bravest men and women. They 
have performed under enormous pressure in the middle of a civil war. 
They have left loved ones behind who count on them. They continue to 
put their own lives on the line every single day.

Now, unfortunately here at home, this administration has not been 
committed to care for them when they come home. From poor conditions at 
VA facilities around the country to a lack of PTSD counselors, to a 
benefits claims backlog that keeps our veterans waiting for months and 
sometimes amazingly even years, this administration has failed to 
account for our Nation's veterans as a part of the cost of this war. It 
is unacceptable that servicemembers who return from fighting overseas 
are being forced to fight their own Government for the care and the 
services we have promised them.

Democrats today on this floor are working to reverse the Bush 
administration's failure to care for those heroes. We have produced a 
funding bill for our veterans that includes $3.6 billion more than the 
President asked. After years of Bush Republicans cutting corners on our 
veterans, we have, with this bill, offered an honest assessment of what 
these men and women need.

This bill takes into account the extra strains that have been put on 
our VA system from our simultaneous wars and the new battlefield 
realities that are present today. It includes nearly all of the 
''independent budget,'' a recommendation that has been compiled by our 
veteran service organizations. It makes investments that will improve 
health care and expand mental health services and allow construction 
for vitally needed new facilities.

It is going to mean more qualified health care workers, better 
prosthetics, and more accessible veterans facilities. It is going to 
ensure our veterans get their earned benefits, see improved conditions 
at VA facilities, and get better treatment for PTSD, traumatic brain 
injury, and catastrophic injury.

Most of all, though, this bill means that after years of neglect, our 
Government, the United States of America, will again honor the 
sacrifice of our veterans with the care they deserve.



We are also making sure our troops are ready and that they receive 
the training they need. That is why I was so pleased about the military 
construction investment this bill makes across the country and 
especially in my home State. My home State of Washington's military 
facilities play an important role in our nation's security, from Fort 
Lewis in Tacoma, which is training the Stryker brigades--they are at 
the center of the fight in Iraq--to Fairchild Air Force Base in 
Spokane, which plays a major role in our air defense; to Naval Air 
Station Whidbey Island, which patrols our Pacific shores.

This bill ensures they are going to get funding they need, like all 
of our military facilities nationwide. In Washington State, it means 
more than $635 million in improvement for Washington's military 
installations.

One of the best things about this bill is it won such huge bipartisan 
support when it passed the Senate on a vote of 92 to 1--92 to 1 it 
passed the Senate. It does not get much better than that for a 
bipartisan, strongly supported piece of legislation.

Unfortunately, today Republicans seem to be willing to jeopardize all 
the good, critical, important matters that have been put into this bill 
which they said they supported, in order to play a procedural game that 
is designed to stop this important bill in its tracks. I think that is 
a shame.

Now they are going to say, and the President will echo them, that the 
bill before the Senate is too expensive. They will say we should have 
not joined the spending for veterans with spending for health care, 
education, and job training.

In the same breath, they are going to say this money for veterans is 
critically important and should be sent to the President before Sunday. 
Well, I agree with my 91 colleagues who supported this bill the first 
time we voted on it, and I agree we need to get it signed into law as 
soon as possible, and we can do that very easily by voting for it 
today, along with this package. It will go to the President by 
dinnertime.


Most importantly, veterans would go to sleep tonight knowing that the 
vital projects in this bill are on the way. But I fear that is not 
going to happen. Instead, now we have Republicans who are going to make 
a cynical political move and block this money for our veterans because 
we have combined it with the Labor, Health and Education spending bill.

The President objects, apparently, to combining those bills. So I 
guess the Republicans are going to put their allegiances behind 
President Bush ahead of our veterans and say ''no'' to a bill that 
almost all of those Senators supported a few short weeks ago. I think 
that is wrong.

The Labor, Health and Education bill is a good one. It won the 
support of 75 Senators a few weeks ago here on the Senate floor. We are 
joining the two because both make critical investments in a broad range 
of urgent priorities. We need to stop playing political games with both 
of these bills and we need the President to sign them now. The 
Republicans and the President are complaining about this move today. 
But it is the American people and our veterans and their families, in 
particular, who will be hurt if this political move is made today to 
separate these bills. They will pay the price, those veterans and their 
families, for this roadblock.

Our goal is simple. We want to make up for something President Bush 
has failed to do while he has tried to build up our military. We want 
to be sure our veterans are getting the care they need.

As I told my friends before, George Washington was the one who 
famously observed that:




 The willingness with which our young people are likely to 


 serve in any war, no matter how justified, shall be directly 


 proportional to how they perceive the veterans of earlier 


 wars were treated and appreciated by their country.


Today we want to reverse President Bush's failure and reaffirm this 
commitment. This bill keeps our military strong by honoring the 
sacrifices of our heroes and meeting their needs. When those men and 
women put on a uniform, they earn the right to a government that cares 
for them on their return. When we approve this bill, we will assure 
them they will get finally the care they need.

Veterans Day is just a few days away. I am confident every Senator on 
this floor will head home to acknowledge the veterans in their State, 
and rightfully tell them ''thank you'' for the tremendous service they 
have given to our country. I can think of no better time than this for 
us to forget the politics and do something positive for our veterans, 
for their families, and for our country.

I have listened to the other side and the President tell us time and 
again: We need to get the bills to the President. We need to get the 
appropriations bills to the President. That is what we are trying to do 
today, to get two of these critical bills to the President in a timely 
manner. I urge our colleagues to think twice about a procedural move 
that will not send to the President the critical funding we need for 
our veterans and our military facilities across this country. With one 
vote we can send those to the President, and by dinner tonight know we 
are doing our job for the country.

I yield the floor.