# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `44e70da432ea0c2377717d544ffb9884`
`Mr. BYRD â€” 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, here we are once again--deja vu--debating 
supplemental funding for the President's disastrous misadventure in 
Iraq. Now in its fifth year of occupation, the U.S. death toll in Iraq 
is over 3,380. What a shame, shame, shame. The death toll of innocent 
Iraqis is largely unknown, but it probably numbers in the tens of 
thousands.

The United States of America has spent over $378 billion in Iraq. Do 
you know how much a billion dollars is? That is $1 for every minute 
since Jesus Christ was born. So the United States has spent over $378 
billion in Iraq, and we are all familiar with the horrendous tales of 
waste and abuse by U.S. contractors in Iraq. The taxpayer--that is you 
out there--has been ravaged by the profiteering in Iraq. But even 
worse, despite the billions, our brave troops have been shortchanged 
with inadequate equipment to protect their lives and shoddy medical 
care, if they make it back home, to treat wounds of the body and of the 
mind.

Now the President has threatened to veto the House bill, which is 
before the Senate, because it sets a date to withdraw, provides funding 
until late July and ''could unreasonably burden the President's 
exercise of his constitutional authorities, including his authority as 
Commander in Chief.''

President Bush has also objected to funding for rebuilding the Gulf 
Coast States after Hurricane Katrina, funding to improve health care 
for our troops and our veterans, funding for the shortfall in the State 
Children's Health Insurance Program, funding for Low-Income Heating 
Assistance Program, and more funding for Homeland Security.

Mr. President, this President--our President--has a single-minded 
obsession with Iraq, and he appears to see no value in anything except 
continuing his chaotic ''mission impossible.'' While tilting at 
windmills may have been a harmless procedure for Don Quixote, Mr. 
Bush's war is turning the sands of Iraq blood red.

Mr. Bush raises constitutional concerns in his latest veto threat. I 
don't know whether to laugh or to cry. I don't no whether to laugh or 
to cry. I suppose one could be encouraged that constitutional concerns 
exist in the Bush kingdom. After setting aside the Constitution 
whenever convenient to justify preemptive attacks, illegal searches, 
secret wiretapping, clandestine military tribunals, treaty violations, 
kidnapping, torture, and a rejection of habeas corpus, one has to 
wonder about the nature of these purported ''constitutional concerns.'' 
If the Constitution is finally to be read, let us read it in its 
entirety, including the articles which give the people's 
representatives--that is us--the power over the purse--yes, the power 
over the purse; don't ever forget it. That is the real power. It gives 
the people's representatives the power over the purse and the power to 
declare war.

In its statement of administrative policy, the administration claims 
that the House bill before us '' . . . is likely to unleash chaos in 
Iraq. . . .'' Mr. President, what do we have now if not chaos in Iraq? 
Securing Iraq has unaccountably morphed into securing Baghdad, and even 
that goal eludes us. I doubt if building a wall around the green zone 
is going to be of much consequence in securing Baghdad, not to mention 
the very strange message such a wall conveys concerning our purported 
liberation of Iraq.

The President--our President--continues to miss the point. Iraq is at 
war with itself. America cannot create a stable democracy in Iraq at 
the point of a gun. While our troops succeeded in toppling Saddam 
Hussein, it is the President's profound misunderstanding of the 
dynamics in Iraq that have led to the failure of his Iraq policies. Why 
in the world should we now believe the claims that he makes in his veto 
threat?

There must be an end to this occupation of Iraq. Yes, I say 
occupation for it is no longer a war in which U.S. troops should be 
involved. Our troops won the war they were sent to fight, and they 
should not now be asked to serve as targets in a religious conflict 
between Sunni and Shiites that has raged for thousands of years. It is 
reported that even a majority in the Iraqi Parliament now supports 
legislation which demands a scheduled withdrawal and an immediate 
freeze on the number of foreign soldiers in Iraq.

In April, Congress set a new course for the war in Iraq. Sadly, the 
President--our stubborn, uncompromising President--chose to veto that 
bill. As we prepare to go to conference again, the President 
continues--our President--to close his eyes and cover his ears to the 
reality in Iraq, and the urgent need for a new direction. Whatever 
decision is made in conference will not be the last chapter in this sad 
story. God willing, this Senator will not close his eyes, nor will he 
cover his ears, nor will I stand by in silence. Hear me.

We need to conclude this terrible, awful mistake that we have made in 
Iraq. I said in the beginning that we ought not go into Iraq. But we 
are there. Anti-Americanism is more robust now than in any period in 
our history because of Iraq. Do you hear that? The international 
community is skeptical--why should they not be? They are skeptical of 
U.S. intentions because of Iraq. Our Constitution has been trampled--
hear that. Our Constitution has been trampled because of Iraq. 
Thousands of U.S. troops and Iraqi citizens have lost their lives 
because of Iraq. Thousands more are maimed physically or mentally 
because of Iraq. Billions of U.S. dollars have been wasted because of 
Iraq.

President Bush has lost all credibility. President Bush, our 
President, has lost all--all--credibility because of Iraq.

Terrorism is on the rise worldwide because of Iraq. May God grant 
this Congress--that is, us--may God grant this Congress the courage to 
come together and answer the cries of a majority of the people who sent 
us here. Find a way to end this horrible catastrophe, this 
unspeakable--unspeakable--ongoing calamity called Iraq. May God help us 
in the United States.