# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `44fe605e95553434199230bf988306c0`
`Mr. BLUNT â€” 23 June 2009`

---


Mr. BLUNT. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the House Republican standards 
on earmarks, I am submitting the following information regarding 
earmarks I received as part of H.R. 2647, The National Defense 
Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2010.

Requesting Member: Congressman Roy Blunt

Priority Name: JSOW-ER

Authorized Amount: $6.5 million

Account: Joint Standoff Weapon Systems

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: LaBarge, Inc

Address of Requesting Entity: 1505 S. Maiden Lane, Joplin, MO 64801

Description of Request: JSOW is a GPS-guided air-to-ground weapon 
designed to attack a variety of targets in day, night and adverse 
weather conditions. The 70+ mile range of JSOW allows launch aircraft 
to stand off beyond the range of most Surface-to-Air missiles. The use 
of taxpayer funds is justified because there is a need for weapons with 
greater standoff. A new variant of JSOW (JSOW-ER Block IV) would have a 
range and lethal capability equal to or greater than SLAM-ER and would 
satisfy the warfighter's need at less than half the cost of SLAM-ER. An 
existing engine from the Miniature Air-Launched Decoy program will be 
used to extend the range of JSOW-ER to more than four times of the 
current glide version.

Priority Name: Lithium Ion Storage Advancement for Aircraft 
Applications

Authorized Amount: $4.2 million

Account: Force Protection Applied Research

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: EaglePicher Technologies

Address of Requesting Entity: 1215 W B St., Joplin, MO 64801

Description of Request: Protection of Li-Ion power systems is 
absolutely necessary on all current chemistries to prevent catastrophic 
failures due to over charge, over discharge and temperature excursions. 
In conjunction with the necessary safety aspects of the power system, a 
management function is necessary to achieve maximum performance. 
Maximum performance is achieved by monitoring individual cell voltages, 
temperature and currents and using this information to control each 
cell's charging based on environments. By managing the system at the 
cell level, premature power system degradation and failure can be 
greatly reduced. This translates into reduced maintenance costs, 
increased battery life, increased performance and overall increased 
safety. The use of taxpayer funds is justified because the results from 
advancements in overall safety and chemistry not only provide safety 
for aircraft applications but can also be transitioned to the 
commercial, industrial, military as well as consumer product 
industries. The next generation of energy storage can be achieved. In 
addition, by leveraging the results from efforts on current projects, 
advancements toward new technologies can be realized sooner. These 
batteries have significant weight and power density advantages over 
legacy technologies that are currently in use.

Priority Name: Long-Loiter, Load Bearing Antenna Platform for 
Pervasive Airborne Intelligence

Authorized Amount: $8 million

Account: Aerospace Technology Dev/Demo

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Missouri State University/QinetiQ 
North America

Address of Requesting Entity: 901 S. National Ave., Springfield, MO 
65804

Description of Request: This funding will be used toward a 
revolutionary approach to the realization of truly load bearing antenna 
arrays. In addition to load bearing antennas, the DF hardware will be 
structurally integrated such that weight is minimized. DF algorithms 
have been developed and modifications for the severe conditions in 
Afghanistan will be used as a baseline. The use of taxpayer funds is 
justified because this new, affordable, antenna platform will 
significantly increase the DF capabilities of the Zephyr platform. This 
will enable rapid deployment and affordable assets in theater, adding 
significantly to the nation's assets.

Priority Name: Short Range Ballistic Missile Defense

Authorized Amount: $20.5 million

Account: Ballistic Missile Defense Terminal Defense Segment

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: LaBarge Inc

Address of Requesting Entity: 1505 S. Maiden Lane, Joplin, MO 64801

Description of Request: SRBMD is a joint Missile Defense Agency (MDA) 
and Israel Missile Defense Organization program to develop and deploy a 
cost-effective broad-area defense for use by both countries' militaries 
and Israeli civilians against ballistic missiles, large caliber rockets 
and cruise missiles. The joint program objective is to develop the 
Stunner interceptor to be common to both militaries for maximum return 
on investment. The Army has indicated its intention to integrate the 
Stunner into current and planned missile defense systems. The program 
successfully completed a critical flight test in February 2009 and two 
additional tests are scheduled this year. The use of taxpayer funds is 
justified because the additional funding requested will support 
qualification and transition to production beyond the


President's request and will support US-specific work to integrate the 
system into the US air and missile defense system. The funding will 
accelerate a critical, ongoing program and help to ensure that this 
system is deployed as quickly as possible to begin providing needed 
protection to US troops deployed around the world.
