# AMERICA COMPETES ACT
## `453324a9b4baaf741046c13bb39e439b`
`Mr. ALEXANDER â€” 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, this evening the Senate unanimously 
passed a piece of legislation which we call the America COMPETES Act. 
Earlier today, the House of Representatives passed it by a vote of 367 
to 57. So anyone watching the work of the U.S. Congress must think: 
Well, that must either be not very important or not very hard to do.

Nothing could be further from the truth. I would suggest that the 
America COMPETES Act will be as important as any piece of legislation 
the Congress passes in this session, and it has taken as much work as 
any piece of legislation that has been passed in this session.

I would like to spend a few minutes acknowledging the work and 
describing the importance of the bill, but I think the first thing to 
do is to say actually what the bill does. The point of the America 
COMPETES Act is very simple. It helps America keep its brainpower 
advantage so we can keep our jobs from going overseas to China and 
India and other countries.

The Presiding Officer is from a State that has benefitted greatly 
from America's brainpower advantage. There is a great deal of higher 
education and research in his State, and, as a result of that, a number 
of jobs. I have been in the Edison Museum in New Jersey, which is a 
good reminder of exactly what we are talking about.

Thomas Edison used to say he failed 10,000 times until he succeeded 
once. That one success was the lightbulb, and then a number of other 
inventions, which created millions of jobs in the United States.

The United States, this year, is producing about a third of all the 
money in the world. The International Monetary Fund says that almost 30 
percent of all the wealth in the world is produced in our country, 
measured in terms of gross domestic product, for just 5 percent of the 
world's population. That is how many Americans there are.

So imagine if you are living in China or India or Ireland or any 
country in the world, and you are looking at the United States. It is 
not so hard to look at other countries today with the Internet and 
travel and television the way they are. Someone in one of those 
countries could say: How can those Americans be producing 30 percent of 
all the wealth for themselves when they are only 5 percent of the 
world's population? They have the same brains everybody else does. They 
cannot work any harder than anybody else does.

What is it? There are a variety of advantages we have in this 
country. But most people who look at this country, since World War II, 
believe our standard of living, our family incomes, our great wealth 
comes primarily from our technological advances, from the fact that it 
has been in this country that the automobile, the electric lightbulb, 
the television set, the Internet, Google have been invented. Or the 
pharmaceutical drugs that help cure disease all over the world, they 
also have come mostly from this country.

It is that innovation that has given us our standard of living and 
given the rest of the world a high standard of living. That brainpower 
advantage we have is located in some pretty obvious places. One place, 
of course, is our system of higher education, the great university 
system. We not only have many of the best universities in the world, we 
have almost all of them. Another place is in the great National 
Laboratories, from Oak Ridge National Laboratory to Los Alamos and 
across our country.


Another is in the great corporations of America where research is 
done whether it is in pharmaceuticals or whether it is in agriculture. 
Those great engines of research and innovation and the entrepreneurial 
spirit and free market that we have have given us this great advantage.

We, therefore, talk a lot about progrowth policies. What causes our 
economy to grow? We, on this side--we Republicans--talk a lot about low 
taxes. I believe that is important and vote that way. When I was 
Governor of Tennessee, we had the lowest tax rates in the country. But 
I found very quickly that low taxes by themselves do not create a high 
standard of living because we had the lowest taxes in our State but we 
also were the third poorest State. I also found that better schools and 
better research were the keys to better jobs. That is what this bill is 
about. So as a result of the America COMPETES Act, over the next few 
years, we will have done something pretty remarkable.

We asked the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of 
Engineering, the Institute of Medicine, as well as other business 
leaders in our country, exactly what it would take to keep our 
brainpower advantage, and they have told us, and tonight we have done 
it. All that has to happen now is for the President of the United 
States to sign it, and I feel confident he will.


I hope what he does is sign it and take credit for a lot of it, because 
in his State of the Union Address President Bush emphasized the 
importance of this and talked about his American Competitiveness 
Initiative 2 years ago.

But this is what we have done. We have authorized the spending, over 
the next 3 years, of $43 billion to help keep our brainpower advantage 
by investing in science and technology. Most of that--and this was a 
part of the President's recommendation--helps to grow research at our 
major scientific laboratories and Departments by doubling their 
research budgets over a 7-year term. That would be the National Science 
Foundation, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the 
Department of Energy Office of Science, which among other things, 
supervises the great National Laboratories in our country.

As I said, the act authorizes a total of $43.3 billion, over the next 
3 fiscal years, for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
research and education programs across the Federal Government. It will 
help to prepare thousands of new teachers and provide current teachers 
with content and teaching skills in their area of education. It will 
establish an advanced research projects agency for energy--a nimble and 
semi-autonomous research agency at the Department of Energy--to engage 
in high-risk, high-reward energy research. This is modeled after what 
we call DARPA at the Department of Defense which produced stealth 
technology and the Internet. Perhaps we can do the same as we look for 
new energy technologies.

It expands programs at the National Science Foundation to enhance the 
undergraduate education of our future science and engineering 
workforce, including at our community colleges. There are many 
provisions in the bill to broaden participation in science and 
engineering fields at all levels.

There are new competitive grant programs to enable partnerships to 
implement courses of study in math, science, engineering, technology, 
and critical foreign languages. There are competitive grants to 
increase the number of math and science teachers serving high-need 
schools. The bill expands access to advanced placement courses and 
international baccalaureate courses by increasing the number of 
qualified teachers in high-need schools. In other words, in plain 
English, it will help more children, including those who come from 
families with less money, have a chance to take the advanced placement 
courses that will give them a route into college, high achievement, and 
the ability to produce jobs not just for themselves but for the rest of 
us.

It expands early-career research grant programs. It strengthens 
interagency planning for research infrastructure. It does all of this.

Now, one might say: Where did all these ideas come from? Did the 
Senator from New Jersey just wander in one day and say, ''I have a 
great idea. Let's stick it in''? Or did the Senator from Arkansas say, 
''Well, we have a little program over at Little Rock that we all like, 
so let's have some money for it''? Or did the Senator from Tennessee 
say, ''I was down at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory yesterday, and 
someone gave me an idea, so let's have $10 million for that''?

That is not the way we did it. What we did is, 2 years ago, Senator 
Bingaman and I, and Representatives Bart Gordon and Sherwood Boehlert 
of the House of Representatives--two Democrats and two Republicans--we 
literally went to the National Academy of Sciences and we asked this 
question: Tell us exactly what we need to do to keep our brainpower 
advantage, to keep our jobs from going to China and India? And they 
took us seriously.

The National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of 
Engineering and the Institute of Medicine appointed a distinguished 
committee of 21 Americans chaired by Norm Augustine, the former 
Chairman and CEO of Lockheed Martin and a member of the National 
Academy of Engineering. On that committee were some of America's most 
distinguished business leaders, three Nobel laureates, the president 
emeritus of MIT, teachers, and others, who gave up their summer, 
reviewed hundreds of proposals, and, in priority order, told us the 20 
things we needed to do to keep our brainpower advantage.

All of that was presented to us in a booklet called ''Rising Above 
the Gathering Storm,'' which is now well-known at universities, in 
schools, and in the business community as a wakeup call for the United 
States of America. It says we have been good--in fact, we have been way 
ahead of the rest of the line--but if we do not watch out, China, 
India, Ireland, England, and many of the other countries in the world, 
are going to catch up with us because there is no preordained right for 
Americans--no matter how bright we think we might be--to produce 30 
percent of the world's wealth for just 5 percent of the people. Other 
people can do the very same thing in their colleges and universities, 
if they wish.

The members of this commission had countless stories to tell that 
every American who confronts these issues will find. Every Senator who 
travels to China sees they have recruited a distinguished professor of 
Chinese descent at an Ivy League university to come home and help 
improve a Chinese university. That is happening all over the world, and 
it is creating a much more competitive environment.

Last summer, Senator Inouye and Senator Stevens led a delegation of 
Senators to China. We were very well received because Senator Stevens 
was the first to fly a cargo plane into Beijing in 1944 at the end of 
World War II. He was flying with the Flying Tigers. Senator Inouye, of 
course, was a Congressional Medal of Honor winner in World War II. The 
Chinese remember well their affection for Americans in that war. So we 
were treated well and got to see President Hu, and the No. 2 man, Mr. 
Wu, the Chairman of the National People's Congress, for an hour each. 
These were interviews that many American delegations had not had 
before.


What was interesting to me was that in those sessions with the No. 1 
and No. 2 man in China, where our conversations ranged from Iraq to 
Iran to North Korea to Taiwan, all the issues one might expect, the 
issue that animated the leaders of China the most was their efforts 
over the next 15 years to create an innovation economy. They wanted to 
talk about how China caught up with America's brain power advantage 
because they know their skills, they know they are good, they know they 
can do it and they did it in their way.

The month before, President Hu had walked over to the Great Hall of 
the People and assembled their National Academies of Science and 
Engineering and said: We are going on a 15-year innovation plan. We are 
going to invest 4 percent of our gross domestic product in research and 
technology. We are going to improve our colleges and our universities 
and our schools. We are going to create a brain power advantage for 
China that gives us a higher standard of living. They understand that.

We did it a little different way. Two years ago, we walked down to 
our National Academy of Sciences. We invited them to give us this 
report, ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm''. We took the 
recommendations of the Council on Competitiveness which was already 
working. The President of the United States gave his recommendations in 
his American Competitiveness Initiative. And then we went to work in 
the American way. We don't announce 15-year plans here; our way is a 
little messier. So we had to go through three committees here in the 
Senate and two in the House of Representatives.

I have to thank the senior Members of this body for the attitude they 
took toward this. For example, Senators Stevens and Inouye, Senators 
Kennedy and Enzi, Senators Domenici and Bingaman, Democrats and 
Republicans who put aside 3,000 years of seniority and 200 
jurisdictional prerogatives and said: Let's just work together and see 
if we can get this done across party lines. That is not very 
interesting to people across the country, all this inside baseball 
about how the Senate works. But it has to work in order for something 
such as this to happen.

It is not a simple thing to take the recommendations of the National 
Academy of Sciences and actually do them in both bodies, and yet that 
is what we have done. Not only did we start 2 years ago, when this was 
a Republican Congress, but we passed this legislation during a 
Democratic Congress almost without missing a step.


What happened was a bill that was sponsored by the leaders--last time 
it was Frist and Reid; now it is Reid and McConnell. They just changed 
the names because we had worked so well together--not only with 
ourselves but also with the Bush administration--that it was hard to 
tell whose bill it was.

At one time, this legislation that Senator Domenici and Senator 
Bingaman first introduced had 35 Republican cosponsors and 35 
Democratic cosponsors, and the Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, when 
she was the Democratic leader, was one of the first out to support it. 
It is especially gratifying to me that Tennesseans, if I may say so, 
have taken such a role in it in the House of Representatives. 
Representative Bart Gordon, who is now chairman of the Science 
Committee, was the lead conferee on this piece of legislation. 
Representative Zach Wamp, who represents the Oak Ridge National 
Laboratory, gave I thought the best speech on the House floor today on 
the Republican side. So again, it was bipartisan.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
at the end of my remarks an overview of the conference report we 
passed.