# None
## `4635ca811928f71ddc49b8d5e4d325c7`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. I want to make a couple other points that are not related 
to this specific bill but to the emergency supplemental appropriations 
bill for the continuing Iraq War and fight against global terrorism. We 
have a $152 billion request in front of us with another $45 billion 
expected on top of that. All of this is emergency spending and none of 
will be paid for. This will take us to the neighborhood of three 
quarters of a trillion dollars or more, when spent, with respect to the 
war in Iraq and Afghanistan and other related matters. All of these 
costs will be added directly to the federal debt.

During wartime, in most cases, this country has decided it should pay 
for things that we consume and pay for the cost of wars. We did it in 
the Civil War. We did it in the Spanish-American War. We did it in 
World War I and World War II and other wars. We began a process by 
which we tried to pay for some of that which the war was costing.

The question about whether we should commit ourselves as a country to 
pay for war is an interesting question. In the Iraq war, our soldiers 
were sent to fight, and President Bush indicated we could best serve 
our country by going shopping. We should go to the mall to keep our 
economy moving.

We could also best serve our country, in my judgment, by deciding not 
to send our soldiers to fight and then come back later and pay the bill 
because we decided to charge all of it--every penny of it borrowed.

Let me read something Franklin Roosevelt said during one of his 
fireside chats:




 Not all of us can have the privilege of fighting our 


 enemies in distant parts of the world. Not all of us can have 


 the privilege of working in a munitions factory or a ship 


 yard, or on the farms or in the fields or mines, producing 


 the weapons or raw materials that are needed by our armed 


 forces. But there is one front and one battle where everyone 


 in the United States--every man, woman, and child--is in 


 action. . . .That front is right here at home, in our daily 


 lives, and in our daily tasks. Here at home everyone will 


 have the privilege of making whatever self-denial is 


 necessary, not only to supply our fighting men [and women], 


 but to keep the economic structure of our country fortified 


 and secure . . .


President Johnson said:




 The test before us as a people is not whether our 


 commitments match our will and courage; but whether we have 


 will and courage to match our commitments.


When the emergency supplemental bill comes to the floor of the Senate 
this time, I am going to ask if we should begin to pay for some of this 
and to begin to ask for some sacrifice. At least in the easiest of 
areas for all of us to make a decision, let me show you $23 billion of 
revenue right now that we might use to offset some of that which 
otherwise will be described as emergency. I have a piece of legislation 
that will shut down offshore tax haven abuses. This is one I described 
2 years ago on the floor of the Senate. It is the Ugland House, a five-
story white house in the Cayman Islands, that is home to 12,748 
corporations. They are not there. That is a legal fiction created by 
lawyers to allow those companies to avoid paying the taxes they owe in 
the United States. I have a piece of legislation, S. 396, that says if 
U.S. corporations are going to set up a paper company in an offshore 
tax haven simply to avoid paying taxes, it is not going to work. We 
close that loophole. Here is an obvious one we could change 
immediately: end abusive foreign sale and lease transactions. We can 
use some of these to pay for some of that which we are spending on the 
war. This is a case of the lease of 65 streetcars in Germany by a 
United States corporation, First Union Bank. Here is one in which 
Wachovia Bank bought a sewage system in a German city. Do they want to 
own a German sewer system? No, they want to save $175 billion in taxes 
through a tax loophole. We could close this right now.

I am going to suggest, when we bring another emergency bill to the 
floor--in this case nearly $200 billion--that maybe it is long past 
time for us to meet the obligation we have; that is, to ask all of us 
to sacrifice a bit. In this case, ask those who have exercised huge 
loopholes to avoid paying taxes in the United States. This is a picture 
relating to another bill I have. This is called the Radio Flyer. I 
expect every Member of the Senate when they were little toddlers rode 
in a little red wagon called a Radio Flyer. This was made in Illinois. 
It was made by an immigrant who over a century ago built the company 
that created the Radio Flyer. The reason he named it Radio Flyer is, he 
liked Marconi. He enjoyed airplanes so he decided to call his little 
red wagon the Radio Flyer. Guess what. After a century this is gone. 
There are no more red Radio Flyer wagons built in America. They have 
all gone to China. And by the way, the company that shut down the plant 
in the United States and moved the red


wagons to China in search of cheap labor got a tax incentive from this 
Congress to do it. We can shut that down immediately.

So these three ideas and a temporary 1 percent emergency tariff on 
imported foreign goods would raise some $23 billion in the first year 
alone. Do we need to wait? Do we need a month, a year, 10 years? I 
don't think so. All we need is the will and the commitment to do what 
is right. With respect to these issues, I believe we could do plenty of 
things that would begin to reduce the cost that will inure to our 
soldiers, who valiantly fight when asked to, when they come back and 
discover we have spent a lot of money but we charged it all. So they 
get to fight today and pay the bill tomorrow. I think we can and should 
do much better than that.

I have described in shorthand four proposals that I hope we will 
consider when we do the second piece of this issue of Defense 
appropriations.

Senator Inouye and Senator Stevens worked very hard on this 
legislation. This is one of the largest bills we consider in the 
Senate. There are a lot of issues, some very controversial. I 
appreciate the work they and their staff have done to put this 
together. It is not an easy appropriations bill to do. My hope is that 
as we work through this in the next day or so, we will be able to have 
final passage in a couple of days and get this into conference so we 
can resolve all of these issues.

I thank the chairman and ranking member for their work.

I yield the floor.