# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `474e96485a90c88a0029bf205035bdf3`
`Mr. NEUGEBAUER â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. NEUGEBAUER. Madam Speaker, I rise tonight in strong opposition to 
this resolution and in strong support of our troops in the mission as 
they fight the global war on terror.

I am really disappointed in the hollow resolution that does not match 
the seriousness of this issue that we are debating. It appears 
politics, not the safety of our Nation, is leading the way.

Not long ago, several of my Democratic colleagues were arguing we 
need additional troops in Iraq. But now the President and the Iraqi 
Study Group say, send more troops, and now the Democrats are against 
it.

So when they say, now that they have the ability to and the 
responsibility to govern, the majority has no plan for success. In 
fact, the only plan is to cut funding for our troops on the ground in 
Iraq.

Statement after statement from Members on the other side of the aisle 
paint a very clear picture. This week's debate is merely paving the way 
for future cuts in funding for Iraq. The realities of the current 
global conflict demand a more responsible approach from this body.

We know that terrorist enemies are patient. They are calculating, and 
they intend on attacking us again. They have stated that Iraq is the 
central front for the global jihad, yet expelling America from Iraq is 
merely the first step in their strategy.

We also know that leaders of the terrorist organizations have ordered 
their followers to extend their jihad throughout the region and the 
world. So it is clear that the attacks on our country and the citizens 
will not stop if the troops pack up their bags and return from Iraq. 
The terrorists will follow us back to our America.

A long list of terror attacks took place long before 9/11 and long 
before we entered Iraq and overthrew Saddam Hussein.

I, like everyone else, want our troops to come home as soon as 
possible. However, with shortsighted political calculations made in 
this body that may cause us to lose that war, terrorist groups will 
only be encouraged to expand their efforts.

In addition to the terrorist groups who are watching this debate and 
our actions in Iraq, we also know that Iran will see that America is 
buckling to our political reactions to this issue. Not only does Iran 
stand to benefit from increased instability in the region, but seeing 
America retreat in the face of military obstacles will only embolden 
that rogue regime to question America's resolve.

While we can disagree on whether to send reinforcements, we must all 
agree that the consequences of losing the battle on the global war on 
terrorism is catastrophic and far-reaching.

America must not be a Nation where our school buses, our malls, our 
neighborhoods, become the battlefields for the war on terrorism. 
Therefore, we should be saying we will not retreat, we will not back 
down from this fight. We should stand 100 percent behind our troops and 
give them the tools and support necessary to get the job done. Our 
security depends on it.

Unfortunately, this resolution fails on each front. This resolution 
does not put forth a successful strategy for victory, and the 
resolution does not show our troops that they have our full support.

In fact, for the last 2 or 3 days, you have not heard one solution 
offered by the other side. You have not heard one solution offered of 
what happens if the President is right. This is too important of an 
issue for us to be backing down from and to be having silly political 
debates.

To the contrary, this resolution only serves to score political 
points and embarrass the Commander in Chief during a time of war. It 
does so while, at the same time, weakening the morale of our troops. 
Fighting and winning the war is serious business. It requires our 
President, our military leaders, our elected officials to make 
important decisions, tough decisions. Yet making tough decisions is 
what the American people expect their Representatives to do.

Therefore, I call on my colleagues to reject this resolution, end the 
political stunts, take seriously our responsibility to govern and to 
ensure the safety and the security of the American people.

This has been a rock fight. This is not a place for a rock fight. 
This is a place for serious deliberation to make sure that we keep 
America safe, both today and in the future.

I urge my colleagues to reject this resolution.

