# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `4791f0f27780aca7edcb48d726eaa5c9`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. I have never seen as much fraud, waste, and abuse. There 
is no analogy in the history of this country, I don't believe, for the 
amount of fraud and waste and abuse that is taking place in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. I don't think our committee could do anything else if we 
took on that responsibility. I think we would be having hearings every 
week, when we need to have hearings on all of the other matters under 
our jurisdiction. I don't know that we could do an authorization bill 
properly if we took on this responsibility. It is too massive.

I wonder whether the Senator can give me one example in American 
history where there has been this degree of waste, fraud, and abuse. We 
now see a massive investigation taking place because of the alleged 
fraud of a number of members of the armed services. I cannot remember 
anything comparable. This is a massive undertaking. It is most 
appropriate that we have a special commission to do that. There is no 
reason why they should not work in concert with an IG. We don't want 
them overlapping and conflicting.

The issue is whether we are going to take on this responsibility one 
way or the other. This is only one practical way to do it. I wish we 
had the resources and time in our committee to do the kind of oversight 
that has to be done relative to Iraq. To me, it has been the most 
shocking abuse of the taxpayers' dollars that we have seen. As a 
practical matter, I think the former chairman of the committee would 
acknowledge it would take a huge amount of staff and committee time.

I want to give one example. We have an ongoing investigation right 
now, and it is very small relative to the size and scope of this one. 
We wanted to talk to a witness. During this investigation, a number of 
witnesses talked to us voluntarily, but a few witnesses would not. In 
our committee, we don't even have subpoena power unless the full 
committee votes for it. The Senator from Virginia was very helpful to 
me, as he remembers, in getting the full committee to vote for a 
subpoena. I extended my appreciation to him then, and I do it publicly 
now for his cooperation and that of Senator McCain. Every one of those 
subpoenas required a vote. Then there had to be a hearing. We have to 
go through a hearing of our committee to hear from a witness that is 
subpoenaed, even though that should be through a discovery process. 
Even our rules are so limiting in our committee that we could not 
undertake an investigation of this scope.

This is a massive undertaking. To me, it would be suggesting, for 
instance, that if there was an Iran-Contra Commission, somehow or other 
the appointment of that Iran-Contra Commission--there was a special 
committee of the Congress. Was that an abdication of the work of the 
existing committee? I don't think so. It fit a special need at that 
time. Each of the committees from which that special committee was 
drawn didn't have the resources to do it on their own. So each of these 
are designed for a purpose.

I don't know why there would be objection. The reason for the length 
of time that the amendment takes is twofold: One is that this is a 
major investigation that will take a lot of time because its scope is 
huge. Secondly, we want to take it out of politics. I think the 
sponsors will speak to this, and perhaps already have. This should not 
be something where there is going to be a report in the middle of a 
Presidential campaign. It ought to end after that campaign is over. I 
think they provide for interim reporting, as I remember, in January 
after the Presidential campaign.

So I hope there will be bipartisan support. It is not a political 
effort. The report comes after the Presidential


campaign. There is no practical way that our committee has the 
resources to undertake the travel and the responsibility and the scope 
of this. This is huge. There has never been this degree of waste that I 
know of in American history. I know enough about this already from our 
one hearing, on one matter, involving one contractor, involving the 
scope of a contract that we touched literally with the tail of an 
elephant or donkey. It is massive.

I plead with the former chairman here, who knows exactly the 
responsibilities of our committee, who knows more than anyone in this 
body what responsibilities our committee has, that there is no 
practical way, given our bill that comes up every year, given our 
nominations process with which the Senator is fully familiar--we have 
four nominations that we have to hear tomorrow. We have dozens of 
nominations each year. On top of all of that, we have oversight, which 
we try to do in a number of areas. We had oversight on the Boeing 
contract. That was one contract that took a significant amount of time. 
We did some major good. I don't know the magnitude, but if you look at 
the Boeing contract, for instance, this contracting abuse scandal has 
to be a multiple of 10 to 100 times that one investigation. I plead 
with my friend to support this as the only practical way to get our 
hands around this situation.