# AMERICA COMPETES ACT
## `47b2c662cf639868462a6afcd8c935fa`
`Mr. ALEXANDER â€” 23 April 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. I thank the Senator.

Mr. President, our former colleague Zell Miller was Lieutenant 
Governor of Georgia when I was a Governor. He was a professor by 
profession and he was always interested in education and very skillful 
in education policy. Every Governor I know spends a lot of time trying 
to think of how we are going to recruit jobs. Well, if you study it, 
you learn after a while you don't recruit nearly as many as you grow. 
The way you grow them is with brain power. So the single best thing any 
State can do to create the largest number of good new jobs in that 
State is to keep the brightest kids at home. Governor Miller, when he 
was there, initiated the HOPE scholarship, which played a major role in 
attracting many of the brightest Georgia students, and I would say many 
of the brightest Tennessee students to come across the border to go to 
the University of Georgia, and then the residential school for math and 
science did the same. This legislation would permit every other State 
to do the same, and it is just one of the things it would do.

If I may, if the Senator from Georgia is finished with his remarks, 
he has highlighted an area I wish to enlarge on. Sometimes our 
legislation, particularly when we talk about big phrases such as 
competitiveness and globalization, takes us off into the stratosphere 
and one might say: Well, what does that have to do with me? We have 
just talked about one example. If you are the Governor of Georgia or 
Tennessee or Illinois and you are thinking: What can I do over the next 
10 years to grow the largest number of good new jobs, a residential 
school for math and science is a very good start.

I remember as Governor, after we recruited the Nissan plant and the 
Saturn plant, I was feeling pretty good. Then I counted up the number 
of jobs, and it was 10,000 or 12,000 jobs in a State that employs 2.5 
million people. We were losing 200,000 or 250,000 jobs per year, so we 
had to be creating that many more. In our country, in the United States 
of America, we are losing jobs all the time. We don't want that to 
happen, but that is happening. So the real test of our society is: Can 
we create a lot more good new jobs than we are losing, a constant 
supply of good new jobs. Most of that comes from the subject of this 
legislation: from brain power, better schools, better colleges, better 
universities, more research, and especially technological innovation.

Illinois, I am told, already has such an academy: the Illinois Math 
and Science Academy, a residential high school. I am sure the Presiding 
Officer is very familiar with it. He may have helped start it, given 
his long tenure in the Congress. This legislation would give it an 
opportunity as well to expand.

On the subject of creating new jobs, the chief State school officers 
are in town. That means the superintendent of education of Illinois and 
Tennessee's commissioner of education are here in town. I am meeting 
with them tomorrow at about noon for a while, and what I can tell 
them--even though they probably heard all about math and science they 
want to hear through No Child Left Behind--is we are doing a number of 
things to help them at least authorize funding to help them succeed. 
For example, we are authorizing grants to States to promote alignment 
of elementary and secondary education with knowledge and skills. That 
means in plain English helping States line up the math and science they 
are teaching with what you need to know to go into the Armed Forces, 
what you need to know to go to college, what you need to know to go to 
work. Sometimes there is not a good fit there. This would help schools 
and education systems, those chief State school officers, do that.

The second thing we would be doing is strengthening the skills of 
thousands of math and science teachers by using our national 
laboratories in Illinois, New Mexico, Tennessee, and around our 
country, and a host of summer institutions and academies for 
outstanding teachers of math and science, as well as for students, but 
especially for teachers.

I found in my experience as Governor, one of the most successful and 
productive things we did were Governors' schools, where we would take 
the Governors' schools for teachers of mathematics or teachers of 
reading, or students of international affairs, and the students would 
come for 2 to 4 weeks--sometimes it would only be teachers, but the 
students would come, you would bring in a core of faculty members from 
around the State, too. It would inspire those students so much, and 
what could be more inspiring for math and science teachers than to have 
a chance to be at the National Labs with Nobel Prize winners and some 
of the outstanding scientists in the world. It would refresh them, 
excite them, improve their skills, and help them carry a sense of 
mission back to their classrooms to inspire a new generation of math 
students and hopefully math and science teachers.


I can say to the chief State school officers of our various States, 
we are expanding the Robert Noyce teacher scholarship program at the 
National Science Foundation to recruit and train individuals to become 
math and science teachers in high-need, local education agencies. We 
are finding as we review No Child Left Behind in elementary and 
secondary education that 80 percent of our schools are, we can say, 
achieving, or even high achieving. In other words, their students, by 
category, are meeting what we call adequate yearly progress, so let's 
catch them doing something right. About 5 percent of those schools--I 
have missed it in one category--I would say they are still achieving 
pretty well. Only about 15 percent of the schools are high need, and 
usually what we find is they are children of low income, children whose 
parents haven't been able to help them, children whose parents have 
neglected them, children who have not yet learned English, children who 
have just arrived in this country and may not be in the same school in 
January they were in October, children who are hard to teach, and 
children who need more than even good teachers are usually able to give 
them. I am coming to


the conclusion that we need to train teachers especially to help these 
children. About 10 or 15 percent of all the children in our public 
schools across the country are these children, and these are the ones 
we are leaving behind.

Well, we are expanding teacher scholarship programs at the National 
Science Foundation to recruit and train individuals to become math and 
science teachers in high-need educational agencies. We are assisting, 
we have just said, teachers in establishing statewide specialty schools 
in math and science, and we will use the National Laboratories' staff 
to help with that. For example, if Tennessee wants to expand the new 
math and science academy Governor Bredesen has established--I salute 
him for doing it; he has wanted to do it for a while, but it is 
expensive and he only has a few students in it. This legislation makes 
it possible to use the National Laboratory staff to help Governor 
Bredesen in Tennessee expand and enlarge and make better the summer 
residential school for math and science.

I can say to the chief State school officers tomorrow, and they can 
take it back to their States across the country, that if the Congress 
enacts this legislation sponsored by the majority leader and the 
Republican leader, with 56 Senators on both sides of the aisle, its 
goal is to train 70,000 more teachers so they can teach advanced 
placement courses in math, sciences, and foreign language, so we can 
bring to the number of 700,000 the number of students who can take 
advanced placement courses in math, sciences, and critical foreign 
language.

As we have said before in the debate on this bill, students who don't 
get to take those AP courses now don't take them because they are not 
smart enough or because their brains don't work well enough; they don't 
take it often because they can't afford it or because the teachers 
aren't available to teach them in the schools they attend, so this will 
help to remedy that.

I can say to the chief State school officers, Governor Jim Hunt of 
North Carolina, one of our leading educators in America, a former 
Governor for 16 years in that State, who testified before the 
President's Commission on Higher Education that the University of North 
Carolina only graduated three physics teachers in 1 year at its College 
of Education. As I mentioned earlier, if we are not teaching physics, 
nobody is going to be learning it. So what are we going to do about 
that?

What this suggests is that after reviewing programs from all over the 
country, the Augustine commission recommends that we expand the You 
Teach program at the University of Texas. So there will be money that 
may be appropriated under this law that would permit universities to do 
as they do in Texas, in Austin, to go into the chemistry and biology 
programs and recruit students who are majoring in those science 
subjects, or a student who is majoring in math, and give them a 
scholarship to go to the College of Education and become a teacher of 
chemistry or biology or math.

Now, the Augustine report recommended that we then pay $10,000 a year 
in fellowships for those students so they can go into teaching in high-
need areas, rather than for IBM or Google or Dell or some other high-
paying job. That part of our provision is not in this legislation, the 
$10,000 fellowship. I would like to see it in there.

Senator Reid, the majority leader, the principal sponsor of this 
legislation, suggested when he introduced the bill the other day, that 
he had a very good experience--he and Paul Simon, the former 
distinguished Senator from Illinois--with finding ways to give stipends 
to teachers of math and science so they would stay in teaching. Well, 
this You Teach program at the University of Texas is now going to be 
available in Michigan, Tennessee, and other States around the country 
so we can recruit outstanding students into teaching.

In addition, the Augustine commission, after reviewing dozens and 
dozens and dozens of programs, found an especially good program at the 
University of Pennsylvania in science called Penn Science, and instead 
of recruiting students into teaching, it takes existing teachers and 
puts them through continuous training during the summer and during the 
year so they can be even better teachers of science.

I can say to the chief State school officers who are meeting in 
Washington, DC today that this legislation will permit you in Wyoming 
and in Tennessee and in New York and in Michigan and wherever to create 
a partnership between our National Laboratories and local high-need 
schools to establish centers of excellence in math and science 
education. So suddenly you match up a high-needs school with one of the 
greatest National Laboratories in the world. What can be more exciting 
for the teachers in that school or the students? It might go from being 
a high-needs school to one with a line around the block of students 
waiting to get in the door.

This legislation also has significant authorization for funding for a 
program called Math Now. This is the President's proposal, from his 
American Competitiveness Act which has been included in this 
legislation, and it would provide grants to improve math instruction in 
the elementary and middle grades and provide targeted help to 
struggling students so all students can master grade level math 
standards.

Finally, I can say to the chief State school officers who are meeting 
in Washington--and I will say it to them directly tomorrow at lunch--
that the bill also authorizes expanding programs to increase the number 
of students from elementary school through postsecondary education who 
study critical foreign languages. We find this not just in our military 
needs in Iraq and Afghanistan and around the world, but we increasingly 
live in a worldwide economy, and our students, our citizens will be 
better citizens, more effective citizens, if more of us speak more than 
one language. There is a long list.

There are 10 or 11 programs that either expand or create efforts to, 
as the Augustine commission says, ''increase America's talent pool by 
vastly improving K through 12 science and mathematics education.''

Senator Bingaman, I, Senator Domenici, and the House Members asked 
our national academies: Please tell us exactly what we need to do to 
keep our brain power advantage so we can keep our jobs. We understand 
that since World War II, more than half of this remarkably high 
standard of living we have has come through innovation and technology. 
We understand that and we have an idea or two and we have friends with 
an idea or two about what to do, but tell us exactly what to do about 
it. Tell us in priority order. They put down K-12--vastly improving K-
12 science and mathematics education.

I see the Senator from New Mexico is present. We have had a good 
discussion this afternoon. Some of the principal advocates have been 
here, and I especially appreciate Senators Stevens and Inouye who have 
given a great sense of urgency to this legislation. The Presiding 
Officer, Senator Stabenow, has as well. Michigan has a tremendous 
number of research institutes and great universities that add fuel to 
the economic resurgence of that State and every other State.

Really, we are all interested in this legislation. The key is, How do 
we put it together in a way that we can get it through this interesting 
process we call the Senate? I think we are reasonably close to doing 
that, thanks to the senior leadership of this body and Senator Bingaman 
and Senator Domenici on the Energy Committee.

Madam President, I will conclude my remarks now and yield he floor to 
Senator Bingaman.