# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `47b802b62069808a6eb2e15676e448a8`
`Mr. SPECTER â€” 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, the Senate is now engaged in a historic 
debate about what the United States of America should do with respect 
to the conflict in Iraq. We are scheduled to vote on three resolutions 
at 3:45 this afternoon. I was advised early this morning, about 8 a.m., 
that we would have four resolutions to vote on and that there would be 
a time agreement of some 6 hours, with votes to occur late this 
afternoon. Two of the resolutions among the four were not in existence, 
one of the resolutions has since been dropped, and the fourth 
resolution was made available less than an hour ago. This kind of a 
timetable, it seems to me, is not conducive to the kind of deliberation 
and thought necessary to make intelligent decisions on the momentous 
questions which we are facing.

We are asking the U.S. military to adopt a timetable to clear out of 
Iraq no later than a year from now, and we have a tough time 
establishing even a timetable as to what the Senate will do in the 
course of a single day.

As I review the proceedings, it seems to me that the Congress is not 
prepared to act on this subject on this state of the record. It may be 
that the Congress is not competent to act on this kind of an issue. 
There is a maxim that you can't manage effectively by committee, and 
what this concurrent resolution seeks to do is to have management by 
two committees--that is perhaps twice as bad as trying to manage by one 
committee--a committee of 435 in the House of Representatives and a 
committee of 100 here.

Yesterday, I spoke briefly about S. Res. 9, which has been 
cosponsored by 41 Democrats, no Republicans. I think it is regrettable 
that there appears to be a partisan divide on this subject. This matter 
is too important to be determined by party loyalty. Perhaps a more 
important aspect of noting that the resolution is supported by 41 
Democrats is that it is not supported by 9 Democrats, with 50 Democrats 
in this body. So perhaps it is significant that it is not supported by 
9 Democrats.

I would be prepared to cross party lines, as I have done in the past 
when I thought it warranted, if I agreed with the thrust of the 
resolution. Seven of us joined with the Democrats in voting for cloture 
several weeks ago to move ahead with the debate and try to come to a 
resolution on the Iraqi issue, and I was one of the seven. I would not 
hesitate to do so again if I agreed, but I cannot agree with the 
proposal which would require that not later than 120 days after 
enactment to have phased redeployment of U.S. forces, with the goal of 
redeploying by March 31, 2008, all U.S. combat forces in Iraq except 
for three conditions: to protect U.S. and coalition personnel, training 
and equipping Iraqi forces, and conducting targeted counterterrorism 
operations.

The thrust, however, is to leave Iraq in about 1 year, and that is to 
ensure defeat. Setting a timetable simply enables our opponents to wait 
us out.

I think beyond that, the idea of having the Congress of the United 
States micromanage the war is simply not realistic, and perhaps it may 
even be unlawful. As I noted yesterday, in the case of Fleming v. Page, 
in 1850, the Supreme Court said:




 As Commander in Chief, he is authorized to direct the 


 movements of the naval and military forces placed by law at 


 his command, and to employ them in the manner he may deem 


 most effectual to harass and conquer and subdue the enemy.


That is a fairly forceful statement that it is not up to the Congress 
to micromanage a war but that it is up to the Commander in Chief, the 
President of the United States.

That is not to say that the Congress does not have authority in the 
premises. Yesterday, I put into the Record a lengthy letter which I had 
written calling for additional hearings by the Judiciary Committee on 
the relative powers, authority of the Congress under the Constitution, 
with our power of the purse and our power to maintain and direct 
armies, contrasted with the President's power as Commander in Chief.

I believe, however, it is of questionable legal authority to 
micromanage, and it is definitely impractical for us to seek to 
micromanage if the consequences of giving an order to the President 
would just enable the enemy to wait us out. That is not to say that at 
some time in the future it may be necessary, and there may be a 
considered joint judgment by the Congress, to use the extraordinary 
power of the purse to implement our constitutional authority to 
maintain armies to effectuate a withdrawal.

Yesterday, I commented on the Senate floor that it would be most 
helpful to have an update from the Department of Defense and the 
Department of State as to whether, since General Petraeus went to Iraq, 
implementing a new strategy as he articulated it to many of us in the 
Congress in meeting with him, whether there have been improvements, so 
that there was some realistic prospect of victory, which is what we 
want. The consequences of defeat are disastrous, but that does not mean 
that we can be in Iraq forever.

The President, in his State of the Union speech, set two objectives 
for the Iraqis. One was to end the sectarian violence and, secondly, to 
secure Baghdad as indispensable prerequisites for maintaining U.S. 
forces in Iraq. The Iraqis have shown neither the capacity nor the will 
to carry out those objectives. In evaluating the strategy of General 
Petraeus, it would be helpful to know if there have been any positive 
signs or negative signs, giving us some clue as to the prospects of 
victory.

Through staff, I made an inquiry of the Department of Defense for 
some updated material, and none was available. Similarly, through 
staff, I made an inquiry of the Department of State, asking if there 
had been any results from the change in policy to negotiate


with Iran and Syria, at least on a multilateral basis. One part of the 
resolution that is supported by 41 Democrats, calling for a 
comprehensive diplomatic, political, and economic strategy, has been 
implemented by the Department of State, at least in the incipient 
stages. Even in the absence of any indication of any progress, it seems 
to me unwise, on this state of the record, to set a timetable which 
would just embolden and empower the enemy to win by waiting us out.

The power of the purse is the ultimate constitutional authority of 
the Congress. Even there, as I noted yesterday in the case of United 
States v. Lovett, in 1946, the Supreme Court held that Congress cannot 
use its appropriations power indirectly to accomplish an 
unconstitutional objective. That still leaves substantial parameters to 
decide what to do.

The second resolution is the one submitted by Senator Gregg, and 
Senator Gregg articulates a resolution that all of us agree with:




 That it is the sense of Congress that Congress should not 


 take any action that will endanger United States military 


 forces in the field. . . .


That would be unthinkable. No one disagrees with that. Then the Gregg 
resolution goes on to say:




 . . . including the elimination or reduction of funds for 


 troops in the field.


That phrase could be interpreted to mean that Congress does not have 
the authority to stipulate an elimination or reduction of funds for 
troops in the field so that we couldn't say to the President to reduce 
the troops by a certain date. Or perhaps it should be read in 
conjunction with taking no action to endanger to say you have to be 
down to a certain number by a certain date, as Congress did in 
legislation in 1974, saying that when the war in Vietnam was winding 
down, there could be no more than 4,000 troops in the field in 6 months 
and no more than 3,000 troops in the field in a year. That 
congressional legislation was signed by President Ford, although he 
expressed some reservations. So perhaps the Gregg resolution does not 
purport to totally eliminate the authority of Congress to act by 
cutting off funding if it can be done in a way which does not endanger 
the troops in the field. Certainly the thrust, the gravamen of the 
Gregg resolution is one where there would be no disagreement, we simply 
could not endanger the troops in the field or take any action which 
would endanger them.


Then the third resolution--which was filed less than an hour ago by 
Senator Murray--sounds very much like the Gregg resolution. It is 
intended, I think, to provide an alternative to the Gregg resolution, 
but it is very close. The Murray resolution provides:




 The President and Congress should not take any action that 


 will endanger the Armed Forces of the United States and will 


 provide necessary funds for training, equipment and other 


 support for troops in the field as such actions will ensure 


 their safety and effectiveness in preparing for and carrying 


 out their assigned missions.


We all agree with that. Then it goes on to say:




 The President, Congress and the Nation have an obligation 


 to ensure that those who have bravely served this country in 


 time of war receive the medical care and other support they 


 deserve.


No one could disagree with that. It is a reference to what has 
happened at Walter Reed. Then the third clause in the resolution.




 Resolved: The President and Congress should continue to 


 exercise their constitutional responsibilities to ensure that 


 the Armed Forces have everything they need to perform their 


 assigned or future missions.


We can't disagree with that. And then:





. . . review, assess and adjust United States policy and 


 funding as needed to ensure our troops have the best chance 


 for success in Iraq and elsewhere.


That also is apple pie, motherhood, and milk. There is a little 
implication, on ''review, assess and adjust,'' perhaps a change in 
policy, but it does not say anything definitive.

There was supposed to have been a fourth resolution offered by 
Senator Warner, who had an earlier resolution which was not taken up by 
the Senate. Senator Warner is to be commended for his service to the 
country, heading the Armed Services Committee, 28 years in this body, 
Secretary of the Navy, served in World War II. He was searching for 
some alternative. But in the absence of any resolution having been 
filed, the inference arises that the search continues. That is where I 
think we are on this issue.

The electorate spoke last November in disagreeing with United States 
policy in Iraq. The House of Representatives has spoken, disagreeing 
with United States policy in Iraq. The Senate is about to speak, but it 
is highly doubtful--virtually impossible that a forced withdrawal 
within a year will be approved by 60 Members of this body. The 
resolutions by Senator Gregg and Senator Murray are not twins, but they 
are first cousins. But we are still groping for what to do.

My own sense of the situation is we need to pursue some preliminary 
reports that things are improving and find out if in fact that is true. 
As I look at Iraq--and I used the metaphor yesterday--it is a tunnel 
and we can't see the end of the tunnel. Certainly there is no 
indication that there is a light in the end of the tunnel. I don't like 
being in the tunnel, but I don't know where else to go at the moment.

I am not going to go with a resolution to leave Iraq, micromanage the 
war, tell the President what to do when we frankly don't know what to 
do. But we are groping. Just as we are unprepared to deal with these 
resolutions in a limited time, by 3:45, we are unprepared to tell the 
military what to do in a year. So I think we need to go back to the 
drawing boards and I think we need to find out more facts. It may be 
General Shinseki was right in 2003, that job required a lot more 
personnel, into the hundreds of thousands, under the Colin Powell 
doctrine of overwhelming force. Maybe that was the course which should 
have been followed. Certainly we don't want to deploy more troops now, 
in those quantities. For General Shinseki's brilliance, he got himself 
fired, ridiculed and fired. We are trying to find out what to do.

I had an opportunity to visit the Mideast and talk to President Assad 
of Syria last December. President Assad advanced the idea of having an 
international conference before the idea was advanced by Secretary of 
State Condoleezza Rice. I carried that message back and conveyed 
Assad's suggestion to Condoleezza Rice. Whether that had any impact on 
her idea, I don't know. But I do believe--and I said this in a lengthy 
speech on the Senate floor last June, and in an article which appears 
in the current issue of the Washington Quarterly--that dialog should be 
undertaken with Iran and Syria. We have seen the multilateral dialog 
with North Korea, supplemented by direct contracts, bilateral 
negotiations, produce what appears to be an answer to diffusing North 
Korea's possession of nuclear weapons. We don't know for sure because 
that is a very tentative basis, but we made a lot of progress and we 
appear to have an answer.

I think there is cause for hope that the multilateral talks with Iran 
and Syria, and perhaps bilateral talks, will produce something there. 
So I am going to oppose S. Res. 9 and I am going to support the first 
cousins, the Gregg resolution and the Murray resolution. They say 
something which is obvious. We are not going to take any action to 
endanger the American troops. But that does not mean we are without 
power in the future to use the appropriations power, the power of the 
purse, to put Congress's imprimatur and decision on what is going on.

The President said for a long time he was the decider. I think he has 
wisely receded a little from that assertion. It is a joint, shared 
responsibility between Congress and the President. There has been a lot 
of talk. I think the American people ought to know there has been a lot 
of--it is more than talk; there has been a lot of very serious thought 
which has been undertaken by the Members of the Congress, both the 
Senate and the House, trying to find a way to have a victory in Iraq. 
Our statements of disagreement with the President do not mean we ought 
to tell him what to do when in fact we do not know what to do.

For myself, I think we need to find out more about what is happening 
now, both militarily and diplomatically; going back to the drawing 
board and seeing if we can come up with a better answer than the one we 
are facing at the present time.



I thank the distinguished Senator from Oklahoma, who is managing the 
bill.

I yield the floor.