# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `48539b60d1a3083fa13ca2adf04cab43`
`Mrs. SHAHEEN â€” 22 February 2010`

---


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Madam President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise 
today to pay tribute to the life and service of Army SPC Marc P. 
Decoteau of Waterville Valley, NH. Tragically, this young soldier, just 
19 years old, died while serving as part of Operation Enduring Freedom 
in Wardak Province, Afghanistan on January 29, 2010. Specialist 
Decoteau was a member of the 6th Psychological Operations Battalion, 
4th Psychological Operations Group based at Fort Bragg, NC. He had been 
deployed in Afghanistan less than 1 month at the time of his death.

Specialist Decoteau enlisted in the Army shortly after his graduation 
from Plymouth Regional High School in 2008. He made this honorable 
decision without reservation, having long declared his desire to serve. 
Marc followed in the footsteps of his father, an Army veteran and West 
Point graduate. His decorations include the National Defense Service 
Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal with Campaign Star, Army Service 
Ribbon, and Global War on Terrorism Service Medal. Marc was 
posthumously awarded the Army Commendation Medal, Army Good Conduct 
Medal and NATO Medal.

Despite his young age, Specialist Decoteau left an indelible mark on 
those who knew him. Marc was an upstanding young man with an infectious 
sense of humor and warm smile. His hometown of Waterville Valley is an 
exceptionally tight-knit community of just 340 residents, and he was an 
integral member of it. While at Plymouth Regional, he was also an 
outstanding student-athlete who played lacrosse and football and was 
known for his work ethic. He was a member of two State champion 
football teams.

Each day, the men and women of our Armed Forces offer their service 
so that we might enjoy freedom and security. Specialist Decoteau 
selflessly gave his life to that cause. No words can diminish the pain 
of losing such a young soldier, but I hope Marc's family--and the town 
of Waterville Valley, his extended family--can find solace in knowing 
that all Americans share a deep appreciation of Marc's service. Daniel 
Webster's words, first spoken during his eulogy for Presidents Adams 
and Jefferson in 1826, are fitting: ''Although no sculptured marble 
should rise to their memory, nor engraved stone bear record of their 
deeds, yet will their remembrance be as lasting as the land they 
honored.'' Specialist Decoteau has earned our country's enduring 
gratitude and recognition.

Specialist Decoteau is survived by his parents Nancy and Mark, his 
sister Medora and brother Andrew, as well as grandparents, aunts, 
uncles and cousins. This young patriot will be dearly missed by all; 
his death while deployed far from home is a true loss for New Hampshire 
and for our nation. I ask my colleagues and all Americans to join me in 
honoring the life, service and sacrifice of SPC Marc P. Decoteau.














 Captain Daniel Whitten
