# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `4b096e6b6663723c4a0da28fd4507482`
`Mrs. CUBIN â€” 25 September 2008`

---


Mrs. CUBIN. Madam Speaker, in conformance with Republican Earmark 
Standards Guidance, I hereby submit the attached detailed finance plan 
for the C-130 Squadron Operations Facility at the Cheyenne Municipal 
Airport in Cheyenne, WY. This project is funded at $7,000,000 in H.R. 
2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing 
Appropriations Act of 2009, as reported by the House Rules Committee on 
September 23, 2008. I am pleased to support this project on behalf of 
the Wyoming National Guard as they seek to fulfill vital national 
defense and homeland security requirements in association with the 
active duty Air Force.

Requesting Member: Rep. Barbara Cubin (WY-At Large).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Military Construction; Air National Guard.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Wyoming National Guard.

Address of Requesting Entity: 5500 Bishop Boulevard/Cheyenne, WY 
82009.

Description of Request: Provide an earmark for $7,000,000 to 
construct a squadron operations facility at the Cheyenne Municipal 
Airport in Cheyenne, WY. Specifically, $5,795,000 for basic 
construction of the approximately 26,200 square foot facility; $200,000 
for utilities; $165,000 for roadway and parking pavements; $55,000 for 
site improvements; $75,000 for communications support; $315,000 in 
contingency funds for unforseen expenses; and $396,000 for supervision, 
inspection and overhead. This request is consistent with the intended 
and authorized purpose of the Air National Guard's Military 
Construction account. The Wyoming National Guard has identified a need 
for this new, consolidated facility to provide space for 
administration, training, intelligence, life support, survival 
equipment, command post, flight planning, aircrew briefing rooms, 
flight management, and storage. This facility is designed to sustain 
24-hour/day operations supporting airborne firefighting, aeromedical 
evacuation, and homeland defense missions of 12-PAA C-130 aircraft 
associated with active duty Air Force personnel.

In conformance with Republican Earmark Standards Guidance, I hereby 
submit the attached detailed finance plan for the ADAL Missile Service 
Complex at F.E. Warren Air Force Base in Cheyenne, WY. This project is 
funded at $810,000 in H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act of 2009, as reported by 
the House Rules Committee on September 23, 2008. I am pleased to 
support this project on behalf of F.E. Warren Air Force Base as the 
base continues its efforts to provide our nation with robust nuclear 
deterrence.

Requesting Member: Rep. Barbara Cubin (WY-At Large).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Military Construction; Air Force.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: F.E. Warren Air Force Base-Address 
of Requesting Entity: F.E. Warren Air Force Base.

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $9,043,000 for a modern 
and efficient facility in which to perform missile component repair, 
technical training, administrative functions, and security code 
issuance. This requirement will provide a Keys and Codes Control Center 
(KCCC) and an Operational Security Keys and Codes (OSC) center. It will 
also provide a Proof Load Test Pit (PLTP), an essential part of 
Minuteman III (MMIII), as well as a facility to test the structural 
integrity of the missile carriage and erection vehicle, something that 
occurs 10-20 times each month. The $810,000 earmark in this bill will 
support planning and design for this project.

In conformance with Republican Earmark Standards Guidance, I hereby 
submit the attached detailed finance plan for the Multicontinuum 
Technology for Space Structures project in Laramie, WY. This project is 
funded at $2,880,000 in H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act of 2009, as reported by 
the House Rules Committee on September 23, 2008. I am pleased to 
support this project on behalf of Firehole Technologies, Inc. as they 
continue their efforts to provide our Armed Forces with a foundation 
for the efficient computer analysis of the composite structures that 
are growing in importance to our national security.

Requesting Member: Rep. Barbara Cubin (WY-At Large).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force; Space 
Technology; Line 13.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Firehole Technologies, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: Wyoming Technology Business Center/
Dept. 3011, 1000 E. University Avenue/Laramie, WY 82071

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $3.6 million to develop 
a foundation for accurate and efficient computer analysis of composite 
structures in order to ensure their optimized application and, 
ultimately, mission success. The Air Force is actively designing and 
developing space structures where increased payloads, structural 
precision and deployable sub-structures are critical to mission 
success. Composites have emerged at the forefront of the material 
selection process for these applications based upon their unique 
strength-to-weight ratios, physical property tailoring, and shape 
memory capability.

Specifically, the budget for this project breaks down as follows: 
$1,626,713 for engineering labor; $585,000 for University of Wyoming 
subcontract expenses; $133,835 in consulting costs; $93,805 in travel 
expenses; $404,647 in General and Administrative expenses; and $756,000 
for Air Force program management.

In conformance with Republican Earmark Standards Guidance, I hereby 
submit the attached detailed finance plan for the Eye-Safe Long Range 
Stand-Off System for Detection of Chemical and Biological Weapons 
project in Laramie, WY. This project is funded at $1,500,000 in H.R. 
2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing 
Appropriations Act of 2009, as reported by the House Rules Committee on 
September 23, 2008. I am pleased to support this project on behalf of 
DeltaNu as they continue their efforts to provide our Armed Forces with 
enhanced chemical/biological materials long-range detection 
capabilities.

Requesting Member: Rep. Barbara Cubin (WY-At Large).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide; 
Chemical and Biological Defense Program--Advanced Development; Line 33.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: DeltaNu.

Address of Requesting Entity: 628 Plaza Lane/Laramie, WY 82070.

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $4.5 million for the 
development of long-range chemical/biological detection technology 
critical to new requirements for U.S. forces in the Middle East. 
Currently available detection systems are based on outdated technology 
that will never be able to provide soldiers sufficient early warning 
about incoming chemical/biological weapons.

This project received $1.12 million for FY08 to develop a hand-held 
detection device to function up to 25 meters and beyond, though this 
device is not eye-safe. This year's request will continue to enhance 
the range at which the device can be used effectively, as well as fund 
the development of an eye-safe version of this product. The chemical/
biological detection system developed by this request will enhance 
several military capabilities, including: the ability to detect exposed 
personnel or vehicles before they enter a base; the detection


of weapons materials before they can threaten personnel; and the 
accurate identification of hazardous material such that the correct 
countermeasure can be applied.


Specifically, the budget for this project breaks down as follows: 
$1,000,000 for materials; $675,000 for labor; $809,528 for labor 
overhead; $85,006 for subcontractors, including $75,006 for the 
University of Wyoming; $30,000 for travel; $1,705,034 for General and 
Administrative expenses; $200,000 in facilities expenses; and $495,502 
for profit.

In conformance with Republican Earmark Standards Guidance, I hereby 
submit the attached detailed finance plan for the Enhanced Landmine and 
IED Detection System project in Laramie, WY. This project is funded at 
$960,000 in H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act of 2009, as reported by the House 
Rules Committee on September 23, 2008. I am pleased to support this 
project on behalf of ADA Technologies, Inc. as they continue their 
efforts to provide our Armed Forces enhanced landmine and Improvised 
Explosive Device detection capabilities.

Requesting Member: Rep. Barbara Cubin (WY-At Large).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army; Landmine 
Warfare and Barrier Advanced Technology; Line 48.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: ADA Technologies, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: Wyoming Technology Business Center/
Dept. 3011, 1000 E. University Avenue/Laramie, WY 82071

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $3,400,000 for the 
development and testing of prototype integrating portable robots with 
landmine and Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) detection technology. 
The Enhanced Landmine and IED Detection System (eLIDs) will allow 
potential landmine and IED threats to be accurately and quickly 
classified. The application of this technology into robotic form will 
greatly enhance the war fighter's ability to concentrate on other 
missions while the machinery protects war fighters from the explosives 
threats posed by landmines and IED's.

Buried mine detection and IED detection has become an increasingly 
urgent requirement for our nation's war fighters in Afghanistan and 
Iraq. IED detection in the field includes route clearance, urban 
environment, check point clearance and vehicle borne IEDs. 
Historically, landmine and IED detection has been done with a single 
detector capability, such as a metal detector, and has not been 
effective since landmines and IED's are built from other materials. New 
and more accurate detection techniques need to be developed and 
integrated into operational detection systems.

Specifically, the project budget breaks down as follows: $2,260,000 
for labor ($1,630,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 and 2010); $80,000 
for materials ($40,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 and 2010); and 
$60,000 for travel expenses ($30,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 and 
2010).

In conformance with Republican Earmark Standards Guidance, I hereby 
submit the attached detailed finance plan for the Enhanced Robotic 
Manipulators for Defense Applications project in Jackson, WY. This 
project is funded at $750,000 in H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, 
Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act of 2009, as 
reported by the House Rules Committee on September 23, 2008. I am 
pleased to support this project on behalf of Square One Systems Design 
as they continue their efforts to provide our Armed Forces with 
robotics technology with defense-related applications.

Requesting Member: Rep. Barbara Cubin (WY-At Large).

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army; Army 
Technical Test Instrumentation and Targets; Line 135.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Square One Systems Design.

Address of Requesting Entity: P.O. Box 10520/Jackson, WY 83002.

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $870,000 for the 
development of robotic manipulators, including the extension for use in 
Improvised Explosive Device disassembly capability, the integration of 
High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU) devices into the manipulator 
to allow for remote treatment of critically wounded soldiers and the 
development of grippers consistent with the robotic casualty 
evacuation.

Improvised explosive devices have emerged as the most lethal threat 
facing Coalition Forces in Iraq. A number of countermeasures have been 
developed to address this threat including the use of tele-operated 
explosive ordnance disposal robots. While these robots are capable of 
providing standoff detonation capability, they lack the dexterity 
needed to effectively perform high-level explosive handling tasks. The 
successful development of robot manipulators has the potential to 
improve the effectiveness of America's frontline combat forces while 
greatly reducing the exposure of our soldiers to hostile fire. As 
mentioned above, there remain other potential applications for robotic 
manipulators, including their integration into tele-operated trauma 
care robots.

Specifically, this project breaks down as follows: $280,000 for 
mechanical design; $86,000 for electrical design; $120,000 for 
controls; $56,000 for machine vision; $74,000 for prototype assembly 
and testing; $44,000 for project management; and $210,000 for parts and 
materials.
