# None
## `4b4880fb68c8352e3a2fb44d30af1115`
`Mr. EMANUEL â€” 12 June 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.

The minority leader brought up two essential points which were 
basically, at that point, why we were here at a quarter to 1 in the 
morning. The first point dealt with the issues of fiscal responsibility 
and spending, and the second issue dealt with earmarks and the 
procedure or transparency and the questions that the minority had.

On the first issue of fiscal responsibility, he said that they were 
tired of the amount of spending that was going on and how basically 
flagrant spending had happened under Democrats.

After 6 years and $4 trillion of new debt run by a Republican 
President and Republican Congress and Republican Senate, I do 
appreciate your conversion on the road to Damascus as it relates to 
fiscal responsibility and spending. And I do believe that after we've 
seen the highest increase in the Nation's debt in the shortest period 
of time under a Republican Congress and a Republican President, adding 
$4 trillion to the Nation's debt, that you have decided enough is 
enough when it comes to a piece of legislation on homeland security, 5 
years after the strike on 9/11. I think it's ironic that it's on this 
bill that you have decided the spending issue you want to debate.

Now, the minority leader did offer, and he has said as recently as a 
couple weeks ago, when we have certain debates on the war in Iraq, 
protecting America, to always be conscious that people from around the 
world are watching this debate. So I do believe as it relates to 
homeland security, as we try to protect our borders, as we try to 
protect our ports, and as we try to protect our cargo, I'm sure the 
terrorists around the world are quaking in their boots on the motions 
to rise. You've given them nothing but fear as that issue emerges. That 
is your right.













Announcement by the Chairman
