# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `4b62146290b1627849c1e75bc6afcf27`
`Mr. LEWIS of California â€” 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 5 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, let me begin by making a personal observation. This 
evening we are embarking upon the most irresponsible, convoluted 
legislative exercise I have seen in my many years in this body. My dear 
friend and former chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, the 
late Senator Robert Byrd, would be embarrassed by this process, or the 
lack of process, because it greatly diminishes the integrity of this 
Congress he loved so dearly. I can


hear Senator Byrd's voice clear as day. ''Shame, shame,'' he would say.

It was 35 days ago that the full Appropriations Committee was 
scheduled to mark up the fiscal year 2010 emergency supplemental before 
us. Republicans and Democrats alike had a number of amendments they 
planned to offer to make the package a better piece of legislation. 
But, for reasons that remain a mystery to everyone, that markup was 
abruptly canceled 3 hours before it was to occur. Tonight, the House is 
considering legislation written by Chairman Obey and the majority 
leadership with absolutely no input from rank-and-file Members on 
either side of the aisle.

The only legislation we should be considering today is a clean 
emergency supplemental funding bill to provide critical funding for our 
troops; foreign assistance and economic support for Afghanistan, as 
well as Pakistan and Iraq, should be included; FEMA disaster 
assistance; oil spill cleanup assistance; and relief for Haiti. Many 
other funding and policy items could easily be addressed through our 
regular order spending bills.

Just hours ago we were sent a package of six different amendments and 
two resolutions, totaling 153 pages. Included in that package were 
efforts to cut off troop funding, a timetable for troop withdrawal from 
Afghanistan, billions in additional spending on domestic programs, a 
variety of complex legal settlements piggybacked into a billion-dollar 
summer youth program, and a deem-and-scheme resolution that proposes 
spending $31 billion more in discretionary spending in FY 2011 than was 
spent in FY 2010. It's worth noting that only in Washington could 
Chairman Obey and Chairman Spratt characterize this $31 billion 
increase as a cut.

I am deeply concerned about the impact these amendments could have on 
our ability to approve a bill for the President's signature prior to 
the Fourth of July recess. The failure of this body to approve critical 
funds for our troops before the Fourth of July would send absolutely 
the wrong message to our men and women in uniform, and delay needed 
money for other emergency needs.

Further, this inaction would force our commanders to begin making 
budget decisions that could compromise our military readiness. It would 
also signal to our enemies a lack of resolve that could undermine our 
mission in several very dangerous areas of the world.

The fact that we are sitting here in July without this spending bill 
passed and signed into law is, frankly, astonishing to me. The 
President submitted his request in February of this year. The Senate 
passed its war funding measure on May 27, and indicated that it was 
ready to conference the bill with the House. The House never marked up 
this supplemental or had an opportunity to amend it in any way. And 
yet, here we are 35 days and tens of billions of dollars of spending 
later, and we still have not approved funding for our troops.

Yesterday, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released a 
long-term budget outlook. CBO noted that our national debt equaled 40 
percent of our country's economic input in 2008. By the end of this 
year, the Federal debt will represent 62 percent of our national 
economy. That's a 22 percent increase in the level of debt in just 2 
years. The additional unrequested nontroop-related spending the House 
is considering today would drive that debt even higher.

I recognize there are tremendous political pressures that come to 
bear on majority Members when it comes to opposing measures sponsored 
by their own party. Today my request to the Members of the majority is 
quite simple: Please think long and hard about the consequences of 
supporting anything beyond the clean Senate supplemental spending bill.