# EXPRESSING CONDOLENCES TO PAKISTANI PEOPLE AFTER FLOODS
## `4b7246bd6ea6755dbc92f8c63d0f10b0`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas â€” 15 September 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished gentleman 
from Georgia, and let me thank him very much for his very important 
statement on this important resolution. And as well I would like to 
thank the chairman of our full committee, Mr. Berman, and the ranking 
member of our full committee, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, and the manager of this 
legislation for the minority for the words that I believe are 
enormously important.

Let me indicate to my colleagues that this may be the most important, 
or one of the most important, and devastating humanitarian crises that 
we have faced over the time frame that we have been in Congress. And 
let me say this. We have gone through Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. As I 
stand here today, there are a number of hurricanes that are in the gulf 
region. We add our sympathy to the people in California experiencing an 
enormous and terrible explosion. To my friend from Utah, he knows that 
those dear friends have experienced their own share of concerns 
certainly with natural disasters. So we don't take anything away from 
the suffering of the American people or others. Many of us remember the 
tsunami, for all of our communities were engaged in trying to get our 
hands around that natural disaster and to be of help.

But as many have expressed as they have come back to the United 
States from Pakistan, Madam Speaker, I can assure you that this looms 
so large that it is without description. The reason is because we know 
that there was rain, we know that there was a flood, or flooding, but 
we probably are not aware that the water has remained in place in so 
much and so many areas of Pakistan that it equals the size of States 
like Rhode Island. So we have people who cannot return even to see what 
remains or what losses they have experienced, or to even begin to 
recover and to rebuild.

I would encourage my colleagues to see the extent of that damage by 
way of a presentation that is being made today, the Pakistan Flood 
Disaster Photo Exhibit, from which I will just share one picture. And 
you can go to the Rayburn Foyer all day today and see the depth of the 
devastation.

So I want to thank you, Madam Speaker, as I rise today in strong 
support of H. Res. 1613, expressing condolences to, and solidarity 
with, the people of Pakistan in the aftermath of the devastating floods 
that began on July 22, 2010. I would like to thank my colleague, 
Chairman Berman, for introducing this important and timely resolution, 
which I offer and know that many have cosponsored, including myself.

On July 22, Pakistan experienced one of the heaviest monsoon rains in 
at least 80 years in the region. For those who have been to Islamabad, 
Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar, we understand the terrain of that Nation and 
realize that it is again unspeakable in its description. The massive 
amount of rain triggered both flash floods and river flooding 
throughout Pakistan, leading to widespread displacement, infrastructure 
damage, and contamination of water sources.

Madam Speaker, I have spoken about the value of clean water for many 
years as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, but as well in 
general in this Congress. And I will tell you that as Pakistani 
Americans have come to my office, they have said the most deadly aspect 
of this flood is for mothers and babies and children and families not 
to be able to have clean water. And therefore disease being spread 
through lack of clean water, seeing malnourished children, but children 
who are likewise devastated by not having water suffering from 
infection and disease.

The flooding has caused a humanitarian crisis of unprecedented 
proportions that has affected over 20 million people, which aid 
agencies assert has a greater human impact than Pakistan's earthquake 
in 2005, the Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004, and the recent earthquake in 
Haiti combined.



More than 1,750 people have been killed; 2,700 have been injured; and 
millions of men and women and children are displaced. Let me be very 
clear: we do not do one-upsmanship in disasters. We do not diminish 
Haiti; we do not diminish the tsunami or the earthquake. What we are 
saying is that the disaster we speak of today is ongoing, as there are 
in other places around the world, but ongoing to the extent that people 
who want to help, to come in and help and be part of recovery, cannot 
get to where they need to be.

Moreover, flooding is expected to intensify as rains continue. In the 
Sindh and Punjab provinces, for example, earlier rainfall in the north 
has led to rising levels in the Indus River and is expected to coincide 
with increased rainfall.

The flood disaster, which started 2 months ago as a result of heavy 
monsoon rain, has left more than 20 million people suffering in the 
ravaged conditions. One-fifth of Pakistan is submerged in water, 
destroying critical infrastructure, schools, homes, hospitals, business 
and farms.

My heartfelt condolences go out to the families in Pakistan and those 
individuals here in the United States who have loved ones in the 
affected areas. I am urging our government to offer resources and 
expertise, including assistance and recovery efforts, to help our 
friends in Pakistan make it through this tragic episode.

We are now discussing how we provide new technology to decontaminate 
the water, and I hope that the State Department will receive the 
information that my office has to work on this new technology and 
literally carry it over to be able to decontaminate this water and to 
provide clean water to the refugee camps but also to those who may have 
been able to make it close to where their home was.

I have been working with the State Department to increase 
humanitarian relief funds for Pakistan and have asked for additional 
funds that have already been authorized for Pakistan to be reprogrammed 
in order to bolster relief and reconstruction efforts.

I again want to mention the Foreign Affairs Committee. I want to 
again mention our chairman and ranking member who have never stepped 
away from the international devastation that so many of our friends 
experience. The Foreign Affairs Committee has stood front and center to 
work with the Senate and work with the administration to ensure that 
the faith and the friendship of the United States is front and center 
on these terrible disasters. I thank the committee again.

I also wrote a letter to President Obama with Representative Dan 
Burton, my fellow cochair of the Congressional Pakistan Caucus, 
expressing our deep concern for the humanitarian tragedy in Pakistan 
and asking them to expedite the flow of U.S. aid, supplies and workers 
in the region.

I would like to take this opportunity to encourage the President to 
aid Pakistan and to add Pakistan to his trip to South Asia, which is 
planned for the fall, and hope that we could join with him.

Madam Speaker, the key is how do we find solutions, and I would ask 
that we as Americans not be defined, as small news postscripts suggest, 
that we are not contributing to the aid of the Pakistani people. First 
of all, we are moving emergency dollars, but I also hope that we can 
draw upon Americans' individual caring and humanitarian commitment so 
that we can send a mercy plane stocked with medicine and baby formula 
and clothing for children and school supplies in short order to this 
devastated region.

In Houston, a number of my constituents met as a part of the Pakistan 
Caucus to commit themselves to this great humanitarian effort, and we 
would call upon all who can hear my voice to participate in helping us 
pursue that. This


resolution is a very important statement that says to the American 
people and to our colleagues that we are supporting the people of 
Pakistan who need our help.

I do again want to acknowledge the partnership of the Congressional 
Pakistan Caucus and the Pakistani American Leadership Center that is 
bringing these Pakistan relief workers here to discuss the devastating 
conditions in Pakistan.

I also want to mention Ambassador Anne Patterson, who is still in 
Pakistan, who has been a stalwart of representation of the United 
States, who has been through the earthquake, who has been through the 
tragedy of the loss of Benazir Bhutto and now this unspeakable tragedy 
of flooding and has maintained the leadership of the United States.

I am very glad that we have this resolution on the floor of the 
House. I want to thank my friend and colleague who likewise has given a 
very important statement, as well as the gentleman from Georgia, to 
acknowledge this resolution to express our commitment to the people of 
Pakistan.

I look forward to visiting Pakistan to see firsthand the extent of 
the devastation and to assess and assist in the relief efforts. With 
the need for reconstruction and recovery efforts growing, I believe it 
is vital that we lead a congressional humanitarian mission to Pakistan, 
which will signal to those people that the friendship between the 
United States and Pakistan remains unbroken as we fight the war on 
terror and continue to hope to improve the lives of the men, women and 
children of this great nation.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1613, 
''Expressing condolences to and solidarity with the people of Pakistan 
in the aftermath of the devastating floods that began on July 22, 
2010.'' I would like to thank my colleague, Chairman Berman, for 
introducing this important and timely resolution.

On July 22, 2010, Pakistan experienced one of the heaviest monsoon 
rains in at least 80 years in the region. The massive amount of rain 
triggered both flash floods and river flooding throughout Pakistan, 
leading to widespread displacement, infrastructure damage and 
contamination of water sources. The flooding has caused a humanitarian 
crisis of unprecedented proportions that has affected over 20 million 
people, which aid agencies assert is a greater human impact than 
Pakistan's earthquake in 2005, the Indian Ocean tsunami of 2004, and 
the recent earthquake in Haiti combined. More than 1,750 people have 
been killed, 2,700 have been injured, and millions of men, women, and 
children are displaced. Moreover, the flooding is expected to intensify 
as rains continue. In Sindh and Punjab provinces, for example, earlier 
rainfall in the north has led to rising water levels in the Indus River 
and is expected to coincide with increased rainfall.

The flood disaster, which started two months ago as a result of heavy 
monsoon rain, has left more than 20 million people suffering in ravaged 
conditions. One fifth of Pakistan is submerged in water, destroying 
critical infrastructure, schools, homes, hospitals, businesses, and 
farms. My heartfelt condolences go out to the families in Pakistan and 
those individuals here in the United States who have loved ones in the 
affected areas. I am urging our government to offer any resources and 
expertise, including assistance with recovery efforts, to help our 
friends in Pakistan make it through this tragic episode. I have been 
working with the State Department to increase humanitarian relief funds 
for Pakistan and have asked for additional funds that have already been 
authorized for Pakistan to be reprogrammed in order to bolster relief 
and reconstruction efforts. I also wrote a letter to President Obama 
with Rep. Dan Burton, my fellow Co-Chair of the Congressional Pakistan 
Caucus, expressing our deep concern for the humanitarian tragedy in 
Pakistan and asking him to expedite the flow of U.S. aid, supplies, and 
workers into the region.

I would also like to take this opportunity to encourage President 
Obama to add Pakistan to his trip to South Asia, which is planned for 
this fall. In light of the recent devastation affecting Pakistan and 
our important alliance with Pakistan in our anti-terrorism efforts in 
both Pakistan and Afghanistan, I think President Obama's visit 
would communicate to both the people and government of Pakistan the 
extent of our national commitment to their welfare.


Madam Speaker, the scale of the devastation is so large that it will 
take months before we know the actual death toll and be able to assess 
the damage of the flood. Hospitals are overwhelmed with the injured and 
thousands of people are stuck on their rooftops and in higher areas as 
they try to escape rushing floodwaters. Thousands of victims require 
additional shelter with the cold weather approaching; falling 
temperatures, food shortages, and water-borne diseases are making it 
necessary for Pakistan to shelter, cloth, and feed the millions of 
displaced and homeless before freezing temperatures arrive.

As Co-Chair of the Congressional Pakistan Caucus, I am extremely 
concerned with the security of the region. It is critical that the 
United States offer the economic and humanitarian assistance necessary 
for Pakistan in its recovery efforts. In a region of political and 
religious turmoil, the United States must do all it can in order for 
Pakistan's fragile democracy to survive and thrive.

Furthermore, as Co-Chair of the Pakistani Caucus, I have taken the 
initiative to work with several Pakistani organizations and members of 
the Pakistan community in Houston and throughout the United States to 
increase awareness and coordinate relief efforts in Pakistan. I have 
organized meetings and briefings in both Houston and Washington, D.C. 
as well. This includes a photo exhibit that is occurring in the Rayburn 
House Office Building foyer today that is being hosted by the 
Congressional Pakistan Caucus and the Pakistani American Leadership 
Center (PAL-C) illustrating the extent of the damage caused by the 
floods in Pakistan. My commitment to the people of Pakistan is 
unwavering, and I look forward to visiting Pakistan soon to see 
firsthand the extent of the devastation and to assess and assist in the 
relief efforts. With the need for reconstruction and recovery efforts 
growing, I believe it is vital to lead a Congressional humanitarian 
mission to Pakistan, which will signal to the people and the nation of 
Pakistan the extent of our commitment to addressing the challenges they 
face in the recovery efforts.

















Congress of the United States,

















Washington, DC, September 8, 2010.


 Hon. Barack Obama,


 President of the United States of America, The White House, 




 Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. President: As co-chairs of the Congressional 


 Pakistan Caucus we remain deeply concerned about the 


 humanitarian tragedy unfolding in Pakistan due to the recent 


 historic floods. We respectfully ask you to do everything 


 possible within your authority to help expedite the flow of 


 U.S. and international aid supplies and workers into the 


 region.



 By all accounts, the flooding in Pakistan has now affected 


 more than 20 million people, which aid agencies say is a 


 greater human impact than Pakistan's earthquake in 2005, the 


 Indian Ocean tsunami of 2004, and the recent earthquake in 


 Haiti combined. Sadly, despite the commendable generosity of 


 the American people and the international community to date, 


 the situation appears to remain perilous. Reports indicate 


 that waterborne disease is rapidly spreading among tens of 


 thousands of flood victims. In addition, food shortages are 


 becoming a major concern as the market prices of essential 


 foods have skyrocketed after billions of dollars worth of 


 crops were destroyed by the flood waters.



 We commend the United States Agency for International 


 Development (USAID) for immediately undertaking an aid 


 mission to the region; however, we concur with John Holmes, 


 the UN Undersecretary General for Humanitarian Affairs' 


 opinion that ''these unprecedented floods pose unprecedented 


 logistical challenges, and this requires an extraordinary 


 effort by the international community.'' The United States 


 has an historic opportunity to reshape America's image in 


 Pakistan by taking the lead in aggressively addressing 


 Pakistan's immediate relief needs as well as forging 


 international consensus to address Pakistan's longer-term 


 reconstruction needs. For example, last year Congress 


 authorized $7.5 billion in civilian aid to Pakistan; of which 


 approximately $1 billion was set aside for democracy 


 building. While we strongly support efforts to strengthen 


 Pakistan's democratic institutions, relief and rehabilitation 


 of the floods victims is a more pressing need. Reprogramming 


 those funds for humanitarian relief would immediately 


 quadruple U.S. aid funds--hopefully spurring other nations to 


 follow suit--and it would do so at no additional cost to the 


 U.S. taxpayer.



 We also respectfully urge you to give all due consideration 


 to using the power of the Presidency's bully pulpit to 


 highlight the plight of Pakistanis to the U.S media and 


 encourage Americans to consider donating to the relief 


 effort. The American people are extremely generous. Time and 


 time again, whenever they have been asked, the American 


 people have rallied to help people around the world. We are 


 confident that the American people will once again 


 demonstrate their generosity by donating to the Pakistani 


 relief efforts if they are made more aware of the tragedy; 


 and a statement from the White House is certain to garner 


 such media attention. To that end, we respectfully ask you to 


 consider making a public appeal to the American public on 


 behalf of the people of Pakistan.



 Mr. President, the global fight against extremists who 


 exploit the religion of Islam is not only a military struggle 


 but a struggle to win the hearts and minds of the Muslim 


 world; particularly the young people. We




 know that the U.S. response to the 2005 earthquake in 


 Pakistan led to a short-term positive increase in public 


 opinion of the United States in Pakistan. A significant and 


 long-term commitment by the United States to help Pakistan 


 recover from these devastating floods could have an even more 


 profound affect. If we do not seize this opportunity we 


 significantly increase the chances that Pakistan may fall 


 under the influence of extremist elements; that would be 


 disastrous for our future security. We must address the human 


 tragedy unfolding in Pakistan now before it is too late. So 


 once again, we respectfully ask you to everything possible 


 within your authority to help expedite the flow of U.S. and 


 international aide supplies and workers into the region.



 We thank you for giving your personal time and attention to 


 this critically important matter.





 Sincerely,


 Dan Burton,



 Member of Congress.


 Sheila Jackson Lee,



 Member of Congress.


I reserve the balance of my time.