# SCHEDULE
## `4ba7719a75a689c8a1fa647954499022`
`Mr. REID â€” 12 September 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, fortunately, this morning, we are going to 
conclude action on this Transportation appropriations bill, which is so 
vitally important to this country.

Through the hard work last night of the managers, Senators Murray and 
Bond, the last remaining amendments will be disposed of this morning. 
Those are an amendment by Senator DeMint, amendments by Senator Coburn, 
and then final passage. There is a period of 20 minutes of debate with 
respect to the DeMint amendment and then a rollcall vote following the 
DeMint amendment, if the participants so desire, and then there will be 
2 minutes of debate on the Coburn amendments. So Members should be 
prepared to vote around 9:25. There will be three rollcall votes--
DeMint, Coburn, and then final passage. They will be the only votes 
today.

When Members return next week, there will be no rollcall votes on 
Monday, September 17, as I had previously announced a long time ago. 
But on Tuesday, we may have votes in the morning. I haven't worked that 
out yet with the distinguished Republican leader. We do have some 
things we have to try to dispose of prior to moving to the Defense 
authorization bill.

Maybe today, if not on Monday next, we will have a consent agreement 
regarding how we are going to move forward on the Iraq amendments and 
the Defense authorization bill. So next week will be an action-packed 
week. We have the Jewish holiday--we have Yom Kippur--which will begin 
next Friday, 9 days from now, at sundown. That being the case, we will 
have no votes after 1 o'clock on Friday next.
