# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `4d784828068c44b904841fff4cc592eb`
`Mr. BAIRD â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, every member of this Congress, every member, 
regardless of political party, and regardless of their position on this 
war, or the resolution before us now, is equally committed to the 
security of this nation, our communities, and our families. And I 
believe every member of this Congress supports our troops and their 
families while they


are deployed. We must all support our veterans and their families when 
they return home.

Since this war began, I have attended, as many of my colleagues have, 
deployment ceremonies as we send the troops off to fight. I have been 
on the tarmac in the cold and dark mornings when they've come home to 
their families. I have been many times to Walter Reed to visit the 
wounded. I have been to funerals for the fallen and held the hands of 
loved ones left behind.

Over the past weeks, months, and in the years since this conflict 
began, I have heard from constituents on all sides of this issue, 
including members of our armed forces who have served or are now 
serving in Iraq. Some of our troops support the war in Iraq, others 
oppose it, some support an increase, others don't. To suggest that 
opposing the President's planned escalation means not supporting the 
troops would imply that many of the troops themselves and many of their 
loved ones back home don't support the troops. That suggestion simply 
makes no sense and we should put it to rest for good.

The real question today is not whether or not we are committed to 
security, or whether or not we support the troops. The real question is 
how we believe protecting security is best achieved. On that, there is 
legitimate disagreement, which is, or should be, what this debate is 
about. To have that debate is not only a right, but a responsibility of 
the elected representatives in a republic such as ours. Indeed, it is 
to defend that very right that our troops are being asked to serve and 
sacrifice not just in Iraq, but around the world.

I saw the Pentagon explode from my office window on September 11th. 
We all knew that thousands of our fellow citizens were dying before our 
eyes and I was worried about the safety of my own family. None of us 
need to be reminded through floor speeches or Presidential homilies 
about the threat of terrorism. But let us also not forget that the 
terrorists of that day did not come from Iraq. And let no one forget 
that, with only one exception, the entire House of Representatives, 
Democrats and Republicans alike, all voted to authorize the use of 
force to destroy the Al Qaeda bases and the Taliban who harbored them 
in Afghanistan. That is where the terrorists of September 11th were 
based, that is where the central focus of the fight against terrorists 
was focused, and we were united, along with virtually the entire world, 
in that fight.

Iraq is different, and the focus on Iraq has distracted and detracted 
from the mission in Afghanistan and the real battle against terrorists. 
Administration suggestions aside, none of the terrorists of September 
11th came from, or were trained in Iraq, and there were no weapons of 
mass destruction.

President Bush and the rest of the administration took this Nation 
into an unnecessary and ill conceived war based on false threats and 
with a deeply flawed plan. Our soldiers, their families, our economy, 
our overall military readiness, the Iraqi people, friends in the 
region, and our coalition partners, have all suffered as a result of 
the administration's misinformation and miscalculations.

Before this war, I, and many others, asked the administration to 
answer fundamental questions. How many troops will this take? How many 
lives will be sacrificed? How long will we be there? What will it cost 
financially? How will we pay for it? How will you manage internal 
conflicts among the Iraqi's themselves? What will be the impact on our 
overall security elsewhere in the world?

The fact is this administration has never answered any of those 
fundamental questions honestly or fully. Never. Either they knew the 
answers and refused to give them, or they did not know and went ahead 
anyway. If the first is true, they were being dishonest. If the second 
is true, they were incompetent. Sadly, it appears likely that both 
incompetence and duplicity were at work.

Unfortunately, very little has changed since this war began. As we 
consider the proposed escalation of the occupation in Iraq, none of the 
most important questions has been answered.

I voted against this war from the outset and believe to this day that 
was the right vote. But once we were committed and engaged, I believed, 
as most of my colleagues and most Americans, that we had a 
responsibility to support the troops and try our best to help the 
Iraqis rebuild their nation, establish a democratic republic, and try 
to restore stability. I, along with most members of this Congress, 
voted repeatedly to provide our troops the needed resources to succeed, 
and I fervently hoped the mission would be successful. To a degree, 
there have been successes. We determined there were no weapons of mass 
destruction. Saddam Hussein has been removed from power, and is now 
dead as a result of a public and open judicial process. There have been 
free and open elections, and Iraq has a constitution and elected 
government.

Those are good things. But the costs have been horrific and the key 
questions still have never been, perhaps cannot be, answered by this 
Administration. As we consider the President's latest proposal we must 
ask again: How many more lives? How much more will this cost? How will 
we pay for this? What will it do to the rest of our security 
internationally and at home?

Because these questions are at the core of whether or not this policy 
will enhance or jeopardize our troops and our security, and because the 
administration to this day is unwilling or incapable of answering these 
basic questions honestly, I must vote in favor of this resolution, and 
oppose further troop increases.

It is irresponsible to allow a commander in chief, who has not been 
honest or accurate from the outset, to continue sacrificing the lives, 
bodies and families of our troops to a mission that lacks a clear 
objective or any foreseeable endpoint.

It is recklessly dangerous to permit a commander in chief to 
jeopardize our nation's security by letting our military equipment, 
readiness and troop morale continue to decline. It is shortsighted and 
unwise to leave our National Guard and Reserve unprepared and under-
equipped to respond to other challenges or crises abroad or within our 
own borders. It is wasteful and foolhardy to build the largest embassy 
in the world in this very small nation. It is dangerous and 
strategically unsound to concentrate more of our intelligence assets in 
this one city, leaving the rest of the world and other dangerous 
threats less covered. It is unsustainable for our economy to keep 
pouring out money, forgoing needed investments at home, and piling debt 
onto our children with no real plan to pay for it, and no real end in 
sight. It is a breach of trust to not provide the needed services for 
our veterans and their families when they return home. It is irrational 
and inaccurate to believe that securing Iraq is the real key to keeping 
our nation safe from terror, or that if we withdraw from Iraq the only 
possible outcome is for our nation to be more vulnerable. It is immoral 
to leave our soldiers dying and bleeding in the middle of a centuries 
old religious conflict that is not of our creation and is not within 
our power or responsibility to resolve.

For far too long we have given this President far too much 
credibility, far too much power, far too many lives and far too much 
money. It is time to stop.

Having said how I will vote, the sad but simple truth is this, 
neither moving forward with the President's proposed troop increase, 
nor voting for this resolution of disapproval, will really do what is 
needed to secure our own nation, solve the problems in Iraq or bring 
real stability to the region. There are, in fact, better alternatives 
to the administration proposal and those of us who oppose the 
President's plan should spell out what we think is the better course.

This is where I believe that better course should take us:

1. We must renew our focus on securing and rebuilding Afghanistan and 
increase both troop strength and financial investment in that nation 
along with our allied partners. The fight in Afghanistan was the real 
and most important fight against the terrorists of September 11th. It 
was justified from the beginning and remains just today, and it has the 
support of the world. We cannot let the Taliban regroup and reinstate 
their reign of terror and extremism there and we still have a chance, 
though it is slipping fast, to help the Afghanis establish a 
successful, tolerant and secure nation.

2. In Iraq, the administration should meet confidentially with the 
Iraqi leaders and give them a timeline with key benchmarks by which our 
forces will withdraw. The timeline and benchmarks should be sufficient 
to ensure the safety or our forces and give the elected Iraqi 
government a reasonable time to train their forces and strengthen their 
political processes, but there must be a timeline so there is real 
pressure for real progress. The process of conveying this information 
and the timeline itself should be confidential. The elected Iraqi 
government should then announce that it is they who are asking us to 
begin withdrawal, thereby strengthening their credibility and 
leadership while giving our nation a graceful way to exit at their 
request. Frankly, this should have been done by the administration 
before the Iraq Study Group report and before this debate in Congress, 
but it is still not too late.

3. While beginning a measured and strategic redeployment of our 
forces from Iraq, we should increase our support for infrastructure 
repair and shift increasing responsibility for that effort to Iraqi 
companies and workers and away from foreign contractors.

We should, however, maintain close oversight of the spending to 
ensure the resources are being used as intended and we should link 
continued financial support to real political and security progress on 
the part of the Iraqis. Further, we should prevail upon wealthy 
neighbors in the region, notably the Saudi Arabians and others, to 
expend some of their own vast funds to enhance the infrastructure 
effort. We should also dramatically reduce the size of the


embassy complex that is now under construction in Baghdad and we should 
pledge to no permanent U.S. bases in Iraq.

4. To help fund the infrastructure and security activities within 
Iraq, and to give every Iraqi a stake in the success of their political 
process. An equitable means of distributing oil revenues should be 
created that ensures all Iraqis will benefit from the oil resources 
and, simultaneously, that all Iraqis will lose economically if 
insurgents damage those resources.

5. We should encourage the Iraqis to work more closely with moderate 
Arab neighbors, notably Jordan, Egypt and others in the region to help 
with the training of the security forces and with the reconstruction 
effort. This assistance has been offered since the beginning of the 
conflict but the Iraqis have not taken advantage of that offer to any 
real degree as of yet.

6. Because the Iraq conflict has had a devastating and destabilizing 
economic, political and social impact on friendly and moderate nations 
such as Jordan, Egypt and others, we should provide additional 
financial aid to those nations, particularly to help them deal with the 
influx of refugees, the high costs of energy, reductions in trade and 
tourism, and other adverse impacts. We cannot leave our friends to 
suffer from this conflict, and we dare not let the instability spread 
to nations that have been models of change and moderation.

7. We must also reach out once again to our traditional allies in 
Europe, Asia and elsewhere in the world, openly acknowledge past 
mistakes, spell out this new direction, and ask for their financial, 
diplomatic, and, if necessary, military help in making it succeed.

8. While supporting and working with friendly and moderate nations in 
the region and elsewhere, we should engage in direct discussions and 
negotiations with other nations in the region, notably Iran and Syria. 
We disagree profoundly with these nations on many issues, and we must 
not be naive or overly optimistic, but it is in our best interests to 
at least engage in a dialogue and search for areas where we may find 
common ground. The administration's refusal to do this, even through 
back channels, is misguided and counterproductive.

9. It is dishonest to not include the full costs of this war and the 
associated increases in defense spending as part of the annual budget 
and deficit projections. We must at last fully account for the costs of 
this war and fully fund our commitment to veterans when they return.

10. Our focus on the Iraq situation should not cause us to lose 
sight, as it has for too long, of the real goal, which is promoting 
broad security, stability and moderation in the region for the sake of 
that region itself and in the interest of our own security. Even if we 
could fully secure Iraq with this surge of troops, which is highly 
doubtful, if we do not improve our overall image and relationships in 
the region and the world, and if we do not do more to support moderate 
and friendly nations, we will see continued and worsening threats from 
extremist groups and rogue nations.

A key part of this effort will be playing a constructive role in 
working to resolve the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians. 
We also have important and necessary work to do to improve our image 
and relationships within our own hemisphere and we must not ignore or 
neglect that work.

11. Finally, but importantly, for far too long our energy policy and 
dependence on petroleum has distorted our foreign policy and thereby 
endangered our national security, our economy, and our environment. We 
must recognize that energy policy is coupled with national security and 
we must change both policies or we will never have real and lasting 
security.

I urge my colleagues to consider this course, but before I conclude, 
I must respond to those who suggest that if we do not give 
unquestioning support to this administration regardless of what they 
ask for, regardless of history, and regardless of the evidence on the 
ground, we are somehow empowering the terrorists or undermining our 
troops. The President himself has implied that any questioning of his 
policies is ''politically motivated'' and anything short of further 
escalation is sending a message that our Nation will ''cut and run'' 
when things get tough.

I believe the evidence suggests the opposite. The evidence from this 
war is clear, while there may be differences of opinion about policy, 
this Congress, and the American people have, and will continue to 
support our troops to the fullest. The evidence is also clear that our 
troops will serve valiantly and effectively whenever and wherever they 
are called.

For the elected representatives of the people of this great nation to 
exercise their constitutional responsibility and demand change is not a 
sign of weakness, it is a sign of the strength of our own republic. 
Perhaps more importantly, it is a sign of the strength of our very form 
of government itself, which is, after all, what we are hoping to 
promote in Iraq and elsewhere in the world. The rest of the world, our 
allies and adversaries alike, understand this and understand that the 
strength, character, courage and commitment of this Nation, its people, 
and the Congress are separate from, and stronger than the flaws, and 
mistakes of any one President or administration.

We are not turning away from the fight against terrorists or 
terrorism by changing course in Iraq. We are changing the course of a 
strategy that has been wrong from the beginning and has not gotten 
better. Our Nation, our Armed Forces, and our Congress are fully 
willing to sustain a tough fight when the fight is right and the 
strategy is sound. But our republic, our people, and this Congress are 
also strong enough, wise enough and courageous enough, to recognize the 
truth and change direction when the time comes. That time is now.