# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `4d8780dd11da41681d6eaa8b91eb98c6`
`Mr. HARKIN â€” 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join with the 
distinguished Senator from Oregon, Senator Smith, to introduce the 
Heroes Helping Heroes Act, to expand the availability of peer support 
programs for veterans.

As our military personnel return from combat, they face daunting 
challenges in transitioning back to civilian life. They have to deal 
with family issues arising from their long absence from home. They have 
to find new employment. They also have to cope with separation from 
their close friends. After spending many months if not years with the 
men and women in their unit--sharing intense wartime experiences and 
looking out for each other--they may not find that same close support 
when they return.

In addition, many members of our Armed Forces have endured tremendous 
stress during combat, which can trigger severe mental health issues 
after they have returned home. Research shows that one in three 
veterans of the war in Iraq, and one in nine veterans of the war in 
Afghanistan, are coping with a serious mental health problem, including 
depression, substance abuse, and/or post-traumatic stress disorder 
(PTSD). Untreated and under-treated stress exposure for soldiers 
results in a higher incidence of suicide, higher divorce rates, and 
higher rates of drug or alcohol abuse. Additionally, there have been 
almost 25,000 non-fatal American casualties. Such injuries often have 
serious impacts on the ability of transitioning veterans to reintegrate 
into their home and community life.

Currently, VA facilities are overwhelmed by the sheer number of 
veterans who need assistance. The Government Accountability Office 
(GAO) reported that many VA medical facilities are unprepared to care 
for the mental health needs of the number of veterans who will need 
services. Peer support approaches offer a low-cost and effective 
supplement to traditional services by allowing veterans to help each 
other. In peer support programs, transitioning veterans can talk to 
someone who had similar experiences and understands what they are going 
through. Veteran peer counselors who are trained to provide support and 
refer for services when necessary can provide outreach to other 
veterans and assist in a smooth transition back to civilian life.

The Heroes Helping Heroes program will allow veterans' service 
organizations to develop or expand peer support programs. Veterans' 
service organizations and other non-profits that serve veterans are 
well-equipped to provide such peer support programs. Given that the VA 
is stretched to capacity, these organizations are able to run such 
programs in addition to mental health services provided by professional 
counselors.

The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration (SAMSHA) 
and the President's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health have 
recognized peer support approaches as an emerging best practice in 
helping people to recover from traumatic events. Research has found 
that peer support programs are effective in alleviating PTSD symptoms 
and depression, reducing the likelihood of hospitalization, and 
increasing social support.

When members of our Armed Forces come home from war, this does not 
necessarily mean that the war is over for them. Many continue to carry 
physical and psychological wounds and scars. We have a profound moral 
contract to care for those who have fought for our country and 
sacrificed so much. One additional way to make good on that contract in 
a cost-effective way is to expand the availability peer support 
programs nationwide. To that end, I urge my colleagues to join with 
Senator Smith and me in sponsoring the Heroes Helping Heroes Act.