# ENHANCED PARTNERSHIP WITH PAKISTAN ACT OF 2009
## `4de5ec6aea17f9a7953758c8ce6780a9`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington â€” 30 September 2009`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. I rise in support of this legislation.

I want to thank Chairman Berman and Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen for 
their hard work in crafting this compromise and getting a bill that the 
House and Senate can agree on.

We need to strengthen our relationship with Pakistan. This is a very, 
very difficult part of the world, and this is a very, very difficult 
relationship. But none of that overcomes the basic fact that we need a 
strong relationship with Pakistan for our own national security 
interests. The threat is real, as has been described by a large number 
of my colleagues. The threat from Islamic extremism, through al Qaeda 
and other groups, comes from this region in large part through al 
Qaeda, in large part through the Taliban, and threatens us.

To defeat that, we need partners in the region. We need a partner in 
Afghanistan. We need a partner in Pakistan. And the good news is 
Pakistan is taking steps in the right direction. As has been mentioned, 
they have stepped up and confronted the violent extremists that 
threatened them and pushed back against them. They are working with us 
to train their forces in counterinsurgency tactics so they can better


do this, and they have also taken the first basic steps in getting a 
lasting democracy in place. This has been a lengthy challenge for them 
as they have dealt with governance and economic issues, but they have 
made progress.

They need our help to build on that progress, because if they cannot 
provide a decent government, a decent governance, it makes it all too 
easy for the violent extremists to prey on their failures and recruit 
Pakistanis to their cause. With our support, they can build a better 
economy. They can build the basics of government to provide for their 
people. Without it, they're going have a very, very difficult time 
accomplishing that task. That will be a threat to the region and that 
will be a threat to us.

This bill shows a commitment from the United States to a long-term 
relationship. For too long, the Pakistanis have felt that we only used 
them for our own interests and then walked away and have been reluctant 
to embrace us, reluctant in some ways to confront the Taliban for fear 
that we will not be there to help them when it is truly needed.

This bill shows the long-term commitment to the partnership that we 
must have with a Pakistani Government that seems increasingly willing 
to have that partnership.

I urge support for this legislation.