# HONORING MILITARY SUPPORT GROUPS
## `4e0418c8922bf9a907240e75fbae9747`
`Mr. COLE of Oklahoma â€” 15 September 2008`

---


Mr. COLE of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Let me begin on a personal note. I just want to say what a great 
pleasure it is for me, Mr. Speaker, to manage this bill and the series 
of bills with my good friend from Guam whom I sit on the House Armed 
Services Committee with and the Natural Resources Committee with and 
whom I've been to Iraq three times with. I know of nobody that cares 
more about our military and men and women in uniform than my good 
friend from Guam, so it's wonderful to be with her in this particular 
venue today.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 1200, a 
resolution authored by Congresswoman Betty Sutton of Ohio. This 
resolution commends a large group of selfless and dedicated people, 
many of whom are volunteers, in organizations that provide support to 
the families and children of the deployed members of the Armed Forces, 
as well as to servicemembers themselves.

Our military families face extraordinary demands and stresses, Mr. 
Speaker, and challenges related to the service of their loved ones. To 
ease these burdens, military support groups provide a variety of 
crucial services ranging from financial and employment assistance to 
counseling and community support.

These military support groups take on various forms, whether they be 
Federal, State and local government efforts, or whether they are the 
many nonprofit, charitable and private efforts that have continuously 
and unselfishly supported the members of our Armed Forces and their 
families ever since September 11, 2001.

Among the approximately 1.8 million family members of the 1.3 million 
active duty personnel, the needs are many and supporting those needs is 
a matter of military readiness.

The support challenge is made more complex because virtually all the 
families of the National Guard troops and reservists reside in civilian 
communities spread across this Nation. Yet numerous agencies, Mr. 
Speaker, and groups have taken on the challenge to provide help and 
support, particularly during extended periods of mobilization and 
deployment.

Our military forces could not have sustained the stress of repeated 
deployments and combat without the outstanding assistance, dedication 
and outstanding work over the years of these military support groups.

Let me add on a personal note, if I may, Mr. Speaker, my grandfather 
and father were both career military personnel. And like many people in 
this Chamber, I have many members of my family, uncles, cousins, my own 
brother, who served at various points in the military. All of them 
would tell you that they have received valuable support for both 
themselves and their families repeatedly from private and charitable 
groups that are designed to support the men and women that wear the 
uniform of the United States. Our citizens do that, not simply because 
it's the expedient thing to do, but because it's the right thing to do, 
and it's an expression of the appreciation of the American people for 
the men and women who sacrifice to defend them that these sorts of 
contributions take place. Today's resolution is a fitting way to 
celebrate and thank such organizations.

I urge my colleagues to support House Resolution 1200.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.