# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `4e20a23c1b67894cd5c702103ae158c6`
`Mr. ELLISON â€” 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Madam Chair, I rise today in strong support of the 
Progressive budget, and I want to thank our leadership in the 
Progressive Caucus for pulling the budget together. Though I do plan on 
supporting the House Democratic budget resolution, I believe that our 
Progressive budget differs in two important ways, and that's why I urge 
my colleagues to support the Progressive budget.

First, the Progressive alternative fully funds President Obama's 
international affairs request--Function 150 account. I believe robust 
funding for international affairs, which covers funds to combat HIV, 
tuberculosis and malaria as well as funding to help reconstruction in 
Afghanistan, is critical to our Nation's public diplomacy.

Our country has a unique opportunity to rebuild alliances across the 
globe, and we need to meet our foreign policy challenges in the 21st 
century. To accomplish this task, our country and this Congress must 
demonstrate a strong commitment to funding international aid.

Second, the Progressive Caucus budget embraces President Obama's 
commitment to retire Cold War weapons systems, and the Progressive 
budget goes further than the House Democratic budget in cutting defense 
spending. The Progressive budget reduces wasteful spending that, 
according to the GAO, costs taxpayers $8.7 billion a year. The 
Progressive Caucus budget also eliminates unnecessary and obsolete Cold 
War weapons systems, saving taxpayers $60 billion a year. I know my 
Republican colleagues are in favor of cutting those wasteful programs.