# None
## `4ee118d3571fe890eacfc44737268147`
`Mr. ROSS â€” 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, we have heard a lot of talk, a lot of rhetoric 
about energy. We have heard a lot of partisan talk about energy.

You know, Congress has never been in session in August, in recent 
memory. It is a traditional district work period. And all the 
Republicans that complained about Congress adjourning for August, as it 
does each August, if the truth be known, if you were to look at their 
schedule, they had public events scheduled throughout their district in 
August. Why? Because they knew that Congress is traditionally not in 
session in August.

And, quite frankly, Mr. Speaker, if we had stayed on the floor the 
whole month of August, we would be hearing a lot of the stuff we are 
hearing tonight. We would be hearing all this partisan bickering about 
energy. But instead, all 435 Members of Congress went back home to 
their respective districts during the month of August. And if you 
listen to the national press, it sounds like we were all laid up on the 
beach somewhere for 5 weeks.

The fact is, most Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle did 
what I did; I began the break by making a trip to Iraq to visit the 
3,000 members of the Arkansas National Guard. Regardless of how we feel 
about what is going on in Iraq and what we should or should not be 
doing, it is important, not as Democrats and Republicans, but as 
Americans, that we remain united in support of our men and women in 
uniform.

So I made the trip to Iraq to visit the 3,000 members of the Arkansas 
National Guard. It is their second deployment in 33 months. They have 
gone above and beyond what has been asked of them. When that National 
Guard recruiter showed up, they said, ''Sign here, son, and the most 
you will be out of the country is once every 5 years.'' This is the 
Arkansas National Guard 39th Brigade's second deployment in 33 months. 
And I felt like the least I could do is make the trip to Iraq, let them 
know we support them, thank them for their service, and to make sure 
that some of the $16 million an hour of your tax money that is going to 
Iraq is being spent on the equipment and supplies that they need.

Then I came home to Arkansas, and during the month of August I 
visited something like 40 towns across my district. Most Members of 
Congress did the same thing during August; they were visiting their 
constituents. And if they did, I am sure, like me, they got an earful 
about the high price of gasoline. And I can assure you, Mr. Speaker, 
Members of Congress going home to their districts and getting an earful 
on high gasoline prices will go a lot further toward getting a 
commonsense energy bill passed on the floor of the United States House 
of Representatives than having all of us sit here and fight and bicker 
and act like a bunch of school-aged kids for a month.

And because we were home in our districts in August and because we 
did get an earful, I predict that we will see a commonsense energy bill 
passed on the floor of the House this month. The question is whether 
the Republicans really want to pass an energy bill, or whether they 
just want to try and blame the Democrats. The irony of this is they 
have been in control of this for the last 6 years of the White House, 
House, and Senate. And during that time, of course, I don't have to 
tell anyone what has happened with the price of gasoline.

So this month, I predict, on the floor of the House the Republican 
Members of this body will have an opportunity to help pass a 
bipartisan, commonsense energy bill. The question is, will they do 
that, or will they not do it and try to continue to use this issue and 
the American people as a political football?

I can tell you that people in my district, they work hard, they get 
up, they go to work, they work hard for a living, and many of them live 
in rural areas and they travel great distances to and from work and 
they are sick and tired of being a political football. They don't see 
this as a Democrat or a Republican energy crisis. They see it, as I do, 
as an American energy crisis.

Here is what I do know. When I was born in 1961, our Nation was 19 
percent dependent on foreign oil. By the time I graduated from high 
school in 1979, we were 45 percent dependent on foreign oil. We are now 
approaching 70 percent dependency on foreign oil.

Mr. Speaker, when we go to the gas pump and when we tank up, we are 
indirectly putting money in the hands of the terrorists who want to 
harm us. That does not make any sense at all.

Here is what else I know. There is going to be 100 million new cars 
on the road in the next 8 years. 100 million new cars on the road in 
the next 8 years; not here; in China and India. And I don't care who 
tells you what, no President, no Member of Congress can change the 
expansion of the middle class in China and India or anywhere else in 
the world.

The second thing that I want to point out is 3 weeks ago Kurdish 
rebels went into Turkey and blew up an oil pipeline, halfway around the 
world, and yet the next day in South Arkansas we were paying more per 
gallon of gasoline. No President, no Member of Congress can do anything 
about that.

We can't change world demand and world circumstances, but I will tell 
you what we can change. We can change our domestic supply here at home. 
And that is why a number of us that are Democrats believe that we have 
got to drill here at home.

The Republicans say, drill and your problems are solved. Not so. The 
fact is, that because demand is going to continue to increase, if we do 
all the alternatives and renewables that are in the science lab today 
and bring them to the marketplace, our oil needs will still be just as 
great in 20 years as they are today because the demand is going to 
continue to increase.

So some say drill and your problems are solved. They are not leveling 
with you. Others say do alternative renewable fuels and your problems 
are solved. They are not leveling with you, either, Mr. Speaker. I 
contend it is going to take all of these things. And I have a plan to 
accomplish that. It is called the American-Made Energy Act, and here is 
how it works.


Number one, to get us the oil we need short term we drill here at 
home in ANWR, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. It is real 
controversial with some, and I understand that. The truth is, there is 
19 million acres in ANWR, and using new technology we only need 2,000 
acres out of the 19 million to recover the oil we need. 19 million 
acres in ANWR at issue; the land area we need in order to drill and 
recover the oil that is there is 2,000 acres. Put it another way, one-
sixth the size of the airport near Washington, D.C.

We need to drill off the coast. We need to drill where it makes 
sense, in the 48 continental United States, not using 1940 or 1950 
technology, not even 1990 technology. My bill says that we will do it 
utilizing 21st century technology that can allow us to recover the oil 
we need and be good stewards of the environment all at the same time.

Here is what else it does. It generates $80 billion in lease and 
royalty payments to our government. $80 billion. When President Kennedy 
set out to put a man on the moon, in today's dollars it was a $90 
billion investment, and we did a lot more than put a man on the moon. 
We grew a new generation of innovators in this country that went on to 
create many of the jobs and technologies that we enjoy today.

You contrast that with energy. Everybody is talking about alternative 
and renewable fuels, but the truth is we will spend more money in Iraq 
in the next 10 days than we will spend this year on research and 
development of new and exciting alternative and renewable forms of 
energy, and that is wrong.

I want to take the revenue from the lease and royalty payments, $80 
billion, and I want to put every dime of it into making a President 
Kennedy ''let's go to the moon'' size investment in alternative and 
renewable fuels.

We can take automobiles that run on gas and run them on natural gas. 
We have a lot of natural gas in America. We have a plentiful supply of 
natural gas, and new areas are being found all the time. In Arkansas 
now we have got something called the Fayetteville Shale, and a lot of 
people who used to not have very much are now finding


themselves in the middle-class or even better. A lot of poor farmers, a 
lot of poor working families are now discovering some wealth because of 
the Fayetteville Shale, which is where they are recovering natural gas.

Now, not too long ago, they didn't know it existed. And then they 
knew it existed, but they didn't have the technology to recover it. And 
then they had the technology to recover it, but it was too costly. And 
then the price of natural gas went up, and, guess what. Now we are 
seeing this great explosion of this natural gas find in Arkansas known 
as the Fayetteville Shale. There is another one in Louisiana. They are 
both going to rival what is known as the Barnett Shale in Texas.

New and exciting technologies are allowing us to possibly move to 
natural gas powered cars. Biofuels, ethanol, cellulosic ethanol where 
we take the treetops and the tree limbs, add value to the land owner, 
and we can turn them into ethanol. The first ever cellulosic ethanol 
plant is being built right now in Georgia. The people building it I 
recently had on the panel when I hosted the first ever Arkansas 
Biofuels Conference at the University of Arkansas at Monticello, a 
forestry school located within my district.

Batteries, a lot of promise with batteries. Now, battery powered 
cars, plug-in electric cars probably won't make a lot of sense for 
those of us in rural areas. Last Thursday, I traveled 450 miles in my 
district. I represent about half of Arkansas. That is a lot of miles. 
Obviously, plug-in and battery powered doesn't make sense for a lot of 
folks that live in rural areas and drive 20 or even 50 miles each way 
to and from work. But you know what? For those folks in the urban 
areas, for those folks where we have a lot of people living, if we can 
transition them into battery and plug-in electric cars where they spend 
an hour getting 6 miles to work each day, that will reduce our Nation's 
need for oil and, therefore, it will reduce the price that we pay at 
the pump in areas where we will continue to have automobiles that run 
on gasoline, which comes from oil.

There is a lot of promise. Hydrogen fuel cell. I have test driven a 
hydrogen fuel cell car. It sounds like an electric golf cart, it runs 
like a regular car, and no pollution. And when you stop, if you take an 
empty cup and run to the tailpipe in time, it will pour you a half a 
cup of water that you can drink. This is not Star Wars stuff. This is 
not stuff that is even in the science lab anymore. These are ideas that 
are out of the science lab and ready for the marketplace. The problem 
is, we do not have an energy policy in this country that embraces them.

So that is what my plan does; it drills, it gives us the oil we need 
short term; it reduces the price we pay at the pump; it makes a 
President Kennedy ''let's go to the moon'' size investment in 
alternative and renewable fuels that can create hundreds of thousands 
of new jobs here at home.

Ironically, high gas prices helped get us in this economic recession, 
and having a President Kennedy ''let's go to the moon'' size investment 
in alternative and renewable energy, growing a new generation of energy 
innovators in this country can also help get us out of this recession. 
I call it my Common Sense Energy Plan for America's Future. And I am 
going to talk more about it a little bit later this evening, because we 
don't just address the high price of gasoline, we also address 
electricity. Because I can tell you, we have a gasoline and diesel 
crisis today, but we are going to have an electricity crisis as early 
as 2030, and it is going to be far greater and much worse than the 
gasoline crisis we have today, and my bill speaks to that. It is H.R. 
5437, the American-Made Energy Act, and we are going to talk about it 
in more detail a little bit later this evening.

But at this time, I have got a number of Democrats that have joined 
me that are for new energy, they are for drilling, they are for 
alternatives, they are for renewables. They are for American-made 
energy. Again, this is not a Republican or a Democratic energy crisis, 
it is an American energy crisis, and we are here to say that we want to 
make a difference.

I am pleased at this time to introduce my good friend, my colleague 
from California, the Honorable Jim Costa.