# None
## `4ffd13a079ffbe647fc532e9719d5461`
`Mr. HINCHEY â€” 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. HINCHEY. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment that will ensure that 
the Department of Defense supports the growing domestic solar energy 
industry. The Department of Defense, as we know, is the largest 
consumer of energy on this planet. Fortunately, the Pentagon is 
beginning to more fully understand just how important energy is to our 
national security. As the Department purchases solar panels to address 
very serious energy security concerns at defense installations around 
our country, we must ensure that those purchases support American 
renewable energy manufacturing jobs rather than those at other 
companies in other countries.

The Buy American Act requires products purchased directly by the 
Federal Government to contain at least 50 percent American content. 
This amendment applies the Buy American Act to the procurement of solar 
panels purchased indirectly by the Department through subcontracts such 
as Energy Savings Performance Contracts, land leases, and utility 
service contracts. Establishing real energy security at our defense 
installations is critical to our national security.

This amendment is a commonsense approach to ensuring that, as the 
Department makes key investments in renewable energy, American 
manufacturing jobs are supported and increased.

I urge the support of my colleagues, and I express my deep gratitude 
to Chairman Skelton for his steadfast support for our national defense.

My second amendment will help strengthen our Nation's oversight over 
armed security contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan and eliminate a tax 
loophole that has been used by the defense contractor Blackwater. For 
too long, the private armies of defense contractors have undermined our 
Nation's


mission in Afghanistan and Iraq through the conduct of their personnel.

The key to American success is the ability of U.S. forces to win 
support from the Afghan and Iraqi people, many of whom do not 
distinguish between armed security contractors and the U.S. military. 
For this reason, every time a contractor kills or injures innocent 
civilians, the very people we seek to protect, it is a devastating blow 
to our country's strategy to protect the local population.

Let us recall one example. On May 5 of last year, two independent 
contractors working for Paravant, a Blackwater front company, fired 
their weapons, killing two Afghan civilians and wounding a third. 
Adding insult to injury by classifying workers in Iraq as independent 
contractors rather than employees, Blackwater appears to have avoided 
at least $31 million in employment-related taxes.

This amendment, sponsored by myself and Schakowsky and Moran, is an 
amendment that requires armed private security contractors who are 
using U.S. citizens in Iraq or Afghanistan to hire those individuals as 
direct employees rather than independent contractors. The amendment is 
narrow and it is focused. It applies only to U.S. citizens who are 
required to have security clearances for armed security contracts in 
Iraq or Afghanistan. The amendment also contains a national security 
waiver provision.

This amendment will help close the door on a tax loophole and ensure 
contractors have full responsibility and better oversight over 
employees. I urge support for this amendment, and I again thank 
Chairman Skelton for his work on this bill and deep commitment to the 
men and women of the United States military.