# KENDELL FREDERICK CITIZENSHIP ASSISTANCE ACT
## `514a0a55f76a75b5b16e0add684b460c`
`Mr. KING of Iowa â€” 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, Specialist Kendell Frederick was a 21-year-old U.S. Army 
soldier serving in Iraq. He dreamed of becoming an American citizen. He 
was born in Trinidad and came to this country when he was 15 years old. 
Specialist Frederick joined ROTC while in high school, and he joined 
the Army after he graduated.

I want to make the point about how important ROTC is in the 
recruitment of our military personnel and having that available at the 
high school and also at the college level. And I reflect, as mention 
was made in the previous debate about the Purple Heart and George 
Washington, the historians that I talk to point out to me that George 
Washington most likely received his commission to command the 
Continental Army outside the gates of Harvard near the commons. And 
it's interesting also that the ROTC recruiters aren't allowed on that 
campus. But they were allowed on the campus that recruited Specialist 
Kendell Frederick.

On October 19, 2005, very sadly, Kendell Frederick was killed by a 
roadside bomb while traveling in a convoy to a base. He was granted 
U.S. citizenship posthumously, but he never knew that he was an 
American citizen. Tragically, the very reason that he was in the convoy 
that day was to get fingerprinted in order to achieve his dream of 
citizenship.

He had been trying to become an American citizen for over a year, 
having started the process while he was in training. His mother and his 
sergeant in Iraq tried to help him, but they didn't know the rules. His 
efforts to become a citizen were thwarted by bureaucratic 
misinformation and other obstacles.

Although he was fighting for our country in Iraq, he was told that he 
had to have his fingerprints retaken in Maryland. When his mother 
called 1-800-IMMIGRATION, a USCIS, that is, U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services, hotline for immigration assistance and tried to 
explain that he was fighting in the war and could not come home to 
Baltimore to be fingerprinted, she was told that there was nothing that 
they could do. Not a very good answer from a government that has people 
who put their lives on the line for our freedom.

This is wrong, Mr. Speaker. And it is intolerable that our soldiers 
are unable to get correct information, particularly with regard to the 
citizenship that they fight to defend. They should be given every 
possible assistance in applying for citizenship.

H.R. 2884 provides that a soldier who submits a naturalization 
application


within 24 months of enlistment can have that application process using 
the fingerprints that were taken at the time of enlistment. This is a 
very simple, very commonsense solution, and it's too bad that Congress 
has to take action on this to get this kind of a thing done, but it is 
dealt with the kind of compassion for patriotism that I think reflects 
the Members of this Congress, both sides of the aisle, and the people 
of this country.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support H.R. 2884 to honor Specialist 
Frederick and all of our permanent resident servicemembers who seek 
citizenship.



I urge my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.