# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `515f23e0dbaf49ef00e5dcb924945613`
`Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California. I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, the manner of our withdrawal from Iraq will dramatically 
affect the credibility of American foreign policy. Our actions must not 
lead to anti-Semites masquerading as the President of Iran with the 
misimpression that his thirst for nuclear weapons can ever end with the 
realization of his dream of nuclear holocaust, this time engulfing the 
Jewish national homeland. In the larger geopolitical context, like it 
or not, credibility is the currency of a global Superpower.

The argument has been made on this floor that our engagement in Iraq 
has had the effect of diverting our attention from other threats to our 
security interests such as a nuclear North Korea or the military 
buildup of China or even a resurgent Russia.

The recent glimmer of hope from the multiparty talks with the hermit 
kingdom demonstrates that it is possible for our Nation to, yes, walk 
and chew gum at the same time. The war in Iraq has not come at the cost 
of disengagement. However, perhaps more importantly, we cannot avoid 
the fact that


the manner in which we turn control over their country to the Iraqis 
will send a message across the globe to friend and foe alike of whether 
we are a reliable ally and a predictable adversary.

It is simply not possible for us to divorce our role in the world 
from our credibility as a Nation. The stakes are great for Iraq, but 
they are just as great, if not greater, for those of us in the United 
States, for those of us presently in the United States and for our 
children and our grandchildren.

Although everyone including the President has acknowledged the fact 
that things have not gone as planned in Iraq, this should not lead us 
to overlook the fact that the Iraqi people have chosen their Nation's 
leadership in democratic elections, three in a row, with more and more 
people participating, larger percentages of the population 
participating, in numbers and percentages that frankly would embarrass 
our country when you look at the turnout we have for elections. 
Sometimes we explain the low turnout in our elections because of bad 
weather. Their bad weather was not the question. It was the threat of 
death if they participated in elections, and yet they went forward to 
do so.

They ratified a Constitution that represents a dramatic departure 
from the rule of one of the most repressive regimes of the globe, and 
we sort of slide by that and say, well, we got rid of Saddam Hussein, 
but look at the mess those people are in over there. It is a difficult 
proposition. This President warned us after 9/11 it would be a 
difficult proposition; it would take fortitude; it would take 
persistence; it would take resolve.

At the same time, however, it is this very hope of democracy that has 
led those extremists who fear such a prospect to lash out in a wave of 
violence. In this regard, we must not fall prey to the error of failing 
to hold those responsible for violence accountable for their murderous 
actions.

The idea that we are somehow responsible for violence in Iraq is both 
preposterous and the crassest form of moral ignorance. Those who commit 
the murders, those who drill holes in people's brains, screw fellow 
human beings to walls and consider decapitation a form of religious 
expression, they are the ones who are responsible for the atrocities 
and massive human rights violations concerning the people of Iraq.

Charles Krauthammer aptly captures such moral illogic with the query 
of whether the police in America are somehow responsible and have on 
their hands the blood of the 16,000 murders they failed to prevent last 
year.

The tragic irony of such logic is that it suggests that those who 
murder in order to manipulate the Western media and public opinion by 
the spectacle of mangled bodies and blood-stained streets should be 
able to realize their aim of driving us away from the scene of their 
crime. We must not reward these thugs by giving them what they want. We 
are in Iraq to protect the Iraqi people, and the blame for the violence 
should be placed where it belongs.

As Prime Minister Blair so eloquently stated the proposition: ''Here 
is where we have to change radically our mindset. At present, when we 
are shown pictures of carnage in Iraq, much of our own opinion sees 
that as a failure, as a reason for leaving. Surely,'' Prime Minister 
Blair says, ''it is a reason for persevering and succeeding. What is 
the purpose of the terrorism in Iraq? It is to destroy the prospect of 
democratic progress. In doing so, they hope to deal us a mortal blow. 
They know victory for them in Iraq is defeat not just for Iraqi 
democracy but for democratic values everywhere.''

The challenges before us relate to the formulation of policy, but 
this should not be considered in a vacuum. The most important asset of 
the United States in Iraq is the quality of the men and women of our 
Armed Forces. It is in this regard that the person in charge of the 
responsibility of implementing our new policy, General David Petraeus, 
is well-suited to perform such a task.

In addition to his experience in the area around Mosul, he is the 
coauthor of the recently released Military Field Manual on 
Counterinsurgency Doctrine. History provides us with examples where 
military commanders have been brought into a theater of operations in 
order to turn around what seemed at the time less than promising, as 
illustrated by the appointments of General Grant, or even General 
Patton, to name just two examples.

If there ever was a need for such leadership in Iraq it is now. 
General Petraeus is a critical component to our prospects for progress.



And I know everybody says they support General Petraeus, they support 
our troops. But it does seem odd that when the other body confirmed 
General Petraeus unanimously, they followed it up by suggesting what he 
was going about was a fool's errand. And I know everybody here supports 
our troops, but listen to what you are saying. On the one hand you say, 
''Godspeed, General Petraeus,'' and on the other hand you say, ''You 
are doomed to failure.''

The need to meet the challenge of stabilizing Iraq, primarily in 
Baghdad and Anbar Province, is essential to the orderly withdrawal of 
American forces. Any precipitous action which fails to accommodate this 
concern would likely have untold consequences for innocents within 
Iraq, the broader Middle East, and ultimately the security of the 
American people.

Again, however, it must be emphasized that the long-term success or 
failure of democracy in Iraq rests with the Iraqis themselves. As Faoud 
Ajami of Johns Hopkins University has pointed out, we have given the 
gift of freedom to the Iraqi people, which, by nature, entails the 
conclusion that their future is in their own hands.

This new strategy, and I stress it is a new strategy, recognizes that 
our remaining days in Iraq must be dedicated to making this transition 
to a new political order possible, not just getting out, but getting 
out as we succeed in our effort to establish a stable democracy in 
Iraq.