# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `518636f6db4ff05bf5663d862d9f6491`
`Mr. JACKSON of Illinois â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. JACKSON of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I rise today in defense of 
our national security, in support of our troops, and in favor of this 
resolution.

This measure is a first and important step in preventing the 
President's ill-conceived escalation plan; reversing our present, 
perilous course; and ultimately bringing our brave troops home from 
Iraq.

Mr. President, when in a deep hole, stop digging.

But rather than searching for a way out, the President proposes to 
dig down deeper, plunging further into a dark abyss. Blinded by 
ideology and steeped in delusion, the administration's answer to the 
chaos in Iraq is to send an additional 21,500 troops into the middle of 
it.

I do not support the President's shortsighted, wrong-headed, reckless 
approach. And on behalf of the American people, this House must act now 
to stop the continuation of an ambiguous, constantly changing, open-
ended engagement in Iraq.



During the last 4 years, our men and women in uniform have answered 
the call of duty. They have demonstrated true courage and bravery and 
honor. They have served our Nation valiantly, even as many civilian 
leaders have failed them.

I mourn the loss of 3,100 Americans who died, 95 of whom are from my 
home State of Illinois. I pray for the thousands who have been 
seriously wounded and permanently disabled. And I have voted again and 
again to ensure that our troops in Iraq had the body armor and the 
equipment that they need to protect their lives and discharge their 
duties.

Tragically, the war in Iraq is a case study in ''mission creep.'' And 
the fact is no amount of troops can successfully complete a mission 
that is unclear, that is ill-defined, that is muddled and mutable.

During the run-up to the first gulf war, then-Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, General Colin Powell, put forth eight criteria to be 
met for military action. Among the critical questions posed by the 
Powell doctrine were the following: Do we have a clear attainable 
objective? Is there a plausible exit strategy to avoid endless 
entanglement? Have the consequences of our actions been fully 
considered?

The answer to each question when applied to Iraq today is the same as 
it has been since the start of this war: no, no, and no.



With the help of its author, the Powell Doctrine was shredded to bits 
and the mission in Iraq is adrift.

Consider this: On September 12, 2002, President Bush challenged world 
leaders at the U.N. General Assembly session to confront the grave and 
gathering danger posed by Iraq's weapons of mass destruction. However, 
no weapons of mass destruction were found there.

Then President Bush shifted his justification, arguing that the war 
was about liberating Iraqis from a brutal dictator. But in December 
2003, 4 years ago, Saddam Hussein was found and captured. He has since 
been tried and hanged for crimes against humanity.

After Saddam was taken into custody, President Bush claimed that the 
mission was to spread democracy throughout the Middle East. Yet Iraq 
has deteriorated into sectarian violence erupting into a bloody civil 
war.

Now, with the violence increasing, the President says our mission is 
to confront the terrorists in Iraq so we don't have to face them here 
at home. However, according to government intelligence, the war in Iraq 
has helped recruit more terrorists, not vanquish them.

Madam Speaker, now is not the time to close our eyes, cross our 
fingers and stay the course. We cannot continue to engage in the same 
action and expect a different result. We should not send more of our 
soldiers to the desert on a mission that shifts like the sands beneath 
their boots.

The President's plan attempts to impose a half-baked, unworkable 
military solution, when Iraq needs a political one. Rather than a 
military escalation, this situation in Iraq requires a diplomatic and 
political intensification. The American military must stand down, so 
the Iraqi people can stand up and seek a political settlement and 
assume responsibility for their own future. The Iraqi government must 
engage in negotiations and compromises that balance the power of 
provincial and central governments, share oil revenues and protect the 
rights of every Iraqi citizen.

The Iraq Study Group, co-chaired by James Baker and Lee Hamilton, 
released a report in December stating the same. They said the security 
situation cannot improve unless leaders act in support of national 
reconciliation. There is no action the American military can take by 
itself that can bring about success in Iraq.

As Democrats, we support our troops, but we don't support the 
Commander in Chief squandering billions of our tax dollars and 
recklessly putting our brave soldiers in the cross-hairs of someone 
else's civil war. I believe our domestic national security rests on 
redeploying our military forces from Iraq in order to build more 
consensus in the Middle East.

To conclude, Madam Speaker, I support this resolution opposing 
President Bush's failed policy of escalation. It is time to bring a 
responsible end to this war, to bring our troops home, and to bring 
them home right now.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
