# NEW PARTNERSHIP FOR HEALTHCARE IN IRAQ
## `51b347b925828839ae6bb45a7ade4b95`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN â€” 4 August 2007`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to commend the efforts of 
several of our 7th District constituents who are working to rebuild the 
shattered healthcare system in Iraq. The collaboration between Dr. 
Goran Bekhtyar, a Kurdish-American physician from Franklin, Tennessee 
and Smith & Nephew, a global medical technology company based in 
Memphis, demonstrates to all of us that individual people can indeed 
achieve remarkable results.

I came to know Dr. Bekhtyar several years ago through his service in 
the Tennessee state government. After the fall of the Saddam Hussein 
regime, Dr. Bekhtyar set aside his medical practice in Franklin, 
Tennessee to work full-time at rebuilding the medical system in his 
native Iraq. He founded a non-profit organization, Improved Health 
Systems for Iraq (IHSI), and has traveled frequently to Iraq to advise 
health officials. During his brief visits home, he has worked 
tirelessly to enlist American healthcare providers and companies in his 
efforts.

Dr. Bekhtyar told me of the primitive conditions and lack of modern 
equipment that prevents Iraqi doctors from effectively treating their 
patients. I encouraged him to contact Smith & Nephew, a global medical 
technology company that specializes in developing Orthopaedic Trauma & 
Clinical Therapies, Orthopaedic Reconstruction, Endoscopy and Advanced 
Wound Management products. After meeting with Dr. Bekhtyar, Smith & 
Nephew leaders such as Dwayne Montgomery, Ken Reali, Zane Wood, and 
Mark Augusti immediately committed to assisting the efforts of IHSI.

Over the past six months, this team has spearheaded a donation drive 
through its Project Apollo Program, which will provide nearly half a 
million dollars of vital and crucial medical devices to orthopaedic 
surgeons and hospitals in Iraq. The program will provide advanced, 
world-class products such as non-locking plates and screws, and the 
Exogen ultrasonic bone healing system. Dr. Bekhtyar will return to Iraq 
on August 23rd and begin the distribution of the medical devices to 
Iraqi hospitals and physicians.

Madam Speaker, please join me in commending the passion and 
perseverance of Dr. Goran Bekhtyar and the initiative and generosity of 
Smith & Nephew. Together, they are setting an example of selflessness 
that we would all do well to follow.
