# None
## `51e297587abed1870e8ecece3dd5da88`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 18 June 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, here we have a supplemental appropriations 
conference report, supposedly, ostensibly to fund the wars in 
Afghanistan and Iraq and to make sure the men and women who are serving 
have the necessary equipment and wherewithal to pursue those conflicts 
with the utmost efficiency. It is business as usual in our Nation's 
Capital. It is business as usual in the Congress of the United States. 
Instead of legislation to fund our troops and efforts in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, we have a bill that includes such things as $2 million for 
freeze-dried platelet and plasma development, $35 million for the FBI 
to investigate mortgage fraud, predatory lending, financial fraud and 
market manipulation, $13.2 million for payments to air carriers for 
participation in the essential air service program.

Of course, one of the most remarkable feats of legerdemain I have 
seen in my many years here, cash for clunkers. Someone should at least 
attempt to explain how cash for clunkers has any relation whatsoever to 
the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. It bribes Americans to trade in less 
fuel-efficient vehicles, considered clunkers, despite the fact that the 
car could have been bought yesterday, for a voucher worth up to $4,500 
toward the purchase of a new car that must get at least 18 miles per 
gallon, at least 18 miles per gallon--18 not 38? It is estimated to 
cost about $1 billion, but some economists have declared the real cost 
will be between $3 and $4 billion. I predict it will be a lot closer to 
$3 to $4 billion than it will be to $1 billion.

A giveaway of this nature will be obviously something that will be 
irresistible to many.

Here we are considering a supplemental appropriations conference 
report totaling $105.9 billion, $13 billion less than the President's 
request, $9 billion more than the House-passed bill, and $14.6 billion 
above the Senate-passed bill. So what we have done is, we pass a bill 
over here, they pass a bill over there, and we add to the sum of both. 
The conference report provides crucial funding for ongoing military, 
diplomatic, and intelligence operations. It provides emergency funding 
to strengthen response to the H1N1 influenza outbreak and the borrowing 
authority for the International Monetary Fund and, as I mentioned, 
vouchers for consumers to trade in old cars for new, ''old'' meaning as 
short a time as 1 year.

The majority of the conference report contains urgently needed 
funding for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, our 
military is engaged in an effort that can and must succeed. It also 
contains important assistance for the Government of Pakistan, including 
funding for the Pakistan counterinsurgency fund. The provision of this 
funding should send a message to the people of Pakistan that the United 
States has made a long-term commitment to stand by their side in the 
region and at home as they battle domestic insurgents and extremists. 
However, the conference report also contains billions of dollars in 
unrequested spending that is largely unjustified and certainly 
nonemergency.

President Obama's message to the Congress was to keep funding focused


on the needs of our troops and not to use the supplemental to pursue 
unnecessary spending and to keep earmarks and other extraneous spending 
out of the legislation. Despite the President's insistence not to 
include unnecessary spending in the supplemental, the conference report 
contains a number of earmarks and unrequested congressional program 
additions.

I am disappointed the majority chose to use the supplemental as a 
vehicle to add billions in unrequested funding and policy proposals 
which should have been fully vetted and considered on their own merits, 
while at the same time stripping out the Senate-passed detainee photo 
provision offered by Senators Lieberman and Graham. The conference 
report is also being used by the appropriators as a back door for 
funding fiscal year 2010 ''base'' requirements.

The House allocations for 2010--commonly referred to as 302(b) 
allocations--cut defense spending by $3.5 billion and reduced 
international affairs funding by $3.2 billion. In other words, the 
sleight of hand of adding nonemergency program funding to supplemental 
appropriations is becoming all too familiar as a way of skirting fiscal 
discipline by increasing discretionary spending above congressional 
discretionary caps outlined in the budget resolution. In other words, 
we are continuing what was, unfortunately, common in the previous 
administration. Again, about cash for clunkers, it is remarkable.

On June 16, 2009, Citizens Against Government Waste wrote a letter to 
all Members of the Senate stating that this provision ''is really 
another bailout for the auto industry. American taxpayers have already 
spent $85 billion.''

We now own two automotive companies, we and the unions. Why do we 
need another bailout for the auto industry?



 The ''Cash for Clunkers'' provision has no place in a bill 


 that provides emergency war funds.


I couldn't agree with Citizens Against Government Waste more.

The Wall Street Journal wrote in a June 11, 2009, editorial:




 Congress wants to pay you to destroy your car . . . as 


 economic policy, this is dotty. It encourages Americans to 


 needlessly destroy still useful cars and then misallocates 


 scarce resources from another, perhaps more productive, use 


 in order to subsidize replacement. By the same logic, we 


 could revive the housing market by paying everyone to burn 


 down their houses, to collect the insurance money and build 


 new ones . . . The proposal is really intended to help 


 Detroit out of a recession by subsidizing new car purchases . 


 . .


Maybe that is why the president and CEO of the Alliance of Automobile 
Manufacturers wrote asking all Senators to support this program, as 
well as the United Auto Workers legislative director, who called this 
provision ''the single most important step Congress can take right now 
to assist the auto industry.''

Hasn't Congress done enough for the auto industry? When is $85 
billion not enough for the auto industry?

Lastly, this provision is a lemon, according to a June 13, 2009, 
article from the LA Times that stated:




 Critics say the improvements required in the trade--as 


 little as 1 mile per gallon for certain light trucks--


In other words, you trade in your old light truck and buy another one 
that is 1-mile-per-gallon more fuel efficient. So you can swap one gas 
guzzler for another.

So for $1 billion, this provision doesn't achieve the environmental 
goals its authors set forth either. My colleagues, Senators Feinstein 
and Collins, argued such in an opinion piece published in the Wall 
Street Journal on June 11, 2009, and also wrote that this provision 
''being pushed by the auto industry is simply bad policy,'' that it is 
''designed to provide Detroit one last windfall in selling off gas 
guzzlers currently sitting on dealers lots because they're not a smart 
buy.''

This unrelated provision is an unwise use of taxpayers' hard-earned 
money and bad environmental policy. It doesn't belong in this bill, and 
I strongly disagree with its inclusion.

There are a few more earmarks I would like to highlight: $2.2 billion 
in unrequested funding for eight C-17 Globemaster cargo aircraft. 
Currently, we have either bought or ordered 30 more C-17 cargo aircraft 
than is the military requirement. This is not a jobs program, as the 
backlog of C-17s is so great that Boeing will not begin building these 
eight aircraft for another 3 to 5 years. While Secretary Gates called 
the C-17 ''a terrific aircraft,'' he stressed that the military users 
''have more than necessary capacity'' for airlift over the next 10 
years. These are, again, testimonies to the power of the military 
industrial congressional complex in Washington, DC.

An unholy alliance between manufacturers, Members of Congress, and 
lobbyists brings these things about. There is $504 million in 
unrequested funding for seven C-130 Hercules cargo aircraft. In 
testimony on May 14, 2009, Secretary Gates said:




 We have over 200 C-130s in the Air National Guard that are 


 uncommitted and available for use for any kind of domestic 


 need.



 All I know is that I have a great deal of unused capacity 


 in the C-130 fleet.


That is what the Secretary of Defense says. So we are going to spend 
$504 million more for seven C-130 Hercules cargo aircraft.

There is $3.1 billion in unrequested funding for international 
affairs operations and programs. The additional funding added by the 
House majority and agreed to in conference is to offset the $3.2 
billion reduction recently made by the Congress to the base budget 
request.

There is $49 million in unrequested funding for hurricane damage 
repairs to the Mississippi Army Ammunition Plant. This funding was 
added even though the Army advised the managers of this bill there are 
no storm-related repairs required at the plant--so we are going to 
spend $49 million to repair a plant that does not need to be repaired--
and that no valid military requirement exists for the funding.

Mr. President, $186 million is provided above the President's request 
for lightweight howitzers built in Mississippi for the Marine Corps. 
The additional funding is not requested in the Future Year Defense 
Plan, nor was it on the fiscal year 2009 or fiscal year 2010 Marine 
Corps Unfunded Requirements Lists. In other words, the Marine Corps 
does not need it. The Department of Defense says it is not needed, but 
we are going to spend $186 million additionally for howitzers built in 
the State of Mississippi.

Mr. President, $150 million is included for Air Force A-10 Warthog 
aircraft wing kits and installations. While Davis Montham Air Force 
Base is in my State of Arizona and additional wing kits would be 
welcomed, the additional funds were not requested by the 
administration, and I oppose this $150 million.

It end runs the Defense Base Realignment and Closure, BRAC, process 
by prohibiting the Secretary of Defense from carrying out a 2005 BRAC 
decision to discontinue the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology.

I was very disappointed the House Democrats succeeded in their 
efforts to strip from the supplemental spending bill the detainee photo 
provision offered by Senators Lieberman and Graham. This provision, 
which would support the President's efforts to bar the release of 
photos of past detainee abuse, would help protect our troops from the 
inevitable recriminations that these photos would incite. Releasing the 
photos would not supply new information about the issue of detainee 
abuse, but, rather, expose evidence of alleged past wrongdoing and put 
our fighting men and women in greater danger.

That is not my view. It is that of our leading military commanders, 
including GENs David Petraeus and Ray Odierno. Both of these 
distinguished military leaders have stated that the release of these 
images could endanger the lives of U.S. soldiers and make our 
counterinsurgency efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan more difficult.

That is why I commend the leadership demonstrated by Senators 
Lieberman and Graham, both of whom have steadfastly demanded that this 
crucial provision be addressed now by the Congress. Their efforts 
culminated in the passage, by unanimous consent, of stand-alone 
legislation that will help prevent the release of these damaging 
images.

So there are other troubling aspects of detainee policy included in 
this supplemental bill. Provisions in this bill attempt to address 
detainee policy in a


piecemeal way that fails to constitute a comprehensive plan for what to 
do with detainees at Guantanamo and those terrorist suspects captured 
off the battlefield in Afghanistan.

It does not include the $80 million requested by President Obama to 
close Guantanamo. This is a serious rebuke by Congress and reflects a 
bipartisan backlash against the idea of announcing a date for the 
closure of Guantanamo while failing to provide a plan for what comes 
next.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the fiscal year 2009 
supplemental earmarks and unrequested congressional add-ons be printed 
in the Record.