# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `5216bc22de5eba6a27e111ecc20f5326`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I will oppose the nomination of Leslie 
Southwick to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals because I have serious 
questions about his ability to be an impartial jurist.

I am concerned that Judge Southwick's views of racial discrimination 
in jury selection reflect a lack of adequate respect for Supreme Court 
precedent. In Batson v. Kentucky, the Supreme Court ruled against 
preemptory dismissal of jurors without stating a valid cause for doing 
so may not be used to exclude jurors based solely on their race.

The contrast between Judge Southwick's votes in jury challenge cases 
is particularly troubling. In the majority of cases where African-
American defendants have challenged their convictions on the ground 
that the prosecution used peremptory challenges to strike African-
American jurors, Judge Southwick voted against the defendant's 
challenge. Further, in the majority of cases where African-American 
defendants challenged their convictions on the ground that the 
prosecution had unfairly prevented them from using their peremptory 
challenges to exclude White--or in one case Asian American--jurors, the 
defendants, with Judge Southwick joining the majority, lost the 
challenges.

There is other evidence of racial insensitivity that concerns me. In 
Richmond v. Mississippi Department of Human Services, Judge Southwick 
joined a 5-4 ruling upholding the reinstatement of a White State social 
worker who had been fired for referring to an African-American co-
worker as a ''good ole n*****'' during a meeting with high level 
company officials. After she was fired, Richmond appealed her 
termination to the State Employee Appeals Board, EAB, which ordered her 
reinstatement. The hearing officer opined that Richmond's use of the 
racial slur ''was in effect calling the individual a 'teacher's pet.''' 
On appeal, Judge Southwick joined a majority that held that the use of 
the racial slur was ''not motivated out of racial hatred or animosity 
directed at her co-worker or toward blacks in general, but was, rather, 
intended to be a shorthand description of her perception of the 
relationship existing between the [co-]worker and [a] DHS supervisor.''

In dissent, two judges criticized the hearing officer and majority 
opinion for having a ''sanitized version'' of the facts and for 
suggesting that ''absent evidence of a near race riot, the remark is 
too inconsequential to serve as a basis of dismissal.'' The dissent 
found that the racial epithet of ''n*****'' is ''inherently offensive, 
and [its] use establishes the intent to offend.''

The ruling Judge Southwick joined was unanimously reversed and 
remanded on appeal by the Mississippi Supreme Court.

Further, in Brock v. Mississippi, a case which upheld a criminal 
conviction where the prosecution used a preemptory challenge against an 
African-American juror purportedly because he lived in a high crime 
area, the dissenting judge criticized Judge Southwick's opinion for 
accepting the action of the prosecutor, which, ''on its face appears 
geared toward a racially identifiable group.''

Some have tried to make the point that Judge Southwick did not write 
most of these opinions; rather that he merely signed on to them. If 
Judge Southwick did not agree with those opinions, he could have 
dissented. If he agreed with the holding but not the reasoning, he 
could have written a separate concurrence. To the contrary, he simply 
voted with the majority and supported their opinions.



Because I do not believe that his record reflects the objectivity and 
even-handedness necessary to serve in a lifetime appointment on the 
Federal bench, I cannot vote to confirm his nomination.

 Mr. COBURN. Mr. President, today the Senate has a golden opportunity 
to take a big stride forward in working its way out of this judicial 
nomination mess we are in. At some point we as a body are going to have 
to take partisanship out of this judicial nomination process if we hope 
to continue to attract great candidates to the Federal bench. We have 
seen other great nominees withdraw because of the stress and difficulty 
of this process. Fortunately, Judge Southwick has stood firm so that 
the Senate has a chance to confirm him.

Leslie Southwick is an Iraq veteran and has already demonstrated that 
he is a great jurist. From the testimonials of people in Mississippi, 
regardless of political or cultural differences, he is fairminded, not 
biased, and is an outstanding pick for this seat.

It is incredible to observe the vitriolic opposition to this 
nomination that is built wholly on two written opinions in question 
that Judge Southwick did not even write. How can the Senate seriously 
say that those two opinions, in a vacuum, show that Judge Southwick is 
racist or insensitive to minority litigants? The support from African-
Americans in Mississippi exposes that the opposition is politically 
motivated.

The Senate and the Judiciary Committee must step away from the 
politically based litmus tests that currently control the nominations 
process. We must also stop focusing purely on the results of cases, 
without any context to the facts and law at issue, as the sole 
indicator of a nominee's judicial philosophy.

I ask my colleagues to seriously reconsider our current course and 
let Judge Southwick have a fair up-or-down vote.

When we are reviewing judicial nominees, we should ask ourselves 
three questions:

First, does the nominee have the basic qualifications to be a good 
judge?

In this case, the answer is yes. The American Bar Association twice 
rated Judge Southwick ''well qualified,'' with the ABA actually 
increasing their rating to ''unanimously well qualified'' when he was 
nominated to the Fifth Circuit vacancy.

Second, does the nominee possess the appropriate judicial temperament 
so that every litigant will be treated fairly when they come before 
this nominee?

The answer again is yes. If you read the many letters from lawyers 
and judges in the Mississippi legal community, they clearly believe 
litigants are treated fairly and impartially before Judge Southwick.

Third, does the nominee respect the proper constitutional role of a 
judge to not create law from the bench?

Again the answer is yes. The record clearly demonstrates that Judge 
Southwick is and will be a restrained jurist.

As Congress we should be thrilled when a judge shows that he will be 
restrained in his rulings from the bench. We write the laws, and we 
should be grateful that a judge knows he is not a Member of Congress 
and will defer to us in the task of writing law.

Again, I ask my colleagues to move beyond petty partisanship with 
quality nominees like Judge Southwick, and let's give him a vote.

I yield the floor.