# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `529d2652ac4f25b9e2ab5d0c29b586f7`
`Mr. KUCINICH â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 5658, 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009.

The United States military is unmatched. I therefore maintain that 
the defense-industrial complex follows a misguided strategy of buying 
weapons that provide Americans with no increased safety.

We need to provide for the traditional sense of security by first 
ensuring economic security, health security, and job security for all. 
The roots of terrorism begin not in hatred, but in desperation. All 
people, no matter their ethnicity, seek the basic necessities such as 
food, clothes, shelter, good health, and the ability to earn a decent 
living. If you can level this playing field, there is no desperation 
that may potentially evolve into radical hatred.

I will support a defense budget that matches real threats to our 
security with appropriate defensive measures. Our foreign policy should 
promote economic stability worldwide, thereby eliminating the roots of 
terrorism, which stem from desperation. This bill does the opposite by 
continuing policies of fear and aggression.

The advocates of advanced weapons systems fail to understand these 
new systems do not match up an effective defense capability with the 
terrorist threats. Only a new approach to foreign policy can 
effectively mitigate the terrorist threat.

The ever-rising cost of our military is not financially sustainable. 
Since 2001 this body has appropriated over $700 billion for all war-
related expenses. This bill will provide an additional $70 billion in 
emergency funding for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. But as we 
know, the Administration is asking for hundreds of billions of 
additional funds that this body is expected to consider in the near 
future.

Now more than ever it is clear that this Administration's occupation 
and reconstruction of Iraq has failed. The war, waged under false 
pretenses, has decimated Iraq. Destruction has permeated most of the 
country. War has taken a very heavy, very real toll. There is 
increasing concern that militias in Iraq are arising to meet the 
humanitarian needs of the Iraqi people. I have urged this body to stop 
this illegal war. We must honor our troops by bringing them home. I 
cannot support any measure that continues the illegal occupation of 
Iraq and continues to undercut our nation's credibility.

The greatest tragedy of this war is the 4,080 American soldiers that 
have been killed. Tens of thousands more have been injured. Estimates 
conclude that 1,000,000 innocent Iraqis have died as a result of the 
U.S. invasion.

Furthermore, the claimed ballistic missile threat is grossly 
exaggerated. Terrorists do not possess ballistic missiles and the few 
nation states that do have such missiles have no desire to face the 
retaliation of our ballistic missiles.

Accordingly, I thank the Committee for undercutting the President's 
request of $954 million for the European Ground-Based Mid-Course 
Defense (GMD) program. However, this bill still authorizes $582 million 
for the European GMD despite a lack of assurance that the system will 
work or make our national more safe. Funding for the European GMD 
should be removed entirely.

The Administration claims the system is necessary to defend the U.S. 
from a long-range ballistic missile attack from Iran. However, Iran is 
unlikely to pose such a threat to the United States in the foreseeable 
future due to the immense technical difficulties that Iran would have 
to overcome to create a long-range ballistic missile capable of 
reaching the U.S.

In fact, it is conceivable that the U.S. will have its own technical 
difficulties to overcome before such a system can be proven viable. The 
Test and Evaluation department of the Pentagon cautions that many more 
tests under realistic conditions would be needed before conceding our 
capability to shoot down an offensive missile.

The citizens of the Czech Republic and Poland clearly reject the 
proposed agreement. Public opinion polls in the Czech Republic and 
Poland reflect strong opposition to the placement of the radar and 
interceptors in their respective countries and strained their relations 
with Russia. The GMD proposal has by some accounts exacerbated U.S.-
Russia relations. The U.S. has shared information but not meaningfully 
cooperated with Russia in these negotiations. Because the Czech 
Republic and Poland fall within the boundaries of former Russian 
influence, U.S. action with regard to the GMD have been perceived by 
Russia as an intrusion. There can be no doubt that U.S. efforts to 
impose the GMD are perceived as an obstruction to the diplomatic ties 
between our nations.

A total of $9.3 billion will go to the Department of Energy for 
nuclear weapons activities, $1.455 billion of these funds will wisely 
go to Nonproliferation programs and I thank my colleagues for their 
work to increase these programs by $208 million above the President's 
request. However, this still leaves roughly $7.9 billion that supports 
and maintains nuclear stockpiles.

The U.S. Administration has established a record of unilateralism and 
that undercuts our nation's credibility in the eyes of other nations. 
In just under eight years the U.S. Administration had backtracked on 
international treaties and conventions. The U.S. has rejected the 
Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, refused to sign the Land Mine Treaty, 
withdrawn from the Anti Ballistic Missile Treaty, unsigned the Kyoto 
Protocol, and blocked a verification protocol for the Biological 
Weapons Convention. It is time for the U.S. to uphold international 
law. It is time for the U.S. to stand for dialogue and diplomacy. It is 
time for the United States to rethink our policies and set upon a new 
strategy of strength through peace.