# RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE OUTBREAK OF THE KOREAN WAR
## `52a2635b20375448c0e972613e2e5c8f`
`Mr. BURR â€” 16 June 2010`

---


Mr. BURR. Mr. President, this joint resolution recognizes the 60th 
anniversary of the outbreak of the Korean war, as well as honoring the 
strong friendship between the United States and the Republic of Korea.

June 25 is a very important day, not only in Korean history, but also 
in U.S. history. On that day 60 years ago, Communist troops from the 
Soviet-occupied north crossed the invisible border at the 38th parallel 
to invade their free brethren to the south--killing thousands of 
civilians and forcing streams of refugees to flee their advance.

Under the leadership of President Harry S. Truman, the United States 
responded to its first military challenge of the Cold War by 
dispatching U.S. forces to lead 15 other countries of a United Nations 
force to defend against the spread of communism. President Truman made 
his commitment to the war very clear:




 In the simplest terms, what we are doing in Korea is this: 


 We are trying to prevent a third world war. . . . If history 


 has taught us anything, it is that aggression anywhere in the 


 world is a threat to peace everywhere in the world. When that 


 aggression is supported by the cruel and selfish rulers of a 


 powerful nation who are bent on conquest, it becomes a clear 


 and present danger to the security and independence of every 


 free nation.


During the 3 years of the Korean war, 5.7 million Americans answered 
the call to duty, and almost 1.8 million of these men and women 
deployed across the Pacific to serve in some of the most harsh and 
unforgiving conditions along the rugged peninsula, in the skies above 
the Yalu River, on carriers and other surface ships at sea, or from 
staging and support areas in Japan. By the official cease fire on July 
27, 1953, 54,246 American servicemen and servicewomen had sacrificed 
their lives to defeat Korean and Chinese Communist troops and push them 
north of what is known as the Demilitarized Zone. Since then, a 
stalemate has existed on the Korean Peninsula, with the United States 
supporting a free and prosperous Republic of Korea, while keeping a 
wary eye on the brutally repressive regime across the border. In the 
last 60 years, there have been several confrontational episodes and 
potential flashpoints between the two Koreas, and events of the last 
few weeks show us that the conflict continues today.

Although we are hopeful that the swell of military action 60 years 
ago will be the most profound fighting in the Korean war, North Korea 
has shown a propensity to provoke its sister country in the South. This 
is clearly evident in the brutal murder of 46 South Korean sailors of 
the South Korean Navy ship, the Cheowan, on May 20. Compelling evidence 
points toward North Korean culpability in this latest episode. Such an 
act of aggression only serves to underscore and reaffirm the importance 
of the alliance between the United States and the Republic of Korea.

Today, U.S. Forces Korea--the combined American air, ground, and 
naval forces of roughly 28,500 American servicemembers--still stand 
ready to assist in the safety and security of South Korea near the 
Demilitarized Zone, DMZ, and throughout the rest of the peninsula below 
the 38th Parallel.

This mutual and enduring friendship has been in evidence since 
September 11, 2001. South Korea has been an able and willing ally in 
the global war on terror, dispatching the 100th Engineer Group and 
924th Medical Group to both Iraq and Afghanistan. Their forces have 
been integral in providing humanitarian and medical aid to soldiers and 
civilians alike, as well as working to rebuild infrastructure in 
Afghanistan and Iraq.

I ask all of my esteemed colleagues to stand with me and pass this 
joint resolution, to not only commemorate the 60th anniversary of the 
beginning of the Korean war and properly honor those Americans who 
served proudly in that conflict, but also to recognize the continued 
resilience and vibrancy of the alliance between our nations.