# None
## `52c744ec335529f8e2f2ea57498c8d23`
`Mr. KAUFMAN â€” 8 December 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Madam President, I rise today to speak about the 
Afghanistan strategy President Obama announced last week. The dilemma 
facing the President and our national security team in Afghanistan is 
one of the most complex and difficult I have seen in more than three 
decades of public service.

President Obama's speech laid out a bold plan, and he has been both 
deliberative and courageous in his approach. At the same time, I share 
the concerns of many Americans about the challenges that lie ahead for 
our troops. Sending young men and women into harms way is the most 
difficult choices we must face. Each life lost is one too many.

The decision in Afghanistan is especially difficult because four 
primary questions remain. The first question is do we have a trusted 
and effective partner in President Karzai? No matter how many troops we 
deploy, we cannot succeed with an Afghan government plagued by 
corruption.

The second question is to what length is Pakistan willing to go to 
help? We cannot defeat al-Qaida and degrade the Taliban without 
Pakistan's support.

The third question is can we accelerate the training of Afghan 
National Security Forces? Today, there are too few Afghan security 
forces to clear and hold against the Taliban, and they are not capable 
of taking over from U.S. troops. And in light of the President's 18-
month deadline, it is clear that self-sufficiency for the Afghans is 
not optional; it is mandatory. Secretary Gates confirmed for me in last 
week's Senate Foreign Relations hearing that July 2011 is a firm 
deadline. In 18 months, we will begin our withdrawal and we will not 
send additional troops after this time. This was reiterated by 
Secretary Clinton and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Mullen.

The fourth question is do we have enough qualified U.S. civilians in 
Afghanistan to partner with the Afghan people in promoting governance 
and economic development? We must send even more and ensure that the 
''civilian surge'' extends to all 34 provinces, so they can partner 
with Afghans in the field.

I visited Afghanistan in April and September and had the opportunity 
to speak with our military and civilian leaders, President Karzai, and 
numerous Afghan ministers. I traveled to Helmand and Kandahar 
Provinces, and met with local government officials and tribal elders at 
a ''shura,'' or community council. What I heard from the Afghan people 
was frustration with their government's inability to provide security, 
administer justice, and deliver basic services. They welcomed 
international assistance in the short-term but sought improved security 
and governance. Most importantly, they wanted control transferred to 
Afghan security forces once they were capable of holding against the 
Taliban themselves.

Since returning from Afghanistan, my No. 1 concern has been the 
ability of the Karzai government to be an effective and trusted 
partner. In his second term, President Karzai must eliminate 
corruption, strengthen rule of law, and deliver essential services in 
order to win the trust of the Afghan people. Ultimately, the battle is 
not between the U.S. and the Taliban. It is a struggle between the 
Afghan government and the Taliban, and the fight must be won by the 
Afghans themselves. The notion of a corrupt government has emboldened 
the Taliban and further undermined trust between President Karzai and 
his people. President Karzai must translate promises in his 
inauguration speech into action, because increased government 
transparency and accountability is absolutely critical.

For me, the key point in President Obama's speech was that our 
military commitment is not open-ended. In July 2011, we will begin our 
troop drawdown. This has created an 18-month deadline for progress, 
injecting a sense of urgency to our mission that has been missing for 
the past 8 years. It sends a message that the clock is ticking for the 
Afghan government to eliminate corruption. They will no longer get a 
''blank check'' because the time for action is now. On the security 
front, the


Afghan National Army and Police have no choice but to assume greater 
responsibility given the certainty of a U.S. withdrawal.

As President Obama outlined, Pakistan is central to this fight. We 
cannot succeed without its cooperation because developments in the 
region are inextricably tied to both sides of the border. After my 
April visit, I was concerned about the Pakistani commitment. When I 
returned in September, however, I was impressed by the Pakistani 
military's decision to go after elements of the Taliban in the Swat 
Valley and South Waziristan. At the same time, Pakistan must take 
action against the Afghan Taliban and al-Qaida, which continue to find 
safe haven in Pakistani tribal areas. If extremists continue to operate 
freely between Afghanistan and Pakistan, it will undermine security 
gains made on the Afghan side of the border. And the stakes are even 
higher in Pakistan, which has both nuclear weapons and delivery 
vehicles.

In Afghanistan, we must break the momentum of the Taliban by 
improving security and strengthening our ability to partner with the 
Afghans. That is why I support efforts to accelerate the training of 
Afghan National Security Forces, ANSF. I am concerned that the 
President's goal of increasing the Afghan Army to 134,000 in 2010 does 
not go far enough in building the capacity of the ANSF. By comparison, 
Iraq--a geographically smaller country with the same sized population--
has 600,000 trained security forces. This is why we must accelerate our 
targets for building the army and improve the capability of the police, 
which has faced even greater challenges in terms of corruption, 
incompetence, and attrition.

Finally, our success in Afghanistan depends on more than troops--we 
need an integrated civilian-military strategy in order to sustain 
progress. Many dedicated U.S. civilians continue to serve in 
Afghanistan, and we must further augment these numbers and ensure they 
can directly interact with Afghans in the field. Given their role as a 
force multiplier for the military and international nongovernmental 
organizations, NGOs, this is an area where we must channel even more 
resources and people in the near term. We need a stronger civilian 
capacity, because counterinsurgency cannot and should not be conducted 
with the military alone.

Over the coming months, I will closely monitor our progress in Afghan 
governance, partnering with Pakistan, building the Afghan National 
Security Forces, and increasing the U.S. civilian surge. Improvements 
in these areas are critical to our overall success in Afghanistan, and 
will determine when our brave men and women in uniform can return home.

I yield the floor.