# CAFE STANDARDS
## `52d5c8f03d685949d0b2e76fd9e360eb`
`Mr. CARPER â€” 20 June 2007`

---


Mr. CARPER. I will.

Mr. President, I was talking about the visit of last week with the 
CEO of one of our major three automakers. The point I was trying to 
make is the automakers don't have to come up with cars that get 52 
miles per gallon or 50 miles per gallon, but if they have a fleet of 60 
percent trucks and 40 percent cars in 2020, they are going to have to 
do better, and better is 42 miles per gallon.

Our leader, Senator Reid, was talking about an event here today where 
some vehicles were on display. I think they were jerry rigged--maybe it 
was Ford Escape and some other vehicles, maybe Priuses--in order to get 
very high mileage, I think he said 170 miles per gallon. We don't need 
cars that get 170 miles per gallon by 2020 to make this standard of 
roughly 35 miles per gallon for the fleet. We don't need cars that get 
50 miles per gallon.

But in this case, Company X--which is a real company, it turns out--
is working toward 42 miles per gallon and they would meet the expected 
requirements that would be set for them.

I said to my visitor last week, the CEO who was visiting me, You have 
an obligation to your shareholders and you have an obligation to your 
employees to try to get the best deal out of this that you guys can be 
proud of and maximize your profits.

I said: As a Senator who cares about the economic development and job 
creation in my State, I want you to be profitable. I want you to be 
successful.

So I feel some obligation too. But I went on to add that we have an 
obligation here, as does the Presiding Officer, my friend from 
Pennsylvania, who is going to speak in a minute, we have an obligation 
that goes beyond that which our CEO feels, or other CEOs feel. We have 
an obligation to make sure we do reduce our reliance on foreign oil. 
The car companies, in all honesty, don't have that obligation. We have 
an obligation to make sure the air we breathe is cleaner. We have an 
obligation to make sure the threat of global warming is diminished, not 
increased. They don't have that requirement, as we do. That is our job.

It is not enough for us, though, to say to the car companies: You 
have to eat your spinach. You have to go out there and make the tough 
decisions all by yourself to raise fuel efficiency standards. I think 
we have an obligation in the Federal Government and in other levels of 
Government as well to help them. It shouldn't be them doing this all by 
themselves; we have an obligation to help them. I mention maybe four 
ways where we are trying to help them in the legislation that is before 
us today and that we will be voting on tomorrow and during the next 
couple of days.

With respect to making more energy efficient cars, here are some ways 
we can help the industry. One is through basic research and development 
investments. If we go back a few years, we have invested a lot of money 
in fuel cell technologies, as my colleagues know. In the legislation 
before us, the underlying bill on CAFE standards, we authorized the 
expenditure of $50 million a year over the next 5 years for new battery 
technology, for a new generation of lithium batteries, so the kind of 
cars the majority leader was talking about a few minutes ago, so we can 
actually build them, actually build the Chevrolet Volt. The Chevrolet 
Volt, the car I was talking about earlier, the coolest car at the auto 
show, a flex-fuel, plug-in hybrid, you plug it in, charge the battery 
at night from your house, go out the next day, drive maybe 30, 40 miles 
before you have to recharge again. If you get to work before that time, 
plug it in at work. In the meantime, when you put on your brakes, it is 
a traditional hybrid. You put on your brakes and recharge the battery.

But in the Chevrolet Volt, it actually carries with it an auxiliary 
power unit. The auxiliary power unit doesn't run the car, it charges 
the battery. It can be fuel cell powered, it could be biofuels diesel, 
it could be an ethanol internal combustion engine recharging the 
battery, and the battery running the wheels.

I saw a headline in the local paper in my State a month ago. It was a 
picture of one of the top folks at GM standing alongside the Chevrolet 
Volt and talking about this vehicle, which they hope to have on the 
road by the early part of the next decade, to get over 100 miles per 
gallon. That is not the entire fleet, it is one vehicle, but that is 
100 miles per gallon. If we can do that, 100 miles per gallon or even 
80 or 90 or 70 for the Chevrolet Volt and the kind of things our 
majority leader saw today, the fuel efficiencies there, if it is even a 
half or a third of what he saw, the idea of getting 35 miles per gallon 
for a total fleet in 2020 is not a pipedream, it is realistic. I am 
convinced that to the extent our auto manufacturers are positioned to 
build more energy efficient cars, to at least have some of them, they 
make themselves more competitive in the world environment.

But I was talking about the ways we can help, the Federal Government 
can help our industry to meet these higher standards. One, Federal 
investments in basic R&D. Whether it is for fuel cells several years 
ago or whether it is new battery technology, we are putting in about 
$40 million this year. I hope next year it will be 50 and the next 5 
years after that at $50 million a year.

Second, another way we can help is to use the Federal Government's 
purchasing power to help commercialize these new technologies. We are 
going to be building and putting out on the road a new generation, 
next-generation hybrid Durango and a next-generation hybrid Chrysler 
Aspen. Currently they are internal combustion engines. They don't get 
20 miles per gallon. They are high teens for fuel economy. But starting 
sometime by the middle of next year we will have on the road hybrid 
Durangos and hybrid Chrysler Aspens, the fuel economy of which will be 
increased by 40 percent over current levels--a 40-percent increase. I 
want to see--and I know others of my colleagues want to see--when the 
Federal Government goes out and buys--and we buy a lot of vehicles 
every year on the civilian side and on the defense side--I want to have 
included in the legislation we pass something that says some small 
percentage, some modest percentage of the vehicles we are going to be 
buying, anyway, should be invested in highly energy efficient new 
technology cars or trucks or vans, and their reaction to have the 
opportunity to do that in the context of the underlying legislation.

We are going to take up the Defense authorization bill in a couple of 
weeks and we will have an opportunity to do the same thing in terms of 
using the Government's purchasing power on the military side to 
commercialize these more energy efficient technologies in the cars, 
trucks, and vans that the military buys.

A third way the Federal Government can help the auto companies meet 
these more stringent standards, in addition to investments in R&D, in 
addition to the vehicular purchases of the Government to commercialize 
technologies, is with respect to tax credits. In the Energy bill 
adopted in 2005, we have energy tax credits that say if you buy a 
highly energy-efficient hybrid vehicle, you get a tax credit of $300 to 
almost $3,500 for your purchase. There is a similar provision in the 
same bill that says to folks who buy highly energy-efficient, diesel-
powered vehicles with very low emissions that they can get the same 
kind of tax breaks, $300 to roughly $3,500.

As it turns out, almost all of the hybrids, incentivized by those tax 
credits, are made in other countries. So we have tax incentives to 
encourage people to buy hybrids from other countries. Shame on us. 
Hopefully, in the next couple years we will put American hybrids on the 
road and incentivize people to buy American-made hybrids, such as the 
Durango and the Chrysler Aspen that will be produced less than a year 
from now. No American manufacturer is making today, nor will they next 
year, diesel-powered vehicles with emission levels low enough to 
qualify under the 2005 legislation.



One of the changes that has been agreed to and is in the Finance 
Committee's package, Mr. President--and you are a member of the Finance 
Committee--one of the provisions the committee adopted in the finance 
language that accompanies the Energy bill allows the low-emission, 
highly energy-efficient Chrysler products that are being manufactured 
and sold in this country this year, for 1 year--that will be next 
year--their products will qualify not for the full tax credit but for 
about three-quarters of the tax credit just for 1 year. After that, 
they have to be very low emissions starting in 2009, which is as it 
should be.

That is something we can do to incentivize folks to buy vehicles made 
in this country that have low emissions and are highly efficient. The 
more energy efficient, the bigger the tax credit.

The fourth and last point we can do in the way of helping the 
industry is, there is a flex-fuel mandate that says some of the 
vehicles we build in this country have to be capable of running on 
ethanol or some kind of fuel other than traditional petroleum. However, 
as my colleagues know, today, if you drive around this country and have 
one of these vehicles that can run on ethanol, it is hard to find a 
pump. It is hard to find a pump in Colorado, Pennsylvania, Delaware, or 
any other State, except Minnesota where I think they have 400 gas 
stations that actually have ethanol. But it is hard to find a fueling 
station where we can actually fill up with something other than 
gasoline.

There needs to be included in this legislation something that 
mandates the oil companies, just as we did 20, 25, 30 years ago on 
unleaded gas, so the people who have vehicles that are capable of 
running on renewable fuel can actually find a place to fill up.

Similarly with hydrogen, as we move to the point of building more 
hydrogen-powered vehicles. It doesn't do us any good if we don't have 
hydrogen fueling stations in this country. The Federal Government has 
an obligation to make sure that fuel is available too.

Those are four actions the Government can do, and I hope will do, in 
the context of this legislation before us: One, investments in R&D, in 
this case new battery technology; two, use Federal Government 
purchasing power to help companies to commercialize this new 
technology; three, use tax credits to incentivize people to buy the 
vehicles once they are produced, more energy-efficient vehicles 
produced; and, finally, hydrogen infrastructure so people who buy flex-
fuel vehicles can find the product, the stations where they can fill 
up.

The last point I want to make, and it goes back to my conversation 
with my friend who is a CEO of one of these domestic auto companies. I 
mentioned he has an obligation to his shareholders and employees. I am 
sure he cares about the quality of air. I am sure he cares about our 
dependence on foreign oil. That is not his day job. That is our day 
job, so we should focus on it as we debate these issues.

My colleague from Colorado who is presiding, and my colleague from 
Pennsylvania who is waiting patiently for me to wrap up--and I have 
been to funerals for people from our State who have died in Iraq or 
Afghanistan. We have tried to console family members. I was in Iraq 
over the weekend. We have 160,000 men and women there today. They are 
in harm's way as I speak. We are so dependent on troubled parts of the 
world for oil, unstable parts of the world for oil, where we have men 
and women at risk, where we lost lives yesterday and probably lost 
lives today and probably will tomorrow.

I think of a member of my staff, Sean Barney, who worked with me 
since 2000 when I ran for the Senate. Sean decided he wanted to go into 
the Marines. He joined the Marines and went through basic training. 
This is a guy with an undergraduate degree from Swarthmore and a 
graduate degree from Columbia who decided he wanted to be a marine.


A couple years ago, he went to basic training and became a PFC and 
ended up in Anbar Province, in the streets of Falluja, shot by a sniper 
in the neck which severed his carotid artery. He, by all rights, should 
be dead. He lived, miraculously. He has some degree of disability in 
his right arm, right shoulder, right hand, but he is alive.

When I have visited in Iraq, I had a chance to visit with a bunch of 
National Guard troops. We have them over there from Colorado and 
Pennsylvania too--folks from the 198th Signal Battalion. I was their 
commander in chief when I was Governor for 8 years. I have a special 
affection and devotion to them. I wanted to make sure they come home 
safely.

When I got home early Monday morning, I went to a sendoff for 150 
members of one of our military police units. They were heading on to 
Fort Dix. They are at Fort Dix today and then on to Iraq.

I guess the point I am making is, while we want to make sure our 
domestic auto industry is successful and is profitable, and we have a 
good, strong auto manufacturing base, I want to make sure we stop 
sending men and women around the world to these troubled spots that 
have large amounts of oil deposits. And we are concerned about that 
situation. That is something of which we need to be mindful. For me, it 
figures into this equation and this debate.

I close by saying, we will have a chance to debate these issues 
tomorrow morning, and we will have a chance to vote on the language in 
the underlying bill, maybe with a change from an amendment Senator 
Stevens and I have offered and maybe will be adopted, or maybe with the 
more far-reaching change negotiated and developed by our colleagues, 
Senators Pryor, Levin, Stabenow, and Bond. At the end of the day, 
though, when we pass this legislation and send it on to the House, it 
is so important that it moves in a meaningful way toward reducing our 
dependence on foreign oil; that in a meaningful way it reduces the 
emissions of harmful matter into our air; and in a real way it also 
enhances and doesn't undermine the competitiveness of our domestic auto 
industry.

It is not easy to do all three of those goals, but those are the 
three things we need to do. If we can send from the Senate to the House 
at the end of this week or early next week legislation that is actually 
faithful to those three goals, we will have done our work and done good 
work.

Tomorrow and the next day will be the test to see if we can measure 
up to those standards. I hope we can.

I apologize to my colleague from Pennsylvania for going on as long as 
I have. I thank him for his patience.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.
