# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `52f403484ca5e0e5f49f2f3eab9ac6ba`
`Mr. BYRD â€” 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I will vote no on the nomination of GEN 
David H. Petraeus, the current commander of the Multi-National Force--
Iraq, to be Commander, U.S. Central Command. I was unable to attend 
General Petraeus' nomination hearing before the Armed Services 
Committee because I was managing the supplemental appropriations bill 
on the Senate floor, but I reviewed his testimony. I also posed a 
number of questions to General Petraeus after the hearing, and studied 
his responses.

I appreciate General Petraeus' evident intelligence and his expertise 
and experience in Iraq. He wrote the book on countering insurgencies 
for the Army. He led the 101st Airborne Division during the V Corps 
drive to Baghdad in 2003. He established the Multi-National Security 
Transition Command Iraq in 2004. He has served as Commander of the 
Multi-National Force--Iraq since January 2007. He is the architect of 
the so-called surge strategy that is even now being played out in Iraq.

The surge strategy is, in fact, one of the reasons why I believe 
General Petraeus should remain in his current position as Commander of 
the Multi-National Force--Iraq. Marshal Ferdinand Foch, Supreme 
Commander of the Allied Armies at the conclusion of World War I, 
observed in his 1920 book, ''Precepts and Judgments'', that ''Great 
results in war are due to the commander. History is therefore right in 
making generals responsible for victories--in which case they are 
glorified; and for defeats--in which case they are disgraced.'' The 
book is still out on the success or failure of the surge strategy. 
General Petraeus should bring it to its conclusion before he is 
rewarded with a promotion.

Continuity of command has been a problem in Iraq. Historically, when 
the United States has been involved in protracted conflicts, continuity 
of command has been maintained, be it Generals Eisenhower or MacArthur 
during World War II, or General Westmoreland during the Vietnam 
conflict. General Petraeus has only been in his current position for 18 
months. Since President Bush believes that General Petraeus has done 
well in his current position, but he, Secretary Gates and General 
Petraeus have all described the security situation in Iraq as tenuous 
and reversible, it does not seem prudent to remove the mastermind 
behind the fragile successes that have been thus far achieved.

Almost 1 year ago, on July 14, 2007, President Bush said in a radio 
address that, ''When America starts drawing down our forces in Iraq, it 
will be because our military commanders say the conditions on the 
ground are right--not because pollsters say it would be good 
politics.'' That strategy does not work well, however, when you keep 
changing commanders. No new commander is going to come in and say 
'reduce the troop levels on my watch,' because if, through their lack 
of familiarity with the conditions on the ground, they are wrong, that 
defeat would be their disgrace, just as Marshal Foch observed in 1920. 
So, a year after President Bush's statement, troop levels in Iraq are 
only just returning to something close to the pre-surge levels of 
January 2007, when General Petraeus assumed command in Iraq. If, as 
General Petraeus has said, no further decisions on additional drawdowns 
will be made until sometime in the fall of 2008, a new commander will 
be called upon to make that decision.

I am also concerned about General Petraeus' unwillingness to address 
questions regarding other regional issues, such as in Afghanistan or 
Iran, during his nomination hearing. Such evasiveness is not politic; 
it is troubling at a time when news reports suggest that the Taliban is 
resurgent in Afghanistan and that President Bush may be contemplating 
military action against Iran. Despite the press of his responsibilities 
in Iraq, General Petraeus must be concerned with how other operations 
or other political considerations in the same theater affect his 
options in Iraq. Equally, he must consider how political changes in his 
chain of command might affect his operations in Iraq, yet he will not 
admit even the existence of contingency plans for potential troop 
drawdowns that might be required by a new administration. If the 
competing priorities for manpower and materiel are to be sorted out at 
the CENTCOM level, it must be done with a clear understanding of what 
is possible and what is achievable, by someone willing to take a stand 
in support of all the men and women who will be called upon to carry 
out those priorities, not by someone who only salutes and carries out 
orders or by someone who knows only a fraction of the full situation. 
General Petraeus' career will be judged in large part by his role in 
the Iraq conflict; his reticence to address other regional issues 
raises questions about his willingness to devote the focus and the 
resources needed to address them properly.

Finally, the repeated rotations of U.S. soldiers to Iraq and 
Afghanistan


are taking a toll on our military. Elements of the 4th Infantry 
Division, 1st Infantry Division, 1st Cavalry Division, and the 172nd 
Infantry Brigade are facing a third tour in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Elements of the 82nd Airborne Division are facing a fourth tour. With 
these repeated tours and the continuation of the ''stop loss'' policy 
of forcibly retaining troops on active duty in order to maintain unit 
integrity necessitated by the strain this war is placing on our forces, 
it is difficult to understand why these troops should not be entitled 
to a continuity of command. The troops appreciate the effectiveness of 
working together as a unit when confronting danger on a regular basis. 
They deserve a leadership corps that, like them, functions together as 
a unit and stay together.

More than 12,000 servicemembers are currently affected by ''stop 
loss'' orders that prohibit them from retiring or leaving the service 
even though they are eligible for retirement or their terms of 
enlistment have expired. That total includes 6,800 active-duty Army 
personnel, about 3,800 Army National Guard personnel and almost 1,500 
Army Reservists who are not allowed to leave military service despite 
having fulfilled their service obligations.

LTG James Thurman, the Army's deputy chief of staff for operations, 
has said that he hoped, but could not promise, that if the demand for 
troops stabilized at around 15 combat brigades, the use of the ''stop 
loss'' could be ended by the end of fiscal year 2009, or the beginning 
of fiscal year 2010--in September or October of 2009, more than a year 
from now. ''But demand exceeds supply right now,'' he stated. For the 
12,000 affected servicemembers, and those who will become eligible to 
retire or leave service between now and late 2009, this amounts to 
another 18 months of forced conscription. Until the practice of ''stop 
loss'' is ended, perhaps General Petraeus and other military leaders 
should remain in their current assignments until the U.S. can 
transition the responsibility for the security of Iraq to Iraqis.