# GENERATIONS INVIGORATING VOLUNTEERISM AND EDUCATION ACT
## `532ef8469c04ce72875de320b0d80ccc`
`Mr. McKEON â€” 18 March 2009`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I 
rise in support of the Hunter amendment.

The gentleman that is the sponsor of this amendment speaks with great 
expertise when he talks of military and veterans affairs, having joined 
the Marine Corps the day after 9/11 and having served two tours in Iraq 
and one in Afghanistan. In fact, when he signed up to run for Congress, 
he was recalled up, sent back to Afghanistan, and couldn't even 
campaign. So I thank him for offering this amendment.

Since passage of the original GI Bill, we have provided educational 
benefits to soldiers returning from battle. Helping these brave men and 
women pursue a college education is a small price to pay for their 
valiant service to our Nation. These benefits are not a government 
handout; rather, they're a small token of our appreciation for their 
willingness to serve. Unfortunately, the education awards under the GI 
Bill may actually be held against veterans participating in national 
service by sometimes decreasing their ability to receive other 
educational awards.

I support the Hunter amendment because it restores fairness in how 
veterans' educational awards are treated. This amendment is consistent 
with bipartisan reforms enacted last year to the Higher Education Act, 
and it is consistent with our commitment to the veterans who have 
already given so much to our Nation.