# PROVIDING FOR APPROVAL OF U.S.-AUSTRALIA NUCLEAR ENERGY AGREEMENT
## `53398ece50a4edeb786cd08127da568b`
`Ms. RICHARDSON â€” 2 December 2010`

---


Ms. RICHARDSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6411, 
which would approve the cooperation agreement between the government of 
the United States and the government of Australia concerning the 
peaceful use of nuclear energy. This important legislation will renew a 
long-standing agreement between one of our strongest allies and promote 
the safe trade of nuclear energy products.

I thank Chairman Berman for his leadership in bringing this bill to 
the floor. I also thank the sponsor of this legislation, Ilena Ros-
Lehtinen, for her commitment to the safe, secure trade and peaceful use 
of nuclear energy products.

Mr. Speaker, the United States has had an ongoing civilian nuclear 
cooperation agreement with Australia since 1957. Australia sells around 
36 percent of its $1 billion in uranium exports to the United States. 
This accounts for 13 percent of our uranium supplies. This cooperation 
agreement also facilitates Australia's sale of uranium to other 
countries that will use it with technology made in the United States.

The civilian nuclear cooperation agreement with Australia is set to 
renew automatically upon the 90th day of continuous session since the 
President's May 5 transmittal of the renewal agreement. However, it is 
nonetheless appropriate for us to come together to affirm this 
agreement with Australia, one of our closest and most strategically 
important allies.

The United States and Australia have a strong relationship rooted in 
our shared values, historical ties, and strategic outlook. Our 
militaries conduct joint military exercises and Australian troops are 
currently in Afghanistan


fighting alongside U.S. service men and women. In addition, Australia 
has an excellent record on nuclear safety and has worked with the 
United States to fight nuclear proliferation. Australia's efforts to 
reduce proliferation have made them one of the world's leaders on 
global nuclear security and arms reduction.

Mr. Speaker, for these reasons I urge my colleagues to join me in 
showing their support for this important agreement with Australia. This 
cooperation agreement is good for our relationship with an old ally, 
good for our energy sector, and good for international nuclear 
security.
