# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `53bac1f1c0ca0a87eb4722a233c1eadd`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, shortly we will have an extremely 
important vote in terms of our ability to deal with judicial 
confirmations in the future. There has been widespread bipartisan 
concern that the confirmation process has descended to a point with 
which most of the Members on both sides of the aisle are uncomfortable. 
We will have an interesting test shortly as to whether the Senate can 
use cloture not to defeat a judge but to move a nomination forward. 
That is the way it has been done in the past. We have had controversial 
judicial nominations from time to time over the years, controversial 
with a few but not all of the Senate. The way cloture was used in those 
situations was to advance a nomination, not to stop it. I am reminded 
when Senator Lott was the majority leader, there were a couple of 
controversial nominations from California. His view was they were 
entitled to an up-or-down vote. We invoked cloture on the nomination. I 
remember voting for cloture because I believed judges were entitled to 
an up-or-down vote and then not supporting the judge on final passage.

We have before us the nomination of a Mississippi lawyer named Leslie 
Southwick. He wanted to serve his country in the Armed Forces. At 42, 
he was too old to do so. But service to others is a duty Leslie 
Southwick has always taken very seriously, whether in the Justice 
Department or on the State bench or with Habitat for Humanity or in 
doing charity work for inner-city communities. So in 1992, 42-year-old 
Leslie Southwick sought an age waiver to join the U.S. Army Reserves. 
The country had the good sense and the good fortune to grant this 
request.

Leslie Southwick continued to serve in the Armed Forces after he was 
elected to the State court of appeals in 1994. He conscientiously 
performed his military and judicial duties, even using his vacation 
time from the court to satisfy the required service period in the 
Mississippi National Guard.

In 2003, LTC Southwick volunteered for a line combat unit, the 155th 
Separate Armor Brigade. His commanding officer, MG Harold A. Cross, 
notes that his decision ''was a courageous move; as it was widely known 
at the time that the 155th was nearly certain to mobilize for overseas 
duty in the near future.'' Colleagues such as attorney Brian Montague 
were not surprised. ''Despite the love of wife and children,'' Leslie 
Southwick volunteered for a line combat unit over a safer one ''because 
of a commitment to service to country above self-interest.''

In August of 2004, Leslie Southwick's unit mobilized in support of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. His commanding officer states he distinguished 
himself at forward bases near Najaf. Another officer, LTC Norman Gene 
Hortman, Jr., described Leslie Southwick's service in Iraq as follows:




 Service in a combat zone is stressful and challenging, 


 often times bringing out the best or the worst in a person. 


 Leslie Southwick endured mortar and rocket attacks, travel 


 through areas plagued with IEDs, extremes in temperature, 


 harsh living conditions . . .--the typical stuff of Iraq. He 


 shouldered a heavy load of regular JAG Officer duties which 


 he performed excellently. He also took on the task of 


 handling the claims of numerous Iraqi civilians who had been 


 injured or had property losses due to accidents involving the 


 U.S. military . . .



 Leslie always listened to these Iraqi claimants patiently 


 and treated them with the utmost respect and kindness. He did 


 this not just out of a sense of duty but because he is a 


 genuinely good and caring person. His attitude left a very 


 positive impression on all those that Leslie came in contact 


 with, especially Iraqi civilians he helped. This in turn 


 helped ease tensions in our unit's area of operations . . . 


 and ultimately, saved American lives.


Lieutenant Colonel Hortman concludes that Leslie Southwick ''has the 
right stuff''--the right stuff--for the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals: 
''profound intelligence, good judgment, broad experience, and an 
unblemished reputation.'' He adds:




 I know him and can say these things without reservation. 


 Anyone who says otherwise simply does not know him.


Stuart Taylor writes in the National Journal that Leslie Southwick 
''wears a distinctive badge of courageous service to his country,'' and 
that he ''is a professionally well-qualified and personally admirable'' 
nominee to the Fifth Circuit.

Judge Southwick does not seek thanks or notoriety or charity for his 
military and other civic service. He asks to be judged fairly--to be 
judged on the facts, to be judged on his record. It is the same 
standard he has applied to others as a judge, a military officer, and a 
teacher. It is a standard for which he is well known and admired. By 
that standard, he is superbly fit to continue serving his country, this 
time on the Fifth Circuit. Senators Cochran and Lott, his home State 
Senators, know this. They are strongly behind him. As everyone knows, 
his peers on the State bar know this. They honored him as one of the 
State's finest jurists, saying he is ''an example of judicial 
excellence; a leader in advancing the quality and integrity of justice; 
and a person of high ideals, character and integrity.''

The American Bar Association knows this. It has twice given him its 
highest rating: ''well-qualified.'' In doing so, the ABA found him to 
be exemplary in the areas of ''compassion,'' ''open-mindedness,'' 
''freedom from bias and commitment to equal justice under law.''

Democrats on the Judiciary Committee knew this too. Last fall all of 
them--every single one--looked at his record and approved him for a 
lifetime position to the district court. Congress adjourned before he 
could be confirmed, and Judge Southwick was renominated to fill a 
judicial emergency on the Fifth Circuit. Two things then occurred. 
First, the ABA increased his rating--increased his rating--from ''well-
qualified'' to ''unanimously well-qualified.'' In other words, not a 
single person on the ABA committee found him anything other than the 
most qualified nominee possible. Second, in August, the committee 
favorably reported his nomination to the floor with bipartisan support.



Unfortunately, some of our colleagues on the other side who had 
supported his nomination to the Federal bench last fall seem to have 
changed their mind. Since there is no material change in Judge 
Southwick's credentials other than the ABA actually giving him an even 
higher rating for the circuit bench than they gave him for the district 
bench, the sudden change is indeed puzzling.

Critics now point to two cases out of 7,000, neither of which Judge 
Southwick wrote, and both of which existed when the committee 
unanimously approved him last fall. One of our colleagues even asserts 
that because these two cases create a perception among some outside 
groups about potential unfairness, this ''perceived fairness'' standard 
should determine our vote on Judge Southwick.

That is a standard I would say I would hate to have applied to 
nominations by a Democratic President by Republican Senators. And 
remember, we are setting a standard here that will apply not only to 
this nomination but to other nominations in the future.

The notion that mere perception, not reality, should determine 
whether someone is confirmed is troubling, to say the least. We expect 
the judges we confirm to rule based on the facts. We should not judge 
their fitness for office based on perception rather than the facts. In 
the case of Judge Southwick, the sudden ''perception'' about his 
fairness is driven by those who do not even know him, and it is amply 
disproven by his long record and by those who know him very well.

But more broadly, if we start opposing well-qualified nominees 
because outside groups have manufactured an unfair perception of them, 
then we will have established a precedent that will affect us all, as I 
indicated a minute ago, and for the worse--regardless of who is in the 
White House and which home State Senators support a nomination. Is the 
standard going to be around here the perception created by some outside 
group? I think that is a standard that would be very dangerous, no 
matter who is in the White House.

I urge my colleagues not to undo the good work and goodwill that 
brought us back from the precipice we had almost descended into a few 
years ago on judicial confirmations. I urge them to think hard about 
the ramifications of their vote for the future, and to vote for cloture 
on the Southwick nomination.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.