# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `543d7cd9c4f2f87d01c0c09c287a9f75`
`Mr. FEINGOLD â€” 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Madam President, last week, as the administration was 
trying to convince us to stay the latest course in Iraq, it made very 
little mention of the fact that in every month this year, January 
through August, substantially more U.S. troops have died in Iraq than 
in the corresponding month in 2006.

It also had little to say about the British survey released last week 
which found that nearly one in two Baghdad households has lost at least 
one member to war-related violence and that 22 percent of surveyed 
households across the nation have endured at least one death. Based on 
the number of households in Iraq, this could mean that upwards of 1 
million civilian deaths have occurred as a result of the war in Iraq.

Despite these facts, this administration assures us that violence is 
decreasing and that the security situation in Iraq is getting better. 
They tell us success is within reach and that we are closer to 
attaining our objectives, even though those objectives keep changing--
most recently from supporting a strong central government to a more 
bottom-up and local approach. Just give us more time, they say, just as 
they said in 2004 and in 2005 and in 2006. The slogan may be different. 
We have had ''Mission Accomplished'' and ''Stay the Course'' and ''The 
New Way Forward'' and now ''Return on Success.'' But each time, we are 
told we are on the right road until, that is, we reach another dead end 
and then a new slogan is invented to justify our open-ended presence in 
Iraq. As the administration blunders from one mistake to another, brave 
American troops are being injured and killed in Iraq, our military is 
being overstretched, countless billions of dollars are being spent, the 
American people are growing more and more frustrated and outraged, and 
our national security, quite frankly, is being undermined.

Our top national security priority should be going after al-Qaida and 
its affiliates. They are waging a global campaign from north Africa to 
Southeast Asia. We cannot afford to continue to focus so much of our 
resources on one single country without a legitimate strategy for 
dealing with the threats posed by al-Qaida's global reach.

Instead of seeing the big picture, instead of placing Iraq in the 
actual context of a comprehensive and global campaign against a 
ruthless enemy, this administration persists in the tragic mistake it 
made over 4 years ago when it took this country to war in Iraq. That 
war has led to the deaths of more than 3,700 Americans and perhaps as 
many as 1 million Iraqi civilians, it has deepened instability 
throughout the Middle East, it has jeopardized our credibility, and it 
has clearly alienated our friends and allies.

This summer's declassified National Intelligence Estimate confirms 
that al-Qaida remains the most serious threat to the United States. 
Indeed, key elements of that threat have been regenerated, have even 
been enhanced. While we have been distracted by the war in Iraq, al-
Qaida has protected, rebuilt, and strengthened its safe haven in the 
border region between Pakistan and Afghanistan and has increased its 
collaboration with regional terrorist groups in other parts of the 
world. With its safe haven, al-Qaida is working to expand its network 
and, therefore, its ability to strike Western targets, including ones 
right here in the United States.

The administration has much to say about al-Qaida in Iraq. They will 
not tell you al-Qaida in Iraq is an al-Qaida affiliate which was 
spawned by this disastrous war, however, and they would rather not talk 
about al-Qaida's safe haven in the Pakistan-Afghanistan region or even 
recognize the serious global threat that continues to exist and that 
has even been strengthened while our troops are dying in Iraq. That 
tells you all you need to know about the administration's painfully 
narrow focus on Iraq.

The war in Iraq is not making us safer. It is making us more 
vulnerable. It is stretching our military to the breaking point and 
inflaming tensions and anti-American sentiment in an important and 
volatile part of the world. It is playing into the hands of our 
enemies, as even the State Department recognized when it said the war 
in Iraq is ''used as a rallying cry for radicalization and extremist 
activity in neighboring countries.''

Of course, it would be easy to put all the blame on the 
administration, but I am afraid Congress is complicit too. Congress 
authorized the war. Congress has so far allowed it to continue despite 
strong efforts from the new Democratic leadership. Now, once again, it 
is up to us in Congress to reverse this President's intractable policy, 
to listen to the American people, to save American lives, and to 
protect our Nation's security by redeploying our troops from Iraq. We 
have the power and the responsibility to act, and we must act now.

I am not suggesting that we abandon the people of Iraq or that we 
ignore the political stalemate there and the rapidly unfolding 
humanitarian crisis which has displaced more than 4 million Iraqis from 
their homes. These critical issues require the attention and 
constructive engagement of U.S.


policymakers, key regional players, and the international community. 
But such turbulence cannot and will not be resolved by a massive 
military engagement. The administration's surge is another dead end. 
The surge was supposedly aimed at creating the space necessary for 
political compromise, but the Iraqi Government is no more reconciled 
than it was when the surge began, and American troops are dying in 
greater numbers--greater numbers--than last year or the year before.

That is why I am again offering an amendment, with the majority 
leader, Harry Reid, and Senators Leahy, Boxer, Whitehouse, Harkin, 
Sanders, Schumer, Dodd, Durbin, and Menendez. Our amendment, which is 
similar to legislation we introduced earlier this year, would require 
the President to begin safely redeploying U.S. troops from Iraq within 
90 days of enactment, and it would require the redeployment to be 
completed by June 30, 2008.

At that point, with our troops safely out of Iraq--and I repeat 
that--at that point, with our troops safely out of Iraq, funding for 
the war would be ended, with four narrow exceptions: providing security 
for U.S. Government personnel and infrastructure, training the Iraqi 
security forces, providing training and equipment to U.S. service men 
and women to ensure their safety and security, and conducting targeted 
operations limited in duration and scope against members of al-Qaida 
and other affiliated international terrorist organizations.

By enacting Feingold-Reid, we can finally focus on what should be our 
top national security priority--waging a global campaign against al-
Qaida and its affiliates. Our amendment will allow targeted missions 
against al-Qaida in Iraq, but it will not allow the administration to 
maintain substantial numbers of U.S. troops in that country.


The amendment will also allow training of Iraqis who have taken steps 
to address serious concerns about the loyalties of the ISF. The 
Government Accountability Office has found that the ISF have been 
infiltrated by Shia militia, and General Jones's recent report 
indicated ISF are compromised by militia and sectarian alliances. In 
addition, there have been several reports of ISF attacks upon U.S. 
troops. That is why we do not allow training for Iraqis who have been 
involved in sectarian violence or attacks upon Americans.

We also prevent the ''training'' exception from being used as a 
loophole to keep tens of thousands of U.S. troops in Iraq. We do this 
by stipulating that U.S. troops providing training cannot be embedded 
or take part in combat operations with the ISF. Training should be 
training, not a ruse for keeping American troops on the front lines of 
the Iraqi civil war. Of course, U.S. troops can take part in combat 
operations specifically against al-Qaida and its affiliates.

Some of my colleagues will oppose this amendment. That is their 
right. But I hope none of them will suggest that Feingold-Reid would 
hurt the troops by denying them equipment or support. Why do I hope 
they don't say that? Because there is no truth to the argument. None. 
This is an absolutely phony argument used time and again to try to get 
away from what this amendment actually does. Passing this legislation 
will result in our troops being safely redeployed by the deadline we 
set. At that point, with the troops safely out of Iraq, funding for the 
war would end, with the narrow exceptions I listed. That is what 
Congress did in 1993 when it voted overwhelmingly to bring our military 
mission in Somalia to an end by setting a deadline after which funding 
for that mission would end. And that is what Congress must do again to 
terminate the President's unending mission in Iraq.

In order to make clear our legislation will protect the troops, we 
have added language requiring that redeployment ''shall be carried out 
in a manner that protects the safety and security of United States 
troops,'' and we have specified that nothing in this amendment will 
prevent U.S. troops from receiving the training or equipment they need 
''to ensure, maintain, or improve their safety and security.'' So I 
hope we will not be hearing any more phony arguments about troops on 
the battlefield somehow not getting the supplies they need.

Other amendments might set goals for redeployment or merely call for 
a change in mission, but those proposals do not go far enough. Nor is 
it sufficient to pass legislation that allows substantial numbers of 
U.S. troops to remain in Iraq indefinitely. As the President's Iraq 
policy continues unchecked, we need to invoke the power and the 
responsibility bestowed upon us by the Constitution and bring this to a 
close.

This war doesn't make sense. It is hurting our country, our military, 
and our credibility. It is time for this war to end. The American 
people know this, and they are looking to us to act. I hope we will not 
let them down again.

Madam President, I reserve the remainder of my time. I yield the 
floor.