# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `54fb21e48af2c9932631be9365a39682`
`Mr. CLEAVER â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, as I began to consider the comments I would 
make during this debate tonight on the occupation, escalation and 
gravitation of the U.S. military action in Iraq, I concluded that my 
visit to this well must somehow echo the threat and frustration of the 
people who sent me to represent them in the people's House.

Tomorrow, the United States of America should begin a massive and 
voter-mandated salvaging operation in Iraq. Yes, as bad as conditions 
have gotten, there are important and valuable things that could be 
salvaged. A tarnished international image clings to a nation like a 
shadow to a human being. It follows a nation to the next


world crisis. It cannot be blamed for faulty intelligence, and it 
spoils opportunities to influence a world desperate for direction. 
Henceforth, we must conduct our foreign policy in a manner which 
salvages our sunken international image.

Because of the way we launched a long-range military action in Iraq, 
our prestige among the community of nations has surely suffered. 
Nothing deflates as a punctured international image. We can salvage our 
image not only by de-escalating in Iraq but also by reestablishing 
desperately needed dialogue with all the sovereign nations in the 
neighborhood with Iraq. It takes many, many people, and not just one to 
put a policy together.

Now, with regard to peace in the Middle East, it has become crystal 
clear that the United States cannot whistle a symphony.



It will take an orchestra of many international players willing to 
make music in the same key. The days of the international soloist or a 
conductor without an orchestra are past. We must salvage our 
relationship with the family of nations. We must salvage what is left 
of our Treasury.

Mr. Speaker, for most Americans war does not pay, but it must be paid 
for. And, to date, we have spent billions and billions of dollars that 
could have been spent for valuable programs to set this Nation on the 
right course. We must salvage soldiers. Yes, thousands of brave young 
U.S. soldiers have been killed, and Iraqis are dying weekly by the 
hundreds. If this conflict continues, there will be only two classes of 
young people, one half in graves, the other half in hospitals.

Some have said this conflict will last for decades. Nevertheless, 
that kind of policy or lack thereof has caused young Americans to ask: 
Will we ever see the last of this war, or will it see the last of us?

The Kansas City Chiefs is my team. The general manager, Carl 
Peterson, would never go to the sports editors of the local media and 
admonish them not to criticize the game plan of Coach Herman Edwards, 
because to do so would demoralize the players. Such a warning by the 
general manager would be ludicrous, if not loony. Why? Because the 
players of the Kansas City Chiefs are professionals who cannot be so 
easily defamed. And, friends, neither can the men and women who form 
the fiercest fighting force in the history of this planet.

After all the ethnic and sectarian human butchering, after all the 
billions spent, after all the children of God killed, after all the 
maimed who have been hospitalized, after all the dissenters who have 
been heard, after all the purple thumbs that have been raised, the war 
drum still throbs, the sabers still rattle, and the blood still flows. 
Yet, we can salvage the soul of the Nation, even though at this hour we 
seem to have lost our way.

Tomorrow, this Congress must adopt House Concurrent Resolution 63 as 
bold and beckoning to begin salvage operations.

Mr. Speaker, as I began to consider the comments I would make during 
the debate on the occupation, escalation, and gravitation of the U.S. 
military action in Iraq, I concluded that my visit to this well must 
somehow echo the fret and frustration of the people who sent me to 
represent them in The People's House.

For more than 132 years, the steamboat Arabia lay beneath the fathoms 
of the waters of the mighty Missouri River. Not until Bob and Florence 
Howley committed their life savings to a massive salvaging operation, 
did the rusting of this once stately riverboat cease. Today, the 
salvaged cargo of this retrieved vessel is on display in Kansas City's 
Historic River Market. Since I first walked into the Arabia Steamboat 
Museum in 1992, I have become a serious supporter of salvage 
operations. Anything of great value that is lost or damaged is worth 
salvaging.

Tomorrow, the United States of America should begin a massive and 
voter-mandated salvaging operation in Iraq. Yes, as bad as conditions 
have gotten, there are important and valuable things that can be 
salvaged.

A tarnished international image clings to a nation like a shadow to a 
human being. It follows a nation to the next world crisis, it cannot be 
blamed for faulty intelligence, and it spoils opportunities to 
influence a world desperate for direction. Henceforth, we must conduct 
our foreign policy in a manner which salvages our sunken international 
image. Because of the way we launched a Lone Ranger military action in 
Iraq, our prestige among the community of nations has surely suffered. 
Nothing deflates as fast as a punctured international image. We can 
salvage our image not only by de-escalating in Iraq, but also by re-
establishing desperately needed dialogue with all the sovereign nations 
in the neighborhood of Iraq. With regard to peace in the Middle East, 
it has become crystal clear that the U.S. cannot whistle a symphony. It 
will take an orchestra of many international players willing to make 
music in the same key. The days of the international soloist, or a 
conductor without an orchestra, are past. We must salvage our 
relationship with the family of nations.

We must salvage what is left of our treasury. Mr. Speaker, for most 
Americans, war does not pay, but it must be paid for. To date, we have 
appropriated $380 billion for the armed conflict in Iraq, and the 
President has requested an additional $142 billion in the FY08 
supplemental. With this amount of money, we could have fully funded No 
Child Left Behind and the COPS program (which places badly needed 
police on the streets in high crime neighborhoods). We must salvage 
respect from our noble veterans who, today, are outraged that they are 
showered with praise when they are in battle but blasted with neglect 
when they return home. Soon enough, they will discover that the 
President's recently submitted budget raises fees on veterans for their 
health costs by $355 million in FY08, $2.3 billion over 5 years, and 
$4.9 billion over 10 years. Those who serve--deserve!

We must salvage soldiers. Yes, thousands of brave young U.S. soldiers 
have been killed, and Iraqis are dying weekly by the hundreds. If this 
conflict continues, there will be only two classes of young people: one 
half in graves and the other half in hospitals. Some have said that 
this conflict will last for decades. Nevertheless, that kind of policy, 
or lack thereof, has caused young Americans to ask, ''Will we ever see 
the last of this war, or will it see the last of us?''

Let me address a part of this debate which has frustrated me because 
of its defective logic. Over and over again, many of my honorable 
colleagues have stood behind this distinguished desk and warned that 
the debate on House Concurrent Resolution 63 will demoralize our troops 
in Iraq. Nothing could be further from the truth. I will never accept 
the premise that U.S. troops are demoralized by the debate in a 
democracy. The President's stated goal in Iraq is to aid in creating a 
nation where citizens and public officials can debate in a robust 
democracy. And then to denounce debate in The People's House as 
demeaning or damaging? My friends, that denigrates the democracy we so 
proudly extol and that our troops valiantly fight to defend. We cannot 
lead others to the light while we stand in the dark.

The Kansas City Chiefs is my team. The General Manager, Carl 
Peterson, would never go to the sports editors of the local media and 
admonish them not to criticize the game plan of Coach Herman Edwards 
because it will demoralize the players. Such a warning by the General 
Manager would be ludicrous if not loonie. Why? Because the players of 
the Kansas City Chiefs are professionals who cannot be so easily 
defanged. And friends, neither can the men and women who form the 
fiercest fighting force in the history of Planet Earth.

After all the ethnic and sectarian human butchering, after all the 
billions spent, after all the children of God killed, after all the 
maimed who have been hospitalized, after all the dissenters who have 
been heard, after all the purple thumbs have been raised, the war drum 
is still throbbing, the sabers are still rattling and the blood is 
still flowing. Yet, we can salvage the soul of the nation even though 
at this hour we seem to have lost our way. Tomorrow, this Congress must 
adopt House Concurrent Resolution 63 as a bold beckoning to begin 
salvage operation.