# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `553ffb53e581ac99a03d3b074b881699`
`Mr. REID â€” 9 February 2010`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, it is hard to comprehend we have been 
working for weeks to get a couple people confirmed--actually four. One 
is the No. 3 person in the Pentagon. We just got that done, Clifford 
Stanley. The Secretary of Defense has been waiting for this person, as 
I have indicated, for weeks and weeks. This man is responsible for 
making sure the right troops go to Afghanistan and come back from Iraq. 
We finally got that done.

The nomination of Philip Goldberg I talked about before. He is 
Secretary Clinton's person to deal with intelligence matters coming 
before the Department of State. We finally got that done.

The sad part is we have two others on which we have been working. 
They were held up, we were told, by one Senator, but that is not the 
way it is. We have, for example, a woman, Caryn Wagner to be Under 
Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis with the Department of Homeland 
Security. That is being held up by the Republicans. No. Again, 
Secretary Napolitano will have to wait to have, in this vast Department 
of Homeland Security, someone in charge of intelligence.

What is that about? It is about people trying to destroy our 
country--homeland security. The most evil people in the world are 
trying to do harm to Americans in our homeland, but yet we cannot get a 
person confirmed who has come out of the committee overwhelmingly. They 
are holding him up because of something no one knows. But we know every 
day that goes by, the security of this Nation is in jeopardy because of 
this.

I might note, this person being held up in the Department of Homeland 
Security, the Senator holding this up, it is my understanding, the 
junior Senator from Oklahoma, voted for this nomination out of 
committee. But he is holding it up now because of other matters. He was 
nice enough to call me and tell me--I did not talk with him, but he 
called my office to indicate he was going to hold this nomination.

Laura Kennedy, a career member of the senior Foreign Service--her job 
is going to be to deal with disarmament. It is too bad the United 
States of America, a nuclear power in the world, does not have a 
representative of ambassadorial rank to represent the United States at 
disarmament conferences. How is that one? Why it is being held up has 
nothing to do with her qualifications or background. It is some other 
reason.

I have told the President enough is enough. He has the right, as 
President of the United States, to do recess appointments. It should be 
done. What is being done to this President is unfair. It has never been 
done before. We have had to file cloture on many Presidential 
nominations that President Bush never had to do.

It is very unfortunate that because of the storms that have hit our 
Nation's Capital, it has been very difficult to get things done. We are 
not going to be able to bring this up now until next week. Well, we 
can't do it next week because it is a recess, the Presidents Day 
recess, and we are out for the week. So we can come back in 10 days or 
a week and try again. In the meantime, we don't have anyone dealing 
with disarmament for our country; we don't have someone helping one of 
the most important offices in the country, which is homeland security, 
dealing with the intelligence office.

What is that about? Telephone conversations that are picked up about 
someone trying to come and blow up the Capitol or one of the buildings 
in New York or Los Angeles or Salt Lake City or Portland or Denver. We 
have agents who have infiltrated some of these gangs--I will use that 
term very loosely--these clandestine operations that are trying to do 
evil to the people in this country, and we don't have anyone heading 
that department. It is disgraceful.

The Republicans are holding up these people for reasons that have 
nothing to do with the background, morality, and competence of these 
people. They are just holding them up because they want to hold them 
up. We have had them held up for a number of weeks because they do not 
like a decision that has been made as to where a building is to be 
built. The Republicans have backed up the person who has been doing 
this because he wanted the building built in his State.

I would hope the American people understand what is going on here 
with this party of no. I have been a person who has gotten along very 
well in my career, Mr. President, being a very moderate person, trying 
to be someone who gets along with Democrats and Republicans, but I am 
obligated to speak out as to what is going on here, and I have only 
picked two of the numerous people being held up. There are scores of 
them being held up for reasons that have nothing to do with anything 
dealing with these people or how they will function once in office.

Frankly, I think the President should recess all of them--all of 
them. He has been given very little recognition for the importance of 
the job that he has been doing in trying to find the best people in 
America to fill these positions. No one can say Democrats did this when 
we were in the minority. We didn't do this. There were people held up, 
but this is something that is beyond the pale.
