# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `55a51f35bab8885dcf485f479ca5624b`
`Ms. WOOLSEY â€” 13 February 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, I am a proud member of the Foreign Affairs 
Committee, I am a member of the Progressive Caucus and the Out of Iraq 
Caucus, and I have been working to bring our troops home since before 
we sent them there.

Mr. Speaker, the decision to send more brave Americans into the Iraq 
grinder is an act of staggering arrogance for the President. Nearly 
two-thirds of our people think this is a deeply flawed, tragically 
misguided policy. They get it, Mr. Speaker. They can see that more 
troops won't stop the sectarian violence, because it is our very 
military presence that ignited this sectarian violence in the first 
place.

The human cost in Iraq has been devastating. By some estimates, 
several hundred thousand Iraq citizens have died, died for the cause of 
their own so-called liberation. No wonder a majority of Iraqis want the 
occupation to end.

As the late columnist Molly Ivins put it, ''Iraq is clearly hubris 
carried to the point of insanity. It is damn hard to convince people 
you're killing them for their own good.''

I hope that an overwhelming vote in favor of this resolution will 
compel the President to rethink his Iraq policy. But, if not, this body 
will have no choice but to take further steps. Ultimately we must do 
more than send a message. We must send a convoy of military planes to 
bring our troops home.

Together with my colleagues, Congresswomen Lee and Waters, I have 
offered a plan to end the war once and for all. Our bill is H.R. 508, 
the Bring Our Troops Home and Iraq Sovereignty Restoration Act. H.R. 
508 would complete a fully funded military withdrawal from Iraq within 
6 months of enactment, because our military and their families have 
given enough for this policy that is only increasing the terrorist 
threat and doing damage to our national security. The bill would 
accelerate the training of Iraqi Security Forces during that 6-month 
period. And because Iraq is not yet ready to defend its people against 
thugs, insurgents and militias, our bill calls for an international 
stabilization force to help keep the peace in Iraq. But it would stay 
only for 2 more years and would deploy only at the request of the Iraqi 
Government.

Because we have already poured enough of the people's money down this 
sinkhole, H.R. 508 would prohibit any further funding to deploy U.S. 
troops, but would provide the resources for a safe withdrawal of all of 
our U.S. military personnel and contractors.

The proposal would also provide for humanitarian aid and major 
investments to rebuild Iraq's physical and economic infrastructure, 
because taking our troops out of Iraq doesn't mean abandoning Iraq.



We can and we must go from military occupier to reconstruction 
partner.

Our proposal expressly prohibits the construction of U.S. military 
bases in Iraq because it is that kind of permanent occupation that 
fuels the rage and anti-American jihadists in the Middle East.

Iraq should belong to the Iraqis, and that includes Iraq's resources. 
So under the terms of our bill, the United States would forfeit any 
proprietary claim to Iraqi oil.

Finally, H.R. 508 guarantees full health care funding, including 
mental health benefits, for U.S. veterans in military operations in 
Iraq and other conflicts. It is the least, the very least, we can do to 
express our gratitude and repay their sacrifices.

Mr. Speaker, we must never, ever forget what war does to bodies, to 
minds, to families, to communities and to the human soul. The victims 
of war are not pieces to be moved around on a chess board. They are our 
fellow citizens in a global village that gets smaller every day. They 
are our brothers. They are our sisters. They are God's children and 
have as much right to human dignity as you or I.

The one thing I desperately hope we have learned from the Iraq 
nightmare is that we must find more sensible, humane ways to keep 
America safe and resolve global conflict because, if we do not, given 
the kinds of weapons that are available today, I fear that we are 
putting the entire planet on a path toward destruction.

I fear most of all for our children. ''War,'' said Martin Luther 
King, Jr., ''is a poor chisel to carve out tomorrow.'' Mr. Speaker, 
tomorrow belongs to our children. So, for their sake, we must find 
alternatives to war. We must protect America by relying not on our 
basest impulses, but on the most honorable and humane of American 
values, our love of freedom, our desire for peace, our capacity for 
global leadership, and our compassion for the people of the world.