# COURT SECURITY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `55e6d158a3bc9138c6942ca9e9dab332`
`Mr. SANDERS â€” 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. When the American people were asked by CBS News the 
question, ''Do you think the economy is getting better, getting worse 
or staying about the same?'' 11 percent of the American people said the 
economy is getting better, 44 percent thought it was getting worse, and 
44 percent thought it was about the same.

Then, interestingly, in that same poll, when the American people were 
asked by CBS the question, ''Over the past 10 years, do you think life 
for middle class Americans has gotten better or worse?'' 30 percent 
said life has gotten better, 59 percent, almost a 2-to-1 margin, said 
life is getting worse, and 7 percent said the same.

Technology has exploded in recent years. Our workers are far more 
productive than used to be the case. Yet by a 2-to-1 margin the 
American people have said that life for the middle class is getting 
worse, not better.

In terms of the Gallup Poll, the Gallup people, from April 2 to April 
5, asked some very interesting questions that we very often do not 
speak about here on the floor of the Senate. In my view, what we have 
seen since President Bush has been in office, in a general sense, is 
the shrinking of the middle class, an increase in poverty, and a 
growing gap between the rich and the poor--not something we talk about 
terribly often on the floor of the Senate, not something that is talked 
about terribly often in the corporate media. But here is the question, 
very interestingly, that Gallup asked the American people, between 
April 2 and April 5: ''Do you feel that the distribution of money and 
wealth in this country today is fair, or do you feel that the money and 
wealth in this country should be more evenly distributed among a larger 
percentage of the people?'' Answer: Distribution is fair, 29 percent; 
should be more evenly distributed, 66 percent.

Then the next question they asked, which was rather a clumsy 
question, I thought, and I was surprised by the answer, but this was 
the question. Question: ''People feel differently about how far a 
government should go. Here is a phrase which some people believe in and 
some don't. Do you think our Government should or should not 
redistribute wealth by heavy taxes on the rich?''

That is a pretty clumsy question. Do you know what the answer was to 
that rather clumsy question? Yes, should redistribute wealth, 49 
percent; no, should not, 47 percent.

I mention this poll because it is important to understand that 
despite a lot of the rhetoric we hear from the White House and on the 
floor of the Senate, the American people understand that in terms of 
our economy, something is fundamentally wrong. They understand it 
because they are living the experience of working longer hours for 
lower wages; of working day after day, trying to pay the bills for 
their family, trying to send their kids to college, trying to take care 
of health care, trying to provide childcare for their kids. They know 
the reality of the economy because they are the economy.

Every single day the people of our country are seeing an economy 
which is forcing them in many instances to work longer hours for lower 
wages, an economy in which they wonder how their kids are going to be 
able to go to college, able to afford college; an economy in which they 
worry that for the first time in the modern history of our country, 
their children will see a lower standard of living than they do. That 
is the reality of the economy, in the eyes, I believe, of millions of 
American workers.

That perception that the American worker has of the economy is, in my 
view, the correct perception of what is going on. Since George W. Bush 
has been President, more than 5 million Americans have slipped into 
poverty, including 1 million children. This country now has the very 
dubious distinction of having by far the highest rate of childhood 
poverty of any major industrialized country on Earth. How do you have a 
great economy, a booming economy, when 5 million more Americans have 
slipped into poverty? Median income has declined in our country for 5 
years in a row. Americans understand that the economy is not doing well 
when the personal savings rate is below zero, which has not happened 
since the Great Depression. How do we talk about a strong economy when 
7 million Americans have lost their health insurance since President 
Bush has been in office, and when we now have, unbelievably, 47 million 
Americans who have no health insurance at all?

How can anybody come to the floor of the Senate, or anybody in the 
Bush administration talk about a strong economy, when we have 47 
million Americans who have no health insurance at all; when 35 million 
Americans in our country, the richest country in the history of the 
world, struggled to put food on the table last year; and the number of 
the poorest, most hungry Americans keeps getting larger? The American 
people understand this is not an economy that is working for ordinary 
people. In this economy today, more and more of our brothers and 
sisters, our fellow Americans, are going hungry. Let's not talk about a 
booming economy when we have children in America who are hungry.

Mr. President, you and I have heard, over and over again, people 
talking about the importance of education for this country. Yet 
millions of working families do not know how they are going to be able 
to send their kids to college when the cost of college education is 
soaring, when the average person graduating a 4-year college leaves 
that school $20,000 in debt, when hundreds of thousands of young people 
are now giving up the dream of going to college because they don't want 
to come out deeply in debt? How do we talk about a booming economy when 
so many of our young people, some of the brightest, most able of our 
young people, are giving up the dream of going to college? How do you 
compete on the international and global economy if so many of our young 
people are not able to get the kind of education they need?

When we talk about a booming economy, how does that correlate with 
the fact that our manufacturing infrastructure is falling apart, that 
since President Bush has been in office we have lost over 3 million 
good manufacturing jobs, and when people go out to the store to shop, 
when they look at the product, they know where that product is 
manufactured today? It is not manufactured in the United States. Over 
and over again they see it is manufactured in China.



We have a trade deficit now of over $700 billion. In my small State 
of Vermont, not a manufacturing center, we lost 20 percent of our 
manufacturing jobs in the last 5 years and that phenomenon is going on 
all over this country. How do you have a booming economy when we are 
losing huge numbers of good-paying manufacturing jobs and we are on the 
cusp of losing millions of good-paying, white-collar information 
technology jobs?

Three million fewer American workers today have pension coverage than 
when President Bush took office. Half of private sector American 
workers have no pension coverage whatsoever. How does that speak to a 
strong economy? It was not so many years ago that workers understood 
that when they left their job, there would be a defined pension 
available to them. They knew what they were getting. Today, those days 
seem like ancient history. Fewer and fewer workers have solid pensions 
on which to depend.

What is important to understand is, while poverty is increasing, 
while the middle class is shrinking, while more and more people are 
losing their health insurance, while hunger is growing in America, 
while good-paying jobs are going to China, the truth is not all is bad 
in the American economy. We have to acknowledge that. Are there some 
people who in fact are doing well? The answer is yes. Today, the simple 
truth is the top 1 percent of the families in our country have not had 
it so good since the 1920s. When that poll I mentioned from Gallup 
talks about the American people wanting to seek an understanding of the 
unfair distribution of wealth, this is precisely what they are 
referring to.

Today in the United States we have by far the most unequal 
distribution of income and wealth of any major country on Earth. Let me 
highlight very briefly a recent study done by Professor Emmanuel Saez 
from the University of California-Berkeley and Professor Thomas Piketty 
from the Paris School of Economics. This is what they found. In 2005, 
while average incomes for the bottom 90 percent of Americans declined 
by $172, the wealthiest one one-hundredth of 1 percent reported an 
average income of $25.7 million, a 1-year increase of $4.4 million.

In other words, for the people at the very top, a huge increase in 
their income, while 90 percent of the American people saw a decline. 
The gap between the rich and the poor, the rich and the middle class, 
continues to grow wider.

The top 1 percent of Americans received, in 2005, the largest share 
of national income since 1928. And some people may remember what 
happened in 1929. The top 300,000 Americans now earn nearly as much 
income as the bottom 150 million Americans combined.

You and I have heard many of our friends here on the other side of 
the aisle talk about how much the wealthy are paying in taxes. My, my, 
my. Yet the reason for that is what we are seeing is, with the decline 
of the middle class, a huge increase in the percentage of the income 
being made by the people on top. Let me repeat it. The top 300,000 
Americans now earn nearly as much income as the bottom 150 million 
Americans. Is that the kind of country we really want to become, with 
so few having so much and so many having so little? I do not think that 
is the America most people want to see us evolve into, an oligarchic 
form of society. That is wrong.

According to Forbes magazine, the collective net worth of the 
wealthiest 400 Americans increased by $120 billion last year to $1.25 
trillion--$1.25 trillion for the wealthiest 400 Americans. That is an 
astounding number. The reality is that in America today, we have the 
people on the top who have more income, in some cases, than they are 
going to be able to spend in a thousand lifetimes, while people in 
Vermont, people in Ohio, people in Minnesota, people all over our 
country are struggling so hard to provide basic needs for their 
families.

One of the reasons the gap between the rich and the poor is growing 
wider and why we now have by far the most unequal distribution of 
income and wealth of any major country is due to the passage of massive 
tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires since President Bush has 
been in office.

Now, you stop and you take a look at the needs of the people of our 
country in the most basic sense.

Hunger is increasing. Well, what do we think? Should we eliminate 
hunger in America or do you give tax breaks to billionaires? I don't 
think too many people would disagree with what we should be doing.

We have a crisis in affordable childcare in America. We have single 
moms, working families, both parents going to work, trying to provide 
well for their 2-year-old, 3-year-old. They cannot provide affordable 
childcare. The Federal Government provides totally inadequate 
childcare. Do we increase funding for childcare or do we give tax 
breaks to millionaires?

We are all aware of the scandal at Walter Reed Hospital. We are all 
aware of the outrageously inadequate way we treat our veterans, men and 
women who put their lives on the line defending this country. Yet when 
they come home from Iraq, there is inadequate care at the hospital at 
Walter Reed and inadequate care and waiting lines at VA hospitals all 
over America. What is our priority? Do we take care of our veterans or 
do we give tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires?

In America, millions of children do not have any health insurance. 
What are our priorities?

People are paying 50 percent of their limited income for housing 
because we are not building affordable housing. What are our 
priorities?

We have a major crisis in global warming. We should be investing in 
sustainable energy, energy efficiency, not giving tax breaks to 
billionaires. What are our priorities?

Let me conclude by saying that I think the American people, on issue 
after issue, are far ahead of where we are in Congress. So we are going 
to have to work very hard to catch up to where the American people are. 
I think we should begin the process of doing that.

We need to fundamentally change our national priorities. We have to 
have the courage now to stand up to the wealthiest people and the 
largest corporations and say to those people: The free ride is over.

Our job is to represent the middle class, working families, the lower 
income people who are not getting justice from the Congress. When we 
stand and do the right thing for the middle class and working families 
of this country, I believe we are going to see a significant increase 
in the respect this body receives.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.