# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `564616b832a3b8e7b31d95ff6ff57d4d`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia â€” 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. I thank the very distinguished chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee and the very distinguished chairman of the 
Defense appropriations subcommittee. Because, over the last 2 years, 
six times this body has passed responsible limits on the conduct of 
this war. Six times we have tried to make sense and pass legislation.

What we are about to do now is to give the President a blank check to 
continue this war until the end of his term, to continue what has gone 
down in history as the worst foreign policy fiasco in American history. 
Nobody in their right mind can argue that this war was thoughtfully 
planned or responsibly executed, and yet we are going to give him a 
blank check. We will look back on this day and people will ask, why?

Well, I want to thank Mr. Obey, I want to thank Mr. Murtha, the Out 
of Iraq Caucus, and the majority of my colleagues. We did the right 
thing. History will record that. But this is a very sad day for us. 
When you think that 4,000 young men and women have given up their 
lives, tens of thousands seriously wounded. For what? For a nation that 
will wind up far more loyal to Iran than it will be to the United 
States, to a nation that in fact is allowing young people to roam the 
streets with guns and forcing school girls going to school having to 
wear their veils. A repressive society, what will become a Shiite 
theocracy.

Sure, there is less violence. But that is because we have ethically 
cleansed most of Baghdad. There is less violence because the Sunni 
warlords have taken time off from shooting American soldiers to ridding 
themselves of al Qaeda in Iraq because Muqtada al-Sadr has decided to 
take a 6-month hiatus from shooting us. But all of this is going to 
come back. We see no end in sight. This is a very bad day, and we ought 
to vote ''no.'' It is the responsible thing to do.