# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `5652a19145830eac3dc38d989c6c1b84`
`Mr. LANGEVIN â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1591, 
legislation that would chart a new course for the United States in 
Iraq. I commend the gentleman from Wisconsin, Mr. Obey, and the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania, Mr. Murtha, for their leadership and for 
drafting a measure that answers Americans' calls for real change.

Four years after our nation initiated military operations in Iraq, 
America demands a new approach to this open-ended conflict that has 
resulted in the deaths of more than 3,200 service members, including at 
least 25 with strong ties to Rhode Island. Our operations in Iraq have 
endangered the ability of our armed forces to respond to other crises, 
distracted from efforts to fight al Qaeda and the Taliban, and damaged 
our international reputation. Our military now finds itself in the 
middle of a civil war, and it is time to bring our troops home.

Despite calls by the Iraq Study Group for a new approach to the 
''grave and deteriorating'' situation in Iraq, President Bush has 
proposed escalating military operations, sending more troops to 
prosecute a war mismanaged from the start by the civilian leadership. 
Fortunately, we have another choice. The House of Representatives will 
vote today on an emergency spending bill that would, for the first 
time, set a clear deadline to end U.S. combat operations in Iraq. As 
one who originally voted against giving the President authority to 
invade Iraq, I will proudly support this Democratic measure as the 
first real step to end the war.

Last November, an American public dissatisfied with President Bush's 
Iraq policy elected a Democratic Congress that promised a new 
direction. Having heard frustration from so many Rhode Islanders, I 
have worked with the Democratic leadership to develop a better 
strategy. I spoke of my conversations with military families and 
advocacy groups to underscore the sincerity and passion of Rhode 
Islanders' call for change. Meanwhile, Democratic leaders consulted 
with an array of current and former military commanders, foreign policy 
experts and advocates, with committees holding more than 100 hearings 
on operations in Iraq.

The bill before us is the direct result of those efforts and reflects 
the will of the American people. Not only does it demand accountability 
by establishing clear benchmarks for Iraqis to take control of their 
own security, but it also sets a deadline to bring our troops home--no 
later than August 2008. This measure sends a clear signal to the 
President and the world that we do not intend to remain an occupying 
force in Iraq.

The bill also addresses other serious problems facing our military 
andf their families. President Bush has recommended sending more troops 
into harm's way, but has not provided the resources they need upon 
their return home, as demonstrated by reports of substandard care at 
facilities such as Walter Reed Medical Center. With nearly 25,000 
American troops--among them 93 Rhode Islanders--injured in Iraq thus 
far, the House spending bill provides an additional $2.8 billion for 
military health care and $1.7 billion for veterans' health care to 
ensure that those who have sacrificed for our nation get the support 
and treatment they deserve.

Furthermore, the bill adds critical funds to restore our military 
readiness and re-equip National Guard and Reserve forces, which face 
major shortages as a result of operations in Iraq. Lt. General H. 
Steven Blum, Chief of the National Guard Bureau, has stated that 88 
percent of Army Guard units and 45 percent of Air Guard units are 
unprepared for deployment as a result of equipment shortages. We depend 
on our National Guard to protect us in the event of catastrophes or 
natural disasters, and we must ensure they are fully prepared to defend 
the Nation they serve.

In Congress, I have constantly strived to protect our national 
security and to support our military, which has served valiantly in 
some incredibly challenging missions. At this point, though, the 
Iraqis' problems no longer require a U.S. military solution. The 
underlying causes of violence are primarily political and must be 
addressed as such. Unlike the President's plan, which promises more of 
the same failed policy, the Democratic approach will support the 
political process to end sectarian divisions in Iraq, help rebuild the 
economy and infrastructure, and promote maximum diplomatic efforts to 
bring an end to the violence.

Some have argued that the bill does not go far enough. Like them, I 
support an even earlier exit for our troops and have co-sponsored 
legislation to redeploy them out of Iraq by December 31, 2007. However, 
there is no question that the Democratic measure being offered marks a 
major turning point and answers Rhode Islanders' pleas by setting a 
firm deadline for withdrawal. This is a tremendous step--one which 
serves our troops, our constituents, and our conscience--and I will 
wholeheartedly support it.