# MOTION TO GO TO CONFERENCE ON H.R. 3043, DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH  AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `56c4c2f011bd89ba9c9854df87161afc`
`Mr. ISRAEL â€” 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. I thank the distinguished chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee.

Madam Speaker, this bill does, in fact, combine various other 
appropriations measures. But those measures in their totality clearly 
reflect the top priorities of the American people. In fact, every one 
of those bills separately passed with significant Republican support by 
significant bipartisan majorities in this House.

The reason that this bill in its totality makes sense and should, 
with all due respect, attract the support of my friends from the other 
side of the aisle is because it does, in fact, fund the global war on 
terror. It funds our defense. It funds military construction. But it 
also funds America's other priorities. It funds our troops but it also 
takes care of our veterans, the largest increase in veterans health 
care in the 77-year history of the VA. It funds our defense with a 
robust military. But it also funds the war on cancer with increased 
investments in the NCI and the NIH.



It funds our military so that we can achieve global stability, but it 
also gives working families and middle-class taxpayers a little bit of 
a break, actually, more than a little bit of a break, a significant 
break on their college expenses so that our kids can compete in a 
globally competitive environment.

I would conclude, Madam Speaker, by suggesting that the differences 
between where the administration is and where we are should not be 
minimized. They are significant. As the chairman said, this 
administration is arguing over a $22 billion increased investment with 
one hand, and, on the other hand, telling the American people they have 
to come up with another $200 billion for Iraq. We are spending $12 
billion a month in Iraq. The difference between where the 
administration is and where we are on these other priorities is 2 
months in Iraq.

We want $880 million in increased investment for LIHEAP so that 
senior citizens don't have to shiver in the cold because their heating 
costs are too high. That is 2/1/2/ days in Iraq, that $880 million. If 
we want to invest $1 billion in medical research for people with


cancer, with Alzheimer's, with Parkinson's, that's 3 days in Iraq.

Our $1 billion investment covers an entire year. The administration's 
strategy covers 3 days in Iraq. We want $1.4 billion for the entire 
year for improved health care access. With this administration, the 
equivalent cost is 4 days in Iraq. We want $1.8 billion in increased 
investments to keep American streets safe with additional law 
enforcement and additional police. The administration says we can't 
afford to keep America's streets safe but is willing to spend an 
equivalent amount over 5 days in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, this bill reflects the priorities of the American 
people. Separately, the components passed with overwhelming Republican 
support. This should be a bipartisan effort. It should be a bipartisan 
effort because, number one, it supports our troops, provides for robust 
defense, and takes care of our priorities here at home as well.