# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST
## `56c9dabe65f459fe1ab75798de77823b`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I was, unfortunately, engaged in a 
briefing in S. 407 on the most recent NIE, and I have just come down to 
join my colleagues on the Senate floor and I caught some portions of 
the debate. But I would like to say to my colleagues that the Senator 
from Virginia, together with probably six or eight other Republicans, 
has been discussing this issue very carefully and thoughtfully and 
respectfully.

Frankly, we have taken to heart what the President said when he 
addressed the Nation on January 10. His very words were: ''If there are 
those with ideas, we will consider them.'' We accept that invitation by 
our President and have tried in a very respectful way to simply state 
that we have some serious concern with the level of 21,500 additional 
troops. Now we learn it could even be larger than that, in testimony, 
open testimony this morning with the Secretary of Defense and the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. It could be 3,000 or 4,000 more. We tried 
in a very respectful way simply to express our concerns about an 
increase of that level at a time when polls show most of the Iraqi 
people don't want us there, much less increase the force. Now, I am not 
following the polls, but we are asking our troops to go into a very 
heated, emotional situation in that country. We simply said to the 
President: Shouldn't we put more emphasis on the utilization of the 
Iraqi forces? Shouldn't we let them bear the brunt of such additional 
security as must go into Baghdad?

We learned this morning that the efforts to build up the forces have 
fallen short. I am not going to pronounce judgment on what happened on 
just 2 or 3 days' reporting, but clearly the number of Iraqis showing 
up is far below the estimates or significantly below the estimates we 
anticipated their participation would be in this operation which, in 
many respects, is to


be joint. We talked with General Pace this morning about my concern of 
this concept of joint command and control. He assured us the American 
forces would have a linear straight line from an American senior 
officer right down to the sergeants operating the platoons on the front 
lines. But nevertheless the Iraqis are going to have their chain of 
command, and I think that puts a challenge to us.


But I don't want to digress from my main point. Our group, in a 
conscientious and a respectful way, even wrote into the resolution that 
we in no way contest the right of the President of the United States 
under the Constitution to take the actions he has taken thus far and 
will take. But as long as I have been in this Chamber--now in my 29th 
year--I have always tried to respect another Senator's way of thinking. 
I don't question his integrity or her integrity or their patriotism or 
anything else. I do not do that now. I wish to make my points based on 
what I have put forth in this resolution with about six other 
Republican colleagues and a number of Democrats.

We simply want to suggest--and we use the word ''urge''--we urge you, 
Mr. President, not ''direct you'' or ''you shall do this,'' we simply 
urge that you take into consideration all the options by which you can 
bring down this level and consider greater utilization of the Iraqi 
forces.

Then we have the subsidiary question that this program is in three 
parts--one part military. So much of our focus has been on that. There 
is a diplomatic part. There is an economic part. In our testimony today 
with the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman, we stressed the need 
for all three of those parts to come together at one time to have the 
effect that the President desires with his new plan. Somehow, we gained 
the impression today that maybe the political part and perhaps the 
economic part are not quite as far along as some of the military 
thinking and planning. Actually, the troops are moving in as we debate 
this on the Senate floor.

So there were several questions we respectfully raised with the 
President, urging him to take a look at this, by means of which to 
lessen--lessen the total number of 21,500 and, indeed, more now--
troops.

We also point out the importance of the benchmarks. That is all in 
there. We carefully lay out that the benchmarks should be clearly and 
fully understood by both sides and a method put in place by which we 
can assess the compliance or noncompliance for those benchmarks. The 
Secretary of Defense today, in his testimony to us, in response to 
questions from this Senator and others, said: Yes, we will put in a 
mechanism by which to evaluate the degree to which the Iraqi compliance 
is taken with respect to benchmarks, the benchmarks that basically have 
to support the President's plan. In addition, we put in the resolution 
of the Senator from New Hampshire. I think it is important that we have 
an expression in here about the non-cutoff of funds.

So our resolution has been presented to try as best we can to put 
together right here on the floor of the Senate a bipartisan consensus. 
I think the American public is entitled to see whether the Senate, an 
institution that is followed throughout the world, can come together 
and express in a single document--accompanied by lots of debate but in 
a single document--a joinder of a number of Republicans and a number of 
Democrats, so it is truly bipartisan, and therefore the American public 
will get, I think, the sense of confidence that this body is carrying 
out its responsibility under the Constitution to speak to this issue 
and to put onto a piece of paper what we think is the nearest a group 
of us can gather and express ourselves. And that includes a vote.

I am not going to enter into further debate with the two leaders. I 
think they are trying to work out and resolve this problem. I support 
my leader with respect to the cloture, and that raises a question: How 
can I advocate that I strongly adhere to my resolution and at the same 
time support my leader? Well, when I first came to this Chamber many 
years ago, the old-time Senators who taught me so many lessons said: 
This is what separates the Senate from the House--the ability to have 
this almost unlimited debate by a single Senator. And it is, throughout 
the history of this institution, one of its revered tenets and its 
rules. To take that and deny it, deny Senators the ability to bring up 
their own resolutions to express their own views, is a curtailment that 
I believe we should consider long and hard. That is why I cast that 
vote yesterday.

So I leave it to the two leaders, but I come back again to the need 
for this great institution to express itself through the votes of 
hopefully a significant number of Senators, that this is what we 
believe is the best course of action for our Nation to take as we 
revise our strategy in Iraq, as we move ahead. And in our resolution, 
we put in there ever so expressly that we agree with the President; it 
would be disastrous were we to allow this Government to collapse not 
knowing what government might or might not take their place, and to 
allow the Iraqi people to lose the ground they gained through 
courageous votes several times to put this Government together. It 
would be bad for Iraq, it would be bad for the region, and it could 
have ramifications on world peace and our efforts to stem this terrible 
growth of terrorism worldwide.

I yield the floor.