# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `56d41d279ba035fd14b37d9d67a44a6d`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 24 July 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, the two legislators who bring this bill 
to the floor of the Senate are serious and thoughtful legislators. 
Senator Byrd and Senator Cochran have been around this place for some 
while. They have been on the Appropriations Committee. Both have 
chaired that committee. I am pleased to be here to support their work. 
I think this is a very important subcommittee and one that funds 
critically important programs for this country. But I want to say that 
unlike other subcommittees on Appropriations--one of which I chair and 
will hopefully bring that bill to the floor of the Senate--this 
subcommittee's actions and this subcommittee's product represent an 
urgency for this country. We probably don't say that about every 
subcommittee because we need to fund the things we need to do, but this 
is urgent. I want to describe why it is urgent.

I come from a small town of 300 people in the southwestern corner of 
my State. I was thinking as I was sitting here waiting to speak, this 
is called homeland security. If, in fact, this were a decision and 
deliberation by my hometown and the subject was hometown security and 
we knew what the most serious threat to our town was, we would go find 
that threat and try to eliminate it.

I want to tell you why I believe it is an urgent circumstance to pass 
this legislation. My colleague from Washington described the National 
Intelligence Estimate of last week. I am going to talk about that just 
a bit before I talk about the funding of the accounts in this 
legislation that is so important to fighting terrorism--that is 
providing security for our ports and security in aviation, law 
enforcement, border protection, and so on.

Last week the National Intelligence Estimate was provided to us, both 
in a classified and an unclassified version. Here is what it said, in 
part:




 Al-Qaida is and will remain the most serious terrorist 


 threat to the homeland . . . we assess the group has 


 protected or regenerated key elements of its homeland attack 


 capability, including: A safe haven in the Pakistan federally 


 administered tribal areas, operational lieutenants, and its 


 top leadership.


Let me say that again. The National Intelligence Estimate says to us 
the greatest threat, the most serious terrorist threat to the 
homeland--that means the most serious threat to the United States of 
America and to our homeland--is an organization called al-Qaida. They 
have protected or regenerated key elements of their homeland attack 
capability, including a safe haven in the Pakistan federally 
administered tribal areas.

That is a different subject on which I spoke about recently. There 
ought not be 1 square inch of ground on this planet that would be safe 
for Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida. Six years after 9/11, there ought not 
be 1 square inch on this entire planet Earth that is a safe haven or 
protected secure hideaway for the greatest or most serious threat to 
our country.

This should not be a surprise to us, the National Intelligence 
Estimate. We have been reading the accounts. This is from June 26, 
Jonathan Landay from the McClatchy Bureau:




 While the U.S. presses its war against insurgents linked to 


 al-Qaida in Iraq, Osama bin Laden's group is recruiting, 


 regrouping and rebuilding in a new sanctuary along the border 


 between Afghanistan and Pakistan, senior U.S. military and 


 intelligence and law enforcement officials said. The threat 


 from the radical Islamic enclave in Waziristan is more 


 dangerous than that from Iraq, which President Bush and his 


 aides call the central front in the war on terrorism, said 


 some current and former U.S. officials and experts.


A month or two prior to that, senior leaders of al-Qaida operating 
from Pakistan over the past year have set up a band of training camps 
in tribal regions near the Afghan border, according to American 
intelligence and counterterrorism officials. American officials said 
there was mounting evidence


that Osama bin Laden and his deputy al Zawahiri had been steadily 
building an operations hub in the mountainous Pakistani tribal area of 
north Waziristan.