# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `5795664e7155d0d61931dad964ed2ac2`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I rise to discuss the budget resolution 
that is currently before the Senate today. This is my third year in the 
Senate, and this is the third budget resolution I have had the 
opportunity to consider. But this is the first time I can say I am 
proud of the resolution before us. It is long overdue. We have not had 
a budget for 2 years, and we are still operating under the budget 
resolution passed in 2005.

The circumstances surrounding the budget are not ideal. Our fiscal 
situation in this country has deteriorated significantly year after 
year over the past 6 years. We know we cannot fully fund every good 
program, and we are still facing deficits even as we move closer and 
closer to the demographic tidal wave that will soon overtake the Social 
Security and Medicare Programs. But, to their immense credit--to the 
immense credit of the chairman of the Budget Committee, Senator 
Conrad--they have crafted a very good, strong budget resolution. The 
budget resolution before us provides a blueprint that will enable us to 
fund our most important Federal programs, provide new tax relief and 
extend expiring tax provisions, and bring the budget into balance 
within 5 years. It will do all that without raising taxes.

Still, one of the most important parts of this budget is not a 
program or a tax cut; it is a simple principle: If you want to take 
money out of the budget, either by increasing funding for Federal 
programs or by cutting taxes, you have to pay for it. You have to pay 
for it--it is a simple principle but a very important principle that 
will assure we restore fiscal discipline to the Congress. This pay-go 
provision is one I have long supported and one I am very proud to 
support with Senator Conrad and other Members of this body.

The budget resolution would create a 60-vote point of order against 
any new spending for tax cuts that are not fully paid for--that are not 
fully paid for. The simple rule is essential if we are to exercise the 
fiscal restraint that will be necessary to restore sanity to the 
budgetary process and to set our Nation's fiscal circumstances back on 
the right path.

I believe this budget strikes the right balance for America--between 
the fiscal restraint that is embodied in pay-go and the need to fund 
our Government and between the need to keep taxes on middle-class 
families low and the importance of facing up to our looming budgetary 
challenges from a position of fiscal strength. This budget accomplishes 
those important goals.

On the spending side, I am particularly pleased the budget resolution 
provides adequate funding for a wide range of programs that are 
important to the people of America and to the people of Colorado. Some 
of those priorities include children's health, education, veterans 
health, and law enforcement.


These issues have never been more important to America than they are 
today.

On children's health, an estimated 9 million children in America do 
not have health insurance today. This is a staggering statistic: 9 
million children in America are without health insurance. They do not 
have health insurance; therefore, they do not have access to 
quality health care. These children will be denied the opportunities of 
learning, to grow up in stable family environments, and to become 
productive members of our communities.


On education, America is quickly losing ground to other nations in 
this global economy. The Federal Government must help local schools 
provide students with the skills they need to compete on a national and 
international basis.

On veterans health, we are all familiar with the consequences of the 
failure to provide our veterans with the quality care the Nation owes 
them. We currently have over 630,000 veterans of both Iraq and 
Afghanistan. We owe it to them as a nation to ensure they receive the 
best care our Government can provide because that is what we promised 
to each and every one of them and their families.

On law enforcement, we all know how important it is for our citizens 
to feel safe and to be secure in the fact their Government is doing 
everything it can to protect them in their homes and in their 
communities. That means more effective Federal homeland security 
programs, and it means more police officers in our neighborhoods.

The budget resolution before us gives these and a range of other 
critical national priorities the full support they deserve.

For example, this budget provides $552 million for the COPS Program. 
The COPS Program itself has helped put 1,300 police officers on the 
streets in communities of my State of Colorado.

This budget provides $43.1 billion for veterans programs, including 
veterans health--with a $3.5 billion increase over the President's 
budget request.

This budget provides $9.2 billion in discretionary education spending 
above the President's budget request.

This budget provides $50 billion for the State Children's Health 
Insurance Program, SCHIP. That is 10 times what the President has 
proposed, and it starts us effectively down the road of making sure all 
the children of America, in fact, have health insurance.

This budget protects our communities and our cities and our counties 
by making sure the community development block grants, which are so 
important, are provided $3.8 billion. This represents a very 
significant increase over the President's budget request, which slashed 
the community development block grants.

This budget provides $1.6 billion for the Department of Energy 
account that, among other things, will fund the National Renewable 
Energy Lab at a level $385 million above what the President requested.

The budget also provides a $15 billion increase for agricultural 
funding between 2008 and 2012 to give our farmers and our ranchers in 
the forgotten part of America--our rural communities--the assistance 
they need to remain vibrant.

The budget also rejects the President's proposed cuts to the Payment 
In Lieu of Taxes Program, the PILT Program, restoring PILT funding to 
fiscal year 2006 levels.

On the revenue side, this budget sets the stage for meaningful 
middle-class tax relief and for aggressive action to close the tax gap. 
As a new member of the Senate Finance Committee, I will do my part to 
help make the chairman's goals a reality. For example, I strongly 
support the chairman's decision to include 2 years of AMT relief for 
middle-class households. That is 1 more year than was set forth in the 
President's budget request. This will ensure that 20 million--20 
million--middle-class taxpayers are not unfairly subjected to the AMT 
for the next 2 years. I am also especially encouraged that Chairman 
Conrad has made a point to emphasize the need to go after corporate tax 
shelters and offshore tax havens as a way of reducing the tax gap. It 
is simply not fair to ask hard-working, middle-class Americans to pay 
their fair share in taxes while we allow large corporations to 
consistently abuse the Tax Code for their own profit. I commend 
Chairman Conrad and the members of the Budget Committee for their 
vigilance in this arena.

Finally, I believe the budget's deficit-neutral reserve fund for tax 
relief provides an excellent mechanism for extending several critical 
tax credits and deductions that will expire in coming years in a 
fiscally responsible way. The renewable energy production tax credits 
are an example of that in an amendment we just successfully adopted.

At the end of the day, in 2012, this budget will be balanced. A 
dramatic reversal of our fiscal fortunes will occur because of the 
resolution that is before us today. We need a responsible budget 
blueprint for Congress, and we need it now. This resolution provides 
that blueprint, and I am proud to stand behind it. I will vote for it. 
I urge my colleagues to also support it.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.