# CREDIT CARDHOLDERS' BILL OF RIGHTS ACT OF 2009
## `58690c5535eb83cf58750212acc5d592`
`Mr. THUNE â€” 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I have sought recognition to make a few 
observations on President Obama's request in the emergency war 
supplemental for $80 million in funding to close the detention facility 
at Guantanamo Bay. Shortly after taking office in January, President 
Obama announced, with much fanfare, the closure of the Guantanamo Bay 
detention facility. At the same time, he also said he would work with 
Congress on any legislation that might be appropriate.

But instead of consulting Congress, President Obama is asking for $80 
million to close Guantanamo, with no justification or indication of a 
plan. The House Appropriations Committee has already refused to provide 
the funding because, in the words of the chairman of the committee, the 
President has no plan in place on what to do about the detainees housed 
there. We are now hearing reports that the Senate Appropriations 
Committee will be providing funding for Guantanamo and its version in 
the emergency war supplemental, but that it will be ''fenced off'' 
until the President provides a plan on disposition of the detainees 
held at Guantanamo Bay. I believe any plan to close Guantanamo that 
includes bringing these terrorists into the United States is a mistake. 
We don't want the killers who are held there to be brought into this 
country.

The administration is actively seeking to circumvent a Senate 
resolution which passed by a vote of 94 to 3 in July of 2007. That 
resolution stated the detainees housed at Guantanamo Bay should not be 
released into American society and not transferred stateside into 
facilities in American communities and neighborhoods.

In fact, not only does the Obama administration wish to hold open the 
possibility that some of these detainees may be transferred to 
facilities in American communities, it is even considering freeing some 
of them into American society. These are the 17 Chinese Uighurs whose 
combat status review tribunal records were deemed insufficient to 
support the conclusion that they are enemy combatants but cannot be 
returned to China because of fear that the Chinese Government will 
torture or kill them. At a press conference on March 26, ADM Dennis 
Blair, the Director of National Intelligence, went so far as to say:




 If we are to release them [the Uighurs] in the United 


 States, we need some sort of assistance for them to start a 


 new life.


However, the Uighur detainees are not simply unfortunate souls who 
happened to be scooped up on the battlefields of Afghanistan because 
they were in the wrong place at the wrong time. They took firearms 
training at camps run by the Eastern Turkistan Islamic Movement, which 
has been designated as a terrorist organization by the United States. 
They were at Tora Bora when we were heavily bombing that area and 
seeking to capture Osama bin Laden. The leader and chief instructor at 
these camps was Abdul Haq. In a Treasury Department advisory issued 
only a few weeks ago, the Obama administration labeled this man a 
''brutal terrorist'' with ties to al-Qaida.

It is hard to believe that this administration is seriously 
considering freeing these men inside the United States, and, most 
outrageous of all, paying them to live freely within American 
communities and neighborhoods. The American people don't want these men 
walking the streets of America's neighborhoods.

Aside from the issue of turning loose into the United States people 
who have trained in terrorist camps, the American people don't want the 
Guantanamo detainees to be transferred to the United States and held in 
their backyards, either, whether at a military base or in a Federal 
prison. That is easy to understand when one looks at the details of the 
killers who are held at Guantanamo.

Guantanamo is home to some of the world's most dangerous terrorists. 
There are 27 members of al-Qaida's leadership held there, along with 95 
lower level al-Qaida operatives, 9 members of the Taliban's leadership, 
92 foreign fighters, and 12 Taliban fighters. Americans don't want 
these killers brought into the United States, but President Obama's 
January 22 of 2009 Executive order reads, in relevant part, that a 
review of all Guantanamo detentions:




 Shall identify and consider legal, logistical, and security 


 issues relating to the potential transfer of individuals 


 currently detained at Guantanamo to facilities within the 


 United States.


In my view, President Obama is willfully ignoring the views of the 
Senate and its resolution passed, as I said earlier, by a bipartisan 
94-to-3 votes. The detainees housed at Guantanamo should not be 
released into American society, nor should they be transferred to 
facilities in American communities and neighborhoods.

Since President Obama seems set on a course to bring these terrorists 
into the United States, I have worked with my colleague in the Senate, 
Senator Inhofe from Oklahoma, to introduce a bill that would prevent 
any taxpayer dollars from being used to transfer detainees held at 
Guantanamo to any facility in the United States or construct, improve, 
modify, or otherwise enhance any facility in the United States for the 
purpose of housing any Guantanamo detainees.

Transferring these terrorists held at Guantanamo to facilities in or 
near American communities could make those communities terrorist 
targets. I had the opportunity to question ADM Dennis Blair, the 
Director of National Intelligence, on the potential security threat of 
relocating the Guantanamo detainees to facilities in the United States 
during an Armed Services Committee hearing on current and future 
worldwide threats to the national security of the United States. 
Admiral


Blair acknowledged that moving those detainees to the United States 
''does somewhat raise the threat level'' and ''does raise the concern 
somewhat.'' That does not give me comfort. If we must close Guantanamo 
Bay, it should not result in Americans being less safe.

Transferring these detainees would also stress the civilian 
governments in the communities where these detainees would be placed. 
These communities would be faced with overwhelming demand from 
roadblocks to identification checks, along with having increased 
security personnel necessary to deal with what is an obvious threat. 
The value of homes and businesses would decline. South Dakotans 
definitely don't want these detainees, and my support of the Guantanamo 
Detention Facility Safe Closure Act will help to ensure that these 
detainees will not be transferred to my home State of South Dakota or 
other States in the United States.

In conclusion, my view is that no Guantanamo detainee should be 
brought into the United States to be incarcerated, and certainly should 
not be brought into the United States and freed. Americans don't want 
these killers brought into their communities and neighborhoods, period. 
The Senate has clearly spoken on that front by a 94-to-3 vote on a 
resolution that we adopted in July of 2007 that detainees housed at 
Guantanamo Bay should not be released into American society and not 
transferred stateside to facilities in American communities and 
neighborhoods.

These detainees are hardened, trained terrorists who are very smart 
and extremely dangerous, who understand the strategic vulnerabilities 
of this country, and who are capable of exploiting any situation and 
any vulnerability to inflict death and destruction on the United 
States. These are not common criminals locked up in State or Federal 
prisons.

Guantanamo is secure. The facility is a $200 million, state-of-the-
art prison. No one has ever escaped, and its location makes it 
extremely difficult to attack. Best of all, it is located hundreds of 
miles away from American communities. If President Obama wishes to 
close Guantanamo, he must do so in a way that keeps America safe.

In my view, America will be less safe if the Guantanamo detainees are 
brought into the United States. I will do everything I can to make 
certain that does not happen.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.