# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `58e874743ec4a9c8465b92f05e2080af`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 9 July 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I would like to say what a pleasure it is 
to join my good friend from Nebraska, a member of the Armed Services 
Committee, on the floor on the occasion of the 29th authorization bill 
that I have been privileged to join with other colleagues on the floor 
submitting to the Senate. Earlier today, I had a lengthy meeting with 
Senator Levin, our distinguished chairman, and I have also had the 
benefit of a report from the distinguished ranking member, Senator 
McCain, who has returned from a trip to Iraq. So on behalf of our two 
principals, we are here today to initiate consideration of this all-
important bill at a very critical juncture in the history of our great 
Nation.

I am privileged to rise in support of this piece of legislation, Mr. 
President. The bill was voted out of our committee unanimously, and 
that has usually been the case. I say that with a sense of pride 
through the many years I have served on the committee, over half that 
time as either the chairman or the ranking member. Our committee is 
proud of the fact that members of the committee, as well as our 
respective professional staffs, work together to try to achieve the 
highest possible degree of bipartisanship, given that we are entrusted, 
under the Constitution, the Senate, and the Senate has entrusted our 
committee with bringing forth each year the recommendations on behalf 
of the men and women in the Armed Forces.

I commend our distinguished chairman, Mr. Levin, and Mr. McCain, the 
ranking member, for the markup session, which my colleague and I were 
in attendance I think throughout. It was done expeditiously, fairly, 
and openly, in terms of all Senators being given every possible option 
to present their views in preparing for the bill that is now on each 
Senator's desk. So again, I thank and join my colleague from Nebraska 
in thanking the chairman and ranking member and our staffs because I 
think we have achieved a truly bipartisan endeavor on behalf of the 
committee and forwarded to the Senate.

As the ranking member, Mr. McCain, and I worked with our 
subcommittees, and indeed Mr. Levin. I attended a number of 
subcommittee meetings. We were fortunate to have strong chairmen of the 
subcommittees and ranking members, as my colleague from Nebraska 
mentioned in his opening statement, together with a strong professional 
staff, and their reports, by and large, were incorporated in the bill. 
Therefore, the committee has met its responsibility and fully funded--I 
repeat, fully funded--the President's $648 billion budget request for 
national defense.

As Members of the Congress, funding our Nation's defense is a 
fundamental responsibility. We must ensure our military is prepared, 
well trained, and well equipped to defend us and our allies in today's 
very complex world of threats. We must provide the best resources with 
the best value for our Armed Forces. We owe that to our service men and 
women, to their families, and, indeed, to the taxpayers. I am proud to 
say that, in my judgment, this bill meets those criteria.

The bill approves $2.7 billion for items on the Army Chief of Staff's 
Unfunded Requirements List, including $775 million for reactive armor 
and other Stryker requirements, $207 million for aviation survivability 
equipment, $102 million for combat training centers, and funding 
explosive ordnance disposal equipment, night vision devices, and other 
weapons. These are critical items in our fight against al-Qaida, the 
Taliban, and other threats throughout the world. Given the dangers we 
face as a nation, our men and women in uniform should want for nothing 
in our battle against terror.

I selected the Army to start with because I am very admiring of the 
Chief of Naval Operations, who is alleged to have said recently that 
while he is proud to be Chief of the Navy, his biggest concern today is 
that of the needs of the U.S. Army, and, indeed, the President has 
recently indicated that if all goes well in the course of the hearings 
in the Senate and our committee and the Senate confirms Admiral Mullins 
to be the next Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, he truly inherits that 
mantel of heavy responsibility showing equal regard for our services. 
But he did single out the Army as an institution at this time badly in 
need of the attention, not only of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
office but indeed of the Congress of the United States.

I believe with the increase in the end strength of the Army, we have 
met the President's request to do what we can at this critical time to 
keep our Army strong, particularly for those families who at this very 
moment--thousands and thousands of families--have their loved ones 
serving abroad in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Likewise, the committee approved for the Navy the first next 
generation--that is the first ship in the next generation of our 
carriers, proudly named, in large measure by the urging of the Senate, 
the U.S.S. Gerald Ford for the former President of the United States, 
the former Republican leader in the House of Representatives.

It has also restructured the littoral combat ship program to achieve 
maximum value and accountability. Moreover, we approved $4.1 billion of 
Mine Resistant Ambush Protected--that is the MRAP--vehicles for all the 
services.

The committee also decided to assign fixed-wing, intra-theater 
airlift functions and missions to the Air Force and shift Army aircraft 
funding in 2008 to the Air Force, which was unusual but necessary to 
achieve improved efficiency and synergy in our airlift capability.

While weapons and equipment are critical in any conflict, it is the 
support we give our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines that 
determines success or failure.

We are asking more of our troops today than we did a generation ago--
with longer and successive deployments. Our troops deserve our respect 
and gratitude for the countless sacrifices they and their families make 
daily. I welcome the committee's decision to approve a 3.5 percent 
across-the-board pay raise for all military personnel and the 
authorization of $135 billion in allowances, bonuses and other 
benefits. We are improving the quality of life for our men and women in 
uniform while enhancing our future readiness.

The committee has approved measures that satisfy our current and 
future requirements. We've increased the end strengths of the Army and 
the Marines to 525,400 and 189,000, respectively. By boosting the 
Army's and the Marines' numbers, I hope we can build a more flexible 
active-duty force and deploy reservists more prudently.

I thank the chairman for his leadership. The committee has approved a 
bill that meets the President's request, the needs of our troops and is 
fiscally responsible to our constituents. I hope my colleagues will 
join me and members of the committee in supporting this year's Defense 
authorization bill.

I wish to draw the attention of the Senate at this time to the 
following. We today start this bill amidst great


concern. We start very important legislation at a time in our history 
unlike any I have witnessed. I share the privilege of being among the 
elder Senators in this Chamber. The conflict in Iraq in particular is 
posing extraordinary challenges both to our President, the Commander in 
Chief of the Armed Forces, and to the Congress which must provide the 
needed support. Indeed, we owe no less than the greatest obligation to 
the many people of our United States of America whose families, one way 
or another, are involved in these conflicts--largely by virtue of 
proudly wearing the uniform of one of our services--but there have been 
literally tens of thousands of other Americans who are taking risks in 
these conflicts to give support to the men and women of our Armed 
Forces.

Many colleagues over the recess period have expressed their concerns, 
quite properly, about certain directions that our Nation could be 
taking and is now taking, and otherwise, to address the conflicts--
primarily in Iraq. I anticipate a number of amendments will be brought 
forward in the coming days--weeks, perhaps--as the Senate debates this 
bill. I encourage that. I thoroughly believe the depth of the 
complexity of the Iraq situation deserves the attention of each and 
every Senator. I hope they will avail themselves of such opportunities 
as they can to address their fellow Senators and convey their thoughts.

Several have recently spoken out very strongly on this issue. I 
personally have commended each and every one, even though I may not 
fully agree with all of their statements. This is a critical time in 
America's history. That is the purpose of this Senate, which is 
recognized perhaps as the one forum among the legislative branches 
throughout the world where there is literally almost total freedom for 
any Member of this body to come forward and address his or her fellow 
Senators and express his or her views.

I look forward in the coming days and weeks to engaging in debates. A 
number of us--I don't single myself out, but quite a few--have been 
asked by the press, do we have views at variance with the President's, 
at variance with those of some of our colleagues. I am speaking only 
for myself. I have decided to withhold some of the views I currently am 
looking at. I spent a good deal of time in the recess period visiting 
personally at the various agencies and departments of our Federal 
Government entrusted with intelligence responsibilities, security 
responsibilities, and other responsibilities with regard to these 
conflicts. I profited greatly. Each time, while I may not have agreed 
with everything that was related to me, I was certainly impressed by 
the quality of people and their professionalism throughout the Civil 
Service ranks of our Federal Government with regard to their 
discharging their individual responsibilities at this point in time in 
our history on issues which are extremely complex to resolve.

I also briefly responded to press inquiries this morning about the 
timing of what thoughts I may have, and when I might share them with my 
colleagues. I am frequently--today being an example--speaking privately 
with a number of colleagues in this body on their views. But publicly I 
have decided to withhold some ideas I may have which may be 
incorporated in one or more amendments until such time as the President 
has had the opportunity to address the Nation.

I wish to go back in a very respectful way and remind the Senate of 
the legislation, the appropriations bill passed some 6 or 7 weeks ago. 
That bill included a bill that I and others brought to the Senate 
floor. It received, I think, over a majority of votes. That bill that I 
brought to the floor together with a number of cosponsors--indeed, my 
distinguished colleague from Nebraska was very much an active party 
with it--that bill was embraced in the final version of the 
appropriations bill which became the law of the land.

In that bill the provisions that we discussed and debated here in the 
Senate, and indeed which had passed by a majority vote, required as 
follows. I wish to read the ''Reports Required'' portion.




 The President shall submit an initial report, in classified 


 and unclassified format, to the Congress, not later than July 


 15, 2007, assessing the status of each of the specific 


 benchmarks established above, and declaring, in his judgment, 


 whether satisfactory progress toward meeting these benchmarks 


 is, or is not, being achieved.


I had the opportunity this morning to join his senior staff at the 
White House and discussed my views with them. We discussed this report. 
I left that meeting this morning with the definite impression that the 
White House and other elements of our Government are approaching this 
legislative requirement--which originated in this Chamber and was 
adopted by this Chamber and eventually became law--they are approaching 
that responsibility with an absolutely sincere depth of commitment.

I was asked by the press whether I thought they would brush it off. I 
resoundingly replied, ''No.'' As a matter of fact, I have reason to 
believe that the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense are 
very actively working with senior White House staff and others--the 
Director of our Intelligence, the Director of the CIA--they are all 
actively working in preparation of that report.

I read the next provision in our bill.




 The President, having consulted with the Secretary of 


 State, the Secretary of Defense, the Commander of Multi-


 National forces--Iraq, and the United States Ambassador to 


 Iraq, and the Commander of U.S. Central Command, will prepare 


 the report and submit [it] to the Congress.


Paragraph 3:




 If the President's assessment of any of the specific 


 benchmarks established above is unsatisfactory, the President 


 shall include in that report a description of such revisions 


 to the political, economic, regional, and military components 


 of the strategy, as announced by the President on January 10, 


 2007. In addition, the President shall include in the report, 


 the advisability of implementing such aspects of the 


 bipartisan Iraq Study Group--commonly referred to as Baker-


 Hamilton--as he deems appropriate.


No. 4:




 The President shall submit a second report to the Congress, 


 not later than September 15, 2007, following the same 


 procedures and criteria, outlined above.


No. 5:




 The reporting requirement detailed in section 1227 of the 


 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 is 


 waived. . . .


--given that these reports are going to be put in.

Speaking only for myself, I am going to withhold any comments I have 
specifically in large measure out of deference to exactly what we asked 
the President to do and exactly which I feel the President is about to 
do. I have reason to believe and it is my hope that it is done possibly 
a little earlier than the 15th, since the 15th falls on a day this 
weekend, thereby giving Members the opportunity to see exactly what he 
has done in response--again I reiterate--to the law as written by the 
Congress and a law that originated in this Chamber.

With that, I look forward to the week, working with my colleagues.

I yield the floor.