# TRIBUTE TO PAT KERR
## `5919b1f9c91a5d054d58b60293b788a9`
`Mr. SKELTON â€” 1 November 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, let me take this moment to recognize the 
selfless acts of Pat Kerr. Mrs. Kerr has tirelessly advocated on behalf 
of service members and their families.

After her daughter, CPT. Kat Numerick, was deployed to Iraq, Pat Kerr 
organized successful events at the Capitol to raise support for our 
troops. Mrs. Kerr has earned the reputation of refusing to turn down 
any soldier or family member. She regularly works late into the night, 
spending her own time and money to resolve each family's problems. 
Recently, Mrs. Kerr testified to Congress on the care of wounded 
servicemen.

Due to her relentless work to improve conditions for our troops, Mrs. 
Kerr has been recognized by Traditional Home magazine as a 2007 Classic 
Woman. She will be commended at an award ceremony in New York and will 
be featured in an article in Traditional Home's Classic Woman issue. 
This prestigious distinction comes with a $2,500 contribution from 
Traditional Home, which will be awarded to The Military Family Relief 
Fund.

Currently, Mrs. Kerr continues her career at the Missouri State 
Veterans' Commission. She and her husband, John, care for their 
grandson while Captain Numerick serves her third tour of duty. I trust 
that Members of the House will join me in thanking Pat Kerr for her 
devotion to the brave men and women in our military.
