# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 301,  PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `59647c6ed4b2392319d04c434ebfdc10`
`Mr. DREIER â€” 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, let me begin by expressing my appreciation 
to my very good friend from Worcester for yielding me the customary 30 
minutes.

Mr. Speaker, there is absolutely no question whatsoever that Pakistan 
is ground zero in our struggle against violent extremism. The porous 
border with Afghanistan allowed the Taliban to retreat into Pakistan, 
regroup, and launch new offenses against our troops. Homegrown 
insurgents within Pakistan have perpetrated countless attacks killing 
thousands, including targeting their attacks against our fellow 
Americans.

And recent news reports that we've just had over this past weekend 
have only underscored how critically important it is that civilian 
control--again, Mr. Speaker, civilian control--of the Pakistani 
military and intelligence services is fully exercised. Again, these 
reports that we've had just this past weekend underscore the fact that 
we cannot entrust, we cannot see these other entities within the ISI 
empowered without having civilian oversight within that structure of 
democracy that they have.

Mr. Speaker, the democratically elected Government of Pakistan is 
working to eradicate the terrorist threat on their own soil, to secure 
the border with Afghanistan, and ensure accountability for the 
military. Working with the Pakistani Government to ensure that they're 
successful in doing this is vital to our national security interests. 
For the sake of our troops in Afghanistan and for the sake of stability 
and security in a critical region, we must remain engaged with the 
democratically elected government in Islamabad.

This engagement takes a number of different forms. While we have no 
combat troops in Pakistan, our military commanders have been building 
relationships with their Pakistani counterparts. Particularly, as 
Pakistan continues to go on the offensive against insurgent groups in 
the tribal border region, the technical advisory role of our military 
is a very limited yet a very important one.

Mr. Speaker, our national security leaders--Secretary of Defense 
Gates; Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mullen; Secretary 
of State Clinton; and the Special Envoy, Ambassador Holbrooke--all 
agree the democratic and economic development in Pakistan is at the 
heart of our national security interests. Building strong institutions 
will ultimately ensure that Pakistan is able to fully eradicate the 
violent extremism that threatens both our troops in Afghanistan and 
stability for the entire region. That's why Secretary Clinton along 
with Ambassador Holbrooke and USAID Administrator Shah have put such a 
heavy emphasis on development during their visits just this past week.

There can be no long-term solution to the security challenges we face 
in South Central Asia without Democratic and economic capacity 
building. We have a number of ongoing programs, including, I'm very 
happy to say, our 20-member House Democracy Partnership, on which I 
have the privilege of serving with our great chairman, David Price. We 
are currently working, Mr. Speaker, with the Pakistani legislature. And 
I underscore the House Democracy Partnership because, sadly, not many 
Members of this institution or among the American people are aware of 
the work of the House Democracy Partnership.

We have partnered with 15 legislatures in new and reemerging 
democracies around the world to help build up their parliament. We have 
one of these programs going with the Pakistani Parliament. Through this 
partnership, Members of the United States House of Representatives have 
the opportunity to engage with our counterparts in Islamabad. We've 
been sharing our experiences as a democracy, providing support and 
technical assistance in their efforts to strengthen their legislative 
institutions.

Now, Mr. Speaker, in the case of civilian control of the military, 
this has a very clear and direct tie to our national security issues, 
to the overall national security issues, and to our national security 
interests. But the connections go well beyond the most obvious arenas. 
By improving the capacity of the legislature overall, making the 
government more responsive and accountable to the Pakistani people, 
support for democracy can be solidified.

Now, as we look at this issue, as Democratic institutions strengthen, 
so does the economic environment, providing new opportunity and 
prosperity. There is this interdependence between political and 
economic liberalization. That's why I also introduced a resolution that 
will call for us to begin embarking on negotiations for an FTA with 
Pakistan.

We know very well that democracy and economic opportunity, as I say, 
are the only effective bulwarks against extremism in the long run. 
Through greater trade engagement, we can help build the capacity that 
enables economic growth, which will help to create a more secure, 
stable, free, and open Pakistan. This is clearly in our own strategic 
interest.

The resolution before us today is one that is likely motivated by 
frustrations that many of us share. My very good friend from Cleveland 
and I, Mr. Kucinich and I, share a high level of frustration, 
especially, as I said earlier, with the reports that just came out this 
past weekend, the WikiLeaks report that has been carried widely in The 
New York Times and in other media outlets.

We see the very difficult challenges that our troops are facing in 
the region, and we know that we must do everything we can to address 
them. But, frankly, it's a little puzzling why we would attempt to 
address these challenges through a resolution calling for the 
withdrawal of combat troops from a country where none are deployed. We 
should be focusing our efforts, instead, on the kinds of programs that 
I have described that focus on building of those democratic 
institutions and creating greater, greater economic liberalization.

As we look at this challenge, we all seek peace and prosperity around 
the world, but in this most troubled spot in South Central Asia, we 
have redoubled our efforts to ensure that that happens.

Now, Mr. Speaker, I know that I speak for every single one of my 
colleagues, Democrat and Republican alike, when I say that we want our 
troops in Afghanistan to come home safely, successfully, and soon, as 
soon as possible, and we want to ensure that we will not have to deploy 
them again.

Now, Mr. Speaker, we all know, repeatedly, as we look at nations 
around the world where we have focused in on crises that they have gone 
through jeopardizing our national security interests, we've chosen to 
deal with them often quickly but we have failed to recognize how 
important it is in the long term for us to do the kinds of things that 
will build up democratic institutions and ensure greater economic 
opportunity for these people in these regions. I believe that's a goal 
that we all share and we're all committed to.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.