# None
## `59699661b974e15a537572e3a4cb7fed`
`Mr. LEWIS of California â€” 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. I appreciate the Speaker's help in this 
matter, but in the meantime, I appreciate my colleague yielding.

Mr. Speaker, the wheels have finally come off the appropriations 
process. One need only to look at the sorry state of affairs in which 
we find ourselves as we address these appropriations bills.

Earlier today, the House passed a Transportation-HUD appropriations 
conference report that is $3 billion over the budget request. The 
President has said he will veto this legislation.

Tomorrow the House will vote to sustain the President's veto on a 
bloated Labor-HHS bill that is $10 billion over the budget request. 
That will essentially send the bill back to the drawing board.

And if that is not enough, consider this. It is now 3 days after 
Veterans Day and there is still no sign of the majority moving to 
considered the MilCon-VA bill, a freestanding bill identical to the 
MilCon-VA conference report that was removed from the Labor-HHS 
conference report by a point of order in the Senate, by the way, in the 
other body.

That bill was introduced by Congressman Wicker this week. This 
legislation, which the President said he would sign, could be brought 
to the House floor today. It now appears that a Democrat majority has 
no intent of bringing this legislation to the floor before 
Thanksgiving.

The appropriations process this year has been reduced to what 
Shakespeare might refer to as ''a tale full of sound and fury, 
signifying nothing.''

For all of the time and energy put into these bills this year by 
Members and our overworked, highly professional staff, the end result 
thus far is all sound and fury and very little to show for it.

That leads us to the legislation we are now considering, the so-
called bridge fund. Frankly, that legislation is so ill-conceived and 
damaging to our troops, I hardly know where to begin.

First, let me say that we learned that this bill would be considered 
by the Rules Committee while we were waiting for the Rules Committee 
hearing on the THUD conference report to begin last night. I was given 
no notice whatsoever, nor was I provided any opportunity to testify. It 
is a sad state of affairs when the ranking member of the Appropriations 
Committee isn't even given the courtesy of paper notice


to testify on legislation as important as this. I can't imagine the 
wails and screaming I would have heard last year if the ranking member 
had been put in that position.

The House is being asked to consider a funding bill that reflects the 
priorities of Speaker Pelosi and a deeply divided, extremely left-
leaning Democratic Caucus. It attempts to bridge these widening 
divisions over the war in Iraq through providing funding only on the 
condition that troops are withdrawn beginning 30 days after the bill's 
enactment.



Our troops are badly in need of funding to continue their mission, 
but this legislation ties the hands of our Commander in Chief during a 
time of war, places military decisions in the hands of the politicians, 
and micromanages our combatant commanders in whom we place the ultimate 
responsibility for prosecuting military actions.

If the majority's goal is to end the war or withdraw our troops, then 
that should be addressed in separate legislation. The majority cannot 
have it both ways, pretending on the one hand to support our troops 
while on the other hand undercutting our ability to prosecute their 
mission.

Men and women of good conscience can disagree about the war in Iraq, 
but on one thing we must all agree: Our men and women in uniform must 
continue to receive our unqualified support and the resources they need 
to complete their mission successfully.

By appeasing the wishes of the Out of Iraq Caucus, the Democrat 
majority has chosen to place partisan politics above the lives and 
well-being of our troops in harm's way. This action is reckless and 
irresponsible. There is absolutely no reason why a clean bridge fund 
could not have been included within the DOD conference report which the 
President signed yesterday. Again, the Democrat majority chose to place 
politics ahead of our troops.

My colleagues, consider carefully the consequences of our actions 
here today. Passage of the bridge fund legislation in its present form 
will signal to the insurgents and terrorists that the United States 
doesn't have the political will to continue supporting the fledgling 
Iraqi democracy. Al Qaeda and other enemies of freedom will simply lay 
in wait until our troops are withdrawn. And with the collapse of this 
fragile democracy, our efforts, and the sacrifices of our troops, will 
have been for nothing.

There is no question that the President will veto this bill. In the 
meantime, our troops will face the uncertainty resulting from the 
majority's mixed signals and lack of a clear commitment.

I urge my colleagues to support our troops and oppose this 
legislation.