# None
## `597659c7b6b2146d5fe69719065577c2`
`Mr. GREGG â€” 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I recognize that much of the debate the 
past 2 days has been about our status in Iraq and what we should be 
doing in Iraq relative to the two proposals offered by Senator 
Feingold. Clearly, the issue of how we fight terrorism and how we 
confront the threat of Islamic fundamentalism and its avowed purpose of 
destroying Western culture and specifically targeting America and 
Americans is probably the overriding issue we must address. But right 
behind that issue is the question of what type of nation are we going 
to pass on to our children relative to the fiscal strength of our 
Nation. We confront an issue there which is as significant for the 
prosperity of our children as the issue of terrorism is relative to the 
security of our country.

We are faced with a situation where, as a result of the pending 
retirement of the baby boom generation, three specific programs--
Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security--will grow at such exponential 
rates that they will essentially bankrupt our Nation if we don't do 
something.

This chart reflects those three programs, the red line here, and 
their rate of growth. This black line reflects what has historically 
been the amount of money the Federal Government has spent. The Federal 
Government has historically spent about 20 percent of the gross 
national product of America. These three programs alone, by the year 
2025, 2028--it varies depending on who you talk to--will cost 20 
percent of the gross national product. Trying to put this in 
perspective, by the year 2030, when the baby boom generation is fully 
retired and is receiving its benefits, the cost of supporting that 
generation through Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security will be so 
high that if you put it in the context of what we traditionally spend 
in this Government, we will have no money available to do anything else 
as a government. We will have no money for national defense, no money 
for education, no money for laying out roads, no money for 
environmental protection.


It does not stop there, because the costs incurred continue to go up. 
They continue to go up at such a rate that by about the year 2035, we 
will essentially have a situation where approximately 28 percent or 
more of the gross national product would have to be spent to support 
these three programs.

Then, of course, you have the additional obligations of Government. 
What does that lead to? Well, if that were allowed to occur, it would 
lead to a situation where our children and our children's children 
would be paying so much in taxes to support the costs of maintaining 
these three programs for my generation--the baby boom generation--that 
our children would essentially have no opportunity to send their 
children to college, to buy their first home, to live the prosperous 
and fulfilling lifestyle we have today in America because all those 
discretionary dollars would be absorbed through taxes to support these 
programs.

To put it in a different context, with numbers which are almost 
incomprehensible but which need to be pointed out, we are told by the 
Comptroller


General's Office that the unfunded liability of Medicare, Medicaid, and 
Social Security is $66 trillion. That means after you figure in all the 
money you pay for Social Security taxes, and all the money you pay for 
health insurance taxes, the HI tax, the Medicare taxes--after you 
figure in all that money, there is still a responsibility, an 
obligation on the books that is not paid for. That amounts to $66 
trillion--trillion with a ''T.''

Now, $1 trillion is almost an incomprehensible term, so to try to 
make it a little more comprehensible, if you took all the money paid in 
taxes since our country was formed, since we began, that is $42 
trillion. That is all the money that has been paid in taxes. We have a 
liability on the books that exceeds all the money paid in taxes 
throughout the history of our Nation.

To put it in another context, if you take all the assets of America--
everyone's home, everybody's car, all your stocks, all your small 
businesses--and you add them up--everybody's net worth--that amounts to 
$59 trillion.

So we have a debt on the books that exceeds our net worth as a 
nation. That is called bankruptcy, and that is what we are headed 
toward unless we address this issue.

This week, the administration, under a direction from the Congress, 
sent up a proposal to try to address the biggest part of this problem, 
which is the cost of Medicare.

When we passed the Part D drug benefit for seniors, there was 
language put in that bill--remember that bill was passed with a strong 
bipartisan vote--that said if Medicare started to have its financial 
resources--its support, the dollars that paid for Medicare--come out of 
the general fund at a rate that exceeded 45 percent of the overall cost 
of Medicare, then the trustees--if that was projected to occur for 2 
years over a 7-year period--the trustees were directed to direct the 
President to make a proposal to bring the cost of Medicare back under 
control. It is called a trigger. That is what it is referred to.

Why did we put that in or why was that language put in? It was put in 
because Medicare was always conceived to be an insurance program, even 
though it gets a fair amount of support out of the general fund, the 
general fund being general taxes. Everybody pays their taxes: income 
taxes, corporate taxes. Those taxes are used to operate the Government 
generally: to pay the defense budget, to pay the education budget, to 
pay the environmental agency--to pay the different activities the 
Government undertakes. That is the general fund. Those funds were not 
supposed to be the funds that supported health insurance for seniors.

Medicare was supposed to be an insurance program, as is Social 
Security, where the funds are collected from people, working under the 
HI tax, which you pay, which is withheld. Those funds are what are 
supposed to support Medicare.

If you start taking money out of the general fund, it is generally 
acknowledged--not through too many ''generals,'' but it is generally 
acknowledged you are basically creating an income transfer event, a 
redistribution of wealth event, where you are taking money from 
basically the general operation of the Government and you are putting 
it into the support of people on Medicare who are retired. That was 
never the goal of Medicare.

So recognizing that, but also recognizing that a brandnew benefit was 
being put on the books that was fairly significant--the drug benefit--
it was decided to put in place this law that said we want to keep 
Medicare primarily as an insurance event rather than an event which 
basically is unsupported, a cost that is basically supported by the 
general taxpayers of America who need to support the regular operations 
of the Government: defense, education, things such as that. So this 
trigger was put in.

Well, we have now had the trustees evaluate the Medicare fund, and 
they have concluded that in the 7-year window, under present projected 
spending patterns, Medicare's support--the dollars necessary to support 
Medicare--will require a call on the general fund that will exceed 45 
percent of the general expenditures of Medicare.

That is a serious issue, and it goes to the larger serious issue of 
this unfunded liability question, because Medicare makes up $34 
trillion of the unfunded liability. Do you remember the prior chart, 
where I pointed out there is $66 trillion of unfunded liability? Well, 
of that $66 trillion, the majority of it is the obligations under 
Medicare. So it is Medicare spending that is driving the problem which 
we confront, which is pointed out in this chart, which is that we are 
headed toward a government that our children cannot afford and which 
will bankrupt our children unless we do something.

So this proposal that was put into the Part D drug law, in which the 
trustees direct the President essentially to propose changes in 
Medicare spending, which will allow us to make the Medicare Program 
affordable and continue it to be an insurance program, is a step, and a 
fairly significant step, if followed correctly, down the road toward 
reducing this outyear threat of a fiscal meltdown.

It is critical we heed the law we passed and, specifically, the 
statement and the execution of the statement that has been made by the 
Medicare trustees that the trigger must be exercised. And the 
administration has the obligation to set up a way to accomplish these 
savings.

Now, under the law, the administration sends up its proposal, which 
it has done, which proposal is required to bring the Medicare system 
back into balance, so it is not taking more than 45 percent of the 
general fund. That bill is then required to be introduced by the 
majority and the minority on the House side and Senate side. The 
chairman of the Finance Committee has introduced a bill, I believe last 
night, with myself as ranking member of the Budget Committee as the 
primary sponsor on our side. That does not mean it is agreed to. It 
means that under the law it has to be introduced.


I happen to think what the administration has sent up makes sense. 
But what cannot be denied is that this problem is very real. I was 
extremely surprised, for example, to hear Senator Kennedy say: The 
proposal sent up by the administration is dead on arrival, and the 
administration has trumped up a phony crisis in Medicare.

You tell me how $66 trillion of unfunded liability is a phony crisis 
in Medicare. The Medicare trustees, who have a fiduciary 
responsibility, the highest standard we have under law to protect the 
solvency of the Medicare trust fund, tell us the law is being violated 
and that changes must occur. You tell me that is a phony crisis.

What is unfortunate is this ''bury the head in the sand'' approach 
that is being taken by the majority party, as reflected by Senator 
Kennedy, in facing this issue. This issue must be faced. We need to 
act.

Now, what has the administration suggested we do? They have suggested 
three basics in order to bring this in line.

First--and I cannot understand why anybody opposes this proposal--
they have suggested that under Part D, which is, again, the drug 
benefit, people pay a portion of the premium of the cost of the drug 
benefit. But high-income people pay a very small portion of the cost of 
the drug benefit compared to what they can afford to pay. They pay 
about 25 percent of the cost of the premium of the Part D drug benefit.

Somebody such as Warren Buffett, who qualifies for the Part D 
benefit--I am not picking on him specifically, but he is a national 
figure of some note, and he obviously has a fair amount of assets--his 
premium under Part D, in order to purchase drugs, is being subsidized 
by John and Mary Jones, who work in a restaurant in Nashua, NH, or by 
Bill and Susan Parker, who work in a gas station in Epping, NH. Their 
taxes are actually subsidizing Warren Buffett's drug insurance, his 
ability to buy drugs, which is totally wrong.

What the administration has suggested is that people, individuals who 
have incomes over $80,000, and joint taxpayers who have incomes over 
$160,000, or approximately that amount--fairly wealthy people by 
American standards--should pay more than 25 percent of the cost of 
their drug premium. I think they have suggested they pay 50 percent or 
maybe 60 percent but not the entire premium. They are still going to be 
subsidized by John and Mary Jones who are probably making a lot less 
than $160,000 working at a restaurant in Nashua, NH.

That is their first proposal.



The second proposal they put forward is that we should have an IT 
proposal, something that basically means using technology to 
communicate more effectively the costs of health care, to create a more 
integrated system where you could get more effective information on 
what health care costs in order to drive better purchasing practices. 
We all know that is going to significantly improve the delivery of 
Medicare and all health care, if we do this. It is something that 
should be done and, therefore, is appropriate.

The third thing they have suggested is that we limit basically 
frivolous lawsuits that are driving up the cost of health care and 
actually driving some doctors in the area of OB/GYN--baby doctors--out 
of the practice, that we essentially adopt what is known as the 
California Plan for medical liability insurance--again, a very rational 
approach.

None of the ideas the administration has put forward are radical. 
None of them are even targeted in a way that would significantly affect 
very many beneficiaries. In fact, as to the entire proposal they put on 
the table, 94 percent of Medicare beneficiaries would not be affected 
by any of these proposals--94 percent. Only 6 percent; that is, the 
wealthiest 6 percent, those people with incomes over $80,000 
individually or $160,000 jointly. Those folks having to pay a portion 
of their Part D premium would be impacted, and they should be impacted.

So that proposal has been put forward.

Three ideas--all of them reasonable, all of them initiatives which we 
should be able to accomplish, and which would, if undertaken, actually 
reduce this insolvency in Medicare dramatically. I think the estimates 
are that over the 75-year life, you might take as much as $8 billion 
out of this insolvency number if you did these proposals which the 
administration is suggesting. That is a huge number over 75 years. It 
would actually be a major step in the right direction. But, more 
importantly, it would respond to what the law says we should do. So I 
certainly hope we are not going to sit on our hands.

I see the chairman of the Finance Committee is in the Chamber. He 
says he is going to act. I hope his colleagues will follow him, because 
that is the type of leadership we need.

Now, the administration's three proposals aren't the beginning and 
the end of the process. Anything can be on the table to try to get this 
resolved. But the fact is, we need to resolve it. The trigger has been 
pulled. We are over the 45 percent or we are projected to be going over 
the 45 percent. We need to act not only because of that but because of, 
more importantly, this outyear problem. We have no right as 
policymakers to pass our generation's problem on to our children, which 
is exactly what we are going to do if we don't act. Our generation is 
the one that is creating the issue because of the demands we are going 
to put on the system because we are such a large generation. We are in 
the position of making Government change, and we should address this. 
We should take that action, and I certainly hope we can over the next 
few weeks.

Mr. President, I appreciate the courtesy, and I yield the floor.