# UNITED STATES CAPITOL POLICE ADMINISTRATIVE TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS ACT  OF 2009
## `59c657752c1c76c4c30dcf5e1bb74ba6`
`Mr. SPECTER â€” 25 February 2010`

---


Mr. SPECTER. For purposes of comment at this time, I will focus on 
what we found on our trip to Afghanistan and India as it relates to the 
current war in progress in Afghanistan which has, as a practical 
matter, been extended into Pakistan and a comment about our trip to 
Syria, our meetings with President Assad, as it bears upon the 
potential for a peace treaty between Israel and Syria.

Our visit to Afghanistan was very revealing to get a firsthand 
impression as to what is going on on the ground. I approached the trip 
with serious reservations about the President's proposal to add an 
additional 30,000 troops there. My concern arose in the context of why 
fight in Afghanistan when al-Qaida could organize as well in many other 
places, Yemen or Somalia. There had been such a lack of success in 
efforts in Afghanistan by the Soviets, by the Brits, going all the way 
back to Alexander the Great.

There is no doubt we have to do whatever it takes to defeat al-Qaida, 
because they are out to annihilate us. The question is, where? Where we 
face reports that there were only about 100 al-Qaida actually in 
Afghanistan, we are really looking at a battle with the Taliban.

In our meetings with General McChrystal and other key officials, they 
emphasized the point that we should not retreat and that it would be a 
watershed event if the United States did not provide whatever military 
force was necessary in Afghanistan.

Our delegation replied that the NATO support was lacking and we ought 
to rethink exactly how we are going to deal with the Taliban. The 
efforts to persuade the Taliban to come back and support the Karzai 
government--because there are many there who could be brought back if 
the inducements were sufficient and they were sufficiently confident--
the Karzai government did not lend a whole lot to inspire confidence. 
They had an election which was clouded with fraud. They have sustained 
reports about dealing in the narcotics trade with high-ranking 
officials, repeated evidence of corruption at the highest levels--
hardly inducive to a stable government.

When the President projected a withdrawal by mid-2011, that was not 
what President Karzai had suggested. He was quoted in the press as 
saying, U.S. troops would have to be in Afghanistan for 15 years. When 
our delegation had an opportunity to meet with President Karzai, we 
pressed him on that issue, and he said: Well, 2 years would be required 
for an adequate presence of the U.S. military. He never could quite 
define what ''adequate'' was, but he said U.S. forces would have to 
stay for another 10 years.

More recently, in the intervening weeks, the war there has shaped up. 
We still have only committed a small fraction of the 30,000 troops--
something like 5,000. Perhaps it will not be necessary to commit the 
additional 25,000 troops.

We had a very productive meeting with the Prime Minister of India, 
Prime Minister Singh. A point which we pressed was whether India and 
Pakistan could enter into an arms reduction pact similar to the pacts 
which the United States and the Soviet Union have had, which would 
reduce the number of troops from India and the number of troops from 
Pakistan on the border to liberate more Pakistan military to help in 
the fight against al-Qaida and the Taliban.

Prime Minister Singh said he would certainly be willing to consider 
that, but Pakistan would have to control the terrorists. We questioned 
him as to whether the Pakistani Government could control the 
terrorists, and his reply was very blunt: Yes, the terrorists are the 
creation of Pakistan, which is the way he responded to that situation.

In the intervening weeks, again, there has been unique cooperation 
between Pakistani intelligence and the CIA, with many joint maneuvers, 
so perhaps there could be a material improvement along that line.

The written text, which will be submitted, goes into some greater 
detail, which I shall abbreviate because of the shortness of time.

In Syria, our meeting with President Bashar al-Asad was cordial and I 
think constructive. I had first visited Syria in 1984, and this was the 
19th visit there. I have gone there repeatedly, as I have to the region 
generally, and even more often to Israel, because I have long thought 
Syria was the key to the Mideast peace process.

Syria desperately wants to regain the Golan Heights, and only Israel 
can decide whether it is in Israel's interest to cede the Golan 
Heights. But it is a different world in 2010 than it was in 1967, when 
Israel took the Golan. The strategy is very different in an era of 
rockets. It is not quite the same situation.

There is a great deal Israel could gain if a peace treaty was entered 
into with Syria: stopping Syria from continuing the destabilization of 
Lebanon, which Syria denies but I think happens to be a fact. For Syria 
to stop supporting Hezbollah and Hamas would be very important to 
Israel's security. To try to drive a wedge between Syria and Iran would 
be helpful not only to Israel in the context of the Iranian President 
wanting to wipe Israel off the face of the Earth but would be good not 
only for the region but for the entire world, if we can find a way to 
contain Iran in their determination to acquire nuclear weapons.

Secretary of State Hillary Clinton testified yesterday before the 
Foreign Operations Subcommittee, and I asked her if she would consider 
a recommendation to have the President call the Israeli leaders, Prime 
Minister Netanyahu, and the Syrian President, Bashar al-Asad, to the 
Oval Office to be an intermediary there. The office of the Presidency 
could have great forcefulness and great weight. The Secretary was 
noncommittal, and the record will reflect the exact words which she 
used.

The trip was very worthwhile. I find that when we leave the Beltway 
and leave Washington and see what is actually happening in the field, 
wearing a flak jacket in a helicopter across Afghanistan or talking to 
Foreign Minister Walid Mualem, who was the Ambassador here for 10 
years, and getting a feel for what is going on in India, it gives us a 
much better insight into how we handle our foreign aid, how we handle 
our budget, and how we handle our military operations.
















 Exhibit 1










 Statement of Senator Arlen Specter















 Foreign Travel




 I seek recognition to speak about a Congressional 


 Delegation I took part in from December 28, 2009 to January 


 7, 2010. The CODEL, led by Senator Gregg, comprised of 


 Senators Bayh, Cornyn, Enzi, Klobuchar and their spouses. I 


 was accompanied by my wife, Joan, and my Legislative 


 Director, Christopher Bradish.

