# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO HOUSE AMENDMENT TO  SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2764, CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `5a9e5399489cfc1c1f17dc1abaa0c7e4`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, H. Res. 893 provides for consideration 
of two measures, an amendment to the omnibus appropriations bill to 
provide funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and a continuing 
resolution. Each measure is debatable for 1 hour.

The continuing resolution is necessary to keep the government open 
and running while the omnibus bill is processed and sent to the White 
House for the President's signature.

Madam Speaker, while I have no problem with the rule that is before 
us, I cannot support the underlying funding for Iraq. The tens of 
billions in new money for the war in Iraq has no timetables for 
withdrawal, no limitations, no requirements that the Iraqi Government 
make progress towards reconciliation, no benchmarks, no conditionality, 
nothing. Madam Speaker, this is a blank check.

The new money in this bill represents one cave-in too many. It is an 
endorsement of George Bush's policy of endless war. It is stunning that 
so many have gone along for so long asking no questions, giving this 
President everything he wants.

After years of Bush ineptitude, how dare this Congress provide 
another blank check for this administration. No weapons of mass 
destruction, a constantly changing rationale for our occupation, 
benchmarks for the Iraqi Government that never get met, no democracy, 
no respect for human rights, no reconciliation, a government plagued 
with corruption, and no end in sight. All this, Madam Speaker, and some 
of my colleagues still say, ''stay the course.''

Our brave men and women in uniform have done their job. So many have 
sacrificed, and far too many have made the ultimate sacrifice. They 
have been successful in some areas of Iraq in quelling some of the 
violence, essentially providing the chance, the window of opportunity 
for the Iraqi Government to move ahead with efforts for reconciliation.



The response of the Iraqi Government has been to do nothing. No 
reconciliation.

Isn't our responsibility, as Members of Congress, to raise questions? 
Shouldn't we put pressure on the Iraqi Government to do more? And 
shouldn't we put pressure on our own government to not be such a cheap 
date? Don't we owe our soldiers whom we put in harm's way better than 
acquiescence to a Commander in Chief who is incapable of ever admitting 
error?

Madam Speaker, there is no military victory to be had in Iraq. To the 
extent that this awful situation becomes less awful depends on 
political progress, something the Maliki government doesn't want to do, 
and something our own leaders seem willing to keep putting off.

I want more, Madam Speaker, I expect more, for the sacrifice our 
troops have made. Quite frankly, the status quo is not worth one more 
American dollar or one more drop of American blood. I am sick to my 
stomach when I think of the hundreds of billions of dollars that we 
have already spent in Iraq while we nickel and dime our own people at 
home. None of this war is paid for. It is all borrowed money. It's all 
on the backs of our kids. It's all debt that is being bought up every 
day by China.

Madam Speaker, I long for the day when we have a President who will 
threaten a veto on a bill that fails to provide all our people with 
health care, or that fails to adequately fund education for our 
children. Instead, we have a White House that engages in blackmail 
tactics: Give me what I want on Iraq, with no strings attached, or I'll 
shut the government down.

Those who defend the status quo say that we need to give the 
President whatever he wants so we can assure ''victory.'' ''Victory'' 
at the beginning of this war was ridding Saddam Hussein of weapons of 
mass destruction. When we found that there were none, the definition of 
''victory'' changed. In fact, over the last 5 years, the definition of 
''victory'' has changed several times.

For me, the closest thing to victory is ending this war, getting an 
Iraqi Government that puts national reconciliation above its own self-
interest and getting our troops out of that country and home to their 
families where they belong. I believe the surest way to get that type 
of victory is setting a firm timetable for the U.S. occupation of Iraq 
to end. It will change the dynamic, and it will force the Iraqi 
Government to embrace, rather than avoid, reconciliation.

In fact, in today's Washington Post, the U.S. military has found that 
the strongest point of agreement among all Iraqis across all sectarian 
and ethnic groups is the belief that the U.S. military invasion of 
their country is the primary root of the violent differences among them 
and that the departure of ''occupying forces,'' their words, is the key 
to national reconciliation.

Madam Speaker, the Iraqi people themselves firmly believe that 
reconciliation will not happen until we leave. If the Iraqi people want 
us to


leave, and a majority of the Iraqi Government want us to leave, and a 
majority of the American people want us to leave, then why on Earth are 
we staying?

Let me also state, Madam Speaker, what ''victory'' is not. It is not 
allowing this President to kick the ball down the field and dump this 
war on the next President of the United States. That is called 
''passing the buck,'' and that is what we will be doing if we approve 
this new Iraq money.

One final observation. The war in Iraq has not only cost us dearly in 
terms of human life and treasure, it has also cost us in terms of our 
standing in the world. We have lost the support and the respect of so 
many who have looked to us as a force for what is good, decent and 
positive in world affairs. I warn my colleagues that our lost prestige 
and standing is also a threat to our national security. Madam Speaker, 
I want my country back.

I reserve the balance of my time.