# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `5aa1e724995ebd87af2c7b7c51ec762f`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 22 May 2008`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I wish to thank the Senator from Maryland 
for her passion on behalf of all Americans but particularly those whom 
she represents in Maryland. She has done an amazing job, and I commend 
her for that. I hope all of our colleagues listened to her words about 
what is in this bill because it is extremely important.

This first amendment we will be voting on today--we are going to have 
some pretty important decisions when we vote shortly because the bill 
we are debating does more than provide billions of dollars to fund our 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. What this amendment does is provide 
money for emergencies right here at home in America, including funding 
to respond to natural disasters and our weakened economy.

Now, as we debate this bill, we are facing a choice: Will we support 
the domestic funding to help keep our communities strong at home or are 
we going to simply ignore their needs as we send billions of dollars to 
Iraq and Afghanistan alone?

President Bush has made his position pretty clear. He said that the 
only emergencies worth funding in this bill are the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. He said he is going to veto any legislation that includes 
one penny over his request of $183.8 billion for the wars.

But people across this country are hurting. Workers are facing 
unemployment. Our veterans are having to fight their own Government for 
the services they earned, and communities from Maine to New Hampshire 
to my home State of Washington are struggling to recover from 
devastating storms.

The domestic funding in this amendment would keep jobs here at home, 
repair badly damaged roads, care for our veterans, and help our rural 
communities. I think the President's veto threat shows exactly how out 
of touch he is with the needs of our American people.

As chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, 
Housing and Urban Development, one of the provisions in this bill that 
I am most concerned about is highway and bridge reconstruction. Now, it 
is not that President Bush isn't concerned about highway construction. 
This administration actually requested millions of dollars in emergency 
funding for highway construction in this bill. The problem is, I tell 
my colleagues, that President Bush's concern is for highways in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. In fact, those are the only requests for roads and 
bridge repairs by the President in this supplemental.

Meanwhile, the Federal Highway Administration is currently sitting on 
a backlog of applications totaling over half a billion dollars for 
roads and bridges that have been destroyed by natural disasters right 
here at home in America. They are still struggling in Louisiana to 
rebuild roads that were damaged during Hurricane Katrina and the heavy 
rains of 2006. Texas needs help to rebuild after Hurricane Rita and 
floods over the last 2 years. Large sections of roads in Maine and New 
Hampshire were destroyed in floods last spring. In Oregon and in my 
home State of Washington, we are still fighting to recover from 
devastating floods that were caused by storms of last December.

Let me give my colleagues an idea of what I am talking about. This 
photo shows us roadwork that is being done in Afghanistan. Now, in this 
supplemental appropriations bill, the President requested more than 
$725 million for construction, repair, and restoration of roads and 
bridges in Iraq and Afghanistan. The money the President is requesting 
includes over $300 million for the Commander's Emergency Response 
Program for road projects in Iraq and Afghanistan; $50 million for 
Afghanistan's Bamiyan-Dowshi Road, as well as another $275 million for 
other roads in Afghanistan. He is also asking for another $100 million 
in military construction projects for road projects in Bagram, 
Afghanistan, and elsewhere. My concern is that the President wants to 
fund these roads overseas, and yet he is ignoring that 21 States right 
here are waiting--waiting--for emergency help with roads and bridges 
that are eligible for Federal aid--roads in Louisiana, Maine, 
Minnesota, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas, and Washington.

Let's be clear. We are not talking just about fixing potholes.

I ask unanimous consent to have a table which displays all of the 
States that are waiting for emergency relief printed in the Record.