# ORDER OF PROCEDURE
## `5bc436571f2f687f2bb87c246991ce6a`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. I join my leader in the objection because I do hope we 
can work it out, that we do not have to resort to a bill status. 
Everybody knows what the rules are and how that would then involve the 
President in a bill status. This should be a matter handled by the 
Senate and the other body, should they so desire.

I say to my distinguished leader, I did mention this afternoon that I 
was going to take these steps--basically the changes from the original 
one, which we filed a week ago. Senator Nelson, Senator Collins, and 
myself are still there. There is no major significant changes. We added 
a provision regarding the serious problem I and other Senators see--and 
we learned of it in the open session on Friday in the Armed Services 
Committee and again this morning in closed session--of the need to 
clarify this question of how a dual command can take place in each of 
the nine provinces of Baghdad between the Iraqi military and the U.S. 
military. And, General Keane, on Friday, said he is going to urge 
General Petraeus to try to work with that. I think that can be handled, 
but it has to be clarified.


The other thing is that some colleagues thought maybe we were laying 
the foundation of this body of the constitutional right of curtailing 
funds. That was never the intention, and that is made quite clear. The 
rest of it are changes that I believe are not ones that in any way 
affect basically the thrust of the original resolution, which was to 
try to put before the Senate as an institution the viewpoints of a 
bipartisan group--now 11 in number and others I think desiring to 
join--such that if the Senate speaks in some way on this eventually, 
after a debate, it represents to the American public the best efforts 
of this institution to reach a degree of bipartisanship on an issue 
which I think is one of the most important that I have visited in my 
now 29th year in the Senate.

So I thank both leaders, and I join my distinguished leader at this 
time in the objection because I do hope we do not have to resort to 
legislative need of a bill.