# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `5bcfbcc785bd543fd908db49fc77bf66`
`Mr. ALLARD â€” 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, I spoke last week in the Budget Committee, 
of which I am a member, about the differences between this year's 
consideration of the budget resolution and last year's.

Last year, we were obligated to accept the assurances from the 
majority that under their new regime pay-go would be respected, 
spending would be curbed, the entitlement crises would be addressed, 
and the debt would be attacked.

I do want to take a moment to respond to the attempt of my colleague 
from Rhode Island--who just left the floor--about trying to say this is 
all President Bush's problem. It is not. It is all of our problem. For 
example, the budget we have before us has over $2 trillion that it adds 
to the national debt. There are some basic reforms we have to do if we 
are going to correct the debt problem that has been accruing over the 
years. We have to reform entitlements especially.

We now, however, have results in this budget, not predictions. When 
all was said and done last year, there was an $83 billion increase in 
discretionary spending. There was $143 billion in pay-go violations. We 
did not close the tax gap. We added to the debt. We did nothing for 
entitlement reform. Reconciliation was used to add spending, not reduce 
it. Reconciliation was originally put in for that sole purpose: to 
reduce spending. We assumed tax increases.

So as we begin consideration of the fiscal year 2009 budget 
resolution, I hope everyone is aware of what was promised last year and 
what transpired. I hope they will use that knowledge when considering 
this budget document.

I would like to talk about the items that concern me in this budget. 
Now that our economy is trending in the wrong direction, and when we 
really need the benefits of a reasonable and progrowth tax policy, we 
are going to depress our economic growth by adding to the debt and 
increasing taxes in this budget.

We are not addressing the entitlement crises in this budget. Everyone 
knows it is there. It is a huge avalanche of debt waiting to bury our 
future. The sooner we act, obviously, the better. The longer we wait, 
the more drastic it will be, and more expensive. But we do nothing. We 
are not even doing something as productive as fiddling. We are just 
talking, year after year, and perhaps wishing our national debt will go 
away.

In this budget, we are raising taxes on the middle class. This budget 
cannot be paid for by closing the tax gap. It cannot be paid for by 
closing loopholes. It cannot be paid for by shifting dates around on 
revenues or outlays. And it surely cannot be paid for by increasing the 
taxes paid by the super-rich, the rich, or just the very-well-to-do. It 
will only be paid for by reaching down into the average earners and 
raising their taxes as well. Under this budget, the average family with 
children will pay $2,300 more each year. Seniors will pay $2,200 more 
each year. Small businesses will pay $4,100 more each year.

When we consider these tax increases, let's remember, last year we 
were assured we would see tax relief. The first vote we were presented 
on the budget last year was to budget for an


alleged middle-class tax cut. But this never materialized.

What has materialized is spending increases. This budget adds $210 
billion over 5 years. The gross debt will expand by $2 trillion by 
2013. This year, we are spending three-quarters of a billion dollars of 
the Social Security surplus. This year, we are increasing spending by 
$22 billion, without fully funding the war.

Now, about that. I know there will be those who say they are just 
following the President. But the budget is a congressional document. 
Say what you want about the ideas in this document, but it was written 
and prepared on the sixth floor of Dirksen, not in the White House. The 
''they did it first'' argument is not one I accepted from my children, 
and I am not going to accept it here.

We know the war is expected to cost $170 billion this year. We have 
an obligation to budget for that amount. It is honest budgeting. I will 
be offering an amendment to do just that. If we are going to pay for 
this war, fiscal discipline and legitimate budgeting requirements 
demand that we include those costs.

There are those who do not want to fund our campaign in Iraq. There 
are those who want to end the war as soon as possible, regardless of 
the damage that might do. They are entitled to those views. But there 
is no legitimate reason to fail to include the known estimates of the 
war into our budget. Failure to do so is pure gimmickry and devalues 
the budget exercise in which we are engaged. Hiding the war costs from 
view, when every Member knows we will be spending more, is ridiculous.


On that topic, my second great concern with this budget is the budget 
continues the erosion of fiscally responsible processes. We are seeing 
increases in reserve funds. There are 37 this year, up from 24 last 
year. They contain up to $300 billion in spending that hangs over our 
Treasury and taxpayers as a threat. I have heard them referred to as 
harmless, but any device that serves to weaken the authority and 
legitimateness of our budget is simply not harmless.

Many feel these reserve funds have become an overcomplicated type of 
sense of the Senate, but they weave weakness into what should be a 
rigid and honest budget document.

Another erosion of fiscal discipline is the use of reconciliation--a 
process originated to cut Government spending--for spending increases. 
We saw that last year. We have heard rumors and intentions of it being 
done again this year. Unfortunately, this will be something we are not 
sure of until it is too late, and that is when the conference report is 
before us.

We also see pay-go rules being verbally respected but ultimately 
dodged through various ploys. The first year test of deficit neutrality 
was dropped. We have shifted the timeliness of tax payments and 
spending costs to meet technical definitions that have no basis in 
reality. We have enacted wildly unrealistic program cuts and sunsets to 
hide true costs. Pay-go has been promised and praised, but it allowed 
$143 billion in deficit spending to occur.

I noticed when we started the session this year, Senator Gregg, our 
ranking top Republican on the Budget Committee, was pointing to his 
Swiss cheese example of how they have been able to get around the pay-
go rules.

I believe Congress, and especially the Budget Committee, should be 
committed to rigid budget discipline, not politically expedient 
gamesmanship. I would urge a return to a tighter and more credible 
budget document. I plan to offer several amendments to shore up the 
fiscal discipline we are seeing erode in this budget.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.