# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS MOTION TO PROCEED
## `5c02eaad79d9f770e6847607a240d46f`
`Mr. INHOFE â€” 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, today we had a very interesting hearing 
where we had General Casey and Secretary Geren and others before the 
Armed Services Committee. I want to make sure that before we leave on 
this recess we have one more chance to talk about the significance of 
the McConnell-Stevens emergency supplemental appropriations bill. It is 
vital to our troops overseas, and it is important to the future of our 
Armed Forces.

As Senator McConnell stated earlier today--and I am quoting now--he 
said:




 Because we have a responsibility to provide this funding to 


 our men and women in uniform as they attempt to protect the 


 American people, we need to get a clean troop funding bill to 


 the President.


I would like to associate myself with these words and these remarks 
and also express my support for the supplemental he has sponsored.

The emergency supplemental offered by the Democrats, on the other 
hand, is the epitome of everything that is wrong with the 110th 
Congress. It is a bill we all know does not have the 60 votes needed to 
pass. This is not new to this Congress. We have had 61 votes related to 
Iraq measures; 29 of those votes were here in the Senate. If those on 
the other side of the aisle want to continue to play politics, now is 
not the time to do it.

The current war supplemental expires in 2 days--now, the reason I 
know that is true is that happens to be expiring on my birthday--which 
I hope I don't--and the Department of Defense will be required to start 
pulling from their nonwartime budget to pay for ongoing operations in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

I understand that some of my colleagues want us out of Iraq 
regardless of what the facts on the ground may be, but not sending a 
clean supplemental bill to the President before we go home for the 
Thanksgiving recess is an absolute travesty. Forcing the Department of 
Defense to start reprogramming funds to keep our brave men and women 
fully equipped in Iraq and Afghanistan will jeopardize our efforts to 
maintain, sustain, and transform our Armed Forces, not to mention 
create an accounting nightmare. We went through this once before and we 
saw the trauma that resulted from it.

Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England, in a November 8 letter, 
stated


that a delay in war funding would force us in December to begin 
preparing to close facilities, laying off Department of Defense 
civilian employees, and delaying contracts. According to England, it 
would completely drain the Army's operations and maintenance accounts 
by the end of January, and the training of the Iraqi security forces 
will be delayed without this supplemental.

While fighting the war on terror, we cannot forget about our efforts 
to sustain and transform our Armed Forces. Pulling money away from such 
projects will cost us dividends in the future. We talked about that 
this morning, that we have a lot of things that are happening for our 
ground forces. We have the future combat systems we are involved in 
right now, and we cannot allow FCS to keep sliding as it does.

Other countries that are potential adversaries would be in a position 
actually to have better equipment than we do. A good case in point 
would be our best artillery piece happens to be called a Paladin. It is 
World War II technology. It is actually one where, after every round, 
you have to get out and swab the breech. People do not realize that. 
There is an assumption out there in America that America has the best 
of everything--the best strike vehicles, the best lift vehicles--and it 
is just not true. We do not. But this is one of the problems we will 
have if we do not continue to fund these efforts.

I have a hard time understanding why now, of all times, we would 
withhold funding for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Why now, when 
we are turning the corner in Iraq and our troops are making remarkable 
progress under the leadership of General Petraeus, would we hand the 
enemy off, tell them to lay low until December of 2008, and you can 
have the country then?


This proposed emergency supplemental by the Democrats sends the wrong 
message to our troops fighting in Iraq and in Afghanistan. It tells 
them: We will give you the funding to fight your war, but we don't 
believe in what you are doing.

I do not presume to speak for every American service man and woman 
fighting overseas, but I have met with a great many of them and have 
spoken with many of the families back home. It is kind of interesting 
that I have had the opportunity--and I say opportunity in a very 
sincere way--to have visited the area of responsibility of Iraq more 
than any other Member; actually, some 15 times, and I will be returning 
there in 2 more weeks. So when I talk about the military, these are the 
ones whom I have talked to on the ground. I watched Ramadi change from 
the al-Qaida declared capital to Iraqi control. That was a year ago 
right now when they declared Ramadi would become the terrorist capital 
of the world. I can remember Fallujah, when we were going from door to 
door, our marines, who were doing a great job. It is now completely 
secure, but not by Americans. It is secure by the Iraqi security 
forces.

I visited the Patrol Base Murray south of Baghdad and met with local 
Iraqis who came forward and established provisional units of 
neighborhood security volunteers. These individuals heard that the 
Americans were coming and were waiting to greet them when they arrived.

I watched these Neighborhood Watch and Concerned Citizens groups take 
root in Anbar Province--I think everyone realizes now that Anbar 
Province is kind of the success story over there--local civilians who 
were willing to take back their cities and their provinces. These 
citizens actually go out and paint circles around undetonated IEDs and 
RPGs, and it is something they are doing so we don't have to do it. Now 
in Iraq, in visiting the joint security stations, you see that our 
kids, instead of going back to the green zone in Baghdad, for example, 
go out and actually live with the Iraqi security forces and develop 
intimate relationships with them. When you see these operations take 
place, it is very gratifying.

We had the report yesterday up in 407 in a security environment about 
the successes in Iraq, and while that was a classified briefing, the 
information they gave is not classified. When you look, you can 
compare, as shown here--and I wish I had a chart so it could be shown--
October of 2005, the Iraqi security forces had 1 division headquarters, 
4 brigade headquarters, and 23 battalions they were leading in their 
own areas of responsibility. Now, 2 years later, in October of 2007, 
the Iraqi security forces have 10 division headquarters, 33 brigade 
headquarters, and 85 battalions. It shows that two-thirds of the entire 
area we have in Baghdad is now under control and under security. More 
than 67,000 Iraqis are serving as the concerned local citizens 
assisting coalitions and Iraqi security forces to secure their own 
neighborhoods.

Locals in Baghdad's east Rashid district are helping secure forces 
and locate IEDs. All of these things are going on right now.

I want to wind up. I know the majority leader has time he wants to 
share with us. But I have to say that Lieutenant General Odierno stated 
on November 1:




 Over the past four months, attacks and security incidents 


 have continued to decline. This trend represents the longest 


 continuous decline in attacks on record.


None of this is to say the war is over. We understand that. But I 
would have to say this: When I listened to my very good friend, the 
senior Senator from Massachusetts, talk about the doom and gloom, the 
facts that he cited just flat aren't true. We are winning. We are 
aggressively winning. Good things are happening. I have to say you 
don't get that from reading reports. You need to go over there and look 
for yourself.

The senior Senator from Massachusetts and I agree on a lot of things. 
He has been very active with me on doing something about the western 
Sahara problem. He is concerned about what Joseph Coney is doing in 
northern Uganda. We are together on a lot of things. But as far as Iraq 
is concerned, he has never made a trip--not one. I have been to A.O.R. 
15 times. You have to go over there. I see it as our responsibility as 
Members of this Senate body. We are encouraged to go over by the 
military because this encourages our troops who are over there. When 
you go, they look at you in the eyes and they say: Why is it a lot of 
the American people don't agree with what we are doing over here? They 
know there were actually several terrorist training camps in Iraq prior 
to the time we were over there. In one they were teaching people how to 
hijack airplanes. All of those are closed down now. It has been a very 
significant thing. Nothing is more important than continuing along the 
lines of victory as we are today and finishing the job we have been 
carrying on in Iraq.

I applaud all of the young people over there. I said today in this 
hearing that I was a product of the draft and I always felt we would 
never be able to conduct this type of activity unless we had compulsory 
service. I have always supported compulsory service. But when I go over 
and I see these young volunteers, all of them total volunteers who are 
over there, the dedication they have, the commitment they have, I get 
very excited and I realize I was wrong. Those guys are doing a great 
job and we don't need to have compulsory service because we have great, 
dedicated Americans who are volunteering on a daily basis. The 
retention rates have never been higher than they are right now. Those 
individuals who come to the end of their term are reupping in numbers 
and in statistics we have never seen before. So good things are 
happening. We need to get this supplemental finished so we can have the 
continuity of funding over there and not have to rob other areas of our 
defense system. I am hoping we will be able to do this.

I thank you very much for the time.

I yield the floor.