# ACCOMMODATING THE NEEDS OF THE MILITARY
## `5cc2cc08926dcf730769a02ebe3a2afc`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS â€” 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. The Senator is exactly right. I will address that in 
my comments in a few minutes. It is not fair to the taxpayers in 
general but specifically those communities that are affected, as 
communities in Oklahoma and Georgia are, that we now come back and say: 
I know you have made these plans and you were preparing to receive 
additional infrastructure, but now it will not happen because the folks 
in the Senate have decided they want to spend that money on social 
programs as opposed to spending it on our military.

I do rise today to support my colleagues in restoring funds for the 
Department of Defense fiscal year 2007 BRAC requirements in the 
continuing resolution. The fiscal year 2007 President's budget 
requested $16.7 billion for MILCON, which included $5.7 for fiscal year 
2005 base realignment and closure actions required to meet a statutory 
deadline of September 15, 2011, to complete all realignments and 
closures.

The fiscal year 2007 Defense authorization bill authorized MILCON 
appropriations of $17.4 billion after accounting for $278 million in 
prior year rescissions proposed by appropriators in both Chambers. The 
final authorized amount was $17.1 billion--$400 million above the 
President's budget for fiscal year 2007.

The Senate passed a fiscal year 2007 MILCON appropriations bill at 
$434 million below the fiscal year 2007 President's budget by cutting 
the BRAC request and accounting for additional rescissions. The House 
version of the fiscal year 2007 MILCON appropriations bill is $803 
million below the President's budget, and it cut BRAC and $500 million 
in projects requested in the President's budget. No conference 
allocation was provided and a conference agreement was never reached.


A continuing resolution was enacted through February 15, 2007, at 
levels equaling the fiscal year 2006 appropriations, but currently does 
not allow for military construction new starts in fiscal year 2007. In 
addition, the fiscal year 2006 BRAC appropriation is $4 billion below 
the request for fiscal year 2007. Therefore, over 90 percent of the 
authorized fiscal year 2007 MILCON projects will not be able to be 
constructed.

The new CR language proposed by House and Senate appropriators on 
January 30 would provide fiscal year 2007 MILCON funds at levels 
requested in the fiscal year 2007 President's budget, but would 
underfund BRAC in fiscal year 2007 by $3 billion, seriously 
jeopardizing the ability of the Department of Defense to carry out all 
BRAC actions by 2011.

Senator Inhofe offered a bill in early January that I cosponsored 
along with several other Members of the Senate that would appropriate 
funds for all MILCON projects authorized in the fiscal year 2007 
Defense authorization bill.

The administration issued a Statement of Administration Policy on 
January 30, strongly opposing the reductions that are in the continuing 
resolution we are considering. The Secretary of Defense and the service 
chiefs and Secretaries have met with many of us to provide an 
assessment of the impact on military programs as well as military 
readiness. By cutting $3.1 billion in the fiscal year 2007 BRAC 
request, the proposed continuing resolution does not allow the 
Department to carry out the investments and the timing required to 
complete all BRAC initiatives by 2011. That is a statutory requirement 
established to assist communities affected by BRAC by mandating an 
accelerated transition to aid in economic recovery.

Deferring funds will result in higher contract costs as construction 
will be delayed and ultimately compressed in a tighter execution 
timeframe, forcing a greater demand for limited resources. Resolving 
this issue has the support of key members of the Senate Appropriations 
Committee, as well as many military and local community advocacy 
groups.

I understand the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee 
intends to attempt to restore BRAC funding in the supplemental 
appropriations bill. But what kind of solution is this? Supplemental 
funds have been requested by the President for military operations in 
Iraq as well as Afghanistan. The funds requested in the supplemental 
are critically needed to purchase equipment for force protection and 
IED defeat initiatives. These funds would be used to train and equip 
Iraqi security forces. The funds will be used for military 
intelligence, coalition support, and other regional operations in the 
global war on terror.

Since when do base realignments and closures qualify as an emergency 
directly supporting the global war on terror? How do we explain to the 
American taxpayer that BRAC should be considered along with body armor, 
additional military end strength, and vehicles being used in Iraq and 
Afghanistan?

Furthermore, we are having this discussion because my colleagues who 
developed the resolution share with all of us the common goal to reduce 
overall Government expenditures. In that spirit, what critical 
warfighting requirement do we cut in the supplemental to pay for the 
BRAC increase that is proposed? What do we deny to our frontline 
fighting troops? While I heard the idea of funding BRAC in the 
supplemental, I have not heard one idea on how we pay for it.

Do they instead advocate for an increase in the supplemental? Why not 
just add funds to the resolution we have in front of us, as this is 
proper? Could it be they want to hide the additional funds they have 
inserted for domestic programs by pushing BRAC to an inappropriate 
method of funding? Is this how we propose to manage military 
appropriations for the future? By using budget gimmicks and shell games 
which will have devastating results for the military and for local 
communities? We must address full fiscal year 2007 funding for BRAC in 
this continuing resolution.



Including funds for BRAC in the CR is critical to modernizing and 
increasing the readiness of our Armed Forces.

The current CR provides $2.7 billion for Base Realignment and Closure 
programs, which is $3.1 billion below the President's request, as I 
previously stated. These reductions are inconsistent with congressional 
emphasis on force and readiness. Such a severe reduction to BRAC 
funding will force the Department to rephase BRAC implementation plans. 
This will have a negative ripple effect on the movement of troops and 
missions throughout our global defense posture restructuring.

This planned approach could delay force rotations to Iraq and 
Afghanistan, as well as the Army's overall readiness posture, which 
relies on completing the Modular Force conversions on time. This move 
will impact readiness. And soldiers at Fort Campbell, Fort Drum, and 
Fort Stewart will not have adequate places to train, work, or sleep.

This move will devastate the Department's ability to complete BRAC 
actions within statutory deadlines. It will stymie efforts to construct 
facilities and move equipment and people to receiver locations, thereby 
impeding our ability to realize savings and organizational 
efficiencies. Over 82 percent of the fiscal year 2007 BRAC request is 
for construction that is required before these moves can occur. The 
current continuing resolution cuts funding for family housing by $300 
million below the President's request. This will directly and adversely 
affect the quality of life of our servicemembers by perpetuating the 
continued use of inadequate facilities where they work, train, and 
live.

Regarding my home State of Georgia, the following projects will be in 
jeopardy--and these are going to have very serious consequences to the 
ability to train and give quality of life to the soldiers, which they 
deserve--a child development center at Fort Benning; two trainee 
barracks complexes at Fort Benning; training brigade complex at Fort 
Benning; fire and movement range at Fort Benning; modified record fire 
range at Fort Benning; brigade headquarters building at Fort Benning; 
stationary gunnery range at Fort Benning; Marine Corps Reserve center 
at Robins Air Force base; Marine Corps Reserve center in Rome, GA; 
three facilities to prepare Moody Air Force Base to receive A-10 
aircraft; and relocation of a vehicle maintenance complex at Robins Air 
Force Base.


None of these improvements can be made for our fighting men and women 
without this funding. It is imperative we do so in this CR.

Mr. President, I inquire as to how much time I have remaining?