# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `5ce60e2dc6eee392a1ec97bfa50307d1`
`Mr. BUNNING â€” 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. BUNNING. Thank you very much.

Mr. President, I rise to talk about the 2010 Department of Defense 
appropriations bill. There are several parts of this legislation I 
would like to discuss. But first of all, I would like to talk about the 
process the majority has used for this bill.

This past weekend, we passed an omnibus bill that jammed together six 
different appropriations bills. I had high hopes that this year we 
would not have to resort to an Omnibus appropriations bill. We have 
done it in the past. I was hoping this year we would not. I hoped we 
could go through regular order and give each bill the time and 
attention it deserves. In fact, I think we could have done that if we 
were not spending so much time on the floor with this monstrous health 
care bill. We have had a lot of floor time but not much action on 
health care. However, earlier this week, we passed a bill containing 
all the remaining appropriations bills, except the one for funding the 
Department of Defense.

Why was this done? Why was this bill left for last? It was done 
because this bill was used as a political football. The majority felt 
that because this bill contains important funding for our troops, they 
could attach unrelated provisions to it and then insinuate that anyone 
who has concerns about these provisions and tries to slow down the bill 
to look at them is jeopardizing our fighting men and women. In fact, 
some Members of the majority have made those claims this week.


My question to them is, why didn't the majority include the 
appropriations for the Department of Defense in the omnibus we just 
passed? The funding for our troops could have been signed by the 
President and made into law by now. However, the majority wanted to use 
this funding as a political hammer. This is not right, and the American 
people should know what is really going on here. Our troops deserve 
better.

I wish to talk about some of the provisions contained in this bill, 
beginning with the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay.

The bill before us does provide that no detainees from Guantanamo may 
be released into the United States. It also does not provide funding 
for the closure of the Guantanamo detainee facility. These are good 
provisions, but they are not good enough. This bill does not prevent 
sending these prisoners to the United States for trial and housing them 
in our own backyards. It would be much improved if it contained a 
complete ban on moving them to the United States.

On January 22, 2009, President Barack Obama signed an Executive order 
to close the detention center at Guantanamo Bay. I am against the 
shutting down of that facility. It is absolutely irresponsible to order 
this closure and not have a plan in place to address what the United 
States will do with all the detainees held there. Under no 
circumstances should they be brought to the United States. The 
terrorists housed at Guantanamo Bay are the worst of the worst. I have 
personally visited these facilities and met with the brave men and 
women who guard these detainees. As long as the terrorists remain 
housed at Guantanamo, they cannot harm us or any of our allies. 
However, the administration has seen fit to push ahead on sending 
Guantanamo detainees to the United States. In fact, we learned they now 
plan to send some of the most dangerous terrorists in the world to 
Illinois. President Obama could not bring the Olympics to Illinois, but 
it looks as though he will bring terrorists there instead. The plan 
appears to be to use a currently empty supermax facility in 
northwestern Illinois to hold Guantanamo detainees.

I think bringing these terrorists to the United States is a terrible 
idea. First of all, there are serious legal problems associated with 
bringing these terrorists to our soil. The Supreme Court has noted that 
it is ''well established that certain constitutional protections 
available to persons inside the United States are unavailable to aliens 
outside of our geographic borders.''

The nonpartisan Congressional Research Service said that 
''noncitizens held in the United States may be entitled to more 
protection under the Constitution than those detained abroad.'' This 
means they could be afforded extra rights which are available to 
American citizens. They could include protection under the fifth 
amendment due process clause, which would cover how they are confined, 
or they also may raise claims regarding religious practices.

Furthermore, while the Obama administration may not have the 
intention to release any detainees, their wishes could be overruled by 
a civilian judge. Guantanamo detainees who are cleared for release 
have, in fact, petitioned the court to be released into the United 
States. Last year, a Federal judge even approved such a request before 
being overruled by an appellate judge. The reason the higher court 
cited for overturning the ruling was that the government could not be 
forced to accept someone into the United States from outside the 
country. If we start bringing detainees to the United States, this 
legal safeguard will be removed.

Throughout the debate on whether closing Guantanamo is good policy, 
supporters of the idea have consistently maintained that the facilities 
serve as a lightning rod for anti-U.S. sentiment and that it is used as 
a recruiting tool for terrorists. I don't buy that argument. I would 
argue that the greatest recruiting tool for these terrorists is the 
United States itself and our way of life with democracy and freedom of 
religion. What if it was found that the Statue of Liberty was being 
used as a symbol to incite attacks on our country? Would we tear it 
down? Of course not. The United States has suffered many terrorist 
attacks prior to the opening of the Guantanamo Bay facility, including 
the horrific events of September 11, 2001. If we close this facility, 
then those who hate us will simply find another tool of motivation for 
their followers.



The bottom line is that the Guantanamo Bay detention facility works 
and we are putting ourselves at a disadvantage by not using it. I wish 
this bill had taken a stronger position on making sure this facility is 
not abandoned.

As everyone here knows, this bill also provides further funding for 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. I was glad to see that the President 
finally announced a plan for Afghanistan earlier this month. We waited 
far too long for this decision. I was very concerned that this wait was 
unnecessary and was putting the lives of our servicemembers at risk. I 
am glad he finally heeded the call of our commanders on the ground for 
more troops. In fact, I agree with the bulk of his strategy for waging 
the war in Afghanistan.

However, I strongly disagree with him on one particular issue. I have 
serious concerns about the administration's decision to set a timetable 
for troop withdrawal. I could not disagree more with the announcement 
that U.S. troops will begin leaving Afghanistan in July of 2011.

What makes this situation even more confusing is that the 
announcement also claimed that any withdrawal will take conditions on 
the ground into account. This is puzzling and it is a contradiction. 
What will the administration do if conditions on the ground dictate 
that no troops be removed from Afghanistan? Will it proceed with a 
withdrawal anyway? I don't want to keep any of our brave men and women 
in Afghanistan any longer than absolutely necessary, but we have work 
to do. Leaving before it is done is unacceptable.

By announcing an arbitrary deadline for our forces to come home, 
possibly before the job is done, the President is telling our enemies 
how long they will have to hold out and wait until we leave. They will 
bunker down and emerge after we are gone. It is unimaginable what the 
horrible consequence of this would be. I was glad to see this strategy 
rejected in Iraq, and it is no less foolish to apply it to the war in 
Afghanistan. I fear we could be setting our efforts up for defeat and 
putting our fighting men and women in further danger, and I am deeply 
troubled by this.

While I strongly oppose President Obama's notion for a timeline for 
withdrawing from Afghanistan, I do support his call for a surge of 
troops to stabilize the country. We learned a great deal from our 
counterinsurgency strategy implemented by GEN David Petraeus and 
Ambassador Ryan Crocker in Iraq. He knew that if the U.S. forces spent 
most of their time only in a small protected area such as the Green 
Zone in Baghdad, then little would be accomplished.


The surge in Iraq was successful not only because there were simply 
more troops in Iraq; it was what they did that mattered. By simply 
going out into insurgent areas and being more visible, this gave 
reassurance to the local populations that Americans were still around, 
but it did not stop there. Previously, coalition forces would clear an 
area but then retreat. This time, they were there to stay.

Our soldiers became involved with the local communities, assisting 
with infrastructure and even doing things such as helping to set up 
farm co-operatives. The strategy evolved from only clear, to clear, 
hold, and build. Soon, our forces had the trust of the locals. The 
citizens of Iraq began to help with the stabilization and rebuilding of 
their country. They began to cooperate with our military efforts and 
help us fight insurgents. Before, they were scared and powerless. Now 
they were safe and had the ability to make their lives better. These 
conditions have made it very difficult for our enemies to operate. It 
is now time to apply these lessons to Afghanistan. It is time to clear, 
hold, and build there.

It is unfortunate but true that the Afghan Government suffers from a 
deplorable level of corruption. However, it will not do us any good to 
refuse to help until things get better. This is because they won't get 
better without our help. The citizens in Afghanistan by and large do 
not trust their government, and this creates an atmosphere that is very 
helpful to our enemies. When our forces move into communities, they 
create stability and undermine insurgent forces and corruption.

Use of the proper strategy can help improve the government, as we 
have seen in Iraq. However, if it is not improved, then the people will 
never trust it and it will not protect them. They will have no choice 
but to comply with the wishes of the insurgents. Eventually, the 
government will slide into chaos and the Taliban and al-Qaida will 
return to power. We cannot let this happen. A return to Afghanistan's 
previous status as an unhindered launching pad for global terrorist 
plots is totally unacceptable. We know all too well what the 
consequences of this are. However, it could possibly get even worse 
than that.

We have seen the difficulties Pakistan has had in fighting the 
Taliban on its own soil. Currently, U.S. and NATO forces are fighting 
and hopefully soon beating the Taliban and al-Qaida in Afghanistan. If 
we were to leave before finishing the job, the result could be 
disastrous for Pakistan. A Taliban-controlled Afghanistan would be a 
sanctuary and staging point for the radical Islamist terrorists to 
attack from. Pakistan is a nuclear power, and its fall to these groups 
would be utterly catastrophic.

Victory in Afghanistan is essential.

We learned a lot from the Bush administration's revised strategy for 
Iraq that put that war on a path to success. It would be a shame if we 
did not apply those hard-learned lessons to the current conflict in 
Afghanistan.

As I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks, this is a large bill--
larger than it had to be. The use of this Defense appropriations 
measure as a political football is why it is so big. I think it is a 
shame that the majority chose to legislate in this manner.

We did not need to do it this way. It is probably too late in this 
process for us to fix this mash-up of different bills and give all of 
these issues the individual attention that they deserve. However, 
hopefully, next year will be different. Hopefully, the majority will 
not try to once again politicize the bill that is supposed to be about 
funding our military. Hopefully, they will not hold this bill back and 
wait until the last minute like they did this year. It is the 
responsibility of the majority to set the schedule of the Senate.

We will see this time next year if they are still devoted to playing 
politics with the funding of our troops. I sincerely hope they are not.

I yield the floor.