# REMEMBERING SENATOR VANCE HARTKE
## `5d0de74c984713f99b43913d3c8bcf0b`
`Mr. KERRY â€” 5 June 2008`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, it is a privilege today to submit to the 
Record an essay by Jan Hartke, my friend and the son of our late 
colleague, Senator Vance Hartke of Indiana.

William Butler Yeats famously wrote: ''my glory was I had such 
friends.'' To know Vance Hartke as a cherished friend, as an ally to 
all who are not just unashamed but actually proud to seek peace, as a 
fellow Navy man, and particularly as a mentor, protector, and champion 
for those of us who returned from Vietnam to oppose the war--really, 
that was all the glory or honor any of us ever really need or deserve.

Vance's passing hit me like a punch to the gut; I was driving in New 
Hampshire in July of that long hot summer of 2003, in the middle of a 
Presidential campaign, when the jarring news came to me--and brought 
back memories of my earliest years as an antiwar activist, and of a 
public servant who shared our cause and our concerns. Then and 
throughout his life, Vance was compelling in the absolute sincerity of 
his character. He was spurred to soul-searching by America's disastrous 
intervention in Vietnam. He found himself asking, as many now ask of 
Iraq, not just ''How do we end this war?'' but ''How do we learn from 
our mistakes and end the mindset that got us into war?''

It was a profound moral compass that led Senator Hartke to work with 
Senators Mark Hatfield, Jennings Randolph, Sam Nunn, and Spark 
Matsunaga on legislation to found the U.S. Institute of Peace, whose 
continued work studying conflict and building understanding has become 
a testament to the nobility of Vance's aspirations and the life he 
lived in support of them.

With the groundbreaking of a beautiful new building, the organization 
built to house Senator Hartke's ideas finally has a home worthy of its 
founder.

Here, for the Senate Record, is a powerful essay--which captures 
Vance's vision as only his son could--in honor of this historic event.

I ask unanimous consent to have the essay to which I referred printed 
in the Record.