# RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AS AN  INDEPENDENT MILITARY SERVICE
## `5d3511ab473469d730a444367609df08`
`Mr. LINDER â€” 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, today, I want to pay tribute to the United 
States Air Force, on the occasion of its sixtieth anniversary. This 
special day provides us with an important opportunity to recognize and 
honor the men and women who have made our Nation's Air Force the 
greatest air power in the world. As a former Captain in the U.S. Air 
Force myself, I shared a willingness to protect and defend the United 
States of America with all my fellow airmen and airwomen.

On September 18, 1947, the National Security Act of 1947 was enacted, 
and the U.S. Air Force was officially formed. Although it is the newest 
unit of the four military branches, the U.S. Air Force has rapidly 
evolved into a segment of our armed services that embodies the 
fundamental core values and aptitude of our Nation's military 
foundation.

In the fifth century B.C., Chinese military theorist Sun Tzu said 
that the ''The art of employing troops is that when the enemy occupies 
high ground, do not confront him.'' Drawing on the teachings of Sun Tzu 
and nineteenth century military historian and theorist Carl von 
Clausewitz, military leaders over the past 200 years have sought to 
perfect their craft in warfare. Until the 20th century, however, the 
might of a country's military forces was still incomplete. While 
nation-states throughout the world had successfully developed their 
ground and sea forces, it was not until the advent of aircraft that the 
nature of warfare would be altered dramatically and permanently, thus 
finally permitting our armed services to confront the enemy on high 
ground.

Still, it took time to develop the technology and practice of air 
power so that it matched its theoretical potential. Even though the 
technology for capable air power existed for the U.S. Air Force during 
the Vietnam and Korean wars, the United States had not developed the 
capability of air power thoroughly enough to derive full benefit from 
its use until the Gulf War.

Retired U.S. Air Force Colonel John Warden, the initial architect of 
the gulf war's air campaign, ''Instant Thunder,'' once theorized that 
the most important effect that air power would have in war would be its 
ability to destabilize the will and morale of the enemy's military 
leadership. The use of American air power in the gulf war and Operation 
Iraqi Freedom successfully proved Colonel Warden's theory true.

The U.S. Air Force is unmatched in its technological prowess, 
providing air and space superiority on demand, and playing an important 
role in America's nuclear deterrence. The U.S. Air Force is 
revolutionary in that it is an expeditionary air force: It gets our 
ground forces to the fight, and gets our air power in the fight. Our 
Nation's Air Force has essentially provided our ground and naval forces 
with the tools necessary to successfully fight asymmetrical warfare by 
turning the landscape into a symmetrical one.


The Great Narrative of the next 25 years will be the contest between 
globalization and parochialism. As communications and technology 
continue to flatten the world, the connected first-world nations will 
benefit and their vested interest in the global order's continued 
smooth functioning will encourage political stability and economic 
development. Those nations left behind will see globalization as a 
hostile force and may fight against it. It is those same countries that 
also tend to serve as fertile breeding grounds for radical ideologies. 
The challenge ahead lies in folding these countries into the new global 
order.

The battle we face today in the global war on terror is the same 
battle we will face tomorrow, and it is a war we will continue to fight 
throughout our lifetime. In some ways, this war is not unlike the cold 
war between the U.S. and the Soviet Union; a monumental surgical strike 
will not immediately and forever decimate the enemy. This war will take 
time, and will require the prolonged use of a clear, inclusive, and 
engaging national military strategy.

Currently, our armed services continue to focus on ''muddy boots'' 
requirements in Iraq and Afghanistan. We must remember that this would 
not be possible without the work of our Nation's Air force. In the 
initial stages of Operation Iraqi Freedom, the U.S. Air Force paved the 
way for our men and women on the ground so that they could conduct 
military to-military training, counter-drug, counter-terrorist, and 
homeland defense missions in Operation Enduring Freedom.

It is my hope that as we celebrate the sixtieth birthday of the 
United States Air Force, we will be reminded of the tremendous 
sacrifices that our Air Force personnel and their families have made 
throughout the history of air power so that we may all continue to 
enjoy and pursue the opportunities afforded us by their significant 
role in protecting our democratic values. We must encourage innovation 
in the field, and I will do my part to ensure that our Air Force will 
be ready to meet the future with the tools they need to capitalize on 
new technologies, to maximize transport of equipment and military 
personnel, and to provide our boots on the ground with the landscape 
necessary to continue to deter, prevent, and punish acts of terrorism 
and piracy in the U.S. and around the world.