# None
## `5d4e18bd4b25a380c156deaccdfbccbe`
`Mr. KERRY â€” 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Feingold amendment 
because the strategy it mandates gives us the best chance to succeed in 
Iraq and strengthen America's security around the world. In fact, 
recent developments in Iraq and Afghanistan have made it clear that 
this amendment is as important now as it was when Senator Feingold and 
I first introduced a similar measure a year and half ago.

I have heard the arguments that the escalation has worked, that we no 
longer need to change the mission, and that we are now on the path to 
victory in Iraq. Every one of us agrees that the troops in Iraq have 
done an extraordinary job under unbelievably difficult circumstances. 
The entire country owes them a profound debt of gratitude for their 
incredible sacrifices.

But we must not lose sight of the bigger picture, which is that the 
brave men and women of our armed forces no matter how heroically they 
perform cannot end an Iraqi civil war. Every one of our generals, the 
Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of State have all told us 
repeatedly that there is simply no military solution to this conflict. 
The President himself has acknowledged as much and that is why he made 
clear that the purpose of the escalation was to give the Iraqis one 
last opportunity to make the tough political compromises that are the 
only hope for bringing lasting stability to Iraq.

But the bottom line is that we have not seen any political progress 
from the Maliki government since the escalation began nearly one year 
ago. Not one single additional political benchmark has been met and by 
some accounts they are even further away from compromising than they 
have ever been. So when we assess progress in Iraq over the past few 
months, let's be clear: by the measure that ultimately counts the most 
political reconciliation this strategy has not accomplished the goal 
that the President himself established.

The reason is simple: the Iraqi government has proven time and again 
that without a deadline they will not make the tough compromises 
necessary to bring about a political solution that is the only 
solution. And as long as we continue to follow the same course of 
giving them an open-ended commitment, they will continue to pursue 
their narrow sectarian interests while our troops continue to pay the 
ultimate price.

To succeed over the long term in Iraq, we must change course. We must 
insist on a strategy that honors what our troops have accomplished and 
force the Iraqis to finally take advantage of the opportunity they have 
before them. That's what the Feingold amendment does. It changes the 
mission to one that can be sustained even as we draw down troops to 
pre-surge levels which our overstretched military requires us to do: 
training Iraqi security forces, conducting targeted counter-terrorism 
missions, and protecting U.S. forces and facilities. And most 
importantly, it sets the deadline we need to create the leverage 
necessary to bring about real political reconciliation.

In fact, if you look closely at what has occurred over the past few 
months in Iraq, it is clear that a significant amount of the progress 
we have seen in terms of reducing violence has been the result of 
political decisions. That's not to understate the key role our troops 
have played it's simply to recognize the realities of this type of 
counterinsurgency mission.

We all know that the Sunni tribal leaders in Anbar province made a 
calculated decision, based on their own self-interest, to turn against 
al-Qaida in fact, many of us have argued for some time the Iraqis 
themselves would never tolerate foreign extremists in their midst.

We also know that one of the key factors in reducing the violence has 
been the decision by Moktada al-Sadr to tell his Mahdi militia to stand 
down--at least temporarily. This was reportedly due, at least in part, 
to a request Prime Minister Maliki made of Iran in August to help rein 
in the Shia militias. In fact, according to the New York Times, 
spokesmen for our own military ''have gone out of their way to publicly 
acknowledge Iran's role in helping to slow the flow of weapons into the 
country.''

And finally, we know that the flow of foreign fighters into Iraq from 
Syria has diminished considerably at a time when we have finally begun 
some level of diplomatic engagement with Syria.

So we must learn the right lessons from the positive developments we 
have seen over the last few months and recognize that the way forward, 
the best chance for lasting progress, is through political and 
diplomatic efforts. We must act now to take advantage of the window our 
troops have provided. I applaud the summits that have been held on Iraq 
in Sharm el Sheikh and Istanbul, but we need to see much more 
sustained, hands-on engagement at the highest levels of the 
administration. And we need a deadline to fundamentally change the 
dynamic for Iraq's political leaders.

The alternative is to continue giving the President a blank check 
which is exactly what the McConnell amendment does. There's no 
requirement to transition the mission, and no deadline to leverage 
political process. And there's no relief for a military stretched to 
the breaking point. That will not resolve the sectarian divisions that 
have fed this civil war, it will not bring longterm stability to Iraq, 
and it will not protect our national security interests around the 
world.

Nowhere is that more important than in Afghanistan, where the same 
killers who attacked us on 9/11 are right where we left them, plotting 
more attacks on our homeland. The simple fact is that because of the 
attention, energy, and resources we have devoted to Iraq, we're now in 
danger of losing Afghanistan. The Taliban and al-Qaida have regrouped 
along the Afghan-Pakistan border, currently hold large swathes of 
territory, and are expanding their reach into regions that haven't seen 
the Taliban since 2001. Violence may be down in Iraq, but it's at its 
highest levels in Afghanistan since the invasion. Opium cultivation has 
soared to 93 percent of the world's market. Reconstruction efforts have 
stalled, and Oxfam International is reporting ''humanitarian conditions 
rarely seen outside sub-Saharan Africa.''

That is why Secretary Gates and Admiral Mullen called for more 
troops, equipment, and a strategic plan to get it right in Afghanistan 
last week. But because we have expended valuable American blood and 
treasure in Iraq and allowed our focus to wander from our top national 
security priority, the resources just aren't there to fight Taliban and 
al-Qaida in Afghanistan. If we change the mission in Iraq and return 
our focus to Afghanistan, we still have time to achieve the stable 
democracy we promised.

But we must act now. In Iraq and in Afghanistan, time is not on our 
side. We must seize this moment to put America on course to a safer and 
more secure future.