# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `5d5e0ff5bc02c79e85295162074cd78a`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, the bill on the floor of the Senate is 
the Defense authorization bill. It has much to do about the security of 
this country, talking about ''defense.'' Tomorrow will be the seventh 
anniversary of the attacks on September 11, 2001.

I was sitting here thinking that on that morning at 9 o'clock, I was 
part a regular Tuesday morning meeting of the Democratic leadership 
here in the Capitol Building. We saw on television what happened to the 
trade towers in New York. We heard the television reports, and then we 
saw the plume of smoke come from the Pentagon. Then someone from 
security rushed into the room and indicated they felt there was an 
incoming plane to strike the Capitol Building, and we were very quickly 
evacuated. That was 7 years ago tomorrow.

Standing in the beautiful morning sun that day looking up into the 
sky and seeing F-16 fighter planes flying air cover over the Capitol of 
the United States was a pretty remarkable sight, knowing our country 
had been attacked. Then in very short order we discovered who attacked 
our country that day, who attacked the World Trade Towers, who attacked 
the Pentagon, who brought down the plane in Pennsylvania. We discovered 
it was a group called al-Qaida and a leader named Osama bin Laden who 
not only plotted the attack but boasted and took credit for the attack. 
That was 7 years ago tomorrow.

Because we are talking about national security in the Defense 
authorization bill, I wanted to call my colleagues' attention to the 
fact that on August 12, 2008, a speech was given here in Washington, 
DC, by the National Intelligence Officer for Transnational Threats. He 
addressed the Washington Institute Special Policy Forum. What he said 
in many ways tracks with what we heard last summer from the National 
Intelligence Estimate.

Let me put up a chart with some words from the National Intelligence 
Estimate because it is relevant to what we are talking about here on 
the Defense authorization bill, that is, defending our country, keeping 
America free. Here is what last year's July 2007 National Intelligence 
Estimate says. This is the declassified version of what had previously 
been and what was a classified intelligence estimate:




 Al-Qaida is and will remain the most serious terrorist 


 threat to the homeland . . . we assess the group has 


 protected or regenerated key elements of its homeland attack 


 capability, including: A safe haven in the Pakistan Federally 


 Administered Tribal Areas, operational lieutenants, and its 


 top leadership.


Think of that. In July 2007, 6 years after America was attacked by 
Osama bin Laden, and our National Intelligence Estimate was telling us 
that organization has regenerated its leadership, has developed new 
training camps, has, in fact, a secure hideaway. This says ''safe 
haven.'' Can you imagine? Now it is 7 years after the attack, and our 
intelligence community still says those who boasted of murdering 
thousands of innocent Americans have a ''safe haven.'' There ought not 
be an acre of ground on this planet that is safe for those who murdered 
those innocent Americans 7 years ago tomorrow.


Let me read what was said by Mr. Ted Gistaro, who is the National 
Intelligence Officer for Transnational Threats. Here is what he said in 
August:




 Al-Qaida remains the most serious terrorist threat to the 


 United States. We assess that al-Qaida's intent to attack the 


 U.S. homeland remains undiminished. Attack planning 


 continues. In spite of successful U.S.-allied operations 


 against al-Qaida, the group has maintained or strengthened 


 key elements of its capability to attack the United States in 


 the past year.


This from our intelligence community.

Finally:




 Al-Qaida has replenished its bench of skilled midlevel 


 lieutenants capable of directing global operations. It now 


 has many of the operational and organizational advantages it 


 once enjoyed across the border in Afghanistan. Al-Qaida is 


 identifying, training, and positioning operatives for attacks 


 in the west, likely including in the United States.


All of this from top intelligence officials in our country. Seven 
years after we were attacked by those who boasted about engineering and 
planning the attack to murder innocent Americans, those who have 
promised to do it again, we are told by our national intelligence folks 
that they have regenerated their capability, they have resurrected 
their training camps, they are recruiting new recruits to al-Qaida, and 
that the most significant threat to the United States is al-Qaida, the 
most serious terrorist threat to our homeland.

Now, I don't understand. We are, of course, bogged down in a lengthy 
war in the country of Iraq. Iraq did not attack our country on 9/11/
2001; al-Qaida did. We are bogged down in a war in Iraq. We see 
Afghanistan slipping through our fingers with the resurrection of the 
Taliban. And even more important, we are told that the most serious 
threat to our country--we are told by intelligence estimates--is al-
Qaida, which is growing in strength. So here we go again.

In August of 2001, the Presidential daily brief said that Osama bin 
Laden wanted to:




 Bring the fight to America; wanted to conduct terrorist 


 attacks in the U.S.; wanted to retaliate in Washington; 


 wanted to hijack a U.S. aircraft.


The August 2001 intelligence briefing to President Bush talked of 
''Patterns of suspicious activity in this country consistent with 
preparations for hijackings or other types of attack.'' It said that 
''The FBI is conducting approximately 70 full field investigations 
throughout the United States that it considers bin Laden related.''

That was August of 2001. Seven years later, the greatest threat to 
our country is al-Qaida and its leadership. That is unbelievable to me. 
And we see, beginning last year--and I have shown my colleagues this 
before--beginning last year, September 11:




 Al-Qaida's Return. The Terrorists Have a Sanctuary Once 


 Again.


October 3 last year:




 Pakistan seen losing the fight against the Taliban and al-


 Qaida. Military officials say the insurgents have enhanced 


 their ability to threaten not only Pakistan, but the United 


 States and Europe as well.


The same article says:




 Pakistan's government is losing its war against emboldened 


 and insurgent forces, giving al-Qaida and the Taliban more 


 territory in which to operate and allowing the groups to plot 


 increasingly ambitious attacks.


CIA Director Hayden, on ''Meet the Press'' this year, just months 
ago, said this:




 It is very clear to us that al-Qaida has been able, over 


 the past 18 months or so, to establish a safe haven along the 


 Afghanistan-Pakistan border area that they have not enjoyed 


 before; that they are bringing operatives into that region 


 for training.


I have flown over that area in an airplane. You can't see a border. I 
understand you can't distinguish between Afghanistan and Pakistan. You 
look down and see mountains and you see rugged terrain. You don't see 
any kind of border. I understand how difficult it might be to deal with 
al-Qaida in that region. What I don't understand is why it has not been 
the singular priority of our country to bring to justice those who 
planned the attacks against our country on 9/11/2001. And if someone 
says it has been a priority, show me the evidence. Seven years later 
and we have ''safe havens'' or ''secure areas,'' both terms used by our 
intelligence to describe areas of the ground on this planet where it is 
safe and secure for al-Qaida to recruit new soldiers, to train new 
soldiers, to plan new attacks against our country. That is 
unbelievable.

In my judgment, it must be a priority for us to deal with the most 
serious threat to our homeland. That is


not my assessment, that is the assessment of the CIA Director and it is 
the assessment of the National Intelligence Estimate. That simply must 
be a priority.

In August 2001 the intelligence community said ''Bin Laden is 
determined to strike U.S.'' That is what we knew. That is what U.S. 
leaders we were told in the intelligence briefings. In July 2007 the 
intelligence community told us: ''Al-Qaida better positioned to strike 
the west.'' One would have hoped, with the hundreds and hundreds of 
billions of dollars we have spent in defense of this country and in 
this country's national security interests, that one of the major 
priorities would have been to bring to justice those who plotted the 
attack of 9/11/2001. Regrettably, that has not been the case.

I hope very much, as we pass this legislation, that things will 
change. We have very big challenges. A terrorist threat exists. It is 
serious. It is relentless. It seems to me we will best be served not by 
moving--as we have now for 5 years--our money, our effort, our 
treasury, and the lives of our soldiers to continue the war in Iraq 
but, rather, by addressing the worsening condition in Afghanistan and 
addressing the question of why we have not brought to justice Osama bin 
Laden and the al-Qaida leadership that is in a safe or secure sanctuary 
in the Pakistan border area.

Now, Madam President, this country has a lot at stake, and the fight 
against terrorism is a real fight. We have made a lot of very serious 
mistakes in the last years. Mistakes aren't Republican or Democratic, 
they are just mistakes our country has made. We are bogged down in a 
long, difficult war in Iraq. We have spent $20 billion training Iraqi 
soldiers and police forces. We have trained half a million people in 
the country of Iraq. We have spent $20 billion doing it. We have spent 
two-thirds of a trillion dollars in that war, and yet we are told we 
must remain in Iraq because the Iraqi people aren't capable of 
providing for their own security. We have trained half a million of 
them. If able-bodied Iraqis don't have the will to provide for security 
in Iraq, this country can't do that forever. It is their country, not 
ours. It is their responsibility, not ours.

This country was diverted to Iraq when, in fact, this country should 
have been in a position where, 7 years after the 9/11 attack of 2001, 
we wouldn't be describing Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida as the greatest 
threat to the homeland. But that is what has happened. We can't change 
what has happened, but it seems to me what we can change is what we are 
determined to do about it in the future.

It is my hope, as we discuss in some detail our national security and 
defense, the authorization of Defense expenditures, that we will decide 
this is not Osama bin Forgotten; this is Osama bin Laden, who threatens 
this country, who is the most significant threat to our homeland, and 
who is resurrecting training camps and recruiting new soldiers for al-
Qaida. It is our responsibility as a country to address that and to 
address it now.

Madam President, I yield the floor.

The Senator from Florida.












Department of Interior IG Report
