# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `5d9c8c4bbe5ec1c8b009fe6e21ed4f5c`
`Mr. BIDEN â€” 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. I will be happy to respond because my friend, as usual, 
gets to the crux of the issue.

Here is the way I look at it. I will try to break these things out. 
My friend Senator Lugar, whom I think is the most informed man in the 
Congress on foreign policy, is used to my colloquial ways of expressing 
things so he will probably understand me better than most because he 
had to deal with me for 30 years-plus. I try to devolve this, to use a 
Washington word, into sort of big chunks. You basically have two 
options here.

No. 1, do you continue with a policy that was well intended by our 
Government, the President, the administration, of attempting to 
establish a strong central democratic government in Baghdad that in 
fact has the capacity to gain the faith and trust of the Sunni, Shia, 
and Kurds so that they will entrust to that central government their 
well-being, in terms of security, in terms of economic growth, and in 
terms of political reconciliation or do you have to reach a point that 
I have reached, and reached some time ago, of recognizing that is a 
bridge too far; that the only way in which you will be able to stop the 
warring factions from killing each other is essentially give them some 
breathing room under their federal Constitution which says--I am 
quoting from their Constitution: The Republic of Iraq is a single, 
independent, federal state.

What I look back to, I say to my friend from Virginia, is this can't 
be


built up from the village up. I acknowledge the requirement that the 
leaders of the Sunnis and the Shia and the Kurds--and there are 
multiple claimants to that leadership; I know my friend knows that--
those claimants have to conclude their self-interest is better realized 
in a federal system. The Kurds have clearly recognized that. The Kurds 
made it clear when Senator Hagel and I got smuggled into Irbil, back 
before the war began, that they weren't in on any deal that wasn't a 
federal system giving them pretty significant autonomy.

The Shia have now reached that conclusion themselves, with notable 
exceptions--Sadr being one of them. But, for example, the Vice 
President--the Shia Vice President of the, for lack of a phrase I will 
call the central government the existing government--is totally 
supportive of what I am proposing and he said so publicly and said so 
at this conference in Ramadi which I attended a few weeks ago.

The Sunnis up to now have been the odd folks out because they look at 
it, as my friend clearly knows, and they say: Look, we live in this 
place called Anbar Province, the majority of us. We don't have much out 
here but rock and shale. There is not much else out here. All the oil 
is in the north and all the oil is in the south and if you have 
regional governments and the oil is controlled by the north and the 
south, we don't get anything.

But here is what has happened. There is a bit of, as we Catholics 
say, an epiphany occurring. I will tell my friend in confidence who it 
is but I don't want to publicly--he is an Iraqi leader who is one of 
the leading Sunni leaders in the country, who used the following quote 
with me in the 4 hours we were together in Ramadi.

He said--I am paraphrasing the first part--I initially disagreed with 
your plan. Now I am quoting.




 There has been a struggle I have had between my heart and 


 my head. My heart has told me up to now that we Sunnis could 


 play a major role in governing this country again, from the 


 center. My head tells me that will not happen anytime soon 


 and our fate lies in a regional system. But we need access to 


 resources.


He said:




 But don't quote me yet, Senator, because I have to work on 


 my fellow tribal leaders out here, and others.


Look what is happening with the Turks. The Turks initially were 
absolutely opposed to this. But as they have begun to figure it out, 
they realize that if we continue on the path we are on, American 
patience with keeping the cork in the bottle is not going to be 
sustained for the next 2 years and that when we leave, absent a 
political settlement, there will be not a splitting of Iraq into three 
parts, there will be a fracture of Iraq into multiple parts. But guess 
what they figured out. Kurdistan will become a de facto independent 
country. They will be able to say in Kurdistan: Hey, we didn't do this. 
There was nobody to deal with. And they have all of a sudden begun to 
understand that it is bad enough, from the Turkish standpoint to have a 
quasi-independent--and it is not even that--region called Kurdistan, 
within defined borders of a country called Iraq; it is a very different 
thing to have a quasi-independent Kurdistan, when you have 4 million 
Kurds sitting in their eastern mountains.

So all of a sudden they are figuring this out. ''Figuring out'' 
sounds derogatory, and I do not mean it that way. They are looking at 
their alternatives and saying: OK, a federal system in an Iraq that is 
united is a whole lot better than a de facto independent state.

The Iranians. The Iranians have a dilemma. The Iranians have at least 
five major militia forces among the Shia of Iraq. Some they like, some 
they do not like. As my friend from Indiana knows, you have a group 
down around Basra, as the British are pulling out, who are organized 
pretty well.

As the British two-star said to me: They are like Mafia dons waiting 
for us to leave to see who claims the territory--who actually argued 
that Basra should be an independent country because they have access to 
the gulf, they have oil, and they have four provinces they can put 
together.

Well, guess what. That is not very well regarded by the Badr Brigade, 
folks, and Sadr is going: Whoa, whoa, wait a minute.

So this creates a dilemma. The splintering of Iraq creates a dilemma 
for even the Iranians who do not want to do us any favors at all. The 
generic point I am making is, as time has passed, and I will use Bosnia 
as an example, when we first started off talking about what, in 
essence, became of the Dayton Peace Accords, you did not have any 
takers. And it only got to the point where you had the Croats and the 
Serbs concluding they could not dominate. They could not control 
Bosnia-Herzegovina.

That is when they all began to think, you know, the blood and 
treasure that was--exceedingly what has happened, once they got to the 
point where they realized the gun was not going to get their solution, 
they became, very reluctantly, but they became much more acclimated to 
the notion of what the Dayton Peace Accords did.

The bottom line is, asking me that question a year ago, I would not 
have said to you that internally the leaders among the Shia, the Kurds, 
and the Sunnis will be more inclined to accept this, but they are 
because reality has set in. The Kurds have figured out they cannot and 
do not want to be totally independent because the Turks will take them 
out.

The Shia have figured out, generically, the leadership, that they may 
have 62 percent of the population or thereabouts and control the 
political apparatus, but they cannot stop their mosques from being 
blown up. They cannot physically control the country. And the Sunnis 
have figured out that they are not going to run the country again in 
the near term. So it is a little bit like coming face to face with the 
reality of one circumstance.

As I said at the outset to my friend, a lot of this relates to people 
arriving at this conclusion, even in Iraq, by default. The Sunnis would 
much rather dominate the country again. The Shia would much rather keep 
the Sunnis out, as Maliki in his heart would like to do, but he cannot 
because he cannot control them.

The Kurds would love to be independent totally but for the fact that 
they understand it may be their very demise. So reality is sinking in. 
The larger point, I say to my friend from Virginia is this: The dilemma 
I hear, and I hear it from my Democratic colleagues, I imagine I will 
hear it from some of my Republican colleagues, and it is legitimate. 
They say: Biden, we cannot force a political solution any more than we 
can force a military solution.

Well, I would argue that it is true we have lost our credibility to 
be able to do what I believe we could have done 5 years ago or 4 years 
ago. But that is why part of this amendment calls for 
internationalizing the political solution.

I know my friend from Indiana believes, whether it is the same 
objective, that there is an overwhelming necessity to engage major 
powers in the world, to engage regional powers so that, as he says, 
there are fora; every single day they are sitting down rubbing 
shoulders trying to figure out an accommodation.

It cannot be done in the abstract. It cannot be done by President 
Lugar sitting in the White House dealing with Maliki sitting in 
Baghdad. It cannot be done by bringing in the regional players in Sharm 
El Sheikh, with us convening it and thinking that will get it done. It 
requires something heavier, deeper, more substantial because one of the 
things that will get people's attention, that will get the attention of 
the Sunni leaders and Shia leaders and Kurdish leaders, the 
international community led by the major five powers, is if the 
Security Council says: Hey, look, we are gathering up the team--Iran, 
Turkey, Saudi Arabia, et cetera, et cetera--and here is what we think 
your constitution says, and this is what we are prepared to support.

What that does, that not only has implied sticks, it has significant 
carrots. Significant carrots. That organizational structure can say: 
We, from the outset, will be the guarantors that none of the regional 
powers will conclude they must be involved militarily or in a 
disruptive fashion because the truth is, what I try to do is think of 
myself as, OK, I am a real bad guy, Iranian leader who hates the United 
States.

What benefits me the most? What benefits me the most is occupying 10 
of our 12 divisions in Iraq posing no


threat to them, seeing American blood and treasure spilled. But what I 
do not want to see is America, notwithstanding all of the bravado of 
Ahmadinejad, that: We will fill the vacuum; we, the Iranians, will fill 
the vacuum. That is not a vacuum they are looking to fill. If they 
could fill it, they would. But their ability to fill that vacuum is 
marginal at best. Their influence is degraded when there is continuing 
sectarian violence. It diminishes in the context of an international 
settlement.

So the truth is, it requires the national leadership to agree on a 
regional solution. A national leadership will be unable, in the 
lifetime of any one of us on this floor, to agree to a 
central solution; a unity government from the capital city of Baghdad, 
having military and police authority over the entire country.


Can anyone imagine the possibility, even the possibility, that you 
will see a Shia-dominated police force patrolling in Fallujah? As the 
old joke goes, raise your hand if there is a remote possibility of 
that.

Already you cannot send into what is now Kurdistan, three 
governments, you are not even allowed to fly the Iraqi flag without 
permission. You cannot send the Iraqi Army there without their 
permission. You cannot send any national police force there without 
their permission.

So what makes us think there is anything--let me make an analogy for 
you. When Washington accepted the surrender documents signed by 
Cornwallis at the end of our Revolutionary War, I say to my friends 
from Virginia and Massachusetts, what chance do you think there would 
have been if we had to vote within 6 months on the Constitution that 
was ratified in Philadelphia?

Do you think Massachusetts and Virginia would be in the same country? 
I respectfully suggest, from a historical standpoint, you would not be. 
So what did we do? We did what I am proposing. You essentially set up 
Articles of Confederation.

You said: We are going to let Massachusetts and Delaware, the first 
State, Massachusetts, and Delaware and New Jersey and Virginia, have 
considerable autonomy. There was no President. There was a Continental 
Congress, a decentralized federal system.

It took us 13 years to get to our Philadelphia moment. Wherein does 
the arrogance emanate from that we think by putting 160,000 troops in 
Iraq, we can, over a 4-year period, in a country that was made by the 
stroke of a diplomat's pen, where France and Britain divided up the 
spoils of the Ottoman Empire, what makes us think that we can expect 
them to do something that we were unable to do? So, folks, this is 
pretty basic stuff. I know everybody knows that. I am beginning to 
sound like I am lecturing. I do not mean to do that. This is pretty 
simplistic in a sense; it is not rocket science.