# None
## `5da1d203f682b02c76ecfb48a167882e`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR â€” 26 February 2008`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, the administration did not anticipate 
the cost for our troops. The war has already cost over $490 billion, 
$1.5 trillion when you factor in all costs, $12 billion a month. They 
did not anticipate what was going on with this economy. They did not 
respond the way they were supposed to to the mortgage crisis. They did 
not anticipate. They listened to their friends in the special interest 
groups, and look where we are now. Look where we are now.

Two weeks ago we passed a short-term stimulus package that will help 
change the economic direction of this country by putting money in the 
hands of American families, including our seniors and our veterans. 
This action was a start. But today we must begin focusing on the long-
term policies to spur economic growth long after the rebate checks are 
spent. We have to get this economy on the right track, and it means 
making a reckoning for that money that is spent in Iraq, to start 
bringing home some of our combat troops, to start being more 
responsible about this budget.

Today we announced our next step, which is to look at this mortgage 
crisis, really the crisis that I say fundamentally puts us where we are 
right now. Mr. President, 8.8 million families across the United States 
are underwater. They owe more to lenders than they have equity in their 
home, giving them limited or no options for refinancing.

The Foreclosure Prevention Act, which I am going to talk about later, 
and I hope will come to the floor this week, signifies a major step in 
the right direction, curbing the disastrous effect the foreclosure 
crisis has had on our families and our economy. The time to act is now.

We also need long-term economic policies that will encourage 
sustainable economic growth in every corner of this country. From the 
impact of the mortgage crisis and the value of homes, to the 
skyrocketing cost of oil that fuels cars, trucks, and heats homes, to 
rising prices in the grocery stores, the middle class is being squeezed 
from every side.

Back in January, I traveled around my State. I visited towns all the 
way from Worthington up to Halleck, MN. You haven't been anywhere, Mr. 
President, unless you visited Embarrass, MN, in the middle of January. 
It is always one of the coldest places in our country. We were all over 
our State. People are concerned. They are Minnesotans so they try to be 
optimistic, especially when it is January. They try to look to the 
future. They look at the potential with this energy revolution. But 
they would come out to cafes, come out to college campuses and talk 
about how it is getting harder and harder for them to send their kids 
to college, to afford health care, and to fill their cars up with gas.

To give a sense of what we are looking at in our State--and our State 
has always had a diverse economy; we are eighth in the country for 
Fortune 500 companies--the unemployment rate for Minnesota recently 
jumped to 4.9 percent, up from 4.4 percent the month before. Our State 
has lost 23,000 jobs in the last 6 months alone. Home heating prices 
for Minnesota families have also risen by 14.1 percent per household in 
the past year alone.

On the foreclosure front, the statistics in Minnesota are equally 
devastating. At the end of 2007, over 50,000 families in Minnesota were 
delinquent on their home payments. It is estimated that 30,000 will 
lose their homes in the next several years if something is not done.

What are these families like? They are like the Gray family in 
Minnesota with whom I met. They are both teaching. They were all 
excited to buy their new house. They got a mortgage approved, a 
standard mortgage. It turned out the home values were much higher, and 
they were not able to afford a home. So they went to someone they 
thought they could trust and got one of these adjustable rate 
mortgages. They were told a lower rate at the beginning, $1,500, and it 
might go up a few hundred dollars. By 2008, it was up to $3,300 a month 
from $1,500 a month. We know that is not the rate of inflation. We know 
it is not the right thing to happen.

I use that as one example of what we are seeing across this country 
and why this administration has its priorities messed up and why people 
such as the Grays, good people who are just trying to have a home for 
their family, have found themselves in the middle of this mess. It is 
where Wall Street has hit Main Street. It is where the Bush 
administration's priorities to spend $12 billion a month have hit 
people like the Grays right in their homes.

The cost of foreclosures is not limited to these families. If 
something is not done, Minnesotans will lose an estimated $1.6 billion 
in declining home values. That is because the chickens have come home 
to roost. When it comes to this mortgage crisis, it is not just one 
family, one foreclosure. It affects real estate values on an entire 
street, an entire neighborhood, an entire community.

We need an economy that creates stable middle-class jobs. We need 
infrastructure investments so we don't have bridges falling, as we did 
in our State, right in the middle of America. We need energy 
investments that will reduce our dependency on foreign oil and create 
good ''green collar'' jobs in the growing clean alternative energy 
sector of our economy.


The people we serve are asking for a new direction, a government that 
spends their money wisely, that represents their values, that works for 
American families. America wants a Washington that is going to offer 
new priorities and new solutions.

Last year, our Congress succeeded in a downpayment on change. It was 
a beginning. We were hampered by procedural rules and all these 
filibusters, but we moved this country. There is so much more to do. We 
moved, first of all, to a more responsible budget process. We gave 
working Americans an increase in the minimum wage. We provided greater 
financial aid to help their kids go to college. And we passed a new 
energy bill that raises fuel efficiency


standards for the first time since I was in junior high.

But there is much more that needs to be done.

Senator Dorgan and I heard about it at an economic hearing we had in 
my State just last week where we met with a panel of economists and 
experts on energy policy and what was going on in our economy in 
Minnesota. One economist described our current condition as ''serious, 
unstable, and declining.'' In our State, families sense their stability 
is slipping, with 67 percent of middle-class Americans having an 
increased sense of anxiety about their futures.

Tom Stinson, Minnesota's chief economist, discussed the frightening 
unemployment statistics. We haven't added any new jobs over the past 
year, and we are not alone. States that have historically had lower 
unemployment rates are now creeping toward the national average.

Unfortunately, when we look at this problem we are facing, and we 
know there are solutions, we know there is a way to get this economy 
back on track and be fiscally responsible, but President Bush's new 
budget proposal falls far short of what America needs to address our 
economic downturn and invest in meaningful recovery effort.

This new budget request does not offer new priorities or now 
solutions. Instead, this budget continues a familiar pattern of 
misplaced priorities. It continues a 7-year pattern of fiscal 
irresponsibility: borrowing money and leaving an ever-larger debt to 
our children and grandchildren.

Look at this, the wall of debt we have seen and how quickly it has 
risen from 2001 to 2013. This administration took a $200 billion 
surplus and turned it into a $300 billion budget deficit. Do you know 
what it means to middle-class families? When I talk to people in our 
States about what all these millions and billions and trillions mean, 
it means that 1 out of 12 Federal tax dollars goes to pay interest on 
that debt. That money is not going to the United States. Most of that 
money is going to companies in foreign countries. That is what is 
happening to this country.

I was listening before to my colleague from Oklahoma talking about 
how we have to be willing to make these sacrifices and pay for things. 
I find this so ironic because it is people on our side of the aisle who 
have been willing to talk about rolling back some of the Bush tax cuts 
on people making over $200,000. Think how that money can go to pay off 
this debt, to go into infrastructure investment we have been talking 
about, to move this economy in the right direction. It is people over 
on our side of the aisle who have been talking about oil giveaways and 
putting them into renewable energies so we can start investing in 
farmers and workers in the Midwest instead of oil cartels in the 
Mideast.

How about the debate we had on the middle-class tax issue, on AMT tax 
relief? We were willing to talk about how we wanted to pay for it. We 
wanted to pay for it off those hedge fund operators, but they wouldn't 
go for it. It is this Congress that put the pay-as-you-go back.

When I talk to people in my State, they understand we need to have a 
short-term stimulus package, why we need it, and why economists 
believed it was a good idea. But when we go forward in the long term, 
we cannot keep going the way we are going with this wall of debt. We 
are not going to end up where we want to go. We are going to be right 
back where we were before we put the stimulus in place, and we need to 
make bold changes in this country.

In just 7 years, this administration took that budget surplus, $158 
billion--think of that money--and made it into a $400 billion deficit. 
So when we talk about this war in Iraq and when my esteemed colleague 
from South Carolina talks about it being priceless, it is not 
priceless. It is $12 billion a month.

Meanwhile, this new budget continues to neglect crucial investments 
that are needed to strengthen our economy and our Nation for the long 
term. It does not make the investments we need in our Nation's 
transportation infrastructure. It does not make the investments we need 
in developing renewable energy sources to move us toward greater energy 
independence and security. It does not make the investments we need to 
support the basic medical and scientific research that has always been 
a key driver of our country's innovation and growth.


I come from Minnesota, a State where we believe in science. We 
brought the world everything from the Post-It note to the pacemaker, 
and we believe this investment pays off not only in the health of our 
citizens but also for jobs and looking to the future and not letting 
other countries such as India, China, and other countries go ahead of 
us because we have failed in this country to have an investment 
strategy and put those Government policies in place that drives that 
investment.

Here are a few examples from my State of where the President's budget 
goes wrong.

Americans are struggling to lower home heating costs in any way they 
can. Nationwide, the average household is expected to pay 11 percent 
more for heating this winter compared to last year. Families who rely 
on home heating oil are facing record prices, 30 to 50 percent above 
last winter.

So what does the administration do in its budget? It cuts this 
funding. It ends the Department of Energy Weatherization Assistance 
Program. The Weatherization Assistance Program increases the energy 
efficiency of homes occupied by low-income Americans, directly reducing 
their energy costs. It cut it by 100 percent.

The funds appropriated in fiscal year 2008 for this program will 
enable upgrades for as many as 85,000 homes. With energy costs rising 
significantly and an economy poised on the brink of recession, the 
weatherization program and the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance 
Program are necessities, they are not luxuries.

Another example: Nearly 6/1/2/ years after the terrorist attacks of 
September 11, Americans are well aware of the need for State and local 
governments to be prepared as possible against future threats. I heard 
you talking, Mr. President, earlier this afternoon about the importance 
of putting that money into our own homeland security. So what does the 
administration do with this budget? It slashes funding for State and 
local first responders' efforts, cutting firefighter assistance grants 
from $1.2 billion to $300 million, and the State Homeland Security 
Grant Program from over $1 billion to $200 million, and, once again, it 
proposes to eliminate the cost of the COPS Program.

As a former prosecutor, I take this personally because I saw how that 
COPS Program worked, how it added police officers to our neighborhoods, 
how it brought down crime. Look at this: What is the comparison when we 
are looking at this budget as we are talking about priorities of the 
$12 billion a month on the war in Iraq? This is the amount the 
President would need to add to his budget to maintain this police 
program which puts police out in the neighborhoods at a 2008 level, 
plus inflation.

Personally, I would like to do more, especially in our rural areas. I 
think we need meth cops out there. Just to restore it to 2008 levels 
plus inflation would cost $596 million. What would you do if you just 
roll back the tax cuts for those making over $1 million in 2009? I am 
not talking about people making over $250,000; I am talking about 
people making over $1 million. What would you bring in with that? You 
would bring in $51 billion. Look at the comparison. Think about how 
many police you could buy on the streets. Think how much you could buy 
to help people afford their homes. Think of the benefits. Look at what 
you can do for $51 billion to help our veterans.

We have soldiers coming home from Iraq that just this summer in 
Minnesota were told: You are the longest serving unit, you Red Bulls 
from Minnesota, of the National Guard in Iraq. But guess what. Your 
paper only says 729 days. So guess what. You are not going to get your 
full education benefits, even though you served longer than 729 days.

Obviously, we took up this matter with General Shellito, head of our 
National Guard, took up this matter with the Army, and it is working to 
fix it. Oh, well, it saved some money to write that down as 729 
days. But think about $51 billion and what we could do with that. We 
are talking about priorities here.


Fiscal responsibility is also about making sure down the line that 
these


priorities are right. Do we want a budget that offers tax giveaways to 
the wealthiest or a budget that provides relief to middle-class 
families squeezed by rising costs for health care, housing, energy, 
college tuition, childcare and care for aging parents?

Do we want a budget that gives lucrative special favors to the giant 
oil and pharmaceutical companies, or a budget that invests in our 
future prosperity, such as research and development on renewable 
energy?

Do we want a budget that continues to spend $12 billion a month in 
Iraq or a budget that provides our veterans with the help they need; 
that makes sure we have the money we need to keep our troops there for 
the focused purpose of guarding our embassy and training police and 
having them there for special forces; and money for the COPS program--
that $596 million it would cost to restore that? That is about homeland 
security.

I want to see an administration that aims for fiscal responsibility 
by reversing or rolling back these tax cuts for the wealthiest 
Americans--people making over $200,000.

I want to see an administration that aims for fiscal responsibility 
by eliminating offshore tax havens for multimillionaires so people 
aren't hiding money in the Cayman Islands.

I want an administration that aims for fiscal responsibility by 
ending the tax breaks and giveaways that have been handed out year 
after year to the big oil companies.

I want to see an administration that aims for fiscal responsibility 
by allowing Medicare to negotiate for lower prices for prescription 
drugs for our seniors.

The President's budget does not provide the new priorities and the 
new solutions America needs. Instead, it continues to take us down the 
wrong path. This budget is only the most recent example of an 
administration that is putting its head in the sand and ignoring the 
reality of the looming economic recession.

As the housing market is crumbling, and millions of families are 
expected to lose their homes in the next couple of years, the 
administration seems to hope this problem will go away. This is why I 
have cosponsored the Mortgage Foreclosure Prevention Act, and I am 
committed to working with my Senate colleagues on a bipartisan basis to 
pass this bill to help keep our families in their homes and get the 
middle class back on their feet. Across the country, we are seeing 
families struggling to keep their homes. If something isn't done, over 
2 million families will lose that struggle in the next 2 years.

Through a pilot project conducted by the Federal Reserve Bank in 
Minneapolis, we have been able to track by ZIP Code all of the 
outstanding subprime mortgages in our State. This data is a startling 
reminder that we are seeing only the beginning of this crisis if we 
don't do anything about it. By being able to track the reset dates of 
all the subprime mortgages in Minnesota, the study shows thousands of 
mortgages resetting to higher interest rates monthly, causing more and 
more families to fall behind on their payments. Congress must act 
quickly if we are going to curb any effects of the housing crisis.

In my home county, where I was chief prosecutor of Hennepin County, 
we have seen an 82-percent increase in sheriff sales of foreclosed 
homes. The problem extends to greater Minnesota. We have seen the 
foreclosures double in some of our urban areas. We have seen 3 out of 
100 households--3 out of 100 households--that are in foreclosure.

Something must be done to help these families. I have met them. These 
are not just statistics and numbers; these are real families living in 
the State of Minnesota. This is why I believe we need to pass the 
Foreclosure Prevention Act and why I believe we need to reprioritize 
what is happening in this country--$12 billion a month in Iraq, with no 
end in sight, and some people saying we are going to stay there for 100 
years, while these families are losing their homes, while our veterans 
are still not getting a fair shake.

This bill, the Foreclosure Prevention Act, would give $200 million to 
families to counsel them in ways to avoid foreclosure. I will put that 
chart up again showing an example of these priorities. This is for 
people making over $1 million a year--people making over $1 million a 
year. Here is our $51 billion. Think of this mortgage counseling. It is 
a proven way to work here. It would be only $200 million.

Our State finance agencies are in a perfect position to help families 
refinance loans, but their hands have been tied by ceilings on the 
amount of State-backed mortgage bonds they can use. This bill makes it 
easier for them to help find families and rework their mortgages. That 
is what we are trying to do. It will not work for every one of these 
people. Some we don't want to help. They are not deserving of this. 
They maybe speculated on these mortgages to begin with. But many of 
these families I have personally met, including the family from Ohio we 
saw today here in the Senate. These are hard-working families who were 
maybe not told the truth about their mortgage or misled about their 
mortgage or the whole mortgage was set up to get them in trouble down 
the line, and the mortgage lender goes away and sells it to someone 
else, who sells it to someone else, who sells it to someone else, and 
pretty soon it doesn't just hurt that family, it hurts the entire 
street, and it hurts the entire neighborhood.

This is about getting our priorities right. Yes, it is about the war 
in Iraq and an administration that refused to account for the cost, 
refused to have a plan to start bringing our troops home, that refuses 
to admit we are in financial straits--financial straits they got us 
into. Because we must remember, when they came in, we had $200 billion 
surpluses, and now we are where we are with this wall of Federal debt.

The American people are tired of this. They want a fair accounting of 
what is going on in this country. They want a fair accounting of this 
war and a plan to bring our troops home. That is the best thing we can 
do for our troops, and that is the best thing we can do for our 
country.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.