# THE RULE OF LAW
## `5de81388e69f2becaf1649811169dd90`
`Mr. CARTER â€” 1 December 2009`

---


Mr. CARTER. Mr. Speaker, again tonight I rise here to talk about the 
rule of law and the fact that there are those in our society who seem 
to want to circumvent the rule of law and think because of their 
position either in Congress or in the government that the law shouldn't 
pertain to them the way it pertains to other Americans, that they 
should be treated specially. And even though our President stated that 
he didn't think that that's what the American people--that he was going 
to fight to make sure there was no special treatment for people other 
than everybody get treated equally, we've still got this issue going 
on. And I've been talking about this, and I've been talking about 
Chairman Rangel and his issues with the tax folks and about how the 
rule of law didn't seem to apply to him, and tonight I am going to talk 
about Secretary Geithner, the Secretary of the Treasury.

Before I start talking about this, I was thinking, as I was sitting 
here listening to people talk--and everybody was very informative--that 
there may be people who really don't understand what I say when I talk 
about the rule of law.

The rule of law is a very basic concept. It is a prevailing concept 
that holds our Republic together here in the United States. But in 
truth and fact, the whole world seeks a system where the rule of law 
prevails, because it is that system which gives recourse to the 
ordinary person. So let me just point out some of the things that we're 
talking about here tonight that the rule of law is part of.

When I say ''recourse,'' the average American citizen, if someone is 
breaking into their house, if they hear a burglar prying open the back 
door of their home, they call 911 and ask them to send out a police 
officer or a sheriff's deputy or someone to protect their home. And 
they know that we have procedures whereby that officer has the 
authority to come in and make an arrest of that person, to protect the 
homestead of the person that is being violated. They know that there's 
someone they can call who will help and that there are rules that the 
society they live in has established so that they get treated fairly in 
being protected by the law. And the person who is accused of breaking 
the law is also treated fairly, because they know that we have rules 
that we have all agreed upon. These are the rules that our society will 
follow. That is the rule of law.

When we talk about Afghanistan--which is an issue that probably, as I 
am speaking, the President is speaking on some other channel about 
this--the issue, when you're talking about counterinsurgency cut down 
to its finest point, is establishing the rule of law in a war zone, if 
you will. We did it in Iraq. And basically we did it with a civil 
principle which we've used in New York City to lower the crime rate. We 
used it in Philadelphia to lower the crime rate. Big cities have used 
it from time to time everywhere, and that is community policing. That 
is the idea that there is somebody in your neighborhood you can turn to 
and say, ''Help me. I need your help.''

And really, counterinsurgency is using the military to train up the 
local folks in their police force and their army so that their citizens 
know that they can be protected by their police force and their army 
and their court system and their government from those who would do 
them harm. So they don't have to look to the strongest guy in the 
neighborhood--which may be the Taliban--to protect their interests; 
they can look to the government and the society that's been established 
by that government.

And counterinsurgency is basically putting American forces and 
indigenous forces in place in neighborhoods all over Afghanistan so 
that the Afghan citizens realize there's someone there permanently to 
make sure that they are treated right and treated fairly. And so it's 
the beginning of the establishment of the rule of law.

We in the United States have been blessed for our entire history with 
a rule of law. And, in fact, we don't salute a king. We don't salute a 
dictator. We don't salute an individual that sovereignty comes from 
that individual. We salute a document.

When those of us who are fortunate enough to be elected to Congress 
and are able to serve our constituents back home here in Congress and 
we have the opportunity to be here in Congress, we stand up and we take 
an oath. And that oath is to the Constitution of the United States, 
that we will preserve, protect, and defend that Constitution from all 
enemies, foreign and domestic, because the Constitution is that set, 
beginning set of rules of law that we established this Republic under. 
So we are a very blessed Nation. We started with the rules of law.

Today, in many nations around this world, there are still folks who 
don't have some rules that they can feel comfortable will be there to 
protect their society. And a lot of what happens when you create a 
counterinsurgency force like we're doing in Afghanistan, we're 
establishing that security for those people who live in that country. 
So that is a little bit off subject, but it gets you to the idea of how 
important it is that a people, whoever the people are, wherever they 
exist on this Earth, have some set of rules they can feel they will be 
treated just like their neighbor next door or the guy clear across the 
country. They're going to be treated fairly, they're going to be 
treated well, and they're going to have a source that they can get 
recourse for something that happens to them. It is a very simple 
concept, but it is the foundation concept of a civil society, of a 
society that functions properly.

And one of the things that offends the rule of law and that has 
offended Americans at every stage of our history is when there are 
those who think, The law doesn't apply to me. It applies to you, but it 
doesn't apply to me. I am more important than you. I am a big shot or I 
am a powerful person or I am a rich person, so the law doesn't apply to 
me. It applies to you.



And there are always going to be those misdirected people in any 
society who feel that way. But it is our duty when we see people who 
are taking that position or where a group of people is taking that 
position on behalf of a individual, that they are above the law, they 
are above being treated the same as you might be treated or that I 
might be treated, they are special, they should have special treatment.

Let me show you what the President said about that. President Barack 
Obama on February 3, 2008 said, ''I campaign on changing Washington and 
bottom-up politics. I don't want to send a message to the American 
people that there are two sets of standards: one for powerful people 
and one for ordinary folks who are working every day and paying their 
taxes.''

That is what the President of the United States said about the rule 
of law as it pertains to what he wanted in his Presidency.

There are lots of laws in the United States that pertain to all of 
us. Most of us don't feel pressure about most laws. The vast majority 
of Americans citizens are very law abiding. They do what they are 
supposed to do. They may speed once in a while, and occasionally they 
get caught and they expect to be treated like everyone else. And they 
may do some other minor things that they shouldn't do. But the truth is 
the American people, we are very law-abiding people.

But there is one area that we are all affected by every day, and I 
would argue that many of us in this country fear, and that is the area 
of the Internal Revenue and our taxes. Quite


frankly, our Tax Code would just about fill this giant room, and we all 
wonder if anybody could possibly know what is in the Tax Code; and yet 
we are all supposed to fill out a form and pay our taxes every year. 
That is why people go to CPAs to help them with their taxes, because 
they are worried that they might not get it right and they might be 
punished for not getting it right. Some of them even worry that they 
might go to jail for not getting it right.

So Americans very diligently spend large amounts of their income 
every year to make sure that they get their taxes right. That goes for 
the ordinary guy and for the Ph.D. at the major university, the 
smartest guy in town. They all have to deal with the IRS and make sure 
that they do things right.

Well, everybody makes mistakes and sometimes somebody is going to 
make a mistake. Some people make those mistakes unintentionally; some, 
they intentionally do something wrong. The Tax Code has punishments to 
fit those individuals.

But what I want to talk about tonight is the fact that the man who is 
the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, he is the man who 
is in charge of our money and in charge of our tax system. The IRS 
reports to Secretary Geithner. Secretary Geithner did not pay some 
taxes that he was supposed to pay. So let me talk to you a little bit 
about that.

First, let me explain to you what happened with Mr. Geithner. Mr. 
Geithner has a master's in international economics from Johns Hopkins 
University. He is a director of policy development and review for the 
International Monetary Fund, a senior fellow on the Council of Foreign 
Relations. He is the U.S. Treasury Secretary, the head of the Internal 
Revenue Service. The specific tax violation he had was he failed to pay 
Social Security and Medicare taxes on the IMF earnings for tax years 
2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004. The total liability that he owed was 
approximately $43,200.

Now so you understand what this is, the International Monetary Fund 
was paying him separate and apart from what he is doing, and he has to 
be treated like self-employed. A self-employed person has to pay not 
only his share of payroll taxes, but he has to pay the employer's share 
of payroll taxes because you are self-employed. Self-employed people 
pay the employer's share of payroll taxes, which is basically Social 
Security and Medicare, and they pay their own share. If you look at 
your check, you will see your payroll taxes and how much you pay every 
month to the government.

Well, when you are paid by the International Monetary Fund, they give 
you a check every month or every year, I don't know which it is. It 
tells you how much you make and how much income taxes they paid on your 
behalf, and they tell you on that document you are responsible for 
paying your payroll taxes. It is not like someone didn't tell you. You 
read it when you get your check, when you get your statement about your 
income. You read it and it tells you, you have to pay this. We didn't 
take this out. You have to pay it.

Quite frankly, Mr. Geithner signed off on that document every year 
that told him that. And that part of the money he was being paid was 
for the purpose of paying these things. He has admitted that he made a 
shortfall in doing this. He said it was a mistake. He made a mistake. 
He had a signed statement. He signed a statement acknowledging that he 
owed the tax. He paid the taxes. His position with the IMF and his 
education specifically dealt with the issues of Social Security and 
Medicare, system integration in the world economy. He paid his taxes, 
but he didn't pay any--I think he paid his interest on the taxes--but 
he didn't pay any penalties on the taxes. But if you and I had done the 
same thing that Mr. Geithner did, we would have paid penalties.

The United States 14th Amendment is the equal protection clause of 
the United States Constitution. It states, among other things: nor 
shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty or property without 
due process of law, or deny any person within its jurisdiction the 
equal protection of the laws. Equal protection of the laws.

When we are talking about property, money is property just like land 
is property. Now, the IRS has lately decided to establish certain back 
tax penalties that you have to pay for failing to pay your taxes. And 
in fact they have got a program going on right now where they are 
saying to people who have made money offshore, if you come in and give 
yourself up because you earned some money offshore that you should have 
paid taxes on and pay those taxes, we will make you a deal and we will 
set out in black and white what your interest and penalties are going 
to be.

This is about penalties. Offshore depositors amnesty offer, what they 
promised to give them if you turn yourself in, only 20 percent of the 
amount will be for penalties. Offshore depositors without amnesty would 
pay 50 percent penalty. The standard taxpayers' negligent disregard, 
that means he was negligent and disregarded what he should owe, is 20 
percent. A standard taxpayer that defrauds the government, the 
penalties are 75 percent. So that's the rules that are supposed to 
apply to every American and every American entity, including 
corporations, partnerships, and so forth.

Secretary Tim Geithner paid zero on $43,200 in taxes that he didn't 
paid. Chairman Rangel paid zero. It seems that some taxpayers appear to 
be more equal than other taxpayers. That's what President Obama told us 
this administration is all about. No two sets of standards, one for 
powerful people and one for ordinary folks. That is what we are talking 
about in the rule of law. That is why I come down here and talk about 
the rule of law because quite frankly it is supposed to pertain to 
every one of us. Every one of us is supposed to be treated equally. 
And, quite frankly, there may be individual citizens that can negotiate 
this out, but we have asked the questions and we don't have the answers 
as to why they haven't paid this.


I have written letters to Chairman Rangel asking him to pay the 
penalties and interest. I got no reply. A good explanation would 
probably have prevented all of this, I don't know.

The same thing for Mr. Geithner. He has been asked in committee about 
this, and he said they didn't assess any penalties. That is kind of 
like saying the boss didn't punish himself for his malfeasance. I'm 
sorry, that's like the judge shouldn't punish himself if he did 
something wrong, and that is not how we operate in this country. People 
in authority should not be able to give themselves a break because they 
have authority over the agency that regulates and should regulate their 
behavior when they have violated the rules.

That is not what the rule of law is all about. That is not what we 
are trying to teach people in Iraq and Afghanistan with our military 
forces risking their lives to establish for them the safety and the 
assurance that the individual citizen in those countries will be 
treated fairly and will have somebody they can turn to to make sure 
that they are treated fairly.

This body, this Congress of the United States, should be about making 
sure that everybody is treated fairly. We should be about maintaining 
the oath that we took; and that oath said we will preserve, protect, 
and defend the Constitution of the United States. The oath we take in 
Texas is not only for the Constitution of the United States, but it is 
also for the State of Texas and the laws pertaining thereto. And that 
is our job. When we see things like this, we should be upset about it. 
We should be concerned about it.

We have introduced, or are going to introduce, a bill in the Congress 
that we are going to call the Geithner Penalty Waiver Act. This bill is 
to provide the same penalty rate for taxpayers who voluntarily disclose 
unreported income from offshore accounts as was afforded Timothy 
Geithner with respect to his failure to pay self-employment taxes with 
respect to his compensation from the Monetary Fund. The law pertaining 
to section 1401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the key word 
''same penalty.''

This formally recognizes the legal precedent already established by 
the IRS's treatment of U.S. Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner. So what I 
am saying in this bill that we are going to offer is basically, to all 
of these tax cheats that they seem to be talking about in the IRS right 
now that are offshore, if they come in and voluntarily do what they 
said they should


do, let's treat them like we treated the chief tax man of the United 
States, the top tax guy, treat them like him.



That's only fair. If he doesn't have to pay the penalties and 
interest, if he gets off from those penalties, I don't think any other 
people should have to pay penalties. Because the truth is, we want to 
do what the President said. We don't want there to be one set of laws 
for important people in Washington and another set of laws for the rest 
of the people in America and those who earn income that are Americans.

It's only fair. It's like the Rangel rule. If you haven't paid your 
taxes, you can write ''Rangel rule'' on your tax form and won't have to 
pay any penalty and interest--until Mr. Rangel does anyway. This is the 
same concept, it's the same indicator, that there are those, and they 
are in positions of very high power related to our tax structure, that 
are being treated differently from the ordinary American, the ordinary 
Texan that works in the oil fields or works in the computer industry 
and he fails to pay taxes or he is late on his taxes. He gets penalties 
and interest. And he pays them, just like any other taxpayer in the 
country.

When the IRS says you owe penalty and interest, you might question 
them. When they show you that you owe them and show you the law that 
pertains to you, we pay them, even if we have to work out a payment 
schedule, but we pay them. We don't get, Oh, well, I forgot who you 
were. Oh, I'm sorry. You don't have to pay penalties because I didn't 
realize you were the Secretary of the Treasury. I didn't realize you 
were the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, so just don't worry 
about it.

We don't get treated that way. I don't get treated that way. And I 
would argue that no Member of this House gets treated that way, with 
certain exceptions, and those exceptions are not right. And this 
political correctness we got going in this country, there are things 
that are right and there are things that are wrong. And you have to 
stand up and say, That's not right. That's what we're supposed to be. 
That's what we're supposed to do here. That's why we're here.

And I'm sure somewhere in this country today, as I'm speaking, 
there's some family that is almost sweating blood in their relationship 
with the Internal Revenue Service trying to figure out how they're 
going to meet the obligations. In some instances, people have messed up 
so bad in neglecting to pay their taxes that the penalties and interest 
are as much or more than the taxes that are owed. And sometimes this 
can be so onerous on a family, it can literally destroy that family 
because everything they have, or just about, is subject to a tax lien 
to be seized by the government and to be sold to force the payment of 
these things. This is serious stuff that happens to American citizens 
when they don't pay their taxes. And they all know that. Everybody here 
knows that. And everybody that might be watching this, they understand 
that failing to pay your taxes is serious business. It can be horrible 
for you and your family.

I don't want anything horrible to happen to Mr. Geithner, and I don't 
want anything horrible to happen to Mr. Rangel. But I want them to be 
treated like everybody else in the United States that's out there 
today. I want them to have to meet their obligations to our country 
just like every American citizen has to meet their obligations. And I 
will promise you that there are probably thousands of Americans out 
there today that are worrying where and how they are going to keep 
their family under the roof with the tax burden and the penalties and 
interest that have fallen upon them as a result of their failure to pay 
taxes. It's just not fair. It's just not fair.

More importantly, if you waive the rule for somebody because they're 
important, they have a title, they are special because you elected them 
or because somebody you elected appointed them to a job, this law 
affects every American in the country, the tax law. And so do all the 
other criminal laws and the other rules in this society. Are you going 
to let them get away with waiving those other rules, too?

We have talked some about this. We have had issues right here in this 
Congress about the President of the United States and the White House 
interfering in the rule of contract, and that's making sure that 
certain laws don't count for certain people. And that's not right.

When we had the takeover of the automobile industry, when they said 
the unions get their deal but the bondholders don't get their deal, 
they circumvented the law. Special privileges were given to special 
groups. That's wrong. We can't let this continue in this country. We 
can't continue to let the powerful dictate outside the law. Because 
where does it stop?

I see that my friend from Georgia (Mr. Westmoreland) is here to join 
me, and I'm proud to have him here, so I will yield to him for comments 
he may have on this subject.