# REMEMBERING SENATOR PAUL WELLSTONE
## `5e8dbfaa50561a5973f170286350a0a8`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 25 October 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, someone asked me once how I would describe 
my politics. I told them: I believe in the Gospels of Saint Paul. Paul 
Douglas. Paul Simon. And Paul Wellstone.

They were, in my opinion, three of the best public servants I have 
known. I had the privilege to know each of them and be inspired by 
them. Not a week goes by that I do not draw on some lesson or some 
truth they taught me.

Today, I find myself thinking especially of Paul Wellstone. It was 5 
years ago today that Paul and his wife Sheila died in a plane crash in 
heavy fog in the Iron Range of northern Minnesota. The information 
reached us in Chicago a few hours later. I was asked to comment on 
local television station. I am sure that the emotion in my voice 
betrayed my real feelings about this great man, and Sheila.

Also lost in the crash were Paul and Sheila's daughter Marcia; their 
friends and campaign workers, Will McLaughlin, Tom Lapic and Mary 
McEvoy; and the plane's pilots, Richard Conroy and Michael Guess.

To understand who Paul Wellstone was and what he meant to so many 
people, listen to this story from John Nichols, the Washington 
correspondent for ''The Nation.''

Two hours after the plane crash, he had just finished delivering a 
keynote speech to about 150 family farm activists in a small town in 
Wisconsin when the conference organizer whispered the news to him. 
These were people who knew Paul Wellstone as the college professor who 
was willing to march with them--and even to be arrested with them--to 
protest family farm foreclosures. When he was elected to the Senate, 
they thought of Paul Wellstone as their Senator, whether or not they 
lived in Minnesota.

When they learned that he had died, John Nichols wrote: ''Cries of 
''No!'' and ''My God! My God!'' filled the room, as grown men felt for 
tables to keep their balance, husbands and wives hugged one another and 
everyone began an unsuccessful struggle to choke back tears. The group 
gathered


in a large circle. People wept in silence until, finally, a woman began 
to recite the Lord's Prayer for the son of Russian Jewish immigrants 
who had touched the lives and the hearts of solid Midwestern Catholic 
and Lutheran farmers who do not think of themselves as having many 
friends in Congress.

''He was our flagbearer,'' one woman said. ''There are plenty of 
people in Congress who vote right, but Paul did everything right. We 
didn't have to ask him, we didn't have to lobby him, he understood. It 
was like having one of us in Congress.''

That was how Paul Wellstone wanted it. He once said: People have to 
believe you are on their side, that someone in the Senate is listening. 
If there is someone in Congress, maybe just one person, it gives them a 
sense that change is possible.

Paul Wellstone was, by some standards, one of the unlikeliest 
Senators ever. His first election, in 1990, remains one of the great 
upset victories in Minnesota history. He was a college professor taking 
on an incumbent Senator. His campaign had very little money.

He bought his first three suits--for $100 apiece--during that 
campaign, and crisscrossed Minnesota in an old green school bus that 
always seemed to be breaking down.

No matter. What he lacked in money and consultants, he more than made 
up for in ideas and passion and hustle. ''Politics,'' he said, ''is 
what we create by what we do, what we hope for, and what we dare to 
imagine.''

Minnesotans believed him, and sent him to the U.S. Senate--the only 
challenger to defeat an incumbent Senator that year.

Even with his new suits, Paul Wellstone stood out in the Senate. 
During his first weeks here, one reporter wrote that he ''projects an 
image of barely in-control energy and enthusiasm.'' Another reporter 
described how ''he has a habit of going pie-eyed with excitement and 
pumping the air with his hands.''

I remember him in the back row here. He used to like to get a long 
cord on his microphone and range all over that area, just walking and 
talking and waving his arms with that kind of stumbling gait that was 
part of the back injury that had haunted him most of his adult life. 
When he got going, people were listening, always.

When Paul Wellstone was in junior high, his mother--a Ukrainian 
immigrant--worked in the cafeteria of his school--a fact that 
embarrassed her son greatly. Later in life, whenever he visited a 
school, he always introduced himself to the cafeteria workers.

He did the same thing in the Senate. He seemed to know every security 
guard, kitchen worker, and elevator operator in this Capitol Building 
by name.

But this is what was different about Paul Wellstone: He didn't just 
talk to cafeteria workers; he voted as a Senator with them in mind. As 
he said, ''Some people are here to fight for the Rockefellers. I'm here 
to fight for the little fellers.'' I am sure Jay Rockefeller didn't 
take offense.

Paul Wellstone fought for family farmers on the edge of foreclosure, 
for workers facing layoffs, for older people trying to decide which 
prescription to fill this month. He and Sheila--his indispensable 
partner for 39 years--fought for women and children threatened by 
violence.

He fought for teachers and coal miners. For veterans. For people 
suffering the sting of discrimination and denial because of race, 
gender, sexual orientation, or physical or mental disability.

He fought for immigrant parents who work at less-than-minimum-wage 
jobs. He listened to them, and looked them in the eye. And when he did, 
he used to say, he saw his own parents.

He fought for ''good education, good health care, and good jobs.'' He 
demanded fairness for those to whom life had been unfair. He gave 
people hope and courage.

It didn't matter to him if he was on the wrong end of a 99-to-1 vote. 
He voted his conscience. I was in the Senate one day when we had a vote 
on a defense-related issue. I had decided that I was going to vote 
against an amendment about to be called by one of the Senators on the 
other side of the aisle. As is custom in the Senate, they roll through 
the rollcall and recount who voted how. When they listed the names in 
the negative, mine was the only name they mentioned and I realized I 
was by myself, and I said, ''Where's Wellstone?'' And darned if he 
didn't walk through the door and vote ''no'' with me. That's the kind 
of person he was. He wasn't afraid to be the only one or the only one 
of two Senators voting on an issue.

Now, Paul Wellstone was a wrestler not just with issues but 
literally--he was a champion wrestler in high school. In the Senate--
even with that bad back and hobbled by M.S.--he remained incredibly 
strong. He held the push-up record at the Capitol police gym: 91 in 1 
minute. But it was his strength of character, even more than his 
strength of body, that was truly extraordinary.

I remember the night the Senate voted on the Iraq war resolution. Mr. 
President, there were 23 of us who voted against the Iraq war 
resolution. Three of us remained on the floor afterwards--three of us 
who had voted no. The Chamber was clear; it was late at night. I recall 
walking up to Paul Wellstone, who was in a tight election contest back 
in Minnesota, and saying to him: Paul, I hope this doesn't cost you the 
election. And he said to me: It's OK if it does. This is what I believe 
and this is who I am. The people of Minnesota would not expect anything 
less.

That was it. A handful of words, summarizing who he was and what he 
believed in and what he thought politics was all about. That was the 
last conversation that I had with Paul Wellstone before he lost his 
life in that plane crash 5 years ago today.

Much was lost in that crash. But much survives. To keep their 
parents' work alive, Paul and Sheila's sons, Mark and David, have 
started a progressive advocacy organization called Wellstone Action. 
Perfect. In the last 4 years, more than 14,300 people have attended 
''Camp Wellstone'' workshops in nearly every state, where they have 
learned to how to make politics relevant and effective. And here I am 
going to give a plug: if you want to know more about their good work, 
go to their Web site: www.wellstone.org. Take a look.

The Senate is fortunate to still have the service of talented, 
passionate men and women who learned from Paul Wellstone himself. I 
count myself lucky as one of those lucky ones.

One thing I will close with: One of Paul Wellstone's real passions 
was this issue of discrimination against the mentally ill. It touched 
his life and his family and he knew it personally and was determined to 
make sure those suffering from mental illness had a fair shake for 
health insurance and medical services. He did not get the job done by 
the time he left us in the Senate, but that battle was carried on 
valiantly by Senator Ted Kennedy and Senator Pete Domenici, who passed 
the legislation. I hope that the House will pass a similar bill soon so 
we can honor Paul Wellstone and do something important.

Paul Wellstone was full of hope. A reporter who knew him well 
recalled a conversation they had after the 1994 elections, when 
Democrats lost control of both Houses of Congress for the first time in 
decades.

This is what he wrote:




 Wellstone was upset but not down. ''We don't have time for 


 despair,'' he said. ''The fight doesn't change. It just gets 


 harder. But it's the same fight.''


I wish Paul Wellstone were here today. Of all of the thousands of men 
and women I have served with in the House and Senate he and Congressman 
Mike Synar of Oklahoma are two that I always wish were around for a 
phone call, for a word of advice--just to sit with for a few moments 
and hear their brand of politics.

If Paul Wellstone were here today I know what he would tell us: Don't 
give up. Don't despair. There are so many people counting on you. 
You've got to keep fighting. So let's do more than just honor and miss 
our friend today. Let's vow to stick together, pick up the fallen 
standard and continue his work.