# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `5ed608084f0c88a78d64448c5548bd59`
`Mr. HOYER â€” 16 June 2009`

---


Mr. HOYER. I rise in strong support of this legislation. Eighty 
percent or more of this bill is to support the young men and women, and 
some not so young, whom we have sent in harm's way in Iraq and 
Afghanistan to confront terrorism. We passed that bill. We passed it 
with 368 votes.

It then went to the Senate, and the Senate amended the bill and added 
additional funding for the IMF, the International Monetary Fund. That 
did not squeak by on some partisan vote. In fact, more than two-thirds 
of the Senators voting on that issue, including approximately 25 
percent of the Republicans voting on that issue, voted to include the 
IMF. Why? Because, like Ronald Reagan, President George Bush in the 
1990s, President George Bush in 2008, because they believed that the 
IMF itself was an important asset in the seeking of security by the 
United States of America.

Now, we didn't put it in that bill. But it's supported by two-thirds 
of the United States Senate, supported by the President of the United 
States, who, when he met with the G-20, pledged to play our part in 
trying to bring the security that this country has paid so dearly to 
achieve. Our share is approximately 20 percent. The other members of 
the G-20, 19 nations, will be putting up 80 percent. Why? Because they 
too believe this is enhancing the security of their countries and also 
what they think it does to lift up the poorest nations of the world. 
Not Iran, who hasn't gotten any money since 1984 when Ronald Reagan was 
President, the last time Iran got money from the IMF. Not Hezbollah, no 
discussions with them. The United States would clearly weigh in to stop 
such funding; properly so.

So we have a bill that seeks security and peace, and it's two-pronged 
now, not one. And I suggest to you that it is my belief that if it were 
a Republican President asking for this that this bill would pass with 
some 368 votes again. Why? Because Democrats would join in the 
Republican President's request, as we have in the past, and say this is 
for America's security, for international security, and we'll support 
it.

Now, this bill does some other things. We have a pandemic flu, swine 
flu, H1N1 flu, that is now at a level that the World Health 
Organization says is 41 years historically in the context. And the 
administration has said, because of that, we need additional funds for 
new vaccines.

We didn't have that in our bill. Clearly, there's not a Member in 
this House that doesn't want to take care of the health of our people. 
I might say, although he doesn't carry a lot of weight on your side of 
the aisle, that Jim Leach has strongly endorsed this effort; for the 
same reason, Ronald Reagan, who we honored just the other day. Just the 
other day we heard so many people say what a great leader Ronald Reagan 
was.

I'm going to quote Ronald Reagan for you, if I can find it real 
quickly. Ronald Reagan said this: The IMF is the linchpin of the 
international financial system. That's Ronald Reagan. He went on to 
say, I have an unbreakable commitment to increased funding for IMF. 
That's not a Democrat. That is a conservative leader that you revere, 
who led this country, and was strongly supported by this country.

And I want you to know that I supported Ronald Reagan on most of his 
security initiatives, as my good friend Jerry Lewis knows, because I 
believed that we needed to make America stronger and to tell our Soviet 
adversaries that we were prepared to invest in the security of our 
country.



I think, in doing so, they ultimately decided that they couldn't 
compete, and glasnost and perestroika came about.

The first President Bush said this: ''The IMF and the World Bank are 
at the crossroads of our cooperative efforts.''

Remember the responsibility of Speaker Gingrich when he said in 1998: 
''We have an obligation to work with the International Monetary Fund.''

This is not a partisan issue, but I suggest to you it has been made a 
partisan reason to oppose this bill and to try to embarrass Democrats, 
very frankly, that we can't pass funding. We can and we will. I urge 
you to join us. I urge you to forget the partisan rhetoric. I urge you 
to think of Ronald Reagan, of George Bush, of the second George Bush, 
of Newt Gingrich, and of so many other Republican leaders who I won't 
take the time to quote, who have said that this is a critical component 
of our security apparatus.

We did not have it in our bill, but we all know how the legislative 
process works. The other body, particularly when it does so by a two-
thirds vote, adds legislation. The President of the United States 
believes that's good legislation, and very frankly, I believe it's good 
legislation, and many in this House do as well. Would we have added it? 
We didn't, but it's here.

Do not use this addition by the United States Senate as a reason to 
say, ''I can't vote,'' for 80 percent of this bill supports those young 
men and women and, as I said, some not so young who are deployed abroad 
in the defense of freedom and in the furtherance of our security.

I will tell you, my friends, on numerous occasions, as most of you 
know who have served with me, I have put my card in the slot or have 
come to this well or have raised my voice on behalf of Republican 
Presidents who sought to further the security of this country. I am 
proud of those votes. I am proud of that voice. I ask you to join me 
today to support our troops, to support our national security, to 
support propping up countries that will be the repositories of 
economies that will further the ability of terrorists to recruit in 
countries that find themselves without jobs, without economic 
opportunity for their young people and that will have them turn and be 
recruited by those who would undermine their lives and would recruit 
them as terrorists.

So I urge each one of my colleagues: This is a vote for America, for 
its interests and for its troops. Do not delude yourselves that this is 
not a vote to support the troops. Eighty percent plus of this bill is 
about American servicemen and women in harm's way. Stand up for them.