# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `5f10700081992e511cadb1f8265a65ce`
`Mr. ISRAEL â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

And, Mr. Speaker, I want to say that I fully respect the views of the 
gentleman from California, but I do get troubled when I hear anybody on 
this floor questioning the commitment of any other Member of this floor 
to our troops.

I did not suggest for a moment that the other side was not supportive 
of our troops when they underfunded our troops, when they didn't 
provide enough up-armor for their Humvees, when they didn't provide 
enough armor for their vests, when they allowed Water Reed Hospital to 
deteriorate.

When these things happened, I never questioned the commitment of the 
other side to our troops. And I think we would all appreciate it if we 
confine our differences to honest policy debate and not suggest that 
any Member of this body does not support the brave men and women who 
are fighting for our country.

I support this resolution because it is another attempt at good-
faith, honest compromise with the President of the United States. Two 
weeks ago we offered a compromise to the President. We said we will 
give you everything that you have asked for, for operations in Iraq, 
and we will give you more for operations in Afghanistan, where the war 
on terror began. We will give you more money for Walter Reed, for post-
traumatic stress disorder, for traumatic brain injuries. And the 
President


said, no thanks. I want a blank check and I want to be able to spend a 
blank check eternally.

And now we are back offering a new compromise which says we will fund 
operations in Iraq. We will strengthen our capabilities in Afghanistan. 
But we want accountability for the first time, Mr. President. And all 
we are saying is this: report to the United States Congress, certify 
our progress, and in 2 months we will have a choice. Some people can 
say the status quo is working fine, progress has been made, the 
management of the administration is going well, and vote to continue 
operations in Iraq. And others will have the opportunity to draw a 
different conclusion and suggest a strategic redeployment. That is a 
commonsense compromise. And, frankly, if the President of the United 
States vetoes this compromise, he is saying to the American people I 
don't want accountability. I don't want oversight. I want it my way. I 
want it myself.

I just want to thank the gentleman for including language that was 
originated by the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Skelton) that codified 
the President's own language that for every Iraqi soldier that reaches 
combat proficiency, an American is redeployed. The President has been 
saying that for 4 years.

If 378,000 Iraqis have reached combat proficiency, why did we need a 
surge of 20,000? Why do we need another 13,000 that the President 
called for? All we are doing is codifying the President's own language: 
for every Iraqi soldier that is trained, an American is redeployed.

I thank the chairman for including that language. I thank the 
gentleman from Missouri for originating it.