# None
## `5ff52c9281c514a23a4cfa4bce3b512f`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut â€” 6 February 2008`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Let's hammer that home in a real world way 
for people. What does it mean when the President's budget reduces 
payments to nursing homes? In Connecticut, we have had a real crisis 
with a particular nursing home group that has gotten a lot of attention 
in the paper, Mr. Altmire, in the last several months regarding some 
really inexcusable conditions in those nursing homes, low levels of 
staffing, no remediation when violations had been found. And that 
problem is not going to get better if the solution from the Federal 
Government is to cut the funding that goes to those nursing homes. 
These nursing homes are already stretched very thin. There already 
isn't enough staff to cover the residents and make sure that seniors 
that are staying there are living under safe and humane conditions at 
all times in some places.

This cut that the President is talking about in the cut and 
reimbursement rates to nursing homes is going to have a direct effect 
on the care that many thousands, hundreds of thousands of seniors get 
in this country. Your loved ones, your neighbors, their care is going 
to be compromised by this.

The safety of your community is potentially going to be compromised 
by a zeroing out of the COPS budget. Communities will be less safe 
because there will be fewer community police on the beat. Those are the 
real world consequences of the budget that the President is putting 
before us.

And the question is just a matter of choices. And that's what I hope 
that every Member of this House goes out and endeavors to ask over the 
next month or so as we debate this Bush budget, which is are you sure 
that your community wants to spend another $70 billion in Iraq rather 
than put cops on the beat or put staff in your grandmother's nursing 
home? Are you sure that the constituents in your district want to give 
away another massive tax break to the richest 1 percent of Americans 
instead of putting cops on the beat or putting staff in your 
grandmother's nursing home? Those are the questions that people are 
going to have to ask. And I think, Mr. Altmire, there's only one answer 
to that in any district in this country whether you are represented by 
a Republican or a Democrat.