# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `60399c62d5c483c73c6830e188827805`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, will the Chair please advise me when I 
have 2 minutes remaining?

Madam President, this room we work in, this Chamber where the Senate 
meets, is a Chamber that has seen a lot of history in its time. There 
have been moments of great pride, and, unfortunately, moments I am sure 
where the


opposite has occurred in the history of this great Chamber.

It has been my honor to represent the wonderful State of Illinois for 
10 years as a Senator. Fewer than 2,000 Americans have ever had this 
chance to serve as a Senator. But the men and women who have been given 
the opportunity are also given a responsibility far beyond the 
responsibility of any individual citizen.

Votes come and go. If you put me on the spot and say: Tell me all 
your votes from 2 weeks ago, I would be hard pressed to remember. But 
there are some votes you can never forget. Whether as a Member of the 
House of Representatives or a Member of the Senate, I have found the 
votes that gnaw into my conscience and keep me awake at night are votes 
related to war because when you vote on war, you know that at the end 
of the day, if you move forward, people will die. It may be the enemy, 
but it is likely to also include many of your own and innocent people.

So in October of 2002, just weeks before reelection, we gathered in 
this Chamber late at night, with the President who insisted that we 
vote to give him authority to go to war in Iraq. It was not that long 
after we had given him the authority to go after those responsible for 
9/11, our current war in Afghanistan against the Taliban and al-Qaida.

But sadly before that vote, the American people were misled; misled 
by the President, the Vice President, the Cabinet, and the leaders of 
our Nation about the war in Iraq. The information given us about that 
war was wrong. We were told that Saddam Hussein was a threat to the 
United States of America. That was not true. He was a bloody tyrant, 
ruthless with his own people. He would certainly not win the approval 
of anyone in this Chamber for what he had done to his nation, but he 
was not a threat to us.


We were told about weapons of mass destruction that beat the drums of 
war and had our people anxious to respond quickly to protect us. People 
in the White House were talking about mushroom-shaped clouds and 
chemical weapons and biological weapons and stockpiles and aerial 
photographs to prove that they all existed. It turned out none of that 
was true.

The most grievous sin in a democracy is to mislead the American 
people into a war, and that is what occurred. We were misled into a war 
that night with a vote in this Chamber. On that evening there were 23 
of us who voted against that war. There were a variety of reasons, but 
most of us believed the President had not made a solid case for the 
war, for the invasion of Iraq, and that he had not thought through what 
might occur if we made that invasion.

I can recall one of my colleagues saying: It is far easier to get 
into a war than it is to get out. In the fifth year of this war, that 
certainly has been proven true.

I voted against the war that evening, 1 of 22 Democrats, less than a 
majority of our own, with 1 Republican. Of all the votes that I have 
ever cast in the House and Senate, it is the one of which I am the 
proudest. I have never looked back with any doubt about that vote, not 
one time.

Look what has happened since. Almost 3,800 of our best and brightest 
sons and daughters of Illinois and every State in the Union have died 
in Iraq. Thousands have been injured, some gravely injured. I visit 
their hospital rooms, I meet with their families, I watch as they 
struggle to make life out of a broken body, trying to regain the spirit 
to look forward instead of backward. It is a bitter struggle.

Today, Senator Feingold of Wisconsin gives us a clear choice. Will we 
continue this war or will we bring it to a close? Will we change our 
mission and start to bring our troops home or will we allow this war to 
continue?

I sincerely hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will look 
carefully at his amendment. He has worked long and hard on it.

He makes it clear that we are not going to pick up and leave 
tomorrow. We are going to redeploy in an orderly fashion. We are going 
to make certain our war against al-Qaida can still be waged within Iraq 
and wherever they raise their ugly heads. He is also going to make sure 
that we protect our own and make certain that we provide training 
assistance, limited, but training assistance to the Iraqis so they can 
stand up and defend their own country.

So many of our colleagues have come to the floor and said: Do not 
change a thing. Stick with the strategy. Well, I have been there three 
times now. I was just there a few weeks ago. It is a grim, sad, 
horrific situation in Iraq. And there is no way to sugarcoat it. No 
report from any general or any ambassador can change the reality of 
what is happening on the ground there.

To be given body armor when you go into Iraq, and a helmet, and be 
told: You better wear this wherever you go, tells me this is not a safe 
country. In the fifth year of this war, the safest area in Baghdad, in 
the Green Zone, they tell you: Put the body armor and helmet down at 
the end of the bed because when the sirens go off you have 4 to 6 
seconds to put it on.

See, we cannot have rocket attacks into what we call the safest area 
of Baghdad. There are parts of that city where they would not even 
consider sending a Congressman or a Senator, just too dangerous, in the 
fifth year of this war with 160,000 or 170,000 of the best soldiers in 
the world.

This administration is in complete denial about what is occurring in 
Iraq. They are in complete denial about what the American people feel 
about this war. And they are in complete denial about the utter failure 
of the Iraqi Government to lead its own people forward.

The Iraqis need to make some fundamental decisions before we can 
celebrate democracy in Iraq. And the first question they have to 
resolve is, are they Iraqis first or are they members of a religious 
sect first? I do not think that question has been resolved. It 
certainly has not been resolved in parts of the Muslim world for 14 
centuries, and sadly the crucible of this battle now is Iraq.

Our soldiers, our men and women in uniform, have been tossed into 
this bloody, deadly sectarian fight that continues by the day. The 
Iraqi Government finds excuse after excuse not to produce the most 
basic elements of governance, and as they plunder and blunder away, our 
soldiers die in the streets of their cities.

I have had it. Someone said to me earlier: Well, are the American 
people putting a lot of pressure on you about this war?

I said in response: The American people could not put more pressure 
on me about this war than I already feel. I feel for every one of those 
soldiers I sat down with for lunch in that country. I feel for all of 
them I see shipping out from my State and all across America. I feel 
for every wife and husband back home, trying to keep these kids 
together during a lengthy deployment.