# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `60c99bc5f9abd0b7bb60ad98b0b282cd`
`Mr. PAUL â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I rise 
in support of the resolution and in opposition to the escalation in 
Iraq. I want to thank the gentleman from North Carolina for his very 
determined and principled effort to end this ill-advised and dangerous 
war, and I am very pleased that he brought together a group of Members 
today who are representing the traditional conservative position on war 
and peace and I deeply appreciate that.

Mr. Speaker, this grand debate is welcomed, but it could be that this 
is nothing more than a distraction from the dangerous military 
confrontation approaching with Iran, which is supported by many in 
leadership on both sides of the aisle. This resolution, unfortunately, 
does not address the disaster in Iraq. Instead, it appears to oppose 
the war while at the same time offering no change of the status quo in 
Iraq.

As such, it is not actually a vote against a troop surge. A real vote 
against a troop surge is a vote against the coming supplemental 
appropriation which finances it. I hope all my colleagues who vote 
against this surge today will vote against the budgetary surge when it 
really counts, when we vote on the supplemental.

The biggest red herring in this debate is the constant innuendo that 
those who don't support expanding the war are somehow opposing the 
troops. It is nothing more than a canard to claim that those of us who 
struggled to prevent the bloodshed and now want it stopped are somehow 
less patriotic and less concerned about the welfare of our military 
personnel.

Osama bin Laden has expressed sadistic pleasure with the invasion in 
Iraq and was surprised that we served his interests above and beyond 
his dreams on how we responded after the 9/11 attacks. His pleasure 
comes from our policy of folly, getting ourselves bogged down in the 
middle of a religious civil war 7,000 miles from home that is 
financially bleeding us to death. Total costs now are recently 
estimated to exceed $2 trillion. His recruitment of Islamic extremists 
has been greatly enhanced by our occupation of Iraq.

Unfortunately, we continue to concentrate on the obvious 
mismanagement of a war promoted by false information and ignore 
debating the real issue which is this: Why are we determined to follow 
a foreign policy of empire building and preemption which is unbecoming 
of a constitutional republic?

Those on the right should recall that the traditional conservative 
position of nonintervention was their position for most of the 20th 
century, and they benefited politically from the wars carelessly 
entered into by the left. Seven years ago, the right benefited 
politically by condemning the illegal intervention in Kosovo and 
Somalia. At the time, the right was outraged over the failed policy of 
nation building.

It is important to recall that the left in 2003 offered little 
opposition to the preemptive war in Iraq, and many are now not willing 
to stop it by defunding it, or work to prevent an attack on Iran.



The catch-all phrase the ''war on terrorism'' in all honesty has no 
more meaning than if one wants to wage a war against criminal 
gangsterism. Terrorism is a tactic. You can't have a war against a 
tactic. It is deliberately vague and nondefinable in order to justify 
and permit perpetual war anywhere and under any circumstances. Don't 
forget, the Iraqis and Saddam Hussein had nothing to do with any 
terrorist attack against us, including that on 9/11.

Special interests and the demented philosophy of conquests have 
driven most wars throughout all of history. Rarely has the cause of 
liberty, as it was in our own Revolution, been the driving force. In 
recent decades, our policies have been driven by neoconservative empire 
radicalism, profiteering in the military-industrial complex, misplaced 
do-good internationalism, mercantilistic notions regarding the need to 
control natural resources, and blind loyalty to various governments in 
the Middle East.

For all the misinformation given the American people to justify our 
invasion, such as our need for national security, enforcing U.N. 
resolutions, removing a dictator, establishing a democracy, protecting 
our oil, the argument has been reduced to this: If we leave now, Iraq 
will be left in a mess; implying the implausible, that if we stay, it 
won't be a mess.

Since it could go badly when we leave, that blame must be placed on 
those who took us there, not on those of us who now insist that 
Americans no longer need be killed or maimed, and that Americans no 
longer need to kill any more Iraqis. We have had enough of both.

Resorting to a medical analogy: A wrong diagnosis was made at the 
beginning of the war and the wrong treatment was prescribed. Refusing 
to reassess our mistakes and insisting on just more and more of a 
failed remedy is destined to kill the patient. In this case, the 
casualties will be our liberties and prosperity, here at home, and 
peace abroad.

There is no logical reason to reject the restraints placed in the 
Constitution regarding our engaging in foreign conflicts unrelated to 
our national security. The advice of the founders and our early 
Presidents was sound then, and it is sound today.

We shouldn't wait until our financial system is completely ruined and 
we are forced to change our ways. We should do it as quickly as 
possible and stop the carnage and the financial bleeding that will 
bring us to our knees and eventually force us to stop that which we 
should have never started.

We all know in time the war will be defunded one way or another and 
the troops will come home. So why not now?