# RECKLESS OVERSPENDING BY THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
## `60f5837219fe122062b54d24ae3af2d2`
`Mr. AKIN â€” 22 April 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Good evening, Mr. Speaker. Thank you for recognizing me.

I am interested tonight in talking about a subject that I think is on 
the minds of Americans everywhere and has gotten people not just on 
their minds, but on their hearts as well. They're exercised, they're 
concerned, they're worried. And that is the subject of taxes, and 
really reckless overspending on the part of the Federal Government.

We have heard over the past about 6 years or 7 years the high cost of 
the war, particularly in Iraq. People say, hey, we are spending a 
tremendous amount of money every day in Iraq, what are we getting for 
our money? This thing is breaking our budget. We're spending too much 
money. This is terrible. And then what we see here in the first 5 weeks 
of the Congress meeting, we saw them passing what was supposed to be a 
stimulus bill--or I call it a porkulus bill--and that bill, at $840 
billion, was more money than we spent in 6 and 7 years, respectively, 
in the war in Iraq added to the war in Afghanistan. So we were really 
burning some serious money just in the first 5 weeks.

Now, let's add to that, turn forward a little bit, and the American 
public is becoming exercised about this subject. And just this last 
week, on the day when filing of taxes is due, we saw all across our 
country a massive turnout of people, just average citizens, largely--at 
least certainly that's what it was in the St. Louis area--having these 
TEA parties. And they were very upset. And they carried all kinds of 
signs to express their concern about this problem of reckless 
overspending on the part of the Federal Government. Some of the signs 
read--and they were fairly clever--''Give Me Liberty, Not Debt,'' 
obviously taking off of Patrick Henry. And it said ''No More Pork.'' 
Here's one, ''Got Taxes? Got Government? Get Liberty.''



Then there was a 6 year-old that carried the sign, ''I am 6 years old 
and I


owe $36,400 in taxes.'' And there were a number of other ones that were 
fairly pointed, ''Freedom, not socialism'' and things like that.

People are really getting very concerned and with very good reason 
about our reckless overspending.

In fact, there was enough pressure from all of these different events 
that happened all over the country that the President felt like he had 
to make some kind of a statement or gesture. And so he said, very 
graciously, look, I will tell you what we are going to do. We are going 
to try to find $100 million in the budget of wasted spending, to get 
rid of $100 million.

Well, we have illustrated that point here graphically to my left.

This first circle is $410 billion, and that was called an omnibus 
bill. That was just finishing up the spending for this year.

Then we had two of this supposedly stimulus bill, which is what I was 
just talking about, at $787 billion in its final version, and then on 
top of that is the proposed $3.69 trillion, so these graphically 
represent the amount of money we are overspending and Obama's requested 
budget cuts represented by this spot, even on this chart, the size of 
an eraser.

To try to put that into perspective, let's say that your family 
budget is $100,000. You have a $100,000 budget for the year, but you 
are $34,000 behind. That's like calling the whole family together and 
saying to them, now, here is what I am going to do. I am going to give 
up a $3 Starbucks coffee. That's what this $100 million is equivalent 
to: $3 on a $100,000 budget.

So these numbers show the fact that the administration and the 
current Congress just doesn't get it. This overspending problem is 
really serious, and the public is getting, as I said, very concerned 
about it.

I have a statement from one of my constituents here, this is what he 
wrote to me.

He said, this is William from the Saint Louis area, ''I am a small 
businessman in Union, Missouri, employing 12 people. I built my 
business from practically nothing to a company worth enough to retire 
on, or so I thought. I am 62 years old and plan to sell my business in 
3 years and to retire on the proceeds.

''In the year I sell my Federal tax rate will be 39 percent, that is 
assuming that Obama does not raise it even further by then, and my 
Missouri tax rate will be 6 percent. Since I am a service company, we 
have no real assets to sell. Virtually all of the proceeds will be 
taxed as ordinary income.

''That means that I worked a good part of my life to build a future 
and the taxing authorities are going to take 45 percent.

''Since my IRA accounts have been decimated thanks to,'' I believe he 
is talking about Congressman Frank and Senator Dodd,'' it looks like I 
will have to work until I die.''

And then, bitterly, ''Only in America.''

People around America are very upset about what's going on.

I have a good friend, a Congressman from Georgia, Congressman Lynn 
Westmoreland, I believe that you have a chart also depicting in a 
different way the seriousness of what's going on with our excessive 
overspending.