# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `6116e670c14ed52eb5b0fac59db476aa`
`Mr. McKEON â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak against the motion 
under consideration. As the House debates this so called non-binding 
resolution concerning the recently implemented troop surge in Iraq, I 
think it is important to remind my colleagues exactly what is being 
sought by this resolution and what is to be accomplished with its 
passage.

This ill-conceived resolution seeks to do two incompatible and indeed 
conflicting things; it attempts to speak for this chamber in 
disapproving the proposed troop increase. And it simultaneously claims 
to support those troops, whose devotion to duty is essential, in 
prosecuting a mission which is, in part, renounced by this very same 
resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I do not question that the members who serve in this 
chamber do so with integrity and with a high regard for the men and 
women who serve in uniform. I do, however, question the wisdom of 
considering a resolution which will have no practical effect, but will 
have serious and inevitable consequences for the men and women who have 
been asked to serve.

While we consider this resolution, our enemies, in prosecuting their 
side of this war--will little note its allegedly non-binding character. 
In that sense, Mr. Speaker, this is very much a binding resolution. It 
binds this House irreversibly to a statement of disapproval. But it 
will do nothing to change the situation to which it is nominally 
addressed, because it does not bind our words to any actions.

General Peter Pace, in his testimony before the Armed Services 
Committee displayed confidence in our armed forces. He said that he 
believes our men and women in uniform understand the intricacies of our 
democracy and the nature of our vibrant debate in this Congress. Mr. 
Speaker, I would add that while they may understand our prerogatives, 
they will seek to decipher our intent and the resolve of this Chamber 
to support them in this fight. I also believe that they will rightfully 
see this resolution for what it is--mere contradiction.

Without our continued commitment to the young democracy in Iraq, the 
political and security situation in that country will suffer tremendous 
setbacks. Without support from American troops and our allies, there is 
a greater chance of failure in Iraq. General Petraeus, Commanding 
Officer of Multi-National Force-Iraq, last month described what failure 
in Iraq would look like when he said that ''Sectarian groups would 
obviously begin to stake out their turf, try to expand their turf. They 
would do that by greatly increased ethnic cleansing.''

Defense Secretary Robert Gates in a press conference last month said 
that if we fail, ''One would see an emboldened and strengthened Iran, a 
safe haven and base of operations for jihadist networks in the heart of 
the Middle East, a humiliating defeat in the overall campaign against 
violent extremism worldwide, and an undermining of the credibility of 
the United States.'' Mr. Speaker, these results are not acceptable to 
Americans because they are not in America's interest and because more 
turmoil in Iraq or the Middle East will unacceptably threaten our 
national security.

Mr. Speaker, we know that among the strengths that our men and women 
in uniform possess is the courage to carry on. They are armed with the 
notion that no matter what inspires our enemies, we fight in defense of 
human dignity and natural rights. This chamber, which would say that it 
supports our troops, should not do anything that would lead those 
troops to question the meaning or sincerity of our support.

I therefore encourage my colleagues to join me in opposing this 
dangerous resolution, which in two short paragraphs declares principles 
while avoiding the actions those principles seemingly require.