# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 4173, WALL STREET REFORM AND  CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT OF 2009
## `612cb23a55bed694edd8030353c737c5`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts â€” 9 December 2009`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. Speaker, few people in this House 
apparently recognize, or in the country, the enormous significance of 
January 21, 2009. That is apparently the day in which a number of 
extraordinary things happened. It's the day on which bailouts began. 
According to my Republican colleagues, there weren't any before. 
Bailouts, you may think they started under George Bush, the bailout of 
General Motors, of AIG, of Chrysler, and the TARP bill. Some people may 
think they happened in 2008. No. Apparently, they started on January 
21, 2009. That's also the day, of course, that the war in Afghanistan, 
which was going wonderfully, began to go bad. It's the day in which a 
surplus magically became an enormous deficit. It's also the day in 
which we had a recession.

My Republican colleagues talk about job loss. Job loss was, of 
course, I thought, begun with a recession that started in 2007 and got 
worse and worse during 2008 and is only now beginning to moderate.

And not only did all those bad things happen on January 21, 2009--the 
bailout began, the TARP sprang full-blown, the deficits came, the war 
in Afghanistan turned south, but it was also the day in


which we had one of the worst outbreaks of illness in American history, 
mass amnesia on the part of the Republican Party, who forgot everything 
that had happened before.

Every single bailout now going on in America started under the Bush 
administration. In some cases, some of us thought we had to cooperate 
because the lack of regulation, the ideologically driven opposition to 
any regulation of derivatives, of subprime mortgages, of excessive 
leverage by banks; all of those things were Republican policy. And now, 
Members have said, that's their answer.



Leave it to the market, because if you try to regulate, you will kill 
the economy.

Well, Members who are impressed by that don't have to wait and listen 
to my Republican colleagues say it. Go back and read the Congressional 
Record from 1900 when they were saying that about Theodore Roosevelt 
and the antitrust, actually 1902, 1903.

Read what they said when Franklin Roosevelt set up the SEC during the 
1930s. Yes, we believe that there should be some regulation. We are 
told, leave it to the markets.

Leave it to AIG to sell as many credit default swaps as they want to 
without any ability to pay them back; leave it to people unregulated to 
sell subprime mortgages to people who shouldn't have them. Leave it to 
the rating agencies to then say to AIG, Hey, those are a great deals, 
buy them, or insure them, rather, through the people who bought them.

Do nothing about executive compensation. Do nothing about a salary 
structure that incentivizes excessive risk. Don't let the shareholders 
have a say. Now, one of my colleagues said, I guess the gentleman from 
Texas, that it is a bailout fund. No, there is not.

He talks about a bailout fund as if it were a reality. Here is the 
deal: we did have bailout starting with the TARP bill in September, 
which I voted for when the Bush administration, I think, said, look, as 
a result, not--they didn't say this--but as a result of lack of 
regulation, we were in a terrible crisis.

We, in this bill, end those. The authority that the Federal Reserve, 
George Bush's appointees to the Federal Reserve, they were all his, 
used to give money to AIG, that's abolished in our bill. Section 13.3 
will no longer allow them to do what they did with Bear Stearns or do 
with AIG.

It will allow a facility to be set up, and here we agree--the 
Republicans said the same thing in their bill--to provide for some 
liquidity for solvent institutions, but there is no more of the Federal 
Reserve doing what they did with AIG and Bear Stearns.

We do take a fund, not from the taxpayers, as we were asked to do by 
the Bush administration, and as I went along with, along with the 
Republican leadership of the House and the Senate--because I didn't 
think we had an option at that time to avert disaster--but we now with 
some time will assess the financial institutions for that fund. The 
fund is not used to bail out any failing institution.

The bill specifically says the money only comes to put that 
institution to death. There is nothing in here that allows a failing 
institution to be continued with Federal money. There is a dissolution 
fund, not a bailout fund; and it does say that it may be that to 
dissolve this in an orderly way, as opposed to Lehman Brothers, where 
you just had a flat bankruptcy, that you need to put some money into 
it, maybe pay off some of the States that would otherwise be hurt 
because they got into investments they shouldn't have gotten into. 
That's the only fund, so there is no bailout. The institution has died.

Here is another difference, though. The Republican bill does zero, 
proudly, does zero to prevent those institutions from getting to that 
point. The bill that we are putting forward says the regulators, as a 
systemic risk council, will monitor institutions and will monitor 
activity. If we see an institution getting to that point, we step in 
and say, raise your capital, stop selling CDSs, stop selling mortgages, 
giving mortgages to people who shouldn't get them, divest yourself of 
this or that.