# None
## `6162c74b5809e8064f9df578c2fa8638`
`Mr. RISCH â€” 21 December 2010`

---


Mr. RISCH. Madam President and fellow Senators, I bring you what I 
believe to be the first amendment to the resolution of ratification. We 
have had a number of amendments that have been to the actual treaty 
itself. We have listened to objection after objection that: Oh, my 
gosh, we can't possibly amend the treaty because if we do, we are going 
to have to sit down and talk to the Russians again.

We don't have to worry about that with this amendment. This is an 
amendment to the resolution of ratification. It will not require that 
we sit down with the Russians and negotiate. Frankly, I don't know what 
is wrong with that. Frankly, I think it is a good idea after all the 
problems that have been raised with the treaty. But, nonetheless, if 
that is an overriding concern, you can set that aside and listen to the 
merits of the amendment.

I have to tell my colleagues that part of this I bring as a matter of 
frustration. I have been involved with this for months, and I am so 
tired of hearing about accommodation after accommodation after 
accommodation to the Russians. It appears, before we even


started with this, the Russians said: Well, we are going to have to 
have in the preamble language that says missile defense is related to 
this, and we said no. We have to have the ability to protect our 
country and build missile defense. The Russians said it has to be in 
there. It is in there. The next thing we said: You know, for 40 years 
we have been doing this, and you guys have a 10-to-1 advantage over us 
on tactical weapons; that is, short-range weapons. We ought to talk 
about that because you want to talk about parity on strategic weapons. 
No, it can't be in there. We accommodated the Russians again. Every 
time we turn around and put out a problem here--just as we heard on 
this rail thing--every time we turn around and put out a problem that 
ought to be addressed, the people who are promoting this stand and 
apologize, they accommodate, they say it is OK, they overlook it, and 
we go on and on and on.

I am sitting here listening to this on the rails, and the one side 
says: Well, don't worry about it; they are never going to build this 
anyway. We pull up an article that says they are in the process of 
doing this. Well, yes, but don't worry about it because it is going to 
be counted anyway.

So I have something here that, hopefully, we are not going to 
apologize to the Russians for. We are not going to accommodate them. We 
are going to tell them that if you want a relationship with us, you 
have to be honest with us.

We all know, and it has been widely reported, that they cheat. They 
are serial cheaters. They cheated in virtually every agreement we have 
had with them. If we are going to have a relationship with them and 
press the restart button--and I think we should. We should press the 
reset button. We should have a decent relationship with them. But let's 
wipe the slate clean and let's start with the military equipment they 
have stolen from us. That is all this is about.

On August 8 of 2008, as we all know, the Russians invaded Georgia, 
and when they invaded Georgia, it was pretty much of a mismatch. They 
ran over the top of them, did a lot of bad things, and eventually there 
was a peace accord that was brokered by President Sarkozy, and the next 
amendment I have deals more in-depth with that.

But when they ran over the Georgians, the American military had just 
been there doing exercises with the Georgians because the Georgians 
were kind enough to engage with us and help us in Afghanistan. They 
were preparing to send troops to Afghanistan to help us. So we 
Americans went over there and we said: OK. We need to do some military 
exercises, engage in some joint training, so we can get you ready to go 
into Afghanistan. We are now preparing to leave. We have completed the 
exercises. We are preparing to leave. We obviously took a lot of our 
equipment over there, not the least of which were four American 
humvees. The four American humvees were shipped to a port in Georgia 
and were in the process of being shipped back to the United States. 
There is no argument that the title to these four humvees is with the 
people of the United States of America. They belong to me. They belong 
to you. They belong to the U.S. military. They belong to all of us.

The Russians, when they overran the Georgians and got to the seaport, 
found our humvees, and what did they do? Did they say: Well, yes, they 
belong to the Americans; we will put them on the boat that is supposed 
to go back to the United States? No. They said: We are going to take 
them, and they stole them. Today, they still have them.

The United States has asked for the four humvees back. But let me 
tell my colleagues where the four humvees are. If you want to see a 
picture of them, you can go to msn.com and search Georgia and humvees 
and you can see a picture of our humvees. Where are they? They are in 
the Russian Central Armed Forces Museum in Moscow, Russia. That is 
where our four humvees are. What are they doing there? They are on 
display as a war trophy, taken by the Russians as a war trophy. Well, 
we weren't engaged in that war.

So if we are going to have a good relationship with them, is it too 
much to ask to give us back the property they stole from us a little 
over 24 months ago?

So this is an easy one to vote for. I have had discussions with my 
good friend from Massachusetts. He said this isn't related. This is 
absolutely related. We are entering into a marriage on a very important 
issue.

Shouldn't we ask that they give us our stolen property back? And 
shouldn't they say: Yes, we want to set the reset button too. We want 
to hold hands and sing ''Kumbaya.'' We want to be friends.

Well, that is fine, but give us back our stolen military equipment.

That is all this asks for. It doesn't jeopardize the treaty; it just 
says it goes into force as soon as they give us our four humvees back.

I yield the floor.