# None
## `61cb1113eb6b9c3c636bf360f8b7a657`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN â€” 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Here is the point. We know the terrorists on 9/11 
struck New York, Washington, and Washington was probably intended 
again--the plane went down in Pennsylvania. But what was the single 
most devastating terrorist attack in the United States before 9/11? It 
was the bomb at the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, but 
Oklahoma City would not benefit from these amendments from the Senators 
from California and Illinois.

Let's go around the world. In 2001, a plot was uncovered by 
intelligence agencies to attack an American school in Singapore. In 
2002, in Bali, Indonesia, terrorists targeted a discotheque. In 2003, 
terrorists struck a residential compound in Riyahd. In 2004, terrorists 
targeted a school in Beslan. In October 2004, computer disks were 
discovered in Iraq at a known insurgent's home containing detailed 
floor layouts and evacuation routes for plans in various States in the 
United States of America.

This is the nature of the enemy. This is an inhumane but thinking 
enemy. They will strike where they determine we are most vulnerable. 
That is why we think, as a matter of elemental fairness but also sound 
and strong homeland security, that most of the money ought to go to the 
large States with the most visible, potential terrorist targets, but 
that some minimal amount ought to go to all States.

Senator Leahy would do that beyond what the bill does. Senator 
Feinstein and Senator Obama would reduce the amount most of the States 
would get under this proposal from what the committee bill recommends. 
That is why I strongly oppose the first two amendments that will come 
before us at around 5:30.

I yield the floor.