# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `61d491b2f34aaf357913d38fac621957`
`Mr. REED â€” 17 December 2010`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for the 
New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, also known as the New START 
treaty, which was signed by President Obama and Russian President 
Medvedev on April 8, 2010, and would replace the START treaty that 
expired on December 5, 2009.

As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I have had the 
opportunity to review the implications of this treaty over the course 
of five hearings and multiple briefings. I am convinced that 
ratification of this treaty is essential to the security of the United 
States, and not simply in the context of our relationship with Russia 
but also in our efforts to counter nuclear proliferation throughout the 
world.

As a starting point to consider this treaty, it is important to 
recognize that since December 5, 2009, when the START treaty expired, 
we have not had inspectors on the ground in Russia to monitor their 
nuclear weapons complex. It wasn't until December 2008 that the Bush 
administration and Russia agreed they wanted to replace START before it 
expired but acknowledged that the task would have to be left to the 
Obama administration, leaving them 1 year before the treaty was set to 
expire so they could begin these negotiations.

The reality is that we have not had a verification regime in place or 
inspectors on the ground in Russia for over a year, and every day that 
goes by without this treaty in place is another day that the United 
States lacks the ability to verify effectively and inspect Russia's 
strategic nuclear forces.

If the Senate rejects this treaty, it may be many years, if ever, 
before we once again have American inspectors on the ground in Russia.

President Obama stated:




 In the absence of START, without the New START treaty being 


 ratified by the Senate, we do not have a verification 


 mechanism to ensure that we know what the Russians are doing 


 . . . . And when you have uncertainty in the area of nuclear 


 weapons, that's a much more dangerous world to live in.


The bottom line is this: If you don't trust the Russians, then you 
should be voting for this treaty because that is the only way we are 
going to get, in a timely, effective way, American inspectors back on 
the ground looking at their nuclear complex.

There is another aspect. Without the New START treaty in place, there 
is additional strain on our intelligence network to monitor Russia's 
activities.

In his testimony to the Armed Services Committee, GEN Kevin Chilton, 
commander of STRATCOM, stated:




 Without New START, we would rapidly lose some of our 


 insight into Russian strategic nuclear force developments and 


 activities . . . we would be required increasingly to focus 


 low-density/high-demand intelligence collection and analysis 


 assets on Russian nuclear forces.


These intelligence assets include our satellites, which are already 
in high demand, particularly in our operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, 
as well as in emerging threat locations such as Yemen, Somalia, and the 
Pacific. Furthermore, these national technical means can never supplant 
the quality of intelligence gathered from onsite inspections by 
American weapons experts in verifying the quantity, type, and location 
of Russia's nuclear arsenal.

Dr. James Miller, Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for 
Policy, remarked:




 Onsite inspectors are a vital complement to the data that 


 the United States will receive under New START. They provide 


 the boots-on-the-ground presence to confirm the validity of 


 Russian data declarations and to add to our confidence and 


 knowledge regarding Russian strategic forces located at 


 facilities around the country.


The failure to ratify may present a significant operational cost to 
our efforts in the war on terrorism. To compensate for the lack of a 
treaty, our satellite assets could be shifted to maintain some coverage 
of Russia, which, in the short run, would deny the capability of 
looking at other places, such as Sudan or Yemen, where we know al-Qaida 
and its affiliates are establishing sanctuaries. In the longer term, we 
may consider putting up new satellites--a tremendous cost that would be 
difficult to bear in a continuing budget crisis and one that would not 
give us the same kind of information as having inspectors on the 
ground.

Let me emphasize this again. If this treaty goes unratified, if we 
don't have inspectors on the ground, then we must rely on our national 
technical means of verification, which is significantly satellites. 
Those are, as General Chilton said, high-demand assets. If they are 
being flown over Russia, I cannot conceive, if we let this treaty 
elapse over several years, that military commanders will feel confident 
in not putting more and more satellites over Russia. That takes away 
from efforts right now to monitor troubled spots around the globe, and 
it is a real cost to the failure to ratify this treaty.

Ratifying this treaty is also a vital part of our relationship with 
Russia. It is the essential element in the process of controlling 
nuclear weapons between the United States and Russia.

I wish to quote my esteemed colleague and manager on the other side, 
Senator Lugar, who has long been not only a leader in this effort but 
someone whose vision and actions already--particularly through his work 
with Senator Sam Nunn--have made this world a much safer place and one 
whose debt we are all in nationally. I thank him for that.

Senator Lugar stated:




 We should not be cavalier about allowing our relationship 


 with Moscow to drift or about letting our knowledge of 


 Russian weaponry atrophy.


He is right, as he has been on so many issues with respect to 
national and international policy.

This process has had a long history of bipartisan support--from the 
first formal agreements with the Soviet Union under the Carter 
administration that limited nuclear offensive and defensive weapons, 
through both terms of President Reagan's administration, which produced 
the original START treaty, to the overwhelming support of the Senate to 
ratify these important agreements. All of these agreements had strong, 
bipartisan support.

This treaty is an important part of renewing our relationship with 
Russia and will provide the foundation for future negotiations on other 
nuclear issues.



Ellen Tauscher, Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and 
International Security, stated:




 It's my calculation that we need to get this done now 


 because every day that we don't is a day that not only don't 


 we have boots on the ground, but it's also a day that we 


 can't move on to other parts of the agenda. This was the New 


 START Treaty, but it was also the start of the reset of the 


 relationship, and it is a very big agenda.


We have other issues to consider, such as tactical nuclear devices, 
which the Russians may have and former countries of the Soviet Union 
may have. We have a whole set of issues. We have issues with respect to 
Iran and North Korea. If we can ratify this treaty, we now have 
momentum to move forward on these other issues.

We all know the proliferation of nuclear weapons threatens more than 
the security of just Russia and the United States. Indeed, this treaty 
is central to the continuing need for a worldwide effort to control 
nuclear weapons. It is every President's worst nightmare that somewhere 
in the world a nuclear accident will occur, that a rogue state will 
attain nuclear capability or a nuclear weapon or materials will fall 
into the hands of a terrorist group. This treaty is an important step 
toward reducing the number of nuclear weapons around the world and 
demonstrates to the international community that the United States and 
Russia are committed to this goal.

If we don't ratify this agreement and don't continue this 40-year 
process of working with Russia on limiting nuclear weapons, how can we 
get them to assist us effectively in addressing the nuclear ambitions 
of North Korea and Iran? What credibility will we have among the 
international community to restrain Iran's development of nuclear 
weapons if it is perceived that we have abandoned our longlasting, 
long-term, and mutually beneficial attempts with the Russians to limit 
our nuclear weapons?

We must do everything possible to counter proliferation through 
protection, containment, interdiction, and a host of different 
programs.

I again quote Senator Lugar:




 This process must continue if we are to answer the 


 existential threat posed by the proliferation of weapons of 


 mass destruction.


Every missile destroyed, every warhead deactivated, and every 
inspection implemented makes us safer. Russia and the United States 
have a choice whether to continue this effort, and that choice is 
embodied in the New START treaty.

We also understand, too, that as long as we have nuclear weapons, we 
have to have an effective nuclear arsenal. In its fiscal year 2011 
budget, the Obama administration requested $7 billion for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration--NNSA--which overseas the U.S. nuclear 
complex. This request is about 10 percent more than the previous year's 
budget. That is a significant increase for any department in this 
government, particularly as we face challenging economic times and an 
increased deficit.

Indeed, Linton Brooks, the former NNSA Administrator under President 
George W. Bush, said: ''I'd have killed for that budget and that much 
high-level attention in the administration.''

So the issue of dealing with our nuclear arsenal is being addressed 
with more energy and more resources and more attention than it was in 
the preceding administration, and I don't think that argument can be 
used as an attempt to delay the ratification of this treaty.

Many have argued that before we consider this treaty, we must commit 
to substantial funding increases in the future budgets to modernize the 
nuclear infrastructure. We are doing that. While I support the need to 
ensure a safer, more reliable nuclear arsenal--and I applaud the Obama 
administration's efforts to commit significant resources to do so--we 
have to recognize this is a recent change. In fact, the Obama 
administration is not only bringing this treaty to the Senate, it also 
is bringing to the Congress a level of commitment that was lacking 
previously. I think both of those are necessary, both of those mutually 
reinforce one another and, together, are strong support for the 
ratification of this treaty.

During an Armed Services Committee hearing in July, I asked Directors 
of the national labs about the significant commitment of resources this 
administration has made to the nuclear enterprise. Dr. George Miller, 
the Director of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, responded:




 It is clearly a major step in the right direction. The 


 budget has been declining since about 2005 . . . and this 


 represents a very important and very significant turnaround.


The Obama administration has also outlined an $85 billion, 10-year 
plan for NNSA's nuclear weapons activities, which includes an 
additional $4.1 billion in spending for fiscal years 2012 through 2016. 
The $85 billion represents a 21-percent rise above the fiscal year 2011 
spending level. As Secretary of Defense Robert Gates wrote in his 
preface to the April 2010 Nuclear Posture Review:




 These investments, and the NPR's strategy for warhead life 


 extension, represent a credible modernization plan necessary 


 to sustain the nuclear infrastructure and support our 


 Nation's deterrent.


Ratifying this treaty presents us with the opportunity to recommit 
ourselves to preserving and reinvesting in our nuclear enterprise, 
including the highly trained workforce, which is so necessary. But 
again, ratifying this treaty is such an essential part of our national 
security that it both complements and, in some cases, transcends simply 
reinvesting in our modernization efforts. But we are doing that, and 
that should give comfort, I think, to those who see that as an issue, 
which may--and I don't think so--present some inhibition in ratifying 
this treaty.

In all the discussions we have had on the content of this treaty, we 
have often failed to note the caliber and professionalism of the 
American negotiators who have worked tirelessly on this treaty. This 
elite cadre of experts have devoted their lives to serving our Nation 
in promoting nuclear arms control and doing it from very wise, very 
experienced, and I think very critical notions of what is necessary to 
protect the United States because that is their first and foremost 
responsibility.

This impressive team consisted of State Department negotiators, 
representatives from the Department of Defense's Joint Staff, and from 
STRATCOM, our military command that is responsible for all these 
nuclear devices. Most of them took part in the development of START I 
and the subsequent treaties. They have had the experience of years and 
years of dealing with the Russians, of understanding the strengths and 
the weaknesses of our approaches. They captured the lessons learned on 
what we need to know about the Russian nuclear enterprise and the best 
means of achieving our national strategic objectives.

This was not the labor of amateurs, this was the work of people who 
have devoted their lifetime to try to develop an effective nuclear 
regime involving inspections and verification, and they know more about 
what the Russians do and vice versa than anyone else. They were at the 
heart of these negotiations. Many of the principles behind these 
treaties are, as a result, complex and nuanced. Most Americans, 
frankly--and, indeed, many of our colleagues--don't have the means to 
invest the time to become versed in the technical aspect of launchers, 
telemetry, and verification regimes. These individuals have spent their 
lives doing that. We are quite fortunate they have committed themselves 
to this enterprise and that they have produced this treaty.

Furthermore, former Secretaries of State and Defense from both 
Republican and Democratic administrations and military commanders, 
including seven previous commanders of STRATCOM these are the military 
officers whose professional lives have been devoted to protecting 
America and commanding every unit that has a nuclear capability--have 
all urged us to support this START treaty. That is a very, I think, 
strong endorsement as to the effectiveness of this treaty and the need 
for this treaty. All of them understand this is in our best national 
security interest.

Again, all the commanders, all the individuals who have spent every 
waking hour and, indeed, probably sleepless nights, thinking about 
their responsibilities for nuclear weapons and their use, consider this 
treaty essential. That, I think, should be strong evidence for its 
ratification.

As I mentioned before, the New START treaty builds upon decades of


diplomacy and agreements between the United States and Russia. The New 
START treaty is appropriately structured to address the present 
conditions of our nuclear enterprise and national security interests, 
while building on the lessons we have learned from decades of previous 
treaty negotiations, from decades of implementing past treaties, of 
finding out what works on the ground, and setting nonproliferation 
goals for the future. It is important to understand how we got to this 
point today.

The United States and the Soviet Union signed their first formal 
agreements limiting nuclear offensive and defensive weapons in May 
1972. The Strategic Arms Limitation Talks--known as SALT--produced two 
agreements--the Interim Agreement on Certain Measures with Respect to 
the Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms and the Treaty on the 
Limitation of Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems. In 1979, these agreements 
were followed by the signing of the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty--
known as SALT II--which sought to codify equal limits on U.S. and 
Soviet strategic offensive nuclear forces. However, President Carter 
eventually withdrew this treaty from Senate consideration due to the 
Soviet's invasion of Afghanistan.

Throughout the 1980s, the Reagan administration participated in 
negotiations on the development of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear 
Forces--INF--Treaty, which was ultimately signed in 1988. At the 
negotiations, the Reagan administration called for a ''double zero'' 
option, which would eliminate all short- as well as long-range INF 
systems, a position that, at the time, was viewed by most observers as 
unattractive to the Soviets.

President Reagan also worked extensively to reduce the number of 
nuclear warheads, which led to the signing by President George Herbert 
Walker Bush of the initial START treaty in 1991. Again, the work of 
President Reagan, and the work of President George Herbert Walker Bush 
all led to the historic START I treaty. It limited long-range nuclear 
forces--land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles--ICBMs 
submarine-launched ballistic missiles--SLBMs and heavy bombers. START 
also contained a complex verification regime. Both sides collected most 
of the information needed to verify compliance with their own 
satellites and remote sensing equipment--known as the national 
technical means of verification.


But the parties also used data exchanges, notifications, and onsite 
inspections to gather information about forces and activities limited 
by the treaty. Taken together, these measures were designed to provide 
each nation with the ability to deter and detect militarily significant 
violations. The verification regime and the cooperation needed to 
implement many of these measures instilled confidence and encouraged 
openness among the signatories.

The original START treaty was ratified by the Senate in October 1992 
by a vote of 93 to 6. We are building literally on the pathbreaking 
work of President Ronald Reagan and President George Herbert Walker 
Bush in limiting these classes of systems, using a national means of 
technology, and putting inspectors on the ground. I find it ironic that 
we might be at the stage of turning our back on all that work, of 
walking away from a bipartisan consensus--93 to 6. I don't think that 
would be in the best interest of this country.

In January 1993, the United States and Russia signed START II, which 
would further limit warheads. After some delay, the treaty eventually 
received approval by the Senate in January 1996, but it never entered 
into force, mainly because of the U.S. withdrawal from the ABM Treaty 
in June 2002. But, once again, there was another effort along these 
same lines to limit the numbers of launchers and warheads, and in that 
same spirit today we have this New START treaty before us.

During a summit meeting with President Putin in November 2001, 
President George W. Bush announced that the United States would reduce 
its operationally deployed strategic nuclear warheads to a level 
between 1,700 and 2,200 warheads during the decade. He stated the 
United States would reduce its forces unilaterally without signing a 
formal agreement. However, President Putin indicated Russia wanted to 
use a formal arms control process, emphasizing the two sides should 
focus on ''reaching a reliable and verifiable agreement'' and a 
''legally binding document.'' Yet the Bush administration wanted to 
maintain the flexibility to size and structure its nuclear forces in 
response to its own needs and preferred a less formal process.

The United States and Russia ultimately did sign the Strategic 
Offensive Reductions Treaty, also known as the Moscow Treaty, on May 
24, 2002. The Senate ratified the treaty on March 6, 2003, by a vote of 
95 to 0; and the Russian Duma approved the treaty also. Once again, a 
high-level arms treaty negotiated by President George W. Bush with the 
Russians came to this floor and was unanimously approved.

In mid-2006, the United States and Russia began to discuss their 
options for arms control after START. However, the two countries were 
unable to agree on a path forward. Neither side wanted to extend START 
in its original form. Russia wanted to replace START with a new treaty 
that would further reduce deployed forces while using many of the same 
definitions and counting rules in START. The Bush administration 
initially did not want to negotiate a new treaty but would have been 
willing to extend some of the START monitoring provisions. President 
Bush and President Putin agreed at the Sochi summit in April 2008 they 
would proceed with negotiating a new, legally binding treaty. As I 
mentioned before, it wasn't until December 2008 that the two sides 
agreed to replace START before it expired but acknowledged this task 
would fall to the Obama administration. This administration took that 
work seriously and diligently and produced a treaty and now it is not 
only our opportunity but I think our obligation to ratify the treaty.

Some of my colleagues have already described measures in the New 
START treaty. Let me suggest some of the important details.

Under the New START treaty, the United States and Russia must reduce 
the number of their strategic arms within 7 years from the date the 
treaty enters into force. This treaty sets a limit of 1,550 deployed 
strategic warheads. All warheads on deployed ICBMs and deployed SLBMs 
count toward this limit and each deployed heavy bomber equipped for 
nuclear armaments counts as one warhead toward the limit. This limit is 
74 percent lower than the limit of the 1991 START treaty.

Again, let me stop and say, I think if you asked every American the 
question: Would we be safer with fewer nuclear warheads in the 
strategic forces of Russia and the United States, the answer would be 
yes. I think people all recognize the potential danger of the existence 
of more than enough nuclear weapons to wreak havoc if they were somehow 
launched.


The New START treaty also sets a limit of 800 deployed and 
nondeployed ICBM launchers, SLBM launchers, and heavy bombers--which 
are warheads but also launching systems--puts separate limits on 
deployed ICBMs and deployed SLBMs and deployed heavy bombers. The 
limit, again, is less than half the limit established by the 1991 START 
treaty for deployed delivery vehicles. The sooner we ratify this 
treaty, the sooner these limitations will be in place and can be 
enforced.

We are at a point, I think, where we can continue the progress that 
began--the breakthrough, really, that began with President Reagan, 
President George Herbert Walker Bush, and, to a degree at least in 
spirit, carried on with the Moscow Treaty by President George W. Bush, 
and now can be ratified with legally binding terms in this New START 
treaty. Once ratified, the new START treaty will be in force for 10 
years unless superseded by a subsequent agreement, and of course the 
United States and Russia have the option to extend the treaty for a 
period of no more than 5 years and there are withdrawal clauses if we 
believe our national security requires such a withdrawal. Furthermore, 
the 2002 Moscow Treaty will terminate with the adoption of this START 
treaty.

Like the first START treaty, the New START treaty establishes a 
complex verification and transparency regime that will guard against 
cheating and will enable the United States to monitor Russia's 
compliance with the treaty's terms.



The treaty's verification measures build on the lessons learned 
during the 15 years of implementing the 1991 START treaty and adds new 
elements tailored to the limitations of this treaty and to the 
application of this treaty.

Indeed, Assistant Secretary of State Rose Gottemoeller, the head of 
the U.S. negotiating delegation, stated, ''Much was learned over the 15 
years in which the START treaty verification regime was implemented, 
and the United States and Russia sought to take advantage of that 
knowledge in formulating the verification regime for the new treaty--
seeking to maintain elements which proved useful, to include new 
measures where necessary, improve those measures that were an 
unnecessary drag on our strategic forces, and eliminate those that were 
not essential for verifying the obligations of the New START treaty.''

These verification measures include onsite inspections--which we do 
not have at the moment--data exchanges--which we do not have at the 
moment--and notifications as well as provisions to facilitate the use 
of national technical means for treaty monitoring. To increase 
confidence and transparency, the treaty also provides for the exchange 
of telemetry information.

Under the terms of the treaty, the parties are required to exchange 
data on the numbers, locations, and technical characteristics of 
deployed and nondeployed strategic arms that are subject to the treaty. 
The parties also agreed to assign and exchange unique identification 
numbers for each deployed and nondeployed ICBM, SLBM, and nuclear-
capable heavy bomber. We literally now will have the serial numbers 
with which we can monitor their systems. The treaty also establishes a 
notification regime to track the movement and changes in status of 
strategic arms. Through these notifications and the unique 
identification numbers, the United States will be better able to 
monitor the status of Russian arms throughout their life cycle.

The New START treaty will also allow each nation up to 18 onsite 
inspections each year. These inspections will include deployed and 
nondeployed systems at operating bases, as well as nondeployed systems 
at storage sites, test ranges, and conversion/elimination facilities. 
These onsite inspections will help verify and confirm the information 
provided in the data exchanges and notifications, ensuring that Russia 
is staying within the numbers of the treaty.

Some have asked why have a treaty if Russia is allowed to cheat? It 
is important to remind ourselves of several points. First, because of 
its commitment under the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, Russia has 
already been operating under tighter constraints than the United 
States. They are signatories to the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. In 
1996, President Clinton and President Yeltsin signed the Comprehensive 
Test Ban Treaty. The Russian Duma approved the treaty in 2000, but we 
have yet to ratify the treaty, so Russia, indeed, is operating under 
more constraints with respect to comprehensive testing than we are.

Second, over a year has passed since the expiration of the original 
START treaty. Again, since that time there have been no verifications, 
no inspections, no process in place to work with Russia.

It seems ironic to me that people who are worrying about signing a 
treaty and having the Russians cheat are not preoccupied with what the 
Russians are doing today, since we can't verify. It does not seem to me 
to make sense to say the way you can eliminate the treaty is eliminate 
the laws so they cannot cheat.

Again, I think the logic as well as the history as well as the 
details of this treaty are so compelling and persuasive that we have to 
ratify this treaty.

Under Secretary of State Ellen Tauscher stated also:




 The urgency to verify the treaty is because we currently 


 lack verification measures with Russia. The longer that goes 


 on, the more opportunity there is for misunderstanding and 


 mistrust.


There is a letter to Senator Kerry addressing concerns about cheating 
from Secretary Gates. Let me at this point commend the Senator from 
Massachusetts for his extraordinary leadership on this issue. No one 
knows more about the details of this treaty, the ramifications, the 
nuances than Senator Kerry. No one has been more articulate, no one has 
talked with more wisdom, more experience, and more compelling logic 
than the Senator from Massachusetts when it comes to ratification of 
this treaty. For his leadership, I thank him. Thank you, Senator.

But Secretary Gates wrote to Senator Kerry to remind him that:




 [T]he survivable and flexible U.S. strategic posture 


 planned for New START will help deter any future Russian 


 leaders from cheating or breakout from the treaty, should 


 they ever have such an inclination.


Finally, ratifying the New START treaty will actually provide the 
right incentive structure to prevent cheating rather than to encourage 
it.

Let me conclude. Let me again remind my colleagues that this treaty 
will provide a significantly increased degree of certainty in a very 
uncertain world. It will continue our relationship with Russia, one 
that we forged over decades and one that we must use--not just for our 
mutual benefit but to act against even more pressing threats such as 
North Korea, such as Iran, and such as thousands of other emerging 
threats over the next several years.

This treaty will allow us to advance our counterproliferation 
initiatives across the globe. As such, I urge my colleagues to support 
ratification of the New START treaty.

I yield the floor.