# IN HONOR OF NAVY SEAL CHIEF PETTY OFFICER ADAM BROWN
## `630f8687b61ef43ee6e072a08871d2a8`
`Mr. ROSS â€” 23 March 2010`

---


Mr. ROSS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a true American hero. 
On March 18, 2010, our state and nation lost a great patriot when Navy 
SEAL Chief Petty Officer Adam Brown, age 36, died in Afghanistan from 
injuries sustained during combat operations in support of Operation 
Enduring Freedom.

Chief Brown was raised in Arkansas by his loving parents, Larry and 
Janice Brown, and graduated from Lake Hamilton High School in Hot 
Springs. Chief Brown also attended Arkansas Tech University in 
Russellville where he played football. Although I never had the honor 
to meet Chief Brown, I extend my deepest condolences on behalf of all 
Arkansans to his family, friends, colleagues, and acquaintances for 
this devastating loss.

Chief Brown enlisted in the U.S. Navy in 1998 and joined the Navy 
SEALs in 2001. Since that time, he has been assigned to various East 
Coast-based SEAL teams where he made several combat deployments in 
support of the global war on terror, distinguishing himself during 
numerous combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. He carried out his 
duties with pride in his country and without reservation, and each of 
us owes him our eternal gratitude for his selfless sacrifice.

Chief Brown was a highly-decorated combat veteran and received 
numerous awards and citations during his 12-year Navy career, including 
the Bronze Star with combat ''V'' distinguishing device; Purple Heart; 
Joint Service Commendation Medal with combat ''V'' distinguishing 
device; Joint Service Achievement Medal; five Navy and Marine Corps 
Achievement Medals; three Good Conduct Medals; the National Defense 
Service Medal; Afghanistan Campaign Medal; Iraq Campaign Medal; 
Marksmanship medals for both rifle and pistol; and a multitude of 
personal, unit, and campaign decorations.

My deepest thoughts and prayers are with his loving wife and two 
children who live in Virginia Beach, Virginia; his parents, and the 
rest of his family during this extraordinarily difficult time.

Our nation is safer and stronger because of brave heroes like Chief 
Brown. Today, I ask all members of Congress to join me as we honor the 
life of Navy SEAL Chief Petty Officer Adam Brown and his legacy, as 
well as each man and woman in our armed forces who give the ultimate 
sacrifice in service to our great country.
