# FISCAL IRRESPONSIBILITY
## `63113cdb91377efdefd8443bd742c8db`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN â€” 17 December 2007`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. And that is what we will hear from our constituents.

And the list goes on and on, as you can see. I have got plenty of 
pages that we could flip through. We even have title X and family 
planning money that is increased by $300 million. And I find it so very 
interesting that they go in and they increase the title X and the 
Family Planning money, but guess what? What they didn't do was to 
increase the money for the abstinence education program. Now, how about 
that, Mr. Speaker? That funding was held level. It was held level. And 
Family Planning and Planned Parenthood will get big increases, but 
abstinence education will not.

Well, Mr. Speaker, as I have said several times tonight, budgets are 
about priorities. Budget documents tell you where you want your 
emphasis to be. And what we see from this majority is a budget process 
that is broken, with priorities that are broken, and promises that are 
broken. And we have a 3,565-page bill that weighs 34.4 pounds when you 
print it out. It contains over 9,200 earmarks. There are lots of pet 
projects, lots of pork in this big Santa sack. What is missing is 
funding for the troops on the ground in Iraq.

I find it very sad, very sad indeed, that it is the men and women who 
defend this great Nation who are left out in the cold this 
Christmastime. They are the ones that should be at the very


top of the list, Mr. Speaker. We should think of them first. We should 
honor them in the way that we do our jobs. We are a Nation at war. We 
know that. That is something I think most people in this body agree 
with. And we pass a budget that does not include them and does not 
include the funding to meet their needs.

Mr. Speaker, you and I would not be able to stand in this Chamber and 
have this debate if it were not for the men and women of the U.S. 
military. We should honor them. They should have been Title I, Page 1. 
And instead they are nowhere to be found in 3,565 pages. That is a 
serious oversight.

And, once again, we can talk about all the other things. We can talk 
about the illegal immigrants being able to get funding for attorneys. 
We can talk about roadblocks to having the borders secured, things that 
are purposely placed there; but the most egregious oversight is the 
fact that it does not fund our troops.

As I close, I will say God bless those troops. God bless their 
families. And, Mr. Speaker, my prayer is that this House will reverse 
itself and will put them first in this budget document.
