# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT OF 2009
## `63279babbdc60c0a0cbe600595ead251`
`Mrs. BOXER â€” 19 November 2009`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I rise today in opposition to amendment 
No.


2785 to the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 
2009.

This is a deeply flawed amendment that may hurt certain veterans of 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. And for that reason, I must vote 
against it.

Severely injured or disabled veterans often need someone to care for 
them in the home. The family members of these veterans often shoulder 
the burden of this care, which can take a significant financial, 
psychological and emotional toll. This bill would provide a family 
member caregiver with health care, counseling, support and a monthly 
stipend.

But amendment No. 2785 actually seeks to shut certain Iraq and 
Afghanistan veterans out of this new benefit by mandating that only 
those who require ''hospitalization, nursing home care, or other 
residential care'' are eligible.

The Wounded Warrior Project characterized the impact of the amendment 
as such, stating that it would ''set a much higher bar'' by requiring 
that the ''veteran be so helpless as to require institutional care if 
personal care were not available.''

This would potentially shut out veterans suffering from severe mental 
illness, or those learning to adapt to life at home with blindness or 
amputations.

The Disabled American Veterans also echoed this concern as a reason 
for opposing this amendment, writing that the amendment's ''new 
restrictive eligibility language could actually reduce the number of 
severely wounded and disabled veterans returning home from the wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan eligible for such services.''

For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to defeat this amendment, 
which is also opposed by the American Legion, the Iraq and Afghanistan 
Veterans of America and Swords to Plowshares.

It is long past time to pass the underlying bill. This legislation is 
too important to our veterans to sit in Congress because of the stall 
tactics of one lone senator.

It includes important health care improvements for women veterans 
including requiring the Department of Veterans Affairs to train mental 
health care specialists on how to better treat military sexual trauma. 
It also implements pilot programs to provide child care to women 
veterans who require medical care.

In addition, the bill includes two important provisions from 
bipartisan legislation that I authored with Senator Bond.

The first gives active duty servicemembers access to vet centers, 
which are community-based counseling centers run by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs where veterans can receive mental health care 
services.

The second provision authorizes vet centers to counsel former 
servicemembers on their rights to present their medical records for 
review to ensure that the discharge process they underwent was fair. 
This is particularly important for servicemembers who may have been 
discharged improperly with a personality disorder and therefore are not 
entitled to benefits when in fact they suffer from a combat-related 
condition such as post-traumatic stress disorder.

We owe our veterans an enormous debt of gratitude, and the best 
possible treatment and care for injuries sustained in service to our 
country. This bill is an important step toward fulfilling that 
obligation.