# None
## `63ab73a7e06b3645e2b6f4a4979ecb9f`
`Mr. BRADY of Texas â€” 22 April 2009`

---


Mr. BRADY of Texas. Congressman Carter, thank you for your leadership 
on this issue.

Look at the board that you're standing next to. They are basically 
saying--our government is saying that right-wing extremists in the 
United States fall into two groups: those who hate others, hate-
oriented groups, and those who are anti-government. So those who hate 
people and those who just don't think we ought to have a big 
government--according to our Department of Homeland Security--there is 
no difference. None. What kind of country are we becoming?

I, like you, was in front and participated in two of our TEA parties 
in Montgomery County. Hundreds of people attended downtown Conroe, 
thousands in the Woodlands at Creekside Park waiting hours to get to 
the park. Average people. Americans. The type that built this country.

I took a good look at this crowd and didn't see an extremist in the 
bunch. And don't you know I was looking for it after reading all about 
Secretary Napolitano's memo who paints them as the new national 
security threat in our country.

But let me tell you what I did see. I saw Americans who are fed up 
with the government spending their money hand-over-fist, Americans who 
live within their means and pay taxes to a government that, starting 
this Saturday, will run out of money for the entire year. We just paid 
our taxes on the 15th. The government is already out of money, living 
on a credit card. They are asking why. What is extremist about that?

I saw Americans who want secure borders, Americans who welcome 
immigrants who are seeking a better life. They are just asking that 
they come in through the front door of legal immigration rather than 
the back door of illegal immigration, just like generations of 
Americans before them.

I saw veterans, veterans from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, veterans 
home from Iraq and Afghanistan. They didn't look extreme or maladjusted 
or dangerous. They looked concerned for a country they put their lives 
on the line for. As Mrs. Bachmann said, they put their lives on the 
line. And now this country is at a crossroads, and these veterans who 
are willing to fight for it overseas, they are also willing to fight 
for their country here at home by speaking out. And my brother, who I 
am so proud of, a master sergeant in the Army, served in Iraq, has been 
deployed overseas as well, he's not extremist. He's my hero.



And I would say that goes for every family that has someone who 
served in our wars; they are not the threat to America, man, they are 
the solution for America.

I think Americans are waking up all across this country--we saw this 
this past week--they want to know if Congress, they want to know if 
Washington hears them. And it seems to me that not only do they not 
believe they are extreme, they believe the Constitution gives them the 
right to disagree, respectfully and forcefully, with their government, 
that the Constitution actually allows them to question these decisions, 
to question reports like you, Congressman Carter, have brought to 
light, rightfully so. They want and are speaking out for lower taxes. 
They are speaking out for families. They are speaking out for the 
unborn. They want all the rights afforded them in the Constitution 
under the Bill of Rights, including the right to keep and bear arms, 
and they simply ask that it be protected.

In case anyone hasn't noticed, there are a lot of people in America 
who think that solutions to our country come from individuals, 
families, neighborhoods, local communities, even States. And they don't 
get anointed from Washington and then passed on to--Washington doesn't 
know best. And just because people believe in those rights, they 
shouldn't be labeled as extremists.

The Secretary's comments were offensive. She apologized to veterans, 
sort of.