# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `64ae9998c992274cbfd16524e620c8d2`
`Mr. BROWN â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, in November, voters in my State of Ohio and 
across this Nation shouted from the ballot box: The Iraq war must end. 
They demanded we refocus our efforts on securing our homeland so that 
the darkest day in our Nation's history, 
9/11, is never repeated. With Democrats in control of Congress this 
session, we immediately began to work to end the war. We set out to 
implement the full recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, 
recommendations that will go a long way toward making our country 
safer.

By working to end the war in Iraq and passing the commission's 
recommendations, we are executing a strategy to combat terrorism. Make 
no mistake, ending the war in Iraq is a counterterrorism strategy. 
Global terrorist attacks have increased sevenfold since we invaded 
Iraq--sevenfold. Unfortunately and tragically, our continued engagement 
in Iraq is the best thing that ever happened to jihadist recruitment.

Democrats brought to this Chamber not just one piece of legislation 
to redeploy our troops out of Iraq but many. And each time, every time, 
either Republicans defeated the measure in Congress by threatening 
filibuster or the President vetoed it in the White House--each time, 
every time.

Two days ago, the President was in my State in Cleveland trying to 
buy more time for this war. The President has yet to define 
''victory.'' He has yet to tell us how many years it will take


to achieve whatever his definition of ''victory'' is. Will we be in 
Iraq for 5 more years, for 10 more years, for 15 more years? Will more 
thousands of U.S. service men and women die, tens of thousands? The 
President has yet to hold himself and his administration accountable 
for fomenting a civil war and breeding more global terrorism.

The President is proud of his stubbornness. He should be ashamed.

The path he is wed to has simultaneously increased the threat of 
terrorism and reduced our Nation's capacity to protect against it. 
Stubbornness is not leadership. Defensiveness is not leadership. 
Finger-pointing is not leadership. Supporting the President's strategy 
in Iraq because you support the President is not leadership. Lives are 
at stake. Our homeland security is at stake. Global stability and 
security are at stake.

Yesterday we learned that al-Qaida is at pre-9/11 strength. That is 
frightening news, and it is cause for outrage because it did not have 
to be that way, and it does not have to be that way.

We learned yesterday that the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan 
is fostering the next generation of al-Qaida at an alarming rate. What 
kind of signal exactly does the President and his supporters think we 
send by failing to secure the region where we know al-Qaida lives and 
trains and plans, according to military analysts, with relative 
freedom--the same region that served as the breeding ground for global 
terrorism through al-Qaida before 9/11, the same region we now know 
that al-Qaida trained in for the deadliest attack on our Nation's soil, 
the same region where Osama bin Laden, the mastermind behind 9/11, is 
believed to be hiding, free to plot the next attack on our homeland.


Over the objection of military advisers, the 9/11 Commission, and the 
voice of a nation, the President stubbornly insists upon staying the 
course with a failed policy in Iraq. Staying the course with the 
President's failed Iraq policy hasn't forced our Government to take its 
eye off the ball, it has caused us to drop it.

Prior to World War II, the French built the Maginot Line, assuming 
this line would prevent Germany from attacking France. History proved 
the French wrong. The President's strategy in Iraq is the Maginot Line 
of the 21st century. It imperils our Nation by mistakenly focusing our 
attention in the wrong direction.

We have dropped the ball on capturing Osama bin Laden. We have 
dropped the ball on securing Afghanistan. We have dropped the ball on 
implementing the 9/11 Commission recommendations. Anyone who thinks 
those aren't signals al-Qaida is paying close attention to is sorely 
mistaken.

Supporting the President's policy doesn't just fail to effectively 
target terrorism, it puts a bull's-eye squarely on our Nation. Ending 
the war in Iraq isn't just about bringing our troops home. It isn't 
just about ensuring veterans get the health care and the benefits they 
have long been denied. It isn't just about a new direction in our 
foreign policy. It is about returning our focus to where it must be if 
our Nation, our communities, and our families are to remain safe. 
Ending the war in Iraq is about reengaging in full force on the war on 
terror.

I applaud my Republican friends who have chosen to stand up to the 
President. More and more of them have taken steps of bravery with every 
vote we bring to the floor. But it is not enough. With every lost vote, 
we add more lives to the list of the men and women lost in Iraq. With 
every lost vote, we empower al-Qaida.

In the Senate, those of us committed to ending this war of choice and 
securing our Nation will keep fighting to end the war. I appreciate the 
leadership of Senator Webb, of Senator Hagel, Senator Reid, and Senator 
Levin, all of whom have shown courageous leadership on this crisis of a 
generation. Together, we are going to change this policy. The safety of 
every American depends on it.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.