# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `651b77b47c06f733635c0952d956217c`
`Mr. BENNET â€” 14 July 2009`

---


Mr. BENNET. Madam President, I rise to speak in support of the Levin-
McCain amendment to strike excessive funding in this bill for the F-22. 
I want to briefly outline why this amendment is in the best interests 
of our national defense and our fiscal future.

This amendment represents the best of leadership that our Nation has 
to offer. Senator McCain and President Obama have put political parties 
aside and have acted to protect taxpayers at a time when our fiscal 
circumstances require us to make difficult choices. And Chairman Levin 
has supported their efforts. They are willing to make hard choices. 
Congress must follow their wise leadership.

The media has reported that our budget deficit now exceeds $1 
trillion. We have provided middle class tax cuts, first-time homebuyer 
tax credits and invested resources in order to turn this economy 
around. But we have to reexamine our other spending choices and say no 
to excessive spending. The F-22 embodies spending to an excess, and it 
borrows from key operations and maintenance and personnel accounts to 
do so.

The Secretary of Defense, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and 
our Commander-in-Chief have said we do not need any more F-22s. In 
fact, they say that the costs of acquiring and maintaining these 
aircraft, which have ballooned far beyond the Pentagon's original 
estimates, are hindering our ability to make much-needed investments in 
other necessary programs.

It is not only the Obama administration. President Bush and Secretary 
Rumsfeld also agreed that this is an area where we can show restraint 
and help strained taxpayers. The Levin-McCain amendment is the right 
policy for the country--armed services leadership and Presidents from 
both parties agree.

We should be listening when the Air Force tells us that the 187 F-22s 
that we have are enough. Our President has shown the wisdom to listen 
to our uniformed leaders. Now only Congress stands in the way of saving 
taxpayers $1.75 billion.

The F-22 has never supported a single mission in Iraq or Afghanistan. 
It is time to reassert the actual military priorities of today. It is 
true that the F-22 supports jobs, sprinkled around our nation. But we 
need to focus on weapons programs that create jobs an also serve a 
modern military purpose. As the chairman and ranking member of the 
Senate Armed Services Committee have said, the F-35 represents the 
future of our fighter fleet. As we look to the future, I simply cannot 
lend my support to this effort to allow unnecessary expansion of a 
program at the expense of the American and Coloradan taxpayer.

There are far more useful ways to create and maintain jobs that 
actually enhance our military readiness. Phasing out expansion of the 
F-22 fleet will


allow needed funding to be reallocated to more important, pressing 
needs of our military. Let's pass a Defense authorization bill actually 
contains the requests that our military has made. Madam President, 
$1.75 billion for the F-22 has not been requested, and I agree with 
Chairman Levin, Senator McCain, Presidents Obama and Bush.

I urge my colleagues to join in this effort to show fiscal restraint. 
Support the Levin-McCain amendment. The best way to defend our country 
is to listen to our military when it tells us to change the way we 
invest. Our fiscal health and our national security both depend on it.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.