# None
## `65575031bb5cef7be0dfbb1f8ed83cdf`
`Mrs. HALVORSON â€” 30 March 2009`

---


Mrs. HALVORSON. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of passage of the Veterans' 
Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2009, H.R. 1513, which 
was introduced by one of the newer members of the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs, and sure to be one of our body's most dynamic 
Members, Mrs. Kirkpatrick from Arizona. And I thank you for your 
leadership on the bill.

I also want to thank the ranking member of the Committee on Veterans' 
Affairs, Mr. Buyer, who has been supportive of this noncontroversial 
bill and helped with its unanimous passage from our committee to allow 
consideration by the full House. The fact that we were able to get this 
bill to the floor within nearly a month of its introduction shows the 
House leadership's commitment to our Nation's veterans, their families, 
and their survivors.

Like it has done since 1976, Congress, through the passage of this 
measure, would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase the 
rates of basic compensation for disabled veterans and the rates of 
dependency and indemnity compensation, the DIC, to their survivors and 
dependents, along with other benefits in order to keep pace with the 
rising cost of living.

The disability COLA would become effective December 1, 2009, and will 
be equal to that provided on an annual basis to Social Security 
recipients. Last year, the COLA was set at 5.8 percent, an increase 
direly needed, as the financial crush of the recession from the 
previous administration closed in on many of our disabled veterans' 
households.

Madam Speaker, this bill will benefit each disabled veteran and their 
survivors from the World War I era through the current conflicts in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

Many of the nearly 3 million veterans who receive these benefits 
depend upon these tax-free payments, not only to provide for their own 
basic needs, but for those of their spouses, children and parents as 
well. Without an annual COLA increase, these veterans and their 
families would see the value of their hard-earned benefits slowly 
erode. We would be derelict in our duty if we failed to guarantee that 
those who sacrifice so much for our country receive benefits and 
services that keep pace with their needs.

We fund the war. Let's fund the warrior and his family and survivors 
by ensuring that their benefits keep pace with their living expenses. 
Let's ensure that their benefits make ends meet at the end of the 
month.

Madam Speaker, as we approach our country's 141st Memorial Day 
commemoration, I ask my colleagues to support this bill and send a 
clear message to support our troops. ''You will be taken care of when 
you return. We will not forget your sacrifice.''

Just like our military men and women did not hesitate to offer to lay 
down their lives to defend our freedom and the way of life that we 
cherish, we will not hesitate to defend the funds they need to support 
themselves and their families.

I urge my colleagues to support passage of the Veterans' Compensation 
Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2009, H.R. 1513, without delay. I urge 
my colleagues to support H.R. 1513.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.