# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `662e8a73846d85f5c5107aaeca2cf4ee`
`Ms. LANDRIEU â€” 26 June 2008`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. Mr. President, we passed, by an overwhelming margin, a 
supplemental emergency spending bill that will fund our ongoing 
operations in Iraq and in other parts of the world and will send some 
money stateside.

In the view of this Senator, we have shortchanged, even with our good 
effort that was just made, shortchanged some real ongoing serious 
emergencies here at home.

As far as the gulf coast is concerned, I voted for the bill because I 
have always believed that half a loaf is better than none.

In the bill, in large measure because of the work of Members on both 
sides of the aisle, we have a significant amount of money toward the 
construction of levees that failed and put a great city and region and 
regions throughout the gulf coast at risk, particularly the New Orleans 
metropolitan area. I know people get tired of reviewing the details, 
but less than 3 years ago, several significant levees along the great 
port system in the city of New Orleans, levees that should have held 
collapsed, and 80 percent of the city went under water. The water is 
long gone, but the pain is still there. The rebuilding is still going 
on. The anxiety of homeowners, renters, small business owners and large 
business owners, and industrial investors is still there, questioning 
whether the Federal Government's commitment to not only fix the levees, 
restore the levees and bring them up to the standards that were 
promised decades ago, if that promise is going to be kept.

This bill gets us part of the way there, but we still have an awfully 
long way to go. In the underlying bill we passed, in large measure 
crafted by House leadership--and I am disappointed in this view of the 
House leadership--they put in only a portion of the very critical levee 
funding that is needed for us to go forward, to restore these levees to 
100-year flood protection. I don't know how to explain this, but 100-
year flood protection is the bare minimum for the United States. There 
are a few areas that are enjoying 200- and 300-year flood protection in 
this country, but very few. Most do not have, as you can tell by the 
flooding going on now in States such as Missouri and Iowa and parts of 
Illinois, most places don't have the 100-year protection.

For a reference point, I wish to impress upon my colleagues that this 
is a minimum standard. The country of the Netherlands, which is so 
small it could fit inside of Louisiana, a powerful economy but a small 
nation, has flood protection for its people against storms that happen 
once every 10,000 years. We, the United States of America, cannot claim 
that we have flood protection for 99 percent of our people against 
floods once every 100 years. I am going to say again, as I have said 
100 times on this floor, incremental funding, nickles and dimes, a few 
hundred million here or there, is not going to get the job done. In the 
long run, it is going to cost the American taxpayer billions and 
billions of dollars more.

So here we go again, after the flood, after the storm, after the 
promises, after the speeches, after the lights, after the photographs, 
the bill is passed, but we do not have the whole amount of money 
necessary to reconstruct the levees as promised by the President and as 
spoken to on numerous occasions by many Members of the House and 
Senate. We do have $5.8 billion in this bill, $1.16 billion for the 
Lake Pontchartrain vicinity which is a long, ongoing project, I think 
started back in the 1960s. We do have $920 million in for west bank 
levee which was started back in the 1960s. We have $967 million in the 
southeast Louisiana flood control project that was started in the 
1990s. We have $2.9 billion of flood control and emergency projects, 
modifying drainage canals, installing pumps, armoring levees, improving 
protection at the inner harbor canal, federalizing certain non-Federal 
levees in Plaquemine Parish, the long parish that sits at the toe of 
the boot in Louisiana, reinforces and replaces floodwalls, repairs and 
restores floodwalls. The problem is the match that is required because 
of the House action. The Senate reduced the match required by the State 
of Louisiana and extended our payment terms. Instead of requiring the 
State of Louisiana to pay a higher level of 35 percent, the


Senate had suggested, I think wisely, that we revert back to the 
historic share, which is 25 percent. No one in Louisiana thinks we have 
to get these projects for free. Everyone in Louisiana understands we 
have to step up and pay our share. No one is objecting. What we simply 
asked for was a reasonable share, a historic share, not 35 percent but 
something like 20 or 25 percent. And most importantly, we had asked 
that we be allowed to pay it over 30 years.

But, no, under the House version that was very ill-conceived and very 
poorly thought out, the terms are tougher than historical standards and 
will require the State to come up with a greater match, 35 percent, and 
require us to pay it over 3 years.

I submit for the Record a letter from the president of Jefferson 
Parish, Aaron Broussard, a parish now of a half million people, as well 
as a letter from Bobby Jindal, the Governor of Louisiana. I ask 
unanimous consent that these letters be printed in the Record.