# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `673477d8348173d422839802b55d8056`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 14 December 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I urge the adoption of this conference 
report for the Defense Department. Every year since 1961 there has been 
a Defense authorization bill enacted. This year conferees and staff 
have worked extraordinarily hard, with bipartisan cooperation, and we 
are proud to be keeping up our four-and-one-half decades-long tradition 
with this conference report.

The great men and women of our Armed Forces are making the most 
difficult sacrifices. They are putting their


lives on the line, they are giving up precious time spent with their 
loved ones, they are driven by love of country and by the call of duty.

Our priorities on this bill are threefold: Care, readiness, and 
management. First, care will guarantee our troops have the best health 
care and support, both on the battlefield and once they return home.

Second, readiness will ensure our Armed Forces succeed, both in 
ongoing operations and taking on new challenges in future missions.

And, third, management will provide oversight for defense contracts, 
operations and processes, to ensure efficiency and maximize results.

First, caring for our troops and their families must always be our 
top priority. Earlier this year, media reports and a joint hearing of 
the Senate Armed Services and the Veterans' Affairs Committee exposed 
totally unacceptable conditions at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center.

Further investigation revealed deficiencies in mental health care, in 
transitioning from DOD to VA care, and in our responsiveness to the 
needs of our veterans.

This conference report includes the Wounded Warrior Act, which would 
address all these issues, ensuring our brave men and women receive the 
best care possible whenever and wherever their health concerns are.

The Wounded Warrior Act brings new focus to the signature injuries of 
the Iraq war, by establishing and funding comprehensive policies for 
preventing and treating traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress 
disorder, and other mental health conditions.

It provides for respite care and medical care for family members who 
are primary caregivers for seriously injured servicemembers.

It requires the Department of Defense and the Veterans' 
Administration to develop fully interoperable electronic health record 
systems. The act initiates fundamental reform at the Department of 
Defense and Veterans' Administration disability evaluation system, by 
requiring use of the VA presumption of sound mental and physical 
condition when men and women join the service, and it also requires VA 
standards for awarding disability.

In both cases, that will benefit our men and women. This act requires 
the Secretaries of Defense and Veterans Affairs to work together to 
significantly improve the management of medical care, disability 
evaluations, personnel actions, and the quality of life for 
servicemembers recovering from illnesses and injuries incurred while 
performing military duty.

A lot of Senators have been involved in this effort. I simply wish to 
acknowledge a few. First of all, the Veterans' Affairs Committee, under 
the leadership of Senator Akaka, has been very significant in bringing 
this matter together, getting it through the Senate and now making this 
part of a conference report. There are other Members whom I will 
identify later who have been involved, but for the time being, thanks 
are owed to many people for this Wounded Warrior Act.


Our report also includes a number of provisions to ensure that our 
servicemembers and their families are able to maintain a high quality 
of life. It authorizes a 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise for all 
uniform service personnel, half of a percent more than the President 
proposed, and an expansion and improvement of education assistance and 
support for family members. I will insert for the Record at the end of 
my comments a much more lengthy list with specific details of the 
improvements in compensation and quality of life for our uniform 
personnel.

Second, readiness for our ongoing engagements, primarily those in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, includes providing equipment, training, 
technology, and the authorities our Armed Forces need to prevail in 
combat today. For example, our report authorizes over $16 billion for 
mine resistant ambush protected vehicles, MRAPs, to protect against the 
threat of IEDs in Iraq and Afghanistan, consistent with the Department 
of Defense's amended budget request responding to urgent operational 
needs in the theater. Readiness also includes continuing to look ahead 
to ensure that our Armed Forces are appropriately transforming to be 
ready to meet emergent threats, to address long-term readiness. This 
authorization bill increases investments in defense science and 
technology programs for a total authorization of nearly $11 billion, 
$142 million more than the budget request. It includes authorization 
for a number of specific additions to our fleets of ships, submarines, 
aircraft carriers, ground systems, and aircraft. Again, a longer list 
will be inserted at the end of my statement.

The third priority is management. Sound management and oversight are 
critical for us to ensure that every dollar spent on national defense 
is spent wisely and that every initiative carried out by the Department 
of Defense is done so efficiently and effectively. The conference 
report establishes a chief management officer in the Department of 
Defense and in each of the military departments to ensure for the first 
time that these issues receive the continuous, top-level attention they 
need and deserve. The conference report would also address a number of 
specific management challenges that have arisen over the past few 
years. It will require private security contractors operating on the 
battlefields in Iraq and Afghanistan to comply with Department of 
Defense regulations on the use of force as well as orders and 
directives from commanders. It will establish a commission on wartime 
contracting in Iraq and Afghanistan to monitor reconstruction, 
security, and logistics support contracts and to make recommendations 
to improve the contracting process. It will also establish a special 
inspector general for Afghanistan reconstruction, as we already have in 
place in Iraq.

Further in the area of management, the Department of Defense has lost 
its institutional capability to manage the hundreds of billions of 
dollars it spends on goods and services each year. In recent years, we 
have seen an alarming lack of acquisition planning across the 
Department, the excessive use of time-and-materials contracts, 
undefinitized contracts, and other open-ended commitments of DOD funds, 
and a pervasive failure to perform contract oversight and management 
functions so necessary to protect the taxpayers' interests. Just last 
month, the Commission on Army Acquisition and Program Management in 
Expeditionary Operations reported that systemic failures in the DOD 
acquisition system have left the Department vulnerable to fraud, waste, 
and abuse. These problems have been particularly acute in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, but they are in no way limited to Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The conference report includes the Acquisition Improvement and 
Accountability Act of 2007 which would address these problems with the 
most sweeping piece of Government acquisition reform legislation in 
more than a decade. Among other things, it will tighten the rules for 
DOD acquisition of major weapons systems and subsystems, components and 
spare parts, to reduce the risk of contract overpricing, cost overruns, 
and failure to meet contract schedules and performance requirements.

For example, section 816 of the conference report requires the DOD to 
review systemic deficiencies that lead to cost overruns on major 
defense acquisition programs, and section 814 of the conference report 
tightens data requirements applicable to contractors on such programs. 
Further, it will establish a defense acquisition workforce development 
fund to ensure that the Department of Defense has the people and the 
skills needed to effectively manage DOD contracts. It will strengthen 
statutory protections for contractor employees who blow the whistle on 
waste, fraud, and abuse on DOD contracts by providing for the first 
time a private right of action in Federal court for contractor 
employees who are subject to reprisal for their efforts to protect the 
taxpayers' interests. A number of other management provisions will be 
included in my remarks at the conclusion and made part of the Record.

The conference report identifies all funding provided for programs, 
projects, and activities that were not requested in the President's 
budget. For the first time the report identifies the names of Members 
requesting such funding. This information was made available to the 
general public in an electronically searchable format on the Armed 
Services Committee Web site on December 7. I ask unanimous consent that 
a letter I signed at the conclusion


of the conference certifying compliance with the requirements of rule 
XLIV be printed in the Record.