# None
## `674c2ee6e3cf4985a5b21a7eca053771`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 20 June 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to a young man 
from my home, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, who gave his life in the 
performance of his duty as a U.S. marine. On April 15, 2006, an 
improvised explosive device detonated under LCpl Justin Sims's humvee 
as he patrolled Al Anbar Province in Iraq. The Covington, KY, native 
was 22 years old.

For his valor in uniform, Lance Corporal Sims received several 
awards, medals, and decorations, including the Sea Service Deployment 
Ribbon, the National Defense Service Medal, and the Purple Heart.

At a young age, Lance Corporal Sims had found what many Americans 
twice his age are still searching for: his life's calling. Justin's 
family members agree that even as a child, he aspired to serve his 
country in uniform.

His mother Alma Sims commented that:




 On 9/11, he was a junior in high school. He said, ''I'd go 


 now if they would take me.'' You would think he was bred to 


 be a Marine. From 4 and 5 years old, his favorite movie was 


 Tour of Duty. The Marines was all he talked about.


Perhaps Justin was influenced by his grandfather Coleman Luster, an 
Army veteran. Justin admired his grandfather's service, if not 
necessarily how he chose to serve.

Alma remembers:




 Papaw and Justin would joke around. Justin would say, 


 ''Army was the best thing back then, but the Marines rule 


 now.'' Justin looked up to Papaw. They were real close. My 


 dad would always tease me, ''You did great raising your boy. 


 Let's see how these girls go.''


These girls were Justin's four sisters, all younger than he was. 
Justin was a kind and caring older brother, and with Alma being a 
single parent, he made sure to spend a lot of time with his sisters to 
make things easier for his mother.

Alma said:




 He would take my four girls to school each day whenever I 


 had to go to work early. I told him, ''You don't need to do 


 that because I have a sitter.'' But he insisted on taking 


 care of them. You would think that him being 11 years older, 


 he wouldn't want anything to do with them. It was just the 


 opposite. If there was snow on the ground, he would take all 


 the girls out sledding. There was no hill too large for him.


Justin started ROTC in the eighth grade and participated at Holmes 
High School. He was a marksman with State honors for his ROTC rifle 
unit and participated in sharpshooting competitions all over the 
country. Neighbors recall seeing young Justin practicing how to twirl 
his rifle in front of his house. Once he tried to teach one of his 
sisters, then only 8 years old, how to twirl the rifle. She ended up 
with a big dent on her forehead.

Alma says:




 We still laugh about that today because they told me she 


 had fallen.


Justin graduated from Holmes High School in 2003 and later that year 
enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps. He was eventually assigned to the 
3rd Battalion, 8th Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine Division, II Marine 
Expeditionary Force, based out of Camp Lejeune, NC.

Before he left, however, while still in his senior year at Holmes, 
Justin worked after school at a restaurant.

There, he met a young woman named Leah, who only worked at the same 
restaurant for a week but kept hanging around to see her friends.

Alma recalls:




 He started flirting with her, then told her he was going to 


 ask her out.


Justin Sims and Leah Matt-Sims were married on December 26, 2004, 
after changing the date a few times because of Justin's uncertain 
deployment schedule. The happy couple found time


to honeymoon in Kentucky before Justin returned to Camp Lejeune.

Alma recalls:




 When he came back from his first tour, I said, ''How many 


 people do you know can say, 'I have protected the United 


 States'?'' He would say, ''And I do it with pride.'' He 


 considered it an honor to be a Marine and to serve his 


 country.


As a marine, Justin would periodically return to Holmes High School 
and speak to students in the ROTC Program. He deployed for his second 
tour of duty, this time in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom, in March 
2006.

Alma said:




 I told him before he left for his last tour, ''I have a bad 


 feeling.'' He said, ''If something would happen to one of my 


 brothers, I would never forgive myself. It would drive me 


 crazy for the rest of my life.''


At a memorial service for Justin held at Holmes High School in 
Covington, the mayor announced that on that July 4th, the city would 
dedicate the Justin Sims Memorial Park. It is the same park where Alma 
and her daughters would go every Sunday and write letters to Justin 
when he was at boot camp.

Our prayers are for the Sims family today after the loss of this 
dedicated marine. We are thinking of his wife Leah; his mother Alma; 
his father Beechie; his stepmother, Linda Gregory; his sisters Tia 
Bryars, Briana Bryars, Tiffani Sims, and Maliesa Jones; his 
grandmother, Mae Luster; and many other beloved family members and 
friends. Justin was predeceased by his grandfather, Coleman Luster.

Mr. President, Justin's mother Alma tells us:




 I miss talking to him every day, but I believe God has a 


 bigger job for him in heaven.


Those who knew Justin, whether as an ambitious boy in Covington or a 
dedicated warrior in Iraq, would surely agree. I want the Sims family 
to also know that this Senate celebrates the life of LCpl Justin D. 
Sims, and we honor his sacrifice on behalf of our Nation.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.