# None
## `6794fcba275d34d2b255df7b0b9c1eb3`
`Mr. ALLARD â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. ALLARD. Simply put, we need to avoid micromanaging the war from 
the floor of the Senate. We need to let our military leaders perform 
their duties and give them time for our new way forward in Iraq to be 
successful. We now have before us the Levin-Reed amendment, which sets 
a timeline for us to begin withdrawal from Iraq. We cannot afford to 
set a hard deadline to begin to walk away from Iraq. The cost of 
failure is too great to our future long-term national security. It is 
in America's security interest to have an Iraq that can sustain, 
govern, and defend itself. Too much is at stake to simply abandon Iraq 
at this point. The price of failure is simply too great.

I will continue to vote against any legislation that sets arbitrary 
deadlines and thresholds in Iraq, and I plead with my colleagues to do 
the same.

Let me remind our colleagues that we have seen terrible results from 
political motives being placed above military necessities: the attempt 
at rescuing the American Embassy hostages from Tehran, and Beirut, in 
the 1980s, and Somalia in the 1990s. Leaving Iraq in the current 
situation would only result in emboldening terrorists around the world. 
Bin Laden himself is on record, after these previous withdrawals, 
criticizing our lack of will and questioning our commitment to fight 
these zealots. We have to learn from our mistakes in the past.

I refer to a quote in the Iraq Study Group's final report on page 37 
and 38:




 A premature American departure from Iraq would almost 


 certainly produce greater sectarian violence and further 


 deterioration of conditions.


It goes on to say:




 The near-term results would be a significant power vacuum, 


 greater human suffering, regional destabilization, and a 


 threat to the global economy.
Al-Qaeda would depict our 


 withdrawal as a historic victory. If we leave and Iraq 


 descends into chaos, the long-range consequences could 


 eventually require the United States to return.

Of course, I remain upset that more progress has not been made on the 
political and domestic security front within Iraq, but that reality 
doesn't diminish the fact that al-Qaida is training, operating, and 
carrying out their mission in Iraq right now. They are clearly still a 
threat and are still determined to accomplish their goals of attacking 
us and our allies around the world. What is most unfortunate about this 
debate is that clearly the majority party in the Senate has already 
prejudged the work our commander in Iraq, GEN David Petraeus, is trying 
to carry out. As we all know, in September a complete review of Iraq 
policy, including a detailed assessment of the surge, will be 
presented. I look forward to that assessment. I look forward to making 
the appropriate decisions based on that report. It would be 
disingenuous to discontinue the plans our military leaders have planned 
and are putting into place simply for political gain.

I quote General Petraeus, commander of the multinational force in 
Iraq. He said:




 If I could have only one [thing] at this point in Iraq, it 


 would be more time. I can think of few commanders in history 


 who wouldn't have wanted more troops, more time, or more 


 unity among their partners; however, if I could only have one 


 [thing] at this point in Iraq, it would be more time. This is 


 an exceedingly tough endeavor that faces countless 


 challenges. None of us, Iraqi or American, are anything but 


 impatient and frustrated at where we are. But there are no 


 shortcuts. Success in an endeavor like this is the result of 


 steady, unremitting pressure over the long haul. It's a test 


 of wills, demanding patience, determination and stamina from 


 all involved.


I think we ought to give him his one wish.

This is a similar situation we were in only months ago. Many in this 
body wanted to reject the strategy General Petraeus proposed in Iraq, 
even before he had been given the full opportunity to perform his 
mission. I still cannot comprehend why my colleagues would agree to a 
new bipartisan strategy in Iraq but only months later not be willing to 
support our self-imposed guidelines.

On July 12, the President issued a report as required by the fiscal 
year 2007 supplemental appropriations bill, assessing the progress of 
the sovereign Government of Iraq in achieving the benchmarks detailed 
in the bill. The report told us 8 of the 18 benchmarks detailed in that 
bill received satisfactory remarks. While we are certainly disappointed 
that more benchmarks were not achieved, it is important to highlight 
the successes being made and how the Iraqi Government is performing, as 
their success will ultimately allow us to responsibly reduce our troop 
levels.

The benchmarks that have reached success so far are as follows: The 
Government of Iraq has made satisfactory progress toward forming a 
constitutional review committee and then completing the constitutional 
review. The Government of Iraq has made satisfactory progress toward 
enacting and implementing legislation on procedures to form semi-
autonomous regions. The Government of Iraq has made satisfactory 
progress toward establishing supporting political, media, economic, and 
services committees in support of the Baghdad security plan. The 
Government of Iraq has made satisfactory progress toward providing 
three trained and ready Iraqi brigades to support Baghdad operations. 
The Government of Iraq has made satisfactory progress in ensuring the 
Baghdad security plan does not provide a safe haven for any outlaws, 
regardless of their sectarian or political affiliations. The Government 
of Iraq, with substantial coalition assistance, has made satisfactory 
progress, once again, toward establishing the planned joint security 
stations in Iraq. The Government of Iraq has made satisfactory progress 
toward ensuring that the rights of minority political parties in the 
Iraqi legislature are protected. And finally, the Iraqi Government is 
making satisfactory progress in allocating funds to ministries and 
provinces for reconstruction projects.

General Odierno, on the surge progress, says:




 The increased presence is having an effect, and it will 


 continue to be felt in the weeks to come. We still have not 


 reached . . . the end of our surge. Every day we are making 


 progress.


That is from LTG Ray Odierno, U.S. Army Commander of the 
multinational corps in Iraq. He goes on to list some specific examples. 
I don't need to list all those specific examples, but a full page in 
fine print where he points to successes in Iraq. What is most 
unfortunate during this debate is that the Democratic majority has put 
in jeopardy the passage of the Defense authorization legislation, 
something that simply has not happened in decades. By pushing for a 
failed Iraq policy amendment to the Defense authorization bill, the 
majority are willing to trash legislation that is vital to our men and 
women in the Armed Forces. The managers of the bill, Chairman Carl 
Levin and Ranking Member John McCain, should be commended for their 
good work on this comprehensive and vital legislation. The 
authorization bill provides our men and women in combat zones with the 
resources and equipment they need to complete their missions. It also 
provides for our troops at home by ensuring they receive appropriate 
medical care upon their return and the training needed prior to 
deployment.



Finally, the bill provides for the health and well-being of our Armed 
Forces and the tools they need to defeat terrorism and defend our 
Nation from future attacks. An important component of this bill is the 
increased commitment to the quality of life for our service men and 
women. The authorization includes $135 billion for military personnel, 
authorizing payment of combat-related compensation to servicemembers 
medically retired for a combat-related disability and lowering the age 
at which members of the Reserves may draw from their retirement. This 
bill further provides our men and women with quality health care by 
adjusting $1.9 billion for TRICARE benefits and directing the 
Department of Defense to study and develop a plan addressing the 
findings of the Mental Health Assessment Commission.

This bill also gives our troops the necessary protection to combat 
the threats they are facing right now, particularly to counter 
insurgent improvised explosive devices--commonly known as IEDs--threats 
which remain the No. 1 killer of American troops. This bill includes $4 
billion to the individual services and special operations command for 
Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles. It also fully funds the 
President's request of $4.5 billion for the Joint Improvised Explosive 
Devices Defeat Office for blast injury research and the procurement of 
IED jammers.


Unfortunately, this legislation is threatened by the insistence of 
the majority leader on having this protracted and unnecessary debate. 
There is no doubt that we face extremely difficult challenges in Iraq. 
We have not made enough progress. The citizens of Iraq must be willing 
to fight for their own freedom. But we should not cut General 
Petraeus's time short in implementing his plan that this body 
overwhelmingly approved of only a few months ago.

I have a quote or two I wish to share and remind the body about what 
the Democrats, the opposite party, have said. The Democrats' dismissal 
of General Petraeus's report is part of a pattern. The Baghdad security 
plan was declared a failure 2 months before U.S. reinforcements arrived 
in Iraq. Senator Reid from Nevada is quoted as saying ''This war is 
lost'' and that ''the surge is not accomplishing anything.'' Senator 
Levin said, ''It's a failure.'' But the surge only began in mid-June, 2 
months after the Democrats first declared it a failure.

General Petraeus said:




 The surge has really just . . . begun.


Hours ago I heard the minority whip talk about how many on this side 
have acknowledged mistakes that have been made during the Iraq war, but 
how we won't vote to pull our troops out right away. I have been one of 
those Members of the Republican caucus who has said publicly that 
mistakes have been made. I will point out that the Commander in Chief 
has stated the same thing. That said, regardless of the errors that 
have been made, it does not mean the mission or the policy is any less 
important. In fact, I am trying to think of a conflict in which we have 
been involved that we can't point to some mistakes. I am very aware 
that the longer we stay in Iraq, the more it will cost the United 
States, both in money but, more importantly, in the lives of American 
men and women. However, I won't support the Levin-Reed amendment 
because I believe it is based on the assumption that by leaving Iraq 
prematurely, Americans will be safer.

The terrorists have made it abundantly clear that Iraq is central to 
the war against the civilized world. They are committed to fighting 
there and will not stop unless we defeat them. If we have to fight, it 
is preferable not to fight on our own soil. So let's hurry and have the 
cloture vote on the Levin-Reed amendment so we can defeat it. I ask my 
colleagues to reject this amendment and let us return to the important 
debate on Defense authorization to ensure our troops have the adequate 
support here at home and abroad.

I yield the floor.