# None
## `679b3c8e6816970751916668b45edc35`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I say to my friend from Minnesota, he is 
exactly right. The fact is the people there are sick of al-Qaida, as he 
well points out. The sheiks are on our side. Al-Qaida has reacted, 
predictably, very violently. They have assassinated some of these 
sheiks. They have assassinated their families. Their lives are 
threatened every day.

But the fact is, they are sick and tired of al-Qaida. They are 
turning out in large numbers to join the local police. And they are 
doing, frankly, a job that surprises many of us.

I wish also to comment in my remarks that this is a long way--a long 
way--from the security situation we want. But somehow to stand on the 
floor of the Senate and say we have not had some signs of success I 
think flies in the face of the assessment of the generals and those we 
placed in charge and the facts on the ground.

South of Baghdad, as I was saying, in this area, as shown on the map, 
Operation Phantom Thunder is intended to stop insurgents present in the 
Baghdad belts from originating attacks in the capital itself.

A brigade of the 10th Mountain Division, which I visited, is 
operating in Baghdad belts that have been havens for al-Qaida. And the 
slog is tough. It is very tough in that part, south of Baghdad, since 
many of the al-Qaida and other insurgents have migrated out of Baghdad 
into that area. But the soldiers of the 10th Mountain Division are 
moving forward, all of them. Commanders report that the local sheiks 
there are increasingly siding with the coalition against al-Qaida. 
Southeast of Baghdad, the military is targeting al-Qaida in safe havens 
that they maintain along the Tigris River. In Baghdad itself--the key 
to all of this--the military, in cooperation with Iraqi security 
forces, continues to establish joint security stations and deploy 
throughout the city. These efforts have produced positive results, 
according to General Petraeus and others. Sectarian violence has fallen 
since January. The total number of car bombings and suicide attacks 
declined in May and June. The number of locals coming forward with 
intelligence tips has risen.


Make no mistake, violence in Baghdad remains at unacceptably high 
levels. Suicide bombers and other threats pose formidable challenges, 
and other difficulties abound. Nevertheless, there appears to be 
overall movement in the right direction.

North of Baghdad, the Diyala area--up here--Iraqi and American troops 
have surged and are fighting to deny al-Qaida sanctuary in the city of 
Bakuba. For the first time since the war began, America showed up in 
force and did not quickly withdraw from the area as had been the case 
in the previous failed strategy. In response, locals have formed a new 
alliance with the coalition to counter al-Qaida. Diyala, which was the 
center of Abu Mus'ab al Zarqawi's proposed Islamic caliphate, finally 
has a chance to turn aside the forces of extremism.

I offer these observations not in order to present a rosy scenario of 
the challenges we continue to face in Iraq. As last week's horrific 
bombing in Salah ad Din Province illustrates so graphically, the 
threats to Iraq's stability have not gone away, nor are they likely to 
go away in the near future, and our brave men and women in Iraq will 
continue to face great challenges. What I do believe is that while the 
mission to bring a degree of security to Iraq, into Baghdad and its 
environs in particular, in order to establish the necessary 
precondition for political and economic progress, while that mission is 
still in its early stages, the progress our military has made should 
encourage all of us.

It is also clear that the overall strategy General Petraeus has put 
into place, a traditional counterinsurgency strategy which emphasizes 
protecting the population and which gets our troops off the bases and 
into the areas they are trying to protect, is the correct one.

Some of my colleagues argue that we should return troops to the 
forward operating bases--that is basically what would happen if we 
passed the Levin-Reed amendment--and confine their activities to 
training and targeted counterterrorism operations. That is basically 
what this resolution says. That is precisely what we did for 3/1/2/ 
years, and the situation in Iraq got worse--precisely. I am surprised 
my colleagues would advocate a return to the failed Rumsfeld-Casey 
strategy. No one can be certain whether this new strategy, which 
remains in the early stages, can bring about greater stability. We can 
be sure that should the United States seek to legislate an end to this 
strategy as it is just beginning, then we will fail for certain.

Mr. President, I read this earlier, this resolution. This resolution 
incredibly says that we can only--the mission is restricted to only 
fighting al-Qaida. I guess al-Qaida will have to wear T-shirts that say 
they are al-Qaida. I guess our troops are expected, if someone is 
planting an IED, to say: Excuse me, sir. Are you al-Qaida or Shiite? If 
you are Shiite, go ahead and plant it. Please.

Now that the military effort is showing some signs of progress, the 
space is opening for political progress. Yet, rather than seize the 
opportunity, the Government, under Prime Minister Maliki, is not 
functioning as it must. We see little evidence of reconciliation and 
little progress toward meeting the benchmarks laid out by the 
President. The Iraqi Government can function; the question is whether 
it will.

I would like to urge my colleagues to take a look at one more chart. 
I appreciate the indulgence of my colleagues, but I think we ought to 
look at the region. I think we ought to have a look at this region 
today. With Iraq obviously in the center of an area of the world from 
which comes the world's supply of oil, from which comes the recruits 
for al-Qaida, from which comes the primary source--not the only source, 
as we have found, but the primary source--of suicide bombers and people 
who would rather commit suicide and take others' lives along with their 
own, what happens when Iraq evolves into chaos and genocide?

Iranians are already exporting the most lethal IEDs into Iraq, IEDs 
that are capable of even penetrating the armor of our tanks. They are 
exporting into Iraq not only terrorists and those who have orchestrated 
attacks, including the kidnapping of American soldiers--there is very 
compelling evidence that they were paid to do that--but they are also 
increasing their influence in all of southern Iraq. Religious leaders 
have gone into southern Iraq, into the small towns as well as Basra. 
Basra has become, unfortunately, a very dangerous city, thanks to 
Iranian influence. In the meantime, the Iranians, emboldened by our 
failure in Iraq, continue to do other things as well, including 
developing nuclear weapons, including providing support for Hezbollah 
and Hamas.

We see the Saudis now becoming more and more concerned about the fate 
of the Sunnis. In fact, a few weeks ago, the King of Saudi Arabia made 
comments very critical about the United States of America for the first 
time in anyone's recorded memory. Why would he do such a thing? One, 
our failure; two, they live in the neighborhood and they can't leave. 
When we talk about telling them we are leaving, then they have to 
adjust to it. There is very little doubt that the Saudis, with their 
support of madrasas and other extremist training grounds, are 
responsible for many of the problems.

Jordan now has--see how small Jordan is--Jordan now has 750,000 Iraqi


refugees. How many more do you think will pour into Jordan if this 
instability and chaos ensues, which the majority leader of the Senate 
has stated, as short a time ago as yesterday, as hypothetical. I think 
there is very little doubt that the destabilization of Jordan would be 
at least increased.

What about our friends the Syrians who continue to export people who 
are suicide bombers into Iraq? The majority of suicide bombers, 
according to experts, aren't Iraqis; they come from other parts of the 
Middle East, from Saudi Arabia, from Pakistan, from Afghanistan, and 
other places. What about the Syrians? If you might remember, after our 
initial victory in Iraq and the assassination of the former Prime 
Minister of Lebanon, Hariri, Mr. Assad, Bashar Assad, a former 
optometrist in London, when his father died, was on his heels. There 
was supposed to be an investigation going on of the Syrian involvement 
in the assassination of Hariri, and there have been other 
assassinations as well.


Meanwhile, in southern Lebanon, despite a U.N. Security Council 
resolution calling for the disarmament of Hezbollah, Hezbollah is now 
being rearmed by the Syrians, and their rockets are being resupplied--
Katyusha rockets and other weapons are being supplied to the Hezbollah 
in southern Lebanon. Some believe it is a matter of time before there 
is a reignition of rocket attacks and conflicts in southern Lebanon.

What about on the other side? What about the Palestinian area? We now 
see a situation in the Palestinian areas where Gaza is now controlled 
by Hamas, an organization dedicated to the extinction of the State of 
Israel. My friends, here is a stark fact: We pull out of Iraq, Iraq 
devolves into chaos, and the pressures and the danger to the State of 
Israel is greater than at any time in its history. I don't say that is 
my opinion; that is the opinion of the military and political leaders 
of Israel today.

One other aspect that I wish to point out. We know the Kurdish area 
is probably the most stable part of Iraq for a variety of reasons, 
including their experience in self-governance. But the Turks have made 
it very clear that if the Kurds attempt to establish an independent 
state, they will not stand for it; they will take action militarily. I 
am not saying that; they have said it. So we have a deterioration in 
Baghdad, in Iraq, the Kurds declare their independence, and the Turks 
then feel they are required to take military action because of the 
insurgency of Kurds who have launched attacks out of the Kurdish areas 
into Turkey.

So I think it is important for us to recognize there is a lot at 
stake here. It isn't just Iraq. Certainly, Iraq is part of it, but it 
is not just Iraq; it is certainly other parts of the region as well.

I hope when my colleagues say, as the majority leader said, ''It is 
only a hypothetical'' if chaos evolves in the region, that we are 
required to consider the situation in the entire region and what 
happens right here where the world's supply of oil--the majority of the 
world's supply of oil--comes from as well, that we consider the 
consequences of our actions.

I thank my colleagues for their indulgence, and I yield the floor.