# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `682e79198b86e92e13ce1d08817564fa`
`Mr. KERRY â€” 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, last November, the American people sent an 
unmistakable and incredibly important message to their elected leaders. 
They didn't ask for it, they demanded a change of course in Iraq. The 
American people understand that the current strategy is not working. 
They have demanded that we honor the extraordinary effort of our troops 
by providing a strategy for Iraq that is actually worthy of their 
sacrifice. They don't consider more of the same--additional troops 
essentially doing what they have been doing before--they don't consider 
that anything other than an escalation of our military involvement, 
linked to the same mistakes and same illusions of the past. They don't 
consider that an acceptable strategy.

This new Congress comes here with a mandate, as well as a moral 
obligation, to find not just a new way forward in Iraq but the right 
way forward. That is what we owe the families; that is what we owe 
those fighting forces.

It is clear the administration's litany of mistakes has made an 
incredibly difficult task that much harder and has reduced what we can 
reasonably expect to accomplish. As the saying goes around here, we are 
where we are. The mistakes of the past do not change the fact that 
Congress bears some responsibility for getting us into this war and, 
therefore, must take responsibility for getting us out.

That responsibility starts by having a real bipartisan dialog on 
where we go from here. I believe we are finally at the point where that 
can happen. We all agree about the nobility of the service of our 
troops. We all agree about the incredible bravery of the men and women 
of our Armed Forces who put their lives on the line every single day in 
Iraq. We all want to see a stable Iraq. We all know Iraqis want to see 
it, too. We all agree on the need to preserve our vital national 
security interests in the region, and we all agree on the importance of 
preventing the violence in Iraq from spreading into a broader regional 
conflict. We all understand the need to prevent Iraq from becoming a 
safe haven for al-Qaida and like-minded terrorists. We all understand 
the potential of regional chaos and of failed states spreading one to 
the other.

In order to understand, however, where we go from here, we have to 
remind ourselves of the real nature of this conflict. It is not enough 
to sort of find some safe haven in rhetoric that points out all of the 
downsides but continues to pursue a policy that, in fact, increases 
those downsides, invites those downsides, actually makes matters worse.

The civil war we are in the middle of now didn't begin when we went 
there. It had been tamped down, quashed by a dictatorship and by 
history. Before I went back to visit the Middle East, I had the chance 
to read a book by Vali Nasr, called ''The Shia Revival,'' in which he 
traces the history of Shiaism and what is happening in the Middle East 
today. What we learned from that is instructive and critical to 
determining whether troops will make a difference on how we resolve 
what is happening in Iraq today.

When the Prophet Mohammed died, Ali, who was his cousin and stepson 
and virtual son, was passed over at that time to be the caliph. In 
fact, three people were chosen in between him. Ultimately, he did 
become the caliph, but that was the beginning of the difference of the 
separation, if you will, within Islam. That became far more pronounced 
about 1,300 years ago, around 680, when the grandson of Ali was 
slaughtered in the desert along with 72 of his followers--72, a number 
that comes back to haunt us today, because that was indeed an event in 
Karballah in 682 that defined martyrdom, which we see played to by the 
extreme religious efforts that are taking place today in the Middle 
East.

Why do I mention this today? Because that is where the great Shia-
Sunni divide began. Ali and his followers were beheaded in the desert, 
their bodies left to rot in the sun. Their heads were posted, first in 
Najaf, and later in Damascus. That began to instill a depth of both 
anger and suppression that has gone on all of these centuries.

The fact is that we, through our invasion and our election, have 
given the Shia at the ballot box what they never could achieve all of 
those years, and the Sunni, who have continually been the dominant, 
more secular faction that managed the affairs of state, are suddenly 
finding themselves in the minority; many believe they were born to the 
right to rule and are determined to restore it. This is the civil 
conflict we have put ourselves in the middle of, with American troops 
who don't speak the language going door to door and house to house, 
attempting to somehow make sense of an alien environment they have been 
plunged into--from California, Kansas, Missouri, Massachusetts, and all 
of our States. We are doing precisely what Secretary Rumsfeld said we 
would not do--putting our troops in the middle of a civil war.

On my recent trip to the Middle East, I heard grave concerns 
expressed by Sunni leaders, Mubarak and others, about the Shia 
resurgence and Iran's growing influence in the region. Indeed, Iran's 
influence has grown, and we are partly responsible, if not 
significantly responsible, for that growth. We need to stand up for our 
allies in the region, our Sunni friends, yes. But we can and must do it 
in a way that doesn't exacerbate the Sunni-Shia rift in the region. 
That is why we have to ask more of our Sunni allies when it comes to 
pressuring the Sunnis in Iraq to accept that, with this turn of events 
called an election, they will no longer--absent a revolution, which 
some are planning on--be running the country, and that they must lay 
down their arms and join the political process.

We must make clear that countries such as Saudi Arabia can and must 
do more to crack down on support for those Sunni insurgents coming into 
Iraq from their country. We dare not forget that it is the Sunni 
insurgents who are killing many of our troops. Most of those troops 
have died in Anbar Province. We have a right to demand more from the 
Sunni neighbors to quell that insurgency. We must encourage those Sunni 
neighbors to step up in terms of providing debt relief and 
reconstruction assistance, and we must make clear that threatening to 
intervene in Iraq in a way that is perceived as being on behalf of the 
Sunni minority only serves to exacerbate the Sunni-Shia complexity, the 
tension that is causing so much of the violence today.

Now here in Washington, a combination of events on the ground and the 
November election results are beginning to produce a bipartisan resolve 
to genuinely change course. Many on both sides of the aisle now agree 
that the administration's plan to escalate the war in Iraq by sending 
in some 21,500 additional troops would represent a tragic mistake. It 
won't end the violence; it won't provide security; it won't turn back 
the clock and avoid the civil war that is in fact already underway; it 
won't deter terrorists who have a completely different agenda; it won't 
rein in the militias who are viewed as the protectors of the general 
population. It will simply postpone the political solution that is the 
only solution in Iraq, while further damaging our prestige and 
credibility in the region. Unfortunately, it will also expose our 
troops to unnecessary death and injury.

Our generals understand this. General Abizaid said clearly in his 
testimony before the Armed Services Committee that more U.S. troops 
will not


solve the security problem. In fact, he said they would only slow the 
process of getting Iraqi security forces to take more responsibility. 
The Joint Chiefs of Staff unanimously oppose this escalation. In fact, 
according to recent news reports, the Pentagon warned that any short-
term mission may only set up the United States for bigger problems when 
it ends.

A short-term mission could give an enormous edge to virtually all the 
armed factions in Iraq, including al-Qaida's foreign fighters, Sunni 
insurgents and Sunni and Shiite militias, without giving an enduring 
boost to the U.S. military mission or the Iraqi Army. And it is not 
just the advice of his military commanders in Iraq the President is 
ignoring, it is the bipartisan counsel of the Iraq Study Group 
appointed for the very purpose of defining a new course.

Mr. President, what kind of arrogance so willfully kicks to the curb 
the work product of two former Secretaries of State, Republicans, a 
former Attorney General and Chief of Staff, Republican, a former 
Senator and member of the leadership, Republican, and a group of 
moderates, a former Secretary of Defense, and others respected for the 
moderation of their views on foreign policy and security issues? What 
kind of arrogance avoids almost all of those recommendations and moves 
in a different direction?

Rather than change course, this administration chose to ignore the 
generals. In fact, it chose to change the generals. The folly of this 
escalation is so clear that we have a bipartisan responsibility to do 
everything in our power to say no.

I ask my colleagues: Is there one colleague here who believes that 
21,500 troops is going to pacify Iraq? Is there a colleague here who 
believes that 100,000 troops will pacify Iraq? It is not enough for 
Congress simply to go on record opposing the President's reckless plan. 
That is why I support the resolution submitted by my colleague, Senator 
Kennedy, that requires a new congressional authorization, which is 
appropriate because the prior authorization only applies to the weapons 
of mass destruction and to the threat that Iraq poses to us based on 
the presence of Saddam Hussein. This is a new Iraq, and it is an Iraq 
with a civil war, and the Congress of the United States has a 
responsibility and a moral obligation to make certain that if our 
troops from each of our States are going to fight and die, we stand up 
and be counted as to what the force structure is to be, as to what 
their mission should be because this administration has proven 
unwilling to get it right.

Stopping this escalation, however, is not enough. I believe Congress 
has to provide a responsible exit strategy that preserves our interests 
in the region, preserves our ability to continue to protect the 
security of the United States, and honors the sacrifice our troops have 
made. I believe those are tests we need to pass.

Six months ago in the Senate, we stood against appeals to politics 
and pride and demanded a date to bring our troops home, to make Iraqis 
stand up for Iraq and fight a more effective war on terror. But while 
we lost that rollcall, I still believe it was the right policy to put 
in place, to demand benchmarks, to demand accountability, and to 
leverage action.

That is why I will again introduce legislation, slightly different 
this time, in order to try to offer a comprehensive strategy for 
achieving a political solution. I believe the strategy I will set forth 
is the best way forward for America and for Iraq. We have to find a way 
to end this misguided war and bring our troops home, and the 
legislation, while protecting all the interests I described, I believe 
can do that.

I believe the Iraq Study Group's recommendations can form the basis 
for finding a bipartisan way forward. Many of those proposals, which 
are consistent with proposals that some in the Senate have long 
advocated, are incorporated in the legislation I will offer, including 
launching a major diplomatic initiative, enforcing a series of 
benchmarks for meeting key political objectives, shifting the military 
mission to training Iraqi security forces and conducting targeted 
counterterrorism operations, maintaining an over-the-horizon presence 
to protect our interests supported by a concerted effort to disarm, 
demobilize, and reintegrate the militias which must be undertaken by 
Iraqis.

This legislation includes an additional provision that is a critical 
component of the strategy. I know a lot of colleagues were nervous 
about setting a date. Fewer are as nervous today. But I believe there 
is a way to require the President to set that date, negotiate that 
exit, a way to do it constitutionally and also within the context of 
the reauthorization.

I think that is not an arbitrary deadline. In fact, the Iraq Study 
Group report effectively sets a goal of withdrawing U.S. combat forces 
from Iraq by the first quarter of 2008, or within approximately 1 year. 
This date was based on the timeframe for transferring responsibility to 
Iraqi security forces set forth by General Casey and on the schedule 
agreed upon with the Iraqi Government itself for achieving key 
political security objectives.

The President even said that under that new strategy, responsibility 
for security would be transferred to Iraqis before the end of this 
year. That is how unarbitrary it is. The President has said it, our 
generals have said it, the Iraq Study Group has said it.

I wish to repeat this because it is important because it is 
continually distorted. We all want success, but we have to examine the 
realities of the road to success. An effort that combines diplomacy 
with smart deployment of our troops is the only road to success.

I ask my colleagues: Where is the diplomacy? Many of us can remember, 
under a Republican President, Henry Kissinger shuttling back and forth 
day and night working to bring an end to the Vietnam war. Many of us 
can remember Jim Baker, at the beginning of the decade in the nineties, 
when he took 15 trips to Syria alone, and on the final trip got 
President Asad to actually agree to support what we were doing. That is 
diplomacy.

We don't have that kind of diplomacy. We lack even a special envoy 
there day to day, hour to hour, leveraging the Arab League, leveraging 
the United Nations, working with the U.N. Perm Five, working with the 
neighboring countries, doing the kinds of significant, heavy diplomatic 
lifting our sons and daughters who are dying deserve.

As our combat troop levels wind down, we can have sufficient forces 
to confront the Sunni insurgency. We can still continue to prosecute 
al-Qaida, but our core security interests--the security interests of 
preventing another terrorist attack on our country--those interests lie 
where our troops can still play a positive role in confronting Sunni 
insurgents and their al-Qaida allies. That will happen when we focus on 
Al Anbar Province, not Baghdad.

It is time for Iraqis to assume responsibility for their country, and 
that is not just a statement. It has been 4 years, 300,000 troops are 
trained. When I talk with the military people, they don't tell me 
training is the problem. They tell me motivation is the problem. Those 
300,000 troops are not prepared to die for an Iraq yet, and they are 
mostly local militia and/or local tribe affiliated, which is their true 
allegiance at this point in time.


We need a timetable which forces Iraqi politicians to confront this 
reality. Americans should not be dying because Iraqi politicians refuse 
to compromise and come together. If they are not willing to do it today 
with thousands of people dying around them, with this kind of sectarian 
violence, what will make them more willing to do that in a year? They 
are using the security blanket of American presence in order to avoid 
making those compromises, and we need to understand that and get about 
the business of leveraging the compromise that is the only solution to 
what is happening in Iraq.

I believe a deadline will actually help provide the Iraqis with the 
motivation and the pressure to step up and take control. General 
Abizaid made it clear that is essential to our strategy. The key to 
providing the motivation is making sure they, in fact, begin to take 
control and begin to define their own future.

As we give the Iraqis more control over their own destiny, we also 
have to hold them accountable for the fundamentals of leading their 
country on the construction, as well as the basic resolution, the 
political differences within the oil revenues, the federalism


issue, which are the two great stumbling blocks fundamental to a 
resolution.

Why the President didn't make the condition of providing additional 
security and putting additional Americans online, why he didn't make 
their resolution of those issues a precondition is beyond me. But 
American forces are now going to be put at greater risk, more kids at 
harm, without the fundamentals that are essential and that are 
completely out of the power of any squad or company or battalion to be 
able to resolve.

When Prime Minister Maliki took power in May, General Casey and 
Ambassador Khalilzad said the new Government had 6 months to make the 
political compromises necessary to win public confidence and unify the 
country--6 months last May. They were right. And yet with no real 
deadline to force the Government's hand, that period passed without any 
meaningful action, and we are now seeing the disastrous results.

To ensure history does not repeat itself, we need to put those 
benchmarks in place, and we need to have those benchmarks agreed upon. 
That is the least, again, we can ask on behalf of our troops.

I, also, believe a deadline is essential to getting Iraq's neighbors 
to face up to the realities of the security needs of the region. If we 
are going to be concerned about Iran, it should not be surreptitiously 
based on them using us. It should be all of us together defining a new 
security arrangement for the region. General Zinni has talked about 
that many times. He is one of the most respected hands in that region.

In addition, our own intelligence agencies tell us that the war in 
Iraq is fanning the flames of jihad, and we have to stop serving as an 
al-Qaida recruitment tool. When are we going to take that seriously in 
the Senate? We spent a lot of time and energy to reorganize the 
intelligence community. We supposedly have the best intelligence now, 
and that intelligence in the conglomerate is telling us that this 
current policy is putting America at greater risk because we are 
creating more terrorists, fanning the flames of unrest in the region, 
and creating a recruitment tool for al-Qaida in that region.

We can see the results. Hamas is more powerful now. Hezbollah and 
Nasrallah are more powerful today. Iran is more powerful today. Syria 
is more than willing to play with Iran than care about what the 
concerns might be of the rest of the region.

We have gone backward because of this policy. How can this 
administration stand up and say to us that we have to fear the security 
interests of the future, when the security interests of the present are 
moving in the wrong direction?

Afghanistan, where the diversion of resources to Iraq has already 
allowed the Taliban to rise again, is increasing as a threat to those 
long-term security interests. Osama bin Laden roams free while a 
regenerated al-Qaida continues to plot attacks on American interests, 
and the flourishing opium trade has turned the country into a virtual 
narcostate, funding insurgents and warlords and threatening the 
viability of the Karzai Government.

Now our generals in Afghanistan are warning, in the darkest possible 
terms, that the Taliban is poised to launch a major new offensive in 
Afghanistan, and they have issued an urgent appeal for more U.S. troops 
to fight back. Instead of sending 20,000 troops over to Iraq, we ought 
to be listening to our military commanders and give them the few 
thousand more troops they desperately need to deal with the Taliban in 
Afghanistan.

On the broader regional front, we clearly need to come to grips with 
the need to engage Iran in a way that not only deters Iran from nuclear 
and other military adventurism, but does not create another disastrous 
war that is not in our national security interest. I want to take one 
moment before closing to speak to that point.

I am hardly the only one in the Senate who is concerned about a 
terrible byproduct of the administration's escalation plan for Iraq. 
That byproduct could be movement towards a calculated military conflict 
with Iran, which would further destabilize the Middle East, fan the 
flames of intra-Muslim and Muslim-Western violence. In fact, many 
Americans are increasingly concerned that the administration's rhetoric 
regarding Iran sounds eerily familiar.

Congress must make it absolutely certain that we do not make the same 
mistake we made in rushing to war with Iraq, starting by making it 
clear President Bush does not have the authority to engage Iran 
militarily, excepting, of course, an immediate attack on our troops or 
a definable and palpable emergency. He does not have the authority to 
engage them without express congressional authorization.

Looking at recent developments, it is not hard to see why people are 
concerned. In the President's speech introducing his new Iraq strategy, 
he issued a thinly veiled threat that sounded as though the 
administration was at least contemplating military operations on the 
Iranian side of the border. In the last few weeks we have arrested 
Iranian nationals in two separate incidents in Iraq. The initial 
operations against Shiite militias in Baghdad at a minimum are bound to 
exacerbate tensions with Iran even further, and we recently sent 
another aircraft carrier to the region, ratcheting up our aggressive 
posture.

Taken alone, individually, there is a certain logic to each of those 
actions. Taken on the whole, however, they have created an impression 
in the region, and as we all know impressions are what ultimately push 
leaders to make judgments about threat and to make determinations about 
their own actions. The impression in the region is that we have taken 
the side of the Sunnis in the conflict with Iraq. Whether that is true 
or not, we must never forget that in the Middle East especially, 
perception is reality. If we are seen to be favoring the Sunnis, we run 
the risk of alienating the Shiite majority that will ultimately be 
running Iraq--that is the reality--and inflaming extremism throughout 
the region. It is essential that we remain evenhanded in our own 
actions as well as our words in our efforts to bring stability to Iraq.

There is another reason, as the Iraqi Study Group suggested, we 
should engage Iran and Syria. Leadership means talking to countries who 
are not our friends. President Kennedy reminded us: Never fear to 
negotiate but never negotiate out of fear. We need to engage directly 
when our vital national security interests are at stake. We have done 
it all through our history. Richard Nixon sent Henry Kissinger to 
China. President Reagan went to meet with Miguel Gorbachev and came to 
an agreement on arms after defining the ''evil empire.'' The 
conversation that I had recently in the Middle East with Senator Dodd, 
when we traveled there together with President Asad of Syria, led us to 
believe that a dialog could, in fact, be constructed in working toward 
a goal that we share with Syria: creating a stable, secular, Arab Iraq. 
That is at least what President Asad said he would like. It seems to 
me, given the morass we are in, it is worth putting that to the test.

We cannot turn back the clock and reverse the decisions that brought 
us to this pass in Iraq and the Middle East. We cannot achieve the kind 
of clear and simple victory the administration promised the American 
people so often even as the conditions in Iraq grew worse and worse. 
But we can avoid an outright defeat. We can avoid creating the chaos we 
say we want to avoid. We can avoid a victory for our adversaries by 
identifying specifically what we can and cannot accomplish in Iraq.

With a new Congress comes a new responsibility: to get this policy 
right. That starts with preventing the President from going forward 
with this senseless escalation. And it has to end with finding an exit 
strategy that preserves our core interests in Iraq, in the region, and 
throughout the world.

I look forward to having a real debate. I hope we can find that way.

I might mention, when Senator Dodd and I were about to helicopter out 
of Baghdad, we were at Landing Zone Washington, which is right in the 
Green Zone. Many Senators are familiar with it. In the darkness of 
night, as we were leaving, a young man came up to us to talk to us and 
he identified himself as an officer in the Army. He was going home for 
leave and was hitching a ride on the helicopter to go home. He went 
home, visited his 14-


month-old daughter and, I think, his 4-year-old son, if I am correct. 
His name was Brian Freeman and he was intelligent and thoughtful and 
bright and he talked about his future and talked with us animatedly 
about what was going on in Iraq and how he disagreed with what he was 
being asked to do and how others did. He went home, and we just learned 
that this Friday he was killed. So he went back. He did his duty as so 
many have.

I know when I returned from war, almost 40 years ago now, I stood up 
and spoke from my heart and my gut about what I thought was wrong. To 
this day that has been controversial in some quarters, but I am proud 
that I told the truth. And that truth has been documented again and 
again from Army training manuals to books that have been written to the 
statements of our own Secretary of Defense at that time, Robert 
McNamara. But, before I finish, I want to make it clear that that is my 
motivation in talking about this war now and this predicament that so 
many of these soldiers find themselves in.

I asked the question in 1971: How do you ask a man to be the last man 
to die for a mistake? Although I knew going into public service I 
wanted to be in a place where I could have an impact should there be a 
choice of war in the future, but I never thought that I would be 
reliving the need to ask that question again.

We are there. Most of our colleagues understand this is a mistake. 
Most of our colleagues understand that 21,000 troops is not going to 
pacify Iraq. So all of us have a deep-rooted obligation, a deep moral 
obligation to ask ourselves what we can do to further the interests of 
our Nation and honor the sacrifices of those troops themselves. I think 
it is to get this policy right. I hope the President will truly listen 
to us in these next days because we want to work in good faith to do 
that.

Before I finish, I want to add a note, both personal and political. 
Two years ago I sought the Presidency to lead us on a different course. 
I am proud of the campaign we ran, proud of the fact that 3 years ago I 
said that Iraq was the wrong war, in the wrong place, at the wrong 
time; proud that we defined energy independence and made it, for the 
first time, part of the Presidential race; proud of a health care plan 
that we laid out that to this moment remains viable and waiting to be 
used in order to lower the health care costs for our fellow Americans.

We came close, certainly close enough, to be tempted to try again. 
There are powerful reasons to want to continue that fight now. But I 
have concluded this is not the time for me to mount a Presidential 
campaign. It is time to put my energy to work as part of the majority 
in the Senate to do all I can to end this war and strengthen our 
security and our ability to fight the real war on terror.


The people of Massachusetts have given me an incredible privilege to 
serve, and I intend to work here to change a policy in Iraq that 
threatens all that I have cared about and fought for since I came home 
from Vietnam.

The fact is, what happens here in the next 2 years may irrevocably 
shape or terribly distort the administration of whichever candidate is 
next elected President. Decisions are being taken and put into effect 
today and in the days to come that may leave to the next President a 
wider war, a war even more painful, more difficult, more prolonged than 
the war we already have.

Iraq, if we Senators force a change of course, may yet bring 
stability and an exit with American security intact or it may bring our 
efforts in the region to a failure that we will all recognize as a 
catastrophe.

I don't want the next President to find that he or she has inherited 
a nation still divided and a policy destined to end as Vietnam did, in 
a bitter or sad legacy. I intend to devote all my efforts and energies 
over the next 2 years, not to the race for the Presidency for myself 
but for doing whatever I can to ensure that the next President can take 
the oath with a reasonable prospect of success for him or her--for the 
United States. And I intend to speak the truth as I find it without 
regard for political correctness or partisan advantage, to advise my 
colleagues and my fellow citizens to the best of my ability and 
judgment, and to support every action the Senate may reasonably and 
constitutionally take to guide and direct the ship of state.

This mission, this responsibility, is something all of us must 
accept, and as someone who made the mistake of voting for the 
resolution that gave the President the authority to go to war, I feel 
the weight of a personal responsibility to act, to devote time and 
energy to the national dialog in an effort to limit this war and bring 
our participation to a conclusion.