# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `69649a46b9b266110fd67364449f85c0`
`Ms. LANDRIEU â€” 20 May 2010`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. Mr. President, as Chair of the Committee on Small 
Business and Entrepreneurship, I am pleased to introduce the 
Strengthening Entrepreneurship for America's Veterans Act of 2010. This 
vital and timely legislation builds upon the Small Business 
Administration's, SBA, existing counseling programs that successfully 
assist hundreds of thousands of veterans, service-disabled veterans and 
reservists annually, creating thousands of jobs. By strengthening and 
improving these programs, the SBA will be able to reach even more 
veterans, helping them to achieve their dream of starting or growing 
their own small businesses.

According to the Department of Veteran Affairs, there are currently 
more than 23.8 million veterans in the United States. Since 2001 alone, 
more than 2 million of these servicemembers have been deployed in 
support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. This 
means that every day, hundreds of new veterans are returning home from 
service in Iraq and Afghanistan. Seeking to move on with their lives 
after long deployments, many veterans become entrepreneurs to support 
both themselves and their families.

However, in the face of historically high unemployment and tight 
credit, starting a business has never been more difficult. During the 
111th Congress, the Committee has heard from many small business owners 
throughout the country. They have told me that the programs and 
services currently offered by SBA provide access to important resources 
that enable them to start, grow and expand their businesses. But in the 
face of the worst economic recession since the Great Depression, demand 
for these services is at an all time high. For these reasons, it is 
critical that we do more to help our entrepreneurs and small 
businesses, especially the hundreds of veterans returning home each day 
who are significantly more likely to struggle to find work.

That is why today I am introducing the Strengthening Entrepreneurship 
for America's Veterans Act of 2010. Since the passage of legislation 
establishing the Office of Veterans Business Development, OVBD, in 
1999, the SBA has operated a network of centers and programs that 
provide technical assistance and support to veterans interested in 
starting or growing their own small businesses. This legislation will 
further enhance and improve these existing programs by providing more 
increased access to business counseling and technical assistance 
through a new network of Veterans Business Centers, modeled after the 
successful Small Business Development Centers, SBDC, and Women's 
Business Centers, WBC, programs. The Veterans Business Center Program 
will not only provide services to returning veterans and service-
disabled veterans, but also to the families, spouses and surviving 
spouses of these heroic men and women.

In closing, I would like to thank Senator Snowe for her continued 
leadership on small business issues and especially for her 
cosponsorship of this important legislation. Senator Snowe has been a 
tireless advocate for the many veterans and reservists in her home 
state of Maine and I am pleased to have her support on this 
legislation.

I would also note that many of the provisions in this bill were 
included in S. 1229, the Entrepreneurial Development Act of 2009, which 
I introduced earlier this Congress with Senator Snowe's support. S. 
1229 passed out of Committee with unanimous and bipartisan support in 
June of 2009. However, given the importance of this legislation to our 
more than 23 million veterans, I have decided to reintroduce these 
provisions as a standalone bill. I look forward to working with my 
colleagues in the Senate to bring this legislation to the President's 
desk in the coming months.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.