# IMMIGRATION
## `69a52aac15222aa46b53a69d3da6a470`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, from my State of New Jersey and that 
part of the State in which I live, we can almost touch Lady Liberty. 
She is that close to us from a State park called Liberty State Park, an 
area I had the unique privilege of representing in the House of 
Representatives for 13 years and an area I still represent as the 
junior Senator from New Jersey, an area I have fond memories of because 
of the power of what it means. From that same park we can cross a 
bridge and go to Ellis Island, a place to which millions came to 
America to start a journey, a journey that contributed enormously to 
its great promise, enormously to the great country that it is today.

I rise to discuss the recent cloture vote on immigration with that 
context in mind. The Senate had a historic opportunity to move forward 
today with comprehensive immigration reform that truly secured our 
borders, that realized the economic realities of our time and allowed 
people the opportunity to come out of the shadows into the light to 
earn their legalization.

Unfortunately, the Senate decided to maintain the status quo, a 
status quo of broken borders, that does not meet our economic 
challenges, and that permits human exploitation and trafficking to take 
place.

As someone who was part of the early negotiations back in March of 
this year on the question of immigration reform, I maintained then that 
the administration had leaped away from the largely bipartisan bill of 
last year that received 23 Republican votes and 39 Democratic votes to 
a much more conservative, much more impractical, and a much more 
partisan proposal this year. I was unable to join several of my 
colleagues in what has become known as the grand bargain. I acknowledge 
and appreciate several of those who advocated, because we were only on 
the floor on immigration reform, truly a critical issue for this 
country, as a result of their leadership, colleagues such as Senators 
Kennedy and Salazar and Graham, to name a few, who truly believed in 
that opportunity; at the same time, because of the leadership of the 
majority leader, who was willing to take on one of the most contentious 
issues, an issue that has been contentious throughout our country's 
history. I have often remarked on the floor how on the question of 
immigration, it is interesting to have heard the language of those 
debates at different times in our history.

Ben Franklin referred to no longer being able to accept those who 
were coming to our shores in negative terms. He was talking then about 
the Germans. The former Governor of Massachusetts, in the early 1900s, 
said that, in fact, they are sending the most illiterate of their 
people to our shores. He was talking then about the Irish. In 1925, in 
an official report of the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, they said: 
We need the Mexicans because of their bending and crouching habits 
which the whites cannot attain themselves to in order to pick our 
produce. We had the Chinese exclusionary provisions.

So while this has always been a welcoming country, the debate has not 
been as welcoming. On that day when the ''Grand Bargain'' was 
announced, I came to this Chamber to express my opposition to the deal 
that was announced because I believed it was deficient in some regard 
and to say that I would work to improve it. Looking back at what I said 
then, in light of today's vote, it was strikingly clairvoyant to me, to 
say the least.

I said on that day we must come together not as Democrats and 
Republicans or liberals and conservatives but as statesmen and, in 
doing so, honor the traditions of the Senate as a body that values 
reasoning, honest debate, and compromise over sound bites and talking 
points but especially over the politics of fear.

Unfortunately, today, the voices that appealed to that fear and the 
lowest common denominator won out. Only 12 of our Republican colleagues 
were willing to stand up and vote to invoke cloture, almost half of 
those who voted for last year's bipartisan immigration bill.

Only 12 Republican colleagues were willing to move forward, at least 
for the final essence of debates and amendments, and to a final vote, 
which is about half of those who voted last year for immigration 
reform.

Now, personally, I still had serious concerns about the direction of 
the bill, but I voted to keep it alive because I wanted to work to make 
it better and because I believe in comprehensive immigration reform as 
something that is in the national interest and national security of the 
United States and because America's promise and its security should not 
have been snuffed out by one single vote.

I said back on that day in May that I could not sign on to the 
agreement because it tore families apart, and it says to many they are 
only good enough to work here and give their human capital and slave 
but never good enough to stay here. But instead of responding to those 
erstwhile concerns from those of us willing to be supportive of 
comprehensive immigration reform, the appeal was constantly made to the 
right of the spectrum, to those who actually achieved some of the 
things they wanted in the bill but, obviously, never even intended to 
vote for comprehensive immigration reform--not even to vote to allow it 
to move forward. As it moved to the right, it got less and less support 
from the right.

Unfortunately, instead of working with those of us who were willing 
to not only work to improve this bill but also put our votes where our 
mouths were, they kept giving in to demand after demand from 
conservative Republicans, and in turn this bill moved further and 
further to the right.

In fact, at least two Members who were at the press conference on May 
17 and got things included in the bill voted against keeping this 
process moving forward by voting against cloture today.

Ultimately, in my mind, this came down to a President and a party who 
was, once again, there for the photo


ops and the press conferences but was not willing to roll up their 
sleeves and do the hard work to improve this bill and help it move 
forward for our Nation: a Republican Party that was not about progress 
but about partisanship; a Republican Party that was not about solving 
our Nation's problems but seeking political gain by stopping progress 
of any sort in this Senate; the same President who used large amounts 
of political capital misleading our country into a disastrous war in 
Iraq, with little political capital on truly improving our Nation's 
security through tough yet practical and comprehensive immigration 
reform; a President who used political capital on tax cuts for the 
wealthiest in our country but not on truly meeting our Nation's 
economic needs through fair and comprehensive immigration reform; and 
it is either a President who has no political capital or one who was 
not willing to use it.

Finally, throughout my life, and most recently on the Senate floor, I 
have heard the phrase ''those people''--''those people.'' Those who use 
that phrase are the voices of division and discrimination. They are the 
xenophobes who exist today and have existed at different times in our 
Nation's history but whose voices have ultimately been overcome to give 
way to the greatest successful experiment in the history of mankind--
the United States of America that we know today.

But the last phrase of Emma Lazarus's poem emblazed on the inner wall 
of the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty says:




 I lift my lamp beside the golden door!


Maybe today that lamp is somewhat dimmer, but it will shine again. 
The course of history is unalterable, the human spirit cannot be 
shackled forever, the drumbeat for security, economic vitality and, 
most importantly, justice will only grow stronger.

Finally, to those who have often referred to ''those people'' in this 
debate, let me say on behalf of ''those people,'' we have seen the 
light, and we simply will not be thrust back into the darkness.