# TRIBUTE TO COLONEL GREGG P. OLSON
## `6a483bcefe46fccf32a35d6e81505b73`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 20 June 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today I pay tribute to Col. Gregg Olson, 
USMC, who will complete his 2 year tour of duty with the United States 
Marine Corps' Office of Legislative Affairs on June 24, 2008. I have 
had the pleasure to work with Colonel Olson on many occasions. In his 
role as the Director of the Marine Corps' Senate Liaison Office, he has 
provided superb support, acting as the principal conduit for 
information between the Marine Corps and many members of the Senate. 
His affable personality and attention to duty contributed to a highly 
successful relationship between the United States Senate and the United 
States Marine Corps. Though he will continue his service to the Marine 
Corps and the country, he will be sorely missed.

A native of Rhode Island, Colonel Olson attended the United States 
Naval Academy, and received a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the 
United States Marine Corps in 1985. His career as a Marine officer has 
been exemplary, serving with distinction in every post he has been 
assigned. Prior to his assignment to the United States Senate, he 
served two tours in Iraq,


first as an Operations Officer to a Marine Expeditionary Unit in 2003, 
and then as a Battalion Commander in Fallujah, Iraq in 2004. His 
battalion was involved in the Battle of Fallujah, which saw some of the 
most intense house-to-house fighting of the war. Many proud Marines 
under his command gave their lives in that battle.

Over the past 24 months, his unselfish devotion to duty, exceptional 
performance, and outstanding professionalism have translated into 
invaluable service to the Senate. He has advised Members and Senate 
staff members on matters of great importance to the United States 
Marine Corps. In the fluid nature of the legislative cycle, he 
distinguished himself by establishing and developing great working 
relationships with Senators and their staffs. He responded to thousands 
of congressional inquiries, ranging from such sensitive issues as 
notification of combat casualties, to providing timely information on 
the operations and budget of the Marine Corps.

He also planned and executed approximately 15 international 
congressional delegations. I had the pleasure of traveling on several 
of these congressional delegations with Colonel Olson. His acumen for 
social interaction carried over into Colonel Olson's ability to 
represent his service at numerous Marine Corps and Joint Service social 
events on Capitol Hill. Among others, these events included the Marine 
Corps Birthday Commemoration, the Joint Services Reception, and several 
Marine Corps fall and spring receptions--all important events that 
enabled me and my Senate colleagues to maintain close relationships 
with the Marine Corps' senior leadership.

On behalf of the Senate, I thank Colonel Olson for his continued 
service to the Nation and the United States Marine Corps, and I thank 
his wife, Dawn, for her steadfast support while he fulfilled this 
essential duty. As Gregg departs the Senate to assume command of the 
11th Marine Expeditionary Unit at Camp Pendleton, CA, we in the U.S. 
Senate wish him all the best.
