# THE 30 SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `6b6a608955c1fbaa936774337319de01`
`Mr. ALTMIRE â€” 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. Mr. Speaker, thank you.

We are here tonight with part of the 30 Something Working Group, and 
we are going to talk about what this House has been doing this week. We 
are here, it's late into the evening, and we have been working 
throughout the day on a variety of issues, and we are going to be at 
work tomorrow. I wanted to talk with my colleagues tonight. And we are 
going to have a full house. We are going to be joined by Mr. Murphy 
from Connecticut, Mr. Meek from Florida, Ms. Wasserman Schultz from 
Florida, and Mr. Ryan from Ohio. We are going to have a discussion 
about some of the things that this House has been doing.

We took several significant votes this week, including the vote that 
was just discussed on Iraq. And we are going to discuss the policy in 
Iraq and the vote that we took today.

I wanted to start by talking about the President's veto earlier in 
the week of the Labor-HHS-Education appropriations bill. Now, the 
President has found his veto pen, something that on appropriations 
bills he had not used until this Congress. And I think it's instructive 
to begin this debate by reminding my colleagues, as if they needed 
reminding, that we are talking about an administration that took office 
after 4 consecutive years of record surpluses, 4 consecutive years of 
budget surpluses, that were forecast to continue as far as the eye can 
see. In fact, the 10-year projection for budget surplus beginning in 
2001 was more than $5 trillion of surplus over that 10-year period.



Well, what have we seen instead of that? We've seen seven consecutive 
budget deficits in the 7 years of this administration, deficits that 
are forecast to continue as far as the eye can see. And instead of that 
$5 trillion in surplus, we've seen more than $3 trillion in deficits in 
just 7 years.

So, this administration that's now lecturing us on fiscal 
responsibility and vetoing our appropriations bills, criticizing us for 
spending, this administration saw more than $8 trillion flip from a 
projected $5 trillion surplus to $3 trillion in deficit and counting. 
So, that's the context of what we're talking about.

So, we sent to the President the Labor-HHS-Education appropriations 
bill, which includes programs like low-income energy assistance, home 
heating, the LIHEAP program. Now, I don't think there's anyone in this 
country that has not been affected by the price of oil. And home 
heating is something in the Northeast where I'm from in Pennsylvania, 
and in Connecticut where Mr. Murphy is from, and in Ohio where Mr. Ryan 
is from, the price of home heating has continued to skyrocket. And 
we're going to get into some of the numbers, but that's one of the 
things that's in this bill. Well, I don't think that's excessive 
spending, to help people who would otherwise have their heat turned 
off.

We're talking about funding for community health centers. We're 
talking about funding for Head Start, a program for early childhood 
education. Is there anything more important in this country than early 
childhood education, making sure our children get off to a good start 
and begin their educational careers in a way that we're able to ensure 
that they get off and they're positioned to have the best start 
possible.

Now, what about medical research, the National Institutes of Health?


That's what we're talking about in this bill, funding for medical 
research. Is there anyone in the country that thinks we shouldn't be 
spending money to find cures and treatments for debilitating diseases 
across the board? That's what this bill is. That's what the Labor-HHS-
Education bill funds, and the President vetoed that bill. And we're 
going to have a vote in this House to override that veto, and it's 
going to be a very close vote. We were two votes shy of having a veto 
override majority when the bill passed the House the first time. Two 
votes. That's what stands between us and overriding the President's 
veto.

And I would remind my colleagues as well that we were able to 
override the President's veto just last week. This is not something 
that can't be done. We had a Water Resources Development Act that had 
not passed in 7 full years. It's supposed to be reauthorized every 2 
years. Congress after Congress, in recent years, has been unable to 
pass that bill, so we passed it. And we faced a Presidential veto; the 
President vetoed it. We were able to override that veto overwhelmingly, 
300-plus votes in the House; they got 79 in the other body. And what's 
in that bill? That's another bill that the President, and I outlined 
his record on fiscal responsibility and he wants to lecture us on 
spending, for infrastructure improvements in this country. Building 
levees in New Orleans, does that sound like pork? Building flood 
prevention infrastructure all across this country.

There were projects in that bill in almost every congressional 
district in the country to prevent flooding, to help the waterways 
infrastructure in a way that we're investing for the first time in 7 
years in flood prevention infrastructure. So we overrode that veto 
overwhelmingly. We do have the opportunity to do it again on the Labor-
HHS-Education bill. And we're going to talk more about that.

At this time, I want to yield to my colleague Mr. Murphy from 
Connecticut.