# HONORING OUR MILITARY
## `6c224cc1dc9fddf3ab06363bc3526bfa`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska â€” 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the 
courage


and selflessness of the men and women serving so bravely in America's 
military and, in particular, to acknowledge those from my home State of 
Nebraska. Last week, the testimony of GEN David Petraeus and Ambassador 
Ryan Crocker before the Senate on the situation in Iraq reminded 
everyone of the personal sacrifices of the men and women and their 
families who are serving their country in support of Operations Iraqi 
Freedom and Enduring Freedom.

The United States is engaged in a protracted war for the first time 
since the end of the military draft 35 years ago. The strains of this 
prolonged engagement in Iraq and Afghanistan are underscored by the 
burdens placed on our service members and their families. The voluntary 
nature of our military accentuates these burdens, being borne by a 
relative few. This present situation is unique compared to America's 
past military engagements. World Wars I and II and the conflicts in 
Korea and Vietnam relied on conscription; consequently, the effects of 
these wars were felt by a broad number of ordinary Americans. Today, 
the current wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have placed our soldiers and 
military families in an extraordinary situation.

I have visited Iraq four times and Afghanistan twice since the 
commencement of Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom and have 
met with countless soldiers and their families. Each of these visits 
and meetings has further elevated my personal gratitude and 
appreciation of these men and women, and consequently, these soldiers 
and their families are constantly at the forefront of my thoughts. Last 
week, a news story described the battle of Sadr City, a district in 
Baghdad, Iraq, and featured a young man whom I had watched grow up in 
Nebraska. This news story evoked those same feelings of deep gratitude 
and immense pride.

The soldier featured in the story was Army CPT Logan Veath, of 
Chadron, NE. I had last seen Captain Veath 5 months ago at a reunion of 
the Big Red Battalion, the University of Nebraska's Reserve Officers' 
Training Corps, ROTC, unit, of which he was a member while attending 
our shared alma mater. I had first met Captain Veath when he was 16 
years old, and we reminisced at that reunion of our past experiences 
together. Captain Veath was dressed in cowboy attire--because that is 
exactly what he is in Nebraska. In fact, I almost didn't recognize him 
in the news story from Iraq, as he had a Kevlar helmet on his head 
instead of his usual cowboy hat.

Captain Veath's entire family was also at the reunion, and they 
provided a brief glimpse into how a family copes with a loved one who 
is called upon to serve tours of duty lasting from 12 to 15 months. 
Captain Veath is unique in that this is his sixth tour of duty serving 
in Iraq or Afghanistan. Less than 1 percent of Army service members 
have been deployed six times; this speaks to Captain Veath's remarkable 
dedication and selflessness.

That day was a vivid reminder of our American soldiers, who must 
leave their loved ones in order to serve in battles nearly 7,000 miles 
away from their homes. Today, I offer my most sincere appreciation and 
gratitude to soldiers such as Army CPT Logan Veath. We must never 
forget these brave men and women, who have valiantly and selflessly 
served their country, together with their families, who provide them 
with immeasurable support. Their honor in service must remain a source 
of inspiration for us all.
