# WORLD PRESS FREEDOM DAY
## `6ce0254ad1fd7b4efef0c5b2ed2b1300`
`Mr. SCHIFF â€” 3 May 2007`

---


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, today is World Press Freedom Day, a day that 
the international community has set aside to honor the work and 
sacrifice of journalists around the world.

World Press Freedom Day was first designated by the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization in 1991 as an 
occasion to pay tribute to journalists and to reflect upon the role of 
the media in general in advancing fundamental human rights as codified 
in international law, regional conventions and national constitutions.

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which is the foundation of 
the postwar human rights movement, states the principle broadly in 
article 19. ''Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and 
expression. This right includes freedom to hold opinions without 
interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas 
through any media and regardless of frontiers.'' It may not be as 
eloquent as our first amendment, but its effect is the same.

For Americans, this day should spur us to consider the role that 
journalists play in our society and to ponder what our Nation would be 
like if this cornerstone of our liberty were to be curtailed.

Although most Americans take the concept of a free press for granted, 
I believe that an unfettered press is vital to America's national 
security and to our democracy here at home.

A year ago today, my colleague from Indiana, Mr. Spence, and Senators 
Chris Dodd and Richard Lugar joined me in launching a new bipartisan, 
bicameral caucus aimed at advancing press freedom around the world. The 
Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press creates a forum where the 
United States Congress can work to combat and condemn media censorship 
and the persecution of journalists around the world. The launch of this 
new caucus sends a strong message that Congress will defend democratic 
values and human rights wherever they are threatened.

In launching the caucus, we were encouraged by the wide range of 
organizations and individuals, such as Reporters Without Borders, 
Freedom House, the Committee to Protect Journalists, Musa Klebnikov, 
the widow of Paul Klebnikov, the editor of Forbes Russia, who was shot 
to death outside of his offices 2 years ago, and the legendary Walter 
Cronkite, all of whom enthusiastically endorsed our effort.



Freedom of the press is so central to our democracy that the Framers 
enshrined it in the first amendment of our Constitution. At the time, 
there was little in the way of journalist ethics, and newspapers were 
filled with scurrilous allegations leveled at public figures. Even so, 
our Founders understood its importance to advancing the new Nation's 
experiment in democracy.

In the Virginia Report of 1799-1800, touching the alien and sedition 
laws, James Madison wrote that, ''Some degree of abuse is inseparable 
from the proper use of everything, and in no instance is this more true 
than in that of the press. It has accordingly been decided by the 
practice of the States that it is better to leave a few of its noxious 
branches to their luxuriant growth than by pruning them away to injure 
the vigor of those yielding the proper fruits. And can the wisdom of 
this policy be doubted by any who reflect that to the press alone, 
checkered as it is with abuses, the world is indebted for all the 
triumphs which have been gained by reason and humanity over error and 
oppression, who reflect to the same beneficent source. The United 
States owes much of the lights which conducted them to the rank of a 
free and independent nation and which have improved their political 
system into a shape so auspicious to their happiness.''

Throughout much of our history, Madison's argument has guided our 
national attitude toward the media. Journalists have jealously guarded 
their rights, and American courts have, in the main, carved out broad 
protection for the press. In the United States, the press operates 
almost as a fourth branch of government, the fourth estate, independent 
of the other three and positioned as an agent of the American people.

From the pioneering work of journalists during the Civil War, to the 
muckrakers who were committed to exposing social, economic and 
political ills of industrial life in the early 20th century, to the 
publication of the Pentagon Papers by The New York Times in 1971, to 
the work of Washington Post reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein 
in uncovering the Watergate scandal a year later, journalists have 
performed a crucial role as the watchdogs of our freedom.

But in order for freedom of the press to do its work properly, it 
must be unfettered, and journalists must be able to do their work 
without fear of retribution. Information is power, which is precisely 
why governments, many of them, attempt to control the press to suppress 
opposition and to preempt dissent. Far too often, reporters and editors 
who seek to demand reform, accountability and greater transparency find 
that their livelihoods and even their very lives are in danger. The 
censorship, intimidation, imprisonment and murder of these journalists 
violate not only their personal liberty, but also the rights of those 
who are denied access to these ideas and information.

The United States, as the world's oldest democracy and the greatest 
champion of free expression, has a special obligation to defend the 
rights of journalists wherever and whenever they are threatened. A free 
press is one of the most powerful forces for advancing democracy, human 
rights and economic development. So our commitment to these larger 
objectives requires active engagement in the protection and the 
promotion of this freedom.

These are difficult and dangerous days for reporters around the 
world. According to the New York-based Committee to Protect 
Journalists, 56 journalists were killed in the line of duty in 2006, 
most of whom were murdered to silence or punish them. The toll was 9 
more than the 47 journalists killed in 2005, just the year before, and 
well above average for the last 2 decades of reporting. Another 30 
reporters were killed, but law enforcement authorities cannot confirm 
that their deaths were the result of their work.

Outright murder is not the only tool that the authorities use to 
silence reporters. As of December 1, 2006, 134 journalists were 
imprisoned around the world as a consequence of their work. Of these, 
more than 100 were held by only five countries: China, Cuba, Eritrea, 
Ethiopia, and Burma.

These countries which imprison journalists for straying beyond the 
bounds of official censorship are not the most dangerous for 
journalists, however. Since 1992, more journalists have been killed in 
Iraq, Algeria, Russia, Colombia and the Philippines than anywhere else.

We are all familiar with the dangers inherent in covering war and 
insurgencies, and many of those killed in Iraq, Algeria and Colombia 
have died covering conflicts in these countries. In the Philippines, 
the murder of journalists has been part of a larger campaign against 
perceived left-wing activists.

But it is Russia, where more than 20 journalists have been murdered 
in 6 years since Vladimir Putin succeeded Boris Yeltsin, that we wish 
to address this evening.

All alone among the top five countries where journalists are 
murdered, the deaths of journalists in Russia seem to be part of a 
concerted effort to silence the few remaining journalists who refuse to 
tow the Kremlin line. China, Cuba and others have been rightly 
condemned for imprisoning journalists who raised the ire of their 
governments. Moscow seems to have taken a different tack. Instead of 
censoring jailing journalists it doesn't like, the Kremlin seems to 
look the other way when they turn up dead.

There is no direct evidence tying the Putin government to the murder 
of journalists in Russia, but there is a wealth of circumstantial 
evidence pointing to at least acquiescence in the death of journalists.

The number of journalists killed, the circumstances of their deaths, 
the stories they were working on, and perhaps most telling, the fact 
that not one of the crimes has been successfully prosecuted involving 
the murder of these journalists in Russia, is indicative of a 
deliberate decision not to dig too deeply into these murders.

Others hint at something darker. In an editorial the Washington Post 
recently stated, ''The instances of violence against journalists in Mr. 
Putin's Russia and of the brutal elimination of his critics both at 
home and abroad have become so common that it is impossible to explain 
them all as coincidences.''

The evolution of Russian journalism from its dismal Soviet past to 
its current role as the Kremlin's sycophant is distressing. During the 
latter part of the 1980s, Mikhail Gorbachev loosened many of the Soviet 
era's restrictions on the press and the Soviet media became an 
important player in Gorbachev's policy of Glasnost.

Under Gorbachev, journalists began to explore the full range of 
issues that had remained hidden for so long by the Soviet Government, 
the Afghan war, the gulags, the miserable performance of the Soviet 
economy and the endemic corruption of Soviet society were laid bare. 
There is little doubt that the Soviet media's revelations were a 
catalyst in the disintegration of the Soviet Union.

In the immediate post-Soviet era, the Russian press foundered as the 
economy collapsed, but the first Chechen war, which lasted from 1994 to 
1996, revitalized Russian journalism. Television was especially 
powerful, and its coverage of the war turned millions of Russians 
against the conflict. In many respects, this period was the high 
watermark for an independent press in Russia.

But even as NTV and other television outlets helped to shape domestic 
opposition to the Chechen war, Russian journalism was shedding its 
independence. As Michael Specter wrote in the New Yorker about this 
period in Russia, ''The moral tone of the journalist's world began to 
shift from idealistic to mercenary. The practice of writing biased news 
articles for money became routine, even at the best papers. Restaurant 
owners, businessmen and public officials knew that, for the right 
price, it would bring them favorable coverage almost anywhere.''

This distortion of the journalistic creed of objectivity and 
neutrality was exacerbated in 1996 when President Yeltsin, whose 
support and opinion polls had fallen into the low single digits, faced 
off against Communist Gennady Zyuganov in the Russian presidential 
election. Knowing that without third-party intervention Yeltsin was 
doomed and that Zyuganov would reimpose control over the media, 
Russia's media elite intervened.

Over the course of the campaign, NTV and other media outlets 
collectively swayed Russian public opinion and Yeltsin ended up 
winning. But the


damage was done. As a former anchor for NTV told the New Yorker's 
Michael Specter, the election ''put a poisoned seed into the soil, and 
even if we did not see why, the authorities understood at once mass 
media could very easily be manipulated to achieve any goal. Whether the 
Kremlin needed to raise the rating of a president or bring down an 
opponent or conduct an operation to destroy a businessman, the media 
could do the job.''



Once the Kremlin understood it could use journalists as instruments 
of its will and saw that journalists would go along, everything that 
happened in the Putin era was, sadly, quite logical.

The ascension of Vladimir Putin to the Russian presidency cemented 
the link between Russia's rulers and the press. Even without government 
censorship, the press has become a passive booster of the president's 
efforts to centralize authority and to restore Russia to its former 
status as a great power. To that end, the Russian media has ignored the 
corruption and cronyism that has become institutionalized in Russia 
since the Yeltsin period, and has largely been uncritical of the 
prosecution of the second Chechnyan war which has raged for nearly 8 
years.

But even as the vast majority of their colleagues censor themselves 
and follow the Kremlin line, a few brave journalists have dared to 
investigate, to question, and criticize. Journalistic independence in 
Russia is dangerous. And in a few minutes we will introduce you to some 
of the journalists whose brave voices have been stilled.

When my colleague arrives back on the floor, Mike Pence, I will 
introduce him. He has been a leading voice in the House on human rights 
and serves as the other co-chair of our Congressional Caucus For 
Freedom of the Press.

But this evening I will start in highlighting the Russian journalists 
who have lost their lives by talking about Ivan Safronov, who died in 
early March of this year after falling from a fifth floor stairwell 
window in his apartment building in Moscow.

He was a correspondent at Kommersant, and is the most recent 
journalist in Russia to die under a cloud of suspicion. Russian 
officials quickly called his death a suicide. However, according to 
colleagues of his at Kommersant, he had a very happy family life and 
had no motive to commit suicide. It was not until Kommersant and some 
other news media suggested foul play that the authorities agreed to 
investigate the circumstances of Mr. Safronov's death.

According to his editors, Mr. Safronov, a military affairs writer, 
was working on a story about Russian plans to sell weapons to Iran and 
Syria via Belarus. Mr. Safronov had been a colonel in the Russia Space 
Forces prior to reporting for Kommersant. He frequently angered 
authorities with his critical reporting and was repeatedly questioned 
by Federal authorities which suspected him of divulging state secrets. 
One such report that Mr. Safronov filed that angered officials revealed 
the third consecutive launch failure of a new Bulava intercontinental 
ballistic missile. This had been a pet project of President Putin's 
which was supposed to show the world Russia's nuclear strength.

Strangely enough, no charges were ever brought up against Mr. 
Safronov. He was well aware that he was reporting on a sensitive issue 
and was very careful in his work always to have a way to prove he was 
not divulging state secrets. He was known for making meticulous notes 
and conducting thorough research so he could always prove he got his 
information from known sources.

It would seem that sadly Mr. Safronov's reporting was too good and 
the only way to silence him was by eliminating him. Mr. Safronov is not 
on either of the lists of journalists that we have tonight to highlight 
because his death is so recent. But his tragic death is another example 
of the lack of progress being made to protect journalists in Russia.

Before I begin highlighting 13 of the journalists on the committee to 
protect journalists of the most recently murdered journalists in 
Russia, I would like to introduce my colleague from Indiana, Mike 
Pence, who is one of the co-chairs of the caucus and does a superb job 
advocating for the rights of the media.