# SENATE RESOLUTION 302--CENSURING THE PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT
## `6d653f819ed226534126771572961ce2`
`Mr. FEINGOLD â€” 3 August 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, today I am introducing two censure 
resolutions condemning the President, Vice President, and Attorney 
General for their misconduct relating to the war in Iraq and for their 
repeated assaults on the rule of law. These censure resolutions are 
critical steps to hold the administration accountable for the 
misconduct and egregious abuses of the law that we have witnessed over 
the past 6/1/2/ years.

When future generations look back at the misbehavior of this 
administration, they need to know that an equal branch of Government 
stood up and formally repudiated that misbehavior. They need to know 
that this administration was not allowed to violate with impunity the 
principles on which our Nation was founded.

Some have said that censure does too little. Others protest that it 
goes too far. I understand the concerns of those who believe that this 
administration deserves worse than censure. I agree that censure is not 
a cure for the devastating toll this administration's actions have had 
on this country. But it is a step in the right direction and it most 
certainly is important for the historical record. Because censure does 
not require multiple impeachments in the House and trials in the 
Senate, or the support of two-thirds of Senators, it is far less 
cumbersome than impeachment. We can pass these resolutions without 
taking significant time away from our efforts to address other pressing 
matters.

The first resolution, S. Res. 302, cosponsored by Senators Harkin and 
Boxer, censures the President and Vice President for their misconduct 
relating to the war in Iraq. It cites their misleading pre-war 
statements, which


were not based on available intelligence, exaggerating the threat posed 
by Saddam Hussein and the likelihood that he had nuclear weapons, and 
falsely implying that he had a relationship with al Qaeda and links to 
9/11. This resolution also condemns the President's appalling failure 
to ensure that adequate plans were in place to address the post-Saddam 
problems predicted by the intelligence community, and in particular his 
failure to ensure that sufficient troops were deployed to maintain 
order and secure weapons stockpiles in Iraq. The resolution censures 
the President for pursuing policies in Iraq that have placed unfair 
burdens on our brave men and women in uniform and undermined our 
homeland security. The resolution censures the Vice President for his 
misleading statements about the Iraqi insurgency being in its ''last 
throes.'' The Vice President's recent, belated concession that he was 
incorrect does not mitigate his efforts to mislead the American people 
on this point.

The second resolution, S. Res. 303, cosponsored by Senator Harkin, 
censures the President and Attorney General for undermining the rule of 
law. The President and Attorney General have shown flagrant disregard 
for statutes, for treaties ratified by the United States, and for our 
own Constitution--all in an effort to consolidate more and more power 
in the executive branch. In the process, they have repeatedly misled 
the American people. Among the abuses of the rule of law that this 
censure resolution addresses are the illegal warrantless wiretapping 
program at the National Security Agency, the administration's 
interrogation policy, extreme positions taken on treatment of detainees 
that have been repeatedly rejected by the Supreme Court, misleading 
statements by the President and the Attorney General on the USA PATRIOT 
Act, the refusal to recognize and cooperate with Congress's legitimate 
responsibility to conduct oversight, and the use of signing statements 
that further demonstrate this President does not believe he has to 
follow the laws that Congress writes.

More than a year ago, I introduced a resolution to censure the 
President for breaking the law with his warrantless wiretapping program 
and for misleading the public and Congress before and after the program 
was revealed. This time, I am taking a broader approach because 
evidence of the administration's misconduct, misleading statements and 
abuses of power has only mounted since then.

While I do not believe impeachment proceedings would be best for the 
country, I share the public's deep anger at this administration's 
repeated and serious wrongdoing and its refusal to acknowledge or 
answer for its actions. These two resolutions give Congress a way to 
condemn the administration's actions without taking time and energy 
away from the other critically important work before us.

Passing these resolutions would also make clear, not only to the 
American people today, but also to future generations, how this 
President and this administration misserved the country. History will 
judge them, and us, by our actions, so we must formally condemn the 
malfeasance of this President and his administration.

Censure is a measured approach that both holds this administration 
accountable and allows Congress to focus on ending the war in Iraq, 
protecting the rule of law and addressing the many other needs of the 
American people. I am pleased to be working with Congressman Maurice 
Hinchey, who is introducing companion legislation.
