# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `6dd3d20056f428f76d31a89751c8eeef`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. I am very appreciative of the remarks of the Senator from 
South Carolina. His eloquence is both compelling and informative.

I thank my friend from Connecticut for his amendment.

Mr. President, there has been printed in the Record an article by 
Senator Lieberman of Friday July 6, 2007, that appeared in the Wall 
Street Journal.

I hope many of my colleagues will find the time to read this piece by 
Senator Lieberman.

My friends from South Carolina and from Connecticut have made the 
arguments on behalf of the present strategy. One of the aspects of this 
debate we are in will center to some degree around Iranian influence in 
Iraq and the need for, or not, face-to-face talks with Iran. Let me 
make it clear in the beginning that I think America should be ready to 
talk to anybody at any time under any circumstances as long as somehow 
it isn't injurious to America's prestige or cause. But I think those 
who would come to this floor and argue about the need for face-to-face 
talks with the Iranians and how somehow that is the Rosetta Stone or 
nirvana--something that all we need to do is sit down and talk face to 
face with the Iranians--should be aware of the recent experience we 
have had with the Iranians. There were talks between Washington and 
Tehran last month in Baghdad, and the subject was security issues. Many 
of us were aware of those.

I quote the chief military spokesman, BG Kevin Bergner:




 There absolutely is evidence of Iranian operatives holding 


 weapons, training fighters, providing resources, helping plan 


 operations, resourcing secret cells that is destabilizing 


 Iraq.



 We would like very much to see some action on their part to 


 reduce the level of effort and help contribute to Iraq's 


 security. We have not seen it yet.


Obviously, we know that tensions between the United States and Iran 
are very high, especially after the United States seized five Iranians 
earlier this year in northern Iraq for which there was clear and 
compelling evidence they were helping the insurgents. We also know Iran 
has five U.S. Iranian citizens held on ''security-related charges,'' a 
gross violation of human rights. I am surprised there is not more 
outrage in the United States over this basic kidnapping of American 
citizens.

The important part of this discussion is that our Ambassador to Iraq, 
Mr. Ryan Crocker, met with his Iranian counterpart last month in 
Baghdad. I know I share the view of most people who have had interface 
with Ambassador Crocker that he is one of the finest who has ever 
served in the Foreign Service as a diplomat and representative of the 
United States in all parts of the Middle East. One of the issues 
Ambassador Crocker raised was the type of roadside bomb which cuts 
through armor and is most lethal that is being supplied by the 
Iranians. Tehran's response last week was that they would study a 
request from Baghdad for a second meeting but warned the decision may 
take weeks.

Our No. 2 U.S. diplomat, Daniel Speckhard, said:




 We do not yet have another meeting scheduled for that 


 dialogue with Iraq and Iran.


He said the first meeting produced general assurances that Tehran had 
a common interest in seeing a stable Iraq on its border, but these 
words had not been matched by deeds.

In other words, we have had a meeting with the Iranians. We have had 
various representations and representatives approach the Iranians on 
this issue. We have tried very hard and we will continue to try very 
hard to convince the Iranians that chaos in Iraq is not in their 
interest. I am not talking about U.S. interest but their interest. But 
it seems, as Daniel Speckhard said, what we have seen during the first 
meeting is, from our perspective, a sense that their actions were out 
of line with their stated goals and objectives.

Relations between the two countries obviously are being strained by 
Iran's nuclear program, which, in the minds of most experts, is by no 
means peaceful.

As I said at the beginning of my remarks, and this will be part of 
one of the amendments that is proposed, the United States should engage 
in face-to-face talks with the Iranians. That is fine. As I say, it is 
fine with me as long as it doesn't undermine U.S. prestige and enhance 
the prestige of a nation that continues to say things such as:




 Anybody who recognizes Israel will burn in the fire of the 


 Islamic nation's fury.



 Remove Israel before it is too late and save yourself from 


 the fury of regional nations.



 Israel is a tyrannical regime that one day will be 


 destroyed.


We are supposed to sit down in face-to-face negotiations with a 
government


whose President said, concerning the Holocaust:




 They have invented a myth that Jews were massacred and 


 place this above God, religions and the prophets.



 The real Holocaust is what is happening in Palestine where 


 the Zionists avail themselves of the fairy tale of Holocaust 


 as blackmail and justification for killing children and women 


 and making innocent people homeless.


That is the rhetoric of the Government of Iran.

I hope we can convince them that an al-Qaida-significant presence in 
Iraq and increased chaos in the region is not in Iran's long-term 
interests because we need them. We need them to join with us in trying 
to bring about some kind of stability in the region. I hope that will 
happen.

I note the presence of the deputy Democratic leader on the floor. As 
I have discussed with the Senator from Michigan, the distinguished 
chairman, we are prepared to vote at whatever the leader's convenience 
is. It is my understanding--if I could have the attention of the 
Senator from Michigan--that after that, according to our conversation--