# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `6e1634de46051f35407fab4edf9d3906`
`Mr. BOEHNER â€” 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Let me thank my colleague from Florida for yielding.

Let me just say that the gentleman from Wisconsin, the chairman of 
the committee, is a Member that I know well and have great respect for, 
and along with the gentleman from Florida and the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania, they have spent over 30 years doing everything they could 
to support our troops. But if you think that the debate that we are 
having tonight is something that we have heard before, it is. Over 40 
times this year, we have had votes and debates in this house on the 
issue of Iraq.

Let me just say that my colleague from Wisconsin is known for his 
famous statement about Members coming to the floor of the House posing 
for ''holy pictures.'' Now, if there has ever been a case over my 17 
years here in Congress of people posing for holy pictures, it is over 
this issue of Iraq.

When I came to the Congress in 1991 as a brand new Member, my first 
vote in this Chamber was on whether to go to war with the Iraqis in 
Kuwait. I remember coming here as a brand new Member, Members in the 
well of this House who had been here 30 and 40 years, tears in their 
eyes, talking about this being the most difficult vote they had ever 
cast. It was a very difficult moment for me and all of my colleagues. 
But we went through that, and we went through it successfully.

So when we have the issue of war debated here on the floor of the 
Congress, there is no issue, no issue that is more personal, no issue 
that is of greater significance to our country, than all of us casting 
our vote on sending our young men and women into battle anywhere 
overseas. So I understand the passion that we have on both sides of the 
aisle over this issue.

But I think we all have to understand that we are in Iraq for a very 
important reason. We went there to get rid of Saddam Hussein. I think 
everybody understands that. We went there to make sure that the weapons 
of mass destruction were gone. They are gone. Where they went, I don't 
think we will ever know. We went there to set up a democratically 
elected government, and, frankly, we have succeeded.

It was al Qaeda 3 years ago that made Iraq the central front in their 
war with us. We didn't start this war with al Qaeda. They did. And as 
the gentleman from Florida pointed out earlier, it didn't start on 9/
11, it started back in the early eighties. And it persisted through the 
eighties and the nineties, and America and the rest of the world looked 
up, looked away, and just hoped the problem would go away.

Well, it didn't go away. After 3,000 of our fellow citizens died on 
9/11, what was America to do? Look up, look away and just hope the 
problem would go away one more time? No. So we went to Iraq. But it was 
al Qaeda and it was Iran who have made this the central front in their 
war with us.

America has no choice but to succeed in our efforts in Iraq. We all 
know what failure in Iraq will bring. Failure in Iraq brings a 
destabilization of Iraq itself, a safe haven for the terrorists to 
operate from, a destabilization of the entire Middle East, the end of 
Israel as we know it, and who doesn't believe that if we leave Iraq and 
we leave in failure, that the terrorists don't follow us home and that 
we have to deal with the problem here on the streets of America?

This is not what America wants. America wants us to succeed, and it 
is success that we are having in Iraq. You all know the statistics. You 
have all seen the headlines over the last several weeks and the last 
several months. Our troops in Iraq are doing a marvelous job on our 
behalf. They are succeeding. They are training the Iraqi Army to take 
our place. The Iraqi Army is more


out in front than ever before. The amount of violence in Iraq is down 
significantly. Our troops, our troops, are dying in less numbers each 
and every day. Why? Because we are having success there.

So we ought to thank our troops, thank our troops for the great job 
they are doing, because General Petraeus put forward a plan that is 
working.

Now, I understand that a lot of my colleagues on the other side have 
invested all their political capital over the course of this year in 
failure in Iraq. It hasn't happened, thankfully, because for the good 
of our Nation, not today, not tomorrow, maybe not next week, but for my 
kids and their kids, success in Iraq is critically important. And I 
think all the Members in this Chamber understand just how important 
success is there. We are taking on an enemy that is growing in all 
parts of the world, and if we are not willing to take them on in Iraq, 
if we are not willing to draw the line and defeat them, where will we 
draw the line? Where will we stand up for America, and where will we 
stand up for American values? Iraq is the place to do it.

The bill that we have before us goes back to the same old tired plan, 
the plan for failure, if you will. That is what the bill that we have 
before us does. It ties the hands of the administration, it ties the 
hands of our generals, it ties the hands of our people on the ground, 
and it will lead to nothing other than failure.

We have been down this path. We have been down this path all year 
long. And I will admit to my colleagues, we have had plenty of mistakes 
that have been made in Iraq. There has never been a war when there 
haven't been a lot of mistakes made. You can go back to the Civil War 
and look at all the mistakes that were made. The First World War, the 
Second World War, Vietnam, there were a lot of mistakes that got made 
in wars, and mistakes have been made in this war.

But, ladies and gentlemen, you all know that we have no choice, no 
choice, but to succeed, and the plan that we have before us, to fund 
our troops for the next 4 months, will lead to nothing other than 
failure.

So I am going to ask my colleagues, let's stop the political games. 
We all know what is going on here. It is another political stunt, 
another political stunt trying to trap the President, trying to trap 
the generals and putting handcuffs on them. Let's stop it.

I think my colleagues on both sides of the aisle want us to succeed. 
Instead of playing these political games, what we ought to be doing is 
passing this bill cleanly. And we ought to be passing the Military 
Quality of Life Veterans bill, because our troops are coming home. We 
have got 3,000 troops that have been sent out of Diyala on their way 
home. We are going to have troops coming home all year. And if we don't 
pass the Military Quality of Life Veterans bill, the benefits they are 
entitled to, the services we ought to be providing to those veterans 
coming home will not be there.

So let's vote ''no'' on this bill. Let's find a way this week to make 
sure that the veterans bill is up on this floor and passed and in the 
President's hands.