# THE COUNTDOWN CREW
## `6ef0be560912b9c7dd1d07f2a358b6e9`
`Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky â€” 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. I just want to share, those who are joining us 
tonight have joined the Countdown Crew. We meet the first night of 
votes each legislative week. We can be reached by e-mail at 
CountdownCrew@mail.
house.gov.

And the one thing that I would like to share from my perspective, we 
hear a lot of statements about a desire to support the troops. And I 
have said for the last 2/1/2/ years that, if we say we support the 
troops, it is important that we listen to what they have to say. As a 
former member of the 82nd Airborne Division and other military units 
with comrades serving in all the major line Army units, commanding 
brigades, serving on the senior staffs, receiving e-mail reports on a 
weekly basis, even from a platoon leader who is in Sadr City right now, 
we get a somewhat different perspective on the politics and debates 
that are going on back here in the House Chamber. And I would say this 
from a perspective of looking at the fiscal implications of decisions.

When we talk about the supplemental spending, the vast majority of 
money, and the original clean bill before politics got involved was 
designed for one thing, it was designed for troop support, it was 
designed for equipment reset, it was designed to provide support for 
provincial reconstruction teams for the transition of Iraqi security 
forces to be effective in their mission on the ground.

Unfortunately, due to the Hatch Act, the troops themselves don't have 
a voice where they can come into this Chamber and debate, and so as we 
have seen on numerous occasions, opinion is often substituted for fact. 
And it is an honest opinion; it is an honest viewpoint. I think we have 
honest disagreements. I think one thing that both sides can agree on is 
that there were strategic mistakes that were made early in the campaign 
due to institutional infrastructure and process issues that are endemic 
in the United States Government and need to be reformed.

But the truth of the matter, at the moment, is we have people in 
harm's way that are deployed forward who actually watch C-SPAN, who 
watch these debates. Many of them are friends of mine that I have known 
for well over 30 years and we have served together, a number of us 
served together in the Middle East. And the perspective that I would 
bring is this when we talk about emergency supplemental spending, and 
it comes back to an aspect of fiscal responsibility, to the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania's point earlier: a supplemental spending bill is 
designed specifically to augment needs that were not covered in 
regularly budgeted, authorized, or appropriated lines.



And to put this into context, there are many divisions in the 
Congress, particularly in the Democratic Caucus, regarding the war. We 
are all well aware of them. I have many friends on both sides of the 
aisle. There are honest disagreements and disputes. But the one thing, 
to quote my friend, Hal Rogers from Kentucky, where he said, 
''Attention K-Mart shoppers,'' at the end of the appropriations hearing 
last week. ''A variety of spending provisions have been placed in a 
military supplemental bill that have nothing to do with national 
security in order to encourage those to vote for it.''

And I want to put this into context, that over $20 billion in 
nonmilitary, nonnational security spending has been included. They 
include $283 million in milk subsidies that are already funded in other 
programs. It includes $74 million for peanut storage.

Now, when I went to flight school at Fort Rucker, Alabama, at the 
U.S. Army Aviation Center, there were two great economic engines in the 
area. One was the United States Army Aviation Center that trained the 
pilots for the U.S. Army, the rotary wing force that provides our air 
assault and attack helicopter capability worldwide today, and also the 
peanut industry. The last time I checked, the peanut industry was not 
directly related to American national security.

Twenty-five million dollars are in payments to spinach producers on a 
national security supplemental bill. And this also rescinds $89 million 
in homeland security funding that allegedly would have lapsed in fiscal 
year 2006.

The reason that I bring these up, and the billions of dollars in 
spending, is


not to highlight honest disagreements about policy issues which have a 
rightful place in this Chamber.

And my friends on the other side are certainly entitled to their 
views, the basis of their perception. I certainly have my views on the 
subject which are different from many in the administration and on my 
side of the aisle as well. But the one thing that I will share is let's 
translate these dollars into reality from a fiscal perspective.

When Secretary Gates came over to testify before the Armed Services 
Committee in his first hearing in January of 2007, the first major 
request, and I was very heartened by this, was a request to increase 
the end strength of the United States Army by 96,000 soldiers. Now, why 
that number is important, I have advocated for nearly 5 years for a 
100,000 soldier increase to the end strength to deal with and augment 
the operations tempo that our troops have experienced since the draw-
downs in the mid-1990s. The rate and the pace of that transition is 
very significant upon our soldiers. And as a matter of fiscal 
responsibility for the investment that we have made in them and the 
commitment that we have made to them, I think it is important that we 
see that increase. And I was very heartened to see an acceptance of 
that need in the civilian appointed leadership of the Defense 
Department.

But here is the fiscal issue. When we talk about $20 billion in 
nonmilitary spending that were put on that supplemental bill, here is 
what $1 billion means. Regardless of your views on national security, 
$1 billion roughly translates into 10,000 fully equipped light infantry 
soldiers and fully trained and accessed into the military.

The reason that that number is important to keep in mind, at the end 
of the day, as we talk about force structure and staffing, I would ask 
my friends, would it have not been a more prudent use of our national 
security dollars and emergency supplemental, rather than going for 
programs or peanuts and spinach and the milk program, which I think 
would be more appropriately addressed jurisdictionally in the farm 
bill, to use that money, if there was a need, to assess it for troop 
training, to augment the needs for the conflicts that we are going to 
be facing in the 21st century, which are going to be significant. And I 
think that those conflicts would have come regardless of our policies 
there.

But nonetheless, this approach, I believe, is a poor use of fiscal 
stewardship and begs the real question at the end of the day of what we 
actually have voted for from a policy change, a world view change when 
we changed Speakers in January. As I have shared with many when we get 
asked about how is this going to be paid for, every working family in 
America making between $30- and $50,000 will have a $2,098 tax increase 
if those tax cuts are not extended and made permanent by 2010.

And with that I will yield back to the gentleman, but I just wanted 
to clarify that point from a national security perspective. Understand 
that it would be helpful for, I think, the American people to 
understand there are many nongermane issues and spending lines that 
have been added on this bill that have nothing to do with our current 
national security situation.