# None
## `6f244638ff0e6f24d031bbd1f6c5cfc9`
`Mr. CUMMINGS â€” 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1585, the 
National Defense Authorization Act, NDAA, for Fiscal Year 2008. This 
legislation is vital to preventing terrorism and suppressing potential 
rogue states by updating our defense systems, which will in turn 
protect the future of our Nation and our men and women at home.

The ill-advised war in Iraq has put historic strains on our armed 
services.

Our readiness is at an all-time low not witnessed since the 1970s. 
The Army National Guard is operating with only 56 percent of its 
overall equipment needs.

Therefore, Mr. Speaker, the funding and enactment of this bill is 
crucial. By authorizing $692.3 billion for defense and energy-defense 
related initiatives in 2008, this bill will strengthen our military. It 
will also honor our veterans with the efficient and cutting edge health 
care they more than deserve.

I am proud to say that an amendment that I introduced during the 
consideration of the NDAA before the House Committee on Armed Services 
makes certain that the voices of veterans are heard by vesting the 
Secretary of Veterans' Affairs with the power to appoint two members to 
the oversight board that will evaluate the current system and care 
provided to our veterans and active servicemembers.

Working diligently with the House Armed Services Committee, many of 
my recommendations to the NDAA bill regarding Operation Iraqi Freedom 
are included in the baseline text of this bill.

Namely, these recommendations address the need for proper oversight 
of the reconstruction efforts, putting an end to slanted no-bid 
contracts, along with the sharing and distribution of oil revenue 
resources to the Iraqi people so as to foster adequate reconstruction 
and facilitate national reconciliation.

Moreover, I am proud to have worked with my friend and colleague on 
the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Loebsack, in the 
adoption of our joint amendment at full committee, which requires 
Secretary Gates, General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker to provide 
perpetual reports to Congress on the status and implementation of the 
Joint Campaign Plan, JCP, and the Iraqi Government's efforts to 
implement political reform until the end of U.S. combat operations in 
Iraq.

As such this amendment ensures that Congress is supplied with (1) the 
information necessary to provide proper and constructive oversight of 
our progress in Iraq, (2) sheds light on the conditions faced by our 
troops on the ground, and (3) supplies Congress with the crucial 
information needed to determine a responsible and timely troop 
redeployment.

While violence has dropped in Iraq, there is a window of opportunity 
for the Iraqi Government to make serious strides to achieve political 
reform and in doing so strategically bring our troops home. Therefore, 
while we continue to urge this administration to shift policy in Iraq 
to one that is driven by multilateral and bilateral diplomatic 
initiatives, we must also ensure that our remaining troops in Iraq are 
supplied with the support that they need. This bill provides over $17.6 
billion for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles and $8 billion to 
buy medium and heavy tactical trucks fast enough to replace battle 
losses and to meet National Guard requirements, which are currently at 
dangerously low levels.

Mr. Speaker, while we may be divided on the war in Iraq, we, must be 
united in guaranteeing that our brave men and women in uniform are well 
rested, well trained and well equipped--and that our veterans receive 
the services they deserve. We must also be united in ensuring that 
taxpayer dollars are spent as effectively and efficiently as possible. 
Therefore, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this critical 
defense bill.