# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `6fe482bc46a9a38740fc4e81edaa0871`
`Mr. REED â€” 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, today we are facing a critical juncture 
regarding our operations in Iraq. We can continue with a policy that is 
straining our military, putting excruciating strain on our military and 
their families, which is diminishing our standing in the international 
community and which is rapidly losing the support of the American 
public--in sum, a policy that cannot be sustained--or we can change, we 
can make a transition of this mission to focus on objectives that are 
feasible, to begin a reduction in our forces which will relieve the 
stress on our military and their families, to initiate complementary 
and comprehensive diplomatic, political, and economic efforts to engage 
Iraq's neighbors and the rest of the world in bringing a degree of 
stability to that country.



I believe it is time for such a change. That is why I have joined 
many of my colleagues, particularly Senator Levin, to propose an 
amendment to do that. This amendment would first call for a beginning 
of a reduction of American military forces 120 days after the passage 
of the legislation. It would give the President the flexibility to pick 
the precise moment and the precise number of forces and to develop a 
timetable for their departure. Then it would call for the transition to 
specific missions by next spring, and those missions would include 
counterterrorism operations, since we can never give up in our attempts 
to preemptively attack and destroy terrorist cells--not just in Iraq 
but in, unfortunately, many other parts of the world.

Second, it would allow the American forces to continue to train Iraqi 
security forces.

Third, it would clearly state we will protect our forces wherever 
they are, particularly in Iraq.

It also talks about a very comprehensive diplomatic effort. One of 
the dramatic failings of this administration has been a one-dimensional 
policy--military force alone, in most cases unilateral military force. 
That one-dimensional policy defies strategy, it defies the operational 
techniques of counterinsurgency, and effectively, I think, has led us, 
in large part, to Iraq today where we are in a very difficult 
situation.

As all of our commanders have said persistently over the course of 
this entire conflict: Military operations alone will not lead to 
success. They will buy time, they might provide some political space, 
but they will not lead to success. They are merely a complement and a 
prelude to the economic, to the political, to the nonmilitary forces 
that are essential to prevail in a counterinsurgency, stabilize a 
country, and to ultimately prevail in the type of operation we are 
witnessing in Iraq.

I believe the President had an opportunity last January to chart a 
new course. The American people spoke very clearly in the November 
elections. They wanted change. The Iraqi Study Group, a combination of 
some of the most gifted minds on both sides of the aisle with respect 
to foreign policy, gave a framework that talked about and hoped for a 
redeployment of American forces and significant engagement in 
diplomatic activities. All of this was at the hands of the President. 
He essentially said, no, we are going to do a lot more of the same--or 
a little more of the same. I think at that point, frankly, the American 
people understood the President wasn't listening or, if he was, it was 
not getting through.

As a result, I think they began to become very much disenchanted with 
the course of action of this administration. I don't have to tell 
anyone in this Chamber or across the globe that this is a decisive 
turning point in their demands that we act, that this Senate and the 
House of Representatives take significant action. We are trying to 
respond to that legitimate concern of the American people by the Levin-
Reed amendment that we have proposed.

The President said the goals for the surge were to support Iraqi 
efforts to quell sectarian violence, ensure territorial integrity and 
counter Iranian and Syrian activity, encourage strong democratic 
institutions, and foster the conditions for Iraqi national 
reconciliation.

The heart of it, as he suggested and others have, was to give the 
Iraqi leaders the ability to make tough political decisions which were 
essential to their future and to our continued engagement in Iraq.

Principally among them was to jump start the reconciliation process, 
bring the Sunni community into government and the civic life of Iraq, 
to pass legislation to fairly distribute the proceeds of oil revenue, 
the major source of revenue in that country, and to take other steps--
including provincial elections. None of that has been effectively 
accomplished.

So if the premise of the surge was to create tactical momentum for 
political progress, some tactical momentum may be there but very 
little, if any, political progress. That, I believe, is the reality.

These goals, this effort was difficult for an extra 30,000 troops to 
accomplish. But it was made much more difficult because of a series of 
fundamental operational mistakes and strategic flaws that this 
administration has been engaged in since the beginning of their 
operations in Iraq. We know that soon after we arrived in Baghdad, 
after a very successful conventional attack, there were insufficient 
forces to occupy the country and chaos broke out. The Coalition 
Provisional Authority, the CPA, embarked on a debaathification program 
that denied employment and livelihood and, in a sense, hope to 
thousands of individuals--teachers, bureaucrats--who had been part of 
the prior regime, mostly because it was the only way they could hold 
their jobs, and left, particularly the Sunni community, in a situation 
where they questioned whether there was a place for them in the new, 
emerging government.


The CPA disestablished the Army; 500,000 individuals with training 
suddenly found themselves without a future and very quickly many of 
them found themselves in the insurgency, for many reasons. The 
Government, the administration, failed to garner support from regional 
powers to help.

Then the administration embarked on a series of elections. These 
elections demonstrated the procedure of democracy. But what they failed 
to grasp, the administration particularly, is that elections alone are 
insufficient unless there is a governmental capacity to translate those 
elections into an effective government that serves the needs of its 
citizens. So we have demonstrations of thousands of Iraqis, hundreds of 
thousands, millions going to the polls. But what happened is they 
didn't elect a functioning government. They became even more frustrated 
when they recognized that the Government in Baghdad today doesn't work 
for them.

All of this was summed up, I think very accurately, by former 
Secretary of Defense William Perry, on January 25, before the Armed 
Services Committee, where he stated:




 We may never know whether our goal of achieving a 


 democratic stable government in Iraq was in fact feasible, 


 since the administration's attempts to do so were so burdened 


 with strategic errors.


So we start now in a real strategic deficit. Unfortunately, I think 
the President continues in that vein. The President announced the surge 
in January: 30,000, roughly, additional forces. It took them many 
months finally to get in place. The administration claims that since 
June 15 they have been in place. This was not a surge in the classic 
military sense of overwhelming force applied rapidly. It was a slow, 
gradual escalation of a limited force because our force structure 
limits what we could do. From the very beginning, the ability of this 
force, deployed in a slow manner, to decisively influence the action on 
the ground was highly questionable.

I had the opportunity a few days ago to go to Iraq. Many of my 
colleagues have gone. I was able to travel not only into Baghdad but to 
get into the countryside to visit forward-operating bases, patrol 
bases, company-sized bases that are the new disposition of our forces.

First, let me say, as always, I was impressed with the extraordinary 
professionalism and commitment of the soldiers and marines, the sailors 
and the airmen who serve us so well. They are doing a superb job. But 
my conclusion, after spending these 2 brief days in the field, was 
their tactical momentum, changing the nature of the battlefield, has 
not, as I said, translated into the political progress needed to truly 
bring security and stability to Iraq.

And then something else too, the nonrebuttable fact that I see 
constantly; that is, this surge will come to an end later next spring, 
not because we have succeeded, not because we have achieved our 
objectives, but simply because we cannot continue to deploy 160,000 
troops in that country. That is a function of our limited forces. 
Unless the President is prepared to adopt Draconian personnel policies, 
not 14- to 15-month tours but 18- to 20-month tours; unless he wants to 
continue to rely upon significant stop-loss, where individuals who are 
able to leave the service are prevented from doing so; unless he is 
prepared to do those things, then by next spring the surge ends.

So I think it is appropriate, if we are seeing a situation where just 
months from now we are going to lower our forces, that we should start 
thinking


right now of how we do it in a way which will enhance the security of 
the United States, which will represent to the American people a new 
direction which they are clamoring for, and which can be sustained, not 
only in terms of material and personnel but in terms of the support of 
the American people.

In my opportunity to visit Iraq, I had a chance to sit down with 
General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker. They have suggested that they 
consciously recognize the limitations of our overall infrastructure. 
They also indicated that they were ready, probably sooner than 
September, to make a declaration of their advice to the President. I do 
not think we should wait, either. I think this debate is timely, the 
legislation is timely, and we should move forward.

Now, we received additional information just a few days ago in the 
nature of the interim report with respect to the status of the 
benchmarks. There is an appearance that the military situation in terms 
of the reliability of Iraqi Army units is encouraging to a degree. But 
there is still a great deal of work to do with the police force, which 
is a major component of any type of stable society.

In addition, I think if you drill down below the superficial, there 
is still the nagging question of the reliability, the political 
reliability, the professional reliability, of these forces, 
particularly their leadership. That is something which I think is still 
in great doubt.

But if you look at most of the political area, there is a string of 
unsatisfactory grades. The President's report found unsatisfactory 
progress of enacting and implementing legislation on debaathification 
reform. Essentially, what we are seeing is a huge conflict between the 
Sunni and Shia communities, and this conflict is not being abated by 
the wise action of the Government, a Shia government, to allow Sunnis 
fuller participation in the civic life and the political life of Iraq.

We are seeing unsatisfactory progress on enacting and implementing 
major legislation to ensure equitable hydrocarbon resources, 
distribution of oil and petroleum proceeds. We are seeing 
unsatisfactory progress on establishing a provincial election law, 
establishing provincial council authority, and setting a date for 
provincial elections.

One of the problems that has been nagging in the election process for 
the last several years in Iraq is that the Sunni community did not 
participate in significant elections, and therefore they are not 
adequately represented in certain areas. So, as a result, they haven't 
got this sense of participation of ownership that is so necessary. 
Until we have provincial elections, this will continue and further 
provide excuses, if not real reasons, for Sunnis not to participate 
fully and not to cooperate fully with the Government and with our 
forces in the field.

The report also talked about unsatisfactory progress toward providing 
Iraqi commanders with all authorities to make tactical and operational 
decisions in consultation with U.S. commanders without political 
intervention, to include the authority to pursue all extremists, 
including Sunni insurgents and Shia militias. Here is that very-
difficult-to-measure factor about the subjective quality of these 
commanders and leaders--whether they can operate without political 
interference or whether they are wittingly or unwittingly extensions of 
the political party.

Just today, if you saw the New York Times, there was an interesting 
article about how our American forces in Anbar Province were making 
progress with Sunni tribes, previously our enemies, our opponents, who 
now were rallying, not necessarily because they agree with us but 
because they recognize how ruthless and how much al-Qaida is targeting 
them in going after them. Now, that is progress we should recognize.

But what is disconcerting is the report that the regular Iraqi 
brigade in that region, primarily Shia, is actually trying to 
interfere, even in some cases suggest an attack on those Sunnis 
tribespeople because they see this as a force that will threaten them 
as they go forward--another example of this Sunni-Shia divide, which is 
a very difficult political chasm to try to bridge in a short period of 
time, and that is what we face today in many parts of Iraq.

We also saw unsatisfactory progress in ensuring the Iraqi security 
forces are providing evenhanded enforcement of the law and 
unsatisfactory progress as far as limiting militia control of local 
security. It is a very difficult situation in many respects.

Now, military operations--our military operations are critically 
important, but here is another reality that I think escapes so many 
people. Ultimately, only the Iraqis can provide a solution to these 
political problems, to these sectarian divides. We can suggest what 
they should do, but unless they do it, these divides will continue to 
paralyze this country and continue to undermine our efforts to help 
them stabilize their own country.

I don't think, given the fundamental nature of those issues, that the 
next 6 weeks until September 15 will make a profound difference. It has 
been suggested by many commentators that the ability of the Iraqi 
Government to function--even participate over the next several weeks is 
limited. So for those people, my colleagues, who call: Wait for 
September 15, I don't believe or hope that they are suggesting that 
those profound political problems will be somehow miraculously cured in 
the next 6 weeks.


As I said before, the inescapable fact, to me, is that by next April, 
we won't be able to generate 160,000, that somehow our military, sooner 
rather than later, will have to declare that there is a new strategy 
that rests not on the surge but on a much smaller force or at least a 
smaller force, and that force has to deal with these problems or has to 
deal in a way which the American people will support their continued 
presence in Iraq. That signal is today for a change in policy, not in 
September, not next spring, but today.

Now, I alluded to the lack of public support. Some would suggest, 
well, that is not important. You know, tough leaders have been in 
situations where the public did not support them. Well, the reality 
that I learned a long time ago, serving in the military, going to West 
Point, is that public support is a critical and necessary element of 
any national security strategy; you can only go so far and so long 
without it.

We are reaching a point where the American public is clearly 
declaring that they are deeply concerned about what is going on, deeply 
distrustful of the President's policy, and my fear, frankly, is unless 
we take prudent action today, unless the President takes prudent 
action, that their tolerance for any significant engagement might erode 
completely by next spring, leaving us with fewer options then than we 
have today.

A July 6 through 8 Gallup poll found 62 percent of Americans felt the 
United States made a mistake in sending troops to Iraq. A July 11, 
2007, Newsweek poll found that 68 percent of Americans disapproved of 
the way President Bush was handling the situation in Iraq. This is 
significant because I suggest it undercuts the necessary ingredient of 
public support for any major military strategic policy. As the 
President continues to be intransigent and as many of our colleagues 
give him the luxury of that intransigence, I fear that the American 
public becomes increasingly disheartened, increasingly desperate, and 
increasingly unwilling to listen to policies that will provide for a 
phased and orderly transition of our mission in Iraq.

We also understand the huge cost of this war. We have appropriated 
$450 billion. As many of my colleagues point out, the Congressional 
Budget Office estimates that we are spending about $10 billion a month. 
That, too, is very difficult to sustain because most of this is being 
financed, if not all of it, through deficit spending, which means we 
are passing on to the next generation of Americans a huge bill.

But, also, these are real opportunity costs. How are we going to 
reestablish, in a very narrow vein, our military, in terms of the 
personnel, their equipment, when the effort is essentially completed 
one way or the other? How are we going to provide for the next 
generation of military equipment, the next generation of military 
tactics and techniques and support personnel if our budget is in such 
disarray as it is now? I am not even beginning to comment on the huge 
costs that are unmet in this society in terms of health care, in terms 
of education, in terms of those forces and those ingredients of 
national


power, broad national power that are so essential.

As I said earlier, these operations are posing an excruciating stress 
and strain on military forces. The high operational tempo is really 
taking its toll on the troops and on their families. Since 2002, 1.4 
million troops have served in Iraq or Afghanistan. Nearly every 
nondeployed combat brigade in the Active-Duty Army has reported that 
they are not ready to complete their assigned war mission. These are 
the troops who have come back from Iraq, from Afghanistan. They are not 
ready to perform their mission.

We all can remember--I can, at least--Governor Bush talking up before 
a large crowd in his election campaign and criticizing the Clinton 
administration because two divisions, as he said, were not--if they 
were asked to report, they would say: Not ready for duty, sir, to the 
President. That pales in comparison to the lack of readiness we see 
today in our military forces. Nearly 9 out of every 10 Army National 
Guard forces that are not in Iraq or Afghanistan have less than half of 
the equipment needed to do their job. Their job now is to provide 
support for Governors in disasters, in problems that are related to 
their home States.

As I said again and again, military planners do not see how we can 
sustain 160,000 troops beyond next April. We also recognize that our 
policies of go-it-alone, our policies of virtually unilateral action 
are increasingly alienating opinion throughout the world. Once again, 
to accomplish anything significant, to rally diplomatic forces, to 
rally all of the forces throughout the world to help us achieve our 
end, you have to start on the basis of at least understanding and 
support. We have seen that deteriorate.

We have seen also the situation where, because of our concentration 
in Iraq, al-Qaida now is resurgent. That is the conclusion of the 
National Intelligence Estimate that was talked about in the press just 
last week. We are seeing a situation where Iran is increasing its 
strategic power. One major factor is the fact that we are tied down 
with 160,000 troops in Iraq. We are tied down in a way in which many of 
the individuals in the Iraqi Government whom we depend upon to do and 
take the actions where it is essential to our success have close 
personal and political ties to the Iranians. They talk to them on a 
weekly basis. They take certain directions from them. We are in a 
situation where our position in Iraq--unwittingly, perhaps--has 
strengthened the Iranians. We cannot effectively talk about another 
major military operation when we are having a very difficult time 
supplying and supporting this operation.

We have effectively taken out two of their traditional opponents in 
the region, and most difficult and dangerous opponent, the Taliban 
regime in Afghanistan and Saddam Hussein in Iraq. They now have 
strategic space. They are using it. They are using it to encourage 
Hezbollah and Hamas. They are using it to try to achieve nuclear fuel 
cycles and, on many days we all feel, perhaps, even a nuclear weapon. 
So what we have seen also is that as these developments take place, the 
world's opinion is rapidly turning against us.

We are seeing disturbing events in Pakistan and elsewhere where there 
is a concentration of al-Qaida leadership. I, like so many of my 
colleagues, was most disturbed a few weeks ago when American news 
broadcasters were showing films of a graduation ceremony of hundreds of 
individuals somewhere in Pakistan who were leaving to go off and pursue 
their jihadist terrorist activities around the world. That is a 
frightening but real situation.

As a result, Senator Levin and I have worked with our colleagues and 
have proposed an amendment that responds to these different issues and 
different threats and also the reality of the situation at home and in 
Iraq. I am pleased we are supported in our efforts by so many, 
including our colleagues, Senators Hagel, Smith, and Senator Snowe. 
This is a bipartisan amendment. It recognizes what the American people 
are demanding, a change in direction, and what the status on the ground 
and the status of the military require also, a change in direction. It 
calls for protecting U.S. and coalition forces, continuing our fight 
against terrorism, and training Iraqi security forces to step up and 
discharge their responsibilities. It calls for a beginning of a phased 
reduction of forces, 120 days after enactment of the legislation. It 
also calls upon us to begin to take up the issue of real proactive, 
complimentary diplomatic, and political action that is so necessary to 
stability in the operation.

One of the factors the President talked about last January, and was 
alluded to by the Secretary of State and others, was the civilian surge 
to match the military surge--a surge in advisers, technicians, those 
people who can help the Iraqis organize their political processes at 
the city level, the provincial level, and their economic processes. 
That is not taking place as rapidly as necessary. We are at a critical 
moment, a moment not to delay but to take appropriate action, a moment 
to change the direction in Iraq, not simply to wait and wait and wait 
until events dictate we have to draw down forces. I hope we can prevail 
our colleagues to support our efforts. I will have more to say. I 
believe many of my colleagues will have much more to say tomorrow.

I urge passage of the Levin-Reed amendment.
