# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `703b569cd15b5faf8455d35d790dc5ef`
`Mr. MARTINEZ â€” 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. MARTINEZ. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in opposition of 
the current amendment, the Webb amendment, to the fiscal year 2008 
National Defense authorization bill.

The fact is that this amendment, in its good intentions to think 
about the care and condition of our men and women in uniform who have 
so bravely served us, in fact is very much misguided in that it 
attempts to dictate to the military leaders exactly what type and how 
troop rotations should take place.

I think it is a dangerous amendment because it could also interfere 
with the ability of our country to respond in times of a national 
emergency, even


though it has a waiver provision in the amendment for the President's 
ability to respond to the dangerous situations that can occur in the 
very dangerous world in which we live.

The fact is--I know it has been mentioned, but I reiterate--the 
Secretary of Defense, the person charged with the constitutional 
responsibility of deployment of the Armed Forces, has foursquare 
clearly stated that this amendment, while well intended, is certainly 
not a good amendment. It would dramatically limit the Nation's ability 
to respond to other national security needs while we remain engaged in 
Iran and Afghanistan. Secretary Gates, in a letter of September 18 to 
Senator Graham, indicated clearly his concern. He goes on to mention 
some other concerns.

General Petraeus announced--and the President affirmed--that there 
would be troop drawdowns in Iraq in the upcoming weeks. In fact, this 
amendment could have the effect of extending the tours of duty of 
troops in Iraq beyond their currently scheduled rotation.

There is another thing that bothers me. I think we also need to think 
about our constitutional scheme, how our Government is organized and 
ordered. Constitutionally to enact an amendment such as this would 
clearly be an encroachment on the constitutional duties of the 
Commander in Chief. This is not an area where the Congress is welcomed 
to dictate. We have one Commander in Chief, not 535. We only elect one 
at a time. This Commander in Chief has a Secretary of Defense. It is 
their responsibility under our form of Government to determine what our 
troop rotations should be.

There are other very practical considerations of why this should not 
happen, why this is a bad idea. The Secretary of Defense goes into 
several items in his letter. But it does make sense, when you look at 
it, that units do not always stay together. Following an individual 
rather than a unit and following the deployment of an individual rather 
than that of a unit is something that would be cumbersome, difficult, 
and, in fact, not a way in which we would be, in this very dangerous 
time, having to run our military. The fact is, there is something here 
which is maybe the most underlying and important reason of all why this 
amendment is not a good idea, which is the clear desire and design of 
the amendment to limit the options of our military forces to maintain 
the current policy in Iraq. We ought to not use the good intentions and 
the good ideas about our soldiers, about our troops and their 
rotations, to have an underlying mission of simply saying, they can't 
keep this up so they will have to pull troops out. We will change 
policy by dictating how troops are rotated in and out of the 
battlefield. The fact is, that could have serious consequences for our 
Nation as other nations would view this as a vulnerability. It would be 
viewed as a weakness, as a fact that the United States is overextended 
and incapable of responding to crisis. It is these kinds of 
misperceptions and misunderstandings that can lead irresponsible states 
to take irresponsible actions that could lead to frightening scenarios 
in the very dangerous world in which we live.

It is important to also note that many of the members of our Armed 
Forces consider it a privilege and an honor to serve this Nation at 
this difficult time. My recent trip to Iraq was in Tikrit. While there, 
I visited with a number of troops, some of them Floridians, all proud 
of their service. Over 90 percent of those troops had already 
reenlisted, knowing full well of our involvement in Iraq, knowing what 
the expectations of their service would be during their time of 
reenlistment, and they had voluntarily reenlisted. Reenlistment rates 
of those serving in the theater are larger than those of any other. It 
is a testament to their courage, valor, and sense of duty to their 
country. We would demean their service if we were to say to them that 
there had to be parity between the time in service out of the country 
and the time at home.

The goal ought to be for us not to have 15-month deployments. The 
hope would be that these would never be necessary. But a mandate from 
Congress that this is how we must operate our Armed Forces is ill-
conceived. It is dangerous and does not serve either the national 
interest of the Nation or the interest of the soldiers on the field 
whom it is intended to serve. We should not have a subterfuge of policy 
to change direction in Iraq heaped on the backs of our brave men and 
women in uniform. If, in fact, there is the thought that this policy is 
wrong and it should be changed--and I know many Members feel that way; 
there has been plenty of debate about this issue--there ought to be the 
courage to say: We will not fund the troops. If you can't do that, you 
shouldn't do it this way. This is unnecessary. It is cumbersome, and it 
will be detrimental to the national security of the country.

I yield the floor.