# None
## `704df60fe49b9950ec0dfae26a77031d`
`Ms. CHU â€” 7 December 2010`

---


Ms. CHU. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize a great loss to our 
community, United States Marine Corps Sgt. Eric B. Sandoval, who passed 
away on Nov. 12, 2010, at the young age of 30. My heart goes out to his 
wife, Sandy; his stepson, Isaiah Salcedo; his parents, Roberto and 
Gloria; his brothers and sisters, Robert, Danny, Gabby, Alejandra, 
Jonathan and Steven; and the rest of his family and friends.

Born in Los Angeles, Eric spent nearly all of his life in South El 
Monte and later Covina, attending Dean L. Shively Middle School and 
later South El Monte and Pomona high schools. A patriot who loved his 
country, he enlisted in the United States Marine Corps right out of 
high school at just 17 years of age, and spent the next 8 years as a 
scout sniper, serving in our nation's conflict in Iraq as part of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Within days of his arrival in Iraq, Eric's platoon came under attack 
The attack was so brutal that Eric was the only one of his group to 
survive, and had to undergo extensive surgery to repair his damaged eye 
and ear.

Sergeant Sandoval received numerous awards and commendations for his 
bravery in the face of terrible odds, including the Navy & Marine 
Achievement Medal; Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal; 
Afghanistan Campaign Medal; Global War on Terrorism Service Medal; 
Humanitarian Service Medal; Sea Service Deployment Award; Armed Forces 
Expeditionary Medal; Navy Meritorious Unit Commendation; and Good 
Conduct Medal, among others.

After recovering from his injuries, Sergeant Sandoval's undying 
patriotism led him to return to Iraq, this time as a contractor for the 
government, helping to support his former comrades at arms until the 
time of his passing. And despite the hardships and difficulties 
presented by his war injuries, Eric still managed to attend college and 
graduate with a bachelor's degree in accounting and a master of arts 
degree in business administration, with honors.

Eric B. Sandoval's generosity and kindness are an inspiration to his 
family and our entire community, and he lived his life with integrity 
and bravery. Our nation owes him a debt of gratitude that cannot be 
repaid. So I urge all my House colleagues to join me in honoring our 
community hero, Sgt. Eric B. Sandoval, for his remarkable service and 
contributions to our country.
