# SECTION 8 VOUCHER REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `72743a588324d67396285541797dee5e`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. I thank the gentlewoman, not so much for 
yielding but for the really extraordinary work she has done on this, 
the gentlewoman from California, and I want to say how much I admire 
the two tracks she has worked on. On the one track, she has been one of 
the leaders on our side in the House on the issue of Iraq and ending 
our involvement in the war in Iraq where I am a strong follower of her.

Simultaneously, she has engaged in some very careful and thoughtful 
legislative work, and I think that is the mark of a complete 
legislator, to be able to do the ideologically based advocacy but also 
work in a bipartisan way, continuing work which began when she was the 
ranking member and in a seamless way to go forward.

I spoke during the rule where I expressed my strong support for the 
legislation. I have rarely seen legislation so broadly supported by the 
landlords, by the local housing authorities that administer it and by 
the beneficiaries. There is a three-way operation here, and all of them 
consider this bill to be an improvement.

As the gentlewoman from Illinois said, it does not improve everything 
as much as everybody would like; nothing ever does. But she is correct, 
this is an improvement. I would ask my friend from California to yield 
to her so we can talk about it, but she has already done some of the 
things that she talked about. For instance, in the manager's amendment, 
we will increase the reserves available to housing authorities to avoid 
any damage that would come in the transition on the new funding 
formula. I know the gentlewoman has some other concerns, and I hope if 
the gentlewoman from California will yield to her, I can respond to 
them.