# None
## `72f2db85e981947f210939f06b562117`
`Mr. ALTMIRE â€” 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. I thank the gentleman from Connecticut. And I wanted to 
spend some time talking about what this bill actually does, because I 
heard some rhetoric during the debate from the other side that I 
couldn't believe I was hearing, because it had nothing to do with the 
facts of what's really in this bill. I heard Members stand up and say 
that the goal of the Democrats is to cut the funding for our troops and 
cut and run and do an immediate withdrawal. And none of that is in this 
bill. That is not what we voted on today.

And the great thing about democracy, the great thing about this 
House, the House of Representatives of the United States is that we 
have people who represent every side of the political spectrum. And 
there are a handful of Members who feel so strongly about this issue 
that they feel we need to immediately cut the funding and immediately 
withdraw our troops and bring them home. And they are very vocal. And 
what's interesting about that group is they didn't support this bill. 
The people who feel so strongly that we need to cut the funding and 
bring our troops home immediately voted against this bill, along with 
the Republicans.

So when I hear Members on the other side talk about what our goals 
are, and then I think of the fact that they are the ones that voted 
with the people who want to bring our troops home immediately and 
immediately cut the funding, that leads me to believe that perhaps they 
didn't read the bill closely enough, or maybe there's just some 
rhetoric that's being thrown around that they know is not true.

And what I would suggest to my colleagues, and certainly to the 
American people, is you look at what is in this bill. And we've talked 
about this before when we passed the first bill before it went to 
conference. We give the President more money than he asked for. The 
conference report that we voted today, 4 billion more dollars to go to 
Iraq and support our troops than President Bush asked us for. That's 
not cutting the funding. That is supporting our troops.

We increased funding for the Department of Defense health care 
facilities to make sure that situations like Walter Reed never happen 
again. We increased funding for the Veterans Affairs health care system 
to make sure that we have adequate coverage for our Nation's veterans, 
because, as we have talked about many times on this floor, there is no 
group that should stand ahead of our Nation's veterans when it comes 
time to make funding decisions.

And this bill, for now the fourth time in 4 months, we have voted to 
increase funding for the Veterans health care system, and not continue 
the past 6 years of chronic underfunding for the VA health care system.

And finally, this bill does, in fact, add some accountability to the 
process. The only remaining leverage that we have left in Iraq, almost 
4 years to the day after we were told the mission was accomplished, 
that date was May 1, the only remaining leverage we have left is our 
presence there.

The gentleman from Connecticut talked about how he was in Iraq, and I 
don't want to put words in his mouth, but I am sure you spoke to some 
of the leadership over there and experienced the fact that the Iraqi 
government has not stepped up to manage their own affairs and 
administer their own government. In fact, they have failed miserably in 
that action, and they show no


sign of being willing to step up to the plate. And the only leverage we 
have to make that happen, and that is the only solution to this 
conflict, is a political solution. There's no military solution 
because, it has, as you said, degenerated into a civil war. The only 
leverage we have there is our presence there. And until we say, loud 
and clear to the Iraqi government, that our presence there is not open 
ended, that we do consider this to be a situation that they need to 
step up, administer their own affairs and run their own government, 
nothing's going to change. And we did have, 4 years ago today, an 
announcement that the mission was accomplished; and we'll be here next 
year and the year after and the year after, and we'll still be waiting 
for the Iraqi government to step up unless we take affirmative action 
to add some accountability, which is what we did in this bill today.

So I'm going to give it back to the gentleman so he can talk to Mr. 
Hodes momentarily, because I know he's chomping at the bit to say what 
he has to say. And I'm looking forward to hearing it myself.

But I just want to be crystal clear, this bill, in no way, represents 
a cut in funding for our brave men and women who are serving us in 
Iraq. It has more money in it for our troops, direct aid for our 
troops, than the President asked for. Make no mistake about that.

So at this point I would yield back to the gentleman from 
Connecticut.