# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `739bcfbdf33e5479024b833815506b8a`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I have been privileged to be a Member of 
the Senate now in my 29th year. Never have I stood in the Senate and in 
any way impugned the integrity of any Senator to speak as she or he 
believes from their own heart about what is right. I have never tried 
to challenge the patriotism of any Senator as they express their views.

I say to my colleagues, I entered this debate simply because I feel 
the Senate of the United States of America, an institute revered 
throughout the world, should have the right to go forward and debate 
this critical issue before America today, before the whole world.

Over a week ago, I voted against cloture to support the rights of all 
colleagues to be heard. That issue has been back and forth between our 
two leaders now for some weeks. We have come to the point in time when 
we must move forward. The only vehicle for those who wish to have this 
institution move forward and fulfill its goal is to move, today, to 
vote for cloture. I shall cast that vote, not with a heavy heart but 
with a heart that I think I am doing right for the integrity of this 
institution.

I have joined with my good friend Senator Ben Nelson, Senator 
Collins,


and the other cosponsors, Senator Hagel, Senator Snowe, Senator 
Coleman, Senator Voinovich, and Senator Smith, all of whom, once again, 
signed onto this amendment, referred to as the Warner-Nelson-Collins 
amendment.

We do so because we only wish to express a measure of disagreement on 
one basic point--an important one--with our President. The United 
States Congress is an independent branch of our Government. We are, as 
we often say, a coequal branch of our Government. We have the right to 
respectfully disagree. And we do so in our language. We support the 
President on the diplomatic aspects of his plan. We support the 
President on the economic aspects of his plan announced on the 10th of 
January.

We only disagree with one portion of it: Madam President, do you need 
21,500 additional men and women of the Armed Forces in this conflict--
indeed, it is more than that, as was testified before the Armed 
Services Committee the other day--to go into the streets and the alleys 
of Baghdad and to face an enemy which is largely today fighting a 
sectarian war?

This country gave an enormous sacrifice of life and limb to give Iraq 
its sovereignty. It is the duty of the Iraqi Armed Forces to take on 
the sectarian fighting. The American GI does not know the language, 
does not know the historic background of over 1,400 years of dispute 
between the Sunni and Shia. And we have trained over 300,000 Iraqi 
forces. Why not give those forces the responsibility to take on this 
fight?

Our resolution in no way has anything to do with the cutoff of funds. 
Senators stand up and castigate our resolution and claim it will cutoff 
funding. It will not cutoff funding to our troops. It supports the 
President. It supports the present level of all the troops throughout 
Iraq. It simply says: Mr. President, are there not alternatives other 
than using the American GI to put down this sectarian violence?

Madam President, I do hope, as we pursue this, we respect one another 
and our rights in this institution because I feel ever so strongly that 
our resolution supports the President economically, supports the 
President diplomatically, states that the President is correct, and 
clearly states that we cannot let this battle be lost and let the Iraqi 
Government collapse. We do not wish to see the people of Iraq denied 
the sovereignty that our blood, sweat, and toil have given them. We 
stand by the President on that. We simply say: Mr. President, this 
particular battle in Baghdad is best fought by the Iraqis. I regret to 
say that a New York Times article--and I asked this in open testimony 
before the Armed Services Committee a day or so ago to the Chief of 
Staff of the Army and to the Commandant of the Marine Corps--the 
accuracy of this report, that in the most recent battle there were 
2,500 Americans and 200 Iraqi security forces. That is contrary to what 
the President said. He said the Iraqis will take the point in this 
battle. The President also said the Iraqis will bear the burden in this 
battle, and we would be there in support. This is not support. We are 
fighting that battle.

Again, this morning, I watched a report, presented by a U.S. general 
from Iraq, who stated that progress is being made in the battle in 
Iraq. Time and time again--he referred to the American forces making 
progress. He referred only to the United States forces fighting that 
battle, with no reference to the Iraqi forces. That is my point. That 
is why I steadfastly take this floor and respectfully disagree with the 
President. I will vote for the Gregg amendment. As a matter of fact, 
the Gregg amendment is in the Warner amendment.