# None
## `73a2aa05e193adf5a8038075ab531d36`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN â€” 14 July 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, this amendment I rise to speak about is 
numbered 1528. I am hopeful before too long it will be the pending 
business. I know it has now, and I believe it will, enjoy broad 
bipartisan support.

This amendment would increase the authorization for the Active-Duty 
end strength of the U.S. Army over the next 3 years by 30,000 
additional soldiers. I wish to say right at the outset it is an 
authorization; it is not an appropriation. It says within its terms 
that it is contingent on a decision by the Secretary of Defense that he 
chooses to fill these positions, and if he does, then he has two major 
options.

One is to reprogram from other funds under his control to support 
these additional troops, and the second, of course, is to return to 
Congress for a supplemental appropriation.

In my opinion, for all we have said and done in expression of our 
concern about the stress the members of the U.S. Army are feeling and 
their families are feeling, based on the fact that they are carrying 
the overwhelming burden of the wars in which we are involved in Iraq 
and Afghanistan--we have done a lot to improve living conditions, to 
offer more support for physical and mental health services, to provide 
better housing for families, but this is about how much time the 
soldiers can be back at their home bases and back with their families. 
I will get to this in detail as we go on.

Last month, the House and Senate Armed Services Committees voted to 
give the Secretary of Defense the authority to increase the Army's end 
strength by an additional 30,000 soldiers for fiscal years 2011 and 
2012 but not 2010, for reasons that I will describe as somewhat arcane. 
This new authorization will provide the Secretary of Defense with the 
ability to increase the size of the Army to the extent he thinks it is 
necessary for the national defense or for other purposes such as 
reducing the stress to which I have referred on our troops today.

I was privileged to introduce the amendment along with Senator Thune, 
my ranking member on the Airland Subcommittee, during the Senate Armed 
Services Committee, as well as Senator Graham, to provide this 
authorization, and I am glad to be joined in introducing this amendment 
No. 1528 with my bipartisan group, including the two formerly mentioned 
Senators, and others.

This amendment would extend this authorization where it logically 
must begin to fiscal year 2010 beginning on October 1 of this year, 
2009. We introduced this amendment because it will provide our soldiers 
with the reinforcements they will need to execute the missions we as a 
nation have sent them on. Indeed, our soldiers will be under even more 
stress in the coming months because of this fact. As we begin the 
responsible strategy for drawdown in Iraq based on the extraordinary 
success of our troops and the Iraqis in turning around the war in 
Iraq, we are also deploying additional soldiers under the direction of 
our Commander in Chief, President Obama, to Afghanistan at an even 
faster pace than they are returning home.


GEN George Casey, the Army's Chief of Staff, warned us in the Armed 
Services Committee earlier this year that the effect of these two 
facts--a slow and methodical drawdown in Iraq of our Armed Forces, 
Army, and an increase in deployment to Afghanistan--means that the 
total number of soldiers deployed to combat will be increasing through 
the rest of this calendar year and into the next.

As General Casey said to us, this matter of dwell time, which I will 
speak about in more detail in a moment, is a matter of supply and 
demand: How many soldiers do we have, and what is the demand for them 
in the battle zones, the war zones.

GEN James Cartwright, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
recently confirmed the critical challenges the U.S. Army will face in 
the near term and the importance of increasing Army Active Duty end 
strength. Speaking before the Senate Armed Services Committee just last 
week, General Cartwright said:




 There is that period of 2010 and 2011 in particular where 


 that stress is going to be there. During 2010 because of 


 execution, and in 2011 because [units will be] coming back, 


 refilling and trying to retrofit. You're going to have stress 


 on the Army in a significant way.


And I add, stress on the Army means stress on the families of those 
who serve us in the Army.

General Cartwright continued by stating that the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff are working with the Army to find a range for growth that would 
reduce this strain on the service. ''We have looked at this, we have 
worked in a range''--and I add here of increasing Army Active Duty--
''from about 15,000 to 25,000 . . . 30,000 would give us the range in 
which to work to allow us to do that.''

That is exactly what this amendment would do, give the Secretary of 
Defense, the Joint Chiefs, and the Secretary of the Army the latitude 
to increase the Army temporarily by as


much as 30,000. Why? To increase the dwell time. That is the time our 
troops can spend at home and, thereby, reduce the stress in a most 
significant way imaginable.

I deeply appreciate that General Cartwright would speak so clearly 
about the Army's requirements of additional soldiers in the coming 
months and how hard he and Secretary Gates are working to support our 
troops. I believe it is our duty to make sure they have all the 
authority required to do so.

Let me speak more about what dwell time is. Dwell time is time 
soldiers have between Active Duty deployments, time they spend 
recovering and preparing for their next deployment and, most 
significant to our soldiers, I would guess, precious time they can 
spend at home with their families. This dwell time ratio for many of 
our soldiers today is little more than 1 to 1, which means they have 
but 1 year at home for every year they spend in the theater. Everyone 
agrees--everyone agrees--that this dwell time is absolutely 
unacceptable. It may also be unsustainable.

When General Casey testified before the Senate Armed Services 
Committee earlier this year, he said it is his goal to get to a point 
where we have at least 2 years back home for every year our soldiers 
spend deployed. In fact, he said his ultimate goal at which he believes 
the Army would be most effective would be to have 3 years at home for 
every year in the field.

General Casey hopes that a responsible drawdown from Iraq will allow 
him to achieve that goal. I share the general's hopes. But, frankly, I 
do not believe we can bet the well-being of our Army on them without 
providing authority to the Army and the Secretary of Defense to expand 
the troops to reach those dwell-time goals of at least 2 to 1 about 
which General Casey talked.

The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Admiral Mullen, told our committee 
this year that the ''light at the end of the tunnel'' is still more 
than 2 years away for the Army, and that is only if everything goes 
according to plan in Iraq. I believe that 2 years is too long to wait, 
especially when we can take steps now to turn on the light, if you 
will, to provide our soldiers with the reinforcements and relief they 
need.

I think it is important for my colleagues to know this amendment has 
the strong support of many of our soldiers and those organizations that 
fight for them.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
two letters, one from GEN Gordon Sullivan, president of the Association 
of the U.S. Army, and, second, from ADM Norbert Ryan, writing on behalf 
of the Military Officers Association of America.