# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `73ef5e0c5b0fee6ff5b5f793b78a5c5e`
`Mr. WAMP â€” 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. WAMP. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume for 
the purpose to close briefly by saying that Chairman Obey said 
something at the full committee that I want to paraphrase and restate 
in the context that we all know that those who do not learn from 
history, are destined to repeat it.

One of the lessons of Vietnam is that regardless of how you feel, 
especially as a policymaker, but even as a citizen, about the war in 
Iraq or the war in Afghanistan, or any war, it's so important to 
appreciate fully the men and women who are engaged in that war on our 
behalf. Regardless of how you feel about the mission, it is so 
important for our Nation to appreciate and support and fund and 
resource the needs of our men and women in uniform and our veterans.

I want to say tonight I grew up a Democrat. I am a Republican today. 
But we should, and are, meeting at the water's edge on this issue of 
resourcing the men and women in harm's way and supporting the veterans 
when they come home for the balance of their life.

This is a lesson of history, of modern history. We saw it and we are 
making that right. So even though many of them do not support what we 
are doing in Iraq, or maybe even Afghanistan, this bill supports those 
who are fighting, and their families. And that is important.

In closing, I do want to recognize by name again the extraordinary 
staff. They call these people the front office staff. Rob Nabors and 
Jeff Shockey at the highest level. This committee staff is bipartisan. 
There happens to be a majority staff, Carol Murphy, Donna Shahbaz, 
Walter Hearne; the minority staff, Martin Delgado, Liz Dawson, and 
Kelly Shea. Mr. Edwards has John Conger, I have Amanda Schoch. They 
have done a remarkable job day in day in day out to bring us to this 
today because this is a great work product. Not all bills that come to 
this floor are, but this is. And it's right. I urge its passage.

I thank you for the time on the general debate. We have got 37 
amendments. The hour is getting late. Let's get on with it.

I yield back the balance of our time.