# DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `7450274568379f2e13938325e2e31cce`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 11 September 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I will not yield at this time, although 
after I get through speaking I am happy to yield to my colleague.

Mr. President, every generation has defining moments, moments when 
you know in an instant that the world as you knew it has forever 
changed. Some of these moments are cause for celebration, such as the 
Moon landing or the fall of the Berlin Wall. But some, like the bombing 
of Pearl Harbor or the assassination of President John Fitzgerald 
Kennedy, are moments of intense grief, when the entire Nation holds its 
breath in shock and disbelief.

The morning of September 11, 2001, was one such defining moment. Many 
of us closed our eyes, pleading with reality that what we saw could not 
be true. Many of us sat and cried, reeling from the loss of so many of 
our friends and neighbors. Many of us crowded into houses of worship 
across the country, looking for comfort and for answers. We watched as 
average Americans, finding extraordinary courage, became heroes. 
Firefighters, police officers, and other emergency personnel responded 
with remarkable bravery and determination, and many gave their lives so 
that others might live. The strength and generosity of ordinary 
Americans was the sole bright spot on that dark day.

But what defines our generation is not just what we do in such 
moments but what we do the next day, and the next week, and the next 
year. Here we stand, 6 years later, remembering that day and reflecting 
back on all that has happened since that time. And here I stand, more 
proud of America than ever, and especially its response over the last 6 
years.

In the weeks following September 11, our country was faced with 
several choices. Would we crack under the weight of the tragedy and the 
threat of the terrorist mindset or would we unite against the idealogy 
of fear and hatred? Would we retreat from a dangerous global terrorism 
or would we work to create a safer world? Over the last 6 years, we 
have faced terrorism and extremism head on. We have stood firmly 
against those who would attack innocent civilians and push an agenda of 
fear. As a result, our country is safer and terrorism is being combated 
across the world.

Of course, we owe a profound debt of gratitude to the brave men and 
women of the U.S. military. Their continued service and dedication to 
our country has literally helped to preserve the American way of life, 
and made the world safer, I might add, for everyone. Their strength and 
courage is an example to all of us, and we should always remember and 
honor their sacrifices.

But the fact is, while we are safer than we were on September 11, 
2001, we are not yet safe. Recent renewed threats from al-Qaida and 
arrests of terror suspects in Germany have proven that the danger is 
still looming for us. Fighting terrorism means we have to be right all 
the time, while the terrorists only need to be right once. We


have to stay on the offensive, taking the fight to the enemy and always 
looking for ways to improve our national security here at home.

Now, yesterday and today, Congress received a report from the general 
in charge of the Multinational Force Iraq, GEN David Petraeus, and from 
our Ambassador to the region, Ambassador Crocker.

All of us will recall that when General Petraeus was nominated to 
this high office as a professional military man, his confirmation came 
to the Senate. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I 
was proud to vote for his confirmation in the Armed Services Committee. 
As you can see by this chart, on January 26, 2007, the Senate 
unanimously confirmed this professional soldier as the head of the 
multinational forces in Iraq.

Unfortunately, when General Petraeus's report was received yesterday 
before a joint hearing in the House, there was all too common 
partisanship and shrill rhetoric. But, in contrast, this report 
represents an honest, nonpartisan assessment of the conditions in Iraq, 
both political and marshal.

You know, the fact is, it bears note that General Petraeus's report, 
along with Ambassador Crocker's, is exactly aligned with what the 
Director of National Intelligence issued in August in his report as 
well as the report of the independent commission created by this 
Congress headed by retired Marine Corps GEN Jim Jones, who testified 
just last week.

As a result of these reports, we will now be faced with a choice: 
Will we heed the advice of our generals, particularly in the case of 
General Petraeus, a counterinsurgency expert, unanimously confirmed by 
the Senate, or will we close our ears and our minds to the facts and 
cave in to special interest groups that claim to know better than our 
distinguished military leaders?

Even before this report was issued by General Petraeus, one such 
group began employing a despicable and reprehensible new tactic in 
anticipation of a report which contradicted their ideology. MoveOn.org 
sponsored this ad, which shamefully, despicably appeared in the New 
York Times, claiming that General Petraeus, this distinguished military 
warrior, was a traitor and that he would lie in his report.

Lest anyone be misled into thinking this is a product merely of an 
individual organization, MoveOn.org, I would refer my colleagues to an 
article that appeared in the New York Times magazine on Sunday entitled 
''Can Lobbyists Stop the War?'' What that article pointed out--I would 
commend it to all of our colleagues--is that an attack such as this is 
not an isolated event on behalf of an antiwar organization like 
MoveOn.org; it is part of a concerted strategy composed of some 20 
outside special interest groups consulting with Democrats on the Hill.

This organization, as the article reports, does not work only through 
media by paying hundreds of thousands of dollars for ads like this; 
they coordinate extensively with Democrats on Capitol Hill, as the 
article points out. Mr. Matzzie, who is the head of this organization, 
is actually the Washington, DC, representative of MoveOn.org, and he 
himself, the article says, meets with Speaker
Nancy Pelosi or Harry 
Reid, the Senate majority leader, maybe once a month, he says, adding 
that he talks to their staffs once a day or at least a couple times a 
week. In the article, Mr. Crowley notes that senior Democratic aides 
sometimes even join in conference calls. This might entail discussions 
of political strategy or more substantive policy briefings by experts 
from the think tanks that are part of these outside interest groups as 
part of this organized, orchestrated effort on behalf of those who want 
to tear down the good name of a distinguished patriot like David 
Petraeus.

This smear campaign consisted of an entirely unwarranted and 
fallacious attack and sought to impugn the name of a highly respected 
man of integrity. I have seen this kind of attack before. I suspect all 
of us have at one point or another.

But sometimes it is called just simply ''poisoning the well.'' It is 
a simple principle: When you cannot refute someone's report, try to 
discredit them before they, in fact, even make it. Indeed, Mr. Matzzie, 
the Washington director of MoveOn.org who heads up the organization 
that is referred to in the New York Times magazine article entitled 
''Can Lobbyists Stop the War?'' was quoted in Politico as saying this:




 We have to frame his statements before he makes them. He's 


 not St. Petraeus, he's General Petraeus.


This same article which I mentioned a moment ago quotes an anonymous 
Democratic Senator:




 No one wants to call Petraeus a liar on national TV. The 


 expectation is that the outside groups will do this for us.


I hope all of my colleagues in the Senate will join me in condemning 
these disgraceful attacks against the good name and character of this 
general. Instead of making wild allegations, we ought to actually 
listen to what he has to say. It is always, I have found, a valuable 
tool to listen to what someone has to say before you try to argue with 
them.

Of course, what he had to say in the House yesterday will be and is 
currently being repeated, I expect in large part in the Foreign 
Relations Committee this morning and the Senate Armed Services 
Committee this afternoon. The fact that General Petraeus has reported 
that these groups find so reprehensible is that we have actually made 
progress in Iraq in communities or in areas such as Al Anbar Province 
and in other places around the country; Al-Qaida in Iraq is losing 
popularity, and with it they are losing ground.

For every person who abandons the doctrines of terrorism, we take 
another step toward a stable Iraq and a safer America. Unfortunately, 
our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, even before General 
Petraeus gave this report and in the face of the National Intelligence 
Estimate and the Jones Commission, denied the fact of violence actually 
going down in Iraq.

This is just one comment made by the Senator from New York, who said:




 The violence in Anbar has gone down despite the surge, not 


 because of the surge.


Disclaiming that our 170,000 American uniformed servicemembers in 
Iraq have made any difference. The problem is that when you bet against 
the men and women of the U.S. military, you are going to lose. And 
those who bet against the U.S. military in claiming that their efforts 
would have no effect in Iraq have lost that bet because it has, and 
they just can't seem to handle it.

Another statement by the majority leader attempting to undermine the 
credibility of this general--Senator Reid said:




 General Petraeus has made a number of statements over the 


 years that have not proved to be factual.


The chair of the House Democratic caucus, Rahm Emanuel, on September 
7, 2007, said:




 We do not need a report that wins a Nobel Prize for 


 creative statistics or the Pulitzer Prize for fiction.


Suggesting that this general, whom we confirmed just last January by 
unanimous vote, in charge of multinational forces in Iraq would write a 
report that could be described as ''fiction'' is an insult.

We should make no mistake about the fact that success in Iraq is 
inextricably linked to our safety here at home. Let us not forget that 
only 2 months ago, this Senate overwhelming passed a resolution 
declaring the dangers of a failed Iraq state and expressing our intent 
not to pursue any strategy which might lead to that failure, passed by 
a vote of 94 to 3.

I agreed with Senator Reid back in January of 2007 when he said:




 Our hope, our prayer is that this President will finally 


 listen, listen to the generals.


That is what we are asking Senator Reid and our friends on the other 
side of the aisle to do today, is to simply listen to this good man who 
wears the uniform of the U.S. military and give him a fair hearing.

We passed the measure I mentioned a moment ago about taking no action 
which would likely result in a failed state in Iraq because we 
recognized that Iraq is the front line in a much larger war, a global 
war on terrorism.

When the Confederate and Union armies met near a small shoe factory 
in Gettysburg, they could not have known that battle would be a turning 
point in our Civil War. But as we stand now looking at the situation in 
Iraq, we must acknowledge that our success or failure there will be a 
turning point, one way or the other, in the global war on terror.



Already we have seen Islamic terrorism spread across the globe from 
Syria, Israel, Lebanon, Afghanistan, the Philippines, Jordan, India, 
and Bali. All have suffered from Islamic terrorism. European countries 
such as Spain, Great Britain, and most recently Germany have all had to 
face the growing threat of suicide bombers and terrorists. Even here at 
home recently we have seen two terror plots fail, thank goodness, at 
Fort Dix and at JFK Airport.

Were we to close our ears and our minds to what General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker have to report and abandon our effort to provide an 
ability for the Iraqis to govern and defend themselves, were we to 
leave the region to the hegemony of Iran, an enemy of this Nation which 
is developing nuclear weapons, we would leave not only the Iraqis but 
the people in the region--indeed, ourselves here at home--at the mercy 
of terrorist organizations and countries that give safe haven to those 
terrorists, a base of operations which would serve as a launching point 
for further operations into Europe and America. But if we create a 
stable self-sufficient Iraq, we can begin to push back the terrorist 
organizations in the Middle East. We can stop their spread and we can 
push back, just as the American military has in Anbar Province, 
recruiting local people, the sheiks, the tribes there to be part of the 
fight on our side and to eliminate al-Qaida from that region.

Just as transparency is the enemy of corruption, free and stable 
nations are the Achilles' heel of terrorism. Today, 6 years to the day 
from when we were first attacked, we must redouble our efforts. We must 
combat terrorism throughout the world, starting with a liberated, 
secure Iraq.

We should make sure that we give General Petraeus and our troops 
everything they need to win the battle and turn the tide of the larger 
war, not undermine them by condoning the kind of scurrilous attacks 
reflected in this New York Times advertisement by MoveOn.org.

We should also remember that the war on terrorism is more than a 
military engagement; it is a battle of wills which we all fight. Every 
day we meet in this hallowed Chamber, we fight that battle. Every time 
Americans gather to worship without fear, we fight that battle. Every 
night when we go home to our families and we find comfort with our 
loved ones, we are fighting that battle. America's determination to 
continue our way of life is a powerful statement to the terrorists that 
you may threaten us, you may attack us, but you will never break the 
American spirit. We will always cherish freedom, and we will always 
pursue peace and justice throughout the world.

Over the last 6 years, we have had to make many changes in order to 
adapt to this new threat, but one thing will never change: America will 
always fight against fear and extremism, and we will always stand up 
for a peaceful, more humane world.