# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `7453666f053cea6957e135a87b1c0da5`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN â€” 2 August 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today to urge the Senate to 
invoke cloture on this bill, S. 1, the Honest Leadership and Open 
Government Act. In the last election, the message was loud and clear: 
It is time to change the way business is done in the Nation's Capital. 
In response, what is before us this morning is the single most sweeping 
congressional reform bill since Watergate. I support its passage, and I 
support its passage despite the fact that I do not like everything that 
is in this bill. It is a strong bill. I am sure it is too strong for 
some and it is too weak for others, but, like all conference reports, 
it is, in effect, to some degree a compromise.

On Tuesday, by a 411-to-8 strongly bipartisan vote, the House passed 
this legislation, and now it is the Senate's turn. It would be a 
serious mistake if we do not step up to the plate and demonstrate to 
the American people that we have heard their message.

As I say, the bill is not perfect. There have been some complaints by 
the minority party about the process used to bring this bill to the 
floor, and I wish to begin by addressing that issue.

Last January, the Senate passed S. 1 by a 96-to-2 vote. On May 24, 
the House passed companion legislation by a 386-to-22 margin. Those 
were strong bipartisan votes. But when the majority leader sought 
unanimous consent to name conferees, one member of the minority party 
objected, and he held fast to his objections, preventing the 
establishment of a conference committee where Members could have sat 
down in the light of day and negotiated Member to Member the 
differences between the two bills. Clearly, that wasn't able to take 
place.

With few other options available, the majority leader and the Speaker 
of the House sought consensus on a bill that could be taken up by both 
Houses, and that consensus bill is what we have before us today.

It may not be every person's wish, and as chairman of the Rules 
Committee, I commit right now to keep these items on the front burner, 
and should changes be necessitated, I would be very happy to entertain 
them. Though I cannot speak for my counterpart, the distinguished 
ranking member, Senator Bennett, I believe he would also.

But today, let me say this: I believe this is a good bill--not a 
perfect bill but a good bill. Its passage today is the most direct 
action we can take to show the American people that, yes, we want to 
curb the influence of lobbyists and we want to restore the public trust 
on how we operate as Senators and Members of the House of 
Representatives.

In recent years, there has been an explosive growth in the number of 
registered lobbyists in Washington from 16,342 in 2000 to 34,785 in 
2005. So in 5 years, the numbers of lobbyists have doubled, and, 
according to all reports, the numbers keep growing.

One of the most critical provisions of this bill will now shine new 
light on the role lobbyists play in political campaigns by requiring 
the disclosure of funds they bundle on behalf of Members, PACs, and 
party committees. It will also require that lobbyists disclose all 
their campaign contributions as well as payments to Presidential 
libraries, inaugural committees, or entities controlled by, named, or 
honoring Members of Congress, and it requires lobbyists to file 
electronic reports quarterly on their lobbying activity, with these 
reports becoming available on a searchable public database. The bill 
also increases civil penalties from $50,000 to $200,000 and establishes 
a criminal penalty of up to 5 years for those lobbyists who knowingly 
and corruptly fail to comply with these new requirements.

There has been increasing concern about former members of the 
administration, former lawmakers, and their staff gaining undue access 
as lobbyists because of the relationships they have made while working 
for the Government. This bill seeks to address those concerns by 
increasing the length of time, the so-called cooling-off period, for 
Senators. Currently, Senators are barred from lobbying Congress for 1 
year. With passage of this bill, that would be extended to 2 years.

Cabinet Secretaries and other very senior executive personnel would 
be prohibited from lobbying the department or agency in which they 
worked for 2 years after they leave their position. In other words, 
they cannot lobby the department from which they left for 2 years. That 
is an increase from 1 to 2 years.

Senior Senate staff and Senate officers would be barred from lobbying 
the entire Senate for 1 year, instead of just their former employing 
office. That would be the whole Senate, not just their office.

There has been a lot of talk also about the K Street Project in which 
lobbyist firms, trade associations, and other business groups were told 
by former House majority leader Tom Delay and others that they would 
encounter a closed door in Congress unless they hired members of the 
then majority party. This bill seeks to end that practice by 
prohibiting Members of Congress and their staff from influencing hiring 
decisions of any private organization on the sole basis of partisan 
political gain, and it carries with it a fine and imprisonment of up to 
15 years for violations. That is a stiff penalty, but hopefully it 
sends a stiff and strong signal that such practices will not be 
tolerated in the future.

Another issue that recently came to light is that Members of Congress 
convicted of bribery, perjury, conspiracy, and other related crimes can 
still receive their congressional pensions. I did not know this. 
Probably you didn't know this, Mr. President. But, fortunately, this 
bill ends that practice.

S. 1 also contains a number of major reforms to Senate rules, and I 
will highlight a few of the most important procedural reforms.

Section 511 amends rule XXVIII to subject ''dead of night'' additions 
to conference reports, when the new matter was not approved by either 
House, to a 60-vote point of order. This is a very important change in 
the rules, and it has been the bane of many our existence for a long 
period of time. You go through the process, and then after the process 
is concluded, in the dead of night, something is stuck into a 
conference bill. This practice will end.

Currently, when an out-of-scope provision is added to a conference 
report, we can object, but the objection brings down the whole bill. 
The reform in this bill will allow a Member to object to just the added 
provision.

I first proposed this provision in the last Congress and worked 
closely with Senator Lott on its development. I am very happy that it 
is included in the final bill.


Section 512 ends secret Senate holds by requiring the Senator placing 
a hold on a legislative matter or nomination to publicly disclose that 
hold within 6 days. This, too, is an important reform. We all know 
about anonymous holds. We all know what it takes to discover who 
actually has the hold. It is time those Members who seek to hold up 
legislation come forward and disclose who they are and why. We do not 
prohibit their ability to exercise this senatorial prerogative, but we 
do require that they be transparent and, therefore, public about it.

Section 513 requires that Senate committees and subcommittees post 
video recordings, audio recordings, or transcripts of all public 
meetings on the Internet.

A great deal of attention has been given to the dramatic escalation 
in the number of earmarks awarded by Congress, and I wish to spend a 
couple of minutes on the earmark provisions.



According to a survey of the Congressional Research Service, CRS, the 
number of earmarks has skyrocketed from 6,114 to 13,012 in 2006. So in 
6 years, the number of earmarks has more than doubled. Henceforth, 
earmarks which are in effect congressional additions to spending cannot 
be made in the dark of night but only in the full light of transparent 
disclosure. That is a big change.

This bill would require that the sponsor or the requester of each and 
every earmark be publicly identified, and because there is often 
disagreement about what does and does not constitute an earmark, the 
bill provides for the first time in Senate rules a definition that does 
not restrict the disclosure requirement to only appropriations bills. 
You and I, Madam President, serve on the Appropriations Committee, but 
there are also these authorizations that, in effect, are requests for 
added spending.

This new rule XLIV requires that all congressionally directed 
spending items, limited tax benefits, and limited tariff benefits in 
bills, resolutions, conference reports, and managers' statements be 
identified and posted on the Internet at least 48 hours before Senate 
action. So 48 hours before a bill comes to the floor, all of these 
additions must be transparently available to the public. It requires 
for the first time that Senators certify that they and their immediate 
family will not have a direct pecuniary benefit from the earmark they 
request as defined by rule XXXVII.

Separately, rule XLIV also subjects new directed spending added to a 
conference report when the new spending was not approved by either 
House to a 60-vote point of order so that you, Madam President, I, 
Senator Grassley, or anyone else can come to the floor and raise a 
point of order to that congressional add-on, and then that would be 
subject to a 60-vote point of order. If a Senator objects to the 
earmark being dropped into the conference report, it then will most 
likely be stripped out unless 60 Senators vote to keep it in.

Committees would also be required, to the greatest extent 
practicable, to disclose in unclassified language the funding level and 
the name of the sponsor of congressionally directed spending included 
in classified portions of bills, joint resolutions, and conference 
reports. The chairman of each committee is responsible for certifying 
that the list of earmarks is correct and properly identified. So there 
is also a burden placed on the chair of every committee and 
subcommittee.

Let me speak for a moment about gift and travel reform. The Senate 
rules have also been reformed to curb the special access that special 
interests seek to gain by providing Members with gifts, meals, and 
tickets to entertainment and sports events. This bill prohibits staff 
and Senators from accepting gifts from registered lobbyists or entities 
that employ them. The bill prohibits Senators from attending parties in 
their honor at national party conventions if they have been sponsored 
by lobbyists, unless the Senator is the party's Presidential or Vice 
Presidential nominee.

The bill amends rule XXXV by prohibiting Senators and their staff 
from accepting private travel from registered lobbyists or entities 
that hire them, and prohibiting lobbyists from organizing, arranging, 
requesting, or participating in travel by Senators or their staff. 
However, Senators and their staff, with preapproval from the Ethics 
Committee, will still be allowed to accept travel by entities that 
employ lobbyists if it is necessary to participate in a 1-day meeting, 
a speaking engagement, a fact-finding trip, or similar event. And 
Senators and their staff can still accept travel provided by 501(c)(3) 
organizations if the trip has been preapproved by the Ethics Committee.

Finally, Senators will be required to pay the fair market value--that 
is, the charter rate--for flights on private jets not operating or paid 
for by an air carrier that is certified by the FAA. Section 601 
separately establishes the same requirement for Senate candidates and 
Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates. This, in itself, is a 
consequential reform and somewhat controversial.

Finally, before closing, I would like to thank the majority leader 
for his unyielding determination to bring this bill forward. Without 
his dogged determination, and that of the Speaker of the House, I don't 
believe this bill would be before us today, and both are to be 
commended.

The 2006 election saw the largest congressional shift since 1994, and 
even with the war in Iraq on many voters' minds, Americans remain 
seriously concerned about ethics in government. It is time we listen to 
their concerns. This bill attempts to do so.

It is not always easy, it is not going to please everybody, and as I 
said in the beginning, Members are either going to feel that this bill 
is too strong about this part or that part, or too weak about this part 
or that part. But let me just reinforce that this is a conference 
report. It is not subject to amendment. It has been put together in an 
unusual procedure because of the objection from the other side to us 
going to conference, which would have been a far preferable method of 
handling this.

I once again repeat my commitment that as chairman of the Rules 
Committee, I will be happy to consider any amendments that the 
operation of this bill might indicate are warranted in the future.

I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor at this time.