# STUDENT VETERANS OF AMERICA, MINNEAPOLIS CHAPTER AT THE MINNEAPOLIS  COMMUNITY AND TECHNICAL COLLEGE
## `746ac7fe3cef3396da2cb0b70d53a14b`
`Mr. ELLISON â€” 9 March 2010`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize a valuable 
resource available to Minnesota veterans; the Student Veterans of 
America Chapter at the Minneapolis Community and Technical College 
(MCTC).

The Minneapolis group operates as a chapter of the national non-
profit organization. The Student Veterans of America have three primary 
missions: 1) Develop student veterans groups on college campuses and 
coordinate by region between existing groups; 2) connect student groups 
with resources; and 3) advocate on behalf of student veterans at the 
state and national level. Since their establishment, the Minneapolis 
chapter has consistently achieved these goals. Veterans who served in 
Iraq, Afghanistan and around the globe are welcomed by the staff at the 
Minneapolis chapter. Veterans are able to discuss issues, receive 
assistance, and share common bonds with fellow veterans who are 
experiencing the stress of integrating into an academic environment. 
Whether they ultimately transfer to another college or begin their 
professional careers, veterans who attend the Minneapolis Community and 
Technical College have a high graduation rate.

As a Nation, we owe a debt of gratitude to our veterans, who have 
served, and continue to serve, our country and I am proud to announce 
that veterans are receiving the respect and assistance they need from 
the Minnesota Chapter of the Student Veterans of America. MCTC is 
hosting an event to honor student veterans on March 10 as one of the 
many ways we express our appreciation for student veterans. I encourage 
my colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to find ways to 
honor student veterans in their communities.

The post-9/11 G.I. Bill passed by Congress has allowed more veterans 
an opportunity to achieve their academic goals. Organizations such as 
the Student Veterans of America, and the additional benefits available 
through the G.I. Bill, help to ensure that our veterans achieve their 
goals. I want all student veterans to know that I am grateful for their 
service and proud of their achievements. I wish them nothing but 
success and prosperity in their future endeavors.
