# None
## `749ed4331ab50f88901a33bafeb8df5d`
`Mr. BIDEN â€” 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I am happy to do that. I see the former 
distinguished ranking member of the Armed Services Committee is on the 
floor. Let me say at the outset how much I appreciate both him and the 
chairman of the committee for making some very constructive suggestions 
as to how to amend my amendment.

At the appropriate time, I will call up the amendment and move for 
its modification. But I want to, at the outset, tell the Senator from 
Virginia how much I appreciate his leadership. The truth is, he and I 
had a fairly extensive colloquy on the floor last week on this 
amendment. True to his word, the Senator said he was going to take a 
look at this amendment, he was seriously interested in it, and he 
wanted to look at it. As is always the case with the Senator from 
Virginia, he kept his word. He not only kept his word, but he improved 
what Senator Brownback and I and Senator Boxer and others had come 
forward with. Again, at the appropriate time, I will move to amend 
Biden-Brownback along those lines.

But, as I understood it, there was the possibility that if we had 
gotten the unanimous consent agreement, there would be 15 minutes on a 
side. I know a number of people want to speak. I had an opportunity to 
speak on this amendment at length last week.

My distinguished colleague from California, who I must say--and I am 
sure my colleagues will fully appreciate this--we would not have gotten 
to this point were it not for the Senator from California. Her embrace 
of this approach well over a year ago, quite frankly, legitimized this 
in a way on my side of the aisle that no one else, quite frankly, could 
have done.

The fact that it has such, at this point--and, God willing, as my 
grandfather would say, and the ''crick'' not rising--hopefully, when we 
vote, it will bear out what I am about to say. This has genuine 
bipartisan support but not merely bipartisan support. This has genuine 
support that crosses ideological divides as narrow or as wide as they 
are in this body. I think that is a very hopeful sign for the emergence 
of a policy in Iraq that would give us some real opportunity.


With the Chair's permission and my colleagues' permission, I would 
like to yield the floor to my colleague from California, if she would 
like to speak to this amendment.

I yield the floor.