# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `74ace92c61997f821646c2b502bd45cd`
`Mr. BENNETT â€” 19 May 2009`

---


Mr. BENNETT. Madam President, I rise to thank the chairman of the 
full committee, along with the ranking member, for their wisdom with 
respect to the money allocated for Guantanamo Bay and the prison there. 
I want to make a few comments with respect to the prison at Guantanamo 
Bay.

I have visited the prison at Guantanamo Bay. I led a CODEL--for those 
watching on television, that means a congressional delegation--of 
myself, members of the House, and, on this occasion, I took some 
members of the European Parliament. That is interesting, because when 
we came back and held a press conference to report what we had found, 
members of the European Parliament on the CODEL said, ''We cannot 
participate in this press conference.'' I said, ''Why?'' They said, 
''If we told the truth about what we saw at Guantanamo, we could not go 
home to Europe. The animosity toward Guantanamo in Europe is so strong 
that if we told the truth about how good things are down there, we 
would be attacked politically in Europe and we would lose our seat in 
the European Parliament.''

I said: Well, I don't want you to lose your seats in the European 
Parliament. I won't ask you to participate. But we did hold a press 
conference, and one of those who did participate said: I wish the 
prisons in my district back home were as good as the prison in 
Guantanamo.

Let me describe what we found in Guantanamo, not with respect to how 
well the prison was designed or how well the prison was administered 
but who the prisoners are, or, as they are appropriately called, the 
detainees.

If you talk to the detainees, every one of them is a goat herder 
picked up by accident by the American troops when they were in 
Afghanistan or in Iraq or wherever it was. None of them had any 
connection with al-Qaida at all. This was all a huge mistake.

I have been in the storeroom where they keep all of the items that 
were taken from these detainees when they were picked up. The question 
arises: What is a goat herder doing with hundreds of dollars of 
American money in $100 bills? What is a goat herder doing with 
sophisticated explosive equipment in his back sack? What is a goat 
herder doing with forged passports and other information and 
documentation? Maybe these people are not all goat herders. Maybe these 
people really are connected with al-Qaida, just based on what they 
found.

I have watched an interrogation take place at Guantanamo by closed-
circuit television. The interrogation room is one which has stuffed 
furniture, pleasant surroundings. The detainee, to be sure, has irons 
on his legs so that he cannot leave his chair where he is sitting. They 
are not tying him directly to the chair, but he couldn't get up and 
walk out. But he is sitting on the chair, and the interrogator is 
sitting across the room in another chair, and they are having a 
pleasant conversation.

You say: What kind of an interrogation is this? The interrogation is 
a conversation, and it goes on for an hour, an hour and a half. Then 
next week there is another conversation that goes on for an hour, an 
hour and a half, 2 hours, whatever it might be. Out of those 
conversations, little items begin to slip from the mouth of the 
detainee. The interrogator is able to take those items and piece them 
together, and pretty soon, after a few weeks or maybe a month or two, 
the interrogator knows that goat herder A has just identified goat 
herder B as an explosives expert high in the level of al-Qaida. Then, 
based on that information, when goat herder B is in for his 
interrogation, there is a conversation, and another thing starts to 
slip. Over a period of months, a pattern of information emerges that 
makes it possible to identify who is what and where in the whole al-
Qaida operation.

Understand, the interrogation is not Soviet style to try to beat a 
confession out of anybody. It is to find out information that can be 
used in the war against terror. This information is painstakingly put 
together over a period of time. Pretty soon, the pattern emerges, and 
the interrogators begin to understand who these people are, what their 
relationship to each other may be, and what their role was out on the 
battlefield.

One of the things I had not realized until I got there was that as a 
result of this process, the determination has been made with respect to 
hundreds of these detainees that they are no longer dangerous, they no 
longer have any information we need, they are no longer in a position 
to be dangerous to the United States. When that determination is made, 
they are released.

Hundreds of the detainees at Guantanamo have been released. Many of 
them have showed up again on the battlefield. Indeed, some of them have 
been killed by American troops on the battlefield as they have been 
fighting back, which means the interrogators who decided they were no 
longer dangerous made a mistake. It turns out they really were 
dangerous, they really were connected at a higher level than we were 
able to determine through the interrogator, and they had fooled the 
interrogator into believing they were innocent bystanders who somehow 
did not belong there, and they got released and found their way back to 
Afghanistan, back to the battlefield. Some of them whom we knew well 
enough from their time in Guantanamo identified on the battlefield were 
shot and killed by American forces in firefights where they were 
attacking Americans.

One of the things they do at Guantanamo--''they'' being the 
detainees--is to make every effort to communicate with each other and 
create conspiracies within the prison. Conspiracies to do what? 
Conspiracies to create incidents that will create international outrage 
against the United States.

Two weeks before we arrived there, there was one such incident. I had 
not seen it in the American newspapers. I was told that it was reported 
in the American newspapers but only in passing. When we got the details 
from the guards and the administrators of the prison describing the 
specifics of what had happened, I realized that the story in the 
American newspapers was very sketchy.

Over a period of months, the detainees conspired together to create 
an incident in the area that was part of the exercise facility. They 
planned it very carefully. They worked together. They complied with all 
of the rules in the prison that would allow them greater freedom 
because as the commandant of the prison said to us: I don't have very 
many sticks; I only have carrots.

To get people to cooperate, if they abide by the rules they lay down, 
we give them greater freedom, we give them greater opportunities. So 
these people would comply in every way until they could get to a 
circumstance where they could talk to each other, be on the exercise 
field, and hatch their plan.

Finally, this is what they did. They put up some screens in the form 
of clothing or some kind of cover so that the guards, for a short 
period of time, could not see what they were doing in this room. In 
that period of time, they pulled down the fluorescent tubes from the 
light fixtures in the ceiling so that they could use them as weapons. 
At the same time, they covered the floor with a variety of liquids, 
their purpose was to make the floor as slippery as possible. Then when 
the guard came in to see what was going on because the screens had gone 
up, as he walked in, suddenly he was standing on liquids that were 
slippery so that he couldn't


get his footing very well, and they were attacking him with the 
fluorescent tubes as weapons, trying to create a significant incident. 
Fortunately, he was able to keep his footing. He was able to pull out 
his weapon. He was able to gain control of the situation, and the rest 
of the guards were alerted fast enough to come in before it turned into 
serious injury. But the American guard came very close to serious 
injury.

Their hope was, as nearly as the interrogators could figure out, to 
provoke the Americans into killing one of them. Their hope was to 
create a circumstance where there would be a death in Guantanamo that 
would create a worldwide outcry of outrage against the brutal Americans 
in this prison and thereby make their political point.

There were many other examples which were given to us of attacks on 
the guards by the prisoners in circumstances, again, that are not 
appropriate to discuss in this setting but that are thoroughly 
disgusting and outrageous in terms of the violation of the person of 
the guards involved.

On one occasion where it was particularly outrageous, it was a young 
woman who had joined the Navy and was in her first assignment doing her 
best to patrol up and down an aisle between the cells. In this case, 
the cells had screens on them through which items could be thrown. They 
were thrown at her and in her face.

Their commanding officer said to her: Go take a shower and take the 
afternoon off, to recover from this horrendous kind of experience for 
her.

She said: I will take the shower, I will get a clean uniform, but I 
will come back. I will not let them intimidate me to say I can no 
longer walk my patrol.

That is the kind of valor and integrity we have from the Americans 
who are there policing these people.

I could go on about other things we discovered. The primary health 
care problem the detainees have in Guantanamo is obesity. They are fed 
so well and they have no control on how much they eat; they can use 
whatever they want from the food as they come into the commissary. The 
doctors and the nurses who are there to take care of them say we have a 
problem of overweight with every one of them. They have never had this 
much food available to them in their lives.

They are all looked after. Many of them came with significant health 
care problems off the battlefield, and it is the American medical corps 
that has made them well and whole.


Why do I dwell on all of this about the nature of the prisoners? 
Because I am sympathetic with those Americans who say: We don't want 
these people in our prisons. And indeed we don't--not because of a 
''not in my backyard'' syndrome, but guards who are trained to deal 
with the kinds of prisoners who show up in American prisons now are not 
prepared to deal with people who are potential suicides to make a 
point, people who will deliberately provoke the guard in the hope that 
they will get killed or seriously injured in order to make an 
international incident. This is not your average automobile stealer. 
This is not even your average drug dealer. This is someone who has a 
political agenda and sees the prison in America as the stage on which 
that agenda can be acted out. To put that prisoner into an American 
prison where they are going to be rubbing shoulders with other convicts 
who have absolutely no idea what they are getting into and call upon 
guards to deal with them who have no idea what they are getting into is 
seriously not a good idea.

Where do you keep people like this? You keep them in a facility that 
is designed to deal with them. You keep them with guards who are 
trained to deal with them. And you use the facility to get the 
information they can give you to be helpful in the war on terror. That 
is what the prison at Guantanamo was built to become, and that is what 
it is.

If the President of the United States now decides that keeping 
Guantanamo open is a political embarrassment with other countries in 
the world and it becomes necessary for us in our diplomacy to close 
Guantanamo, I say that is his decision. The Constitution gives him the 
responsibility of foreign affairs, and I will respect that decision. 
But as a Member of the Congress, I don't want to fund that decision 
until I know what he has in mind as an alternative place to put them. 
The idea of breaking them up and scattering them around the United 
States and letting them go to ordinary prisons--be they Federal, State, 
or local--in the United States is to ignore who they are and ignore 
what they can do and ignore the challenge they represent to law 
enforcement and penitentiary personnel in America's existing 
prisons. So that is why I applaud the chairman in his decision to say 
we are going to put this off. We are going to delay the time when 
Guantanamo will be closed until we have a logical place to put them.


Because right now, if you want to describe the logical place to put 
these prisoners at this time, in this particular struggle with al-Qaida 
and the rest of the terrorists, the logical place is where they are 
right now. If it means keeping Guantanamo prison for an extra year or 
an extra 2 years or whatever it takes to get an intelligent 
alternative, I say, let's do that. Because the intelligent alternative 
does not exist at the moment.

I hear no plans being drawn to create it in the future. I think we 
owe it to those Americans who would otherwise have to deal with it if 
the U.S. Navy doesn't, to say we are not going to turn them over to you 
until you have a legitimate and well-thought-out plan as to the way to 
deal with it.

It is for that reason, again, that I congratulate the chairman and 
the committee on the decision to withhold this funding until such a 
plan has been made available to us.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.