# None
## `758635aca3875c2429a1b9c6c0ebc793`
`Mr. WEXLER â€” 3 December 2009`

---


Mr. WEXLER. Madam Speaker, Ms. Granger, Mr. Whitfield and myself, as 
Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus on U.S.-Turkish Relations and 
Turkish Americans, Turkey Caucus, want to welcome Turkish Prime 
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to the United States. We believe the 
Prime Minister's visit reaffirms the longstanding strategic partnership 
between the United States and Turkey, and is a unique opportunity to 
enhance and foster economic, political, and security relations.

As many of our Congressional colleagues know, our NATO ally Turkey 
valiantly stood shoulder-to-shoulder with the United States and 
European partners throughout the Cold War. Over the past 20 years, 
Turkey has been integral to American and NATO efforts in the Balkans 
and has worked to enhance peace and stability in Central Asia and the 
Middle East. Turkey has also played a critical leadership role along 
with America and the international community in both Afghanistan and 
Iraq. We are hopeful that Turkey will continue to play a leading role 
alongside the United States, P5+1 partners and the international 
community with respect to Iran's nuclear program.

We also want to highlight and praise the historic steps recently 
taken by Prime Minister Erdogan and his government to normalize 
Turkey's relations with its neighbor Armenia. With the support of the 
United States, both countries on October 10, 2009 signed two protocols 
to achieve this goal. We believe that, with the continuing support of 
the United States and the international community, these protocols will 
provide a new impetus for the solution of other conflicts in the South 
Caucasus region.

Many of our colleagues appreciate the growing importance of our 
strategic relationship with Turkey which was described by President 
Obama during his visit to Turkey in April as a ''Model Partnership.'' 
We are heartened by the fact that the Turkey Caucus, which began over 8 
years ago, now numbers one hundred members.

The growth of the Turkey Caucus is a testament to the importance that 
members of Congress place on U.S.-Turkish relations and a recognition 
of the longstanding partnership between our two nations. Again, we 
welcome Prime Minister Erdogan to Washington, and believe that his 
discussions with President Obama and the Administration will only serve 
to strengthen the U.S.-Turkish partnership as we face difficult global 
challenges.
