# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `75d5bef2261d4f6a471c298ead0f82b6`
`Mr. DeMINT â€” 25 February 2008`

---


Mr. DeMINT. Mr. President, I appreciate the words of the chairman on 
the need to improve Indian health care. It is clear from the Government 
Accounting Office study that there is no doubt Indian health is 
suffering and there are many reforms that are desperately needed. I 
wish to talk about several amendments we proposed that we think will 
help the bill. One is related to what Senator Dorgan was just talking 
about and the fact that there is just not enough money currently to 
provide the health care that is needed for many Indians across the 
country today.

Unlike a lot of other Federal support for health care, Indian health 
care provides 100 percent coverage to all members of tribes across the 
country, regardless of income level. The problem that creates at a time 
when we are offering new programs and reforms is we are not offering 
enough money to actually support all the programs that are in this new 
bill.

My amendment No. 4073, which we call the Indian gaming amendment, 
would allocate the scarce resources to the poorer tribes by excluding 
some of the richer tribes that benefit from class III or casino-style 
gambling.

Many of us have looked at the statistics. Revenues from Indian casino 
gambling have surpassed $12 billion, and many members of these tribes 
will receive income from these casinos from $30,000 to over $300,000. 
There are clear discrepancies in the income in the tribes across the 
country, and in designing Indian health care reform, it is important 
that we recognize that fact.

In 2001, there were 290 Indian casinos across 28 States that brought 
in more than $12.5 billion with more than $5 billion in profit. To put 
this in context, the average family in South Carolina makes around 
$50,000 a year. These families, sometimes on their own, sometimes 
through their employers, have to pay and help pay for their health care 
and many times deductibles and copays. The average income in the tribes 
that have casino gambling is generally much higher than that amount. 
Yet we are providing free health care for these tribes.

This amendment would exclude from the new programs in the underlying 
bill those tribes with casino gambling, class III gambling, which would 
take the money that is provided in the bill and allocate it to the 
poorer tribes, which uses just basic common sense. If we have a limited 
amount of money to go around, let's target those tribes with the 
greatest poverty and the greatest need and allow those tribes with the 
highest incomes to participate in purchasing their own health care. 
That is amendment No. 4073. We will vote on that amendment today.

Let me address another amendment that will be voted on today; that 
is, amendment No. 4070 which recognizes that some of the programs in 
the bill that are designed for injury prevention or safety have 
actually been used in the past by Government agencies to promote 
antifirearm programs, gun buyback programs, or programs that generally 
stigmatize the ownership of guns for collecting, hunting, or self-
defense.

This amendment provides that none of the funds in the bill may be 
used to fund antifirearm programs, gun buyback programs, or programs 
aimed at discouraging or stigmatizing the private ownership of firearms 
for collecting, hunting, or self-defense. That is basically the 
language in the bill.

We know from programs we have looked at before--we have legislation, 
for instance, that we passed that would prohibit the Centers for 
Disease Control from doing exactly the same thing; that is, using money 
that is supposed to be used for safety programs or other injury 
prevention and actually use it to promote a political agenda which is 
an anti-second-amendment agenda. This is another amendment we will vote 
on today.

So two amendments we will be voting on today after the cloture motion 
vote is the Indian gaming amendment that would exclude those tribes 
that have the revenue from casinos, as well as the other amendment 
which would prohibit funds from being used to stigmatize the ownership 
of guns.

Mr. President, I wish to address another amendment which is pending 
to this bill, which is what we call the health savings account choice. 
This amendment would simply make another choice available to Indians in 
the purchase of their health care. Right now, they have most of the 
options that we have at the Federal level in our Federal employees 
plan, but they do not yet have a health savings account option which we 
have added to our Federal programs. This simply would allow Indians the 
same choice that we have. They could purchase a PPO or other plans--
managed care, HMO, or with this amendment, they could also have a 
health savings account with a high-deductible plan.



I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment. I am actually 
working with the chairman on the possibility that this amendment could 
be accepted and avoid a vote on the amendment tomorrow; otherwise, we 
will be voting on it tomorrow before final passage.

I wish to make a few comments on a second-degree amendment that I 
added to one of these amendments the week before we left last week 
which we call the Semper Fi amendment. This is an amendment that is not 
germane and will fall after cloture but still deserves some 
comment. The Semper Fi amendment is named in honor of the marine motto, 
which means ''always faithful,'' and it is a bill which I introduced 
after the Berkeley, CA, city council voted to refer to our marines as 
unwelcome intruders and had proposed that they leave town--that their 
recruiting office actually leave town. When I heard of this, it 
immediately angered me and we developed this bill which would simply 
take away about $2 million of wasteful Federal earmarks, which were not 
voted on in the Senate or the House, but were added as what we call 
report language. We are not trying to take away all their Federal 
funding but simply to say, if they are not going to respect our marines 
or their mission, which part of it is recruiting, then certainly they 
should not be the beneficiary of taxpayer-funded earmarks, and 
certainly those that aren't necessary.


When I first introduced this bill, it was more to make a point and 
maybe rattle the cages of the city council, because I know all the 
people in Berkeley don't feel this way. If anyone looked at the video--
and it was one of the most watched videos on YouTube--you could see 
person after person stepping up and maligning our marines and the job 
they are doing, not only in Iraq but throughout history, and referring 
to them as murderers and thugs, unthinkable things being said about the 
same marines who provided them their freedom of speech.

Some have said by my introducing this bill I am against freedom of 
speech, and that is not it at all. In fact, the anti-American group 
Code Pink had been demonstrating for months in front of the marine 
recruitment office there in Berkeley, and I have no problem with that. 
They have every right. But they wanted more than freedom of speech, 
they wanted the power of the local government behind them, to give them 
an advantage over those who supported the marines, supported their 
mission, and supported our country. So the city council voted to give 
Code Pink a free parking place in front of the marine recruitment 
office, and also voted to give them a permit to use a bullhorn, a 
megaphone, to shout down any who would want to come into that 
recruitment office. That is not free speech. That is a government-
sponsored political agenda that took the side of a few liberal 
demonstrators against traditional Americans and the marines who have 
fought for our freedom of speech.

My amendment got a fair amount of attention and a lot of supporters 
here in the Senate, which I appreciate. The same bill was also 
introduced in the House by a number of Republicans. I have been 
surprised at the response we have gotten--literally thousands of phone 
calls and e-mails and letters. What this has exposed to me is it is not 
only a single event, but it has exposed a raw wound not only of our 
marines but everyone serving in uniform, and their families.

I have heard it when I have been in Iraq, more than once, when I ask 
our soldiers, marines, and airmen what they need, and the response has 
often been: Don't forget us. The letters and e-mails I have gotten have 
indicated the same thing, that finally some are standing up for those 
who are fighting for our freedoms.

I was surprised by the response. I have gotten letters at home from 
mothers who have sent me pictures of their marines, thanking those of 
us who have stood up for their marines. I have agonized over the fact 
that they need someone to stand up for them.

But when I go back and see what was said in this Chamber and the 
House Chamber, and what governments such as the city of Berkeley have 
done, it should come as no surprise to us that there are doubts in the 
minds of those who put on the uniform that we support them, that we 
believe in what they do, and that we support their constitutional 
mission to recruit and to talk about what we offer in our services. 
People--Americans--are concerned about this.

We have tried to get the Semper Fi act on the floor for an up-or-down 
vote, and we have not been able to do so. We tried to pass it by 
unanimous consent, which got 100 percent Republican support but was 
blocked on the Democratic side. I added it to an amendment to this 
bill, to try to get a vote, but it will fall after we vote for cloture.

I promise the marines and all those in uniform that I am going to 
continue to persist until we get a vote on this, because it is not just 
about this amendment, it is not just about those who support it, it is 
about letting those who put on the uniform and who are willing to fight 
for our freedoms know we stand behind them. When any government, at any 
level, takes a position against them, it is our responsibility here in 
the Congress to stand up for those marines and those fighting men and 
women and not to allow them to be taken advantage of and intimidated 
and bullied by some local government such as we saw in Berkeley.

I have been happy to see some local governments across the country 
actually pass resolutions in support of the marine recruiters, and I 
appreciate any across this country who stand and make a statement on 
behalf of those who are fighting for our freedom. Again, I emphasize 
that anyone who wants to speak out in protest against marine 
recruiters, against the Iraq war, or anything, it is their free right. 
But when government, whether it is a local government or a State 
government, takes a position against our Federal constitutional 
amendment to defend this country, which requires the recruitment of 
marines, soldiers, airmen, and Coast Guard, that is part of our job. It 
is not freedom of speech when a local government takes a position 
against what we are charged to do here at the Federal level.

I encourage all those parents, all those in uniform, that the 
majority of those here in the Senate, in the House, and across this 
country respect and appreciate what you are doing every day. I got back 
from Iraq last week, with 2 days on the ground, and I know I speak for 
all my colleagues when I say I was never prouder of my country and what 
I do here than when I stood with those in uniform who are sacrificing, 
in many instances, more than a year away from their family, and some on 
second and third tours. They are fighting for us and we need to stand 
up for them. I am going to continue to persist until my colleagues give 
me a chance to stand with our marines and to support the Semper Fi 
bill.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I reserve the remainder of my 
time.