# None
## `7613566209322d7aae7f2dabaf8ce3df`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio â€” 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. The opposite of that, if there is not a date 
certain, that means that there is no end. And quite frankly, if there 
is no end in sight, how do we expect the Iraqi troops to get trained 
and to actually stand up if they think we are going to continue to be 
there? You know, it's like raising kids, at some point they've got to 
leave the house. They've got to stand up on their own. They've got to 
go pay their own rent, their own cars, their own insurance and 
everything else. I think that is what we are trying to communicate. 
We're not saying we want an end date just to have an end date. There is 
a reason. I think it is important for the Iraqis to know that the 
American people are not going to support this forever, and they need to 
stand up, regardless of what side you are on on the vote a few weeks 
ago or at the beginning of the war.

I want to talk about what happened last night and today on the House 
floor and what bill we were trying to pass. As most people know who are 
paying attention to this now, we have a procedure here where we bring a 
bill to the House floor after it goes through the committee process. 
And yesterday it came to the House floor and it was what we will call 
an open rule, so anyone can offer an amendment. There were over 140 
amendments to the Homeland Security bill. And our friends in the 
minority who used to run the Chamber, Republicans, Madam Speaker, were 
frustrated about earmarks in the congressional process, and so they 
were protesting this bill. They kept invoking a motion called a motion 
to rise, which basically ends debate on the bill and on the amendments 
and stops the process. They did this, I think, nine times last night, 
and debate went until 2 in the morning.

I share this with other Members and those paying attention, Madam 
Speaker, because they, in essence, filibustered the Homeland Security 
bill. And it is important for us to recognize what this bill does. This 
funds the Homeland Security Department. I want to go through this 
because our friends filibustered more border patrol agents, 3,000 that 
the Democrats were trying to fund and get to the border so that we can 
secure our border.

Now, we hear from our friends on the other side about border 
security, about illegal immigrants, about all of this stuff that they 
keep talking about about illegal immigrants and terrorists. Last night 
and today, Mr. Meek, we tried to put 3,000 Border Patrol agents on the 
border, and they filibustered the bill. So we have not had a vote on 
this bill. It has not passed the House.

We had money in here for first responders, for our firemen, those 
people who would arrive on a scene first in the most critical time in 
the most critical positions. They filibustered that. So this bill did 
not pass the House.

We have equipment and technology that will allow us to keep our ports 
safe and to monitor what is coming into our ports and detect possible 
attacks on the United States; the Republicans filibustered that. And 
this bill did not leave the House floor today as it was scheduled. 
State grants for law enforcement, $90 million, urban area grants. The 
list goes on and on. Transit grants; emergency management perform 
grants; fire grants; metropolitan medical response grants; 
interoperable communication grants; port security grants; REAL ID 
grants; explosive detection systems; air cargo explosive screenings. It 
did not pass the House because the Republicans filibustered the bill 
today. You know why? Because of earmarks. And you know what? There 
wasn't one earmark in this bill, not one; not a Democratic earmark, not 
a Republican earmark. It was pure politics today on the House floor, 
Mr. Meek. You know it, I know it, they know it. And who suffered 
through all of this? The American people.

Let me make one final point before I volley it back over to you. The 
National Intelligence Estimate stated last year that the war in Iraq 
has created more terrorists around the world who hate America. Okay. So 
whether you were for or against the war in Iraq at this point is 
irrelevant, really. What are we going to do now? Well, the National 
Intelligence Estimate has said that there are more terrorists who hate 
America now. So now there are more terrorists out there than there were 
before, around 9/11, that are going to come to America and try to harm 
us.

So, in order to combat that, the majority of the Democrats are 
saying, why are we fighting this war in a country that had nothing to 
do with 9/11, was not harboring terrorists, was not the Taliban, right? 
And we have this war going on. Democratic philosophy is, fund the 
Homeland Security bill. Protect our ports; protect our borders; fund 
our first responders. Let's put some money so we can have more Arabic-
speaking translators so that the stuff we are pulling down off the 
satellites we can translate. Right now we don't even have enough 
translators to translate the tapes that we are taping from the 
satellites from terrorists around the world.

Let's be smart. This isn't 1940. You don't drop big bombs anymore. 
Everything is decentralized; it's more delicate, it's more complicated. 
It takes a more complex constructive debate, not filibustering the 
demagogue earmarks in a bill where there are no earmarks.

I thought what happened in the last 24 hours has been a real 
disservice to the American people, and I think it continues to point 
out why they had a change of heart in the last election.

A couple of the comments that I would like to respond to, Mr. Meek, 
that were made today and last night. First of all, we hear a lot from 
our Republican friends, Madam Speaker, that the Democrats are fiscally 
irresponsible, okay? Which holds absolutely no water.