# NATIONAL SECURITY FOREIGN INVESTMENT REFORM AND STRENGTHENED  TRANSPARENCY ACT OF 2007
## `763e334abfec375a81639a1556ee5d23`
`Mr. DREIER â€” 28 February 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this rule and 
the underlying legislation.

I have to say, as I listen to my good friend from New York (Mrs. 
Maloney), who has worked long and hard on this, it didn't take a year 
for us to pass this measure through the House of Representatives; it 
passed, as the gentlewoman said, by a vote of 421-0 in the last 
Congress, and that was in response to the DPW deal, which obviously 
raised a number of concerns from a number of people in this 
institution.

Mr. Speaker, this is a Republican bill, which, as the distinguished 
chairman of the Committee on Financial Services pointed out in the 
Rules Committee last night, enjoys strong bipartisan support, and it 
enjoys the kind of support that motherhood and apple pie enjoy. There 
is no controversy to this bill whatsoever. And I am very proud of the 
fact, as the gentlewoman from New York said, that we are now, by 
passing an open rule for the second time in the 110th Congress, 
doubling the record that we had in the 109th Congress when it came to 
open rules. But the true test will come when we are dealing with a 
controversial issue that does not enjoy strong bipartisan support. That 
is where this Madisonian vision of a clash of ideas is very important, 
Mr. Speaker.

And so I hope very much that as we bring measures, both of which in 
the 110th Congress were passed by unanimous votes in the 109th 
Congress, to the floor, and we are very proud of the fact that they are 
being considered on an open rule, I hope very much that we will do 
everything that we possibly can to ensure that debates like the one 
that we had 2 weeks ago on the issue of Iraq are considered under a 
process that will allow maybe a chance for the minority to consider a 
substitute, or a process that would, again, bring that clash of ideas, 
because it is very clear there was complete agreement on the fuels bill 
that we dealt with 2 weeks ago under an open rule, extraordinarily 
strong bipartisan support. There is complete agreement on the goal of 
CFIUS reform. Yes, we know that 12 amendments were filed by seven 
Members last night that will be considered here on the House floor 
under this open amendment process, but at the end of the day, 
Republicans and Democrats will come together in support of this.

The true test, Mr. Speaker, will be whether or not we take up a 
measure where there is strong, vigorous disagreement on the part of our 
Members. But I will say that we need to recognize that the two most 
important issues that we face as Members of this institution are the 
issues of, first and foremost, our national security; and, second, 
ensuring that we create economic opportunity for all Americans and 
maintain the strong, bold, dynamic growth that we have in our economy.

This measure that we are addressing today actually addresses both 
issues, Mr. Speaker. It will strengthen the process by which our 
national security stakeholders in the administration, from the Defense 
Department to the National Security Agency, review and investigate 
foreign investors in the U.S. economy. It focuses in particular on 
those companies that are controlled by foreign governments or are based 
in countries that support terrorism. These are commonsense reforms that 
again enjoy strong bipartisan support that will provide an adequate 
level of scrutiny to ensure that no investment poses a national 
security threat to our interests. However, it also ensures a process 
that, while thorough, is not prohibitive. This legislation is a 
reflection of the need for a review process that does not close us off 
to the vital foreign investment that is a major source of our economic 
strength.

I again praise the distinguished Chair of the Committee on Financial 
Services who last night in the Rules Committee talked about the 
importance of foreign direct investment. FDI is very important to us, 
and if we look at our economic growth, there is a strong, strong 
reliance that we have had. Because economic security underpins national 
security, it is absolutely imperative that we work to ensure that our 
economy remains the world's best place to invest and do business.

Mr. Speaker, let me provide some numbers that not everyone is 
familiar with. Foreign companies currently employ 5.3 million Americans 
here in the United States. We just got the report of this Toyota plant 
that is going to be opening in Tupelo, Mississippi. It is important to 
note that those foreign investors who employ 5.3 million Americans 
actually pay wage rates that are 50 percent higher than the average 
wage paid here in the United States. Companies like Toyota, Siemens, 
Novartis come to the United States in order to tap into our powerful 
market, innovative environment and superior workforce. In the process, 
they generate greater economic activity, create high-paying jobs and 
improve our


standard of living. And we have enjoyed these benefits, Mr. Speaker, 
because of the openness, strength and dynamism of the U.S. economy.

As we debate the need for national security reforms to our review 
process, we must recognize that to close off our economy to the world's 
investors would be to close ourselves off to the prosperity and 
opportunities that we have long enjoyed as the world's best investment. 
We cannot lose sight of the fact that we have prospered not in spite 
of, but because of our Nation's openness.

I believe that this bill charts a smart path that preserves both 
national security and our ability to attract investment and grow our 
economy. My colleagues, as I said, all agree with me. We have been 
through this process before, as I said, in the 109th Congress.



The bill that was passed in the last Congress was sponsored by the 
gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Blunt), the distinguished minority whip, 
and this legislation which is virtually identical to the bill we are 
considering today, was considered by an overwhelming unanimous 
bipartisan vote.

Personally, I would very much like to see these good, well-crafted 
utterly noncontroversial bills where they belong, and that is on the 
suspension calendar where we passed it quickly and expeditiously in the 
last Congress.

But the fact of the matter is we are where we are, Mr. Speaker. It is 
important for us to recognize our priorities of national security, 
number one; and, number two, our economic strength and making sure that 
we expand that economic growth.

I urge support of this rule and the underlying legislation.