# FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `764646434b23c14bd9e8d4eced036051`
`Mr. SKELTON â€” 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, at the conclusion of the 109th Congress, 
Republicans adjourned for the year without completing work on 9 of the 
11 budget bills that fund the operations of the federal government. 
Completion of the federal government's annual budget is one of 
Congress' most critical tasks, but even though several months have gone 
by since the beginning of the fiscal year, only 2 of the 11 bills for 
fiscal year 2007--Defense and Homeland Security Appropriations--have 
been signed into law.

This failure to complete Congress' most basic task--to pay the 
country's bills--has left newly elected leaders of the House and the 
Senate with no choice but to make tough choices with regard to the 
fiscal year 2007 budget.

Since October 2006, the federal government has been operating on the 
basis of a temporary measure known as a continuing resolution. This 
resolution is set to expire on February 15, 2007, and unless Congress 
approves funding for federal programs covering Agriculture; Commerce, 
Justice, and Science; Energy and Water; Foreign Operations; Interior 
and the Environment; Labor, Health & Human Services, and Education; 
Legislative Branch; Military Construction and Veterans Affairs; and 
Transportation, Treasury, and Housing, federal government operations in 
these areas will cease.

Over the past weeks, House leaders have been writing legislation that 
would ensure the federal government remains operational through fiscal 
year 2007. Today, the House is considering H.J. Res. 20, a joint 
resolution that will keep the federal government open and require most 
federal programs to operate under tight budget constraints. While 
modest increases were allotted to some of America's high priority 
items, such as veterans' and military health care, law enforcement, and 
education, the bill cuts over 60 federal programs and rescinds 
unobligated balances on many other programs to pay for them. Further, 
the bill explicitly eliminates special funding provisions, commonly 
referred to as ''earmarks.''

H.J. Res. 20 is not a perfect bill, and I am concerned about how it 
might impact some federal programs that are important to Missouri 
residents. Despite my concerns, I have concluded that it is in our 
nation's best interest to quickly approve this appropriations package 
and focus our attention toward the President's fiscal year 2008 budget 
and the President's anticipated supplemental appropriations request for 
military efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. I commend Congressman Obey 
for drafting such complex legislation that makes the best of a bad 
situation.