# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `767dc86be8ba3feaaf887022f2d39961`
`Mr. TIERNEY â€” 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. TIERNEY. Mr. Speaker, I sometimes wonder, listening to this 
particular substitute, whether some people here, whether it's the 
administration or whether it's our friends on the other side of the 
aisle, have been sleepwalking through history. If you want to see a 
repeat of the last 8 years then, fine, let's get rid of all the 
accountability.

A billion and a half dollars now for the next 5 years is going to be 
given to the Pakistanis on the civil side of things. In the past, 
there's been tens of billions of dollars since their independence. We 
have maybe a structure that's supposed to be a school or a structure 
that's supposed to be a clinic standing somewhere but no teachers, no 
nurses, no doctors, no systems that actually work because there's been 
a total lack of accountability. This substitute amendment would 
continue that lack of accountability.

On the security side of things, we have a situation where we have 
$6.2 billion given in the coalition support funds which, essentially, 
were a blank check to General Musharraf and the military over there. 
What we got in return, when we finally started doing some oversight in 
January of 2007 and afterwards, was a determination that some 40 
percent of that had vaporized, cannot be accounted for. It was supposed 
to be going for things that are counterinsurgency, weaponry that would 
help fight a common problem of extremists in that country, and 
disappeared somewhere else.

This particular bill that the substitute is trying to undermine would 
put in place the accountability provisions. They are flexible enough. 
They simply say that you have to fight those extremists that are mutual 
problems. You have to make sure you stop people from going over the 
border to create problems in Afghanistan. You have to cooperate on 
nuclear nonproliferation, reasonable things.

The American people have a right to expect that their Representatives 
are going to be accountable for the billions of dollars. We are 
supposed to be having a partnership and a mature relationship with the 
Pakistanis. Then let's get over that notion that we're going to offend 
their sensibilities so that they won't actually cooperate with us if we 
want to put some conditions to make sure that our mutual problems are 
addressed with the billions of dollars of American citizens' money.

We've had 8-plus years of not having accountability on funds to that 
country and others. We've had times since 2002 where we had totally no 
accountability. Let's stop sleepwalking. Let's get the problem 
resolved. Let's make sure we have accountability.

I say vote against the substitute; vote for the underlying bill.