# None
## `77894d6f0063c16ad35954752ef3c360`
`Mr. INSLEE â€” 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. INSLEE. And just to back up what Mrs. Boyda said, she's not just 
whistling Dixie--or Kansas in this case--she has backed up what the GAO 
said. They said specifically, in finding number four of seven deadly 
sins, they said, ''The Air Force conducted misleading and unequal 
discussions with Boeing by informing Boeing that it had fully satisfied 
a key performance parameter objective relating to operational utility, 
but later determined that Boeing had only partially met this objective. 
And then there's a bunch of other language that's pretty technical.

But what happened here is, for some reason that I don't know for 
sure--I have some suspicions of what happened here, and that doesn't 
really matter--but for some reason the Air Force decided bigger was 
better. And they went and in their original decision opted for a bigger 
airplane and violated, in several different ways, the procurement rules 
in order to reach that conclusion.

Now, we've said that the Air Force has already recognized that their 
life cycle cost decisions were in error. But we really hope in this 
rebidding that they will not be persuaded that bigger is always better. 
And what we have found, and some of the things we've talked about 
tonight, why bigger is not better, it's actually worse in this 
particular case because when you build a plane that's that much bigger, 
that exceeds your real requirements, you end up spending a quarter more 
fuel and you end up spending $2 billion on construction costs.

And here's something that I think is important. The Airbus airplane 
can only use half as many airfields around the world as the Boeing 767. 
Now, you think of all the places we can end up in a military conflict 
around the world and all the relatively little airports that we may 
want to get involved in, I mean, who knew we were going to be flying 
from airports in Iraq 20 years ago when we made some procurement 
decisions? We have to be ready to fly these airplanes anywhere in the 
world. Yet the Airbus decision, if you buy this larger airplane, it can 
only use--I think it's either 200 or 400 airports that the Boeing plane 
can use that the Airbus plane cannot. I think that's really important, 
and one of the disadvantages of size. Plus, if you look at the 
requirements, the Boeing airplane fulfills the requirements that they 
asked for on how much capacity they had to have for refueling, Boeing 
met it.

So that's one of the things that Mrs. Boyda was alluding to that GAO 
said, just because you do more than the requirement, it doesn't do you 
any good. Why give extra bonus points to something that just costs more 
money and eliminates half the airports in the world where you can land? 
That doesn't make sense. And I think that was one of the reasons that 
GAO decided.

And I yield to Mrs. Boyda.