# None
## `77be964cf37837588ecaac3dc996497b`
`Mr. McMAHON â€” 5 May 2010`

---


Mr. McMAHON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today, to urge my colleagues to pass 
H. Res. 1320, a resolution honoring the citizens of New York City, the 
brave men and women of the NYPD, the FDNY, and all our federal and 
state partners in law enforcement and homeland security for their 
vigilance and prompt response to the attempted terrorist attack in 
Times Square this past Saturday, May 1, 2010.

I heard the news of the Times Square incident while traveling in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan, examining the connections between extremism 
across the world and terrorist attacks on our own soil.

And given the events of this past week, and the arrest of Faisal 
Shahzad the link is far too clear.

This resolution, which I introduced with my colleagues Congressman 
Jim Himes, and Congressman John Hall, along with the entire New York 
delegation, is in honor of New York City's local law enforcement teams, 
federal agencies and vigilant citizens for keeping our city, people and 
country safe. We commend their excellent, professional police and 
investigative work that led to the quick arrest of this terrorist.

Unfortunately, the fear of terrorism is never far from the mind of 
any New Yorker.

On Saturday, we were all reminded of the heart-felt loss that we 
endured nine years ago on September 11, 2001 and how much our world has 
changed since that tragic day.

New York City remains our nation's number one terrorist target--our 
greatest symbol of freedom, diversity, and entrepreneurial spirit. It 
is our nation's financial and cultural capital and as New York Police 
Commissioner Ray Kelly said yesterday, the terrorists are going to keep 
trying to attack us in New York City again and again.

That is why the federal government must increase homeland security 
funding and protection for New York City. Anti-terror funding must be 
distributed in a way that prioritizes those areas that are most at risk 
for future attacks.

I urge this body to increase funding and security programs in high 
priority areas like New York because protecting the homeland is just 
too important for politics as usual. Found immediately after the 
botched attack was a map on the Metro North Railroad to Connecticut 
identifying my own beloved Staten Island Ferry as a target and the 
subway stops that serve the Manhattan terminal as potential targets.

Walt Whitman once said that ''The genius of the United States is not 
best or most in its executives or legislatures, nor in its ambassadors 
or authors or colleges, or churches, or parlors, nor even in its 
newspapers or inventors, but always most in the common people.''

On Saturday, two Times Square vendors--Mr. Lance Orton and Mr. Duane 
Jackson--saw smoke billowing out of a SUV parked on West 45th Street in 
Times Square and took action.

They immediately contacted New York City Police Officer Wayne 
Rhatigan who started evacuating the area and called for additional NYPD 
and FDNY support, including the bomb squad.

These people saw something wrong and said something--and their 
actions saved lives and led to the arrest of a man who was seeking to 
kill countless numbers of innocent people.

Although, the actions of everyone involved in preventing Saturday's 
potential tragedy are remarkable, all Americans need to remain alert--
and we in the Congress need to support the brave men and women of the 
NYPD, and law enforcement officers across the Nation with the resources 
necessary to keep our Nation safe.

As Americans we learn not only from our mistakes but from our 
successes. The capture of Faisal Shahzad is commendable, but we have to 
examine why he was allowed to board an aircraft after being added to a 
no-fly list and why it took until literally the last minute before 
departure for him to be apprehended. We have got to get to a system for 
our security and our protection where we track every single person both 
entering and exiting our country.

In addition we must also continue to support our military and 
intelligence operations abroad to dismantle these terrorist networks. I 
just came back from Afghanistan and Pakistan and I can tell you the 
front line of our security right here at home is in those two 
countries. Our troops are the front line of defense in protecting the 
homeland from terrorism and they deserve our support and appreciation.

I urge all my colleagues to support H. Res. 1320.