# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `77ec55715033955d9afb9905d6e4baa6`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN â€” 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the 
Afghanistan-Pakistan Security and Prosperity Enhancement Act. The 
legislation, originally introduced as H.R. 1318, was subsequently 
incorporated into H.R. 1886, to authorize Democratic, Economic and 
Social Development Assistance for Pakistan, introduced by Congressman 
Berman, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This 
legislation is aimed at protecting our homeland and those of our allies 
in the fight against Al-Qa'ida and the Taliban in Afghanistan and 
Pakistan by providing tools for economic development.

We worked with the Bush Administration to craft the framework of this 
legislation. This initiative was subsequently embraced by President 
Obama who specifically incorporated it into his counterinsurgency 
strategy for Pakistan and Afghanistan. This bill authorizes the 
President of the United States to designate specific trade zones, known 
as Reconstruction Opportunity Zones (ROZs), in Afghanistan and in 
certain regions of Pakistan to create economic opportunities.

These ROZs will allow qualified businesses duty-free access into U.S. 
markets for designated products, thereby providing significant 
employment opportunities where few currently exist. A ROZ program could 
go a long way to bolster economic development in this critical region 
of the world where extremists have tried to exploit the lack of 
economic opportunities to gain recruits for their radical agenda.

Enhanced security efforts by the United States, as well as a strong 
foreign and military assistance program, are needed to disrupt and 
weaken Al-Qa'ida and the Taliban. These extremist groups exploit the 
poor socio-economic conditions, such as high unemployment, in the 
border areas, to gain adherents to their nefarious causes. With no 
meaningful alternatives, young men in particular are vulnerable to 
their entreaties.

This legislation was endorsed by the Washington Post in an editorial 
on March 22, 2009. Moreover, in a letter to the Speaker this week, 
Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, the State Department, Special 
Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, reiterated the 
Administration's support and noted that ''ROZs are an important 
component of the President's comprehensive national security strategy 
in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and we need enactment of ROZ legislation 
as quickly as possible to help facilitate success.''

I urge all Members of the House to support this valuable program and 
vote for this bill today. I ask unanimous consent to insert, into the 
Record, the speech of President Obama, the letter of Ambassador 
Holbrooke and the Washington Post editorial with my statement.



























Department of State,



















Washington, DC, June 10, 2009.


 Hon. Nancy Pelosi,


 Speaker, House of Representatives.



 Dear Madam Speaker: Thank you for giving me the opportunity 


 on Monday to discuss legislation creating Reconstruction 


 Opportunity Zones (ROZs) in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and to 


 reiterate the Administration's support. As you know, the 


 House version (H.R. 1318) of this bipartisan legislation is 


 sponsored by Representative Chris Van Hollen. Allow me to 


 reaffirm, in writing, the key points, in the hope they will 


 be useful as you proceed.



 First, let me emphasize that ROZs are a vital component of 


 our policy toward Pakistan in a moment of great challenge, 


 indeed crisis, for that critically important nation. 


 Pakistan's stability and security are directly related to our 


 own national security and the ROZ legislation addresses 


 issues central to the very area in which, at present, there 


 are well over 2 million internal refugees and in which the 


 Taliban and al-Qaeda are operating.



 Military power alone cannot bring peace to Afghanistan and 


 Pakistan. ROZs are an important component of the President's 


 comprehensive national security strategy in Afghanistan and 


 Pakistan, and we need enactment of ROZ legislation as quickly 


 as possible to help facilitate success. As the President put 


 it earlier this year in calling for Congress to enact this 


 bipartisan bill, ROZs will ''develop the economy [in the 


 border regions] and bring hope to places plagued by 


 violence.''



 By spurring economic growth and job creation, ROZs will 


 provide legitimate job opportunities in high-unemployment, 


 high-poverty areas in Pakistan and Afghanistan where 


 livelihood choices are extremely limited. We need ROZs now--


 economic opportunities must be expanded to quickly follow up 


 military operations with economic development to prove to 


 populations in critical targeted areas that there are 


 benefits to defeating the militants. Simply put, ROZs are 


 crucial to the ''build'' part of our ''clear-hold-build'' 


 counterinsurgency efforts and will help us to assist the 


 Governments of Pakistan and Afghanistan to create conditions 


 on the ground that will help marginalize the insurgents.



 ROZs will enhance our ''whole of government'' strategy and 


 will be a highly visible example of U.S. commitment to the 


 long-term prosperity of the Afghan and Pakistani peoples. On 


 my trips to Pakistan and Afghanistan, I hear a constant 


 refrain from all quarters in these societies about the 


 importance of this legislation, including the signal its 


 passage would send about the strength of the long-term 


 relationships between our peoples.



 Thank you again for your leadership. I am committed to 


 working with you and other Congressional leaders to quickly 


 enact Pakistan and Afghanistan ROZs into law.





 Sincerely,





















 Richard C. Holbrooke,





















Special Representative for




















 Afghanistan and Pakistan.