# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `789c8bfae499faf3014048c0a8a6079a`
`Mr. HOLT â€” 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Chairman, it's unfortunate that we even have to 
consider this bill. Proper care of our military wounded should be the 
top priority of our military medical establishment. As we know now, it 
was not a sufficient priority for the Secretary of the Army and several 
senior Army officers. Those individuals may be gone, but the problems 
they allowed to take root and fester must be eliminated. This bill is a 
good first step in that direction.

The Wounded Warrior Assistance Act seeks to correct the training, 
personnel, and oversight deficiencies that the Walter Reed Medical 
Center scandal revealed earlier this year. I want to be clear: the 
overwhelming majority of the men and women who work at Walter Reed are 
first-rate medical professionals who care deeply about the troops in 
their care. However, we now know that for several years, Walter Reed--
and almost certainly other DoD and VA medical facilities across the 
country--had been strained beyond its capacity.

Ill-advised decisions--including the outsourcing of administrative 
and maintenance personnel--clearly contributed to the appalling living 
conditions experienced by some soldiers at Walter Reed. I applaud the 
chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Mr. Skelton, for including a 
1-year moratorium on such outsourcing pending a review of the entire 
practice. I have long argued that it is a myth that the private sector 
can invariably do a better job than the Federal government with these 
kinds of services. We've already seen in Iraq how corporate contracting 
giants like Haliburton can make hundreds of millions of dollars while 
providing substandard services to troops in the field. I'm grateful 
that my colleagues on multiple committees are looking at these issues, 
and I'm sure the reforms in this bill will only be the beginning of our 
effort to re-evaluate the use of contractors within the Federal 
government.

This bill also mandates a review of the status of all DoD medical 
facilities, which is another key step in providing the oversight needed 
to ensure that any other hospitals or clinics with deficient care are 
identified and remedial measures taken immediately. I am confident that 
my friend from California, Mr. Filner, the chairman of the House 
Veterans Affairs Committee, is already taking the same steps. Indeed, 
another positive aspect of this bill is that it seeks to streamline and 
rationalize the transition process for veterans when they move from the 
DoD medical system to the VA for treatment and followup care.

This bill requires that DoD ensure the veteran's medical and related 
records are transferred in a timely fashion, and that veterans get pre-
separation counseling so that they understand the benefits they are 
entitled to and how to best interact with the VA medical system. 
Establishing a clear-cut mechanism for ensuring that veterans 
transition seamlessly from one system to another will require both a 
congressionally mandated structure, but perhaps even more important, 
continuous congressional engagement. That is why I am especially 
pleased that this bill mandates that members of Congress be informed 
any time one of their wounded military constituents enters the military 
medical system.

Current law requires DoD to notify members of the death of military 
constituents. These notifications, while bearing tragic news, allow us 
to provide the maximum possible assistance to families who have lost a 
servicemember. By now ensuring that we are informed when military 
constituents are wounded, we will be able to work proactively with the 
families to ensure the needs of the wounded are met in a more timely 
manner, and to provide us with a roadmap for oversight actions early 
on.

Mr. Chairman, I thank my friend from Missouri, Mr. Skelton, for the 
work that he and his committee colleagues have done to bring this 
measure before us today, and I urge my colleagues to join me in 
supporting it.