# GENOCIDE
## `789ec90c15dba83f714ed80ee89fb451`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 31 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today is a day which can be historic. 
Important items will be discussed on the floor of the Senate, including 
health insurance for literally millions of American kids. At the same 
time, there is a debate that has been started in New York at the United 
Nations Security Council. It is a debate about a genocide.



It is, thank goodness, rare that we have to address the issue of 
genocide in this world, but today we must. We are talking of a genocide 
today, in New York, at the Security Council, that has caused untold 
human misery, mass murder, dislocation, torture, rape, and the torching 
of entire villages. For 4 years the world has watched this tragedy. 
That's right, for 4 years.

Haven't we learned our lesson when it comes to letting genocide 
continue without taking action?

There is a great Senate story involving former Wisconsin Senator Bill 
Proxmire. In 1967, Senator Proxmire began a streak in the Senate that 
has never been broken. Mr. President, 18 years earlier, in 1949, 
President Truman had sent the United Nations Genocide Convention to the 
Senate for advice and consent. In 1967, it was still languishing, held 
up by a small band of Senators who opposed it. Many Senators just shook 
their head because of this opposition. Bill Proxmire rose to his feet.

Starting in 1967, Senator Proxmire made a speech every day the Senate 
was in session, for 19 years, imploring the Senate to adopt the 
Genocide Convention. All together, he gave 3,211 speeches--each one of 
them different. In 1986 the Senate gave its consent to the treaty.

Why did Senator Proxmire continue to give all those speeches, day 
after day, year after year? It wasn't just stubbornness. It was a moral 
obligation, and because he understood genocide was happening again. At 
that time it was happening in Cambodia.


Between 1975 and 1979 the Khmer Rouge murdered 2 million people. The 
United States wisely and bravely led the international effort to hold 
the Nazi co-conspirators to account at Nuremberg. We and the rest of 
the world failed to act while Cambodia was being turned into killing 
fields.

In 1994 we failed to act again when between 800,000 and 1 million 
people were murdered in Rwanda in 1 month.

Sadly, we have failed to take the necessary action to stop the 
genocide in Darfur. More than 2/1/2/ years have passed since the U.N. 
commission of inquiry concluded that:




 Crimes against humanity and war crimes have been committed 


 in Darfur and may be no less serious and heinous than 


 genocide.


Earlier this year, President Bush declared:




 For too long, the people of Darfur have suffered at the 


 hands of a government that is complicit in the bombing, 


 murder and rape of innocent civilians. My administration has 


 called these actions by their rightful name: genocide. The 


 world has a responsibility to put an end to it.


Yesterday, the new British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, said in a 
joint press conference with President Bush that:




 Darfur is the greatest humanitarian crisis the world faces 


 today.


Yet it is not simply enough to acknowledge genocide. We need to 
follow Senator Proxmire's example in having the courage, in real time, 
to act against it.

The crisis in Darfur has been repeated over and over. Paul Salopek, a 
Chicago Tribune reporter, was captured and jailed by the Khartoum 
government for 34 days last year. He wrote a haunting description of 
what one sees when you fly over the villages of Darfur. This is what he 
wrote:




 Their torched huts seen from the air, look like cigarette 


 burns on a torture victim's skin.


Most recently, Refugees International released a report documenting 
that:




 Rape on a mass scale is one of the hallmarks of the 


 conflict in the Darfur region of Sudan. An estimated 300,000 


 people in Darfur have been killed during this genocide; 


 300,000 people in a country of 40 million. In the United 


 States that would be the equivalent of over 2 million people 


 killed.


Incredibly, the Sudanese Government claims the atrocities are part of 
their war on terror. At a press conference in Washington earlier this 
summer, Sudan's Ambassador to the United States compared the slaughter 
to a family quarrel, and he said:




 Just you and your cousin fighting with you.


Just this last week, Sudanese President Bashir visited Darfur and 
said:




 Most of Darfur is now secure and enjoying real peace.


People there are ''living normal lives.''

These are lies. This is genocide. It is calculated. It is happening 
on our watch, in our time.

This week, the global community has a chance to finally make a 
difference. I am going to join today with Senators Feingold and 
Menendez in calling for a decisive vote at the United Nations on an 
expanded peacekeeping force and renewed diplomatic effort in Darfur. 
The U.N. Security Council will vote this week, maybe even today, on a 
new United Nations-African Union peacekeeping force that can make a 
dramatic difference in stemming the violence in Darfur. It also 
provides an equally important opportunity for peace negotiations.

After years of duplicity in the genocide, Sudanese President Bashir 
agreed last month to the significant expanded joint United Nations-
African Union peacekeeping force. Yet a series of his recent comments 
contradict that commitment, and a history of involvement in violence 
makes immediate action all the more important.

The need is simple--rapid deployment of the new peacekeeping force 
and a renewed diplomatic effort at a long-term political settlement.

I have tried in some small way to urge the members of the United 
Nations Security Council to act swiftly. I discussed urgency of these 
matters with U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon and the Ambassadors of 
China, Ghana, Republic of Congo, Russia, and South Africa. All were 
current or permanent members of the Security Council. It is the first 
time I have ever picked up the phone to call Ambassadors from other 
countries about a vote in the United Nations Security Council, but I 
think it is that important. It is my hope that our U.N. Ambassador, 
Zalmay Khalilzad, will work closely with these nations and Secretary 
General Ban to make these steps a reality.

I stressed to the Secretary General and to the Ambassadors that the 
Security Council should be firm in its mandate. We need a force with 
sufficient resources and numbers; a strong mandate to protect 
civilians, peacekeepers, and humanitarian workers; a clear U.N. command 
and control structure, and benchmarks with the threat of sanctions that 
hold the Sudanese Government accountable; no room for further stalling 
or delay by the Sudanese Government; a renewed diplomatic effort to 
bring about a long-term political settlement, including naming a 
Special Representative of the Secretary General to monitor 
implementation of a comprehensive peace agreement; and the force must 
be deployed as quickly as possible.

Congress, the administration, and the private sector--we all need to 
take action to end the genocide in Darfur. In Congress we have passed 
the Genocide Accountability Act, which allows the prosecution of 
genocide committed by anyone currently in the United States, regardless 
of where the genocide occurred. We have passed language in the Iraq 
supplemental bill that requires the Treasury Department to submit to 
Congress a report that lists the companies operating in the Sudanese 
natural resources industry, and requires the General Services 
Administration to report to Congress on whether the U.S. Government has 
an active contract with any of those companies.

Later today the House is expected to pass a bill that would support 
State and local divestment efforts, require companies to disclose 
Sudanese-related business activities, investigate whether the Federal 
Retirement Thrift Investment Board has invested funds in any of these 
companies operated in Sudan, and bar the U.S. Government from operating 
with any companies operating to benefit the Sudanese regime.

A few weeks ago, the Senate passed the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Enhancement Act, which increases civil and criminal 
penalties associated with violating American economic sanctions such as 
those against Sudan. I encourage our House counterparts to pass this 
bill as well.

I have introduced legislation similar to the bill the House is 
expected to pass today that would support State governments that decide 
to encourage public funds to divest from Sudan-related investments. 
That bill has strong bipartisan support, nearly a third of the Senate.

We tried to pass it, but someone in the Senate has put a hold on that 
bill.


They have decided we should not move quickly to try to divest and 
discourage genocide. I urge whatever Republican colleague on that side 
has put a hold on this bill to seriously stop and consider the impact 
of this political move. We need to make sure the House and the Senate 
are on record on a bipartisan basis, clearly, unequivocally.

I have also included in the Senate Financial Services and General 
Government Appropriations Act language requiring the administration to 
report on the effectiveness of the current sanctions regime and 
recommended steps Congress can take.

Personally, some of us have decided to divest from Sudan-related 
investments in our own portfolios as a gesture of solidarity. The 
administration has taken some important steps. In April of this year, 
at the Holocaust Museum, President Bush declared rightly that the 
United States has a moral obligation to stop the genocide in Darfur. 
Recently the President took the first step toward meeting that 
obligation by ordering the U.S. sanctions against Sudan be tightened.

The Treasury Department is adding 30 companies that are owned or 
controlled by the Government of Sudan to a list of firms that are 
barred from U.S. financial assistance. The Office of Foreign Assets 
Control within the Treasury Department, working with other agencies, 
has worked hard to tighten economic and political sanctions.

Although these are important steps, I wish the U.S. Government, the 
Congress, and the President, had taken these steps sooner. Ultimately, 
we and the private sector must do all we can to ensure the genocide in 
Darfur once and for all is brought to an end.

I am going to end today with a quote from Nobel laureate and 
Holocaust survivor Eli Weisel:




 Take sides. Neutrality helps the oppressor, never the 


 victim. Silence encourages the tormentor, never the 


 tormented.


I see on the floor my colleagues from Wisconsin and New Jersey who 
join me today in this floor effort, this message to the United Nations. 
I wish to thank Senator Menendez for his continuing interest in this 
Darfur genocide. He has carried on in the Senate a tradition started 
when I first came here by his predecessor, Senator Corzine.

I also wish to thank Senator Feingold, who is chairman of the African 
Subcommittee of Foreign Relations. He has a special interest in that 
continent and a special dedication to ending the genocide in Darfur.

I yield the floor.