# FRAUD ENFORCEMENT AND RECOVERY ACT OF 2009--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `78c9ce61475915632d7e10e8c69dada5`
`Mr. INHOFE â€” 20 April 2009`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, it was my understanding earlier that I had 
about 15 more minutes than the 30 minutes that I understand are 
allotted me now. So if there is time at the end of my main message, I 
wish to address the problem of the David Hamilton nomination. In fact, 
I will announce that I will filibuster that nomination. The EPA 
endangerment findings, the Obama gun control, and then the DHS report 
that is very damaging to our veterans.















Obama Defense Budget


First of all, the main reason I am here is to speak out about a great 
concern that we are now heading down a very dangerous road leading to 
the gutting of our military and settling for adequacy as opposed to 
supremacy. I first made my concerns known on a YouTube video that I did 
when I was in Afghanistan immediately following the announcement by the 
Obama administration. My concerns drew an interesting reaction from the 
left. Not only did they say I was wrong to say that there were proposed 
cuts to the budget, they actually said the Obama administration 
proposed to increase the budget. I must confess it is a rare day when 
liberals actually claim to support increasing our Nation's military.

MSNBC was so outraged with my video that three of their prime time 
hosts took aim at my comments from Afghanistan that very same night. 
MSNBC host Ed Schultz featured my video as part of his regular feature 
''Psycho Talk'' and called my concerns ''absolutely false'' and said I 
was joining Cheney and Giuliani.

Keith Olbermann said I should ''do the math'' and his guest, the very 
unbiased Speaker Pelosi, said my criticism of the Obama defense budget 
was simply ''desperation'' and that we are going to be spending more on 
defense than in 2009.

Not to be left out, Rachel Maddow repeated the same talking points 
and said once again the budget was actually going to increase. Then she 
brought on a guest, Eugene Robinson, an associate editor and columnist 
with the Washington Post, who went so far as to say I was making stuff 
up and lying.


Not to be outdone, CNN's Rich Sanchez said he was doing a ''fact 
check.'' He called my words ''ridiculous'' and brought on a liberal 
think tank policy wonk, whom Sanchez referred to as a ''moderate,'' to 
defend his claims. It is interesting that all of the liberal 
journalists were jumping on and assailing me but not the moderate ones.

I ask unanimous consent that at the conclusion of my remarks, this 
editorial from the Wall Street Journal be printed in the Record.