# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `78f5480f09f3ec134b5dcc546fb20997`
`Mr. KYL â€” 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I raise a point of order. Under rule XVI, 
section 1711 of the bill is legislation on an appropriations bill.

Section 1711 of the substitute amendment makes changes to the 
immigration code's bars on entry to the United States for individuals 
tied to terrorist activity or groups. Although I agree with the stated 
purpose of this provision--to allow the Hmong and other groups that do 
not pose a threat to the United States to enter this country--I object 
to the language of this provision and have introduced two amendments to 
correct that language.

Everyone agrees that groups such as the Hmong and the Montagnards, 
who fought bravely alongside U.S. forces during the Vietnam war, should 
not be barred from entering this country. If section 1711 were tailored 
to aid the Hmong and other groups that do not pose a threat to the 
United States, I would have no objection to such a legislative 
proposal.

Unfortunately, the text of section 1711 does much more than simply 
allow the Hmong to remain in this country. The provision in this bill 
would extend the waiver authority in current law to groups that are 
definitely not friends of the United States--including to members of 
groups that the Secretary of State has designated as Foreign Terrorist 
Organizations.

Current law bars, without exception, anyone who is a member or a 
representative of a terrorist organization from gaining admission to 
the United States. Section 1711 would remove this categorical bar and 
allow members of even Tier I terrorist organizations to seek a waiver 
and admission to this country.

Tier I terrorist organizations include groups such as the Al-Aqsa 
Martyrs Brigade, the group that has been responsible for the majority 
of suicide bombings in Israel in recent years. Section 1711 would 
extend waiver authority to the Armed Islamic Group and to the Salafist 
Group for Call and Combat, the two principal terrorist groups that have 
carried out a bloodthirsty campaign massacres, abductions, and rapes in 
Algeria over the last 15 years. The provision in the Senate substitute 
would extend waiver authority to Hamas, Hezbollah, and Palestinian 
Islamic Jihad, and the Senate bill would even extend waiver authority 
to al-Qaida.

I do not think that there is a single Member of this body who 
believes that any member of al-Qaida, Hamas, or Hezbollah should ever 
be considered for admission to this country. Yet the Senate bill would 
allow members or representatives of all of these groups to be 
considered for entry to the United States.

Another problem posed by section 1711 of the Senate bill is that it 
would also make it very difficult to bar entry to someone who has given 
material support to a terrorist organization. The section would 
effectively require the Department of Homeland Security to prove a 
negative--to show that an individual did not act under duress--when it 
seeks to bar someone who has given material support to terrorism from 
entering this country.

Imagine a situation, for example, where DHS learns that an Iraqi 
seeking admission to this country had helped plant improvised explosive 
devices in Iraq. Approximately 1,000 U.S. soldiers have been killed by 
IEDs since the beginning of the Iraq war. And suppose


that this hypothetical individual claimed that he acted under duress--
that some unnamed person forced him to plant IEDs. Under the Senate 
bill, DHS would have to prove that this person did not act under duress 
in order to bar him from the United States. This makes no sense. If we 
learn that someone has provided material support to terrorism, and that 
person seeks a waiver and entry to this country, at the very least, it 
is that person who should bear the burden of proving that he acted only 
under duress.

As I mentioned earlier, I have filed two amendments that are designed 
to address these problems with section 1711. I have concluded, however, 
that there is no reason at all to enact this provision on the emergency 
war supplemental. There is no reason that this measure cannot be 
enacted through regular order. To that end, I will introduce 
legislation this week that will provide relief from terrorism-related 
immigration bars to the Hmong and other groups that do not pose a 
threat to the United States.

Everyone agrees that groups such as the Hmong should not be barred 
from the United States. Moving such a bill through regular order will 
also protect the rights of the minority, and allow the full Senate to 
ensure that this legislation does not include the excesses that appear 
in section 1711. We all agree that we should help the Hmong. But I 
would venture that we would also all agree that we should not extend 
immigration waiver authority to members of Hamas and al-Qaida.