# PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE BILL VETO
## `793a3746e61603da2711d880aa431b7f`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER â€” 23 January 2008`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Thank you for asking that.

I come from a family who has served. I had my father serving in World 
War II. My uncle was a career Air Force officer in several wars. I had 
a grandfather in war and my brothers who fought, and I also had my 
husband who was in the military, and I was proud to be a military 
spouse, and now a member of the armed services; and always I believed 
that the Commander in Chief was going to be there to protect our 
troops. Always I thought it would be the Commander in Chief who would 
be a tough advocate for us all and he would be watching out and speak 
to other nations in as tough a manner as necessary to protect our 
troops. That's what I believed. That's why I'm here on the floor 
tonight.

I'm here on the floor trying to understand how the President of the 
United States has failed these prisoners of war, these men who went to 
Iraq and were seized by a hostile nation, who were tortured and then 
had to come back and go to court to receive just compensation. And when 
they won, then the President of the United States stepped in, not to 
make sure that they received what they had won, but to make sure they 
didn't receive it; and that's the part I can't understand.

The President said that Iraq needed this money, the Iraqis needed it 
to rebuild. We give $10 to $12 billion a month to the Iraqi government. 
I think that the President should take a look at how the money is being 
spent in Iraq and see and hear the stories that I have heard as a 
member of the Armed Services Committee and recognize that our money's 
being wasted over there. And yet he's protecting their assets and 
protecting them when our troops were the ones who went there.

Our troops were the ones who fought for our freedom in that first 
gulf war, and we had troops who suffered at the end of this government.

I can't understand it. And the President was so determined to do this 
that he held up the authorization bill. Now what is so important about 
that is there are a lot of programs in there. But one thing in 
particular just infuriated me.

There was a pay raise for our troops, for our troops who were in Iraq 
right now, who were in Afghanistan and who are all around the world and 
America protecting us. And the story about the pay raise is relevant, 
also.

The President says he supports the troops, but he only wanted a 3 
percent pay raise. And so when Congress voted for a 3/1/2/ percent pay 
raise, the President thought that was too much. He said a 3 percent was 
sufficient. Obviously, the President has never had to live on military 
pay, but I have and so many do today. And I know that 3/1/2/ percent 
might not seem like a lot. It certainly isn't. But they need it, and 
they deserved it, and they earned it.

So now we have a problem that today's troops are suffering at the 
hands of the President's stubbornness here, and then we have the POWs 
who are suffering because they're not allowed to collect what they 
justly earned for their suffering.

And I can't understand it, but I do know that the people of New 
Hampshire are furious also that those veterans who went there in 
complete trust and faith in this country and in the President have to 
be devastated now to know that if they were injured, if they were 
tortured abroad, that they could not be certain that the Geneva 
Conventions would be upheld. They could not be certain that the 
Commander in Chief would be there for them. They could not be certain 
that all of the guarantees that were made when they signed and stepped 
forward to service would be honored, and I think that's the real shame 
here today and the real disgrace here today that we are not standing up 
for our soldiers.

So I would say that the people in New Hampshire are insistent that 
those who suffered for our country need to be justly compensated.