# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `79c01d2694b76657e0e2e95fe1685a76`
`Mr. REYES â€” 25 February 2010`

---


Mr. REYES. Thank you, Madam Chair. I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Chair, I am proud to rise today in support of H.R. 2701, the 
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. This is an unusual 
time of the year for us to be considering this legislation. However, it 
is and remains a very important bill which addresses critical national 
security issues, and one that we ultimately need to see enacted.

As chairman of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, my 
most important job is to guide the committee in providing appropriate 
tools, resources, and authorities to aid the dedicated men and women of 
the intelligence community in keeping our Nation safe. I believe that 
H.R. 2701 does just that.

First and foremost, this bill authorizes the activities and the funds 
for the 16 agencies of the intelligence community. It is difficult to 
talk about their roles and their missions in the open, but in some ways 
it is probably one of the most important things that we do on the 
Intelligence Committee. In addition to providing authorization for 
intelligence activities, this bill takes the initial important steps to 
improve congressional oversight of that intelligence community.

I want to highlight two legislative provisions from this year's bill 
that I believe will significantly improve oversight.

When this bill was marked up in committee, we made significant 
changes to the so-called ''Gang of Eight'' procedures. As Members know, 
the President has had the statutory authority to limit briefings to the 
Gang of Eight when they involve sensitive covert actions. It was the 
sense of the committee that the Gang of Eight statutory authority had 
been overused, and that, on matters of critical importance, the 
committee as a whole should have been informed. For that reason, that 
earlier version of the bill removed the statutory authority for 
limiting briefings to the Gang of Eight.

Last July, the administration issued a statement of policy on H.R. 
2701 that included a veto threat with respect to the provisions that 
would modify the Gang of Eight notification procedures. I believe that 
some level of concern at that point was justified, and I have been 
working with the administration over the past several months to resolve 
those differences. Since July, there have already been noticeable 
improvements in the way the administration and the intelligence 
community are communicating and briefing Congress.

Accordingly, the manager's amendment I will offer includes a revised 
provision on Gang of Eight reform. I know that many Members have strong 
feelings about this issue on both sides of the aisle. The provision 
that is in the manager's amendment is intended to be a strong and 
significant step towards better oversight which still respects the 
constitutional authorities of the President. It recognizes that both 
elected branches have a role in national security.

I fully expect that once we pass this bill we will then revisit this 
issue during conference between the House and the Senate. And I am 
happy to work with Members to seek improvements at that time. Through 
this process, we will be able to find a workable solution to a problem 
that has persisted over the past several years, if not longer.

Another provision that I think is absolutely critical establishes a 
statutory Inspector General for the intelligence community. This 
provision will eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse, and it will also help 
keep a close eye on the protection of the rights of Americans.

This year's bill is truly a product of many hands. The Inspector 
General provision, which I just spoke about, in large part is due to 
the efforts of Ms. Eshoo, the chair of the Intelligence Community 
Management Subcommittee. The vice chairman of the full committee, Mr. 
Hastings, has offered an amendment to include critical provisions on 
our shared interest in promoting diversity as a mission imperative. He 
has been working at this long and hard for many, many years. Our newest 
majority member, Mr. Boren, has worked hard to develop a pilot program 
to improve language capability in African languages.

The chairman of the Technical and Tactical Subcommittee, Mr. 
Ruppersberger, has worked hard on the classified annex to make sure our 
approach to acquisitions and our most technical programs make good 
sense. He has been a pivotal part to the committee's oversight process 
in these very important areas.

The bill includes several provisions offered by Ms. Schakowsky, the 
chairwoman of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, which 
relate to


her longstanding interest in appropriately monitoring and managing 
contractors in the intelligence community.

Mr. Holt, the chairman of the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel, 
advocated for a provision addressing the videotaping of interrogations 
and another on intelligence information on the health risks faced by 
Desert Storm veterans.

Mr. Thompson of California, another subcommittee chairman, has worked 
hard on this bill as well. He pushed successfully for the inclusion of 
a provision to study the benefits paid to the families of the men and 
women of the intelligence community who have made the ultimate 
sacrifice. I am proud to support that as well.

We also received important input from the committee's minority 
members. Mr. Kline of Minnesota offered an excellent amendment, which 
we were pleased to accept, that requires the National Reconnaissance 
Organization to rewrite its charter to meet its current missions. Mr. 
Conaway's personal interest in auditable financial statements led to a 
provision in the bill that requires the intelligence community to focus 
on its internal financial management and to provide a system that 
achieves auditability.

Madam Chair, I believe that this bill will provide the resources and 
the tools that the intelligence community needs to do its important 
work in keeping our Nation safe. That includes collection and analysis 
of human intelligence, signals intelligence, and geospatial 
intelligence.



It includes funds to detect and disrupt terrorist plots, to provide 
for intelligence support to the warfighters in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
and also improves the recruitment and training of a diverse and capable 
workforce.

During my time on this committee, I've had the good fortune to be 
able to travel and to meet the brave men and women of the intelligence 
community, both uniformed and civilian, and I am continually impressed 
and in awe of the great work that they do and the great morale that 
they have. They are dedicated, professional and highly skilled 
patriots, and I'm proud to offer a bill that supports them and all that 
they do for our great Nation.

This past December, we lost seven of those brave men and women in the 
attack in Khost, Afghanistan. It is for them, and for those who carry 
on their mission, that I proudly submit this bill today.

Madam Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.