# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `79c69155a58ae522fa72cb3e7ea1fab3`
`Mr. WOLF â€” 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Speaker, we are a coequal branch of government. We do 
not work for the President or the administration; our job is to 
thoughtfully consider the issues before us, and to work with the 
President and with the administration. When we agree, it is our 
responsibility to work together for the best interests of our country; 
and where we cannot agree, however, we have an equal responsibility to 
make the case of why we disagree, and offer responsible and thoughtful 
alternatives. This resolution does not meet that test.

Some may say that is what we are doing in the House this week, 
disagreeing with the President and offering alternatives to the plan. 
This resolution fails. There is no plan offered.

Certainly the resolution before us includes a statement on which we 
all unequivocally agree: support for our brave men and women in the 
Armed Forces who are serving or who have served in Iraq.



Yet it also includes a statement of disapproval on the plan for Iraq 
offered by the President, a statement of disagreement to which, again, 
no alternative is offered. If we disagree with the President's plan, we 
should be offered reasoned, responsible alternatives. Instead of 
speaking today as Democrats or Republicans, we should come together, 
speaking as Americans who are seeking to answer the questions of how to 
move forward with success in Iraq.

Under the process today, we have only one option from the other side 
of the aisle. Is that what the American people expect from this House? 
No. The American people expect more. What is so amazing to me and in 
this Congress, you voted, this Congress voted and passed legislation 
last year that set our country on a course to find our way forward in 
Iraq. We have to look no farther than the report of the bipartisan Iraq 
Study Group to find a way forward, a new approach for Iraq, an approach 
that can bring us victory.

That is what we should be considering today. The recommendations of 
this distinguished group can bring us to a consensus and unite the 
Congress and the Nation on Iraq. I have been to Iraq three times, and 
since there, I continue to be deeply concerned.

So when I came back from my third trip, I offered this idea of an 
independent bipartisan commission we called fresh eyes on the target, 
and many Members on your side have been hailing it, yet you would not 
permit this to come up for a vote. Why would the Rules Committee shut 
down something that many of you ask for over and over? And there are 
Members on my side who don't like it, but it is the only balanced plan.

This legislation was set up, the 10 Members, bipartisan, five 
Republicans, five Democrats, Jim Baker, former Secretary of State; Lee 
Hamilton, who served here and has probably, quite frankly, forgotten 
more about this issue than any Members on your side or any Members on 
my side. A 10-0 decision, Leon Panetta, Ed Meese, whose son will serve 
with General Petraeus, they came up with this idea.

Yet the Rules Committee has shut this down not to permit a vote. They 
worked for more than 8 months supported by expert working groups, and 
senior military advisors in the areas of the economy, reconstruction, 
military, security and political development. The study's report was 
issued on December 6 and was hailed, but yet it is not permitted to 
come up for a vote.

Because of the importance of this group, I introduced a sense of 
Congress resolution in support of the recommendations. I asked the 
Rules Committee late last night to make my resolution in order to be 
considered during the debate. By doing so, I believe the House will be 
working to meet our responsibility as political leaders to seek a 
bipartisan consensus on the issue of war and peace.

But the request, not on my behalf, but on behalf of the American 
people, was turned down by the Rules Committee. Believe me, just for a 
second, maybe our side at times treated you wrong; but, believe me, you 
are getting to be a fast learner, because every time you seem to speak 
over here, the Republican side of the aisle is shut down from offering 
anything. This is the major issue of war and peace. Can you imagine if 
this were 1937 or 1938 or 1939 in the House of Parliament, and it was a 
resolution like this with Nazi Germany pouring over Europe, there would 
be some resolution, and everyone else, Churchill would have been shut 
out because he wanted to offer something constructive to make a 
difference.

Let me read from a letter penned by Jim Baker and Congressman 
Hamilton. There is no magic formula, they said, to solve the problem of 
Iraq. They basically say there are actions to take. The political 
leaders need to establish a bipartisan approach. They go on to make the 
report, the consensus report as to work that they have done. We 
recommend their report, and then they end by saying, ''Yet, U.S. 
foreign policy is doomed to failure--as is any course of action in 
Iraq--if not supported by a broad, sustained consensus.'' Then they go 
on to say how dangerous this is.

I ask you, why? Why couldn't we get a vote? Why couldn't the American 
people get a vote on something that many on your side may not like, but 
most do, and some on my side may not like, but most do, and I ask, this 
body ought to be voting on the Iraq Study Group to show the American 
people that we can be successful