# HONORING THE GARDEN CITY SCHOOL BLUE RIBBON AWARD
## `7a37d05b95d18fc8b30b1090f2bf4b53`
`Mrs. McCARTHY of New York â€” 17 September 2008`

---


Mrs. McCARTHY of New York. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
Garden City Middle School for having received the prestigious Blue 
Ribbon School Award. The Blue Ribbon Schools Program recognizes schools 
that make significant progress in closing the achievement gap or whose 
students achieve at very high levels.

Garden City Middle School succeeds in providing an atmosphere where 
students foster a desire for life long learning and are motivated to 
reach their highest potential academically, creatively, socially, 
physically and emotionally. Last year Garden City Middle School ranked 
first in Nassau County in the percentage of students passing the New 
York State Grade 8 Math Assessment and second on the New York State 
Grade 8 English Assessment. Additionally, Garden City Middle School 
students ranked first on the New York State Grade 8 English Assessment 
of students scoring at the mastery level. A supplemental aspect of 
their curriculum is to teach the students social responsibility. Last 
year Garden City Middle School raised more money for St. Jude's 
Children's Hospital than any other school in the nation while also 
participating in Toys for Tots drives, collecting food for food banks, 
and collection campaigns to support the troops in Iraq.

The future of this country depends on the hopes and dreams of its 
children, and our community, and our nation, are enhanced by the 
contributions of high achieving students like those at Garden City 
Middle School.

Madam Speaker, it is with pride and admiration I offer my thanks and 
recognition to Garden City Middle School.
