# None
## `7a58c05488680892370f5fa480b618bd`
`Mr. GRAHAM â€” 3 August 2010`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, I appreciate the kind comments of the 
Senator from Minnesota. I have enjoyed working with her on the 
committee and hope to be able to work with her on a lot of different 
topics, including confirming judges.

My view of Elena Kagan is quite simple. I found her to be a good, 
decent person; well qualified in terms of her legal background to sit 
on the Court. The people who know her the best, who worked with her, 
have nothing but good things to say about her. She is not someone a 
Republican President would have picked--she is definitely in the 
liberal camp when it comes to judging--but I think within the 
mainstream of the left wing of the Court.

The Court has two wings to it. A lot of decisions are--not a lot, 
some decisions are 5-4. But you know who the conservatives on the Court 
are and you know who the liberals are. The one thing they have in 
common is that they are highly qualified, great Americans who happen to 
view the law a bit differently in terms of philosophy. But they have 
brought honor to the Court.

Justice Ginsburg is definitely in the left wing of the Court. Justice 
Scalia is definitely in the right wing of the Court. From what I have 
been told, they have a deep personal friendship; that Justices Scalia 
and Ginsburg have become fast friends and admire each other even though 
they often cancel out each other's vote and they have some real good 
give and take in their opinions. In that regard I think they represent 
the best in judging and the best in our democracy, and that is two 
different philosophies competing on the battlefield of ideas but 
understanding that neither one of them is the enemy. They have a lot of 
respect for each other.

What brought me to the conclusion to vote for Solicitor General 
Kagan? I


believe the advise and consent clause of the Constitution had a very 
distinct purpose. Under our Constitution, article 2, it allows the 
President of the United States to appoint Supreme Court Justices and 
judges to the Federal bench in general. That is an authority and a 
privilege given to him by the Constitution. You have to earn that by 
getting elected President.

After having watched Senator McCain literally about kill himself to 
try to be President, I have a lot of admiration for those who will seek 
that office. It is very difficult to go through the process of getting 
nominated and winning the office. I daresay that Senator McCain would 
indicate it is one of the highlights of his life to be nominated by his 
party and to go out and fight for the vote of the American people.

Senator Obama was a Member of this body before being elected 
President. I can only imagine what he went through, going through the 
primary process, beating some very qualified, high-profile Democrats to 
get the nomination of his party. When it was all said and done, after 
about $1 billion and a lot of sweat and probably sleepless nights, he 
was elected by the people of the United States to be our President. I 
want to honor elections.

My job, as I see it--and I am just speaking for me--each Senator has 
to determine what they believe the advise and consent clause requires. 
From my point of view I will tell you what I think my job is in this 
process. No. 1, it is not to be a rubberstamp. Why would you even have 
the Senate involved if the President could pick whomever he or she 
chose? So there is a collaboration that goes on here. There is a check 
and balance in the Constitution where we have to advise and consent. So 
I do not expect myself or any other Senator to feel once the election 
is over, you have to vote for whomever they pick. You do not. There may 
be a time when I vote ''no'' to a President Obama nominee.

But my view of things is sort of defined by the Federalist Paper No. 
76, Alexander Hamilton, who was one of our great minds of this 
country's history. He said, ''The Senate should have special and strong 
reasons for denial of confirmation.''

I think his comment to us is that, yes, you can say no, but you need 
to have a special and strong reason because the Constitution confers 
upon the President the right to pick. What would those strong and 
special reasons be? Whatever you want it to be. That is the fact of 
politics. Those strong and special reasons can literally be whatever 
you want it to be as a Senator. But here is what Alexander Hamilton had 
in mind as to strong and special reasons. He continued:




 To what purpose, then, require the cooperation of the 


 Senate? I answer, that the necessity of their concurrence 


 would have a powerful, though, in general, a silent 


 operation.


I think that powerful and silent operation is meant to be a firm but 
not overly political check and balance; not a continuation of the 
campaign. Because the campaign is a loud experience. It is 50 plus 1, 
rah-rah-rah, build yourself up, tear your opponent down. So when 
Alexander Hamilton indicated to the Senate his view of the advise and 
consent clause, that it would be powerful, though in general a silent 
operation, I think he is telling us: The campaign is over. Now is the 
time to govern. So when this nominee comes your way from the person the 
Constitution confers the ability to pick and choose, you should have in 
mind a powerful but silent operation.

''It would be an excellent check upon a spirit of favoritism. . . .'' 
I think that is pretty self-evident, that one of the things we do not 
want to have with our judiciary is it becomes an award or prize for 
somebody who helped in the campaign, picking somebody who is close to 
you personally, related to you, so that the job of Federal judge 
becomes sort of political patronage. The Senate could be a good check 
and balance for that. I think that is one of the reasons we are 
involved in the process, to make sure that once the election is over, 
the President himself does not continue the campaign. The campaign is 
over and we have a silent operation in terms of how we deliver our 
advice and consent. So he is telling the President through the Senate 
that once the campaign is over, you should not pick someone who will 
help you politically or return a favor; you should pick someone who 
will be a good judge.

It ''would tend greatly to prevent the appointment of unfit 
characters from State prejudice.'' That is another view that Alexander 
Hamilton had, as to how the Senate should use its advise and consent 
duties, to make sure that unfit characters do not go on the Court. I 
can imagine that has probably been used in the past.

''From family connection,'' that one is obviously self-evident. You 
don't want to pick someone from your family unless there is a good 
reason to do so. ''[F]rom personal attachment or from a view to 
popularity.''

When I add up all these things, I am looking at the necessity of 
their concurrence with a: ''powerful, though, in general, silent 
operation. It would be an excellent check upon the spirit of favoritism 
. . . to prevent the appointment of unfit characters . . . from family 
connection, from personal attachment, or from a view to popularity.''

In other words, we are trying to make sure the President, he or she, 
picks a good, qualified judge, not some unfit character, some person 
tied to him or her personally, not someone who would be a popular 
choice but would be a lousy judge.

When I apply that standard to Elena Kagan, I cannot find anything 
about her that makes her an unfit character to me. Frankly, what I know 
about her from listening to her for a couple of days and having people 
tell me about her is I think she is a very fine person with stellar 
character.

The letter that moved me the most about Elena Kagan the person, I 
wish to share with the Senate and read, if I may. This comes from 
Miguel Estrada. For those of you who may not remember, Miguel Estrada 
was chosen by President Bush to be on the court of appeals. For a 
variety of reasons--there is no use retrying the past--he never got a 
vote by the Senate. He never got out of committee. All I can say from 
my point of view is, it was one of the great mistakes. I am sure there 
have been times when Republicans have done the same thing or something 
like it to a well-qualified Democratic selection. But I happened to be 
here when Miguel Estrada was chosen by President Bush. So he had a very 
unpleasant experience when it came to getting confirmed as a judge. But 
here is what he wrote about Elena Kagan, a Republican conservative 
lawyer chosen by President Bush to be on the court of appeals, writing 
for Elena Kagan:




 I write in support of Elena Kagan's confirmation as an 


 Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. 


 I have known Elena for 27 years. We met as first year law 


 students at Harvard, where we were assigned seats next to 


 each other for our classes. We were later colleagues as 


 editors of the Law Review and as law clerks to different 


 Supreme Court Justices; and we have been friends since.



 Elena possesses a formidable intellect, an exemplary 


 temperament, and a rare ability to disagree with others 


 without being disagreeable. She is calm under fire and mature 


 and deliberate in her judgments. Elena would also bring to 


 the Court a wealth of experience at the highest level of our 


 Government and of academia, including teaching at the 


 University of Chicago, serving as the Dean of the Harvard Law 


 School and experience at the White House and as the current 


 Solicitor General of the United States. If such a person, who 


 has demonstrated great intellect, high accomplishments and an 


 upright life, is not easily confirmable, I fear we will have 


 reached a point where no capable person will readily accept a 


 nomination for judicial service.



 I appreciate that considerations of this type are 


 frequently extolled but rarely honored by one side or the 


 other when the opposing party holds the White House. I was 


 dismayed to watch the confirmation hearings for then-Judge 


 Alito, at the time one of our most distinguished appellate 


 judges, and find that they range from the--


Well, I am not going to read it all.



 . . . one could readily identify the members of the current 


 Senate majority, including several who serve on the Judiciary 


 Committee [and their partisan views].



 Lest my endorsement of Elena's nomination erode the support 


 she would see from her own party, I should make it clear that 


 I believe her views on the subjects that are relevant to her 


 pending nomination--including the scope of judicial role, 


 interpretive approaches to the procedure and substantive law, 


 and the balance of powers among the various institutions of 


 government--are as firmly center-left as my own are center-


 right. If Elena is confirmed, I would expect her rulings to 


 fall well within the mainstream of current legal thought, 


 although on




 the side of what is popularly conceived as ''progressive.'' 


 This should come as a surprise to exactly no one: One of the 


 prerogatives of the President under our Constitution is to 


 nominate high federal officers, including judges, who share 


 his (or her) governing philosophies. As has often been said, 


 though rarely by Senators whose party did not control the 


 White House at the time, elections have consequences.



 Elena Kagan is an impeccably qualified nominee. Like Louis 


 Brandeis, Felix Frankfurter, Robert Jackson, Byron White, 


 Lewis Powell and William Rehnquist--none of whom arrived at 


 the Court with prior judicial service--she could become one 


 of our great Justices. I strongly urge you to confirm her 


 nomination without delay.


I think that says a lot of Elena Kagan. I think it says a lot about 
Miguel Estrada. She wrote a letter basically--I asked her to--to tell 
me what she thought about Miguel Estrada. I will read that in a minute. 
But at the end of the day, those of us in the Senate have to understand 
that every branch of government includes human beings and there is a 
rule that stood the test of time. I didn't make this one up. It was 
somebody far wiser than I am, somebody far more gifted than I ever hope 
to be, somebody I put a lot of trust in.

It is called the Golden Rule. ''Do unto others as you would have them 
do unto you.'' That is probably one of the most powerful statements 
ever made. It is divine in its orientation, and it is probably 
something that would serve us all well if we thought about it at 
moments such as this.

I am going to vote for Elena Kagan because I believe constitutionally 
she meets the test the Framers envisioned for someone to serve on the 
Court. I don't think the Framers ever envisioned Lindsey Graham from 
South Carolina voting no because President Obama picked someone who is 
clearly different than I would have chosen. Because if that were the 
case, the campaign never ended. It would undercut the President's 
ability to pick someone of like philosophy. My job is to make sure the 
person he chose is qualified, of fit character, not chosen for 
favoritism or close connection but chosen based on merit.

I have no problem with Elena Kagan as a person. I have no problem 
with her academic background. I have no problem with her experience as 
a lawyer. Even though she has worked for Justices whom I would not have 
ruled like, even though she has taken up political causes I oppose, 
that is part of democracy.

Her time as Solicitor General, where she represents the United States 
before the Supreme Court, was reassuring to me. She has had frontline 
experience in the war on terror. She has argued before the Supreme 
Court that terrorist suspects should be viewed under the law of war. 
She supports the idea that someone who joins al-Qaida has not committed 
a crime. They have taken up arms against the United States, and they 
can be held indefinitely without trial if, under proper procedures, 
they have been found to be part of the enemy force. She understands 
detainees held at Bagram Airfield in Afghanistan should not be subject 
to judicial review in the United States because they are prisoners of 
war in an active theater of combat. If she gets on the Court--and I am 
certain she will--she will be able to bring to the Court some 
frontline, real-world experience in the war on terror. She has had an 
opportunity to represent the United States before the Supreme Court, 
arguing that this Nation is at war, and the people who attacked us on 
9/11 and who continue to join al-Qaida are not some common criminals 
but people subject to the law of armed conflict. Her testimony when she 
was confirmed as Solicitor General was reassuring to me that she 
understood that very important concept.

How she rules, I don't know. I expect she will be more similar to 
Justice Stevens in the way she decides cases. The person she is 
replacing is one of the giants of the Court from the progressive side. 
I expect she will follow his lead most of the time. I do believe she is 
an independent-minded person. When it comes to war on terror issues, 
she will be a valuable member of the Court and may provide a 
perspective other judges would not possess. That is my hope.

I don't vote for her expecting her to do anything other than what she 
thinks is right, ruling with the Court most of the time in a way a 
Republican nominee would not have ruled. It gets back to my point of a 
minute ago. If I can't vote for her, then how can I ask someone on the 
other side to vote for that conservative lawyer, maybe judge, who has 
lived their life on the conservative side of the aisle, fighting for 
conservative causes, fighting for the pro-life movement, standing for 
the conservative causes I believe in, a strong advocate of a second 
amendment right for every American? That day will come. I hope sooner. 
But one day that day will come. What I hope we can do from this 
experience is remember that when that day does come, the Constitution 
has not changed at all. The only thing changed was the American people 
chose a conservative Republican President. I ask my colleagues to honor 
that choice, when that conservative President, whoever he or she may 
be, picks someone whom my colleagues on the other side would not have 
chosen. But that has been the way it has been for a couple hundred 
years now.

Justice Ginsburg, the ACLU general counsel, got 96 votes. Justice 
Scalia got 96 or 97 votes. Senator Thurmond, my predecessor, voted for 
Justice Ginsburg. There is no way on God's green Earth Strom Thurmond 
would have voted for Justice Ginsburg if he believed his job was to 
pick the nominee. There is no way many of my colleagues on the other 
side would have ever voted for Justice Scalia if they thought it was 
their job or they had the ability to make a selection in line with 
their philosophy. No one could have been more polar opposite than 
Ginsburg and Scalia. But not that long ago, in the 1990s, this body, 
without a whole lot of fussing and fighting, was able to put on the 
Court two people who could not be more different but chose to be good 
friends.

The history of confirming nominees to the Supreme Court is being 
lost. Madam President, 73 of the 123 Justices who served on the Supreme 
Court were confirmed without even having a rollcall vote. Something is 
going on. It is on the left, and it is on the right. I hope this body 
will understand one thing: The judiciary is the most fragile branch of 
government. They can't go on cable TV and argue with us as to why they 
are qualified. They cannot send out mailings advocating their 
positions. They have no army. All they have is the force of the 
Constitution, the respect of the other branches and, hopefully, the 
support of the American people.

Having gone to Iraq and Afghanistan many times, the one thing I can 
tell my colleagues that is missing in most countries that are having 
difficult times is the rule of law. What is it? To me, the rule of law 
is a simple but powerful concept. If you ever find yourself in a 
courtroom or before a magistrate or a judge, you will be judged based 
not on what tribe you came from. You will be judged based on what you 
did, not who you are.

The one thing we don't want to lose in this country is an independent 
judiciary. We are putting the men and women who are willing to serve in 
these jobs sometimes through hell. Judge Alito was poorly treated. I am 
very proud of what Senator Sessions was able to do as ranking member. 
We had a good, spirited contest with Sotomayor and Kagan. I thought the 
minority performed their role in an admirable fashion. I appreciate 
what Senator Leahy did working with Senator Sessions. I thought these 
two hearings were conducted in the best traditions of the Senate.

The votes will be in soon. She is going to get a handful of votes on 
our side. I have chosen to be one of those handful. From a conservative 
point of view, there are 100 things one can find at fault in terms of 
philosophy and judicial viewpoint with Elena Kagan. I have chosen not 
to go down that road. I have chosen to go down a different path, a path 
that was cleared and marked for me long before I got here, a path that 
has a very strong lineage, a path that I believe leads back to the 
Constitution, where the advice and consent clause is used in a way not 
to extend the election that is now over but as a reasonable, powerful 
but silent check on a President who chose a judge for all the wrong 
reasons. Choosing a liberal lawyer from a President who campaigned and 
governs from the left is not a wrong reason. Choosing a conservative 
lawyer or judge once you campaign for the job running right of center, 
in my view, is not the wrong


reason. The wrong reason would be if the person you chose was not 
worthy of the job, did not have the background or the moral character 
to administer justice. I cannot find fault with Elena Kagan using that 
standard.

I will vote for her. I will say to anybody in South Carolina and 
throughout the country who is listening: She is not someone I would 
have chosen, but it is not my job to choose. It is President's Obama's 
job. He earned that right. I have no problem with Elena Kagan as a 
person. I think she will do a good job, consistent with her judicial 
philosophy. I hope and pray that the body over time will get back to 
the way we used to do business. If we don't watch it, we are going to 
wake one day, and we will politicize the judiciary to the point that 
good men and women, such as Sam Alito, Justice Roberts, and Elena 
Kagan, will not want to come before this body and be a judge. If that 
ever happened, it would be a great loss to this country.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.