# RETURN OF SENATOR TIM JOHNSON
## `7ad8e6ed0885397ef2077261507fdf63`
`Mr. REID â€” 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, before my Republican colleagues leave the 
floor, I want to repeat what I said this morning when the Senate 
opened--the only person here was Senator McConnell--and that is what 
the Republicans have done during the illness of Senator Johnson has 
been exemplary. There have been occasions when, for partisan advantage, 
the minority could have taken advantage of the majority as a result of 
Tim being incapacitated. That was never done, even though there were 
opportunities to do that. As I said this morning, I personally 
appreciate that. I know the Johnson family does. More importantly, Mr. 
President, the American people do. This is the Senate, and I will 
always remember during the past 8 months as we have waited for Tim to 
return how--I repeat--the Republicans never once tried to take 
advantage of his illness. Thank you very much.

(Applause.)

Mr. President, Tim Johnson is a fourth generation South Dakotan. I 
want to underline the fact that John Thune and Tim Johnson remind me of 
Harry Reid and John Ensign, because we too had a very difficult race 
for the Senate, and it ended up very similar to the Thune-Johnson race. 
But we have set those differences aside and now are friends. Above all, 
I say to my friend John Thune, I admire and appreciate what you have 
done in helping Tim in his absence and for being the person who would 
not allow anything to be done that would in any way harm Tim Johnson on 
a partisan basis. Thank you very much, John.

I have learned a lot about Tim Johnson in the past 8 months. I know 
he went to school at the University of South Dakota, that it is there 
he met Barbara, his wife. It is in a town called Vermillion that he 
started his law practice, and it is there that he saw success in the 
legal field. He served 4 years, starting in 1982, in the House of 
Representatives in the State of South Dakota. He has received many 
awards: Outstanding Citizen of the State of South Dakota, first 
recipient of the Billy Sutton Award for legislative achievement. He was 
elected to the House in 1986. During that year he was responsible for 
passing more legislation than any of the other 50 first-term Members.

He has now been in the Senate doing outstanding work. I noticed on 
his resume, of course, he listed the Appropriations Committee, the 
Budget Committee, the Banking Committee, the Energy Committee, the 
Indian Affairs Committee, but he left off the Ethics Committee. He was 
chosen on that committee to be the chair of that committee, because he 
is the example of an ethical, honest legislator and person.

Tim and Barbara still have their home in Vermilion, but I have gotten 
to know that family so well. Brooks served and is serving in the U.S. 
Army, having been a combat veteran in Bosnia, Kosovo, Afghanistan, and 
Iraq. He is now an Army recruiter. Brendan is a lawyer and has a law 
practice and is doing excellent work. Kelsey and I--during her father's 
illness--spent lots of time together, especially waiting for her 
brothers to come. It took a couple of days for them to get here from 
around the country, as air travel out of South Dakota is not that easy.

As you proceed through life, you find people that you have such 
admiration for. Of course, we all admire Tim. But there is a person in 
this Chamber--and I know the Senate rules. We are not to refer to 
people in this Chamber, but I hope people will forgive me today in 
recognizing someone I will never forget, and that is his loving wife 
Barbara.

(Applause, Senators rising.)

I think Barbara and I will never forget--Tim was unconscious at the 
time--the first night Tim got sick. The reason I mention this is there 
was a doctor--and I don't want to in any way embarrass Tim or his 
family, but I think the man deserves recognition. I was asked to be 
with Barbara, and I was happy to be there with the children coming that 
first terrible afternoon. Things weren't going well. Barbara recognized 
it at first that he wasn't doing well. The doctor came and said, We are 
going to have to relieve the pressure. I am going to have to go into 
his skull. I said to this doctor, How many times have you done that? He 
said, Innumerable times. He was not an old man, but he was surrounded 
by old neurologists and neurosurgeons.

He came back a while later, an hour and a half, maybe, and he said, I 
am going to have to do an angiogram; I don't know what is going on in 
his brain. So they put something in to look at his brain. I said, How 
many times have you done that? He said over a thousand times. Then he 
comes back about an hour and a half or 2 hours later and tells us they 
are going to have to operate on Tim. It is going to take a long time, 
probably about 7 hours. After he worked all of this time, I said to 
him, Who is going to do this, because he had to be getting tired by 
then. He looked at Barbara with these piercing eyes, and said, I am 
going to do it. That is what I do. He said, I am not only a 
neurosurgeon, I have a subspecialty in the blood supply to the brain. 
He walked out of that room, and we had so much confidence in his 
ability that we felt Tim was going to make it. That man's name is Dr. 
Vivek Deshmukh. I haven't had the opportunity--I wanted to make sure 
Tim came back here--but some day I am going to be able to express to 
him on a personal basis how he handled this man's illness. Tim wasn't 
there, only in spirit, but this doctor deserves recognition, and I hope 
that is what I do with my little speech here today.


Amidst the daily scuffles that take place here in the Senate, we have 
the press, but many Americans may not realize we are a family. We 
sometimes joke about it, but we are, and this proves it. Sometimes 
people say this Senate family is dysfunctional, and maybe sometimes it 
is. But despite our quarrels on policy and politics, the 100 men and 
women who serve in this Chamber have the deepest respect and admiration 
for each other. We care about each other's health, families, and all 
the things that go on outside the walls of this Capitol building. I 
have dear friends, and we all do in this Chamber, but my admiration and 
respect for Tim Johnson is difficult to calculate.

When he fell ill in December of last year, we were all touched by 
this unfortunate incident. But as we look at what happened, we have 
heard this overused term: Maybe it was a blessing in disguise, because 
Tim Johnson was taken immediately to George Washington Hospital where 
they have a team of physicians as good as any place in the world to 
take care of his injury--maybe not of other injuries, not other 
illnesses, but for this one it is as good as any place in the country. 
Had it happened the next day, he would have been on an airplane going 
to South Dakota. Had it happened the next day, he would have been on an 
Indian reservation in South Dakota. So maybe, maybe his misfortune was 
a blessing. Maybe it was a blessing.

We all prayed for him. We all hoped for his recovery. We couldn't 
watch his recovery because he was away from us most of the time. We all 
prayed for his recovery with hope for his strength. Tim's wonderful 
wife Barbara, whom I have already mentioned, said last month:




 I have learned a lot about Tim Johnson during the last 


 months. I have learned that he is extremely determined. How 


 he has gotten through this and maintained an even balance I 


 will never understand. His sense of humor and just the: OK, I 


 know what I have to do, I am going to go ahead and do it, and 


 he does it.


So these past months, with humor and determination that Barbara 
mentioned, we all in the Senate now know what she is talking about.

Tim, I am so glad you are back. I am so happy that your mind is 100 
percent. We have all been told your speech shortly will be 100 percent, 
and you should know it is 95 percent right now. We throw words around 
like we are happy to have you back, but I have to say in front of the 
whole world, Tim, we love you. I love you.

(Applause, Senators rising.)