# MILITARY SUCCESS IN IRAQ COMMEMORATION ACT OF 2007
## `7b3203ce8893cc06abdedf252c89167b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 31 October 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today I introduced 
legislation, with the support of a number of my colleagues, entitled 
the ''Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 2007.'' This 
legislation is borne from my deeply held belief that we must commend 
our military for their exemplary performance and success in Iraq. This 
legislation recognizes the extraordinary performance of the Armed 
Forces in achieving the military objectives of the United States in 
Iraq, encourages the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the 
people of the United States to observe a national day of celebration 
commemorating the military success of American troops in Iraq, and 
provides other affirmative and tangible expressions of appreciation 
from a grateful Nation to all veterans of the war in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, as lawmakers continue to debate U.S. policy in Iraq, our 
heroic young men and women continue to willingly sacrifice life and 
limb on the battlefield. Our troops in Iraq


did everything we asked them to do. We sent them overseas to fight an 
army; they are now caught in the midst of an insurgent civil war and 
continuing political upheaval. The United States will not and should 
not permanently prop up the Iraqi government and military. U.S. 
military involvement in Iraq will come to an end, and, when U.S. forces 
leave, the responsibility for securing their nation will fall to Iraqis 
themselves. However, whether or not my colleagues agree that the time 
has come to withdraw our American forces from Iraq, I believe that all 
of us in Congress should be of one accord that our troops deserve our 
sincere thanks and congratulations.

I very strongly believe that our Nation has a moral obligation to 
ensure that our veterans are treated with the respect and dignity that 
they deserve. One reason we are the greatest Nation in the world is 
because of the brave young men and women fighting for us in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. They deserve honor, they deserve dignity, and they deserve 
to know that a grateful Nation cares about them.

The legislation that I introduced today, the Military Success in Iraq 
Commemoration Act of 2007, pays fitting tribute to the valor, devotion, 
and heroism of those who fought in Iraq. First, this legislation 
provides an express acknowledgment by the Congress that the objectives 
for which the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) resolution 
of 2002 authorized the use of force in Iraq were achieved by the Armed 
Forces of the United States, which performed magnificently in battle. 
It specifically recounts several notable achievements of the Armed 
Forces in Operation Iraqi Freedom.

In addition, this legislation authorizes the President to issue a 
proclamation calling upon the American people to observe a national day 
of celebration commemorating the Armed Forces' military success in 
Iraq. This will help ensure that the Iraq War does not suffer the fate 
of other open-ended engagements like the Korean War, which is often 
called the ''Forgotten War.'' The soldiers who have served valiantly in 
Iraq deserve to be recognized and lauded when they return home.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation also authorizes funds to be 
appropriated and awarded by the Secretary of Defense to State and local 
governments to assist in defraying the costs of conducting suitable 
''Success in Iraq'' homecoming and commemoration activities and in 
creating appropriate memorials honoring those who lost their lives in 
the war. Many of the casualties in the Iraq War come from small towns 
and villages in rural or economically depressed areas. The local 
governments are already facing substantial fiscal pressures and need 
help coming up with the necessary funds.

Finally, my legislation creates a program and authorizes funds to be 
appropriated pursuant to which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
award to each veteran of Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom 
a grant of $5,000 to facilitate the transition to civilian life. We 
don't want veterans to end up homeless or unemployed or unable to take 
their kids on a vacation or start a business. This $5,000 bonus is but 
a small token of the affection the people of the United States have for 
those who risked their lives so that we may continue to live in 
freedom.

Mr. Speaker, outside my office there is a poster-board with the names 
and faces of those heroes from Houston, Texas who have lost their lives 
wearing the uniform of our country. To date, the U.S. Department of 
Defense has confirmed 3838 casualties in Iraq. It is humbling to 
recognize how lucky we are to live in a Nation where so many brave 
young men and women volunteer knowing they may be called upon to make 
the ultimate sacrifice so that their countrymen can enjoy the blessings 
of liberty. The intent of my legislation is to pay fitting tribute to 
these great men and women and to let them know they will not be 
forgotten.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to urge all of my colleagues to join me in 
recognizing the efforts of our brave men and women in uniform and to 
ensure that they can successfully transition to civilian with dignity. 
I urge my colleagues to cosponsor this important legislation.
