# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `7b95589146c9fccab7078c5be9998911`
`Mr. SESTAK â€” 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, as someone who wore the cloth of this Nation for 31 
years, few things are as important to me as our obligation to support 
those who fought for our country. Our men and women in uniform serve 
selflessly on our behalf, and it is our foremost duty in Congress to do 
everything in our power to ensure that they have the care and the 
treatment they deserve, as they are, and they will remain, our most 
important recruiters in our volunteer Armed Forces of the future. So it 
matters how we treat them, as they will be the ones to encourage or 
discourage their sons and daughters, their loved ones and friends, to 
become or not to become part of what they once belonged to.

With that in mind, recent reports about the conditions at Walter Reed 
were quite sobering to who we believe we are. I am as, if I am not 
more, responsible as anyone. I should have known better and looked more 
because of my 31 years of service.

But the Armed Services Committee has now looked closely at this issue 
and taken a significant step forward in reporting H.R. 1538 to the 
House. This is a bill that will address concerns regarding the adequacy 
of the treatment received by our servicemembers returning home from 
Iraq.

While we are all familiar with the images of soldiers who have 
returned home maimed as a result of an IED, it is another range of 
medical challenges that are increasingly being seen as a signature 
disability of the war in Iraq, mental health disorders and the 
invisible psychological trauma of post-traumatic stress disorder.

According to a Pentagon study released last year, 35 percent of Iraqi 
war veterans received mental health care during the first year at home. 
Twelve percent were diagnosed with a mental health ailment.

Left untreated, the more recognizable symptoms of PTSD, including 
nightmares or flashbacks, can ultimately lead to other problems, 
including drug and alcohol abuse.

At a time when science has shown that mental health and physical 
health are inseparable, we cannot overlook the integral role that 
mental health care plays in the proper medical care of our 
servicemembers and veterans.

This past Sunday, I attended an event hosted by the Military Order of 
the Purple Heart for the VA Medical Center in Coatesville, 
Pennsylvania, and spoke to several of those who work with and treat 
veterans with PTSD. They emphasized to me their concerns about the 
level of resources, attention, and the scope of care available to those 
who need mental health services.

This is an issue we cannot simply ignore because the challenges of 
mental illness are interwoven with the other challenges that we are 
confronted with in every corner of our society. And that is why I was 
honored that Representative Kennedy held with me a forum in my district 
on mental health and substance abuse last month, where,


among other things, Congressman Kennedy spoke of the importance of 
properly addressing the needs of veterans and servicemembers.

As a Nation, we will never be fully healthy, never fully productive, 
until we eliminate all barriers to good mental health care for all our 
citizens, and especially those who have put themselves in harm's way to 
serve our country.

This amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to develop a plan to 
reduce the likelihood that personnel in combat will develop post-
traumatic stress disorder or other stress-related psychopathologies, 
what we might call psychological Kevlar.

Prevention, how nice. No, how necessary. It is what we do in the 
military. Successful generals win. Then they go to war.

This is what we must do to ensure that our soldiers are properly 
prepared, not just physically with the right Kevlar but, also, thanks 
to the knowledge developed through the peer-reviewed research called 
for in this amendment, with the proper psychological Kevlar. We must 
treat both physical and mental care of our troops the same.

I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.

I reserve the balance of my time.