# CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 21, CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE  BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `7bcb7414fab7386a219860c4b31bbb69`
`Mr. BOEHNER â€” 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Mr. Speaker and my colleagues, here we go again, a 
higher spending, higher taxes, and people don't think there is a 
difference between the two major political parties. One only has to 
look at what's happened so far this year. We have the continuing 
resolution that was passed in February, there was $6 billion worth of 
excess spending in it.

Now we have got an emergency supplemental to fund our troops in 
Afghanistan and Iraq that has another $22 billion worth of excess 
spending in it. If you look at the discretionary spending levels in 
this budget for this next fiscal year, we have another $22 billion 
worth of additional spending that's outlined.

Now if that's not bad enough, we are only 4/1/2/ months into this 
calendar year, and my friends across the aisle have authorized an 
additional $62.5 billion of additional spending. How much spending and 
how many taxes do we want to impose on the American people?

We all know that the tax cuts of 2001 and the tax cuts of 2003 have 
led us to one of the most robust economies that we have seen in our 
history. Why? Because we lowered tax rates, we gave people reasons to 
invest in our economy. Jobs were created, 5 million new jobs were 
created, more people were earning money, raising their families, paying 
their bills, and, guess what else they are doing? They are also paying 
more in taxes.



That is why revenues to the Federal Government over the last 3 years 
have increased at over 12 percent per year. They are likely to do the 
same again this year if we don't impose upon this economy the largest 
tax increase in American history. It is coming. There is $200 billion 
worth of tax increases needed to fill this hole. There is this reserve 
fund, all these promises: If we can raise taxes somewhere, we will give 
you this extra spending. And so we are going to see the largest tax 
increase in our Nation's history once again.

I was listening to this debate earlier in my office and I began to 
ask myself, what is the essence of this? Let me go back to the 1970s.

I grew up in a household with 11 brothers and sisters; my dad owned a 
bar, and we were Democrats, all of us. And I remember starting a new 
business in 1975; I remember paying taxes. I remember not owing many 
taxes because I was starting a new business. But in 1978, as my small 
business was beginning to grow, the top tax rate in our country was 70 
percent. That means 70 cents out of every dollar over that minimum, 
which was about $75,000, 70 cents of every dollar I got to give to the 
Federal Government. That is when I began to realize that maybe I wasn't 
a Democrat any longer.

Here I was trying to grow a small business; I was a subchapter S, so 
everything that my business made, I had to pay taxes on personally. 
That meant I could only leave 30 cents of every dollar in my business 
to help make it grow. And even under those tax rates that were 
suffocating, I was able to succeed.

But let's think about the last 25 years. When Ronald Reagan got 
elected in 1980, in 1981 in a bipartisan way we started a process of 
lowering tax rates. Over the last 25 years, by and large we have 
lowered tax rates dozens of times, only a couple of bumps, a couple 
increases along the way. The result of all of that over the last 25 
years has been a growing economy. Better jobs in America, more jobs in 
America, and more revenues to the Federal Government. It is a 
prescription that has worked.

Look again at the 2003 and the 2001 tax cuts. We reduced tax rates, 
and the result was more investment, more jobs, and more revenue to the 
Federal Government.

Now, at some point there is a point of diminishing returns, but I 
will suggest to all of you that we are nowhere close to it yet.

Ladies and gentlemen, I became a Republican and I came to Congress 
because I thought that we paid too much in taxes and that government 
was too big. The heart and core of who I am and why I am here is to 
fight for a smaller, less costly, more accountable government here in 
Washington, D.C. This budget represents every reason that I decided to 
become a Republican, and every reason I decided to come to Washington 
and to do something about it.

The big difference is simple right here. My friends across the aisle 
believe that government knows best what to do with the American 
people's money. More of my colleagues on my side believe that the money 
that the American people earn is theirs, and that they can make better 
decisions on behalf of themselves and their family and their future if 
we allow them to keep more of the hard-earned money that they make.

I can't just sit back and be quiet about higher taxes and higher 
spending. This is the largest tax increase in American history. This 
will in fact disinvest money from our economy, will put people out of 
work, and put us on a path to higher deficits.

And if the largest tax increase in American history isn't the saddest 
part of this bill, I will tell you what it is: No entitlement reform.

There is an economic tsunami coming at us; it is Social Security, it 
is Medicare, and it is Medicaid. And while Republicans over the last 
years have made several attempts and made some changes, and I would 
argue not nearly as many changes as we should have, there is no 
entitlement reform in this bill. That means that the amount of debt 
that will build up over the next 5 years, as outlined in this budget, 
will far surpass the debt that accumulated over the last 5 years.

You all know what is happening. There is not a Member in this Chamber 
that doesn't understand that if we don't deal with entitlement our kids 
and our grandkids can never afford the benefits that we have promised 
ourselves. We can look the other way, we can act like it doesn't exist, 
but we have made promises to ourselves as baby boomers that our kids 
and grandkids can't afford. And yet, we see the tsunami coming at us, 
we can measure it; we can measure the speed and the size of it, and yet 
we do nothing about it.

My colleagues, this is not the direction that I believe we should go 
in. I would ask all my colleagues to stand up and do the right thing 
and to say ''no'' to this budget resolution.