# THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `7be94e6b1cae4bc5bb537b8c4edf7cf8`
`Mr. KUCINICH â€” 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Congresswoman Waters and 
all of the members of the Out of Iraq Caucus for keeping the awareness 
in this Congress on the need for America to take a new direction in the 
world because we are not just speaking about opposition to a war which 
should be opposed as illegal, but we are talking about the need for 
America to take a new role in the world, one where our country does not 
engage in preemption or unilateralism or first strike, one where 
America cooperates with the world community on matters of international 
security.

Remember, before 9/11, the felicity that America was held with in so 
many parts of the world. Remember, right after 9/11, how the world 
community opened its heart to the United States.

But over at the White House, just off the Oval Office, at a meeting 
of the National Security Council, Donald Rumsfeld and people in the 
administration were plotting the attack on Iraq the day after 9/11.

Yesterday the President mentioned 9/11 again. How many times does he 
have to mention 9/11 when he talks about Iraq? Why does he keep 
mentioning 9/11 when he talks about Iraq? Iraq had nothing to do with 
9/11. This is the big lie. And it is this big lie that the whole policy 
is based on. The Bible says, that which is crooked cannot be made 
straight. That becomes prophecy when you are talking about Iraq because 
everything about what the President is doing in Iraq is crooked.

Let us look at his speech last night. Why did he spend so much time 
talking about Iran? Let us think about this. We know that in the last 
year, this administration has taken steps to try to move within the 
soft circumference of war against Iran. Our Air Force selecting bombing 
targets, moving in place 24 bunker busters with nuclear tips into the 
region. Last night talking about moving an aircraft carrier into the 
region, talking about Patriot missiles into the region, rattling sabers 
for war. He appears to be setting the stage for a wider war in the 
region. He has blamed Iran for attacks on America. He is saying that he 
is going to disrupt Iran. He is going to add this aircraft carrier. 
Isn't one war enough for this President? Isn't one misguided war enough 
for this President?

You know, it is time that the media and the Congress, as Mr. Conyers 
pointed out, started to pay attention to what this President is saying 
and to what he does. It is imperative that Congress exercise its 
constitutional responsibility. And I think we are finally starting to 
see that. I think we are seeing people on both sides of the aisle 
realizing that there is a threat to our very democracy here; that our 
country is in peril by a Commander in Chief who has run amuck; who is 
without control; who stands by while Lebanon is basically annihilated 
south of the Litani River and actually, we found out later, was 
encouraging it; who is letting a civil war grow and fester in Iraq 
because he is going to send more troops and pour them into it. Or, 
Members of Congress, is the talk about a 21,000 troop increase in Iraq 
for the purposes of dealing with problems in Baghdad? Is that just a 
pretext? Since very few things are on the level with this 
administration, will some of those troops instead be sent to the border 
with Iran to provoke a conflict?


These are questions we have to be asking because nothing this 
administration has said has been the truth. They don't have the 
capacity to tell a straight story to the American people, and they have 
spun the people of this country so much that people have become 
disoriented, but they are finally waking up, and they woke up in 
November. You want to talk about a surge? There was a surge in 
November. There was a surge to the voting booth, and that surge 
accomplished a new Congress. And the issue was Iraq, and our leadership 
told us that before the election. Three issues, they said, will guide 
this election: Iraq, Iraq, Iraq. And so was created a new Congress. And 
so it is imperative that Congress step up to its obligation.

We have to say that we are not going to give this President any more 
money for the war, but we have to use the money that is in the pipeline 
right now to bring the troops home and, Mr. Speaker, to set in motion a 
process, because we understand; we don't want to abandon the people of 
Iraq. But we know that the only way that we can get our troops out is 
to establish an international process, and we are not going to 
establish an international process until such time that we give up the 
occupation, that we remove our troops and close our bases because that 
is what is fueling the insurgency. So we can turn this around.

But this President and administration, which has such a talent for 
war, is determined to wreak chaos throughout the region. That is what 
they want. More chaos, more war, more control, as America moves towards 
fascism. Let's call it what it is. We are losing our democracy here. 
What do we stand for? What are those troops out there for? They believe 
in this country. They love this country. And if we love this country 
and the troops, we have to bring them home. But, instead, we have got 
an administration that is prepared to do something else because, in 
Iraq, his new plan is a plan for more door-to-door fighting. It is a 
plan for more war, more civilian casualties, more troop deaths, more 
wasted money, more destabilization in the region and more separation 
from the world community. This President wants to send more troops to 
Baghdad in the middle of a civil war. This President wants to continue 
a war that everyone knows in Iraq the situation cannot be won 
militarily.

Does anyone in this administration have any sense at all? Does anyone 
in this administration have any heart, that we can send our troops into 
this miasma and cause not only their deaths but the deaths of innocent 
civilians when the President talks about taking the restrictions off 
our troops? What does that mean? Is that licensing wholesale slaughter 
of civilians and then a counter reaction which results in our troops 
getting slaughtered? This whole thing is wrong. This is not what 
America should be about. And everyone knows that.

And yet the President last night had the nerve to talk about the 
Iraqi oil again. He can never talk about Iraq without talking about 
oil. They want to privatize Iraq's oil. Big surprise. Our troops were 
sent into Iraq. What was the first thing the administration had them 
do? Go to the oil ministry. They didn't have them go to protect 
antiquity, protect children. No. Protect oil.


Do you know the Baker Report pointed out that 500,000 barrels of oil 
are being stolen every day? With 140,000 to 150,000 American troops 
there, how in the world can we have all that oil being stolen? How can 
that happen?



Do you know what the market value of that oil is? If you run the 
numbers, about $62.25 a barrel. That is over $11 billion worth of oil a 
year stolen. The patrimony of Iraq is just being stolen.

How are we going to have peace if the U.S. is sitting on top of oil, 
talking about privatizing the oil for the President and all of his 
buddies in the oil industry? We are going to have peace in that region? 
Those people are going to step back and let that happen? No way.

That is why we have to get out of Iraq, end the occupation, bring our 
troops home, close the bases and give the Iraqi people control of their 
oil once again and begin a process of reconciliation.

We need to create a new context where the international community 
helps us, because we are on our way out of there. The international 
community is not going to help the United States as long as we are 
occupiers.

You know, Mr. Speaker, this President wants to expand the war and the 
American people should be very concerned because it is not just the 
sons and daughters who are over there, but it is more who will be sent 
through an expansion of the war. It is the jeopardy of an escalation.

Have we not learned anything from the experience in Vietnam? Have we 
not learned that this march of folly we are on has been duplicated in 
the past? Have we not learned that the attempt to use raw military 
power is doomed to failure in a world that is interdependent and 
interconnected? Don't we know that we have a capacity to evolve? Isn't 
the American Revolution really a series of evolutions of our upward 
march into something better than we are? Aren't we prepared to take 
that? I think we are.

I think the American people know it is time for us to take this new 
direction, to reconnect and reunite with the world community. And we 
will begin that when this Congress takes a stand and says no more money 
for war; when this Congress takes a stand and says use the money that 
is there to bring the troops home; when this Congress takes a stand and 
says close those bases, don't privatize the oil. When we become 
actually a co-equal branch of government, which was the intention of 
our Founders in drawing up the Constitution and in ratifying the 
Constitution of the United States.

That is what America was always supposed to be about, not about an 
imperial Presidency. We rejected kings. We rejected autocracy when this 
country was founded. We didn't come through this long constitutional 
experience to the administration of George Bush just to turn our back 
on everything America is about, turn our back on what our real purpose 
as a Nation is. It is about taking care of our people.