# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `7ca30cc42e9be3d99bf0ad1ce7c450fa`
`Mr. LEWIS of California â€” 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I think it is very important for the Members to one more 
time remind themselves, ourselves, that this is the President's 
supplemental and it is designed to provide needed funding for our 
troops who are representing our interests and fighting for freedom in 
Afghanistan.

I think it is very important that this amendment goes on to restrict 
year 2011 funds from being used in a manner inconsistent with a July 
2011 troop withdrawal unless expressly provided for and by a joint 
resolution of the Congress. The President of the United States has 
indicated in his policy administration statement coming from his chief 
advisers that if the amendments we have been considering this evening 
are a part of this bill, those chief advisers will recommend to the 
President that he veto this funding measure.

It is very apparent that the other body tomorrow is leaving town, if 
they haven't already left town. Indeed, amendments to this bill will 
cause this bill to involve a considerable delay for funding for our 
troops almost regardless. As I argued under the previous 
administration, we should not tie the President's hands while he is 
executing his duties as Commander in Chief, perhaps the most solemn of 
the Commander in Chief's responsibilities. This amendment would do just 
that.

Further, just this week the President's new commanding general 
testified that the July 11th date is not a race for the exits. Rather, 
that date will begin a condition-based process. He further left open 
the option of recommending changes or delays in the current plan.

The amendment further attempts to encumber future year funds, which 
is not only impractical, but the conditions on which those funds would 
be encumbered are questionable.

Honestly, I fail to see the logic in attempting to fence future year 
funds, and I can't help but wonder why try to do this now when the 
fiscal year 2011 process is working its way through the committee. The 
war on terror, Mr. Speaker, continues to be very real. Our troops 
certainly understand it, even if our majority leadership does not 
understand it.

Of course, I want our troops home as quickly as possible, but tying 
the hands of the Commander in Chief and the commanders executing the 
war is irresponsible and dangerous.

Mr. Speaker, for that reason, I have a unanimous consent request.

Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the Speaker's table 
the bill, H.R. 4899, with the Senate amendments thereto, and concur in 
the Senate amendments.