# FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `7d39f8e7a361e29b70542289ea021fcb`
`Mr. HODES â€” 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Well, I hear you loud and clear, and I think the American 
people do, also.

You know, there's often a mistrust of politicians, and you and I came 
to Congress not from lives as professional politicians. You and I came 
to Congress because we saw trouble in our country. We saw priorities 
that weren't being handled right. We saw policies that weren't working 
for hardworking American people. We saw a country we loved where the 
Constitution was treated as a nuisance, where the American people 
weren't told the truth, where the real needs of hardworking folks in 
our districts, in our home States, the needs for health care, for good 
schools, for good jobs, for rational trade policies, for an end to wars 
that didn't work weren't being answered by the politicians when we ran 
for office.

You were a doctor. I practiced law for years. I was never in the 
State legislature. I don't think you were either. We came here to do 
the most good for most of the people all of the time.

And on this bill in particular, it is such a shame that it has become 
any kind of political football. We didn't make it that way. What we did 
on this bill was we reached across the aisle and we said to our 
Republican colleagues, come on, this is for America; we can at least 
agree on this, that we're going to get past the gridlock, we're going 
to help kids because that's what Americans are about.

We're good, decent people who understand that our kids are our 
future, and whatever political party we're in, our kids are our future. 
We love them and we want to help them. They shouldn't be sick. The 
sight of one sick child who otherwise could have been helped with the 
SCHIP bill, who goes ill, who lies there sick because his family or her 
family can't afford to take her to the doctor because this President 
has decided that a war in Iraq is worth spending $191 billion on but 
our kids aren't worth $35 billion over 5 years is something that I 
think you and I have a hard time understanding. It has a direct impact.

And for us as politicians here in Washington, sitting in the House of 
Representatives, it's a great privilege, great honor, great obligation 
which we take seriously, but ultimately, the way change happens in this 
country is at the grassroots. It's people around America, and there are 
probably a lot of folks who are listening to us tonight because this 
goes out all over the country, and what I'm begging the people of this 
country to do, what I'm asking is that it's up to them, Mr. Speaker. 
It's up to the people in this country to say to the President, to say 
to their representatives, whether they're Republicans or Democrats, who 
haven't voted for the SCHIP bill and who have got to vote to override 
this veto, it's up to the people of this country to step up, step 
forward, use e-mail, use mail, use the telephones. Don't let this go.

We need the people of this country to step up and speak to their 
representatives and say this veto must not stand. It's not right for 
America. It's not who we are. It's not the moral thing. It's not the 
right thing to do monetarily. It's not the right thing for our kids, to 
send a message loud and clear to the


President of the United States that says we're not going to stand down 
with you, we're going to stand up for our kids.

Because if we don't do it, if the people of this country don't do it, 
if the House of Representatives, if the Congress won't stand up for 
kids, we know the President won't, who will? We have the opportunity in 
the next week or so to come to a vote, and I think it's going to come 
up to the floor of this House on Monday next week. Maybe I'm off on my 
date. It will be the 18th of October. There's going to be a vote right 
here on this floor where you and I are standing of whether or not we 
are going to override the President's veto, and I want my colleagues 
and especially those who we need on the other side of the aisle who are 
thinking about whether or not to support the President or support the 
kids to hear from the people of this country, because I'm betting, as 
sure as I'm standing here representing the good people of New 
Hampshire, I'm betting the people of this country want the President 
and the Congress to stand up for kids, not to stand down with the 
discredited President.

That's what I'm betting. That's where I am putting my money. I'm 
putting my money on the kids, and I'm putting my money on the people of 
the United States of America. What do you think?