# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `7d8ba69c6ce0b6bd7752c94a97a40a72`
`Mr. HOYER â€” 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the chairman for yielding.

I urge my colleagues to support this supplemental appropriations 
bill, and I appreciate the bipartisan support that this bill has 
received. It makes vital investments in the needs of our troops, 
responsible policy abroad and security at home.

I want to thank Chairman Obey and his staff for their hard work in 
putting this legislation together. The supplemental supports our 
troops, who are in harm's way, and honors their service when they 
return home. $1.2 billion for health and support programs for military 
families, $734 million to compensate servicemembers and veterans for 
every month their service was extended by stop-loss orders.

The supplemental also makes important commitments to our national 
security. It follows through on President Obama's commitment to remove 
all combat troops from Iraq by 2010, and it refocuses our attention on 
Afghanistan and Pakistan, which remain havens for terrorists seeking to 
destabilize the region and harm Americans.

American military involvement is an important part of our effort for 
a stable Afghanistan that no longer harbors terrorists. That effort 
also includes training Afghan security forces, police development work 
and a diplomatic surge.

Of the $5.1 billion that this supplemental dedicates to Afghanistan, 
$3.6 billion is intended for local security forces, a critical 
component of our objective; $980 million is for efforts to strengthen 
the economy and the rule of law; and $536 million is for civilian 
diplomacy. We've also come to understand, as President Obama has 
repeatedly stressed, that the stability of Afghanistan is intimately 
tied to the stability of Pakistan, which is under threat from insurgent 
Taliban.

I believe that this supplemental will help reduce that threat through 
comprehensive funding for counterinsurgency development and diplomacy 
programs in Pakistan.

But it is also essential that the Afghanistan and Pakistan 
governments hold up their end of the bargain. That is why this 
legislation requires the President to report to Congress by February of 
next year on the progress of


those governments in five key areas: The level of political consensus 
to the level of corruption, steps to eliminate it, success in 
counterinsurgency, cooperation of their intelligence service with our 
country, and the government's ability to control their own territory.

All of these are critical information points for us to have. This 
information will be essential to ensuring that our policy remains 
realistic and wise and we hope successful in this critical region of 
the world.

Finally, the supplemental makes a number of other important 
investments in our security. These include funding for pandemic flu 
preparedness and vaccine stockpiles, the importance of which have been 
dramatically demonstrated in the past weeks; funding to address 
violence along the U.S.-Mexico border, a priority I strongly support 
and observed the need for when I was in Mexico last month; and funding 
for important international food, refugee and disaster assistance.

I would comment briefly on the issue with reference to Guantanamo. 
First of all, this does not provide for the release of anybody from 
Guantanamo. Secondly, the President has widely said, We need a plan for 
Guantanamo, and is pursuing that. This language provides for that 
planning process to go forward. Thirdly, I would observe that almost 
none of those held at Guantanamo have used that courtroom, to which Mr. 
Tiahrt referred. That is to say, there hasn't been a finding in these 
cases. There ought to be findings. But in any event, I agree 
absolutely, and I think everybody on this floor agrees that anybody who 
is a terrorist ought not be released anywhere. We will have to decide 
how to resolve this issue. It's a thorny one.

I might observe that the former Secretary of State, Colin Powell, 
former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, former national security 
adviser to the first President Bush, observed that he thought 
Guantanamo ought to be closed on national television over a year ago 
and he said, Today, if not yesterday.

Now having said that, this President is pursuing I think a very 
thoughtful effort to see how that goal can be accomplished. It's a 
difficult one, but we need to work with him in accomplishing that 
objective.

I thank the chairman for his work. I thank the Chair and ranking 
member, Mr. Murtha and Mr. Young, of the Defense Subcommittee for the 
work that they've done on this to ensure that our troops have what they 
need to prosecute the policies of this country and to keep our citizens 
and the Nation safe.