# None
## `7e5dd13ed11ebefbf2d111bb6a2a20e3`
`Mr. LARSON of Connecticut â€” 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Well, let me first and foremost 
congratulate the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Meek), and Mr. Ryan and 
Mrs. Wasserman Schultz and Mr. Murphy for continuing to come to the 
floor, the 30-somethings, and talk about issues that are so important 
to this country. There is no more important issue before this Congress 
or this country, than the war in Iraq.

There is no more important issue to the American public. But it is 
clear, and I think General Odom stated it


best, because as the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Meek) pointed out, 
this Congress, with its small Democratic majorities, has done what it 
can to end the war in Iraq and put a bill on the President's desk. The 
President opted to veto that bill. Our colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle opted to stay the course with the President of the United 
States.

As General Odom says, and I quote, ''The end game will start when a 
senior senator from the President's party, or a senior Member from the 
House of Representatives, much as William Fulbright did to LBJ during 
Vietnam, stands up and says no, stands up and says let's end the war.''

Let's create the kind of strategic withdrawal that we need in order 
to preserve our troops, in order to maintain our military's readiness, 
in order to bring sanity back into the lives, especially the reservists 
and the National Guard who have put out so much for us. We are going to 
go home at the end of this week and celebrate the Fourth of July while 
our troops are slugging it out there, while this administration goes 
through some endgame strategy where they sound like the Bobbsey twins 
getting together and say, ''Well, now, all of a sudden, September 15 is 
only a snapshot of perhaps what will happen.'' A snapshot.

To the men and women who are putting their lives on the line every 
single day, it's time to end the war. That will only happen in this 
House of Representatives and in the United States Senate, as was 
pointed out by General Odom, when Members on the other side of the 
aisle recognize that they have to stand up and say ''no'' to the 
President. They hint about it. They talk about it.

Meanwhile, while they dither, we lost more than 23 soldiers this past 
weekend. How much longer can the insanity continue here without a 
strategy that provides us with the strategic withdrawal to an over-the-
horizon force as has been advocated on this floor by colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle? Why is it that Ron Paul is the only presidential 
candidate who has the nerve on the Republican side to talk about it 
without fear of being called unpatriotic or in fact booed in an 
audience?

This Chamber should be a chamber where we have the opportunity to 
speak truth to power. Thank God for people like Wayne Gilchrest. Thank 
God for people like Walter Jones. But Members on the other side of the 
aisle need to join with this majority so that we can create an override 
if the President remains obstinate, along with the Vice President, in 
this myopic pursuit of victory. Victory. No definition of what 
''victory'' is, other than ''staying there for as long as it takes.'' 
We see that the Iraqi government is not living up to its proposals, 
that the surge is an entire failure. Yet, people come to the floor and 
people present in the newspapers arguments that somehow the surge might 
work, what it just needs is a little more time, or perhaps what it 
needs is even more troops.

It is time to end this war. It is time to make sure that we have 
people on the other side of the aisle that are willing to speak truth 
to power and face up to the fact that it is in the best interest of our 
country, that it is the very American thing to do, to stand up for our 
troops, to provide for our families that are here at home worried sick 
about the prospect of sending their loved ones into this insurgent 
civil war nightmare we have come to call Iraq.

The American public is way ahead of this Chamber, way ahead of the 
Senate. We plead with our colleagues, especially as we go forward to 
this July 4 weekend, to find the courage of our forebears and to stand 
up, since we are the body that decides on war. You have Senator Warner 
saying that he ought to reconsider the authorization of this war, to do 
what they did in Vietnam, to recognize that the Congress, during that 
era, stood up and deauthorized the Gulf of Tonkin resolution that put 
an end to an unjust war.

We know now, of course, that we found no weapons of mass destruction. 
We know now that we had no exit strategy. We know now that this 
administration's closest adviser that they took into their bosom was 
Ahmed Chalabi, who ultimately ends up saying, ''So what? I lied to you. 
So what? I lied to you. You got what you wanted. You had a civil war in 
your country. The Iraqis are going to have to have a civil war in their 
country.''

Americans soldiers, men and women who have served this country with 
honor, go over there to fulfill their duty to their country. We have a 
duty and a responsibility here to make sure that we are doing 
everything within our power to make sure that they are safe and secure. 
Instead, we have stuck them in the middle of a civil war. The military 
objectives of this war have long since been accomplished. It is time to 
bring the troops home.

I commend Mr. Meek and Mr. Ryan for having come to this floor day in 
and day out and discussed this thing. But we have to turn it up. 
Especially for those of you in our viewing audience, continue to turn 
it up at home. Turn up the conversation and the dialogue that so many 
have taken to the streets, to protest, to talk about moving other 
Members of this great body to come and arrive at the same conclusion 
that most Americans have. It is time for the safe, secure and strategic 
withdrawal of our troops from Iraq.

Mr. Meek, I thank you for the opportunity to come down here and 
address, along with you, Members of the 30-something Group, who have 
continued to speak truth to power here. I especially want to commend 
Mr. Ryan from Ohio for his efforts, as well.