# None
## `7e698f97e39e19019cfe49796586a604`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN â€” 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, the chairman of 
the committee (Mr. Waxman) for his important work in this area and 
moving the committee to take a look at this.

Look, the question is why does the Bush administration not want us to 
see this information about corruption in the Iraqi Government. One 
thing is clear, it is not that we are hiding something from the Iraqis 
that they don't already know. They know about the problem. In fact, we 
had Judge Radhi from the Iraqi Government who had been thrown out of 
his job because he was uncovering corruption testify.

So if it is not the Iraqis we are trying to shield this information 
from, why is it? It is pretty clear that the administration doesn't 
want the American people to hear it. I think they are finally


understanding that their position is untenable.

Just yesterday the State Department sent a letter saying: ''There is 
no Department 'directive' prohibiting officials from providing Congress 
any information relating to corruption in Iraq.'' That is just flatly 
false. In fact, we have a copy of the directive right here.

Before the committee began its hearings, we asked for some State 
Department officials to come before the committee and talk about 
corruption issues. Well, the night before they came before the 
Oversight Committee, they were given this directive. Here is what it 
says. These are the areas which are red lined. That means these are the 
topics that they are not allowed to talk about in public: ''Broad 
statements/assessments which judge or characterize the quality of Iraqi 
governance or the ability/determination of the Iraqi Government to deal 
with corruption, including allegations that investigations were 
thwarted/stifled for political purposes,'' and it goes on.

It is very clear that the State Department did not want their 
representatives coming before the committee to tell the truth about 
Iraqi corruption. And since then, when their officials actually came 
before the committee during the hearings, they refused to answer 
questions, the broadest kind of questions.

Let me give you an example of questions that Ambassador Lawrence 
Butler, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern 
Affairs, said he couldn't answer: whether ''the Government of Iraq 
currently has the political will or capability to root out corruption 
within its government.''

That's an important question for the American people.

Also: ''whether the Maliki government is working hard to improve the 
corruption situation so that he can unite his country.''

Another question that was put to the State Department representative 
by the committee: whether Prime Minister Maliki ''obstructed any 
anticorruption investigations in Iraq to protect his political 
allies.'' These are important questions to answer for the American 
people. These are questions that go to the heart of whether or not the 
policy in Iraq is succeeding or failing. They go to the heart of the 
question about whether the billions of dollars that taxpayers in this 
country have put into Iraq are being put to good use or whether they 
are squandered through waste, abuse, and corruption.

This resolution simply says let's not play games here. Let's not play 
games with the truth. Let's not try to hide the facts from the American 
people. The people of Iraq know well the problems they have with 
respect to corruption. In fact, some of their leaders have put their 
lives on the line and have had to flee Iraq when the government said 
they were getting too close to the truth.

But the people here need to know the truth, and the State Department 
and the Bush administration should not be using games to try and hide 
the facts and hide the truth from the American people on a very 
important issue.