# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2642,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `7e8070c2691a4bd3c2a2dc120d67a2f4`
`Mr. OBEY â€” 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Speaker, ahead of time, I will not yield to anyone 
until I have completed my statement.

This criticism on process comes from the same crowd that stood by and 
allowed 30 pages of unread material to be surreptitiously and 
anonymously slipped into a conference report on the defense bill after 
the conference report had completed action, language which insulated 
the drug industry from liability in cases where their products injured 
the health of customers.

This comes from the same crowd that several years ago blocked the 
ability of this House to vote on a single matter that had anything at 
all to do with the most significant domestic appropriation bill, the 
Labor-Health-Education bill. They simply wrapped it into other items 
and refused to allow the House to work its will on any piece of that 
proposal which had more than 500 programs which were insulated from 
House review.

This comes from the same crowd that brought three supplemental 
appropriation bills to the floor without running those bills through 
the Appropriations Committee or subcommittee.

Now they say that they want one vote on the package all put together. 
Well, let me tell you, what we are trying to do is to avoid Members 
having to look at everything in one package. What we are trying to do 
is to give them a straight up-or-down vote, a clean shot on the issue 
of whether you want to provide funding for the war or not. It is a 
procedurally neutral approach. If you want funding for the war, you 
vote ''yes'' and if you don't want it, you vote ''no.'' That way you 
can't hide on that issue. It stands out there alone, and people see 
where you stand.

We are also having a separate vote on whether or not we should impose 
conditions on the administration in exchange for the use of that money, 
straight up-or-down vote, clean shot at it, can't hide behind any other 
issue.

And thirdly, we are taking the administration's other requests and 
two priorities of our own and putting them together in a third 
amendment, again separate, not tied into a big package, out there so 
that Members can choose up or down whether they want to do that or not. 
I make no apology for that.

Now we are being lectured about the fact that this is a bloated bill. 
Out of all of the appropriated items in this bill, all but $2 billion 
are requested by the administration. Congress has the temerity to be 
asking to spend 1 percent of the appropriated amount in this bill. The 
rest the President takes ownership of.

Secondly, we are being told, Oh, it's terrible because we've taken a 
military bill and ''larded'' it up was the term that the gentleman from 
Janesville used, that we larded it up with unemployment compensation 
and with the expanded GI Bill. Well, I suppose additional unemployment 
compensation benefits may look like lard to a Member who makes $165,000 
a year; but to people who have exhausted their unemployment benefits 
and have been out of work for 6 months, it doesn't look like lard to 
them; it looks like basic bread, and I think we should be ashamed of 
the fact that we haven't provided this sooner.

It also may look like lard to the gentleman from Janesville for us to 
say that we want to provide expanded education benefits to the GIs who 
fought this war. But I would remind every Member of this House, this is 
the first war in my knowledge where we have never had any sense of 
shared sacrifice. The only people in this society who are being asked 
to sacrifice are the veterans and the military families. They have been 
sent to Iraq and Afghanistan again and again and again, and we have the 
quaint idea that we ought to be able to take 6 percent of the cost of 
that war to date, 6 percent, and devote it to expanding education 
benefits for people who have sacrificed by wearing the uniform of the 
United States.