# HONORING THE MARINE CORPS ON THE ANNIVERSARY OF ITS FOUNDING ON  NOVEMBER 10, 1775
## `7f163ac40aa3bc5f86add678d73ea5aa`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina â€” 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Representative Carol Shea-Porter for 
introducing this resolution and my colleagues, led by Representative 
Robin Hayes, on the Armed Services Committee, for bringing it to the 
floor for our consideration.

As a proud co-sponsor, I am honored to have this opportunity to 
celebrate the United States Marine Corps and recognize their 232 years 
of service to our Nation.

On November 10, 1775, the Second Continental Congress passed a 
resolution that called for two battalions of


marines to be raised for use as naval infantrymen. From that day 
forward, marines have defended this Nation in every American military 
conflict. They first saw combat in the Bahamas in 1776 under the 
leadership of Captain Samuel Nicholas, the officer who is considered by 
most to be the first marine commandant.

Though the Marines were disbanded following the Revolutionary War, 
they were reestablished on July 11, 1798, and from that day forward 
have protected and defended Americans and our allies around the world. 
From Europe to the Philippines, South America to Asia, and the Middle 
East, marines have fought in every corner of the world.

In addition to traditional military duties, marines protect our 
embassies and dignitaries around the world. They have served in a 
humanitarian capacity bringing relief and aid to citizens of other 
nations as well.

In the global war on terrorism, 76,000 marines have been deployed to 
Iraq to help establish peace, root out insurgent remnants and al Qaeda 
terrorists, and bring stability to that young democracy. I am grateful 
for my son, a naval doctor, who is working with the marines in Iraq 
today.

As part of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan, marines have 
helped topple the repressive Taliban regime and dismantle the al Qaeda 
network. For their service on these two fronts of the global war on 
terrorism, marines have been decorated with thousands of honors and 
medals. These decorations include 7,720 Purple Hearts for wounds 
suffered during combat, and 866 Bronze Stars with ''V'' for exceptional 
valor in a combat situation.

Since the inception of the United States Marine Corps, 298 marines 
have earned the Congressional Medal of Honor, our Nation's highest 
military honor. On a personal note, the Second District of South 
Carolina, which I have the honor of representing, is home to Marine 
Corps Air Station Beaufort and Parris Island. All marine recruits east 
of the Mississippi River go through Parris Island.

Marines are the most elite fighting force in our military. Their 
reputation for professionalism and selfless duty has earned them the 
thanks of a grateful Nation and the appreciation of millions around the 
world over two centuries of service and sacrifice. My late father-in-
law, Major Julian Dusenbury, and my late brother-in-law, Captain Tim 
Dusenbury, were proud marines, and our family especially appreciates 
the service of the Marine Corps.

On behalf of my colleagues in the House of Representatives and the 
American people, I want to thank the tireless men and women of the 
United States Marine Corps for their service and sacrifice. Each and 
every day they are working to protect our Nation and our allies around 
the world.

I encourage all my colleagues to join me in supporting and expressing 
our most humble appreciation for the few, the proud, the Marines.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.