# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `7f4abb45f5971346719e4dfdc3d5c5f8`
`Ms. ESHOO â€” 2 August 2007`

---


Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill to provide 
minimum ''dwell-time'' for our troops who have served in Iraq.

Madam Chairwoman, I opposed the war in Iraq from the outset and will 
continue to do so.

In 4 years, the war has done great damage to our global prestige, our 
national morale, and our national security. More than anything, it has 
damaged our military and their families.

It is Congress's duty to ensure that our troops are treated with 
respect and that they have resources for the missions they perform. 
Equally important, it is Congress's job to ensure our troops have the 
rest and training they need. With this bill, we will do right by our 
military personnel and their families by ensuring they have adequate 
time at home between deployments.

The Defense Department has established a goal to provide active duty 
service personnel


with 2 years at home between each year they are deployed, and 5 years 
at home for every year of deployment for reserves.

Regrettably that goal has not been achieved. In fact, the policy has 
been waived by the Defense Department for those serving in Iraq.

In the last 4 years our troops and reserves have shouldered the 
burden of multiple deployments overseas with professionalism and 
courage. The strain on them and their families grows with each day they 
are away from home, yet tours of duty have been extended time and 
again. Just this past April, Secretary Gates announced that tours of 
duty for the Army would be increased from 12 months to 15 months.

The strain is not only being felt by our troops and their families, 
it's also affected the Armed Forces, particularly the Army, in meet 
recruiting and retention goals.

With this bill, we call for time between deployments for active-duty 
personnel in Iraq to equal to or exceed the length of their most recent 
deployment. For National Guard and Reserve units and members, the bill 
calls for time between deployments of at least three times longer than 
the length of their most recent deployment.

This may seem like a small step, but for our troops it's essential.

I urge my colleague to vote yes on this bill.