# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `7fbba941b24ba5d231bc9bf190ca713b`
`Mr. DAVIS of Alabama â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, approximately 24 hours from now, 
this House will bring this debate to a conclusion and it will vote. And 
the vote, based on everything we expect, will be an overwhelming one. 
It will include people from the left of this House, the right of this 
House, it will include people from both political parties. It will 
include people who supported this war and who believed in it 5 years 
ago, and it will include those who have questioned it from its 
inception.

And there is a reason for this consensus, Mr. Speaker. There is broad 
agreement on several things in this House. There is broad agreement 
that we have been caught in the cross-hairs of a civil war between two 
sets of radical Islamist fundamentalists, neither of which shares our 
values.

There is broad agreement in this House that the human and material 
cost of this effort has gone too high, and there is broad agreement in 
this House that the moral obligation is not to put 21,000 more soldiers 
into harm's way; but to do the opposite, to begin the process of 
pulling our men and women out of this cauldron that is now Iraq.

And there is broad agreement on one other point, Mr. Speaker. It is 
this: that the President of the United States is wrong to say that it 
doesn't matter to him what this Congress thinks, or what this country 
thinks.

I am reminded, Mr. Speaker, I am one of the younger Members of this 
House, I was in college a little more recently than some of my 
colleagues.

I had a very esteemed professor back in the 1980s named Richard 
Newstadt who wrote about the American Presidency for a number of years. 
And one night he invited all the freshmen in the class to come over and 
to have a dialogue with him about the future of the Presidency. And a 
number of us said to him, Mr. Newstadt, what do you fear about the 
Presidency of the United States? And it is interesting what he said, 
and it is relevant today. He said, I don't fear that someone corrupt 
will become President one day. I don't fear that someone incompetent 
will become President. There are too many guardrails built in the 
system. The process is too exacting for that to happen. But what I 
fear, he said, is that one day someone will come in that office who is 
absolutely convinced he is right about something on which he is 
absolutely


wrong. And he said this: that if the country is frightened enough, if 
we are in enough danger, that enough people may think that what is 
rigid is what is strong.

Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker, several of my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle have said that this resolution carries no 
weight, no legal or moral force. I will tell you the weight that this 
carries, my friends. Twenty-four hours from now, 65 percent of the 
Members of this Chamber will send a signal to the American people that 
we have heard their voices. That is a powerful thing when I think of 
all the people in this country who sent a clear signal, last November 
7, that they were not heard.

And I end with this point. A number of my colleagues in this debate, 
our adversaries in this debate have said that there is a group in 
Washington. There is a group of people on the left. Some of you have 
said there is a group on the other side of the aisle who want to 
defund, or who don't somehow have the strength, the fiber, to support 
our troops.

I remind you, my friends, your disagreement is not with the 
Democratic Caucus. It is not even with the 50 or so in your ranks who 
will vote for this resolution. It is a disagreement with the 65 percent 
of this country. It is a disagreement with the people in my very 
conservative State of Alabama, 60 percent of whom now think this war is 
wrong and who say to me, Mr. Davis, why on Earth have we taken sides in 
a battle between radical Islamic fundamentalists? Why is a blood feud 
between Shiia and Sunni worth the spilling of American blood?

They are the ones you are saying are wrong. They are the ones you are 
saying lack strength.

So, Mr. Speaker, I simply end by thanking my colleagues who had the 
good judgment to be right about the futility of this war from the 
outset, by thanking the colleagues who were wrong 5 years ago and are 
right today, and by asking one last thing.

The President of the United States, who brags that he has watched 
none of this debate, if he could only hear just one plea from debate, 
that he listen to some fact, some evidence, because, Mr. Speaker, this 
is the problem that we face with this President. No set of facts, no 
set of truths can tell him that he is wrong. Tomorrow this Chamber will 
tell him so