# None
## `80013bcb5ad5c44f6b16f1ef1c4369ea`
`Mr. KYL â€” 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Now, the Defense authorization bill is extraordinarily 
important to our troops. To add a totally extraneous provision amending 
a different bill to the Defense authorization bill, especially one 
which carries the suggestion of a Presidential veto, would be the 
height of irresponsibility on the part of the Senate. The substantive 
arguments of the Department of Justice with respect to habeas are 
correct, and the Senate should not, therefore, seek to amend another 
statute in the Defense authorization bill, thus inviting a veto of the 
bill.

Related to the habeas corpus provision is the amendment that is now 
pending offered by Senator Graham of


South Carolina. That amendment would strike a provision of the Defense 
authorization bill--section 1023--that also relates to the subject of 
treatment of detainees. Unfortunately, the way the committee bill was 
written, the bill that is before us right now, if we retain that 
language and we don't strike it, as the Graham amendment would do, we 
would essentially be returning to a law enforcement approach to 
terrorists that, frankly, failed us before 9/11 and obviously does not 
work in the post-9/11 context. We can't deal with all of the enemy 
combatants as criminal defendants. These people who are picked up on 
the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan cannot be dealt with in the 
same way as criminal defendants in our court system. Senator Graham's 
amendment would strike these harmful provisions of the bill.

I wish to begin by reminding my colleagues of the evil nature of 
these terrorists and then go through the three particular parts of this 
provision that require removal.

First, a requirement that al-Qaida terrorists held in Iraq and 
Afghanistan be given lawyers--I mean, just imagine that; second, the 
authorization to demand discovery and compel testimony from 
servicemembers; and third, the requirement that al-Qaida and Taliban 
detainees be provided access to classified evidence. To state these 
three provisions of the bill is to recognize immediately why it is so 
harmful that they be included in this bill and why they need to be 
stricken, but focus for just a moment on the people we are talking 
about held at Guantanamo Bay and picked up in Iraq and Afghanistan.

At least 30 of the detainees released already from Guantanamo Bay 
have since returned to waging war against the United States and our 
allies. Of course, the provisions of section 21 are all designed to 
effectuate the release of some of these prisoners--some of these 
detainees. So 30 have already been released because we no longer deemed 
them to be a threat to the United States or our forces, but after their 
release, 12 of the released detainees have been killed in battle by 
U.S. forces or--well, by U.S. forces; others have been captured. In 
other words, we released them, they went right back to the battlefield, 
12 of them have been killed in battle, others have been recaptured, 2 
released detainees became regional commanders for Taliban forces, and 1 
attacked U.S. and allies' soldiers in Afghanistan, killing 3 Afghan 
soldiers.

One released detainee killed an Afghan judge. One released detainee 
led a terrorist attack on a hotel in Pakistan and a kidnapping raid 
that resulted in the death of a Chinese civilian, and this former 
detainee recently told Pakistani journalists that he planned to ''fight 
America and its allies until the very end.''

Even under the procedures today, which give due process to these 
detainees and allow them to be released if we can no longer demonstrate 
they are a threat to U.S. forces--even under these provisions, at least 
30 of the detainees have gone right back to the battlefield and are 
attacking us and our forces.

The provisions of section 1023 would make it very difficult, if not 
impossible, for the United States to detain committed terrorists such 
as this, people who have been captured while waging war against us. No 
nation in the history of armed conflict has imposed the kinds of limits 
this bill would impose on its ability to detain enemy war prisoners. 
War prisoners released in the middle of an ongoing conflict, such as 
members of al-Qaida, will return to waging war. That is the whole point 
of prisoners of war. In the war you capture people and hold them so 
they cannot return to the battlefield to kill your troops. We have 
already seen this happen 30 times with the detainees released from 
Guantanamo, as I said.

If section 1023 were to be enacted, we could expect more civilians 
and Afghans and Iraqis will be killed, and it may be inevitable that 
even our own soldiers will be killed by such released terrorists. This 
is a price our Nation should not be forced to bear.

I mentioned three specific general problems with section 1023. The 
first has to do with a requirement of the bill that al-Qaida terrorists 
who are held in Iraq and Afghanistan must be provided with lawyers. I 
cannot imagine that the details of this were known to the members of 
the committee when they put it into the bill. This could never be 
executed. It would require the release of the detainees; either they 
get lawyers or they have to be released. And here is why. The Defense 
bill requires that counsel be provided and trials be conducted for all 
unlawful enemy combatants held by the United States, including, for 
example, al-Qaida members captured and detained in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, if they are held for 2 years. We hold approximately 800 
prisoners in Afghanistan and tens of thousands in Iraq. None are lawful 
combatants; all would arguably be entitled to a lawyer and a trial 
under this bill. This procedure would at least require a military 
judge, a prosecutor, and a defense attorney, as well as other legal 
professionals.

This scheme is totally unrealistic. The entire Army JAG Corps only 
consists of about 1,500 officers, and each is busy with their current 
duties. Moreover, under the bill, each detainee would be permitted to 
retain private or volunteer counsel. Our agreements with the Iraqi 
Government bar the United States from transferring Iraqi detainees out 
of Iraq. As a result, the bill would require the United States to 
train, transport, house, and protect potentially thousands, or tens of 
thousands, of private lawyers in the middle of a war zone during 
ongoing hostilities. That is impossible.

Think about this in the context of other conflicts, not just in Iraq 
or Afghanistan. In the context of World War II, anybody hearing this 
would think it is nuts. But the bill before us literally requires us to 
provide attorneys to these captured detainees in Iraq--tens of 
thousands of them. This proposal would likely force the United States 
to release thousands of these enemy combatants in Iraq, as I said, 
because there is no way you could provide all of the lawyers to them. 
Obviously, that would further jeopardize our military. By requiring a 
trial for each detainee, this provision would also require U.S. 
soldiers to offer statements to criminal investigators, needing later 
to prove their case after they captured someone. In other words, unlike 
today, when you are on the battlefield and you capture somebody and you 
hold them because they are a threat, but you are not putting them on 
trial, now you are going to put them on trial and you have to have the 
kind of evidence that would stand up in court. You have watched the TV 
shows with the clever defense lawyers. You know about, ''I object, Your 
Honor; that is not relevant,'' or ''that is hearsay.'' On the 
battlefield, who walks around with lawyers making sure Miranda rights 
are read and evidence is collected and statements are taken that will 
hold up in court when they are later tried? And they would need to 
carry evidence kits and cameras, means of identifying the person later 
on. Two years after you capture someone, the defense lawyer could say: 
Is that the person you captured? And if he says, ''Well, those guys all 
kind of looked alike to me when they were shooting at me, so I cannot 
be sure,'' well, the case will get thrown out of court. Or was there a 
chain of custody of the evidence? You would have to do that with the 
evidence taken on the battlefield or it would be thrown out in court. 
They would need to spend hours after each trial writing after-action 
reports, which would need to be reviewed by commanders. Valuable time, 
in other words, would be taken from combat operations and soldiers' 
rest whenever they capture somebody on the battlefield.

A horrible precedent would be set for the future. Aside from the war 
in Iraq, this provision would make fighting a major war in the future 
simply impossible. In World War II, we detained over 2 million enemy 
prisoners of war. It would have been impossible for the United States 
to have conducted a trial and provided counsel to 2 million captured 
enemy combatants. The bottom line, with respect to this provision, 
section 1023, the requirement of counsel for these detainees held in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, is that it would be impossible to implement. It 
is patently absurd and, as a result, it should be stricken.

The second point is authorizing al-Qaida detainees to demand 
discovery and compel testimony from American soldiers. I alluded to 
that a second ago. The underlying bill would actually authorize 
unlawful enemy combatants, including al-Qaida detainees in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, to demand discovery


and compel testimony from witnesses, just as we do in our criminal 
courts in the United States. These witnesses would all be the U.S. 
soldiers who captured the prisoner. Under the bill, an American soldier 
could literally be recalled from his unit at the whim of an al-Qaida 
terrorist in order to be cross-examined by him, or his lawyer, or a 
judge.


Newspaper columnist Stuart Taylor describes the questions such a 
right would raise:




 Should a Marine sergeant be pulled out of combat in 


 Afghanistan to testify at a detention hearing about when, 


 where, how, and why he had captured the detainee? What if the 


 northern alliance or some other ally made the capture? Should 


 the military be ordered to deliver high-level al-Qaida 


 prisoners to be cross-examined by other detainees and their 


 lawyers?


It goes on and on. The questions abound. As the Supreme Court itself 
observed in Johnson v. Eisenstrager, which is the law on this subject:




 It would be difficult to devise a more effective fettering 


 of a field commander than to allow the very enemies he is 


 ordered to reduce to submission to call him to account in his 


 own civil court and divert his efforts and attention from the 


 military offensive abroad to the legal defensive at home.


This is the U.S. Supreme Court talking not long after World War II, 
when a question similar to this arose, and a Justice of the Supreme 
Court says it ''would be difficult to devise a more effective fettering 
of a field commander than to allow the very enemies he is ordered to 
reduce to submission to call him into account in his own civil court 
and divert his efforts and attention from the military offensive abroad 
to the legal defensive at home.''

It would be difficult to conceive of a process that would be more 
insulting to our soldiers.

In addition, many al-Qaida members captured in Afghanistan were 
captured by special operators whose identities are kept secret for 
obvious reasons. This would force them to reveal themselves to al-Qaida 
members and expose themselves, or simply forgo the prosecution of the 
individual, which is obviously more likely to happen. You simply could 
not do all of this, so you would have to forgo the prosecution and 
release the prisoner.

Clearly, Americans should not be subject to subpoena by al-Qaida. 
Think about that. That brings me to the last point--the requirement 
that al-Qaida and Taliban detainees be provided with access to 
classified evidence. You would have to give the enemy your classified 
evidence, the sources and methods of your intelligence operations, in 
order to prosecute them, which is what would be required by the bill.

Here is the exact language. The bill requires that detainees be 
provided with ''a sufficiently specific substitute of classified 
evidence'' and that detainees' private lawyers be given access to all 
relevant classified evidence.

When this bill was brought up in the Senate, some Members questioned 
whether this bill requires us to share classified information with al-
Qaida detainees and their lawyers. I will direct this to specific pages 
and lines of the bill to show what it does.

On page 305, lines 16 through 21, the bill expressly provides that 
''the detainee'' must be provided--I am quoting now--access to a 
''sufficiently specific'' summary of ''the classified evidence that is 
submitted against the detainee.'' This language appears to mirror the 
Classified Information Procedures Act rules that apply to the use of 
classified information in Federal courts. Like CIPA, these procedures 
give a detainee a right to the substance of classified evidence. The 
Government might be able to redact some names or other information, but 
only if it still gives the detainee the substance of the evidence. And 
if the United States is not willing to compromise the evidence in this 
way, it cannot use the evidence.

Similarly, at page 305, line 5, the bill expressly requires that 
under its provisions, ''counsel for the detainee is provided access to 
the relevant classified evidence.'' I don't know how you can be any 
more specific than that. His lawyer gets to see relevant classified 
evidence.

Foreign and domestic intelligence agencies are already very hesitant 
to divulge classified evidence to the CSRT hearings we already conduct. 
These are part of the internal and nonadversarial military process 
today. Intelligence agencies will inevitably refuse to provide 
sensitive evidence to detainees and their lawyers. They will not risk 
compromising such information for the sake of detaining one individual 
terrorist.

In addition, the United States already has tenuous relations with 
some of the foreign governments, particularly in the Middle East, that 
have been our best sources of information about groups such as al-
Qaida. If we give detainees a legal right to access such information, 
these foreign governments would simply, I presume, shut off all further 
supply of information to the United States. Why would they do 
otherwise? They don't want to expose their own sources, compromise 
their evidence, or expose even the fact that they have cooperated with 
the United States. By exposing our cooperation with these governments, 
the bill perversely applies a sort of ''stop snitching'' policy toward 
our Middle Eastern allies, which is likely to be as ruthlessly 
effective as when applied to criminal street gangs to potential 
witnesses to a crime in the United States.

Some of our best information is gained from foreign intelligence 
services who, like us, are trying to find out everything they can about 
these terrorists. Once they know we have to turn the information they 
gave us over to the terrorists, they are going to stop cooperating with 
us.


The argument I presented--that sharing classified evidence with al-
Qaida detainees and their lawyers would badly damage America's efforts 
in the war with al-Qaida--was recently reinforced by several 
declarations that were recently introduced in the ongoing Bismullah 
litigation. These declarations were filed by the Director of National 
Intelligence, the Director of the CIA, and by the Director of the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation, our three top intelligence agencies. 
Together, these statements confirm that sharing classified information 
with detainees and their lawyers would not only inevitably lead to 
leaks of sensitive information, but that it would violate American 
intelligence agencies' agreements with foreign governments and with 
confidential human sources--violations that would inevitably undermine 
these organizations and individuals' willingness to cooperate with the 
United States in the future.

The final point is that we already know, from hard experience, that 
providing classified and other sensitive information to al-Qaida 
members is a bad idea. During the 1995 Federal prosecution in New York 
of the ''blind sheikh,'' Omar Rahman, prosecutors turned over the names 
of 200 unindicted coconspirators to the defense. They were required to 
do so under the civilian criminal justice system of discovery rules, 
which require that large amounts of evidence be turned over to the 
defense. The judge warned the defense that the information could only 
be used to prepare for trial and not for other purposes. Nevertheless, 
within 10 days of being turned over to the defense, the information 
found its way to Sudan and into the hands of Osama bin Laden. As the 
district judge who presided over the case said, ''That list was in 
downtown Khartoum within 10 days, and bin Laden was aware within 10 
days that the Government was on his trail.''

That is what happens when you provide classified information in this 
context.

In another case tried in the civilian criminal justice system, 
testimony about the use of cell phones tipped off terrorists as to how 
the Government was monitoring their networks. According to the judge, 
''There was a piece of innocuous testimony about the delivery of a 
battery for a cell phone.'' This testimony alerted terrorists to the 
Government surveillance and, as a result, their communication network 
shut down within days and intelligence was lost to the Government 
forever--intelligence that might have prevented who knows what.


This particular section of the bill, 1023, repeats the mistakes of 
the past. Treating the war with al-Qaida similar to a criminal justice 
investigation would force the United States to choose between 
compromising information that could be used to prevent further 
terrorist attacks on one hand and on the other letting captured 
terrorists go free. As I said before, this is not a choice our Nation 
should be required to make.

Let me read a couple of the quotations I alluded to earlier from the


Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, GEN Michael Hayden, 
relative to the damage that would be caused by requiring this 
classified information to be turned over to the defendant or his 
lawyers:




 . . . [M]uch of the information that is potentially 


 discoverable was provided to the CIA by foreign intelligence 


 services or discloses the specific assistance provided by the 


 CIA's global partners in the global war on terror. If the CIA 


 is compelled to comply with the Court's decision, the CIA 


 will be obligated to inform its foreign liaison partners that 


 a court order requires that the CIA provide this information 


 to the Court and detainee counsel. There is a high 


 probability that certainly liaison services will decrease 


 their cooperation with the CIA because of the extent that 


 their information has become enmeshed in U.S. legal 


 proceedings. . . .


He goes on:




 [S]ome information discoverable under the Court's decision 


 originated with, or pertains to, clandestine human 


 intelligence sources. These individuals provide information 


 or assistance to the CIA only upon the condition of absolute 


 and lasting secrecy. Revealing this information--even to the 


 Court or to cleared counsel--would expressly violate these 


 agreements, and would irreparably harm the CIA's ability to 


 utilize current sources and to recruit sources in the future. 


 . . .


Let me read one other comment from General Hayden, the Director of 
the CIA:





. . . With over 300 detainees at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, it 


 appears that compliance with the Court's decision will 


 require disclosure to several hundred--perhaps more than one 


 thousand--private attorneys who are not employees of the U.S. 


 Government and who are not trained in handling classified 


 information. With so many untrained individuals allowed 


 access to such sensitive information, I believe that 


 unauthorized disclosures, even if inadvertent, are not only 


 probable, but inevitable. The regulations controlling access 


 to classified information recognize that limiting the number 


 of people with access is a necessary step in safeguarding 


 sensitive information. The Court's decision would eviscerate 


 the U.S. Government's carefully conceived plan to keep its 


 most highly sensitive information compartmentalized and would 


 increase the likelihood of public disclosure.


I quote a comment from Robert Mueller, the Director of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, in his affidavit to the court in the case I 
mentioned:




 Disseminating human source information could reasonably 


 lead to the disclosure of their identities because often the 


 information provided by human sources is singular in nature.


In other words, he is the only person who knows about it, so when the 
information is divulged, then the other side knows exactly where it 
came from.

Back to Director Mueller:




 The disclosure of singular information could endanger the 


 life of the source or his/her family or friends, or cause the 


 source to suffer physical or economic harm or ostracism 


 within the community. These consequences, and the inability 


 of the FBI to protect the identities of its human sources, 


 would make it exceptionally more difficult for the FBI and 


 other U.S. intelligence agencies to recruit human sources in 


 the future.


These are the kinds of irreparable harm that would result if the 
language of section 1023 remains in the bill. Not my words, but 
Director Mueller of the FBI, General Hayden, the Director of the CIA, 
and now I quote from the Director of National Intelligence, Michael 
McConnell. Admiral McConnell had this to say:





. . . [T]he Intelligence Community has many sources of 


 information that must be protected. For example, much of the 


 information at issue was provided by foreign intelligence 


 services or would reveal the specific assistance provided by 


 foreign partners in the global war on terror. Certain liaison 


 services will likely decrease their cooperation with the U.S. 


 Government if their information is caught up in U.S. court 


 proceedings.


One final comment.





. . . Human sources also provide the Intelligence 


 Community with critical information, but only upon the 


 condition of absolute secrecy. Revealing this information 


 would violate the sources of confidentiality we provide these 


 sources and would likely result in their minimizing or 


 ceasing altogether their cooperation. Such a disclosure would 


 harm the Intelligence Community's ability to retain current 


 sources and recruit new ones, and if we cannot recruit and 


 retain sources, the Intelligence Community simply cannot 


 conduct its business.


That is the point of Senator Graham's amendment to strike these 
provisions from the bill. They would irreparably harm our intelligence 
collection capability, which is the first defense against these 
terrorists. That is why the Graham amendment striking section 1023 
should be adopted.

We have already bent over backward to provide the detainees at 
Guantanamo the ability to contest their detention and to have their 
detention reviewed and eventually even have it reviewed in the U.S. 
Supreme Court, and before that the Circuit Court of Appeals.

This is a very fair system, more fair than has ever been provided by 
any other nation in any other circumstance and more than our 
Constitution requires. So we are treating the people we capture in a 
very fair way.

What we cannot do is to take those same kinds of protections and 
apply them anywhere we capture someone in the foreign theater. And as I 
said before, never in the history of warfare have they been subjected 
to the criminal justice system of our country. To take that system and 
try to transport it to the fields of Afghanistan and Iraq would 
obviously not only be breaking precedent but is a horrible idea for all 
the reasons I indicated.

I ask my colleagues to give careful attention to the dangerous return 
to the pre-9/11 notion that these terrorists are, after all, only 
common criminals and we have to treat them that way. They have made no 
secret that they are actually at war with us, and we ignore this point 
at our peril.

I remind my colleagues that the Statement of Administration Policy on 
this bill says the President will be advised to veto the bill if 
section 1023 remains in the bill and refer again to a similar statement 
from the Department of Justice with respect to the habeas corpus 
provisions that would be added to the bill in the amendment of Senator 
Leahy.

I hope my colleagues will take all of this information into account 
when they consider voting on these amendments in this very important 
Defense authorization bill which we need to pass and the President will 
want to sign so we can do what is necessary to support our troops whom 
we have sent into harm's way.

I urge my colleagues to support the Graham amendment to strike 
section 1023 and not to support the additional habeas corpus rights to 
terrorists who attack our troops.