# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `8052adf53d4925a68fa89e873960a571`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise today to speak on where America 
stands in the global war on terror. This week, of course, marks the 
seventh anniversary of the 9/11 attacks on our country. While our 
allies in Europe have suffered terrible acts of terrorism in subsequent 
years since September 11, 2001, our Nation has been blessed with no 
attacks since that time. Yet that single fact should not obscure the 
reality that America remains dangerously vulnerable to future attacks 
and that the very policies pursued by President Bush have made our 
Nation less secure.


Today, the President announced that he will redeploy 8,000 soldiers 
out of a total of 146,000 U.S. troops in Iraq over the remainder of 
this year and early next year. The scheduled replacements for those 
8,000 forces will instead head to Afghanistan to respond to the sharply 
deteriorating circumstances there. I am pleased the President has 
started to come to grips with the severity of the threat we face in 
Afghanistan and the need to devote more U.S. troops and resources to 
what remains the central front in the war on terror. But let's be 
serious. Shifting 8,000 American troops to Afghanistan is wholly 
inadequate when we see Taliban extremists using sanctuary bases in 
Pakistan to increase attacks on U.S. and NATO forces there, when we see 
the Karzai government struggling to maintain the confidence of the 
Afghan people, and when we see the Taliban gaining new recruits by the 
day.

Against all evidence, President Bush continues to view Iraq as the 
central front on the war on terror. We have heard him say that over and 
over again. He refuses to acknowledge al-Qaida established a presence 
in Iraq only as a by-product of our invasion in 2003. He ignores recent 
intelligence reports that al-Qaida leaders are sending senior level 
commanders and new recruits into Afghanistan, not Iraq. President Bush 
disregards the fact that al-Qaida has reconstituted its global 
headquarters to plan future worldwide attacks of terrorism in the 
frontier regions of Pakistan, ungoverned territories that remain off-
limits to Pakistani military. After September 11, 2001, this President 
vowed al-Qaida would never again enjoy sanctuary to target the American 
people. Yet we are seeing it happening again before our very eyes.

So, unfortunately, President Bush will end his Presidency in the same 
manner he started--with a disastrous miscalculation of the threat posed 
by al-Qaida and the necessary tools to combat Islamic extremism. When 
the President took office in January of 2001, he and his senior 
advisers dismissed the focus on terrorism held by the preceding 
administration, refusing to believe a superpower such as the United 
States could be threatened by nonstate actors. That mindset allowed the 
administration to ignore repeated warnings by the intelligence 
community that al-Qaida was preparing for a major attack on the United 
States.

Following the 9/11 attacks, the President rightfully moved to topple 
the Taliban regime in Afghanistan after they refused to turn over 
senior al-Qaida leaders. Yet the administration failed to recognize 
that only a long-term investment of troops, developmental assistance, 
and economic benefits was essential if Afghanistan was to not once 
again collapse into a failed state. Instead, the President shifted his 
focus to Iraq, redeploying such critical


assets as Special Forces units and unmanned aircraft to the Persian 
Gulf to prepare for what was an inevitable war.

Five years later, we are still living with the consequences of this 
administration's rush to war in Iraq. Afghanistan teeters on collapse, 
with the drug trade resurgent and Taliban forces controlling more and 
more territory. Pakistan remains dysfunctional, with a difficult 
transition of power occurring now and an extremist insurgency taking 
root in its border regions. Iran has grown immeasurably stronger over 
the past 5 years, taking advantage of America's inattention to move 
forward on its nuclear program and support extremist groups throughout 
the Middle East. And what we can never forget, the men who perpetrated 
the most deadly attacks on American soil remain free 7 years after the 
fact. This is not only a slap in the face to the families of the 3,000 
Americans murdered on September 11, it remains a continuing danger as 
al-Qaida plots new attacks on our Nation.

In his speech today at the National Defense University, the President 
made the following assertion:




 Together, with our allies, we made substantial progress 


 towards breaking up terrorist networks--and we will not rest 


 until they are destroyed.


We have heard similar statements from President Bush and senior 
administration officials dating back to 2002--that America is taking 
the fight to al-Qaida and winning the war on terrorism. The only 
problem is the administration has never defined what victory means nor 
provided a set of benchmarks to allow the American people to judge 
whether we are making real progress.

For that reason, I am joined today by Senator Hagel in introducing an 
amendment to the Defense authorization bill to require the executive 
branch to produce, on a semiannual basis, a comprehensive report on the 
status of our Nation's efforts and the level of resulting progress to 
defeat al-Qaida and related affiliates in the global war on terrorism. 
The Congress receives numerous reports on the status of our efforts in 
individual theaters, such as Iraq and Afghanistan, but we have never 
received a basic update from the administration on what the United 
States is doing to ensure that al-Qaida never again succeeds in 
launching the type of devastating attacks such as those we suffered 7 
years ago this week. This amendment, if adopted, would allow the 
Congress and the American people to hold administration officials--this 
or future administration officials--accountable when they claim we are 
winning against al-Qaida.

Let me briefly conclude by returning to a topic on which I have 
spoken previously on this floor--the danger of nuclear terrorism. 
Tomorrow, a high-level panel convened by the Partnership for a Secure 
America, consisting of some of the men and women who served on the 9/11 
Commission, will release a report card on America's efforts to combat 
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and prevent a 
catastrophic act of terrorism involving such weapons on American soil. 
Press reports indicate the final grades will not be good. Our 
Government will receive an overall grade of C, with sharp criticism 
focused on our lack of a coherent governmentwide strategy, our acute 
vulnerability to an act of bioterrorism, and our continuing failure to 
secure loose fissile materials and nuclear stockpiles around the world.

Four years ago, this President declared in a campaign debate that he 
agreed with his opponent that the prospect of a nuclear weapon 
destroying an American city is the single greatest threat to U.S. 
national security. Yet while there have been useful efforts in recent 
years, it remains clear the U.S. Government has not marshaled all of 
its resources to combat this threat. For instance, we have spent more 
funds securing our aviation system against another hijacking than 
preventing a future act of nuclear terrorism. However, I fear when al-
Qaida strikes our Nation the next time, they will not be using their 
old playbook.

America stands today less secure than it should be. Our massive 
military presence in Iraq, now approaching its seventh year, has 
strained our most precious resources--our men and women in uniform. It 
has reduced our flexibility to respond to various other threats 
throughout the world, including Russia's recent military incursion into 
Georgia, and emboldened other enemies--Iran most notably. We have 
failed to finish the job we started in Afghanistan. For too long, we 
tolerated a dictator in Pakistan on the basis that he was best equipped 
to serve as an ally in the war on terrorism, only to find out al-Qaida 
had reconstituted its central headquarters in that very nation.

The President and those who seek to continue his policies 
indefinitely will make speeches all week long that we are winning the 
war on terror. But they make those statements in direct contradiction 
to the assessments of our intelligence community, and they fail to 
offer the evidence to back up their assertions. Enough is enough. We 
cannot afford to continue the same misguided policies that have made 
America less safe for another 4 years.

Madam President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.