# None
## `80b0ce604bd1381ba8e4ce41ece62bce`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio â€” 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I totally agree with you. I think the first step 
for most people who find themselves in a massive hole and going in the 
wrong direction, or following someone who continues to lead them down 
the wrong road, is to not follow that person any more.

What the Democratic Congress has provided is what the American people 
sent the majority of the Democrats down here for in November, and that 
is to take this war in another direction, take our foreign policy in 
another direction. That is what this supplemental bill has done. The 
American people wanted us to take care of the veterans, and we 
increased $500 million for post-traumatic stress disorder, $500 million 
additional for brain injuries, that is what the American people wanted, 
for us to fix the veterans's problem.

They wanted to make sure, they got tired of hearing about kids over 
there without body armor. So we made sure that no kid could go over 
there, or soldier or adult who is going to Iraq will not be over there 
without the proper equipment, body armor, up-armored Humvees, the 
proper rest when they get back, for over a year, let them rest. We gave 
the American people what they wanted, and what the troops deserved.

To have that vetoed by a President who has been wrong on every single 
major foreign policy and domestic issue over the past 6 years doesn't 
make any sense to the American people, and it certainly doesn't make 
any sense to us. You look, and it's getting better. You hear this all 
the time, it's not getting better.

It's not. If it was getting better, do you think you would have this 
uproar from the American people? Do you think you would have all of 
these new Members of Congress if things were getting better?

In a report that just came out, National Counterterrorism Center, 
terrorist incidents in Iraq rose by 91 percent from 3,468 in 2005 to 
6,630 in 2006 and getting worse. Innocent Iraqis are getting killed all 
the time, and they believe it's because the American soldiers are 
there, because the American presence is there. That is what they 
believe, and we are saying we need to redeploy out of these major 
centers and stop policing a civil war. That is exactly what's 
happening.

One of the things we wanted to do in the supplemental that the 
President just vetoed is hold the Iraqi government accountable for 
training their own soldiers. You know, the President has always said, 
when they stand up, we stand down. Then they keep telling us that the 
Iraqi soldiers are standing up, but we are not standing down, which 
means they are not standing up.

We wanted to put benchmarks in there so that the Iraqi soldiers would 
have to meet them or were leaving. Now, you can't give people open-
ended situations in which they can get out of. All we are trying to do 
is hold the Iraqi government responsible.

I don't like saying it, because I didn't support this war from the 
beginning. To go in there and knock everything around and then say you 
are not doing what you are doing, but the bottom line is, if you do not 
get yourself trained, if you do not, as a country, get your police 
force ready, and your military ready, we can't stay here forever.



And, Mr. Speaker, I don't think that is too much to ask. And the 
response from the President through his Secretary of State, Secretary 
Rice, signaled Bush's opposition to, ''Any war spending bill,'' check 
this out, ''that penalizes Iraqi's government for failing to make 
progress.'' We are not going to punish them for failing to make 
progress. Are we in a therapy session here?