# None
## `8152119e2d39d19d677e2a00f44bd16f`
`Mr. INOUYE â€” 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, there is no question that these vehicles, 
the MRAPs, save lives. The committee is well aware of that, and we 
concur with that. That is why, Mr. President, to date, Congress has 
provided nearly $11 billion for the rapid production and fielding of 
8,000 MRAP vehicles.

As a result, there are now 435 MRAPs fielded in the theater, and by 
Memorial Day 2008 we will have fielded 8,000 MRAPs.

Believe me, we are doing everything possible to ensure the Department 
has sufficient funds to continue this production of MRAPs. On Monday, 
this week, in the short-term continuing resolution, we provided another 
additional $5.2 billion exclusively for MRAPs. Providing a specific 
appropriation in a continuing resolution is extremely unusual and 
demonstrates the commitment of the Congress, and in particular the 
Appropriations Committee, to ensure that all the funding that is 
necessary for MRAPs will be provided to the Department of Defense.

The vehicles manufactured with these funds will be produced in March 
and April of 2008 and fielded in the theater by Memorial Day 2008.

We are aware there is a remaining fiscal year 2008 requirement for 
$11.5 billion for MRAPs, even though the administration has not yet 
requested any funding. The additional $11.5 billion would fully fund 
the new increased program requirement of 15,274 vehicles, including 
10,000 MRAPs for the Army.

The Department of Defense is seeking this $11.5 billion by November 
15 in order to avoid a break in production. This is very important. We 
anticipate addressing this in the upcoming supplemental. But if it is 
not completed by November 15, it will be in the next continuing 
resolution.

The vehicles produced and procured with these funds would be produced 
by May through September 2008, approximately at a rate of 1,200 
vehicles a month. This additional $11.5 billion for


MRAP fully funds the program requirement in fiscal year 2008 and 
saturates the industrial base through the end of 2008--September 2008. 
Any funding provided in addition to the requirement of $11.5 billion, 
would be for vehicles that would not be produced--and I repeat--would 
not be produced until fiscal year 2009, and many vehicles would not be 
fielded in the theater until that spring, summer, and fall of 2009.

I believe many of us believe our troop presence in Iraq will be 
significantly reduced by then.