# HOUSE DEMOCRATS' TOP 100 BROKEN PROMISES
## `81b2219ca71091b23b6d177829302fb8`
`Mr. CARTER â€” 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. I thank my friend and colleague from North Carolina.

This is an interesting document that we have got here. I have got a 
copy, certainly a smaller version than is on the board there. These Top 
100 broken promises, I thought it would just be interesting to just 
thumb through here and turn to a page and see if we can find one that 
we might find interesting.

I am just going to randomly look here. Let's see, energy policy, 
Energy Independence Day.

Promise: ''We will make this 4th of July Energy Independence Day.'' 
That's coming up next week, I believe. That's from Speaker-elect Nancy 
Pelosi back on May 9, 2007, at a press conference. ''The House energy 
bill has evolved into a heated internecine battle'' that threatens to 
spoil Democrats' hope of passing an overall energy policy by July 4. 
''Pelosi versus Dingell Heats Up.'' ''Energy Tension Rises At 
Meeting,'' Roll Call, one of our newspapers here on the Hill, June 13, 
2007. ''House Members will depart for the 4th of July district work 
period without passing independence energy legislation of any kind.'' 
That's a quick look through here.


Let's look over here at something else. ''Eliminate Reliance on 
Foreign Oil,'' promise: ''To free America from dependence on foreign 
oil, we will achieve energy independence for America by 2020 by 
eliminating reliance on oil from the Middle East and other unstable 
regions of the world.''

''Nancy Pelosi, A New Direction for America,'' her speech, page 6. 
''During the first 6 months of the Democrat-


controlled Congress, no energy independence legislation has been passed 
by the House, much less sent to the President's desk. But 228 Democrats 
voted to impose more than $6.5 billion in new taxes on small and 
independent American energy producers, which will lead to less domestic 
supply, higher prices for consumers, and an increase in America's 
dependence on foreign sources.'' That's also from Roll Call.

Let's turn over here a couple of more pages and look at what we can 
find.

Probably one of the things that Americans worry about most is their 
security for their families and their that children. You know, we don't 
ever want the United States of America to have to suffer the kind of 
terrorist activity that our friends in Israel suffer where, when you 
send your kids to the park to play ball or just swing or just visit 
with their friends, there is some idiot that wants to blow you up and 
kill you. We don't want that in this country. Homeland Security is 
important.

The Democrats, when they ran the last election, they made promises 
that they would implement all of the 9/11 Commission report. That was 
kind of their campaign.

''On the first day we control Congress, we will begin by passing all 
of the 9/11 Commission recommendations,'' that's what the then minority 
leader Nancy Pelosi promised in the last election cycle campaign.

Another part of that promise, ''House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi 
says she plans to pass all of the 9/11 Commission recommendations 
within 100 legislative hours of a Democrat takeover of the House of 
Representatives.'' That comes from Congressional Quarterly.

But, now, I am afraid that promise got broken. Let's see what they 
actually did here. ''But the 9/11 package will not include a 
reorganization of congressional oversight of Homeland Security 
Department or an attempt to declassify the intelligence budget, despite 
the fact that those two were key recommendations. Although the 
Democrats pledged during the election to implement all of the 
Commission's unfulfilled recommendations, aides now concede that doing 
so will be harder than they thought,'' Congressional Daily, December 
15, 2006.

''Pass clean spending bills without Iraq policy changes. House 
Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Ranking Member John Murtha, 
Democrat from Pennsylvania, told reporters last week that he would not 
use the spending bills to enact policy on Iraq, a war he strongly 
opposes.'' That's from Congressional Daily.

Then we have ''A Broken Promise.'' An editorial in the Arkansas 
Democrat Gazette accused Democrats of using the supplemental spending 
bill to author resolutions that would severely restrict supplies and 
reinforcements for American troops in harm's way and would tie the 
President's hands by imposing all kinds of conditions on his ability to 
reinforce the troops. It comes from the Arkansas Democrat Gazette 
editorial, February 21, 2006.

CNN John Roberts questioned John Murtha, Democrat from Pennsylvania, 
about his slow-bleed scheme to undermine our generals and our troops on 
the ground on the American Morning, CNN, April, 2007. Mr. Roberts asked 
''You heard what President Bush said, that Congress shouldn't be 
micromanaging the war. What do you say?'' John Murtha, ''That's our 
job, John.''

On the upcoming Department of Defense spending bill, it's clear that 
House Democrats and Representative Murtha do intend to attach to the 
latest version of his slow-bleed scheme to undermine our troops. House 
Democrat leaders are considering votes next month on another 
legislative package aimed at changing course in Iraq and might announce 
those plans this week,'' said aides Monday. ''The Iraq language would 
be an attached to the Defense Appropriations bill.'' This was June 26, 
2007, ''Democrats Weighing Attempt to Change Course of Iraq War,'' 
another broken promise.

Let's thumb over here just a little bit more and see what we can do. 
Something that--I just heard a lecture this morning by an expert from 
over at Georgetown University on international terrorism, where he told 
us in an hour-long lecture that the resources that we have on the 
ground, and the intelligence community and the special operations 
forces that operate are critical in being able to bring down al Qaeda, 
which is a world-wide network, and, quite frankly, very, very much 
still alive in countries like England and Western Europe, and their 
number one target is still to attack the United States of America.

He stressed that we have got to have intelligence at every level 
assisting us in finding these people. I think this was recognized when 
we started this session of Congress.

Here is a promise, ''We all, Democrats and Republicans alike, take 
very seriously our responsibility to protect the American people. We 
know the important role that intelligence plays in that.''

Another bill, another promise, ''This bill contains robust funding 
for critical intelligence programs.'' The first quote was from Nancy 
Pelosi. This is from Silvestre Reyes, chairman of the Intelligence 
Committee.

But here is the broken promise. ''Democrats pledge to provide full 
funding for critical intelligence programs. But just months after 
taking power, they took precious resources away from critical 
intelligence programs and used the money to fund research on global 
warming instead. Led by U.S. Representative Silvestre Reyes of Texas, a 
coalition of D.C. Democrats say national security will be better served 
if the CIA cash is used for global warming research, because apparently 
there just aren't enough people studying this issue out there.'' This 
is from an article that says Intelligence Committee Threatens National 
Committee, Detroit News editorial, May 13, 2007.

We can move on. This is fun. You just turn to a page and see what we 
have got here. I welcome anybody to come turn the page for me. I am not 
making these things up here.

''Reform Entitlement Spending to Protect Future Generations. This 
summer, Office of Management and Budget Director Rob Portman said the 
administration would return to entitlements and taxes in earnest 
following the elections. Senior Democrats on the House and Senate 
Budget Committees, Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, and 
Representative John Spratt of South Carolina, responded by saying 
Congress, not the administration, must drive these efforts.'' That's 
from The Hill newspaper.



But the broken promises, but the Democrat budget plan puts off tough 
and divisive decisions. Democrats did not include proposals to control 
growth and entitlement programs that are projected to swamp the rest of 
the budget in coming decades as the baby boom generation retires.

That comes from Congressional Quarterly March 29, 2007. Democrat 
budget does nothing to curtail runaway entitlement spending, 
Tallahassee Democrat editorial April 16, 2007.

So we've just got promise after promise after promise. And as my 
colleague from North Carolina pointed out to us tonight, we've got an 
approval rating of this Congress at 14 percent, the lowest in the 
history of the United States Congress, by my understanding. The last 
time we were close to this low was back when the Democrats were last in 
power back just before 1994.

This is a sacred body here. And it's important to win elections, and 
people use a lot of tools to win elections.

But back where I come from, and where a lot of the folks around here 
come from, when you tell somebody you're going to do something, you 
ought to do it.

I once had a man tell me, if you ever serve in a legislative body, 
the greatest tool you take to that body is your word. And if you give 
somebody your word, you ought to keep it. And if you don't keep it, you 
ought to go home. And that's a man named Bob Johnson, who there now is 
an office building in the Capitol complex in Austin, Texas named after 
this great Texan. That is great advice. And that's why these broken 
promises, I think, should weigh upon all of us because, quite frankly, 
a man or a woman's word ought to be their bond. And if you say you're 
going to do something, you ought to do it, and if you can't do it, you 
ought to at least try. And if you're not going to try, then you've 
broken your promise. And that's really not what this House ought to be 
all about.



I know there's a lot of campaign rhetoric, but a lot of these things 
were not said in campaign and, in fact, many of them were said right on 
the floor of this House as a pledge to the colleagues in this House. 
These pledges shouldn't be broken. We have a duty to raise the level of 
honor that it now seems to be the American people seem to be perceived 
is lost in this House of Representatives. I hope we can all take my 
friend Bob Johnson, who's now passed away, his advice. Let's make our 
word our bond.

I'll yield back to my colleague from North Carolina.