# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `83353b86259e0bf592b8fb94cf075858`
`Mrs. CHRISTENSEN â€” 18 October 2007`

---


Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today for one main reason: 
the 10 million low-income children in this Nation whose health, health 
care and wellness are very much at stake. This is especially true today 
as the House votes on whether to override the President's inhumane, 
unethical and irresponsible veto of the Children's Health Insurance 
Program.

We honored the promises we made to this Nation when we not only 
passed the Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act, the CHAMP 
Act, but when we exercised the art of compromise and passed a 
bipartisan CHIP bill that, though more modest than the CHAMP Act, still 
represented a respectable step in the right direction. In fact, the 
CHIP bill that so many of us stood behind would have provided health 
insurance coverage to nearly 4 million currently uninsured, low-income 
children. Unfortunately, despite our tireless efforts, the President 
opted to veto the bill that would have reduced the number of uninsured 
children in this Nation by nearly half.

Madam Speaker, we can and should do better, not only because we 
promised to, but because this Nation's children deserve it. We cannot 
and should not shortchange the most vulnerable among us, and we cannot 
and should not relent in our efforts to ensure that our Nation's low-
income children have reliable


access to the health care services and treatments that they will need 
to be healthy and to pursue their life's destinies.

Madam Speaker, today we have yet another opportunity to reach across 
the political aisle and stand together to do the right thing for 
America's children. As I know my colleagues on both sides of the aisle 
well know, the children who are currently enrolled and would be newly 
enrolled in CHIP are not undocumented residents; they are legal 
American citizens. Efforts to try to derail our intention to override 
the veto by inundating CHIP in an immigration debate are both 
unconscionable and inaccurate.


And, the children who are and would be covered by CHIP also are not 
children from wealthy or even middle-income families who could 
otherwise afford health insurance. The mythical $83,000 CHIP family is 
just that: a myth. They are no more real than the weapons of mass 
destruction we invaded Iraq to find.

The reality, however, is that more than 9 in 10 children enrolled in 
CHIP are from families with incomes that are below 200 percent of the 
Federal poverty level. That means, Madam Speaker, that CHIP kids are 
coming from families earning less than $41,300 a year for a family of 
four. These are not financially comfortable families. And, these are 
not families living lavishly off the backs of taxpayers. These are 
hardworking American families whose children's health care needs often 
exceed their financial means. They deserve better and their children 
deserve better, and we ought to override this veto to ensure that the 
CHIP program captures these kids and keeps them from joining the ranks 
of the uninsured.

It is has never been lost on me or my colleagues in the minority 
caucuses that CHIP is a key minority health issue. In fact, 8 in 10 
currently uninsured African-American kids and 7 in 10 Hispanic children 
are eligible but not enrolled in the program. Without health insurance, 
children suffer worse health outcomes and are less able to enjoy their 
childhoods because of illnesses that are often preventable. Overriding 
the President's veto, therefore, not only will help reduce uninsurance 
among our Nation's most vulnerable children and improve their health, 
but also will help us reduce the racial and ethnic health disparities 
that plague our health care system.

I urge all of my colleagues to override the President's veto. We not 
only can and should do better, but we should demand that the President 
do more for our children. Let's do it now for all of America's 
children.