# None
## `836f11704213d49107d90333d10bf4b9`
`Mr. ALTMIRE â€” 6 February 2008`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. And the gentleman knows that there are three legs to 
this stool that we are talking about. One is the increase in spending 
leading to the deficit. One is the misplaced priorities of the cuts to 
programs that are critically important. The third is what's left out of 
this budget that we all know we have to deal with, and I'm going to 
save that discussion for a little bit later as we walk through some of 
these programs. But the full cost of the Iraq war and the cost of the 
alternative minimum tax relief for this year are not included in this 
budget. So a $407 billion deficit without even including probably the 
two largest items that we are going to have to face in the next year, 
we'll get to that point, but there are a lot of issues here.

When I talk to people when I go back home in the district, I hear a 
lot about


entitlement spending, and when I go home, I think I can make a pretty 
good case that Medicare is important and we shouldn't be cutting 
Medicare at a time when the number of people qualifying for Medicare is 
rising exponentially and health care costs are going up. I can make a 
pretty good case, I think, for that. But I will still hear people say, 
You know what? I'm not on Medicare. That's an entitlement program. I 
don't care about that. Cut it. It's a boondoggle. Just cut it. I do 
hear people say that. They're wrong, but they say it. Well, there are 
some things in this budget that nobody, nobody in their right mind 
could justify freezes or cuts in these types of programs. And maybe our 
colleagues are out there and they say, Show me. What are you talking 
about? What is in the budget that we shouldn't cut?

Well, how about research, health care research through the National 
Institutes of Health? I think that's something that affects everybody. 
If you're not directly affected by health care research, you certainly 
have somebody in your family or you have somebody, a loved one or a 
friend, that is affected. And let's talk about the type of research 
that we are talking about.

This budget freezes funding for lifesaving medical research at the 
NIH, National Institutes of Health, regarding diseases such as 
Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, cancer, and heart disease. At a time when our 
medical technology in this country is greater than anywhere else in the 
world and our research and our ability to find treatments and cures for 
these diseases exceeds any time in the history of the planet, we are 
going to cut funding for medical research for Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, 
cancer, and heart disease? I think, Mr. Murphy, that we make a pretty 
good case that that's not a cut that should happen.

This budget also slashes funding, and this is inexcusable, slashes 
funding by $433 million, 7 percent of the overall budget for the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, responsible for infectious 
disease control, prevention programs, and health promotion. So we hear 
a lot about the avian flu, the bird flu, the possibility of a pandemic 
through diseases, whether it be a terroristic issue or just something 
we can't control on the health side. That may be the number one public 
health threat facing the country right now, the possibility of a 
pandemic flu, a worldwide spread of some disease, and we're going to 
take this opportunity to cut the Centers for Disease Control 
specifically for infectious diseases by 7 percent? That's what we are 
going to cut in this budget when we are adding $407 billion to the 
national debt for 1 year? I think it's inexcusable. So I really don't 
think there is anybody that I am going to run into in my district 
that's going to say that's a good idea.