# THE BUDGET
## `84356dd5e720458283e4311df448b259`
`Mr. CONRAD â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Madam President, we are now considering the conference 
report on the budget. For the knowledge of my colleagues, and 
especially my colleague, Senator Gregg, I will consume somewhere in the 
range of 35 minutes. If he has other things to do, we can get that word 
to him so he is not inconvenienced while I make an opening statement.

Here is what we are confronting--a very dramatic deterioration in the 
budget condition of our country. You can see, in 2007, the official 
deficit was $162 billion; that is down from what had been record 
levels. We achieved an all-time--not achieved, there is no achievement 
to it--we saw an all-time record deficit in 2004 of $413 billion. That 
became the record. The year before was the record up until that point--
$378 billion in the red. Of course, the real situation is far worse 
because this does not disclose how much the debt has been increased.

Then we saw some improvement, to 2007, a deficit of $162 billion. But 
now we are right back at record levels--$410 billion estimated for this 
year. I believe it is going to be even worse, and 2009 will be about 
the same level.

When I talk about debt, here is what I am talking about. The gross 
debt of the United States has gone up like a scalded cat under this 
administration. When this President came into office at the end of the 
first year, the debt stood at $5.8 trillion. By the time we are done 
with the 8 years he will have been responsible for, the debt will have 
increased to more than $10.4 trillion--a near doubling of the debt of 
the country. Increasingly, this money is being borrowed from abroad. As 
this chart shows, it took 42 Presidents--all the Presidents pictured 
here, 224 years to run up $1 trillion of U.S. debt held abroad. This 
President has far more than doubled that amount in just 7 years. There 
are over $1.5 trillion of foreign holdings of U.S. debt run up by this 
President in just 7 years. He has taken what 42 Presidents took 224 
years to do and he doubled it and then added another 50 percent to 
foreign holdings of U.S. government debt. The result is we owe Japan 
over $600 billion, we owe China almost $500 billion, we owe the United 
Kingdom a little over $200 billion, we owe the oil exporters over $150 
billion. My goodness, we owe Hong Kong over $60 billion. We now owe 
Russia over $40 billion. That is a sad fiscal record, but that is the 
legacy of this President's fiscal policy.

This tremendous runup in foreign debt means we have spread dollars 
all over the world and are now increasingly dependent on the kindness 
of strangers to finance our debt here. One of the results of that has 
been a substantial drop in the value of our currency. If you think 
about it, the value of a currency is in part a reflection of supply and 
demand. When you put out a tremendous supply of dollars, guess what 
happens to the value of the dollar--it goes down. That is what has 
happened.

You can see back in 2002, this is Euros per dollar. It was 1.13 in 
January 2002. Through the end of last month, we were down to .63. The 
value of the dollar against the Euro has dropped like a rock. It has 
dropped 44 percent.

If anybody is wondering why food prices are going up so rapidly, why 
oil prices are going up so rapidly, here is one of the key reasons. 
Those commodities are sold in dollar terms in the world market. When 
the dollar goes down in value, guess what happens to the value of 
commodities: there is tremendous upward pressure on their value. That 
is what, in fact, has happened.

We have also seen the economic growth of the country stagnate. You 
can see, if we look at the nine previous business cycles we have 
experienced since World War II, you can see that economic growth 
averaged 3.4 percent a year during previous business cycle expansions. 
But, if we look at average annual economic growth since the first 
quarter of 2001, we see it is stagnating at 2.4 percent.

Something is happening in this business cycle that is unlike what we 
have seen in the nine major business cycles we have seen since World 
War II. We see this recovery is much weaker. We see it in job creation; 
we see it in business investment.

For example, on job creation, if you look at job creation, again 
looking at


the nine previous business cycles since World War II, and you look at 
the months after the business cycle peak and look at job creation--this 
dotted red line is the average of the nine other major business cycles 
since World War II--that is the dotted red line. Now, this other line 
is the current business cycle. You can see that we are 10.3 million 
private sector jobs short of the typical recovery since World War II. 
In other words, if you take all the previous nine major business 
recoveries since World War II and you average them, compare them to 
this business recovery, we are running 10.3 million private-sector jobs 
short in this recovery.

What does that tell us? That tells us something is wrong, something 
is wrong with our economic performance.

We don't just see it in job creation. We see it in business 
investment. Again, the dotted red line is the average of the nine 
previous recoveries since World War II. The black line is this 
recovery. You can see that we are now running 59 percent below the pace 
of business investment at the same point during the nine previous 
recoveries. Something quite significant is happening in terms of our 
national economy. Anybody who does not see this and understand it and 
seek to find solutions to it, I think is missing the point. There is 
something wrong with the underlying economy that has been affecting us 
since 2001. It is so atypical, it is so different than the other nine 
recoveries since World War II.

This budget resolution seeks to address some of what we know. It 
seeks to strengthen the economy and create jobs in several different 
ways, first, by investing in energy, education, and infrastructure. We 
think those are priorities to strengthen the economy. It expands health 
care coverage for our children; it provides tax cuts for the middle 
class; it restores fiscal responsibility by balancing the budget by the 
fourth and fifth year of this 5-year budget plan.

It also seeks to make America safer by supporting our troops, by 
providing for veterans health care, by rejecting our homeland and 
rejecting the President's cuts in law enforcement, the COPS Program, 
and for our first responders, our emergency personnel, our 
firefighters, our emergency medical responders.

In terms of the tax relief that is in this budget resolution, this 
budget conference report that has come back from an agreement with the 
House of Representatives, we do the following things. We extend middle-
class tax relief, specifically: the marriage penalty relief is provided 
for; the child tax credit is provided for; and an extension of the 10-
percent bracket.

We also provided for alternative minimum tax relief, because we know 
if we did not, the number of people who would be exposed to the 
alternative minimum tax would explode from roughly 4 million now to 26 
million if we failed to take action.

We also provided for estate tax reform. Right now we are in this 
bizarre situation where the estate tax goes up to $3.5 million of 
exemption per person in 2009; the estate tax goes away completely in 
2010, there is no estate tax; and then in 2011, it comes back with only 
a $1 million exemption. We say that makes no sense at all. We should 
extend the $3.5 million provision per person, $7 million a couple, and 
index it for inflation.

We also provided for energy and education tax cuts to provide 
incentives to develop alternative forms of energy and reduce our 
dependence on foreign oil. We also provided property tax relief and, of 
course, the popular and important tax extenders, things such as the 
window energy credit, the solar credit, the research and 
experimentation credit. All of those are provided for in this budget.

We balance the books by the fourth year, $22 billion in the black, or 
in this case in the green, by 2012. By 2013 we maintain balance, all 
the while we are bringing down the debt as a share of gross domestic 
product from 69.3 percent of GDP to 65.6 percent of GDP in 2013. So we 
are bringing down the debt as a share of gross domestic product each 
and every year of this budget resolution. Let me be the first to say, 
that is not enough. We need to be doing more. I will say in a minute 
how I think we can and should do more. But this is an important 
beginning.

One of the ways we do it is we restrain spending. Under this budget 
conference report, we bring down spending as a share of GDP each and 
every year of the 5-year plan from 20.8 percent of GDP down to 19.1 
percent in 2012 and 2013.

The other side will be quick to say, but you are spending more money 
than the President is. That is true, we are spending somewhat more 
money than the President, because we have rejected his cuts to law 
enforcement, to our first responders, and to other things we think are 
priorities of the American people.

But when they talk about the difference in spending, they have a 
tendency to dramatically overstate the difference. Here is the 
difference between our spending line, which is in green, and the 
President's spending line. If you are looking at this on television, 
you probably cannot see any difference. That is because there is almost 
no difference between our spending line and the President's spending 
line.

In fact, for this year, the difference in total spending between our 
budget and the President's budget is 1 percent. That is the difference, 
1 percent. Over the life of this 5-year plan, you can see it is a very 
modest difference.

Let me turn to 2009, because that is the most immediate year covered 
by this budget plan. You can see the Bush budget calls for $3.03 
trillion of spending. We call for $3.07 trillion of spending. Again the 
fundamental differences are, we are investing in education, in energy 
to reduce our dependance on foreign oil, and on infrastructure which is 
so critically important to our future economic success.

On the revenue side of the equation, we also have somewhat more 
revenue than the President's plan because we have lower deficits and 
lower debt than the President's plan. Here you can see the difference. 
The green line is our revenue line; the red line is the President's 
revenue line. You can see in the first 2 years there is virtually no 
difference between our revenue lines; they are right on top of each 
other. In 2011 there is a slight difference, and 2012, 2013, as we 
climb out of deficit and balance the books.

But again the differences are quite modest, and here they are over 
the 5 years. We are calling for $15.6 trillion of revenue, the 
President is calling for $15.2 trillion of revenue. That is a 
difference of 2.9 percent. That is the difference between the revenue 
we have proposed, which leads to lower deficits and lower debt than the 
President's plan.

You will hear our friends on the other side say, this represents the 
biggest tax increase in the history of the world. We beg to disagree. 
We do not think any tax increase is necessary to meet these numbers. If 
someone is listening and they heard me say, well, Senator, you said you 
have got more revenue, although it is only 2.9 percent more revenue, 
than in the President's plan, but you say you can do that without a tax 
increase, how is that? How can you do that?

Well, here is how I would propose to do it. First, the Internal 
Revenue Service estimates the tax gap, the difference between what is 
owed and what is paid, is $345 billion a year, the difference between 
what is owed and what is paid.

Now the vast majority of us pay what we owe. But unfortunately there 
are an increasing number of people and companies who do not pay what 
they owe. That difference is now estimated at $345 billion a year. That 
goes back to 2001. I personally believe it has grown substantially 
since then so it would be a higher number. But that is not the only 
place where there is leakage in the system. I have shown this chart 
many times on the floor of the Senate. This is a five-story building in 
the Cayman Islands called Ugland House. This little building down in 
the Cayman Islands is the home to 12,748 companies. Let me repeat that. 
This little five-story building down in the Cayman Islands is the home, 
at least they say it is their home, to 12,748 companies. They say they 
are all doing business out of this building.


Now I have said that is the most efficient building in the world, 
little tiny building like that, and it houses 12,000 companies. How can 
any building be that efficient? Well, we know they are not doing 
business there. They are doing monkey business, and the monkey business 
they are doing is to avoid


taxes in this country. And how do they do it? Well, they operate 
through a series of shell corporations, and they show their profits in 
the Cayman Islands instead of the United States to avoid taxes here. 
Why would they do that? Do they not have taxes down in the Cayman 
Islands? No. Is that not convenient? So they do not show their profits 
here, even though they make their profits here, they show their profits 
down in the Cayman Islands. That is the kind of scam that is going on. 
If you doubt it, here is a story that came to us from the Boston Globe 
on March 6 of this year:




 Shell companies in the Cayman Islands allow KBR [that is 


 Kellogg, Brown and Root] the nation's top Iraq war 


 contractor, and until last year a subsidiary of Halliburton, 


 has avoided paying hundreds of millions of dollars in Federal 


 Medicare and Social Security taxes by hiring workers through 


 shell companies based in this tropical tax haven.



 More than 21,000 people working for Kellogg, Brown and Root 


 in Iraq, including about 10,500 Americans, are listed as 


 employees of two companies that exist in a computer file on 


 the fourth floor of a building on a palm-studded boulevard 


 here in the Caribbean. Neither company has an office or phone 


 number in the Cayman Islands, but they claim it is their 


 home.


This is a scam. That is what is going on here. This is the largest 
defense contractor in Iraq, and they are engaged in a total scam to 
avoid taxes in this country. If this does not make people angry, I do 
not know what it would take, because what they are doing is they are 
sticking all of the rest of us who are honest with our tax obligations. 
It does not stop there.

Here our own Permanent Committee on Investigations issued this report 
last year:




 Experts have estimated that the total loss to the Treasury 


 from offshore tax evasion alone approaches $100 billion per 


 year, including $40 to $70 billion from individuals, and 


 another $30 billion from corporations engaging in offshore 


 tax evasion. Abusive tax shelters add tens of billions of 


 dollars more.


So when somebody says: Well, you have got to raise taxes to produce 
2.9 percent more revenue than the President has called for, I say, no, 
you do not. Let us go after some of this stuff. Let us go after these 
offshore tax havens. Let us go after these abusive tax shelters. Let us 
go after this tax gap.

Now, the other side will say, well, there is nothing you can do about 
it. Well, certainly there is nothing you can do about it if you do not 
try. You cannot do a thing if you do not try. But if you try, you can 
get this money. Let me say, I know you can, because I used to be the 
tax commissioner for my State. I was the chairman of the Multistate Tax 
Commission. I went after this money. I got hundreds of millions of 
dollars for my little State of North Dakota going after some of these 
scams. The United States could do much more.

Here is a picture of a foreign sewer system. This is a sewer system 
that is in France. Why do I put up a picture of a sewer system in 
Europe when I am talking about the budget of the United States? Well, 
because the two have a linkage. What is the linkage? The connection is 
that we actually have investors in this country buying European sewer 
systems, not because they are in the sewer business, no, no, no. They 
are buying European sewer systems to reduce their taxes in this 
country. How do they do it? It is very simple. They go over, they buy a 
European sewer system, they then show that on their books as a 
depreciable asset. They depreciate it over a period of years to reduce 
their taxes in this country, and then lease the sewer system back to 
the European city or municipality that built it in the first place.

Now, why should we allow that? This is the kind of thing I think we 
can shut down and easily achieve 2.9 percent more revenue than the 
President has proposed. The question comes, well, why haven't you done 
something about shutting down these scams already? There is a very 
simple reason we have not. It is called the President of the United 
States. Because the President of the United States has repeatedly 
blocked attempts to shut down these scams.

Here are a few of the examples. We tried to codify economic 
substance, prohibiting transactions with no economic rationale, things 
that were done solely to avoid taxes. The President threatened a veto.

We tried to shut down schemes to lease foreign subway and sewer 
systems and depreciate the assets in this country. The President 
threatened a veto.

We proposed ending deferral of offshore compensation by hedge fund 
managers trying to evade taxes in our country. The President threatened 
to veto it.

We proposed expanding broker information reporting so we could close 
down some of this tax gap. The President threatened a veto.

We proposed taxing people who give up their U.S. citizenship in order 
to evade taxes here in America. The President threatened a veto.

Now, I have indicated, I have acknowledged, we have 2.9 percent more 
revenue in our plan than in the President's budget.

The other side will say: Biggest tax increase in the history of the 
world. That is exactly the same speech they gave last year. Now we have 
the benefit of a record. Because we can look back, we can look at the 
speeches they gave last year, and we can look at what has actually 
happened this year. We can see, what did this Democratic Congress do? 
Did they raise taxes? No. In fact, here is precisely what happened: 
They reduced taxes in the House and the Senate by $194 billion. They 
had offsetting loophole closers, for a net tax reduction of $187 
billion.

Anybody who is listening can reality test. Just go to your mailbox. 
Have you gotten a little check from the U.S. Treasury representing a 
tax cut as part of a stimulus package? Millions of Americans have, and 
millions more will. That is part of this $194 billion of tax reduction 
that has occurred with Democrats running both Houses, despite claims of 
our colleagues on the other side that we were going to have the biggest 
tax increase ever.

We all know some of the things that are happening in this economy. 
One is that gasoline prices are soaring. I filled up my car last week. 
I have a 1999 Buick. I know people think all Senators have limousines 
and drivers. Not me. I have a 1999 Buick that I drive myself. I filled 
it up last week, $52.19. The price of gasoline has soared.

In January of 2001, gas was $1.47 a gallon; in May of 2008, $3.79. We 
are hearing by Memorial Day gas average $4 nationwide. We have 
addressed that in this budget by investing in energy, creating green 
jobs, reducing dependence on foreign oil, and strengthening the 
economy.

We have provided for energy tax incentives in this budget. We have 
provided for $2.8 billion over the President's budget for energy to 
provide for alternative sources of energy, homegrown sources of energy 
so we are less dependent on foreign oil. We have also created an energy 
reserve fund to invest in clean energy and the environment. But we know 
skyrocketing gas prices are not our only problem.

We also know if we look at what is happening to education, we are 
falling behind our global competition. This is one metric to look at 
that, the number of engineering degrees in China and the number of 
engineering degrees in this country. The red line is China's 
engineering degrees. You can see they are absolutely soaring. There are 
over 350,000 a year graduating as engineers in China. In this country, 
we are down here at about 75,000 engineering graduates. Engineering is 
critical to future economic growth. We know that. So that has to be a 
concern. Here, China is now graduating 350,000 engineers a year; we are 
in the 75,000 range. That is something we have to pay attention to. 
Obviously, I have used one example. There are many others.

This budget resolution invests in education to generate economic 
growth and jobs, to prepare our workforce to compete in a global 
economy, to make college more affordable, and to improve student 
achievement. We have provided for education tax incentives to encourage 
people to go to college. We have provided $5.5 billion over the 
President's budget in discretionary funding for education, and we have 
created an education reserve fund for school construction and for the 
reauthorization of the higher education legislation.

It doesn't stop there. We also have serious infrastructure issues in 
this country. Here is a picture of the dramatic collapse of the bridge 
on 35-W between Minneapolis and St. Paul last year. I am acutely 
familiar with this bridge because when my wife was in


medical school, I went across that bridge many times a week. Can you 
imagine the absolute horror of the people who were on that bridge? Here 
are the cars of people who were on that bridge when it fell out from 
underneath them. This was at rush hour last year, one of the most 
heavily used bridges in the State of Minnesota.

This budget seeks to address infrastructure by providing targeted 
investments to repair crumbling roads and bridges, improve mass 
transit, expand airports and schools. It creates a reserve fund to 
allow for major infrastructure legislation. It provides $2.5 billion 
more than the President for key discretionary transportation accounts. 
It fully funds highways, transit, and increases funding for the Airport 
Improvement Program.

This budget resolution also deals with other critical national 
priorities, including fully funding the defense requests of the 
President. The President has asked for $2.9 trillion over the next 5 
years. This budget provides $2.9 trillion. We also provide $3.3 billion 
more for our veterans health care than the President. The President has 
called for $44.9 billion over a 5-year period. We have adopted the 
independent budget, which is a budget that was put together by the 
veterans organizations to more fairly reflect the needs we see coming 
because of veterans coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan. We have 
allocated $3.3 billion more than the President for that purpose. We 
think we owe these veterans the high-quality care they were promised.

All of us who have been to our VA hospitals, who have been to Walter 
Reed, are acutely aware of the need for more investment in those 
facilities. We have also provided in this budget, in fiscal year 2009, 
$2.8 billion more than the President's budget for law enforcement and 
first responders. Inexplicably, at least to this Senator, the President 
has called for the complete elimination of the COPS Program. The COPS 
Program has put 100,000 police officers on the street, over 200 
officers on the street in my home State of North Dakota. The President, 
in his budget, didn't just call for cutting that program. He called for 
its total elimination. It makes no sense to me. I just had my house 
here broken into while I was back home during the break. I have a 
fellow who rents from me in the basement. He came home from work and 
our place had been broken into. The place was totally trashed. Many of 
his things were stolen. Why we would take police off the street when, 
in jurisdiction after jurisdiction, we are facing heightened criminal 
activity doesn't make any sense.


I am getting to the end. I know my colleague has been riveted 
listening to me talk about these charts. He has only had a chance to 
see them maybe 12 times. I thank him for his patience.

We also have budget enforcement in the budget resolution, 
discretionary caps for 2008 and 2009. We maintain a strong pay-go rule 
that I know my colleague will probably want to comment on. We also have 
a point of order against long-term deficit increases, a point of order 
against short-term deficit increases. We allow reconciliation for 
deficit reduction only. I know this is a place where my colleague will 
agree. I am sure he is pleased that we don't have a reconciliation 
instruction in this conference report for any other purpose, and we 
have no reconciliation instruction for any purpose.

We also have a point of order against mandatory spending on an 
appropriations bill. Again, this is something the Senator will strongly 
support because we have seen the games that were beginning to be played 
when the appropriators figured out they could start to do that. We 
tried to shut it down or at least to create a budget point of order, 
maintain a budget point of order to prevent that practice from 
expanding.

The budget conference report also addresses long-term fiscal 
challenges. I don't want to overstate this because, the truth is, I 
don't believe an annual budget resolution is the place to deal with the 
long-term fiscal challenges facing the country. The annual resolutions 
tend to be done on a partisan basis. Our fiscal challenges are so big, 
so deep, my own conviction is this has to be done with a special 
process, a special procedure.

The Senator, who is the ranking member of the Budget Committee, and I 
have teamed up to offer our colleagues legislation that would create a 
bipartisan task force that would be responsible for coming up with a 
plan to deal with our long-term challenges, our fiscal challenges, the 
imbalance between spending and revenue, and the overcommitments we have 
made on the entitlement programs.

The proposal we have made is very different from what others have 
made because our proposal would require a vote in the Congress, not 
another commission report that sits on a dusty shelf somewhere. That is 
not going to cut it. We need a plan. We need a plan that is bipartisan. 
We need a plan that gets a vote. The Senator and I have a plan to do 
that.

While we are getting ready for that process to occur--and I hope it 
will--we have provided for a comparative effectiveness reserve fund to 
deal with health care, a health information technology reserve fund--
the Rand Corporation has told us we could save $80 billion a year if we 
had information technology widely deployed in the health area, program 
integrity initiatives to crack down on waste, fraud, and abuse in 
Medicare and Social Security, and a long-term deficit point of order to 
guard against legislative initiatives that would increase the long-term 
deficit.

Finally, as I mentioned, Senator Gregg and I have a proposal to 
address these long-term imbalances, a panel of lawmakers and 
administration officials with an agenda of everything being on the 
table, with fast-track consideration, and a requirement that Congress 
must vote. If the members of this task force, at least a supermajority 
of them, were to agree on a plan, that plan would come to Congress for 
an assured vote and a further assurance that there would be a 
bipartisan outcome because we would require not only a supermajority of 
the task force to report a plan but a supermajority in Congress to pass 
it as well.

Before surrendering the floor, I thank Senator Gregg for his many 
courtesies and the very constructive way that he has helped run the 
Committee on the Budget throughout this year. He is a gentleman, a 
person of honor whose word is gold. I deeply appreciate that. I also 
appreciate very much the professionalism of his staff.

I yield the floor.