# None
## `843f2a92b80519ab8e8f727ebf51296f`
`Mr. CANTOR â€” 9 October 2007`

---


Mr. CANTOR. I thank the gentleman.

Along with my colleagues, Mr. Speaker, I too rise with a very heavy 
heart today as we mourn the passing and reflect on the life of our dear 
friend and colleague, Jo Ann Davis. In life, Jo Ann amazed so many of 
us with her determination and her fighting spirit. In politics, as has 
been noted before, she made history, becoming the first Republican 
woman from Virginia to serve in this House. In fighting for everything 
she believed in up until the last day of her bout with cancer, Jo Ann 
taught us how to make every moment on this Earth count. Jo Ann was a 
true gentlelady from Virginia. She was a woman of faith and family who 
had an unshakable commitment to the principles of our Nation's Founders 
and of our Nation's military.

As was indicated by my colleagues before, Jo Ann was a true patriot. 
And though she spent only a mere 10 years in elected office, she left a 
profound imprint on national and State politics. The State of Virginia 
and our country will miss her greatly. All of us talk about the 
experiences and recall with much sadness, but yet appreciation, that we 
did have the time we did with Jo Ann Davis.

I, like many of my Virginia colleagues, served with Jo Ann in the 
Virginia legislature. I had 3 years with Jo Ann. We served together on 
the General Laws Committee in the Virginia House of Delegates. It was 
there that I first saw this incredibly strong woman with a will to make 
sure that she did the right thing regardless.

We had adjoining districts. We shared many of the same community 
interests. Jo Ann was a believer and a promoter of the James River. As 
was noted earlier by my colleague from Virginia (Mr. Scott), she cared 
greatly about the Ghost Fleet there as well as making sure that 
Virginia was no longer a dumping ground for out-of-state trash.

As has been noted, Jo Ann was a great person of faith. I had the 
tremendous fortune of visiting the Land of Israel with Jo Ann and Chuck 
and saw firsthand how much her faith meant to her. Regardless of what 
you say about Jo Ann Davis, I think we can all agree that Jo Ann Davis 
was never concerned about being politically correct. She carried the 
bill to make sure that we recognized the holiday of Christmas and that 
the issue of faith and God was not taken out of the public realm.

Jo Ann spoke her mind when she had opinions about this war in Iraq. 
When it came down to it, she cared about her troops, her constituents, 
her family, and her God. We all will miss Jo Ann tremendously. I want 
to, at this time, also extend to her family, to Chuck, to her two sons, 
her granddaughter, a great deal of sympathy. We will miss her.