# None
## `84a867c885efaadf11993a77674ab4bb`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN â€” 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I am pleased and proud to introduce 
this amendment with a bipartisan group of cosponsors. To state it 
briefly, it extends the authorized end strength of the U.S. Army by 
30,000 over the next 3 years, effective with the commencement of fiscal 
year 2010. It doesn't mandate this increase, but it expands the 
authority of the Secretary of Defense, obviously, with the support and 
authorization of the President of the United States, the Commander in 
Chief, to extend the end strength of the U.S. Army. End strength means 
how many soldiers can the U.S. Army have. Of course, it does this to 
reduce the tremendous stress on the U.S. Army, which is carrying the 
burden of combat in two wars, in Iraq and Afghanistan today, and over 
the next year or 18 months will be in this unique position.

Progress has been made, thank God, in Iraq, and the Iraq Security 
Forces are progressively taking over responsibility for keeping the 
security in their country. The drawdown of American soldiers is 
happening in a methodical and responsible way, and I again express my 
appreciation to President Obama that it is happening in that way. At 
the same time, we are increasing our troop presence in Afghanistan. 
Bottom line: The demand for members of the U.S. Army on the battlefield 
over the next year, 18 months, at the outside 2 years, is going up. If 
the supply remains constant, that means the stress on every soldier in 
the U.S. Army and his or her family will not be reduced. As a matter of 
fact, it will go up. The term for this--which I will get to in a 
minute--in the Army is ''dwell time.''

This is an amendment that began with members of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee, and a comparable amendment in the House Armed 
Services Committee, recognizing, as we all do, the tremendous stress 
that our Army is under, the extraordinary job they are doing in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

This is really the next great generation of the American military. 
But we see in it some tough statistics: the increase in mental health 
problems, the increase in divorces of members of the service, and, 
worse, of course, the increase in suicides.

There are many things we have supported in this Senate and the 
Congress--and the administration has--to respond to each one of those 
problems. But in a way, the most direct thing we can do is to increase 
the size of the U.S. Army so there is less pressure on every soldier in 
the Army, in this sense. Every time we add another soldier to the U.S. 
Army--and we are talking about authorization to add 30,000 more--it 
means that much more time every other member of the U.S. Army can spend 
back at base retraining, preparing and, most important of all, spending 
time with their families.

As I know the Presiding Officer knows--and I know the President of 
the United States knows it too--the good news is that the Secretary of 
Defense, Bob Gates, who has done and is doing an extraordinary job for 
our country with, of course, the support and authorization of President 
Obama, yesterday announced that he would be temporarily increasing the 
Active-Duty end strength of the U.S. Army by 22,000 soldiers over the 
course of the next 3 years.

I cannot sufficiently express my words of appreciation for Secretary 
Gates's decision. He acted by employing the emergency authority he has 
in an authorization of the use of force and a built-in statutory waiver 
he has up to 3 percent of existing end strength to expand the size of 
the Army. This amendment, which had been planned,


and was in the committee before this great action by Secretary Gates 
yesterday, is now before us, and I am honored to offer this amendment 
with a bipartisan group of cosponsors who are listed on this amendment 
as a way to do two things: The first is that it literally increases 
from 547,000 to 577,000-plus the authorized end strength of the U.S. 
Army, and to leave that authority there in case there is a need that 
Secretary Gates and the President see in the coming 3 years to raise 
the number.