# None
## `84b226a2cf70e8966bc3e50b0a6a2074`
`Mr. DENT â€” 29 October 2007`

---


Mr. DENT. Madam Speaker, I just want to follow up on what my friend 
Mr. Bishop of New York has just said.

We all learned about Lieutenant Michael Murphy's bravery. And, of 
course, last week, as was just stated, he received the Congressional 
Medal of Honor from President Bush on October 22.

I also want to share with you an experience over the weekend prior to 
the


Penn State/Ohio State game on Saturday evening. We had a ceremony on 
the field of Beaver Stadium, 110,000 people. Of course Lieutenant 
Murphy is a Penn State alumnus and graduated from the university in 
political science, as I did about 17 years earlier. And we had a 
ceremony. It was touching to be with his parents, Dan and Maureen, to 
recognize his gallantry, his bravery. As Abraham Lincoln said, he had 
given that ''last full measure of devotion.'' But we joined his parents 
on the field, myself along with our colleagues, Tim Murphy of 
Pennsylvania, Bill Shuster of Pennsylvania and Todd Platts of 
Pennsylvania. We escorted them on the field, along with the president 
of the university, Graham Spanier. And just prior to the playing of the 
national anthem, which was dedicated in memory of Lieutenant Murphy, 
the university presented a certificate that read: ''Pennsylvania State 
University recognizes Lieutenant Michael Murphy as the recipient of the 
Medal of Honor, for his gallantry and bravery, serving as a United 
States Navy SEAL while under enemy attack in Afghanistan. Lieutenant 
Murphy represents the highest ideal of the university as an alumnus and 
patriot.''


And, again, I would just like to share with my colleagues from New 
York, and certainly all Americans, the sense of deep loss we feel for 
the Murphy family and so many others who have paid the ultimate price 
in this war, in both Afghanistan and Iraq.
