# AMERICAN HEALTH CARE
## `84cded5d053dbb0031ee9e7292283776`
`Mr. BURGESS â€” 15 January 2008`

---


Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I come to the House floor tonight to 
talk, like I often do, a little bit about health care. And this is the 
first day that the Congress is back in session after the December 
recess. And legitimately, someone might ask is it maybe a little early 
to begin this type of discussion. But the reality is, since we didn't 
finish our work in the last year, it is entirely appropriate for us to 
begin this year talking about some of those same things that were left 
undone at the end of 2007. Specifically, the reauthorization of the 
State Children's Health Insurance Program. An 18-month extension was 
passed at the end of the last Congress. I was grateful for that. I 
voted in favor of that. But the reality is this Congress should do its 
work and reauthorize this program for the full 10 years as it was 
intended when the reauthorization was up last September.

We had a lot of opportunities to do this in my committee, the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce, but we failed to have a markup in 
subcommittee. We had a markup in full committee that was little more 
than a charade. We brought a very bad bill to the House floor in 
August. It was passed, but was not taken up by the Senate because the 
bill was so flawed.

Then we had the Senate bill come to the House floor and it was a new 
bill, not a conference committee report. We had ample opportunity to 
debate that and take it back to committee and have a subcommittee 
hearing and subcommittee markup, a full committee hearing and a full 
committee markup, but we chose not to do that. We brought that same 
bill to the floor and voted on it. The House passed because they have a 
majority on the other side, and the President vetoed it and the veto 
was sustained.

The same bill was brought up a second time in early October. The same 
result. The bill was passed, and the bill was vetoed and the veto was 
sustained.



In the interim, many of us worked to try to overcome some of the 
obstacles to passage for this bill because we felt this was the correct 
thing to do. But the reality was that politics trumped policy. And at 
the end of the day, the best we could muster, at the end of December, 
at the very last minute, was to pass an 18-month extension.

Madam Speaker, perhaps I should be grateful for that, because with an 
18-month extension we will be past the next Presidential election 
before we are forced to look at this bill again. But I hope this 
Congress does not take that tactic. I hope this Congress takes 
seriously its obligation to study this problem and find out where the 
difficulties occurred last time and see if we can't come to the floor 
with a bill that could be broadly supported by both sides of the aisle. 
I think that is a possibility. But the reality, again last fall, some 
people thought the politics were more important than the policy. And 
the end result, well, we saw what the end result was.

The same thing happened with our Medicare proposals. We have every 
year this mad scramble at the end of the year. If Congress doesn't do 
something because of the odd formulas by which we pay physicians in 
this country, physicians that we have asked to take care of our 
Medicare patients, but we have a very odd formula by which we reimburse 
those physicians. And as a consequence, every year at the last minute 
we are left scrambling, seeing if we can't do something. It is called 
the physician fix. It is almost like something that will happen on the 
winter solstice every single year, because if we don't do something by 
January 1, massive pay cuts are administered to the physician corps in 
this country. Again, the very physicians whom we have asked to take 
care of some of our sickest and most complex patients, and these 
physicians this past year faced a 10 percent pay cut.

Now, at the last minute, we did do something to forestall the pay 
cut. We passed a rather modest bill to give a one-half percent positive 
update to physicians who take care of Medicare patients. But we only 
did it for 6 months' time, which means we literally kicked the can down 
the field. And the reality is we will have to face this again in June. 
And guess what? The deeper we go into this year, the more politics will 
take over, because it is a Presidential election year, and it is a 
Presidential election year the likes of which this country has not seen 
since 1952, or perhaps even 1928, when both sides are running for 
essentially what is an open seat in the United States Presidency.

Well, I did come to the floor tonight because I wanted to have a 
candid conversation about health care. I think many in this Congress 
know I had a life before Congress. I was actually a practicing 
physician for 25 years back in my home State of Texas. So I feel I can 
approach this problem from both the provider level, on the basis of 
that 25 years in practice, as well now as the policymaking level, the 
legislative level, because obviously we do deal with a lot of health 
care here on the floor of the House of Representatives.

I want to talk in some greater detail about the issues pertaining to 
Medicare, and I will get to that, but let me step back and talk about 
where the status of health care is in this country, because when you 
watch the Presidential debate, it seems everyone is talking about 
health care. Perhaps that is a good thing. In reality, the conflict in 
Iraq is not as divisive as it was a year ago. And as a consequence, you 
hear less talk about this country's involvement in Iraq. And as a 
consequence, you hear more talk about domestic issues. Health care and 
the economy have replaced some of the rhetoric that we heard during the 
2006 fall election and some of the rhetoric that we heard on the floor 
of the House a scant year ago regarding this country's foreign policy. 
In reality, that is a good thing.

It is a strange phenomenon when this country is prevailing in a 
conflict that we stop talking about it. I can't think of any other time 
in American history when that was the mindset. Nevertheless, that is 
what is occurring now. Again, as a consequence, we are talking a good 
deal more about health care.

When you hear the talk about health care out on the campaign trail, 
you recognize there are some fairly different ideas that are out there 
and being talked about. And it is not that one person has any quarter 
on the best ideas, but it certainly lays the issue at the feet of the 
American people that there are very different ways of dealing with this 
problem, very different ways of setting the goal, very different ideas 
about what the goal should be, and obviously very, very different ideas 
about how to accomplish that.

In fact, there is a lot of discussion about should we talk in terms 
of reform of our system of health care or is, in fact, the situation 
beyond the reform and we need to talk about actually transforming our 
method of health care in this country. And we will hear that debate 
play out. We will hear talk about things like mandates and universal 
coverage. Those are debates we should have at the national level, and 
those are debates where there should be broad participation.

Madam Speaker, we lost a very good friend in Texas at the end of 
December. Ric Williamson was the chairman of our Texas Department of 
Transportation. He died rather suddenly at the end of year, an 
individual who was younger than I am; so needless to say, it was 
unexpected. During the memorial service that was held for Mr. 
Williamson later that week, a lot of discussion of how he had been a 
State legislator before he took the position with the Texas Department 
of Transportation, and many of his friends and former colleagues got up 
to talk about Ric Williamson's life. And almost to a person they talked 
about how Ric Williamson regarded politics as a full contact sport. 
That is you went at it with everything you had, but you do it openly. 
You do it in the committee room. You do it in the light of day. You 
don't do it behind closed doors in some secret conference in the middle 
of the night and cut a deal one side with the other.


That is what this debate should be. It may be hard. We may come at 
each other again with full body contact in this debate, but it should 
be done on the floor of the House. It should be done on the floor of 
the committee rooms and not in a back room where a deal is cut at the 
last minute.

Many options face us in this country. And again, we will hear a great 
deal of debate about things like universal coverage and mandates. We 
will hear a great deal about things like do we in fact craft policies 
that people actually want, or do we decide what policies people want 
and then administer them accordingly.

But, Madam Speaker, freedom is the foundation of life. In my home 
State of Texas, that is very much the case. We thrive on unlimited 
options. Two years ago when we had the great Medicare part D debates, I 
remember at first there was a lot of criticism that no one will sign up 
to deliver these plans. There will be no plans. There will be a default 
government plan.

So guess what happened? In my home State of Texas, we had 45, 46, 47 
companies sign up to provide these drug plans. And then we were told 
there were too many choices. The reality is Americans thrive on 
choices. And choices are what this debate, in my opinion, a lot of what 
this debate should be about. It is what has made this country great. 
And, in fairness, it is what has made, at least from a scientific 
basis, the health care in this country the envy of the world.

Well, again, the same kinds of options are going to be out there 
facing Americans during the debates, and I urge them to pay attention 
at every level. I know I must direct my remarks to the Chair, Madam 
Speaker, but if I could speak directly to the American people, I would 
encourage them to pay a great deal of attention to what is talked 
about, who is offering what, are they believable, and, in the end, do 
we think anything will really change no matter how many times they 
mention the word.

When it comes to innovation, the United States of America is 
undisputably the world's leader. In the last 25 years, 17 of the past 
25 Nobel Prizes in medicine have been awarded to American scientists 
working in labs. That is a phenomenal record. Four out of the six most 
important discoveries of the last 25 years have occurred in this 
country, things like advanced scanning techniques, things like statin 
drugs to lower cholesterol, things like coronary artery stints and 
bypasses,


things that have extended life to citizens who 30 years ago, quite 
frankly, there might not have been any help, there might not have been 
any hope.

Now, innovations can improve health and life expectancy. It certainly 
does not mean that can't improve on a good thing, that we step back and 
rest on the accomplishments that are already there. But it certainly 
means in the environment that we provide in this country, quite 
honestly an environment that tolerates uncertainty from time to time, 
an environment that rewards risk-taking from time to time, that 
environment is a good thing for the furtherance of the science of 
medicine and ultimately a good thing for health care in this country.

Madam Speaker, one of the lead articles in this week's New England 
Journal of Medicine, and I apologize, I have forgotten the author's 
name. I just read it briefly on my way up here this morning, but it 
talked about how doctors now need to be prepared for a patient coming 
into their office and saying, I just had extensive genetic testing done 
on my own at a low cost, and now I have some information about my own 
human genome, and I would like you to help me interpret that.



Indeed, that day has arrived. And doctors in this country do need to 
be aware of these changes and do need to be prepared to answer their 
patients' questions and provide insight and direction where insight and 
direction occur, and be able to provide the type of environment that 
will allow continued learning about this new science that has just 
arrived on our doorstep.

Two companies now offer genetic testing, genomic testing, more 
appropriately, simply taking a swab of the inside of a cheek and 
sending it off to a company and waiting a few weeks and they come back 
and tell you all kinds of things about what your genomic makeup is.

Madam Speaker, when I think back to when I first entered the doors of 
Parkland Hospital in July of 1977, I would have never believed, never 
believed that this type of technology would be available in my 
lifetime, let alone that this type of technology would be available for 
a reasonable cost, and such a reasonable cost that people just simply 
elect to have it done to find out a little bit more about themselves 
and perhaps underscore some risk factors that they already knew were 
there and perhaps alleviate some concern about risk factors that may 
not carry the weight that the patient thought they did.

It's a phenomenal time that we've entered into, truly a 
transformational time in medicine.

And it has happened before. During the last century, I can think of 
three times when the scientific advances were so rapid and so solid, 
and at the same time, there was so much social change brought by bodies 
that legislate, bodies that govern, that the practice of medicine was 
forever changed.

Look what happened back around 1910. We were coming from a time where 
blistering, burning and bleeding were thought to be the peer-reviewed, 
the evidence-based proper treatments to administer to patients who were 
in distress. And very abruptly, the world changed. And the world 
changed because we found out more about the practice of anesthesiology. 
The world changed because we found out a little bit about blood-
banking. The world changed because we found out a great deal more about 
the science and manufacture of vaccines. And then at the same time when 
all of that science was consolidating in the practice of medicine, we 
had the Flexner Commission and subsequently the Flexner Report 
commissioned by the United States Congress. And those activities now 
administered more at the State level; but suddenly we had that 
consolidation of medical school curricula across the country. Medical 
schools used to be able to teach all manner of things. Suddenly, they 
were conscripted or somewhat conscribed in what they could teach, but 
they began to teach evidence-based scientific fact in the medical 
schools. And it was just at the right time, because the scientific body 
of information was changing very rapidly.

And if we fast forward to the middle of the 1940s, a country at war, 
10 or 12 years before, Sir Alexander Fleming had found an unusual 
curiosity in his laboratory petri dish: a penicillin mold could inhibit 
the growth of bacteria. Well, that was an astounding discovery, but it 
was really little more than a laboratory curiosity until an American 
company came up with a method of producing large quantities of this 
substance that inhibited bacterial growth, and thus began the modern 
pharmaceutical industry in this country. But it was a good thing, 
because we were a country at war. And, indeed, that infection-fighting 
antibiotic went from a laboratory curiosity that was intensely labor 
intensive to produce and intensely expensive to administer, and it went 
to something that was available to the average person in this country. 
And, indeed, antibiotics were available to treat our soldiers who were 
injured during the landing at Normandy, and I dare say many life and 
limb were spared because of the availability and the inexpensive 
availability of that antibiotic.

Another rather astounding scientific accomplishment that occurred at 
the same time, cortisone had been discovered several years before but 
cortisone was not commercially available. The way they got cortisone 
back then was to extract it from the adrenal gland of an ox. Well, if 
the ox was not anxious to give up their adrenal gland, you can imagine 
that was a pretty labor-intensive process.

But an individual that we honored on the floor of this House during 
the last Congress, Dr. Percy Julian, a Ph.D. biochemist, came up with a 
way of producing cortisone from a plant precursor, from a soybean 
precursor. Again, same situation: suddenly you had a medicine that was 
profoundly useful, but only in limited application because it was so 
expensive and so hard to obtain in the amounts necessary to treat a 
patient, and now suddenly it was readily available and it was available 
at a very low cost because it now could be mass produced.

Well, these two striking phenomena occurred in the 1940s. And what 
else happened in the 1940s? Again, we're a country at war. The 
President wanted to prevent an inflationary spiral, or an inflationary 
cycle; so he enacted wage and price controls. Employers wanted to keep 
their employees working. They didn't want someone else stealing their 
employees away, because employees were at a premium. The vast majority 
of Americans were off involved in fighting the war. So employers came 
up with the idea of maybe let's offer some fringe benefits, health 
insurance, retirement benefits. And wait a minute. Don't think we can 
do that because of the wage and price controls. But a court case 
ensued, as so oftentimes happened, and the Supreme Court ruled that 
indeed these benefits could be offered, and not only were they not in 
violation of the wage and price control statutes, but they also could 
be administered as pre-tax expenses. So suddenly we had the vast social 
change of employer-derived health insurance arriving rather suddenly in 
the 1940s; and at the same time you, doctors, for the first time in the 
history of medicine had a cheap, inexpensive way of combating infection 
and treating people with other inflammatory conditions with cortisone.

Again, fast forward to the 1960s. Big changes were on the horizon. In 
fact, in 1945, President Roosevelt died of malignant hypertension, died 
of a stroke.

In the mid-1960s we were beginning to develop medicines that treated 
accelerated hypertension, or malignant hypertension. We were developing 
medicines that could treat psychoses. We were developing the first 
medicines that were now known as antidepressants; a lot of changes on 
the horizon.

And what else changed in the mid-1960s? For the first time, the 
Federal Government got involved in a big way, in a big way, in paying 
for health care with the passage of Medicare in 1965 and, subsequently, 
Medicaid thereafter. And now we're at a time in our country's history, 
where almost 50 cents out of every health care dollar that's spent 
originates right here on the floor of the House of Representatives, 
because of the vast expansions of the expenditures in Medicare, 
Medicaid, VA system, Federal prison system, Indian Health Service, a 
lot of different ways where the Federal Government has a participatory 
role in health care, one that quite frankly was never envisioned 40 
years ago.



So the world indeed has changed because of some of the social changes 
that was brought about by changes in this Congress.

Well, I submit, Madam Speaker, that the world of medicine is on the 
brink of another such transformational change. I've already alluded to 
the changes that are going to happen in the realm of genomic medicine, 
a lot of advances in the types of scanning that are available, the 
types of imaging that are available. Medical care in this country is 
going to become a great deal more personalized with the development of 
genomic medicine. It is of necessity going to be more participatory, 
but at the same time more preventive. And these are good things. These 
are reasons to make one excited about a career in health care and in 
some ways I'm envious of the young people today who look up from their 
desk in high school or college and say, I want to do that; I want a 
career in health care. I know it takes a long time. I know the 
government's interfering at a lot of different levels, but I want a 
career in health care because it's so exciting. And there's still that 
basic altruistic feeling inside of a lot of us in health care that we 
want to do that because it's the right thing to do.

Well, we are on the cusp of a true transformational time in health 
care in this country. Now, can Congress properly interact with that 
transformation as it occurs? It's very difficult, and our history is 
not great in that regard because Congress is inherently a transactional 
body. We take money from here and we move it over here. We create 
winners and losers in this system. And all too often the transactional 
can be the enemy of the transformational. And it is our job, our job, 
every one of us who sits here in a seat in this House of 
Representatives, to ensure that our transactional bias does not 
interfere with the transformation as it's occurring under our very 
feet.

Congress can't legislation the transformations going on in health 
care. It's happening anyway. It's happening whether we want it to or 
not. But Congress can certainly interfere with that transformation if 
we don't set the proper regulatory tone, if we don't provide the proper 
liability environment, if we don't provide the proper incentives. 
Congress can actually be the enemy of transformation.

And, Madam Speaker, there are several more things that I want to 
cover this evening. But I see I'm joined by one of my colleagues, one 
of my colleagues in the House of medicine as well as one of my 
colleagues in the House of Representatives. And I would like to yield 
to the gentleman from Georgia such time as he may consume to likely 
address the issue of medical liability, because that is a big aspect of 
when we talk about health care reform in this country. It's a big part 
of the equation. So I'll yield to my friend from Georgia.