# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `85270bd7ecac878de3a023a8aad09ee2`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am thinking about a teddy 
bear that is in my office, and I think about it because I remember 
going to a funeral when a mother placed a teddy bear and a red fire 
truck in the coffin of her young fallen hero, a member of the United 
States military that lost his life in Iraq.

No, it is not the Iraq Caucus that is running this very poor and 
devastating agenda of this White House. Rather, I would like to say 
that I am proudly a member of the Iraq Caucus. And I thank Mr. 
McGovern, the Speaker of the House, Mr. Obey, and Mr. Murtha for 
understanding that our children are dying and that we must do something 
that faces the fact that our troops have won the victory. So I hope 
that we will debate H.R. 930 that says there has been a military 
success but this is a devastatingly wrong political mission that we are 
on.

The President has to listen. This is 90 days plus 180 days, 9 months 
to redeploy. That's fair. We will fund our troops. That's fair. It is 
time now to bring our troops home because we love our children and we 
love America.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2237, the ''Iraq 
Redeployment Act.'' I rise in strong support of this legislation 
because I am listening, and responding to the will of the American 
people. Last November, Americans went to polls by the millions united 
in their resolve to vote for change. They voted for a new direction and 
a change in the Bush administration's disastrous policy in Iraq. The 
new Democratic majority heard them and responded by passing H.R. 1591, 
the Iraq Accountability Act. The President vetoed the bill, demanding 
instead a continuation of the ancient regime under which the 
Republican-led Congress gave him a blank check to mismanage the 
occupation and reconstruction of Iraq.

Those days are over. No matter how many veto threats the President 
issues, this Congress is not going to give him a blank check to 
escalate and continue the war ad infinitum. It is long past time for 
change in Iraq. It is time for the people and government of Iraq to 
take primary responsibility for their own country. It is time for the 
President to recognize the reality on the ground in Iraq. The time when 
a surge in troops is useful and necessary is past. It is now time to 
redeploy our troops and launch a diplomatic surge for national and 
political reconciliation in Iraq. H.R. 2237 will help achieve this goal 
and that is why I support the measure.

Mr. Speaker, there is no more important issue facing the Congress, 
the President, and the American people than the war in Iraq. It is a 
subject upon which no one is indifferent, least of all members of 
Congress. The Framers understood that while the military does the 
fighting, a nation goes to war. That is why the Framers lodged the 
power to declare war in the Congress, the branch of government closest 
to the people. They knew that the decision to go to war was too 
important to be left to the whim of a single person, no matter how wise 
or well-informed he or she might be.


Four years ago, President Bush stood under a banner that proclaimed 
''Mission Accomplished.'' If the mission was to further place our 
troops in harm's way at the hands of insurgents and sectarian violence, 
then it is mission accomplished. After spending more than $400 billion 
dollars sacrificing the lives of 3,381 of America's finest citizen-
soldiers, what have we accomplished and where are we headed?

I cannot support the President's waging of a war that has no clear 
direction, does not meet the benchmarks that the President set, and has 
no visible target.

Four years after launching the invasion, conquest, and occupation of 
Iraq, the evidence is clear and irrefutable: the preemptive invasion of 
Iraq, while a spectacularly executed military operation, was a 
strategic blunder without parallel in the history of American foreign 
policy. This is what can happen when the Congress allows itself to be 
stampeded into authorizing a president to launch a preemptive war of 
choice.

It is time to change our strategy in Iraq. It is time to engage the 
key stakeholders in the Middle East and make real strides towards 
securing a just and lasting peace in Iraq and for the Iraqi people. And 
most important, bring our troops home so they can be reunited with 
their families, friends, and neighbors.

That is why, Mr. Speaker, in February of this year I introduced H.R. 
930, the ''Military Success in Iraq and Diplomatic Surge for National 
and Political Reconciliation in Iraq Act of 2007.'' Title I of my 
legislation, the ''Military Success in Iraq Act of 2007'' (M-S-I-A) or 
''Messiah,'' offers an honorable deliverance from Iraq. Let me explain.

In October 2002, the Congress authorized the President to use 
military force against Iraq to achieve the following objectives:

1. To disarm Iraq of any weapons of mass destruction that could 
threaten the security of the United States and international peace in 
the Persian Gulf region;

2. To change the Iraqi regime so that Saddam Hussein and his Baathist 
party no longer posed a threat to the people of Iraq or its neighbors;

3. To bring to justice any members of al Qaeda known or found to be 
in Iraq bearing responsibility for the attacks on the United States, 
its citizens, and interests, including the attacks that occurred on 
September 11, 2001;

4. To ensure that the regime of Saddam Hussein would not provide 
weapons of mass destruction to international terrorists, including al 
Qaeda; and

5. To enforce all relevant United Nations Security Council 
resolutions regarding Iraq.

Every one of these objectives has long been accomplished. Iraq does 
not possess weapons of mass destruction. Saddam Hussein has been 
deposed, captured, and dealt with by the Iraqi people. The American 
military has caught or killed virtually every member of al Qaeda in 
Iraq that was even remotely responsible for the 9/11 attack on our 
country. Last, all relevant U.N. resolutions relating to Iraq have been 
enforced. In other words, every objective for which the use of force in 
Iraq was authorized by the 2002 resolution has been achieved.

Mr. Speaker, since the objectives which led Congress to pass the 2002 
Authorization to Use Military Force (AUMF) have been achieved, I 
believe the authorization to use that military force expires 
automatically. My legislation affirms this proposition. Additionally, I 
believe, and my legislation provides, that it is the Congress that is 
the ultimate arbiter as to whether the objectives set forth in a 
congressional AUMF have been achieved.

Mr. Speaker, where a Congressional authorization to use military 
force has expired, the President must obtain a new authorization to 
continue the use force. My legislation requires the President to do 
that as well. Finally, my bill requires that if the Congress does not 
vote to reauthorize the use of force in Iraq within 90 days after 
determining that the objectives set forth in the 2002 AUMF have been 
achieved, all American armed forces in Iraq must be redeployed out of 
Iraq. Thus, under my legislation, an up-or-down vote must be held by 
the House and Senate to continue waging war in Iraq.

I am not talking about ''cutting and running,'' or surrendering to 
terrorists. And I certainly am not talking about staying in Iraq 
forever or the foreseeable future. The Armed Forces won the war they 
were sent to fight. Their civilian leadership has not succeeded in 
winning the peace. That is why the United States should surge 
diplomatically and politically.

Title II of H.R. 930, the ''Diplomatic Surge for Political and 
National Reconciliation in Iraq Act,'' implements 12 of the most 
important recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. Significantly, it 
creates a high-level Special Envoy for National and Political 
Reconciliation in Iraq (SENPRI). This Special Envoy would consist of 
individuals like former Secretary of State Colin Powell, Madeleine 
Albright, or James Baker who would undertake the peaceful 
reconciliation of the major stakeholders in a free and democratic Iraq, 
particularly the Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds.

All 6 of Iraq's neighbors--Iran, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, 
and Kuwait--have an interest in a stabilized Iraq because


as the Iraq Study Group report makes clear, none of these countries 
wants to live with an Iraq that, after our redeployment, becomes a 
failed state or a humanitarian catastrophe that could become a haven 
for terrorists or hemorrhages millions more refugees who will stream 
into neighboring countries.

Mr. Speaker, every day when I walk into my office I am reminded of 
the courageous young men and women who have given their lives in 
service to our Nation. Outside my office I have displayed a poster-
board that displays the names and faces of those who made the ultimate 
sacrifice. The poster-board is nearly full. I do not want to start 
another board.

That is why I rise in strong support of H.R. 2237. This legislation 
significantly reduces the U.S. military presence in Iraq over a 9 month 
period. The legislation does not abandon the Iraqi people. On the 
contrary, it recognizes the need to complete our mission by training 
Iraqi military forces and providing Special Forces to continue to 
pursue al-Qaeda, Osama bin Laden, and destroy terrorist networks 
working out of Iraq. The bill also provides the full array of non-
military assistance for Iraq's economic and political reconstruction.

This legislation recognizes and respects Iraqi sovereignty. This bill 
also respects the decision-making judgment of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
and U.S. military commanders in the field in determining where forces 
leaving Iraq might next be deployed. Finally, this legislation provides 
balance between the security priorities of the United States and Iraq 
to complete key military missions, and the political imperative to 
reduce the presence of U.S. military forces inside Iraq.

For all of these reasons, I strongly support H.R. 2237 and urge all 
members to do likewise.