# IRAQ
## `856c26ca19d537b7f420b0f298a538de`
`Mr. GREGG â€” 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I join my colleagues this morning 
especially in thanking and congratulating the Senator from Colorado and 
the Senator from Tennessee for bringing forward this approach. There is 
no question but that we are going to begin disengaging from Iraq. The 
question is: Is that disengagement going to be done in a manner which 
strengthens our security as a nation or is it going to be done in a 
manner which undermines our security as a nation? Are we going to leave 
an Iraq which is stable enough to govern itself and maintain its own 
security and have a government that functions or are we going to leave 
an Iraq which becomes divided into warring factions which may lead to 
literally a genocidal event with an element of the country which is a 
client state for Iraq, an element of the country which is a safe haven 
for al-Qaida, and an element of the country which is perceived as a 
threat to Turkey?

Clearly, we cannot precipitously abandon the people of Iraq or our 
own national interests in having a stable Iraq. So we need to look for 
a process which is going to allow us to proceed in an orderly way and 
in a way which, hopefully, can start to bring our own Nation together 
as we try to address this most difficult issue.

Looking to the proposal of the Iraq Study Group is, in my opinion, 
the appropriate way to proceed. It is interesting that today we are 
going to see, I believe, the passage of a supplemental bill which will 
fund our soldiers in the field, which we absolutely have an obligation 
to do, which, after a lot of pulling and tugging and different ideas 
being put on the table, has reached a position which, hopefully, will 
have a consensus vote and will represent a majority which will be able 
to pass that bill and, thus, fund the soldiers in the field in a manner 
which has both sides working together, the Democratic leader having 
endorsed the language and the President having endorsed the language.

But this agreement today which has in it the Warner language, which I 
supported, is a precursor to the next step, and the next step should be 
a broader coalition within our political process of developing a plan 
for disengagement from Iraq that assures the security of the United 
States and the stability of that country. Thus, I think the step which 
is being proposed today by the Senator from Colorado and the Senator 
from Tennessee and is supported by the Senator from Pennsylvania, the 
Senator from Arkansas, the Senator from Utah, and myself is an effort 
to set out a blueprint or a path which we can, hopefully, follow in a 
bipartisan way as we proceed down this road.

The Iraq Study Group did this country an enormous service--former 
Congressman Hamilton and former Secretary of State Baker--in 
extensively


studying the issue and coming back with very concrete and specific 
proposals as to how we can, hopefully, effectively deal with settling 
the Iraq situation.

I congratulate both of these Senators for this initiative. I am happy 
to join in it. I look forward to it being the template upon which we 
build a broader coalition which I hope will be bipartisan and which I 
hope can settle a little of the differences which are so dividing our 
Nation and which will give not only the Iraqi people the opportunity to 
have a surviving, stable government, but will give ourselves the 
direction we need to assure our safety as we move forward in this very 
perilous time confronting terrorists who wish to do us harm.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.