# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `8654dde0f53c1c6cd8a06878751c3810`
`Mr. HOLT â€” 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. HOLT. Madam Speaker, I regret that the House is taking up a 
supplemental funding measure for the war in Iraq without tying that 
funding to a withdrawal requirement. I was in Iraq last month and had 
the chance to speak at length with General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker about the situation in that country. There is no disputing that 
our casualties are down, and that is due in no small part to General 
Petraeus's revised military approach to the conflict. But the purpose 
of the surge wasn't simply to reduce our casualties; it was to give the 
Iraqis time to resolve their political differences via dialogue, not 
car bombs. That has not happened, and there is no reason to believe it 
will happen. Indeed, the only thing Iraq's warring factions seem to 
agree on these days is that they oppose permanent U.S. bases in Iraq. 
This no-strings-attached funding measure will only make matters worse, 
which is why I cannot support it.

I am pleased to be able to support the new GI Bill. For the first 
time in over 60 years, our returning veterans will have a truly robust 
educational benefit waiting for them. We all know how successful the 
original GI Bill was and how much it contributed to fueling our 
country's economic and social progress it the decades after World War 
II. We need to make that kind of investment in our people once again. 
No one can dispute our veterans have earned it and no one can dispute 
the long term benefits our society will reap from implementing a new GI 
Bill. I look forward to seeing it become law.

This bill also provides a desperately needed 13-week extension of 
unemployment benefits for people who are struggling to find work in 
this tough economy. Since last year, the number of Americans seeking 
employment has swelled by 800,000 while the economy has lost 260,000 
jobs.

In addition, the legislation blocks the implementation of dangerous 
Medicaid regulations that the Bush administration has issued which 
would cut $20 billion from Medicaid. I oppose these regulations and 
will continue to fight to protect the Medicaid program and the millions 
of Americans who rely on it for access to health care services.

Finally, the $400 million in funding for science included in the bill 
represents a downpayment in our continued effort to provide a robust 
investment for science, research and development, and innovation. By 
making a strong investment, we will support research that will help 
contribute to the Nation's long term economic growth.