# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `87307e34272cbe06df20efa4414b2780`
`Mrs. CLINTON â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mrs. CLINTON. Mr. President, today, I am introducing the Bridging the 
Gap for Wounded Warriors Act to provide comprehensive solutions to 
problems that have arisen from military bureaucracy's failure to meet 
the medical needs of this generation's wounded warriors as they 
transition from the Armed Services to civilian life.

This is a moment of profound challenge for our country, for our 
military, and for our men and women in uniform. And while there are 
often strong disagreements here in Washington, I hope we can unite 
around our common values and patriotism when it comes to how we treat 
our servicemembers and veterans.

If you serve your country your country should serve you. That is the 
promise our country must keep to the men and women who enlist, who 
fight, and who return home often bearing the visible and invisible 
scars of sacrifice. Sadly, too often in the past several years, that 
promise has been broken: whether it's a lack of up-armored vehicles on 
the ground in Iraq or a lack of appropriate care in outpatient 
facilities at Walter Reed.

Last year, I authored and passed into law the Heroes at Home 
initiative to assist returning servicemembers experiencing the complex, 
diffuse, and life-altering symptoms of traumatic brain injury and other 
mental health difficulties.

This past March, I followed up with the introduction of the Heroes at 
Home Act of 2007, S. 1065, the Restoring Disability Benefits for 
Injured and Wounded Warriors Act of 2007, S. 1064, and the Protecting 
Military Family Financial Benefits Act of 2007, S. 1063, to serve our 
servicemembers and send a message: you will be treated as heroes before 
deployment, during deployment, and upon returning home. You didn't 
offer excuses and do not deserve to be offered excuses by your country.

Finally, Senator Evan Bayh and I introduced the Traumatic Brain 
Injury Access to Options Act, S. 1113, in order to provide a temporary 
and immediate solution to the discrepancy in health care services and 
benefits encountered by TBI patients.

However, a broader and permanent solution is needed to assist all 
members and former members of the Armed Services who have incurred any 
type of combat-related injury. The mistreatment of servicemembers at 
Walter Reed and testimony from recent hearings in both the Senate Armed 
Services and Veterans Affairs Committees have revealed major gaps 
affecting servicemembers, including discrepancies in benefits for 
active duty and medically retired servicemembers; difficulties in 
obtaining needed care for wounded servicemembers transitioning from the 
Armed Services to civilian life; and disparities between the DoD and VA 
disability rating systems.

Although the military, more often than not, offers quality health 
care services, wounded servicemembers often encounter barriers to 
receiving the optimal health benefit. The two major barriers are: (1) a 
confusing array of benefits; and (2) discrepancies between benefits for 
those on active duty versus those who are medically retired.

Recent events at Walter Reed have highlighted the longstanding need 
to overhaul the DoD and VA disability rating systems, which are 
unnecessarily complex and result in delays in payment that hinder 
efforts of wounded servicemembers to support themselves and their 
families. On March 6, 2007, the Chief of Staff of the Army General 
Peter Schoomaker and then-Army Surgeon General Lieutenant General Kevin 
C. Kiley testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee that 
soldiers appearing before the Physical Evaluation Board were ''short-
changed'' and had not received appropriate disability benefits. 
According to the Congressional Research Service, since the enactment of 
the Traumatic Servicemembers Group Life Insurance program at least 45 
percent of claims have been denied. In March 2006 the Comptroller 
General issued GAO Report 06-362: Military Disability System: Improved 
Oversight Needed to Ensure Consistent and Timely Outcomes for Reserve 
and Active Duty Service Members--the Department of Defense did not heed 
the recommendations provided in this report and as a result injured and 
wounded warriors continue to languish in an inefficient and adversarial 
disability system. We must stop short-changing our wounded warriors.

Finally, a blanket overlap of benefits and disability rating reform 
are necessary but not sufficient for addressing the needs of those who 
are wounded. In order to support an all-volunteer force and meet the 
needs of this generation's wounded warriors, it is critical to achieve 
efficient DoD and VA collaboration and coordination of assistance to 
members of the Armed Forces in their transition from Active Duty to 
civilian life. Thus, the duties of the existent VA Office of Seamless 
Transition must be terminated and transferred to a new organizational 
structure that will achieve the long-sought goals of seamless 
transition between the DoD and VA and improved coordination between 
these agencies.

That's why I am introducing the Bridging the Gap for Wounded Warriors 
Act today, to ensure a continuum of care for severely injured 
servicemembers and fix the problems that stymie the transition process. 
I am grateful to have developed this proposal with the Wounded Warrior 
Project, the National Military Family Association, and the Military 
Officers Association of America.

We should provide our wounded warriors with the best care options 
available. This legislation would establish a 2 year blanket overlap of 
active duty and veterans health services and benefits for severely 
injured service
members to facilitate their recovery and help resolve administrative 
problems like those found at Walter Reed. All costs of health care, for 
both active duty and medically retired servicemembers, will be paid for 
by the DoD. The provisions of this section shall take effect for those 
injured on or after October 7, 2001, but eligibility shall not include 
retroactive compensation for payments already made.

We should also create a joint DoD-VA Office of Transition for the 
coordination of assistance to members of the Armed Forces in their 
transition from service in the Armed Forces to civilian life. The 
Office of Transition would absorb the duties of the existent VA Office 
of Seamless Transition as well as the functions and responsibilities of 
applicable offices within the Office of the Secretary of Defense, OSD. 
Leadership of the Office of Transition would consist of a Director and 
Deputy Director, who would both have seats on the Joint Executive 
Committee, JEC. The Secretaries of DoD and VA would have oversight of 
the Office of Transition, although the office would also be required to 
submit mandatory annual reports and biannual briefings to Congress. The 
GAO would also submit a biennial report on the Office of Transition's 
activities, in order to ensure that the Office's progress is not being 
stymied by the DoD or VA.

Further, we should reform the current disability rating system to 
ensure that there is continuity of medical care and no disruption in 
compensation payments made to wounded service
members. My legislation would change the roles of the agencies, so that 
DoD would no longer assign the actual disability rating but would still 
determine fitness for duty and document such a decision in writing, 
while VA would assign final ratings for all service-connected injuries. 
Further, the legislation would repeal the provision in the Omnibus 
Reconciliation Act of 1982 that requires the delay in payment of VA 
benefits until the first day of the second month after they are 
entitled. This provision would eliminate the gap in payments and allow 
servicemembers to continue to support themselves and their families.

Finally, we should do what we can to ensure that both DoD and VA 
medical facilities have the appropriate trained professionals to deal 
with the range of injuries that our wounded servicemembers now incur, 
including


traumatic brain injury, burns, amputations, vision problems, spinal 
cord injuries, and broken and fractured bones. In order to move in that 
direction, my legislation would require the GAO to submit a preliminary 
assessment and final report on the extent to which medical facilities 
of the DoD and VA offer interdisciplinary medical treatment for wounded 
members of the Armed Forces.

Let us all join together in accepting our responsibility as a nation 
to those who serve and resolve to achieve efficient DoD and VA 
collaboration and coordination that is critical for supporting an all-
volunteer force and meeting the needs of this generation's wounded 
warriors.

I ask unanimous consent letters of support for this legislation be 
printed in the Record.