# IN HONOR OF MIKE LIPSKI
## `8833bc3b4e07f57bcdd811b1e9e9467a`
`Mr. PICKERING â€” 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. PICKERING. Madam Speaker, as we begin to wrap up this year's work 
in Congress, I wish to recognize a valued Mississippian who recently 
left my staff to pursue opportunities in the private sector back home 
in Mississippi. Mike Lipski served as my military legislative assistant 
and special projects director, and later, as my Legislative Director 
here in Washington, DC. Mike's heart has always been with his home on 
the Mississippi gulf coast; now he has returned there and taken a 
position as director of sector administration at Northrop Grumman. 
Mike's service to Mississippi and our country spans a lifetime of hard 
work.

Mike's two-decade service in the Navy stretches from his time as a 
surface warfare officer on the USS Oliver Hazard Perry to service as a 
Navy Civil Engineer Corps officer, including time at the Pentagon on 
the staff of the Chief of Naval Operations. He brought to my office 
experience as executive officer of Navy's Engineering Field Activity 
Southeast in Jacksonville, Florida, as well as a stint as a Navy 
Legislative Fellow serving on Senator Trent Lott's National Security 
staff.

On my staff, Mike utilized, promoted, increased, and protected the 
defense community's value, not only for security, but also as an engine 
of the economy. He demonstrated his commitment to the needs of our war 
fighters--past, current, and future--with his work on veterans 
legislation; support and funding for our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan, 
and around the world; and preparation and planning for military 
training and base infrastructure around Mississippi and specifically at 
Meridian's Naval Air Station and our National Guard facilities. He 
served as the point person in my office during the most recent round of 
BRAC, base realignment and closure. He coordinated statewide efforts of 
military and community


leaders to effectively communicate the national mission value of our 
bases and defend them in the face of downsizing and cuts.

In my office, Mike provided calm and reasoned counsel and was a 
trusted advisor and effective implementer of my legislative agenda and 
appropriation priorities. He successfully worked with economic 
development interests to bring new and better jobs to Mississippi and 
implement strategic community development plans at our universities and 
industrial clusters. He has a strong vision for our State and creative 
ideas to reach those goals.

Hurricane Katrina presented unique challenges to all levels of 
leadership in Mississippi, from alderman to Congressman; from mayor to 
Governor. As we coordinated emergency response efforts on all levels 
of government, Mike Lipski served as my liaison to MEMA, Mississippi 
Emergency Management Agency, and slept on a cot at their headquarters 
for several days, when he wasn't on the coast with a satellite phone 
making immediate needs assessments and providing logistical 
coordination and advice. Mike traded his cot and sat-phone for a tie 
and clipboard and returned to Washington where he worked closely with 
me in developing and implementing Katrina reform measures: Federal 
contracting reform, housing and infrastructure policy, Federal relief 
and emergency recovery funding. His knowledge and experience with the 
Corps of Engineers provided a unique resource both during reform and in 
oversight as committees investigated the Government response to 
Hurricane Katrina.


Mike's wife, the former Jill Daria Wiltzius, has stood by him 
throughout his military career and his public service in my office. His 
transfers around the world have provided them both amazing 
international experiences but now Mike has convinced his Wisconsin girl 
to settle in Mississippi. Our State is a better place with the two of 
them as strong and honorable citizens. Jill is an outstanding educator 
and hopes to pursue her Ph.D. now that they are settled in Mississippi. 
I know Mike's family in Long Beach is very proud of him and his 
successful career is a tribute to his parents: John and Eleanor.

Now Mike will have time to sail, canoe, fly fish, and indulge his 
outdoor passions, but I have no doubt he will be integral in rebuilding 
and leading the coast to a full recovery.

Mike Lipski left a formative mark on the shape and operation of my 
office. We will miss his good nature, warm friendship, determined work 
ethic, and dry humor. I am proud of his service and the positive 
difference he has made for our State and the country. I am grateful to 
call him my friend. I thank him for his service to this office and to 
Mississippi and wish him the best of fortune in his new endeavors.
