# REPUBLICAN FRESHMAN PERSPECTIVE
## `88448ffe344c91e984e2aaabbb3bcf97`
`Mrs. LUMMIS â€” 4 June 2009`

---


Mrs. LUMMIS. We have other Members who are not here tonight who I'd 
like to mention. One was mentioned earlier by Mr. Rooney. Duncan 
Hunter, a member of our freshman class from California, quit his job 
after 9/11 to serve in the Marine Corps. He has served three combat 
tours, including two in Iraq and one in Afghanistan. And along with Mr. 
Rooney and Mr. Coffman of Colorado, who took unpaid leave from the 
Colorado State House to serve in the first Gulf War and gave up being 
Colorado State treasurer for a tour of duty in Iraq--and I was Wyoming 
State treasurer at the same time Mr. Coffman was State treasurer and at 
the same time when another of our fellow freshmen, Lynn Jenkins, was 
the State treasurer in Kansas. We were proud of our colleague, Mr. 
Coffman, for leaving his job as Colorado State treasurer to do a tour 
of duty in Iraq. The experience of our servicemen and -women in this 
Congress is invaluable, and I applaud them and appreciate their 
efforts.

I want to call on Mr. Rooney one more time to discuss our specific 
concerns about the issue that prevents all of us from being here 
tonight, that being the fact that an amendment has been placed on a 
military funding bill that is not germane.

Would you care to elaborate further? And then I would like to yield 
to Mr. Thompson.



Well, the bill that we had originally sent to the Senate was just a 
clean war funding bill that the President asked us for and that we 
delivered as a House of Representatives to the Senate.

I did not serve in politics before running for Congress, so all this 
is new. But unfortunately, by the time it came back from the Senate to 
us, it had an additional amendment on it which included funding for the 
IMF, which is basically our borrowing money from somewhere else or 
printing money to loan it to another country. And that might seem 
ridiculous to a lot of people that may be listening, since everybody 
knows that America is going through tough times right now. People in my 
district are really hurting. The middle class needs help. They need tax 
cuts. They need to feel that their job is secure. They need to feel 
that the Federal Government is helping them, not


impeding them. And to think that we are going to borrow or print money 
to send abroad, some of it to people that we might not necessarily want 
to lend money to, and have to put that on the backs of our servicemen 
and -women, because they know that it will be difficult for us as 
Republicans to vote against it, is really, in my opinion, shameful in a 
lot of ways.

I understand there are differences in ideology. There are differences 
in principles about what governing should be. But if we have a clean 
military funding bill, then it should stand on its own. If you have a 
clean IMF bill to loan money to foreign countries, then it should stand 
on its own. The majority is the majority. If it is a good idea, it will 
pass. They have the Congress. They have the White House. Why should it 
be attached to something that has nothing to do with funding our 
soldiers abroad?

I recently got back from Iraq and Afghanistan. Recently I visited 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. And the one thing that impressed me more than 
anything else is the men and women that wear our uniform. They never 
talk about politics. They never talk about policy or how they stand on 
certain issues. They are there to do a job. They are putting themselves 
in harm's way so we can stand here tonight and discuss these issues and 
talk about what we think is best for the future.

To think that politics is being played with the ammunition that goes 
in their guns or the body armor or the vehicles that they drive or 
anything that they have to rely on from us as a Congress to pay for 
what we are sending them there to do is just unconscionable to me. And 
it is something that I hope, as you said earlier, has been delayed, and 
hopefully that delay is felt, continues on to next week, and maybe we 
can reconsider what we are doing and what we talk about. Politics 
should have no place when it comes to funding what we send our men and 
women in uniform to do abroad.

Whether you agree with these wars, whether you agree with the war on 
terror, whether you agree with anything that we are doing, we are 
sending them there. We should give them a clean bill. And as of right 
now, we are not. But maybe, just maybe, cooler heads will prevail and 
we will give them a clean bill for what they are doing and what they 
are serving us for.