# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `8870df1f77c48449e3695e7105e2d915`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 19 May 2009`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I say to my good friend the majority 
leader, I understand he has laid down an amendment to be offered by the 
chairman of the Appropriations Committee, our good friend from Hawaii, 
and Senator Inhofe related to Guantanamo. I am pleased the majority has 
recognized that the President's policy of putting an arbitrary deadline 
on the closing of Guantanamo is a mistake. A first step toward moving 
us in the direction of getting a new policy is to prevent funding in 
this bill or any other bill from being used for the purpose of closing 
Guantanamo. What we need to remember is that Guantanamo is a $200 
million state-of-the-art facility. It has appropriate courtrooms for 
the military commissions we established a couple years ago at the 
direction of the Supreme Court. No one has ever escaped from 
Guantanamo.

We need to think, once again, about the rightness of the policy of 
closing this facility. It presents an immediate dilemma. Among the 250 
or so people who are left there now are some of the most hardened 
terrorists in the world, people who planned the 9/11 attacks on this 
country. We know how the Senate feels about bringing them to the United 
States. We had that vote 2 years ago. It was 94 to 3 against bringing 
these terrorists to the United States. What we need is to rethink the 
policy of closing this facility. If our rationale for closing it is to 
be more popular with the Europeans, I must say we don't represent the 
Europeans. We represent the people of the United States. We have a 
pretty clear sense of how the people in this country feel about 
bringing these terrorists to the United States.

I congratulate our good friends in the majority. They are heading in 
the right direction. We know the President on national security issues 
has shown some flexibility in the past. For example, he changed his 
position on releasing photographs of things that occurred at Abu 
Ghraib. He changed his position on the using of military commissions 
and has now rethought that and opened the possibility that maybe 
military commissions established by the previous administration and 
this Congress are a good way to try these terrorists. He rethought his 
position on Iraq and moved away from an arbitrary timeline for 
withdrawal. We know he has now ordered a surge in Afghanistan led by 
the same people who orchestrated and led the surge in Iraq which was so 
successful. So the President has demonstrated his ability to rethink 
these national security issues.

I am confident and hopeful he will now, getting this clear message 
from both the House and the Senate on the appropriations bill, begin to 
rethink the appropriateness of an arbitrary timeline for the closing of 
Guantanamo.

I fully intend to support this amendment. I hope all Members of the 
Senate will. I thank Senator Inouye and Senator Cochran, who is here, 
for their leadership on this bill. I particularly thank Senator Inhofe, 
who has been one of our leaders on this subject for a long time and 
reminded everyone today that he was down at Guantanamo not too long 
after 9/11 and has been there a number of times. I have been there 
myself. We all know it is a state-of-the-art facility in which the 
detainees are appropriately and humanely treated.

With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor.