# IRAQ AND RELATED ISSUES
## `89866023da147a533b889b56f35e89bf`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I start by telling the Senator from 
Missouri how much I appreciate his leadership on this issue. As the 
ranking member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, he knows 
as well as anyone what is at stake in Iraq and in the global war on 
terror. I know his son, Sam, is a member of the Marine Corps and has 
served in Iraq. I believe he is either back or headed back here very 
soon, so this is a matter in which the Senator from Missouri has a 
personal investment, in addition to the larger investment all Americans 
have in making sure our security is protected to the extent possible. 
That is what it boils down to.

Some say we have to do this for the Iraqis. I suggest, as laudable as 
that is, we need to do this for us. What do I mean by ''this''? I mean 
what the Iraq Study Group--the bipartisan group created to look into 
the challenge of the conflict in Iraq--recommended. They pointed out 
quite clearly that it is in America's vital security interests to leave 
Iraq when we do. Of course, that is the goal we all share. We want to 
leave Iraq, but we must leave Iraq based on conditions where Iraq can 
sustain itself, defend itself, and govern itself.

It is bewildering to see a vote like we saw last Friday in the Senate 
where GEN David Petraeus, the new commander in Iraq, was confirmed 
unanimously by this Senate, yet there are those who say: Yes, we are 
going to confirm you, General, unanimously. We are going do say nice 
things about you and your talents and dedication and patriotism that 
you have demonstrated by your service, but the plan that you are the 
architect of, we are not going to support it. We are going to pass a 
sense-of-the-Senate resolution which, in his own words, undermines his 
ability to be successful in America's ability to protect its national 
security interests by leaving Iraq in a condition that it can sustain, 
govern, and defend itself, and which sends a wrong message to our 
enemies.

The consequences of failure in Iraq are best summed up by the Iraq 
Study Group on page 34. They said that a chaotic Iraq would provide a 
still stronger base of operations for terrorists who seek to act 
regionally or even globally. Al-Qaida will portray any failure by the 
United States in Iraq as a significant victory that will be featured 
prominently as they recruit for their cause in the region around the 
world.

It will surely be a failed state if we leave Iraq before conditions 
on the ground permit the Iraqis to govern, sustain, and defend 
themselves. It will likely lead to a failed state much as Afghanistan 
was after the Soviet Union was run out of Afghanistan in 1979.

What was that condition? We know all too well on September 11, 2001, 
when America was hit by al-Qaida on our own shores, that what happened 
in the interim between the time the Soviet Union left Afghanistan was a 
rise of the Taliban and al-Qaida, including Osama bin Laden, who was 
plotting and planning and training and then exporting terror attacks 
against the United States and against our allies.

It is entirely probable, in my opinion, that if we leave Iraq 
prematurely, before it can sustain, govern, and defend itself, Iraq 
will become another failed state like Afghanistan, another place where 
terrorists can train, recruit, and then export terrorist attacks 
against the United States and our allies.

It is also likely that if we leave Iraq prematurely, it would lead to 
a broader regional conflict, probably involving Syria, Iran, Saudi 
Arabia, and Turkey, and we may have to later return at a greater cost 
to our Nation.

This is another matter to which I don't think the people have paid 
enough attention: to leave Iraq prematurely would lead to massive human 
suffering. The other day, the Judiciary Committee had a hearing on 
Iraqi refugees. Of course, there are brave Iraqis who have worked 
alongside America and our allies to try to restore democracy to that 
country after Saddam's bloodthirsty reign. They are worried, as they 
should be, that if America pulls out, along with our coalition 
partners, before Iraq is able to sustain, govern, and defend itself, 
they will be slaughtered. It will be ethnic cleansing where Shia will 
kill Sunni. It will draw in, likely, the Sunni majority nations such as 
Saudi Arabia to defend the Sunnis against ethnic cleansing.

We are at a crossroads. The choices are not necessarily good ones, 
but they are the choices with which our Nation is confronted. We can 
either stay with the status quo which, frankly, I don't know anyone who 
believes the status quo is working or, No. 2, we can, as some have 
suggested, cut off funding for our troops and result in a precipitous 
withdrawal from Iraq or, No. 3, we can devise a new strategy in an 
effort to succeed where the current strategy has not in Iraq.

I believe the obvious choice is No. 3. If we are going to confirm a 
new Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates, as we have done; if we are 
going to confirm a new general leading coalition forces in Iraq, like 
David Petraeus, as we have done; if we are going to confirm a new 
commander of Central Command, Admiral Fallon, as I am confident we will 
do; we need to ask for their advice, get their advice, and, frankly, 
take their advice. I am afraid this has become far too political and 
not focused, as it should be, on a bipartisan basis, on what is in 
America's strategic and security self-interest.

The Washington Post summed it up in an editorial this way. They said 
legislators need a better way to act on their opposition to the current 
policy than passing a nonbinding resolution that may cover them 
politically but have no practical impact other than


perhaps the negative one suggested by the general--and they are talking 
about General Petreaus. What are the negative impacts? General Petreaus 
made that clear in the nomination hearings before the Senate Committee 
on Armed Services.

Senator McCain asked:




 Suppose we send you additional troops and we tell the 


 troops, while we support you, we are convinced you cannot 


 accomplish your mission, and we do not support the mission 


 that we are sending you on. What effect does that have on the 


 morale of the troops?


General Petraeus:




 Well, it would not be a beneficial effect, sir.


Senator Lieberman:




 A Senate-passed resolution of disapproval for this new 


 strategy in Iraq would give the enemy some encouragement, 


 some feeling that well, some clear expression that the 


 American people are divided?


General Petraeus:




 That's correct, sir.


I understand as well as anybody the reservations that Members of the 
Senate have about the new plan. The question we all have is, Will it 
work? Obviously, there are no guarantees. However, I know there is one 
sure plan for failure that will embolden our enemies, undermine our 
allies, and demoralize our troops, and that is to pass a resolution of 
no confidence in the only plan that has now been proposed for a new way 
forward in Iraq: working with the Iraqi Government, Prime Minister 
Maliki, making it clear there are benchmarks they need to meet; that it 
is their country, and they need to take the lead. We will support them. 
We will help stiffen their spine, particularly when it comes to 
preventing sectarian violence and taking on the militias which have 
ruled the streets in so much of Iraq. But this is the only chance and 
the only alternative that has been offered by anyone, so far, as to the 
way forward.

I make an appeal to our colleagues on the Democratic side of the 
aisle. On November 7, we had an election. As a result of that election, 
Democrats no longer were a minority party but became the majority in 
the Congress, both in the House and in the Senate. While I understand 
that as a minority party frequently we do not have the opportunity to 
set the agenda or to provide the leadership and are left with 
criticizing what the majority party does, my hope would be that the new 
majority would rise to the occasion, would set partisanship aside as 
much as possible, particularly with regard to our national security 
interests, would not focus on the 2008 election or worry about 
individual political outcomes. My hope is the new majority would use 
this as an opportunity to work with the new minority to send a vote of 
confidence and to provide a plan, support for the plan that has been 
drafted by General Petraeus and supported by all our military 
leadership for the possibility of a successful way forward in Iraq.

Frankly, for our friends on the other side of the aisle to merely 
criticize and offer resolutions of no confidence that are not binding 
is not an act of encouragement. It is not an act of patriotism but, 
unfortunately, as General Petraeus said, it will undermine our troops' 
morale and embolden our enemies. We all owe it to the troops who have 
risked their lives, to the families who have paid the ultimate 
sacrifice in defense of freedom and to protect our security, to do our 
very best to work together to try to support a way forward in Iraq 
which has the best chance of success.

My hope is, in the coming days, through this debate, we will agree to 
do that, and we will avoid making political statements that have no 
binding effect and which serve only to embolden our enemies and 
undermine our friends.

I see the distinguished Senator from Arizona on the floor of the 
Senate, and I yield to him.