# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `8a288d6b8dddc2944eb93d4625be4491`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN â€” 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from New York for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, the President says send him the money. Let's be clear. 
This bill provides every penny the President asked for to fund the 
troops in Iraq. It also provides for something the President did not 
ask for: funds to help improve the treatment of our wounded soldiers at 
Walter Reed and other places around this country.

It also provides something that the American people have now insisted 
on but the White House doesn't ask for, and that is accountability with 
respect to the war in Iraq. That is why the President doesn't like the 
bill before us. We know the White House has become an accountability-
free zone. The White House got used to a Congress, the old Republican 
Congress, that gave the President a blank check, money without 
accountability. And this provides funding with accountability. That is 
why they don't like it.

Let us be very clear. If the President vetoes this bill, he will be 
saying ''no'' to ensuring that our troops have the training and 
equipment that they need. If he vetoes this bill, he will saying ''no'' 
to ensuring that we hold the Iraqi Government accountable to the 
benchmarks which the Bush administration and the Iraqi Government have 
said are absolutely necessary to achieve political stability in Iraq. 
If he vetoes this bill, he will be saying ''no'' to those additional 
funds for our wounded soldiers at Walter Reed and for our veterans 
health care system.

He will also be saying ''no'' to the additional funds that we put in 
this bill to the fight against al Qaeda in Afghanistan. Here we are so 
many years after the attacks of September 11, 2001. Al Qaeda remains a 
vibrant organization and Osama bin Laden remains at large; we provide 
funds to go after Osama bin Laden, additional funds; the President will 
be saying ''no'' to that.

And the President, if he vetoes this bill, will be saying ''no'' to 
the overwhelming sentiment of the American people who understand the 
failed policy and say we need to change direction.

Let's change direction. Let's say ''yes'' to this conference 
committee report.

