# THE BUDGET, DEBT AND THE BLUE DOG'S IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY LEGISLATION
## `8a5097be0fc8f023a7532f68f55930f2`
`Mr. CHANDLER â€” 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. CHANDLER. Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to be here with Mr. Scott 
tonight, to be a member of the Blue Dog Coalition, and to hear the 
wonderful presentation by Mr. Cooper of Tennessee who does a tremendous 
job in this Congress, and who is one of the real consciences of the 
people here in Washington. Even though some of the news he has to 
relate to us is not the best of news, the people of this country need 
to hear the truth, and that is what Mr. Cooper so eloquently gives us 
on a regular basis.

I very much enjoyed the opportunity to travel this past week with my 
fellow members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and there are 
several Blue Dogs who are represented on that very important task force 
that we have to try to foster cooperation in a very important alliance 
we have. The alliance that United States has with NATO and


the other 25 countries in NATO is extremely important to our national 
security. I don't think people realize how important it is.

It was a pleasure to have an opportunity to travel with Mr. Scott, a 
newly appointed member to that commission, and Ms. Bean from Illinois 
who is also here with us tonight. I know she will have a few words to 
say in a little while. She was with us on that trip.

You know, when we go abroad like that and we talk with our allies, we 
talk about a lot of things. On this particular occasion, of course, the 
subject continually came up of Iraq and Afghanistan. NATO is helping us 
in Afghanistan. We of course in Iraq don't have as many allies as we do 
in Afghanistan. Some of the countries in NATO have a different view 
about Iraq than they do about Afghanistan, but we are proud to have 
their help in Afghanistan. It is very, very important to us because 
that is an engagement there I think that most of the American people 
are united, that we have to have success, certainly in Afghanistan.

But whatever anybody thinks about that war or about the war in Iraq, 
one thing I believe we can all agree upon is that the taxpayer money 
that is being used for those efforts needs to be used accountably. It 
needs to be accounted for. That certainly has not been the case.

We in the Blue Dog Coalition came out with a plan not too long ago, a 
resolution that would require essentially accountability for the use of 
that money, would make an effort to try to stop the war profiteering 
that we believe is going on, certainly in Iraq. I hope we can set up a 
commission in this government, very much like the Truman Commission of 
World War II, which would look at the expenditure, would actually hold 
this administration accountable for the expenditures in Iraq.

Now, the importance of that I think is pretty obvious for everybody. 
Every dollar that we misspend or waste in Iraq is a dollar that cannot 
be used efficiently to protect our troops, it cannot be used 
efficiently to get the job done over there, and it is also money taken 
away from needed programs and services right here in this country.

I don't need to mention all of those programs one by one. We all know 
what they are, from education, health care, right on down the line. We 
need those dollars, and those dollars need to be spent appropriately.

But we can even go so far, if you can believe this, to apply some of 
that wasted money on the national debt. That is what the Blue Dogs talk 
about all of the time, the national debt in this country.