# None
## `8a710820e0086461a2fef85cb507abaa`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN â€” 19 April 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. I thank the gentleman from California for the time.

Mr. Speaker, whether or not some choose to acknowledge it, we are at 
war with militant Islamists who seek our destruction. Yet some on the 
other side of the aisle today announced that the war is lost in Iraq. 
This comment shows little understanding of the ability and the 
determination of our men and women in the Armed Forces.

Naysayers and those who doubt our Nation's ability to prevail over 
evil have existed throughout the centuries, and it appears that there 
are those who doubt the ability of this century's greatest generation 
to defeat these Islamist militant extremists operating in Iraq.

Our mission is just. The soldier cannot be separated from his 
mission. All I have to do is look to the inspiration of the Parsons 
brothers from my congressional district, who are serving in Iraq. They 
know that we must and indeed we can succeed.

Huber Parsons was with the 101st Airborne for two long Iraq 
deployments. He is currently on his third deployment with the Army 
Stryker Brigade. His twin brother, Bill, has served two tours in 
Afghanistan and two tours in Iraq. And their little brother, Charlie, 
is on his first deployment in Iraq. All three brothers are deployed in 
Iraq right now.

I ask for the Parsons brothers and for all of our brave men and women 
serving our Nation in Iraq that we not put them at increased risk with 
these arbitrary, artificial deadlines.

My stepson, Douglas, and my daughter-in-law, Lindsay, both served in 
Iraq as Marine fighter pilots, and tomorrow Lindsay will be deploying 
to Afghanistan to continue her military service.

Arbitrary deadlines and the consequences of retreating and failure 
are personal issues for me. Establishing arbitrary deadlines for 
withdrawal of our forces before Iraq is stable and secure gives the 
insurgents, as well as the Islamic extremist terrorists, a roadmap, a 
how-to guide, on how to defeat the United States, our Iraqi partners 
and other coalition forces in Iraq. Our troops understand this. Our 
enemies understand this. Our allies understand it; we must as well.

We met with Egyptian leader Mubarak just 2 weeks ago in a bipartisan 
congressional delegation, and this is what he told us: ''Withdrawing 
from Iraq without creating stability will mean that the U.S. will 
suffer and all of us in the region will suffer. I know how these 
terrorists think,'' Mubarak said to us, ''and they will come after you 
and then come after us.''

He continued by saying, ''The way to control Iran is for the U.S. to 
succeed in stabilizing Iraq. Withdrawal of your forces in Iraq without 
making Iraq stable will strengthen Iran and will cause you harm and 
will cause all of us harm.''

Mr. Speaker, we either stand now against the Islamic militant 
jihadists operating in Iraq or have these militants continue to 
threaten our men and women fighting the forces that seek our 
destruction. We cannot leave our troops serving in Iraq or anywhere 
else vulnerable to the whims of armchair generals in Congress.

Support our troops. Reject this motion.