# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `8bee89e9bd2d460d582ec4a68f7389f1`
`Mr. AKAKA â€” 19 December 2009`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I strongly support the Defense 
appropriations conference report for 2010, H.R. 3326. This bill 
provides funding for our troops in Afghanistan, Iraq, and elsewhere. I 
thank the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Appropriations 
Committee, Senators Inouye and Cochran, as well as other committee 
members, for their efforts to develop this vital legislation.

This bill keeps our commitments to our troops and military families. 
The bill provides a 3.4-percent military pay raise, $29.2 billion for 
the Defense Health Program, including $120 million for traumatic brain 
injury and psychological health research. The measure also includes 
$472 million for family advocacy programs which include quality 
childcare, job training for spouses, and expanded counseling for 
families experiencing stress due to deployments.



In order for our military to continue to perform at its best, we must 
continue to provide ample funds for training and readiness accounts. 
This bill provides $154 billion to increase the readiness and training 
of our troops. Funding is being adjusted to ensure that we are training 
for the conflicts of today and those in the future.

Continuing our strong support for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
the bill includes over $23 billion for equipment to be used in the 
region. This includes $6.3 billion to complete procurement of over 
6,600 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected, MRAP, all-terrain vehicles to 
protect our troops; $1.1 billion for High Mobility Multi-Purpose 
Wheeled Vehicles, HMMWVs; and $950 million for the National Guard and 
Reserve equipment accounts.

I am also pleased that this bill includes just under $200 million for 
defense projects in the State of Hawaii including many of the projects 
which I requested. This includes a standoff improvised explosive 
device, IED, detection program, a virtual combat training program, and 
an anti-corrosion effort to extend the life of weapons systems. These 
are examples of programs in which innovators in Hawaii produce systems 
and products which will enhance military capabilities.

In addition to doing right by our troops, this bill also includes 
measures that will help other segments of our country.

Small business represents a vital part of our economy, but many small 
business owners are having difficulties securing loans in today's 
economic climate. This bill includes a measure which will allow the 
Small Business Administration, SBA, to extend enhancements to its loan 
guarantee program which will free up capital by making loans more 
attractive.

The bill also includes an extension of unemployment insurance 
benefits. As many of our citizens continue to navigate a difficult 
labor market, it is vital that we continue to provide benefits for the 
unemployed.

In addition, this bill includes an extension for COBRA subsidies. It 
extends from 9 to 15 months the 65-percent COBRA health insurance 
subsidy for individuals who have lost their jobs. This vital program 
will help those who have lost jobs keep their health insurance.

These are just some of the projects and programs this important bill 
will fund for the 2010 fiscal year. I appreciate the hard work of 
Chairman Inouye, Ranking Member Cochran, and the rest of the 
Appropriations Committee for bringing this conference report before us, 
and I urge my colleagues to support it.