# ISRAEL
## `8c2cb4575e8cb428b0adcd224040fa42`
`Mr. WEINER â€” 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. WEINER. Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to ponder a 
hypothetical. Imagine for a moment that a small town in your district, 
whether you represent a rural or urban district or suburban district 
you can imagine this hypothetical, but it's an unimaginable concept to 
many of us in the United States. Imagine if a town in that district was 
hit by a rocket, just landed out of the sky, launched from a 
neighboring town, or if you're near the border, launched from a 
neighboring country. Imagine for a moment how you would react as an 
elected official in that town, imagine for a moment how you would act 
as a parent of people in that town, imagine how you would act if you 
were government from that town.

Well, for one small town in the southern part of Israel, it's not 
something they need to imagine. Let me show you a map of Israel and 
point to a small town called Sderot. It's right down here near the 
Negev, right along the border of the Gaza Strip.

Sderot is a town of 24,000 people. It is not a wealthy town; it's 
basically a working class town. Like I said, not very big. But in the 
last 5 years, not one, not two, but 2,000 rockets have landed on that 
town, all of them launched from the Gaza Strip.

Now, as you ponder what it is that you would do, let me tell you a 
little bit about the effect it has had to the people of Sderot. Eight 
people have been killed as these qassam rockets have fallen. What is a 
qassam rocket? A qassam rocket is a fairly primitive rocket that is 
made out of basically a plumbing pipe with four stabilizers and filled 
with about a pound or so of shrapnel, that when it explodes, it blows 
the shrapnel all around.

This is a picture of some of the qassam rockets that have landed in 
Sderot over the last 5 years. This is what the back of the local police 
station looks like. They keep them all and they mark it when they land. 
Now, eight people have been killed by these rockets, three of them 
children, dozens have been wounded. There have been 155 of these 
rockets landing in this town just since June, when Hamas was elected as 
the representative party of the people of the West Bank, and some would 
argue Gaza as well. You see this small strip of land? That's the Gaza 
Strip. Lobbed one by one by one into this town of Sderot. Well, as you 
think about how your citizens might deal, let me tell you a little bit 
about how the citizens of Sderot have dealt.

For one thing, when there is any kind of notice that they get, and 
they have a rather primitive system of lasers that detect when there is 
heat out in the desert that seems extraordinary, a notice goes to the 
local police department and then they send out tzeva adom, tzeva adom, 
which just means ''code red.'' Then you have about 15 seconds. That's 
how much time the people of Sderot have to respond. They can do a 
couple of things. They can run into these concrete shells that have 
been built all throughout town. The way we might have phone booths in 
our towns, they have concrete structures that are called life shields. 
They are supposed to pull over or stop their car where they are and run 
to a building or wall. It's the only part of Israel where it's illegal 
to wear your seat belt because you have to be able to run out of your 
car as quickly as possible to avoid the rocket attacks.

And kids, of course, they're taught the old 1950s-era American idea 
of ''duck and cover,'' except when it comes to the children of Sderot, 
it would be more aptly described as ''duck and suffer.'' One in three 
children in that town suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder. It is 
not coincidental or accidental that seven rockets landed in that town 
on the first day of school this past Sunday. There was a rocket attack 
today.

It is hard to find pictures that truly can express what it is like 
when a rocket falls on an elementary school; but this is a picture that 
was taken during a rocket attack last year, children essentially 
cowering in a corner of their school and holding their heads for their 
lives.

You know, it is easy to describe in dry terms what you're supposed to 
do when a rocket lands on your town, and thank God many of us will 
never know what that is like. But imagine what it is like when there 
are hundreds of


them, and now thousands of them over the course of the last couple of 
years.

Now, we here in Washington, we frequently think of things through the 
lens of what should the government response be. Well, what would your 
town's government response be if it was attacked by a foreign power day 
after day after day with rockets? Well, unfortunately for the people of 
Israel, there isn't a great deal that they can do, particularly since 
the international community has shown very little concern about the 
matter. The United Nations, perhaps we can urge them to pass a 
resolution of condemnation. They've been unwilling to do anything. You 
might try to figure out what ways you can make your residents more 
safe. The Israeli Government sent 200 soldiers to this town of 24,000 
people to escort their hundreds of kids to school. You might want to 
try to figure out where they're getting the artillery necessary to be 
launching these attacks. As you can see here, the border is only with 
one other country, and that's Egypt. Time and time again there have 
been found tunnels that lead into the Gaza Strip providing weaponry. 
You might want to crack down on Egypt to make sure that they stop 
providing the artillery.


But one thing for sure is you would do something. And sooner or 
later, I think it's fair to say that all of us, if we were put in this 
circumstance where there was one or even two or three at most rockets 
falling in our districts, we would demand that something be done. Well, 
I believe that it is time for those of us in the United States to 
realize that terrorism falls in all kinds of ways every day that barely 
gets a notice.

When several of these rockets fell in Sderot on the first day of 
school, you might have missed it in your neighborhood newspaper because 
it is so commonplace. It should never be, in 2007, commonplace for one 
nation to lob missiles down on the other.

Now, it comes as little surprise that just in the several months that 
Hamas took over control of the Gaza Strip that there has been an 
escalation in the number of rockets. But I also think that we need, as 
a country that is in solidarity with Israel and the many things that 
they're trying to do, you know, it's not the purpose of this map, but 
you can see that this is a nation that is surrounded with enemies. On 
the northern border they face Hezbollah, which declared war across the 
international border and lobbed weapons upon them in the Lebanese war.

You see here they're dealing with problems in the Gaza Strip. Now, I 
should point out that much of the escalation has happened in the period 
since Israel withdrew unilaterally from the Gaza Strip. There are no 
Israeli forces there anymore. Since the Israeli forces left, the rocket 
attacks have gone up.

So what can the Israelis do? Well, I guess they could reoccupy the 
Gaza Strip, and you can imagine the public condemnation and hue and cry 
that might occur if that happened. I guess they could try as best they 
could to track where these rockets are being fired from and try to go 
in as quickly as possible and counterattack. Well, it's not a very 
practical thing to do, perhaps they would argue. But one of the things 
they are considering doing is saying, look, we're going to cut off the 
power and supply to the Gaza Strip; we're going to make the citizens of 
Gaza Strip make a choice whether they're going to have terrorists in 
their midst or not.

Well, one thing that we can do, as far away from the front of the 
Sderot conflict as we are, is we could make it very clear that if we 
were in the same position, we would not be calling upon ourselves to 
show great restraint. We would try to figure out how do we solve this 
problem.

And so we, as the United States of America and the State Department, 
when they call upon Israel, show restraint, show restraint, don't 
retaliate, maybe that's a reasonable argument after one or two or 10 
rockets. Now, I think we have to realize that what Israel is engaged 
in, what this tiny town is engaged in is playing defense in the war on 
terrorism every single day without much support and without much help.

So I take the floor today with my good friend from Nevada to say 
that, while we are not being asked to live in a town like Sderot, we 
should be mindful of the idea that such towns exist in Israel, that it 
is not just the province of people who live along the Lebanese border 
that are facing terrorism, it's not just the province of people who 
drive along the roads even in the inner country of Israel who find 
themselves being under attack. It's a daily attack on this tiny town.

Now, they don't have C-SPAN; I doubt they have C-SPAN in Sderot. But 
they do listen very carefully when the United States of America, when 
the Secretary of State, when the President, when elected officials 
stand up and say, listen, we don't envy the situation that Israel is 
in, but we understand it. And we understand that retaliation is 
sometimes a difficult thing to contemplate, but sometimes it's 
necessary. We know that if we were put in the same position and 
suddenly the good folks in Canada started lobbing missiles over the New 
York border, I would be demanding that we respond. If the folks who 
live in Arizona or Texas started getting attacked with missiles coming 
over the border, certainly none of us would be saying, show 
forbearance.

If these children were being forced to cower at rocket attacks day 
after day after day in any town in the United States, we would 
understand perfectly well that something needed to be done to stem the 
tide. But there are other things we can do. We can say we are not going 
to continue to be a supporter of Egypt, as we have, if they continue to 
allow their nation to be essentially a wide open font for terrorist 
activities. We are going to understand that, while it was every right, 
and sometimes I'm criticized for making this image, it's every right of 
the people of the Palestinian territories to choose to elect Hamas as 
their leaders, but it is also the right of the international community 
to say that this is what we expected would happen. We would have an 
increase in the international terrorism that emerged from the Gaza 
Strip, and now it has happened. And if we had a terrorist government in 
Canada, we wouldn't hesitate for a moment to see it as a threat to our 
security.

We can also understand that the people of Sderot's fight is all of 
our fight. When the United Nations is, resolution after resolution, 
condemning Israel for its heavy hand in this or its heavy hand in that, 
when it convenes a conference to talk about the plight of the 
Palestinians, putting aside the plight of the Israelis, they do a 
disservice to the basic common sense about who it is that is doing the 
attacking, who it is that is launching the missiles and who it is that 
is on the other side.



The other thing that we can do is make sure that weapons like this 
are never armed with high-tech guidance systems. Right now, the 
administration is putting the final touches on a plan to present to the 
United States Congress that would sell missile guidance systems, $20 
million worth, to Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia has been one of the 
foremost advocates for Hamas in the world. They fund them. They support 
them. They provide them aid and comfort.

Imagine for a moment if these missiles weren't being lobbed 
relatively indiscriminately in the direction of schools, hospitals, 
shopping centers and synagogues, but imagine if they had laser guidance 
systems provided to the Saudis and then leaked to them, because that is 
what happens in that part of the world. Imagine this number of rockets 
that are hitting people and installations and churches, well, 
synagogues and not just falling to the Earth.

We can stop that sale. We in Congress can stop that sale. And we 
should do everything we can to do so. Ms. Berkley and I circulated a 
letter that over 115 Members of Congress signed onto saying this is a 
bad idea to be selling weapons, high-tech weapons, to the foremost 
exporter of terrorism in the world. But tonight when we lay down our 
heads, we should know that not far away, 2,000 miles away in Sderot, 
children are going to be walking to school, and most likely if tomorrow 
is like today was, they are going to hear a siren go off. They are 
going to hear a voice over the loudspeakers saying in Hebrew, 
''condition red, condition red'' which meant that they have to go find 
cover somewhere. Imagine raising your child in that kind of 
environment.


Imagine the outrage that you would feel as a parent or resident of that 
town.

We should never forget that we are not going to be safe just because 
we don't have rockets falling on us every single day. So long as there 
are entities in the world that find comfort in being able to do that 
day in and day out, we all suffer. We admire Israel for what it does. 
It is probably the last remaining country besides the United States of 
America that every day is trying to fight terrorism. Our friends in 
Europe turn it on and turn it off as they might be willing to. Frankly, 
it is the United States and Israel every day.

But as much as we fight and as much as we invest in resources, as 
much as we honor the men and women of the armed services, 150,000 
fighting for us in Iraq and Afghanistan, imagine if every single day we 
weren't having to go out and fight that fight, but it was landing in 
our community. That should be the lens that we look at this conflict 
through. There are complications. It is a nuanced and difficult thing. 
It is difficult trying to persuade people who are democracies in 
Lebanon, democracies in the West Bank and Gaza, that they shouldn't be 
voting for people whose campaign slogan is ''I want to drive Israel 
into the sea.'' It is discouraging.

It is complicated when you have a nation like Jordan for whom many of 
these people would consider their home country and have them take 
little responsibility for those people who are in the West Bank, as 
well as for those people who are in Gaza. It is a difficult, 
complicated part of the world. But there are some things that are 
immutable. And I would hope that we would all agree that one of the 
immutable things is that under no circumstance should any country have 
to withstand tens and tens, and hundreds, eventually thousands of 
rocket attacks on its land just because it is a small town and just 
because most people have never heard of it. My colleague, Congressman 
Wexler, and I had a long debate about how to pronounce it. He said 
''Sderot.'' I said ''Sderot.'' It is unclear. It was written originally 
in Hebrew. It probably appears in the Bible somewhere. Perhaps we can 
find an authority on that.

These are not the most influential people even in Israel. But it is 
troubling to me. I think I speak for my colleague, Ms. Berkley, that 
day in and day out these attacks happen, and none of us even notice any 
more. Well, the children and the adults and the people of that 
community notice. They notice. They are traumatized by it. I think it 
is our obligation as citizens of the world to say that while you can 
have different viewpoints about where borders should be and you can 
have different viewpoints about the relative gripes of the Palestinians 
or the gripes of Hamas or who should prevail, Fatah or Hamas, or 
whether or not the Egyptians are doing enough, or whether or not the 
Syrians are doing enough, or whether or not they are all just exporting 
terrorism in one form or the other, I would hope that we could agree 
that it is an international abomination that this is allowed to happen.

I would be glad to yield to my colleague from Nevada.