# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `8cf0b4011de0132a6658c1abf82adfcd`
`Ms. KILPATRICK â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me 
time.

I stand here today in support of House Resolution 63, a long time 
coming, but as it is always said, it is right on time. I stand here to 
speak for the millions of Americans today who have had enough, who have 
had enough of this war, its unjust nature, its over $500 billion that 
has been spent there in Iraq and Afghanistan and not spent in our own 
country.

I stand here today in support of H. Con. Res. 63 because this war has 
lasted longer than World War II. My 87-year-old father fought in the 
Navy at Pearl Harbor during World War II. One of my political mentors, 
a great man, Mayor Coleman Alexander Young, a former Tuskeegee Airman, 
fought during World War II. It is time to bring our troops home. It is 
time for us to change the course.

As we celebrate this Black History Month, the theme of the 
Congressional Black Caucus during these times are change course, do 
something different, act, speak, donate, join, confront the crisis, the 
crisis of the war which is why we are here today, and then continue the 
legacy that has brought this country to greatness.

Many of my Congressional Black Caucus members have served in the 
military. John Conyers, Charlie Rangel, Ed Towns, Bobby Scott, William 
Jefferson, Sanford Bishop, all able men who have fought and served in 
our military over the years.

We come to you, tonight, this evening, as members of the 
Congressional Black Caucus, proud Americans. We love our country. We 
serve our people. And we want to remain the strongest Nation in the 
world.

Who speaks for the American people in this time of crisis? They spoke 
to us last November when they said enough is enough. The first military 
man who died in wars for our country's independence was Crispus 
Attucks, who fought in the Revolutionary War, an African American man 
who gave his life because he loved this country, could not vote at the 
time, could not own property, but again he fought in a war because, 
again, this was the greatest country in the world.

So what do we do today as we discuss H. Con. Res. 63? It is time to 
engage in a diplomatic solution. We cannot win this war militarily. The 
generals, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have spoken out against the 
escalation. What is the plan, Mr. President? How do we bring our 
soldiers home, redeploy them on the periphery, and make our country 
safe, and, at the same time, invest those dollars in Americans' lives, 
in their children's lives?

Dr. King wrote a book, ''I Have the Strength.'' I have the strength 
to stand before you today for the American people. I have the strength 
to let you know that we as a Nation can be all that God wants us to be. 
That in fighting wars, and wars will come from time to time, this is 
the time to bring this one to the end.

I will protect and speak out for the over 3,100 families who have 
lost young men and women, over the tens of thousands who are blinded 
and amputees, and over the many hundred thousands we do not yet know 
who will be in need of mental health services as our mental health 
capacity in this country has been shredded.

Those dollars have to be invested so that we take care of our 
veterans. I have the strength to stand here before you this evening 
because it is time, as we debate H. Con. Res. 63, that we rise up as a 
Nation and speak out and continue our legislative responsibilities, as 
I stood before you, took my oath of office that I would protect this 
country, our Constitution, against both domestic and foreign 
intimidation.

I stand before you tonight as one of 43 members of the Congressional 
Black Caucus during this African American History Month, who love our 
country, who want us to invest in America's families. H. Con. Res. 63 
will begin that discussion. It will make it available that we might 
change course, do something different, listen to the American people.

We love our troops. We served in those troops. Our families served. 
We want the strongest military that we have available. We are now 
having in Iraq equipment shortages. If we spent over $503 billion, why 
is it that equipment is not adequate for our soldiers to engage in 
battle?

Accountability. The Inspector General recently reported $9 billion is 
unaccounted for. That is $9 billion as part of the $500 billion that 
could be invested in American families. So I say as I stand here, H. 
Con. Res. 63, vote ''yes.'' Let's change course.

I am honored and blessed with the understanding of a power greater 
than that of any singular or even collective Membership of this 
Congress. That power has allowed Congress to finally debate the most 
pressing question of our time--the War in Iraq. As I prepared myself to 
speak in support of H. Con. Res. 63, a very simple and very clear 
declaration that Congress supports our troops, but we oppose the 
escalation of this war, I reflected upon the words of one of the 
greatest warriors for peace this world has ever known, Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr. A prolific author, Dr. King wrote a book entitled, 
''Where Do We Go From Here: Chaos or Community?'' In it, Dr. King 
writes that ''we are faced with the fact that tomorrow is today. We are 
confronted with the fierce urgency of now. Life often leaves us 
standing bare, naked and dejected with a lost opportunity.'' Congress 
lost our opportunity for real debate on this war a little more than 
four years ago. Congress has that opportunity now.

As this is the height of Black History Month, I also speak to America 
today because of the investment that my ancestor put through 4 
centuries of slave labor, 4 centuries of lynchings, 4 centuries of Jim 
Crow laws, 4 centuries of sitting on the back of the bus, 4 centuries 
of combined discrimination. And despite 4 centuries of second class 
citizenship, African Americans have always heeded the call to arms in 
defense of a country that did not always defend them.

Indeed, when it comes to war, the very first person, black, white, 
Asian, Pacific Islander, or Native American to die for this country was 
an African American, Crispus Attucks, who did not even have the right 
to vote, the right to buy property, the right to be recognized as a 
human being. He wanted the right to love our country. Like the hundreds 
of thousands of African Americans who have followed his footsteps in 
the military, I honor and I appreciate the service of all our women and 
men in the military of all ethnicities. I support all of the women and 
men who serve, without glory but with honor, efficiently and 
effectively protecting all of us, never hesitating to pay the highest 
price any human being could pay for our freedom.

I speak to America today because Americans have had enough, as best 
selling author Frank Rich illustrates, of the ''decline and fall of the 
truth.'' Of what decline and fall do I speak? Of ''Mission 
accomplished.'' Of ''bring 'em on.'' Of ''shock and awe.'' Of ''dead or 
alive.'' Of ''uranium coming from Africa.'' Of ''smoking guns becoming 
mushroom clouds.'' Those Americans who have had enough are not just the 
Democratic majority. They are not just the senior citizens, the working 
class women and men who punch a time clock every day, or the liberals 
of America. They conservatives, my Republican colleagues in Congress 
and elsewhere, people in the red States and blue States, business 
owners, military women and men and their families.


My father served this country honorably as a member of our military, 
as have many of my relatives. Many members of the Congressional Black 
Caucus have also served this country in our military. Just off of the 
top of my head, my colleagues Chairman John Conyers, Chairman Charles 
Rangel, Congressman Ed Towns, and Congressman Bobby Scott, among 
others, have worn the uniform. My political mentor and hero, the late, 
great mayor of Detroit, Michigan, Coleman Young, was one of General 
Benjamin O. Davis, Jr.'s understudies as a Tuskeegee Airman as a 
bombardier and navigator. During the Vietnam war, African Americans 
served despite the opposition of Dr. King and other groups opposed to 
the Vietnam war. They did it for the same reason why I serve this 
country as a Member of Congress--because I love our country.

The investment that began when African Americans set foot in 
Jamestown, Virginia in 1619 and continues to this very day is the 
reason why I stand in support of this resolution that is but the first 
step, to resolve the challenge that is Iraq. I am not a military 
expert, and I don't pretend to be a military expert. But, as noted 
genius Albert Einstein once said, ''insanity is doing the same over and 
over again and expecting different results.'' Over and over, Congress 
has spent over $503 billion in Iraq. Over and over, America's finest 
have died, with more than 3,000 women and men, in Iraq. Over and over, 
women and men are wounded or maimed, some for life, with more than 
25,000 today. Today, we still cannot safely fly planes on a reliable 
basis in and out of Baghdad. This is progress?



Progress is what Americans want. I know that war can be messy, 
amorphous at times, and brutal. After a war that has lasted more than 
the United States involvement in World War II, our military women and 
men deserve progress. Our taxpayers deserve progress. Our current 
course, and this surge, is not what Americans want, this is not what 
Congress wants, this is not what I want.

Historians have generally acknowledged that the debate on the war in 
1991 was one of the high marks of this institution. Congress did not 
cede its role then to a popular President. Instead, Congress and the 
White House worked together to achieve a worthwhile goal. It was 
difficult. Both sides had to compromise. But guess what? That is how a 
democracy works.

Unfortunately, Congress did not have this debate over 4 years ago in 
a war that has now lasted longer than the United States was involved in 
World War II. Thank God, we have that debate now. Thank God, we have 
heard the voice of the American people. Thank God and the American 
people, it is time for a change.

After this debate, after this resolution, I hope that this is the 
beginning of our country, and our world, to begin to choose between 
chaos and community. As Dr. King once wrote, ''we have a choice today--
nonviolent coexistence or violent co annihilation.''

Dr. King wrote another book entitled ''Strength to Love.'' It is 
because I have the strength to love my country, the strength to love 
our troops, the strength to love the oath I took for this office--that 
I will protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, 
against all enemies, foreign and domestic--that I have the strength to 
support this resolution. We need to be smarter about our policy in Iraq 
to include diplomatic and political solutions rather than repeating the 
same military policies that have not worked, but continue to put the 
finest of our women and men in harm's way. Republicans and Democrats, 
conservatives and liberals, working together, can arrive at a solution 
that establishes a stable democracy in Iraq, protects American 
interests, and increases the role and responsibility of the Iraqi 
people to fend for themselves.

Instead of ''bring them on,'' I hope that my colleagues agree that 
Congress can start to ''bring them home.'' I will vote in strong 
support of H. Con. Res. 63, and hope that Congress can quickly work to 
bring stronger, binding legislation to the floor soon.