# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `8d8daa06d712372914fa52ace917dc71`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE â€” 15 July 2009`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Madam Chair, I rise in support of H.R. 3082, the 
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010. This legislation continues our commitment to the men 
and women who sacrifice so much to keep our nation safe, supporting 
members of our military on base, in theater, and when they return home.

As the representative of Fort Bragg, Pope Air Force Base, and many 
members of our National Guard and Reserves, I am pleased that this bill 
invests in the infrastructure needed to prepare our troops for battle 
and improve military equipment. Fort Bragg is becoming one of the 
largest military facilities in the country through the 2005 Base 
Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process, and this bill will provide more 
than $200 million for a variety of projects on the base in support of 
Army activity, special operations forces, and the National Guard. 
Nationwide, H.R. 3082 contains significant funding for new facilities 
including $450 million to modernize troop housing, $2 billion to 
improve military family housing, and $7.5 billion for BRAC. In 
recognition of the historic contributions of National Guard and Reserve 
personnel to operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as their 
support of emergency assistance and homeland security, this bill 
provides $200 million for National Guard and Reserve construction. H.R. 
3082 also includes $1.4 billion for needs related to operations and 
troop increases in Afghanistan. Overall, this bill ensures that our 
military infrastructure keeps up with the needs of our modern fighting 
forces and operations overseas.

As an Army veteran, I am also pleased that H.R. 3082 continues to 
build on our promise to take care of all those who have served our 
country with honor. It provides nearly $109 billion for veteran's 
services, including medical care and facilities. Together with 
increases of the last two years, enactment of this bill will have 
increased veteran's funding by nearly 50 percent, in recognition of the 
service of our soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan. The bill provides 
$34.7 billion to improve access to medical services for all veterans 
and $4.6 billion for mental health care, and will add 1,200 new claims 
processors to reduce the claims backlog and ensure veterans receive 
care and payment in a timely manner. It also makes significant 
investments in medical research and information technology. As the 
representative of a predominantly rural district, I am aware that more 
than 40 percent of veterans live in rural areas. This bill invests $440 
million to improve access to care for these veterans, who often have to 
travel long distances to receive care.

Madam Chair, this bill takes care of those who are keeping America 
safe. I urge my colleagues to join me in support of H.R. 3082, to 
fulfill our continued obligations to our nation's military.
