# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `8dcbde727c1634d8cd0f6be0b59c89dc`
`Mr. TIAHRT â€” 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, this supplemental funding is one of the most important 
bills that Congress will be considering this year, and I am very 
disappointed that the Democrat leadership has mandated that this bill 
come to the floor under a closed rule.

I have heard the Democrats say that this is not a perfect rule. It is 
perfectly wrong; that is what it is.

What does a closed rule mean? It means voices will not be heard. It 
means ideas will be silenced. A closed rule means that no amendments 
will be allowed to the bill, that no alternative plan to fully fund the 
troops will be allowed.

I only have 2 minutes to discuss this, not enough time to explain to 
the American people how this puts our troops at risk or question why 
the Speaker believes she has the right to micromanage the war in Iraq.

We spent a whole week debating the nonbinding resolution on Iraq, and 
now we have only 4 hours of how to best fund and support our troops. It 
is not enough time to explain title IX, where the language of the bill 
prevents our troops from receiving reinforcements or replacements. It 
is not enough time to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that the 
supplemental will fulfill the goals of al Qaeda's leader al-Zawahiri. 
It is not enough time to show the American people how this supplemental 
replaces the Iraqi National Congress by imposing on their government 
demands, demands to change their Constitution, demands to change their 
laws.

This is an unfair rule that represents broken promises for a more 
open Congress made by the Speaker. This is a rule that should be 
defeated.

I am going to vote ''no'' on this, and I encourage my colleagues to 
also vote ''no'' on this rule. It is an unfair bill.