# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `8e171ab8ac3755feac041b018cc71a49`
`Mr. KAUFMAN â€” 21 April 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Madam President, I rise today in support of the 
nomination of Christopher Hill to be Ambassador to Iraq.

Last week, I had the very distinct privilege of joining Senator Jack 
Reed on a trip to Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan to witness firsthand 
the remarkable contributions of our military and civilians abroad. In 
each and every meeting in Baghdad, we were asked about the nomination 
of Ambassador Hill, and it was painstakingly clear that the absence of 
a U.S. Ambassador creates questions regarding America's commitment to 
the future of Iraq.

I cannot stress enough the concern expressed by our military and 
civilian leadership, as well as the Iraqi Government, that there is no 
high-level civilian representing the United States in Iraq. It is in 
this regard that I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting 
Ambassador Hill's confirmation.

Here in the Senate, we understand the intricacies of parliamentary 
procedures, but outside this delay is interpreted differently. It is 
seen by far too many as signifying a low priority, a lack of American 
interest, and a slight to the people of Iraq.



With the beginning of President Obama's drawdown plan and the 
withdrawal of American forces from major cities by this summer, we 
absolutely, positively need an ambassador to coordinate increased 
civilian efforts needed to replace our military presence.

As Iraqis take important steps to improve security, governance, 
economic development, and the training of police, we must have an 
ambassador to coordinate our efforts and continue to channel U.S. 
resources and support. As Iraq faces the challenge of continued 
sectarian tension--especially between the Arabs and the Kurds--
Ambassador Hill's first task should be focusing on mitigating tensions 
in the north and helping the Iraqis resolve difficult questions 
surrounding the status of Kirkuk and the hydrocarbons law.

The future of Iraq is incumbent upon critical developments and 
critical milestones that were made this year, and it is incumbent upon 
this body--the Senate--to ensure that the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad--the 
largest in the world--has the leadership it needs to succeed in Iraq.

I have met with Ambassador Hill and I am positive that he is the 
right person for this critical task. His extensive experience in 
diplomacy, nation building, and conflict management--especially in the 
Balkans--has prepared him for the challenge of Iraq. As a member of 
Ambassador Holbrooke's team, Ambassador Hill was deeply engaged in the 
success of the Dayton peace accords in Bosnia. As Ambassador of 
Macedonia, he helped to ensure refugee camps were established for the 
Kosovar refugees. As a Special Negotiator for Kosovo, Ambassador Hill 
was the architect for efforts to secure human rights for the 
population. When those negotiations failed, he recommended NATO 
intervention to prevent ethnic cleansing. Ambassador Hill has been 
tested by some of the very biggest foreign policy challenges in recent 
decades. He has demonstrated time and time again that he has the skills 
necessary to succeed in Iraq.

The post of Ambassador to Iraq is vitally important to U.S. security 
interests in the region, and I am confident the Senate will soon 
confirm Ambassador Hill. With this in mind, I urge my colleagues who 
oppose this nomination to reconsider their reservations and concerns. 
For that reason, I wish to address a few of those concerns now because 
it is critical to stress the importance of protecting human rights 
throughout the world, and Ambassador Hill does.

The most serious allegation against Ambassador Hill is related to his 
alleged unwillingness to push North Korea during the Six Party Talks. I 
can tell my colleagues frankly that I would not support Ambassador 
Hill's nomination if I had any question about his commitment to human 
rights. But I have none. He coordinated his efforts closely with the 
State Department's Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor. 
Together they worked to admit the first North Korean refugees to the 
United States in 2006 and expanded funding in support of North Korean 
human rights. This included expanded radio broadcasting efforts and 
support for North Korean defector organizations in South Korea.

He has intervened with foreign governments, including China, to make 
sure North Korean asylum seekers did not disappear into detention but 
could have safe transit into third countries. In public and in private, 
Ambassador Hill has made clear to North Korean officials that human 
rights are a primary concern of the United States--as important as the 
nuclear issue. The United States must insist that any settlement with 
North Korea take into account its atrocious record on human rights. 
Ambassador Hill was clear about the primacy of human rights in the 
process of negotiations.

Critics of Ambassador Hill have looked at a disappointing outcome at 
Six Party Talks and pointed the blame at him. It is a chilling thought, 
but it must be noted that without Ambassador Hill's commitment, the 
situation could have been far worse. In this regard, I am grateful to 
Ambassador Hill for all that he accomplished with a government well-
known for its intransigence--clearly, the most intransigent government 
on the face of the Earth.

The practical diplomatic skills Ambassador Hill demonstrated in the 
Balkans and North Korea are what we need in Iraq. We will need his past 
experience with refugees and internally displaced persons. We will need 
his ability to interact with all parties as a fair arbitrator, and we 
need his experience with security issues and the training of police.

Now, more than ever, it is absolutely critical to demonstrate to the 
Iraqi people and the world that we value the importance of the future 
of Iraq. At this critical turning point, we must have a diplomat in 
Baghdad who can confront the many challenges and provide the necessary 
leadership for our mission. It is in this regard that I strongly 
support the nomination of Ambassador Chris Hill, not only because he is 
an accomplished diplomat but because he is the right person for the 
task at hand in Iraq.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.