# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `8e7aaaf64504aff3202094100bb79da0`
`Mr. TIAHRT â€” 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Mr. Speaker, February 5th, the Department of Defense made 
a request for the resources and flexibility required to successfully 
prosecute the Global War on Terror. For 3/1/2/ months Congress has 
failed in this fundamental, constitutional responsibility. Today, I am 
pleased to finally support H.R. 2206, the FY 2007 Iraq and Afghanistan 
War Supplemental Appropriations bill. I believe this legislation 
strikes the right balance of unfettered access to resources by our 
military and the establishment of guiding benchmarks for the new Iraqi 
government. In addition, I applaud the inclusion of disaster relief 
funding for Greensburg, Kansas, and an increase in the Federal minimum 
wage.

I want to thank Chairman Obey and Ranking Member Lewis for their hard 
work on this legislation. Putting aside political grandstanding and 
maneuvering, we have finally come together to produce legislation that 
provides our soldiers with the funding they need, while providing the 
flexibility our commanders in Iraq require--showing the commitment of 
this Congress to success in Iraq and the broader War on Terror.

Our Soldiers and Marines are in desperate need of funding for 
essential procurement items, operations and maintenance, and military 
paychecks and benefits. Among other things, this legislation will fuel 
our trucks, feed our soldiers, provide imminent danger pay, and arm 
them against our nation's enemies. This funding comes without 
unrealistic and dangerous strings that could have placed lives of our 
servicemen and women in jeopardy.

This Congress is finally showing its commitment to success in the 
Global War on Terror. We must never forget that this war was started by 
Muslim extremists and has been waged against the United States and its 
citizens since the 1970s. However, almost every skirmish and battle 
prior to the invasion of Afghanistan in 2001 found the United States on 
the defensive and on the losing side. Does this House remember the 
killing of 241 Marines in Beirut in 1983? The U.S. Embassy bombing in 
Lisbon in 1986? The first World Trade Center bombing in 1993? The 
Khobar Towers bombing in 1996? The bombing of our U.S. Embassies in 
Africa in 1998? Or the bombing of the USS Cole in 2000? Our ignorance 
of these events culminated in the attacks on September 11th, 2001. Each 
one of these was a battle in this war we now face. I hope this House 
finally understands we cannot win this war on the defensive.

The terrorists took the fight to us for decades; now we must take the 
fight to the terrorists. I do not want this war. But rest assured--this 
war will happen regardless of our presence in Iraq or Afghanistan. The 
question is, ''Does this fight happen on the streets of Bagdad or the 
streets of New York City or Wichita, Kansas?'' We must take the fight 
to the enemy. We must stay on the offense. Fortunately, this 
legislation now allows the United States to stay on the offensive in 
this global struggle.


In addition to providing critical funding for our military, this 
legislation provides $40 million of disaster relief funding for 
Greensburg, Kansas, which was completely destroyed during a recent 
tornado. The most devastating natural disaster to strike Kansas in 
years, Greensburg is a city without schools, businesses, or houses. 
However, the people of Greensburg have a passion and vision to rebuild 
their town, and I am pleased that this Congress is committing the 
resources required to begin that process.

Mr. Speaker, I want to personally thank Chairman Obey and Ranking 
Member Lewis for working with me and the Kansas delegation to include 
this funding for Greensburg. The tornado took away so much from this 
community, but it did not take away the Kansan spirit of big dreams and 
hard work. Greensburg will be rebuilt, and the funding provided here 
today will help make that happen.

Not only do the people of Greensburg receive support in this 
legislation, but the workers in Wichita and around the country will 
receive a well-deserved pay raise. I stand in support of raising the 
Federal minimum wage to $7.25 per hour in conjunction with providing 
associated tax relief for small businesses.

However, when dealing with the minimum wage, it is imperative that 
small businesses be provided with associated tax relief. When small and 
family-owned businesses are forced to shoulder increased costs, they 
have no choice but to hire fewer workers, reduce current worker 
benefits, and pass along the costs to consumers in the form of higher 
prices. Therefore, providing associated tax relief will allow the 
workers we intend to help keep their jobs. I applaud this bill for 
providing the minimum wage increase with the associated tax relief

Mr. Speaker, our Nation is facing great challenges from fighting the 
Global War on Terror to rebuilding communities devastated by natural 
disasters. By working together in a bipartisan approach, Congress can 
do the right thing. This Iraq and Afghanistan Supplemental 
Appropriations bill provides our troops the resources they need, helps 
rebuild Greensburg, and gives a well-deserved raise to $5.6 million 
people. For that, I am pleased to offer my support.
