# None
## `8e9c39c29c6c59776449f6e110e88364`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, I rise today to speak briefly in 
connection with amendments we made to the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. Specifically, I wish to comment 
on five amendments which have been accepted which are important to the 
future of our military and also important to the future of military 
installations we have within the State of Colorado.



At the outset, let me say that as we have moved forward with this 
legislation, I have very much appreciated the leadership of the 
chairman of the committee, Senator Carl Levin, and all of his staff who 
have worked so hard with all of us on these amendments and the hundreds 
of amendments so many Members have filed. I also express my 
appreciation to Senator McCain and to his staff, Senator Warner and all 
of his staff, who have also worked with us on these amendments that are 
so important for our Nation's defense.

The five amendments I wish to briefly review are related, in part, to 
Colorado but also in a larger sense related to the question of how we 
make sure we have the best national defense and homeland security we 
possibly can.

The first of those amendments is an amendment relating to an effort 
we have underway with the Secretary of the Air Force to make sure we 
are protecting our Air Force bases from the kind of encroachment that 
will impair their military mission, unless we are proactive about 
making sure the appropriate buffer zones are, in fact, created.

In my State of Colorado, there are three Air Force bases which are 
very important to our Nation's defense system. They are Peterson and 
Schriever Air Force Bases in El Paso County, in Colorado Springs, and 
Buckley Air Force in Aurora, in the Denver metropolitan area. In the 
case of each one of those installations, which I have frequented often 
in my time in the Senate, I have seen the development that is occurring 
from one end of the base to the other and the encroachment that occurs 
as the urbanization moves out. I have expressed often to local elected 
officials in that part of the State it is important that what we do is 
protect those military installations so that 10 years, 25 years, or 50 
years from now, we can make sure the military mission we have assigned 
to those bases is one that will not be compromised. Yet, as 
urbanization occurs and you see the subdivisions that sprout up around 
these bases, you have to wonder when that point in time will come where 
the encroachment itself will start having an impact on the mission of 
these military installations.

We have noticed in the past--and studies have concluded, including a 
study from the RAND Corporation--that some branches of our Armed 
Services do a better job than others in terms of protecting their 
military installations from encroachment. The REPI program, which is a 
program that has now been in existence for some time, has been widely 
used by the U.S. Army. Indeed, in our State of Colorado, with Fort 
Carson, one of the things that has happened is we have seen much of the 
buffer-zone area that is needed to be acquired to assure that Fort 
Carson's military mission is not negatively impacted in the future. It 
is that same kind of proactiveness that we need to take on with our Air 
Force Bases.

I recently met with Secretary Wynne to talk about the importance of 
us doing this not only in Colorado but around the Nation. He is in 
agreement that we ought to do that. He is in agreement that we ought to 
take a look at what more we can do to protect our Air Force 
installations.

In my own view, in terms of what happens in my own State, we are not 
proactive enough. What happens is that whenever there is a developer 
who comes in with some kind of a program, the developer will go to the 
local land-use officials and seek the necessary land-use approvals to 
move forward, to try to get their development built. What the local 
government officials will do is they will look at whether the military 
mission is being impaired as only one factor. But it is being reactive 
to a force of development that is probably occurring in that entire 
area.

It would be much better, from my point of view, if what we do with 
our Air Force installations is to be proactive and look out at what we 
can do to make sure we are protecting the mission of those Air Force 
Bases for the long term--for 10 years, for 25 years, for 50 years. It 
is my hope with this amendment, which has been agreed to, that we will 
be able to do that.

The second amendment which I want to speak about briefly has to do 
with the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site. The Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site is 
some 237,000 acres of training facility located in the southeastern 
part of my State of Colorado. It is a very important part of the 
training capacities we have at Fort Carson. Over the last several 
years, the U.S. Army has indicated that what it wants to do is 
significantly expand Fort Carson and the training facility that is 
located at the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site.

Because of rumors and the information flow, which is not always 
accurate, at one point in time the residents of my State in 
southeastern Colorado had the view that what, essentially, the Army was 
attempting to do was to condemn what was the entire southeastern part 
of the State of Colorado. If that, in fact, were to have happened or if 
that were to happen in the future, the ranching heritage of the 
southeastern part of my State would be destroyed.

So what has happened over time is we have had a conversation with the 
Department of Defense and the Secretary of the Army about the future of 
Pinon Canyon. There are a number of very legitimate questions that have 
been raised.

One of those questions is whether the 237,000 acres that already 
encompass the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site are sufficient to be able to 
provide the training capacity that is needed at Fort Carson. There is a 
possibility that the answer to that question will be, yes; that when 
you combine those 237,000 acres with the nearly 100,000 acres already 
on the Fort Carson main campus itself, there are sufficient land needs 
available for its future. It may be that the answer comes back that 
some additional land might be needed. But if so, then it is important 
for the Army to tell us what additional training capacities would be 
acquired if they acquire this additional land.


There are many questions with respect to the expansion, from my point 
of view, that have not been answered. I place this in the context of 
what the BRAC Commission found in January of 2005, where the findings 
of the Commission were that additional brigades would be moved into 
Fort Carson which are now underway in terms of being moved into Fort 
Carson itself; that there was enough training ground at Fort Carson to 
be able to satisfy the needs of our soldiers at Fort Carson. So if that 
was, in fact, the conclusion that we reached in January of 2005, it 
raises the very legitimate question as to why it is that we need to 
have additional land for training today. So these important questions 
are set forth in legislation that my friend and colleague, Senator 
Allard from Colorado, and I offered together in an amendment, and it 
was an amendment that was accepted by the Senate last night. For that I 
want to say thank you once again to the floor managers of this 
legislation.

The third amendment I want to speak about briefly this afternoon is 
an amendment that deals with the paralympic program for wounded 
warriors. Today, in my State, in part because of the fact that the U.S. 
Olympic Committee is hosted and housed in Colorado Springs and the fact 
that we have a major paralympic program that takes place in the State 
of Colorado, there is a desire to be able to do more. There is a desire 
to be able to do more in large part because many of the wounded 
warriors we see coming back from Iraq and from Afghanistan, those 
30,000 men and women who have been wounded, sometimes very grievously 
in this war, ought to be given every opportunity that we can possibly 
give them so they can live the best life they can, given the injuries 
they have sustained on behalf of a very grateful nation. So it is in 
that regard that our paralympic amendment would expand the authorities 
of the Department of Defense so that they, our wounded warriors, would 
have a greater opportunity to be involved in some of the paralympic 
programs that are hosted throughout the Nation. So, again, I thank my 
colleagues for accepting that amendment.

The fourth amendment I want to briefly address this afternoon is the 
amendment relating to a hard deadline for the destruction of chemical 
weapons at the Pueblo Chemical Army depot, as well as at Blue Grass in 
Kentucky. This legislation is legislation that has been pushed hard on 
a bipartisan basis. It has been pushed hard by Senator McConnell and 
Senator Bunning, Senator Allard and myself. It is our hope that with 
the passage of


this legislation, the Army will, in fact, understand, and that the 
Department of Defense will, in fact, understand that 2017 sets a hard 
deadline for us to move forward and complete the destruction of these 
chemicals which today provide a hazard to the communities and people 
who live nearby, and provide a national security threat if these 
chemical weapons were ever to fall into the hands of terrorists and 
into the hands of those who want to do us wrong in this country. So it 
is our hope that with this legislation, we will be able to continue to 
push for a 2017 deadline for the completion of the destruction of these 
chemical weapons.

Finally, the fifth amendment I want to refer to briefly is an 
amendment relating to the training of helicopter pilots at high 
altitudes. Today, in the mountains of Afghanistan, where many of us in 
our congressional delegation trips into either Iraq or Afghanistan have 
been in those helicopters, we know the kinds of conditions they have to 
fly in, at some of those very high altitudes, especially in the country 
of Afghanistan and those borders between Afghanistan and Pakistan. The 
only place where our pilots can receive the adequate training to be 
able to make sure they have the capacity to fly those helicopters at 
those high altitudes is at a site in Gypsum, CO. But today, whenever a 
helicopter pilot has to go into that area, into that training facility 
in order to be trained on how to fly their helicopters, what they have 
to do is they have to bring their own helicopters to the site.

So what we are asking for here is for six helicopters to be stationed 
there at the site to be able to provide our pilots with the best kind 
of high altitude training for helicopter pilots that we can possibly 
provide as a nation. So I thank my colleagues. I thank Senator Levin, 
Senator McCain, Senator Warner, Senator Reid, and others who have been 
involved in pushing the Department of Defense authorization bill 
forward, and I thank them for supporting those amendments.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that I be recognized to 
speak on the Children's Health Insurance Program as in morning business 
for a period of up to 10 minutes.