# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `8ee1d29f2dbe4ac707db871927dbe4b9`
`Mr. BUYER â€” 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. BUYER. Mr. Speaker, I stand before you in opposition to this 
resolution. Once again, it champions a dismally irresponsible and 
dangerous course of action. Setting a date certain for withdrawal of 
our troops from Iraq would envelope Iraq in a cloud of chaos and self 
destruction and expose us to a heightened threat of terrorism at home. 
It ignores the President's plan for success in totality. It makes no 
consideration for the effort to make progress on diplomatic and 
economic fronts--essential components for that success to occur. They 
offer no solutions in this bill, only criticism.

Mr. Hoyer's failed attempt on April 19th to correlate my involvement 
regarding the U.S. efforts in Bosnia in the 1990s to that of the 
situation in Iraq today stretches into the realm of absurdity. However, 
what was clear from that debate was that Mr. Hoyer at the time, as well 
as Mr. Murtha, agreed that we should not tie the hands of our President 
in military operations, even in operations that the Congress did not 
approve.

Mr. Speaker, let me refresh everyone's memories of that debate which 
took place in this Chamber, a debate in which I was the lead sponsor of 
three significant resolutions or amendments that set the course of this 
Congress--all three which passed by significant margins with support 
from both sides of the aisle.

But before I begin let me remind the Nation that there are 
significant differences and some similarities between the debate of 
Bosnia and today in Iraq. First, Congress did not authorize the 
President to use force in Bosnia. Congress did authorize the President 
to use military force in Iraq. Second, we did not begin the conflict in 
Bosnia, but we did in Iraq. Third, the Republican majority in Congress 
did in fact try to work with President Clinton to find a solution. 
Former Senator Bob Dole and I with others traveled with President 
Clinton to Bosnia and worked with him to set benchmarks for the civil 
implementation of the Dayton Accords. I did not assign a date certain 
to define success for each benchmark, this would have been folly. At 
the time the leaders of the peace were once leaders during the war and 
they focused more on these differences than that which brought them 
together as a nation. President Clinton did a very good job focusing 
the Bosnian leaders to accomplish the benchmarks and move to resolve 
their differences and build their new nation.

Last week on the House Floor my colleague, Steny Hoyer attempted to 
re-write the history of my involvement, claiming that I supported a 
date certain for withdrawal of our troops from Bosnia and therefore I 
should do the same with our forces in Iraq. The two contexts are 
dissimilar. Let me set the record straight.

On October 30, 1995, the House agreed to House Resolution 247, a bill 
that I sponsored with my Democrat colleague, Paul McHale of 
Pennsylvania, by a vote of 315 to 103. Representatives Hoyer, Murtha, 
and Pelosi voted ''no,'' Mr. Skelton voted ''yes.'' The bill stated 
that there should not be a presumption that the United States Armed 
Forces would be deployed to enforce a peace agreement that resulted 
from the negotiations regarding the conflict in the Republic of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina.

In early December 1995, the Dayton Accords concluded, laying a basis 
for the path to peace in Bosnia.

On December 13, 1995, I sponsored House Resolution 302 with Ike 
Skelton, a bipartisan bill that passed the House by a vote of 287 to 
141. Representatives Hoyer, Murtha, and Pelosi voted ''no.'' That bill 
reiterated the serious concerns and opposition to the President's 
policy that would result in the deployment of 20,000 members of the 
U.S. Armed Forces on the ground in the territory of the Republic of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina.

Despite the expressed will of the House, President Clinton chose to 
proceed with the deployment of those members of the Armed Forces to 
enforce the Dayton peace agreement in Bosnia. H.R. 302 declared the 
policy of the House was that the President should rely on the judgment 
of the commanders of U.S. forces on the ground on all matters affecting 
safety, support, and well being of U.S. forces. Congress also declared 
to furnish the resources to support the needs of President and the 
Secretary of Defense.

Also on December 13, 1995, the President expressed to Congress that 
the military mission in Bosnia would be accomplished in 1 year, and our 
troops would be pulled out no later than December 1996. No one believed 
that the goal could be accomplished within 1 year. A date certain does 
not define success, the mission does.

However, despite that assertion, in November 1996, without the 
consent of Congress, President Clinton announced that the timeline was 
slipping and that our troops would not be withdrawn until June 1998.

By that point, the United States Armed Forces had acted quickly to 
achieve their military objectives in Bosnia. In short order, the 
courage, dedication, and professionalism of those personnel resulted in 
a significant mitigation of the violence and suffering in that region.

However, the implementation of the civil infrastructure--the 
humanitarian support, the establishment of a judicial system and a 
validated police force--all of the fundamental parts that help make a 
society function had stalled and there was no definitive plan to remedy 
the situation.

In response, on June 24, 1997, I offered an amendment to the National 
Defense Authorization Act of 1998 that passed the House by a vote of 
278 to 148. Representatives Hoyer, Murtha, and Pelosi voted ''no'', 
Skelton voted ''yes.'' That amendment would have cut funding to U.S. 
military operations in Bosnia after June 30, 1998--a date set by the 
President. I did not set the date Mr. Hoyer, this was President 
Clinton's date. This amendment was later incorporated into the 
conference report that included provisions that would allow U.S. forces 
to remain if the President made certain certifications and accomplished 
certain benchmarks. While I used the date certain given to us by the 
President, I made it clear that I supported benchmarks that set the 
conditions for a withdrawal of U.S. forces after the mission had been 
successfully completed.

President Clinton had set an arbitrary date without articulating a 
comprehensive plan--he did not identify the conditions to be met into 
order to trigger a troop withdrawal from Bosnia. He simply set a date, 
and then revised that date. We in Congress took that date, and required 
certain benchmarks to be met, while at the same time allowing the 
President the flexibility to allow troops to remain if he thought it 
was in the interests of U.S. national security.

In Bosnia, we worked in a bipartisan manner with the President to set 
the conditions for success in Bosnia and gave the President maximum 
flexibility. Today, this President gets no such deference or 
flexibility from the Democrat majority. Mr. Hoyer and Mr. Murtha want 
to enforce a date certain for this President. They do not want to work 
with this President to set the conditions for success. They simply want 
to trigger a date for withdrawal, before the mission is done.

It is ironic that Mr. Hoyer and Mr. Murtha voted against that 
amendment--they did not want to set a date certain for withdrawal and 
tie the hands of their President. They wanted to give him the latitude 
that he needed to insure that the mission in Bosnia met with success; 
to re-establish civility, an effective government, a validated police 
force and civil infrastructure. Today, their position is the opposite. 
President Bush is not setting a date certain as President Clinton had 
done.

Speaker Pelosi, Majority Leader Hoyer and Mr. Murtha all are seeking 
to tie the hands of this President. They want to cut off funds to our 
forces who are only doing what this Congress has asked them to do.

Congress should not tie the hands of the President with a date 
certain for withdrawal from Iraq. Unlike President Clinton with Bosnia, 
President Bush had the approval of Congress to go into Iraq. He has 
given us a plan, conditions that must be met before we start to bring 
our troops home. Yet, Mr. Hoyer and his party want to set an arbitrary 
date, a date certain for withdrawal that does not correspond to those 
conditions whatsoever--cut off funding for our troops who seek only to 
succeed in their mission. This is defeatist strategy.

We need to help establish a stable Iraq before we withdrawal our 
forces--the provisions in this bill do not allow us that flexibility 
and


the price that we will pay is chaos in Iraq and further exposure to 
terror here at home.

The majority leader of the Senate, Harry Reid talks about polling 
data from Senator Schumer that indicate ''political'' gains by their 
party on Iraq. It is unfortunate that the Democrat majority think of 
Iraq in terms of political points, not national security. If we do not 
resolve this issue with immediacy, the readiness of our troops will be 
compromised. They are struggling to determine how they will 
redistribute funds to pay for their operations while we are here 
politicking. We must stop the defeatist strategy of the majority now--
the one by which they hope to gain political capital from to the 
detriment of our troops in the field.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time and move the 
previous question on the resolution.

The previous question was ordered.