# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `8f84d49246d54a6051b8c0a532118297`
`Mr. KYL â€” 13 July 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, let me say two things about this amendment. 
First of all, I hope all of my colleagues will support it because it 
has been amended in a very important way, which I will discuss in a 
moment. But the first thing I want to say is, it is a false choice to 
suggest we should either be fighting in Iraq or going after Osama bin 
Laden. We need to be fighting al-Qaida wherever they are, and we are 
doing that, in Iraq and in the hills of Pakistan and Afghanistan and 
other places where these terrorists might be hiding, to the very best 
of our ability. We cannot leave Iraq to al-Qaida in order to go after 
Osama bin Laden.

To rewrite history here, to somehow suggest we have stopped trying to 
get Osama bin Laden is, I suggest, a willful misrepresentation of what 
our special forces are attempting to do. I agree with the senior 
Senator from Virginia that this is a very difficult and complicated 
matter in dealing with the Government of Pakistan and other issues that 
make it very hard to know precisely where Osama bin Laden is and to be 
able to kill or capture him.

That relates to the second point. When this amendment was drafted, 
there was a glaring problem with it. It increases the reward from $25 
million to $50 million, but the way it was originally written, it was 
written for information ''leading to the capture'' of Osama bin Laden. 
We looked at the amendment and, in astonishment, sought to find the 
rest of the phrase that you usually see there, ''the capture or 
death,'' but it was not there.

I wondered: Is this yet another step in the effort of the majority 
party to make this a criminal effort rather than to acknowledge that 
this is a war against a sworn enemy of the United States? In a war, you 
capture the enemy when you can. When you cannot, if it is necessary to 
kill the enemy, you do. All of this brave talk about getting Osama bin 
Laden and criticism of the administration because we have not gotten 
him seems to me a little bit hollow if the only way we are going to get 
him is to capture him.

Well, sure, it would be great to capture him, but we may have to kill 
him; therefore, the amendment which omitted the potential for killing 
Osama bin Laden was amended by Senator Sununu, who offered a second-
degree amendment to raise the reward from $25 million to $50 million 
for the capture or death or information leading to the capture or death 
of Osama bin Laden. It is under those circumstances that I strongly 
support the amendment, as amended.

But I ask my colleagues on the other side--next week, we are going to 
have some other discussion about language which would criminalize this 
war rather than allowing it to be fought as the war it is against sworn 
enemies of the United States. Are we going to continue this trend where 
we treat it as a matter of criminal law rather than a war? I hope not 
because the other side does not treat it that way.

So having amended the amendment to include ''the capture or death'' 
of Osama bin Laden, I am very happy to support it.