# None
## `8faa7b146d074fe6ba0bba6f0900e579`
`Mr. ENSIGN â€” 8 March 2007`

---


Mr. ENSIGN. Mr. President, I rise today because a daunting task lies 
before us in Iraq. That task is the reconstruction of a war-torn and 
bruised nation. Let's put the battle over a troop surge or increased 
funding aside and join together in a strategy to one day leave Iraq, a 
free Iraq, in a place better than we found it. And not better by our 
standards, but better for the people and future of Iraq.

Last week, a group of airmen from Nellis Air Force Base in my 
hometown were recognized with Bronze Stars for their courageous efforts 
in Iraq. As part of an Explosive Ordnance Disposal team they have done 
remarkable work saving lives. CAPT Brian Castner was awarded the Bronze 
Star after a 6-month tour--his third tour in Iraq. His wife, Jessica, 
said of his mission:




 My grandparents fought in World War II and, because of 


 that, Japan is our friend. And we just hope and pray at night 


 that 30, 50 years from now that for our children and our 


 grandchildren that Iraq will be our friend, and if his 


 efforts today keeping people safe does that, it makes every 


 sleepless night worth it.


If we are going to succeed at making a future friend and ally out of 
Iraq, then we need a new direction forward. Our new military strategy 
must be paired with a new reconstruction strategy in order to cool off 
the vitriolic hatred and violence that has consumed Iraq, and this new 
direction must be based on realistic goals.

When we first liberated Iraq from the brutal dictatorship of Saddam 
Hussein, we were disgusted by the ruler's palaces and extreme wealth in 
contrast with the deplorable conditions of those he ruled. We were 
anxious to give the Iraqi people all that they had lacked. While our 
intentions were good, our expectations were unrealistic and our 
performance failed to deliver.

We looked to build a self-sufficient democratic nation in the Middle 
East with an accompanying civil society, responsible and just court 
system, representative government, responsive police units, a 
respected, and a protected border. We wanted to create a model to which 
people of other states in the region could aspire.

In hindsight, we should not have imagined that building a democracy 
would be so simple. It never has been. We simply did not have the 
strategy and tactics properly prioritized, maybe building the roof 
before the foundation. It is no wonder why our efforts were 
unsuccessful. But it is not too late to regroup. A great deal depends 
on our new direction being successful.

Our policy needs to change from lofty aspirations to a focus on 
providing, as a minimum, the basic services that were available during 
the Saddam Hussein era. At the same time, we need to communicate that 
we are laying the groundwork for future opportunities that were 
unimaginable under that barbaric regime. We need to redirect our 
efforts to vital services such as water and waste water systems, 
irrigation canals, and a reliable electricity supply. Concentrating our 
resources on improving everything simultaneously is foolish and ends up 
being far less efficient. The laundry list of what we initially tried 
to accomplish in Iraq is what scholar Amitai Etzioni calls a 
''scattergun approach.'' We tried to do too many things at once, and 
did none of them really well. Instead, Mr. Etzioni suggests, we need a 
''triage'' approach. We need to make services such as water, sewers, 
and electricity a priority. We work on them until they are successfully 
completed, and then we turn to the next project. While the building of 
banks and schools are important, if Iraqi families can't get running 
water in their homes or more than a few hours of electricity a night, 
why should they trust us? The less tangible gifts of a free democratic 
system are meaningless to a mother caring for her sick child in the 
darkness.

While our priorities have been part of the problem, our attitude may 
have also been a source for our difficulties. A Marine reservist from 
Nevada, Jon Carpenter, who served two tours in Iraq and whose brother 
is there now, told me about the approach taken by those around him to 
the Iraqis. ''Sir, this is your country. What problems do you see that 
need to be addressed and what can I do to assist you in these 
problems,'' they would ask. ''I may have some monetary resources 
coming, some people with skill sets to help you, and my time and energy 
to make the solutions happen. Where would you like to begin?''

If it had been the policy of all our military leaders on the ground 
to give that kind of deference to the local Iraqis, we may have been 
able to build a greater deal of good will and success. And don't get me 
wrong, our men and women in uniform have made tremendous progress in 
Iraq. They have worked tirelessly and have been committed to the cause, 
but we need to understand the importance of successfully delivering the 
most basic services to the Iraqi people as part of their path to self 
sufficiency. It will also create a situation where there is no 
tolerance for insurgents or their efforts to destroy what belongs to 
the Iraqi people.

In order for the Iraqi Government to become self-sufficient, Iraq's 
potential


for producing oil also must be realized. Currently the Iraqis are 
producing roughly 2.1 million barrels of oil a day. This is down from 
the 2.5 million barrels of oil a day produced during the previous 
regime. We need a plan that will reliably deliver 3 million barrels a 
day. At $60 per barrel, the incremental 900,000 barrels per day 
generates nearly $20 billion per year. This would go a very long way 
toward funding many of the improvements that are mandatory to stabilize 
the situation in Iraq.

As report after report indicates, one of the challenges to building 
Iraq's oil revenues has been insurgent attacks against oil 
infrastructure. As Senator Clinton and I wrote in the Wall Street 
Journal, we believe a distribution of revenues to all Iraqis through an 
Iraq Oil Trust would mean they would have a greater incentive to keep 
the oil flowing, help the economy grow, reject the insurgency, inhibit 
corruption and commit to the future of their nation. An Iraq Oil Trust, 
modeled on the Alaskan Permanent Fund, would guarantee that every 
individual Iraqi would share in the country's oil wealth. Oil revenues 
would accrue to the national government and a significant percentage of 
oil revenues would be divided equally among ordinary Iraqis, giving 
every citizen a stake in the nation's recovery and political 
reconciliation and instilling a sense of hope for the promise of 
democratic values.

I know there are plans that distribute the oil revenues to the 
different provinces, but I firmly believe that each Iraqi citizen must 
receive a share--it means a path to opportunity for these people. With 
that share, an Iraqi citizen can make money, invest in a business, use 
it for collateral for a home, or build savings. With that share in an 
Iraq oil trust comes hope for the future.

There is still reason to hope for success in Iraq. Our new military 
strategy is showing progress on the ground, but we must continue to 
give our men and women in uniform the tools they need for the 
monumental task at hand. A focused plan for ''triage'' in the 
reconstruction of Iraq, coupled with a strong military strategy, will 
boost our credibility and secure Iraq for their future and for ours. If 
we don't succeed on the battleground and in the reconstruction efforts, 
we risk creating an enemy state that will be a safe haven for 
terrorists and a grave threat to generations of Americans.

Instead, let us work together to ensure that 50 years from now, our 
friendship with the people of Iraq will be thriving. We owe it to our 
brave men and women, like Captain Castner, to make that vision a 
reality.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.