# None
## `919583ef532b1337ef7f2f84c3cd5f4a`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 21 January 2010`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, as the Senate reconvenes in a new 
calendar year, it is hard not to notice that many of the toughest 
challenges we face in 2010 have been with us for a long time. Among the 
toughest and most persistent of these is the ongoing global war on 
terror. More than 8 years have now passed since September 11, 2001. Yet 
we are reminded every day of the need to remain as vigilant now as we 
were in the weeks and months after that terrible day.

This fact was recently brought home to us in a vivid way when a 
Nigerian-born terrorist attempted to kill nearly 300 innocent people in 
the skies over Detroit on Christmas Day. What could have been a 
terrible tragedy became instead an urgent reminder to remain focused--a 
wake-up call, if you will.

But even before Abdulmutallab boarded the plane, many Americans had 
already begun to wonder whether we had become too slack over the past 
year in the fight against terrorism.

And who could blame them? Time and again, the administration has made 
decisions that suggest a pre-9/11 mindset of prosecution over 
prevention--decisions which have left most Americans scratching their 
heads and concluding that some of the administration's priorities are 
dangerously out of whack. Most Americans did not understand why the 
administration was in such a rush to close Guantanamo, for example, 
before it had a plan for dealing with the dangerous detainees who were 
held there. Most did not see why classified memos detailing 
interrogation techniques that had saved American lives were made public 
and thus available to the very people we are trying to keep from 
harming us. And most recently, most people were shocked again when we 
treated the Christmas Day bomber not as a potentially rich source of 
intelligence for stopping future attacks but as a common criminal who 
needed a lawyer. We should have gotten every bit of information we 
could have about this man's plans, his connections, and his cronies in 
al-Qaida on the Arabian Peninsula. Instead, the administration placed a 
higher priority on reading him his Miranda rights and on getting him a 
lawyer.


Even more outrageous is the administration's plan for getting 
information out of the Christmas Day bomber, offering him a plea 
bargain and a hope he will talk. These are just some of the signs that 
when it comes to prosecuting the war on terror, the administration has 
caused the pendulum to swing too far in the wrong direction.

No one denies a balance must be struck between preserving civil 
liberties and protecting the homeland. No one wants to sacrifice one 
for the other. But in many cases, all that is involved is a simple 
question of judgment. When a judgment call has to be made, our 
priorities should be clear: Keeping Americans safe should always--
always--win out.

Over the past year, the administration has grappled with these 
questions. It sought to find the right balance. In some cases, it has 
gotten it wrong. In others, it has been quite sensible. The President 
was clear and convincing, for example, when he explained our goals in 
Afghanistan last December--to deny al-Qaida a safe haven, to reverse 
the Taliban's momentum and deny it the ability to control population 
centers, and to strengthen the capacity of Afghanistan's security 
forces and government so that they can take the lead


and take responsibility for Afghanistan's future. The President had it 
exactly right. But Americans know that in this fight, in the global war 
on terror, getting the strategy partly right will only lead to partial 
success. As the attempted Christmas Day bombing showed all too plainly, 
partial success isn't good enough.

So today I would like to discuss some of my own impressions of how 
our mission is going in the place where the attacks of September 11, 
2001, were launched, and to describe the mission within the broader 
context of the global war that extends to places such as Yemen and to 
our own borders because success in one place overseas could easily be 
undermined by neglect in another, and success in both could still be 
undermined by neglect at home. We simply cannot prevail in this fight 
if we treat the various elements of it as separate events or if we fail 
to restore the proper balance between safety and civil liberties.

As the years wear on, it is easy for some to forget why we are still 
committing young men and women to fight in far off places such as 
Afghanistan or why our national security interests demand that we 
prevail. That is why it is important for us to recall that al-Qaida and 
other extremists were at war with the United States long before the 
attacks of 9/11.

The World Trade Center had been attacked 8 full years before the 19 
hijackers destroyed it on September 11, 2001. The Khobar Towers bombing 
in 1996 killed 19 U.S. military personnel and injured hundreds more. 
Thousands were injured and hundreds were killed, including a dozen 
Americans, in the East Africa Embassy bombings in Nairobi and Dar es 
Salaam in 1998. That same year, Osama bin Laden declared that ''the 
judgment to kill and fight Americans and their allies, whether civilian 
or military, is an obligation for every Muslim who is able to do so in 
any country.'' A year before 
9/11, al-Qaida attacked the USS Cole, killing 17 sailors and injuring 
dozens more.

So 9/11 may have been the day we realized the consequences of 
inaction, but the pattern of attacks leading up to that day is 
undeniably clear. From the first days after 9/11, our strategy has been 
the same: to deny al-Qaida and its affiliates sanctuary and to deny 
them a staging ground from which they could plan or launch another 
attack on U.S. soil. This is why we resolved shortly after 9/11 to rid 
Afghanistan of the Taliban which had harbored al-Qaida and its leader 
Osama bin Laden.

We had early successes in that effort. By November 2001, the Taliban 
had been driven from Kabul. Soon after that, an international body met 
to name an interim government in Afghanistan to be led by its current 
president, Hamid Karzai.

But despite that early success, al-Qaida's senior leadership was able 
to find a safe haven in Pakistan's tribal areas, and a few years later 
it had regained enough strength to once again pose a serious threat to 
the United States. Meanwhile, the Taliban had reestablished its 
headquarters in Pakistan and gained enough strength as a result of 
inadequate Afghan security forces and poor governance to return to 
Afghanistan and to risk success to our mission there.

By last year, the situation had grown so perilous that our then 
recently appointed top general in Afghanistan, GEN Stanley McChrystal, 
issued a report stating that our failure to gain the initiative and 
reverse the momentum of the Taliban within 12 months could make 
defeating the insurgency impossible. It was largely as a result of that 
assessment that the President agreed last year to send 30,000 more 
troops to Afghanistan.

Earlier this month, I and some of my colleagues had the opportunity 
to visit Afghanistan and Pakistan to assess the situation on the ground 
firsthand. Among other things, we saw progress in the crucial southern 
provinces of Helmand and Kandahar. Although still in the early phases, 
General McChrystal's plan to clear these areas of Taliban, hold 
terrain, control the population, build Afghan security forces, and 
establish a viable government for future and long-term stability shows 
early signs of success, not unlike the kind of success during the surge 
in Iraq.

The Taliban continues to put up a fight. As recently as last week, 
Taliban leaders accused NATO forces of defiling the Koran, a charge 
that led to major protests in Garmsir. This Monday, the Taliban 
demonstrated its lethality when it launched an attack against the heart 
of the government in Kabul. But the bottom line is this: Our commitment 
and that of our partners has given Afghanistan and its government a 
chance to succeed. While ultimate success is far from certain, every 
member of our delegation was impressed with the quality of the people 
we have sent to Afghanistan and with the strategy that General 
McChrystal has put in place.

Pakistan must do its part. The ultimate success of our mission in 
Afghanistan depends upon the continued efforts of the Government of 
Pakistan to fight extremist networks in the tribal areas. Over the last 
year, Pakistan has waged aggressive campaigns in the Swat Valley and in 
South Waziristan. After meeting with the Pakistani Army's chief of 
staff and with Prime Minister Gilani, we concluded they genuinely 
believe their national interests will be served in defeating the 
Pakistani Taliban. Still, action against the Quetta Shura, the 
leadership of the Afghan Taliban harbored just across the border in 
neighboring Pakistan, isn't likely to occur until the Pakistanis are 
convinced--convinced--that the United States has the endurance to 
remain committed in both Pakistan and Afghanistan and to defeat the 
Taliban in Afghanistan as well. In this regard, the leaders we spoke to 
in both countries were clearly troubled by the Obama administration's 
announced deadline of July 2011 for the withdrawal of U.S. forces.

We saw firsthand on our trip that the fight in Afghanistan and 
Pakistan is difficult, and the situation is fragile. But complicating 
matters even further is the resilience and determination of al-Qaida 
and its affiliates, and we must not fail to appreciate all the 
implications of this. In this regard, the administration showed a 
shocking lack of common sense when it failed to treat the Christmas Day 
bomber as an enemy combatant, instead reading him his Miranda rights 
and giving him a lawyer.

As I said earlier, in my view, the administration has on a number of 
instances struck the wrong balance over the past year between safety 
and civil liberties. Its preference for prosecuting a terrorist like 
the Christmas Day bomber in civilian courts shows a dangerous 
preoccupation with prosecution over prevention, just as its hasty 
decision to close Guantanamo showed a preoccupation with symbolism over 
security.

But whether it is Guantanamo, interrogation memos, or prosecuting 
terrorists in civilian courts, many of the administration's priorities 
in this fight appear to be dangerously misplaced. Take the case of 
Khalid Shaikh Mohammed. Here is the man who admits to planning the most 
catastrophic terrorist attack in U.S. history--nearly 3,000 people dead 
on our own soil in a single day. Yet once in court, he will enjoy all 
the rights and privileges of an American citizen. Classified 
information may be compromised, as it has been many times before in 
such cases. The consequences are easy to imagine.


Trying KSM in a civilian court makes even less sense in light of the 
fact the administration has decided to prosecute other foreign 
terrorists in a military commission, creating a baffling scenario in 
which those who target innocent people in the homeland are treated 
better than those who attack a military target overseas.

The administration also needs to ensure that our intelligence 
professionals and men and women in uniform are free to gather 
intelligence from detainees wherever they are captured. A U.S. marine 
assigned to a NATO-led security and development mission in Afghanistan 
shouldn't have to release or turn over a captured terrorist within 96 
hours, as is now the case, nor should the Christmas Day bomber be 
treated as a common criminal at home when the nation where he met his 
al-Qaida handlers, Yemen, is actively pursuing al-Qaida in the Arabian 
Peninsula.

The intelligence community must be able to gather information from 
detainees in a way that is lawful and which protects American lives. 
Equilibrium between safety and civil liberties must be restored, and 
currently


it is not, in my view. A plea bargain for a terrorist who tried to blow 
a plane out of the sky on Christmas Day? It is wrong to think that al-
Qaida would not use a civilian courtroom in New York or a long-term 
detention facility inside the United States for the same recruiting and 
propaganda purposes for which they have used other courts and 
Guantanamo in the past. This fact alone eliminates the administration's 
only justification for closing Guantanamo--that it was some kind of 
recruitment tool.

We need a place to send terrorists like the Christmas Day bomber--and 
that place is not a civilian courtroom or a prison in the Midwest. Once 
here, these terrorists will enjoy new legal rights, including, quite 
possibly, the right to be released into our country, as one Federal 
judge previously ordered with respect to a group of detainees from 
GTMO.

The war on al-Qaida will continue for years to come. In order to 
prevail, we must not only remain focused on the threat but also reliant 
on the reasonable tools that have served us well in the past. For 
example, now is not the time to experiment with the PATRIOT Act. We 
should clearly reauthorize its expiring provisions rather than 
eliminate one of them, sunset another, and tinker with those that 
remain, as the administration or some of its congressional allies 
propose.

As we continue to pursue this global network, we will rely more 
heavily on intelligence personnel, a point that was recently 
underscored by the December 30 suicide attack that killed seven CIA 
employees in Afghanistan. We mourn the loss of these brave Americans. 
Their sacrifice, along with the attempted Christmas Day bombing and the 
recent plot to attack the New York subway system, reminds us that the 
threat from al-Qaida and other extremists to our homeland has not--I 
repeat, not--diminished.

But in its eagerness to distinguish its own policies from those of 
the past, the administration has gone way too far. The reaction to the 
attempted Christmas Day bombing offered conclusive proof. Hoping that 
terrorists are incompetent is not enough to defeat them; and showing 
more concern about their Miranda rights than the right of Americans to 
be safe suggests a fundamental and dangerous shift in the priorities 
since 9/11.


The good news is this: The administration is doing the right thing in 
Afghanistan. If it recognizes some of its errors in the broader fight, 
there is good reason to hope historians will look back on 2010 as the 
turning point not only in our fight with the Taliban but also as the 
year in which America achieved a balance in the war against al-Qaida.

Soon we will have an opportunity to make a good first step in the 
direction of bipartisan balance. Once the Congress receives the war 
funding request from the Defense Department and the administration, the 
Senate can demonstrate a new unity of purpose by quickly considering 
this legislation. This would signal our resolve not only to Americans 
but to our allies and to our forces in the field. This is not too much 
to hope for, and it is not too much to expect. Bipartisanship is not 
always easy to come by in Washington, but in the war on terror it is 
necessary, and in my view it is achievable.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.