# MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO PROVISION GRANTING SPECIAL IMMIGRANT  STATUS FOR CERTAIN IRAQIS
## `92723fac8bf25e5ccaeed0db598cb134`
`Mr. SCOTT of Virginia â€” 19 May 2008`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, again, we have seen ongoing news reports that those who 
have chosen to help us in our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan are 
risking their lives for our Nation's interests, and it is appropriate 
that we give them assistance.

This bill is exactly what we thought we had done earlier in the year. 
This is a technical correction. It's not a change in policy. It is what 
we thought we were doing. In fact, I'm surprised we have opposition 
because we didn't think it was controversial. The Senate bill, just to 
read the original cosponsors, the Senate bill was introduced by 
Senators Kennedy and Lugar with bipartisan cosponsorship of Senators 
Leahy, Cornyn, Biden, McCain, Levin, Specter, Obama, Hagel, Durbin, 
Sununu, Cardin, Smith, Coleman, and Bond. An identical bill was 
introduced in the House by the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Zoe 
Lofgren) with original cosponsorship of Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. Conyers, 
Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Skelton, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Berman, Ms. Ros-
Lehtinen, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. 
Pence, and Ms. Jackson-Lee of Texas.

Obviously those broad bipartisan cosponsors suggest that this is 
something that should not be controversial, especially when you 
consider it also has the strong support of the Department of Defense, 
the Department of State, and the Department of Homeland Security.

I would hope, Mr. Speaker, that we adopt the bill and do what we 
thought we were doing in January to protect our friends who have 
protected us.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.