# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `9363c4e1c31ba052a8c76417ecded05e`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 25 January 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, I rise today in honor of MAJ Andrew 
Olmsted, who was killed on January 3 in an attack near Sadiyah, Iraq. 
Major Olmsted was assigned to the 1st Brigade of the 1st Infantry 
Division out of Fort Riley, KS, but he and his wife, Amanda Wilson, 
lived together in Colorado Springs, CO. Andrew was 37 years old. He was 
the first American casualty in Iraq of 2008.

Major Olmsted was a proud soldier whose sense of duty took him to 
Iraq--whose commitment to his fellow soldiers earned him their deepest 
respect--and whose compassion put him in the line of fire the day he 
died.

Andrew was also an exceptionally talented writer. He shared his 
experiences and perspectives in Iraq with the world on blogs, including 
one he wrote for the Rocky Mountain News entitled ''From the Front 
Lines.'' The thousands of readers who followed Andrew's deployment had 
the privilege of his frank, thoughtful, stirring, and often humorous 
take on the war, the Army, and politics.

For a writer and reporter as gifted as Andrew, it is hard to find the 
words to properly honor his life and his sacrifice. I would rather let 
him speak for himself and reflect on his memory by sharing with my 
colleagues portions of Major Olmsted's final posting. He asked a friend 
to post this on his blog in the event of his death. In its eloquence, 
power, humor, and tragedy, it is one small way in which we may remember 
the mark that Andrew made on our world:




 This is an entry I would have preferred not to have 


 published, but there are limits to what we can control in 


 life, and apparently I have passed one of those limits. . . .



 What I don't want this to be is a chance for me, or anyone 


 else, to be maudlin. I'm dead. That sucks, at least for me 


 and my family and friends. But all the tears in the world 


 aren't going to bring me back, so I would prefer that people 


 remember the good things about me rather than mourning my 


 loss. (If it turns out a specific number of tears will, in 


 fact, bring me back to life, then by all means, break out the 


 onions.)



 I had a pretty good life, as I noted above. Sure, all 


 things being equal I would have preferred to have more time, 


 but I have no business complaining with all the good fortune 


 I've enjoyed in my life. So if you're up for




 that, put on a little 80s music (preferably vintage 1980-


 1984), grab a Coke and have a drink with me. If you have it, 


 throw ''Freedom Isn't Free'' from the Team America soundtrack 


 in; if you can't laugh at that song, I think you need to 


 lighten up a little. I'm dead, but if you're reading this, 


 you're not, so take a moment to enjoy that happy fact. . . .



 I suppose I should speak to the circumstances of my death. 


 It would be nice to believe that I died leading men in 


 battle, preferably saving their lives at the cost of my own. 


 More likely I was caught by a marksman or an IED. But if 


 there is an afterlife, I'm telling anyone who asks that I 


 went down surrounded by hundreds of insurgents defending a 


 village composed solely of innocent women and children. It'll 


 be our little secret, ok?



 I do ask (not that I'm in a position to enforce this) that 


 no one try to use my death to further their political 


 purposes. I went to Iraq and did what I did for my reasons, 


 not yours. My life isn't a chit to be used to bludgeon people 


 to silence on either side. If you think the U.S. should stay 


 in Iraq, don't drag me into it by claiming that somehow my 


 death demands us staying in Iraq. If you think the U.S. ought 


 to get out tomorrow, don't cite my name as an example of 


 someone's life who was wasted by our mission in Iraq. I have 


 my own opinions about what we should do about Iraq, but since 


 I'm not around to expound on them I'd prefer others not try 


 and use me as some kind of moral capital to support a 


 position I probably didn't support. Further, this is tough 


 enough on my family without their having to see my picture 


 being used in some rally or my name being cited for some 


 political purpose. You can fight political battles without 


 hurting my family, and I'd prefer that you did so.



 On a similar note, while you're free to think whatever you 


 like about my life and death, if you think I wasted my life, 


 I'll tell you you're wrong. We're all going to die of 


 something. I died doing a job I loved. When your time comes, 


 I hope you are as fortunate as I was. . . .



 Those who know me through my writings on the Internet over 


 the past five-plus years probably have wondered at times 


 about my chosen profession. While I am not a Libertarian, I 


 certainly hold strongly individualistic beliefs. Yet I have 


 spent my life in a profession that is not generally known for 


 rugged individualism. Worse, I volunteered to return to 


 active duty knowing that the choice would almost certainly 


 lead me to Iraq. The simple explanation might be that I was 


 simply stupid, and certainly I make no bones about having 


 done some dumb things in my life, but I don't think this can 


 be chalked up to stupidity. Maybe I was inconsistent in my 


 beliefs; there are few people who adhere religiously to the 


 doctrines of their chosen philosophy, whatever that may be. 


 But I don't think that was the case in this instance either.



 As passionate as I am about personal freedom, I don't buy 


 the claims of anarchists that humanity would be just fine 


 without any government at all. There are too many people in 


 the world who believe that they know best how people should 


 live their lives, and many of them are more than willing to 


 use force to impose those beliefs on others. A world without 


 government simply wouldn't last very long; as soon as it was 


 established, strongmen would immediately spring up to 


 establish their fiefdoms. So there is a need for government 


 to protect the people's rights. And one of the fundamental 


 tools to do that is an army that can prevent outside agencies 


 from imposing their rules on a society. A lot of people will 


 protest that argument by noting that the people we are 


 fighting in Iraq are unlikely to threaten the rights of the 


 average American. That's certainly true; while our enemies 


 would certainly like to wreak great levels of havoc on our 


 society, the fact is they're not likely to succeed. But that 


 doesn't mean there isn't still a need for an army (setting 


 aside debates regarding whether ours is the right size at the 


 moment). Americans are fortunate that we don't have to worry 


 too much about people coming to try and overthrow us, but 


 part of the reason we don't have to worry about that is 


 because we have an army that is stopping anyone who would 


 try.



 Soldiers cannot have the option of opting out of missions 


 because they don't agree with them: that violates the social 


 contract. The duly-elected American government decided to go 


 to war in Iraq. (Even if you maintain President Bush was not 


 properly elected, Congress voted for war as well.) As a 


 soldier, I have a duty to obey the orders of the President of 


 the United States as long as they are constitutional. I can 


 no more opt out of missions I disagree with than I can ignore 


 laws I think are improper. I do not consider it a violation 


 of my individual rights to have gone to Iraq on orders 


 because I raised my right hand and volunteered to join the 


 army. Whether or not this mission was a good one, my 


 participation in it was an affirmation of something I 


 consider quite necessary to society. So if nothing else, I 


 gave my life for a pretty important principle; I can (if 


 you'll pardon the pun) live with that. . . .



 I write this in part, admittedly, because I would like to 


 think that there's at least a little something out there to 


 remember me by. Granted, this site will eventually vanish, 


 being ephemeral in a very real sense of the word, but at 


 least for a time it can serve as a tiny record of my 


 contributions to the world. But on a larger scale, for those 


 who knew me well enough to be saddened by my death, 


 especially for those who haven't known anyone else lost to 


 this war, perhaps my death can serve as a small reminder of 


 the costs of war. Regardless of the merits of this war, or of 


 any war, I think that many of us in America have forgotten 


 that war means death and suffering in wholesale lots. A 


 decision that for most of us in America was academic, whether 


 or not to go to war in Iraq, had very real consequences for 


 hundreds of thousands of people. Yet I was as guilty as 


 anyone of minimizing those very real consequences in lieu of 


 a cold discussion of theoretical merits of war and peace. Now 


 I'm facing some very real consequences of that decision; who 


 says life doesn't have a sense of humor? . . .



 But for those who knew me and feel this pain, I think it's 


 a good thing to realize that this pain has been felt by 


 thousands and thousands (probably millions, actually) of 


 other people all over the world. That is part of the cost of 


 war, any war, no matter how justified. If everyone who feels 


 this pain keeps that in mind the next time we have to decide 


 whether or not war is a good idea, perhaps it will help us to 


 make a more informed decision. Because it is pretty clear 


 that the average American would not have supported the Iraq 


 War had they known the costs going in. I am far too cynical 


 to believe that any future debate over war will be any less 


 vitriolic or emotional, but perhaps a few more people will 


 realize just what those costs can be the next time.



 This may be a contradiction of my above call to keep 


 politics out of my death, but I hope not. Sometimes going to 


 war is the right idea. I think we've drawn that line too far 


 in the direction of war rather than peace, but I'm a soldier 


 and I know that sometimes you have to fight if you're to hold 


 onto what you hold dear. But in making that decision, I 


 believe we understate the costs of war; when we make the 


 decision to fight, we make the decision to kill, and that 


 means lives and families destroyed. Mine now falls into that 


 category; the next time the question of war or peace comes 


 up, if you knew me at least you can understand a bit more 


 just what it is you're deciding to do, and whether or not 


 those costs are worth it.



 ''This is true love. You think this happens every day?''--


 Westley, The Princess Bride



 ''Good night, my love, the brightest star in my sky.''--


 John Sheridan, Babylon 5



 This is the hardest part. While I certainly have no desire 


 to die, at this point I no longer have any worries. That is 


 not true of the woman who made my life something to enjoy 


 rather than something merely to survive. She put up with all 


 of my faults, and they are myriad, she endured separations 


 again and again . . . I cannot imagine being more fortunate 


 in love than I have been with Amanda. Now she has to go on 


 without me, and while a cynic might observe she's better off, 


 I know that this is a terrible burden I have placed on her, 


 and I would give almost anything if she would not have to 


 bear it. It seems that is not an option. I cannot imagine 


 anything more painful than that, and if there is an 


 afterlife, this is a pain I'll bear forever.



 I wasn't the greatest husband. I could have done so much 


 more, a realization that, as it so often does, comes too late 


 to matter. But I cherished every day I was married to Amanda. 


 When everything else in my life seemed dark, she was always 


 there to light the darkness. It is difficult to imagine my 


 life being worth living without her having been in it. I hope 


 and pray that she goes on without me and enjoys her life as 


 much as she deserves. I can think of no one more deserving of 


 happiness than her.



 ''I will see you again, in the place where no shadows 


 fall.''--Ambassador Delenn, Babylon 5



 I don't know if there is an afterlife; I tend to doubt it, 


 to be perfectly honest. But if there is any way possible, 


 Amanda, then I will live up to Delenn's words, somehow, some 


 way. I love you.


Mr. President, our thoughts and prayers are with Amanda, Andrew's 
parents, and all of his family. May they soon find comfort and respite 
from their grief. May we always remember Andrew for his life, service, 
and sacrifice. And may countless others have the blessing of reading 
his words.











 Staff Sergeant Justin R. Whiting 


Madam President, I rise today to honor the memory of SSG Justin R. 
Whiting, a Green Beret with the 3rd Battalion, 5th Special Forces 
Group, out of Fort Campbell, KY. On January 19, Sergeant Whiting was 
leading a convoy through the streets of Mosul, Iraq, when a bomb 
exploded near his vehicle. He was killed at 27 years old.

Sergeant Whiting was born in Belton, TX, but at a young age moved to 
Hancock, NY, where he developed a love for the great outdoors. Justin 
was an avid hunter who reveled in the rugged landscape near the 
Delaware River.

Those who knew him describe Sergeant Whiting as an adventurer. It was 
this virtue, coupled with his deep-seated love for his country, which 
led him to join the Army just 2 months after his high school 
graduation.

In the Army, he chose the most difficult path he could pursue, that 
of becoming a Green Beret. The Special


Forces soldiers I know are the pride of our country. All at once, they 
are soldiers, intelligence officers, diplomats, tacticians, linguists, 
trainers, and advisors. They are at the tip of the spear of our 
national defense. The Green Beret that they wear, said President 
Kennedy, is ''a symbol of excellence, a badge of courage, a mark of 
distinction in the fight for freedom.''

Sergeant Whiting was on his third tour in Iraq, on a mission to help 
bring security and stability to a region torn by violence and tragedy. 
Every day, he and his unit put themselves in harm's way to give Iraqi 
citizens a chance at a society governed by the rule of law, free from 
the threats of sectarian strife, terrorism, or autocratic rule. He 
served bravely and was highly decorated. Among many other honors, he 
earned the Bronze Star, one of the highest awards given for combat 
service, for his bravery and selflessness.

For those of us who did not know Justin personally, it is difficult 
to know what inspired his extraordinary sense of duty or what fueled 
his courage on the battlefield. Alexander Hamilton, a Founding Father 
and an Army officer, explained that ''There is a certain enthusiasm in 
liberty that makes human nature rise above itself in acts of bravery 
and heroism.'' I imagine that Justin found his strength in many 
sources--friends, family, and fellow soldiers--but I imagine that he, 
too, was motivated by an enthusiasm for liberty and a passion for 
justice. In his life, he consistently chose the path that was most 
challenging so that he could offer our country his highest service. He 
was a true patriot.

To Justin's mother, Estelline, to his father, Randall, to his sister, 
Amanda, and to his brother, Nathan, our thoughts and prayers are with 
you. I hope that in time, your grief will be assuaged by the pride you 
must feel in Justin's service and by the honor he bestowed upon his 
country. May we never forget his service and his sacrifice.
