# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `936318cce2415d9e433ede6ccf1a3a6f`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida â€” 30 July 2009`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the 
amendment.

I stand in vigorous support of my request for a Gulf Range Mobile 
Instrumentation Capability. This capability will convey enormous long-
term benefits and provide weapons systems in a cost effective manner on 
time.














 District Introduction


For those of you that don't know, I represent the First District of 
Florida, which is home to Eglin Air Force Base, Air Force Special 
Operations Command, Naval Air Stations Pensacola and Whiting Field, 
Corry Station, which hosts the Center for Information Dominance and is 
the proud future home of the Joint Strike Fighter.














 Argument/Justification


The project fufills a critical need. Specifically at Eglin Air Force 
Base, the 46th Range Group has a need for a capability for remote test, 
collection, storage and relay of various types of data. This capability 
can be accomplished with a Gulf Range Mobile Instrumentation 
Capability. This capability is needed to support test events which 
occur over large geographic areas on both land and sea. Examples of 
this testing includes Live, Virtual, Constructive test events, large 
footprint weapons testing, Directed Energy testing, and hypersonic 
testing.

This capability does not exist because there is a shortfall across 
this nation in both adequate range space and instrumentation to 
realistically test today's long-range stand-off weapons. This problem 
is expanding with the enhanced performance of weapons in development. 
The Eglin range remains one of the only locations to test these weapons 
over its enormous land and water area. The instrumentation shortfalls 
can and should be addressed today. This project would develop mobile 
data acquisition capabilities to address the need for cost efficient 
operations involving remote areas with multiple ranges across the 
nation. As a simple example, extending a datalink, much like a wireless 
network, over 150 nautical miles into the Gulf would greatly support 
test operations. Test professionals need this capability and it will 
help ensure that our defense test and evaluation capabilities field 
cost-effective systems.

Developmental test and evaluation brings new capabilities to the 
battlefield and saves lives. I have had the opportunity to watch some 
of the magnificent testing conducted on the Eglin range. The 46th Test 
Wing completed testing last year on the small diameter


bomb and it is now being employed for F-15E Strike Eagles in 
Afghanistan because it offers unique low-collateral damage capability. 
This testing could be expedited and improved with the instrumentation 
capability we are discussing now. Future weapons testing includes 
Tomahawk, Joint Direct Attack Munition, Non-Line of Sight-Launch 
System, and continued testing of the Small Diameter Bomb. These 
programs will all benefit from increased safety, shorter tests, and a 
better product. In the end, this will convey benefits to Military 
activities across the nation, as we eventually link geographically 
separate ranges.

The T&E infrastructure, whether administered by a military service or 
by a Defense Department entity, continues to be a target for budget 
cuts year after year. In a recent letter I sent to the Secretary of 
Defense, and the Undersecretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, 
and Logistics, I questioned why the 2010 funding for Test and 
Evaluation is $57.9 million below last year's level and noted that such 
a lack of funding could negatively impact numerous critical Department 
of Defense programs.

Five senators, including Senator Martinez and Senator Nelson, 
recently sent a letter to Chairman Inouye and Senator Cochran 
identifying two Test and Evaluation budget shortfalls in the FY2010 
Budget. In fact, Congress created the Director of Test Resource 
Management in 2003 and in conjunction with the Director of Operational 
Test and Evaluation, the DTRMC is supposed to be afforded the 
opportunity to certify each military service's budget every year before 
it is submitted to Congress. Due to the new Administration and 
different budget submission timelines, the DTRMC was not able to 
certify the services' budgets for the Fiscal Year 2010 submission. In 
the wake of acquisition reform, the Administration must fund areas that 
contribute to long-term cost savings.

I am looking forward to seeing the contributions of the Gulf Range 
Mobile Instrumentation Capability to future weapon systems. This 
capability is a critical need because a shortage exists across the 
nation of adequate instrumentation systems. However, investments in 
test and evaluation infrastructure provide magnified benefits because 
they affect so many weapon systems. The right test resources provide 
weapon systems on time, in a cost-effective manner.