# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `93b7500aa612066439dc58c5782b81d7`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I will vote for this Defense 
Supplemental appropriations bill.

Whatever some may say, I think it would be grossly irresponsible to 
vote against it. That would be to vote against providing America's men 
and women in uniform with the equipment and resources they need and 
against providing them the best health care they may require when they 
come home.

I understand why some are urging a vote against the bill. Many 
Americans are frustrated and angry because we are four years into a war 
the Bush Administration assured us would be short and decisive. The 
Administration's misjudgments, lack of planning and poor leadership 
have made a bad situation worse. So there are many who do not trust the 
Bush Administration to find a way to end this war, and who believe 
Congress should simply act to cut off additional funds.

But whatever may be said about the wisdom of invading Iraq four years 
ago--and I am one who believed it was a mistake to do so--the fact is 
that we are still deeply engaged in Iraq. We also must finish the job 
of securing Afghanistan and defeating the Taliban and al-Qaeda. So long 
as our troops are in the field, we must provide them what they need 
even as we move to change the mistaken policies of the Administration 
in Iraq.

This bill begins that change. It includes important language to hold 
the president accountable to the benchmarks set by his own 
administration and the Iraqi government.

Those benchmarks were outlined in January, when President Bush 
announced that the Iraqi government had agreed to pursue all 
extremists, Shiite and Sunni alike; to deliver Iraqi Security Forces to 
Baghdad to join in the ''surge''; and to establish a strong militia 
disarmament program. President Bush also announced that Prime Minister 
Maliki and his government agreed to pursue reconciliation initiatives, 
including enactment of a hydro-carbon law; conducting of provincial and 
local elections; reform of current laws governing the de-Baathification 
process; amendment of the Constitution of Iraq; and allocation of Iraqi 
revenues for reconstruction projects.

By holding the president and the Iraqi government accountable for 
achieving these benchmarks, this bill will provide General Petraeus and 
the Administration with the leverage necessary to help the Iraqi 
government forge a political solution. And we all know that it will 
take a political solution--not a military one--to end this war.

The bill is an important step toward what I think must be our goal--a 
responsible end to the war in Iraq, based on a strategy of phased 
withdrawal of troops, accelerated diplomacy and redeployment that is 
based on Iraqi stability and not arbitrary deadlines.

It is true that this legislation includes a date certain for 
withdrawing U.S. combat troops from Iraq. I do not believe this 
language is wise and were it up to me, this provision would not be 
included in the bill. As a matter of national security policy, we 
should steer clear of arbitrary public deadlines and focus instead on 
realistic goals. Our military needs flexibility to be able to link 
movements of U.S. troops to the realities of the situation on the 
ground.

The deadline established in this bill--August of 2008--is far enough 
away that I believe we may be able to revisit it if need be, and while 
I find its inclusion troubling, I do not believe in letting the perfect 
be the enemy of the good. And the bill's language does give the 
president flexibility to protect U.S. interests, since it allows 
sufficient troops to remain to protect U.S. military and civilians in 
Iraq, conduct counterterrorism operations, and train Iraqi Security 
Forces.

The bill also protects our troops by limiting deployment schedules 
and setting minimum readiness standards--based on current Defense 
Department standards--for U.S. troops deploying to the region. The 
president could


waive these requirements but only by certifying in writing to Congress 
that waiving them would be in the interest of national security.

The bill also includes many provisions important to our troops, such 
as funds for military personnel for imminent danger pay, family 
separation allowances, and basic allowances for housing; funds for 
recruiting and retention in the Army Reserve and National Guard; and 
funds to develop countermeasures to prevent attacks from improvised 
explosive devices. The bill recommends the creation of a new Strategic 
Readiness Reserve fund, and provides $2.5 billion for the program, 
which is intended to improve readiness, training and equipping of U.S. 
forces not already deployed.

Given the recent revelations about problems with the defense health 
system at Walter Reed and other facilities across the system, I am very 
pleased that the bill provides $2.8 billion for military health care 
costs and $1.7 billion for initiatives to address the health care needs 
of Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans, particularly those suffering from 
traumatic brain injury and post traumatic stress disorder. Funding is 
also included to address facility deficiencies so the Department of 
Veterans Affairs does not have to defer facility maintenance and upkeep 
in order to provide quality health care services.

The bill also provides $52.5 billion for military operations in Iraq 
and Afghanistan and funds the $5.9 billion request for the Afghan 
Security Forces and the $3.8 billion request for Iraq Security Forces.

And the bill includes $3.1 billion to fully fund the Pentagon's FY07 
request for the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Commission's 
recommendations, which is vitally important for Ft. Carson as it 
prepares to expand and for other military installations in Colorado.

On the non-military side, the bill includes critically important 
funding for farmers and ranchers in southeastern Colorado who were 
recently hit hard by winter storms. Thousands of cattle were killed in 
storms worse than the October 1997 storm that killed approximately 
30,000 cattle and cost farmers and ranchers an estimated $28 million. 
The struggles that family agriculture producers and small counties face 
are significant and are having a negative impact on the livelihood of 
hundreds of farmers and ranchers and their communities. So I am pleased 
that the Colorado delegation was successful in persuading the House 
leadership to include financial assistance for farmers and ranchers, 
including for those affected by Colorado's recent blizzards, and I am 
hopeful that the funding will be included in the final conference 
report.


Mr. Speaker, we have entered the 5th year of the war in Iraq. 
Already, more than 3,200 of our men and women in uniform have made the 
ultimate sacrifice in the performance of their duty. More than 24,000 
others have been wounded. The Iraqi death toll is at least 60,000, with 
more than 650,000 other Iraqis displaced and at least one million who 
have fled to Syria and Jordan and other countries.

Even these heavy costs are not the whole story, because nation-
building in Iraq has degraded our ability to counter other threats to 
our national security around the globe. As a member of the Armed 
Services Committee, I am all too aware of the pressures on our active 
duty and National Guard and reserve soldiers, including a lack of 
equipment and training, multiple or extended deployments, and limited 
time at home between deployments. To be successful, U.S. forces must be 
trained, equipped, and ready to quickly deploy worldwide. Shortfalls in 
personnel, equipment, or training increase the risk to our troops and 
to their mission.

Mr. Speaker, many of us who voted against authorizing the President 
to rush to war in Iraq were worried that while it would be easy to 
eliminate the Saddam Hussein regime, the aftermath would be neither 
easy nor quick. Sadly, our fears have proven to be justified. And now, 
as the Pentagon has finally admitted in its most recent quarterly 
report, the situation in Iraq is ''properly descriptive of a civil 
war.''

Insisting on keeping our troops in the middle of that kind of 
internecine war is not a recipe for victory; it is only a prescription 
for quagmire. And as a new Foreign Relations Council report notes, we 
bear responsibility for developments within Iraq, but are increasingly 
without the ability to shape those developments in a positive 
direction.

We need to be scaling back our military mission in Iraq. We need to 
make the U.S. military footprint lighter--not in order to hasten defeat 
or failure in Iraq, but to salvage a critical measure of security and 
stability in a region of the world that we can ill afford to abandon.

But as we do so, we must work to avoid a collapse in the region--not 
only because we have a moral obligation to the people of Iraq, but also 
because our national security has been so badly compromised by the Bush 
administration's failures there. The President's decision to take the 
nation to war has made our country less safe. We need to change course 
and chart a path that enhances our national security and sets the right 
priorities for the war on terrorism and struggle against extremists.

This bill begins to chart this path, and I will support it.