# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `94470cf01d6f44f6a7511e59ca422fb7`
`Mr. HATCH â€” 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to 
reauthorize the Traumatic Brain Injury Act. It is my pleasure to be 
joined in this effort by the Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, 
Labor and Pension Committee, Senator Ted Kennedy, with whom I worked on 
the original legislation over 10 years ago.

Sustaining a traumatic brain injury--or TBI--can be both catastrophic 
and devastating. The financial and emotional costs to the individual, 
family, and community are enormous. Traumatic brain injuries contribute 
to a substantial number of deaths and cases of permanent disability 
annually.

Individuals with TBI and their families are often faced with 
challenges, such as improper diagnosis, inability to access support or 
rehabilitation services, institutional segregation, unemployment, and 
being forced to navigate complicated and cumbersome service and support 
systems.

Of the 1.4 million who sustain a TBI each year in the United States: 
50,000 die; 235,000 are hospitalized; and 1.1 million are treated and 
released from an emergency department. Brain injuries are the most 
frequent reasons for visits to physicians and emergency rooms.

These statistics are more revealing when one considers that every 16 
seconds someone in the U.S. sustains a head injury; and every 12 
minutes, one of these people will die and another will become 
permanently disabled. Of those who survive, each year, an estimated 
80,000 to 90,000 people experience the onset of long-term disability 
associated with a TBI. An additional 2,000 will exist in a persistent 
vegetative state.

Even more startling is the fact that brain injury kills more 
Americans under the age of 34 than all other causes combined and has 
claimed more lives since the turn of the century than all United States 
wars combined.

Recent publicity about brain injuries Americans have sustained in 
Iraq points out that TBI is an everyday threat to our servicemen and 
servicewomen--68 percent of war veterans are returning home with 
sustained brain injuries. According to the Defense and Veterans Brain 
Injury Center, which serves active duty military, their dependents and 
veterans with TBI, traumatic brain injury is one of the leading causes 
of death and disability on today's battlefield. While not specifically 
addressed by this bill, the Federal TBI program helps to provide 
resources that supplement the networks which serve our returning 
soldiers.

The distress of TBI is not limited to diagnosis. A survivor of a 
severe brain injury typically faces 5 to 10 years of intensive services 
and estimated lifetime costs can exceed $4 million. Direct medical 
costs and indirect costs such as lost productivity of TBI totaled an 
estimated $60 billion in the United States in 2000.

To recognize the large number of individuals and families struggling 
to access appropriate and community-based services, Senator Kennedy and 
I wrote the TBI Act of 1996, PL 104-166.

The TBI Act of 1996 launched an effort to conduct expanded studies 
and to establish innovative programs for TBI. It gave the Health 
Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) authority to establish a 
grant program for States to assist it in addressing the needs of 
individuals with TBI and their families. It also delegated 
responsibilities in the areas of research, prevention, and surveillance 
to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC), respectively.

Title XIII of the Children's Health Act of 2000, PL 106-310, 
reauthorized the programs of the TBI Act of 1996. This reauthorization 
also added a provision on protection and advocacy, P&A, services for 
individuals with TBI and their families by authorizing HRSA to make 
grants to State P&A Systems.

The Traumatic Brain Injury Act is the only Federal legislation that 
specifically addresses issues faced by 5.3 million American children 
and adults who live with a long-term disability as a result of 
traumatic brain injury. Reauthorization of the Traumatic Brain Injury 
Act will provide for the continuation of research, not only for the 
treatment of TBI, but also for prevention and awareness programs which 
will help decrease the occurrence of traumatic brain injury and improve 
the long-term outcome.

This legislation authorizes the Health Resources and Services 
Administration, HRSA, to make grants for projects of national 
significance that improve individual and family access to service 
systems; assist States in developing service capacity; improve 
monitoring and evaluation of rehabilitation services and supports; and 
address emerging needs of servicemen and women, veterans, and 
individuals and families who have experienced


brain injury through service delivery demonstration projects.

This bill also authorizes HRSA to include the American Indian 
Consortium as an eligible recipient of competitive grants awarded to 
States, Territories, and the District of Columbia to develop 
comprehensive system of services and supports nationwide.

Furthermore, this bill instructs HRSA and the Administration on 
Developmental Disabilities to coordinate data collection regarding 
protection and advocacy services.

Also funded by the TBI program, the CDC supports multiple projects 
and programs, including those that monitor TBI, link people with TBI to 
information about services, and prevent TBI-related disabilities. These 
projects comprise initiatives such as generating national estimates for 
TBI deaths, hospitalizations, and emergency department visits; planning 
the future of TBI registries and data systems; and educating health 
care professionals about TBI. In addition, the CDC funds TBI research 
in various academic institutions to investigate TBI in children and 
adolescents.

This year, Congress has an opportunity to strengthen the TBI Act by 
authorizing the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, CDC, to 
determine the incidence and prevalence of traumatic brain injury in the 
general population of the United States, including all age groups and 
persons in institutional settings such as nursing homes, correctional 
facilities, psychiatric hospitals, child care facilities, and 
residential institutes for people with developmental disabilities.

Brain injury is a complex issue and there is still much unknown. With 
Federal funds provided within the TBI program, researchers at the NIH 
are studying many issues related to the special cognitive and 
communication problems experienced by individuals who have traumatic 
brain injuries. Scientists are designing new evaluation tools to assess 
the special problems that children who have suffered traumatic brain 
injuries encounter. Because the brain of a child is vastly different 
from the brain of an adult, scientists are also examining the effects 
of various treatment methods that have been developed specifically for 
children. In addition, research is examining the effects of some 
medications on the recovery of speech, language, and cognitive 
abilities following traumatic brain injury. Reauthorization of the TBI 
program will enable this important research to continue and expand.

As I have mentioned, there is still a lot of unknown surrounding the 
issue of TBI; however, one aspect is definite, and that is that people 
are never the same after TBI. Not only are their lives forever changed, 
but they must face these changes in a compromised state. The TBI 
program offers balanced and coordinated public policy in brain injury 
prevention, research, education, and community-based services and 
supports for individuals living with traumatic brain injury and their 
families.

Reauthorization of the Traumatic Brain Injury Act will further 
provide mechanisms for the research, prevention, and treatment of TBI 
and the improvement of the quality of life for those Americans and 
their families who may sustain such a devastating disability. I ask my 
colleagues' support in promptly reauthorizing the Traumatic Brain 
Injury Act.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.