# SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS SERVING AS TRANSLATORS OR  INTERPRETERS WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES
## `946569b00879b0c7f95a520a026284be`
`Ms. BORDALLO â€” 22 May 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 1104, a bill 
to increase the number of Iraqi and Afghan translators and interpreters 
who may be admitted to the United States as special immigrants. The 
bill improves upon an earlier effort made by Congress to address this 
matter. The intent that underwrites this bill is a noble one, and the 
improvements it makes to current law are needed. I am concerned, 
however, by the limited scope of the authorities provided by the bill 
before us and that is under consideration.

Section 1059 of P.L. 109-163 allows for 50 Iraqi and Afghan 
translators or interpreters who work in support of United States Armed 
Forces in those countries to petition the United States Government and 
be approved for entry into the United States under special immigrant 
status. The opportunity to immigrate to the United States has proved to 
be very popular among translators who work with the United States Armed 
Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. These individuals are generally the 
targets of incidences of violence or threats of violence from certain 
individuals or groups due to their close association with the United 
States Armed Forces. Reportedly, there is a six year waiting list for 
the 50 slots authorized by Section 1059 of P.L. 109-163. Unfortunately, 
Section 1059 of P.L. 109-163 did not provide similar opportunities for 
translators and interpreters who work with civilian departments and 
agencies in Iraq and Afghanistan who, like their colleagues who serve 
alongside the United States Armed Forces, are subject to incidences of 
violence or threats of violence from insurgents, militias, criminals, 
and terrorists operating in those countries. S. 1104, the legislation 
before us today, would expand existing law to authorize 500 special 
immigrant visas annually for the next two years, and expand eligibility 
for the visas to include both translators and interpreters working for 
the Chief of Mission or the United States Armed Forces in Iraq or 
Afghanistan.

This bill would make useful and important changes to current law. The 
House Committee on the Judiciary notes in House Report 110-158 that 
accompanies S. 1104, ''that there are potentially dire consequences in 
delay'' of this legislation and that ''the Committee chose to consider 
the Senate-passed legislation in the interest of expediting its 
enactment.'' I commend my colleague from Michigan and the Chairman of 
the House of Representatives' Committee on the Judiciary (Mr. Conyers), 
my colleague from Texas and the Committee's Ranking Member (Mr. Smith), 
and the members of the Committee for their prompt work toward reporting 
this legislation for consideration by the full House. Simply put, their 
efforts on this bill in Committee, and our favorable consideration of 
this bill on the floor, will directly result in the saving of the lives 
of some incredibly brave individuals.


But the United States Government can and must do more. We have a 
moral obligation to do all that we can to protect all of those 
individuals and their family members who are targeted for death or are 
subject of acts of intimidation or violence as a result of their 
employment by, or close association with, United States and Coalition 
military and civilian personnel operating in Iraq and Afghanistan.


While this bill represents progress in this regard, it alone will not 
completely fulfill this moral obligation.

The Committee notes in House Report 110-158 that, ''[i]n approving 
this bill for expedited consideration, the Committee acknowledges the 
issues that are left unaddressed.'' The Committee, in its report 
accompanying this legislation, comments that, ''[t]here appears to be 
little reason to limit this relief to those serving with our Missions 
in Iraq and Afghanistan as a translator or interpreter. Iraqis and 
Afghans are serving in many different functions in aid of our Missions 
there, and as their lives come under threat as a result, they would 
seem similarly deserving of our help in delivering them from harm's 
way.'' House Report 110-158, furthermore, notes that, ''[t]here is also 
the question of whether these would-be refugees should be granted 
access to refugee assistance programs promptly once they arrive in the 
United States.'' I fully understand and recognize that this is a 
complicated issue. But it is my hope that comprehensive Iraqi and 
Afghan refugee legislation can be considered and agreed to by this body 
in the near future.

I would hope that such comprehensive Iraq and Afghan refugee 
legislation, at a minimum, would provide the authority for at-risk 
Iraqi and Afghan individuals and their family members--who serve in any 
capacity--alongside, in support of, or in close coordination with 
United States or Coalition military and civilian personnel--to be 
eligible to petition the United States Government and be approved for 
entry into the United States under special immigrant status. 
Specifically, I would hope that such comprehensive refugee legislation 
would, at a minimum, provide petition authority and approval 
eligibility for at-risk Iraqis and Afghans who are direct hires of 
United States Government or Coalition country departments, agencies, 
and military services; Iraqis and Afghans who work as contractors for, 
or in support of, United States Government or Coalition country 
departments, agencies, and military services; Iraqi and Afghan public 
sector employees or elected members of government who work alongside, 
or who are closely or commonly associated with, United States and 
Coalition country military and civilian personnel; and Iraqi and Afghan 
business owners and operators and laborers who have performed work on 
construction, service, or other contacts financed by United States 
Government or Coalition government funds.

Success achieved by United States and Coalition military and civilian 
personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan to date can be, in part, attributed 
to the efforts of the local nationals in those countries. Those Iraqis 
and Afghans, for the most part, believe in democratic, peaceful and 
prosperous futures for their countries and their families. That is why 
they choose to stand for election to public office, why they serve 
alongside United States and Coalition personnel, whether as 
translators, cultural advisors, or the myriad other roles that these 
brave individuals perform in support of our missions in those 
countries, and why they perform work on reconstruction projects 
financed by the United States Government and the governments of 
Coalition countries. By doing so, however, they and their family 
members are exposed to extreme risks.


Here in Washington, DC it is all too easy for us to distinguish 
between the roles and responsibilities of Iraqis or Afghans who are 
direct hires of the United States Government and the governments of 
Coalition countries, Iraqis and Afghans who work on contract in support 
of United States and Coalition personnel, and Iraqis and Afghans who 
are employees of their governments. Each has a distinct role and 
relationship with the United States and Coalition governments and the 
missions pursued by their personnel. But these distinctions are not 
similarly considered by insurgents, militias, criminals, and terrorists 
who wish to do these individuals harm. That is, the enemy does not 
first review their employment situations and statuses of Iraqis and 
Afghans, draw distinctions, and then issue threats or conduct acts of 
intimidation or violence accordingly. The enemy kills, kidnaps, and 
intimidates ''enablers'' without discrimination. The Iraqis and Afghans 
who work alongside our personnel know this reality all too well. 
Comprehensive legislation to address this issue should, to the best of 
our ability, not draw distinctions or discriminate either.

S. 1104, as noted by the Committee in its report to accompany this 
bill, is not a comprehensive response to the problem before our country 
with respect to Iraqis and Afghans who are at-risk of violence and 
intimidation as a result of their association with United States and 
Coalition country departments, agencies, and military services' 
operating in Iraq and Afghanistan. Nevertheless, I recognize the 
urgency of enacting the limited reforms to current law contained in the 
language of this bill; and, therefore, I support its passage. I urge my 
colleagues to vote ''yes'' on this bill and to continue to work in 
support of comprehensive refugee legislation with respect to the 
service of Iraqi and Afghan nationals.