# IRAQ
## `95774ffed3d62adc6b6f369bab415680`
`Ms. LEE â€” 17 September 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, first I would like to thank the gentlelady from 
Ohio, who is the Chair of our House Ethics Committee, for yielding and 
for her tremendous leadership on so many issues, and for her 
consistent, and I mean consistent, opposition to this war from day one.

Also I would like to thank the Chair of our Congressional Black 
Caucus, Congresswoman Carolyn Kilpatrick, for your outstanding 
leadership and also for your commitment in changing the President's 
failed policy on Iraq and for making sure that the Congressional Black 
Caucus speaks in one voice. Thank you, Congresswoman Kilpatrick.

Let me also salute all of our colleagues from the Congressional Black 
Caucus who have opposed this war from the start, including 
Congresswoman Maxine Waters who actually boldly started the Out of Iraq 
Caucus. If our voices had been listened to, we would not have embarked 
upon this unnecessary, immoral war. I once again stand here as the 
daughter of a 25-year veteran who fought in two wars. It is past time 
to end this war.

Mr. Speaker, last week the President once again took to the air waves 
to make his case for the same old ''stay the course'' strategy. He said 
that he will return the number of troops in Iraq to pre-surge levels by 
July of 2008. He wants us to believe that by getting back to where we 
were last January sometime next summer, he wants us to think that that 
is progress. The American people aren't buying that. They know how to 
count. It is the same song and dance from the people who told us that 
there were weapons of mass destruction, who assured us that we would be 
greeted as liberators, who declared ''mission accomplished,'' and said 
really it is mission impossible but he declared mission accomplished 
and who said we were turning the corner and that the insurgency was in 
its last throes.

The fact is that the Bush ''stay the course'' strategy put us on the 
path for 10 years of occupation in Iraq at the minimum. It is time to 
call this what it is. It is really the President's plan to run out the 
clock on his failed policy, to move the goal post once again so that he 
could sneak out the back door and leave the American people holding the 
bag after he leaves the White House.

Well, let me ask you, how many of our troops should die so the 
President can save face? How many Iraqis must die to convince the 
President that the occupation is bringing disaster to hundreds of 
thousands of Iraqis? How much of our tax dollars should we spend so the 
President can avoid admitting that his policy failed? We are now 
spending $12 billion a month in Iraq. For the price of 1 month in Iraq, 
we could be paying for 1.5 million children to go to Head Start for a 
year. For the price of 1 month in Iraq, we could have hired 200,000 new 
school teachers for a year. For the price of 1 month in Iraq, we could 
have insured 7 million of the 8.7 million children living in this 
country without medical insurance for a year. Mr. Speaker, that is just 
the cost of 30 days in Iraq, and the President thinks we should be 
staying yet another 10 years. That is far too high a price to pay for 
him to save face.

All the talk about military progress in Iraq is a distraction. It is 
a smoke screen that only serves to obscure the basic fundamental fact 
that there is no military solution to the situation in Iraq. Our brave 
troops are trapped in a


civil war and an occupation. Our continued presence there is not only 
challenging our military; it is undermining our national security and 
our efforts to fight international terrorism. That is why every member 
of the Congressional Black Caucus really cosponsored a resolution which 
we sponsored banning military bases and control, at least U.S. control, 
of the Iraqi oil.



This resolution passed this body on a very large bipartisan vote, 
and, in fact, it sent a strong message that we do not intend to occupy 
Iraq, at least this House doesn't intend to have that as our policy.

Despite this administration's, though, efforts to frame this as an 
issue of victory and defeat, the fact remains that redeployment of 
United States troops from Iraq is really a precondition; it's a 
precondition to restoring our national security and our efforts to 
fight terrorism and putting us on a path toward a foreign policy that 
provides real solutions for global peace and security. Redeployment is 
a precondition, a precondition for engaging Iraq's neighbors and the 
international community in a regional stability plan.

We have a moral obligation to help build Iraq. We bombed the country 
and we, for the most part, destroyed it. But neither Iraq's neighbors 
nor the international community will truly engage in a regional 
stability plan as long as they believe that the United States intends 
to maintain an indefinite occupation. Redeployment is a precondition 
for any successful effort to combat global terrorism.

The United States' occupation of Iraq has become a rallying point for 
terrorist recruitment, training and fund-raising, a factor that 
actively undermines our antiterrorism efforts.

Congress has the power to end the Bush administration's failed policy 
in Iraq. But it means, it really means that Members of Congress are 
going to have to make a choice. Are we going to stand with the 
President for an open-ended occupation that sacrifices our troops' 
lives so he can save face, or are we going to act to bring this 
disastrous policy to a conclusion? The choice is simple.

Congress should not provide another dime, not another dime for the 
President's failed policy. We should provide the money necessary to 
fully fund the safe, timely and responsible redeployment of troops and 
contractors from Iraq. And let me tell you, the American people support 
this.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, let me remind you that members of the 
Congressional Black Caucus saw this disaster coming and tried to stop 
it. If you recall, we had an amendment when the authorization to use 
force came before this body, it was my amendment, that would have 
allowed the United Nations inspectors to complete their inspection 
process for weapons of mass destruction. Congress then, however, voted 
to go to war. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus voted for that 
resolution. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus continue to 
oppose the occupation and work day and night to bring our young men and 
women home. And we will continue to be that voice that reminds our 
country that we truly, we really, we honestly, we do support and love 
our troops, and the best way that we can demonstrate that, the only way 
that we can demonstrate that, is by bringing them home and making sure 
that they have their economic security, their health care, and their 
mental health care and the resources they need to take their lives 
back.

Thank you, Congresswoman Kilpatrick, for your leadership and for 
calling us together tonight. Thank you, Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs 
Jones, for pulling us together and making sure we all stay on time and 
for your leadership on so many issues.