# VA HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
## `959713ea6d1b01e410cb04ced366821e`
`Mr. AKAKA â€” 21 May 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, last week the Senate passed a resolution 
designating May 14 to 18, 2007, as National Health Information 
Technology Week. In connection with this resolution, it is important to 
recognize the leadership and progress that the Department of Veterans 
Affairs has shown in the area of health information technology.

By passing this resolution, the Senate has recognized the tremendous 
importance of information technology in improving health care for all 
Americans. RAND Corporation has estimated that by improving health 
information technology and practices more than $81 billion can be saved 
annually in the United States.

Such savings are only one aspect of the promised impact of better 
health information technology. The other, more important aspect is that 
improved health information technology can help save lives by providing 
health care providers with more accurate and timely patient 
information.

As an increasing number of veterans return from the current conflicts 
in Iraq and Afghanistan with complicated injuries, they must receive 
the quality care earned through their service. Information technology 
helps VA provide that care.

Over the past decade, VA has become a leader in the use of electronic 
health records. Through VA's veterans health information system and 
technology architecture, commonly referred to as VISTA, clinicians can 
access and update electronic health records throughout the Nation's 
largest health care system. Clinicians can also view medical images, 
such as x rays, pathology slides, and other critical records that can 
be placed immediately into a patient's record. In addition to their 
electronic records system, VA is reducing medication and prescription 
errors through a point-of-care system to verify that patients receive 
correct dosage at correct times, visually alerting staff when errors 
are made. For its development and employment of this system, VA was 
awarded the 2006 Innovations in Government Award, sponsored by Harvard 
University.

While VA's health care system is by no means perfect, its use of 
health information technology has improved the quality of care received 
by veterans, while reducing the costs to our taxpayers. I hope the 
Department will continue on their path of progress, and I commend VA 
for its work thus far.
