# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `95fafe9123f79acc0d5130a2f4af4ff8`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN â€” 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise to speak against S.J. Res. 9.

Today, the Senate gathers once again to debate the war in Iraq. This 
is a debate which has been at the center of our national politics--
indeed, of our national consciousness--for 4 years now. As everyone 
here knows, we are now in the thick of the battle for Baghdad, a 
critical battle where the outcome hangs in the balance.

A new commander, GEN David Petraeus, has taken command, having been 
confirmed by the Senate 81 to 0 just a few weeks ago. A new strategy is 
being put into action, with new troops being deployed into Baghdad. The 
question we in the Senate now confront is simple: Will Congress give 
General Petraeus and his troops a chance to succeed?

This joint resolution before us would deny them that chance, forcing 
our troops to break off the battle of Baghdad in 120 days without 
regard to how they are doing. Instead of providing General Petraeus 
with the necessary reinforcements he has requested, the reinforcements 
he is, indeed, counting on, this resolution would strip troops away 
from him in the middle of the battle. That makes no sense. It is why 
Eisenhower famously once said: ''Anyone who sets a deadline in war 
doesn't understand war.''

We need to be clear with ourselves and with the Nation. The joint 
resolution we are debating would impose a fixed date for the beginning 
of a withdrawal from Iraq. In just 120 days after this legislation 
would be passed, American forces would be required by law to begin 
redeploying out of Iraq. This would happen regardless of conditions on 
the ground, regardless of the recommendations of General Petraeus, 
regardless of the opinions of our allies in Iraq and throughout the 
region, and regardless of whether security is then improving or 
deteriorating. It would bind the hands of General Petraeus, 
substituting the judgment of Congress today for the judgment of our 
military commanders, our diplomats, and our friends in the region 120 
days from now.


Congress has been given many great responsibilities by our 
Constitution, but the daily micromanagement of war is not one of them. 
In fact, the proponents of this resolution, as I listen to them, make 
no attempt to justify why 120 days from now is exactly the right time 
to commence a withdrawal. Perhaps that is because there is no military 
or strategic logic at work. This is a deadline which is as arbitrary as 
it is inflexible. It specifically denies a great American general, 
David Petraeus, the room for decisive leadership, which history tells 
us any successful commander must have. Surely we know better than this. 
Surely we cannot think this is a path to success or security.

I have heard opponents of the current strategy insist that our troops 
should not be there ''policing a civil war.'' Well, that position, that 
statement would come as a surprise to the soldiers who have been 
serving in Bosnia and Kosovo over the past decade, first stopping and 
now policing a civil war--in fact, two of them. They were correctly, 
wisely dispatched there by a Democratic President, with the support of 
Democrats in Congress, the support of many of the same colleagues of 
mine who are today calling for this withdrawal.

I ask you, my friends, what has changed? Has security worsened in 
Iraq since the new strategy began? Has the political situation 
deteriorated? Have you lost confidence in General Petraeus, whom we 
confirmed just a few weeks ago? I think the answer to all those 
questions is no.

So I would ask: If we were to stop our legislative debating and 
maneuvering for a moment and actually look at what is happening in 
Baghdad right now, what would we see? We would see that sectarian 
fighting between Sunnis and Shiites is down in districts in Baghdad 
where American and Iraqi


forces have entered. That is according to General Petraeus' senior 
counterinsurgency adviser. We would see that Muqtada al-Sadr has 
disappeared, that many of his top lieutenants have been arrested, and 
that his mighty army, which terrorized much of Baghdad for the last 
year, has gone to ground. We would also see signs of political 
progress, including the passage of the new oil law by the Iraqi 
Cabinet, renewed talks by Sunni insurgent leaders about reconciliation, 
and even word of an impending Government shakeup involving the removal 
of some Ministers in the current Government. Finally, if we stopped and 
stepped back from the debate here in Washington and looked at what is 
happening on the ground in Baghdad and in Iraq, in Anbar, right now, we 
would see that the military surge has made possible a critically 
important diplomatic surge, as representatives from neighboring 
countries gathered in Baghdad last weekend in the first of a series of 
such regional conferences.

I don't know if this progress will lead to ultimate success in Iraq, 
to victory over extremism and terrorism there, to a victory for 
democracy and hope for an alternative path in the Arab world to the 
death and suicide and hatred al-Qaida offers, but I can tell you that 
what is happening in Iraq today certainly does not look like failure to 
me. In fact, it looks like some progress is being made as a result of 
this new strategy in Baghdad and in Anbar--preliminary but encouraging 
progress.

So why, in the face of these developments, would the Senate possibly 
adopt a resolution such as this? Why, in the face of these encouraging 
developments that suggest this new plan might well be working, would 
this Chamber demand that it end? Why, just weeks after confirming 
General Petraeus, would this Chamber block him from carrying out the 
strategy he shaped and is now successfully implementing?

There is only one understandable reason for Congress to impose this 
kind of deadline to begin a withdrawal, and that is if we were 
absolutely convinced the Petraeus strategy is doomed to failure. The 
only way a timetable for withdrawal makes sense is if there is no 
glimmer of hope that General Petraeus and the troops serving under him 
can succeed. I submit that is simply not a conclusion justified by the 
facts on the ground in Iraq today.

We are in a long and difficult war. We know that. The price paid by 
our heroic soldiers and their families has been heavy. I recognize that 
it is a war in which we have made mistakes, some of them serious, and 
in which we have experienced exacerbating, heartbreaking, infuriating 
setbacks. It is a war that has stirred the anger and frustration of the 
American people, feelings that are justified. What is not justified, 
however, is for Congress to let the passions and politics of the moment 
blind us to what is happening on the ground in Iraq today and what is 
on the line for our security tomorrow.

Our decisionmaking should be driven by the real-world conditions in 
Baghdad, not by the political mindset here in Washington. This joint 
resolution before this Chamber fails that test, and that is why it 
should fail to pass the Senate. General Petraeus has said he will be 
able to advise us, the President, the Nation, whether his plan is 
succeeding by the end of this summer. Until then, let me suggest an 
alternative course for Congress. Let me suggest we declare a truce in 
the Washington wars over the war in Iraq. For the next 6 months, let's 
let our troops and the Iraqi forces fight with our support and without 
us sending them mixed messages. Let us, instead, across party lines, in 
this Senate and in the House, come together around a constructive 
legislative agenda for our security in the world, including in Iraq, 
authorizing an increase in the size of the Army and Marines; funding 
the equipment and protection for our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan, and 
worldwide; monitoring progress on the ground in Iraq with oversight 
hearings, investigating contract procedures being followed in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and guaranteeing Iraq war veterans receive the first-class 
treatment and care they deserve when they come home.


I ask my colleagues to think hard about what we are doing and what 
this resolution asks us to do. I ask you to look carefully, not at the 
public opinion polls in Washington or throughout America, but at the 
realities on the ground in Iraq and to think about the consequences of 
a forced withdrawal and failure there. I ask you to step back from this 
path and to vote against this resolution.

I yield the floor.