# None
## `96d0b65bde8bae2840846252dd2457e9`
`Mr. MICHAUD â€” 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. MICHAUD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.

H.R. 2199 is a bipartisan effort to address the challenges presented 
by traumatic brain injury and to improve the quality of care for our 
rural veterans.

TBI is considered to be the signature wound of this war. TBI is 
complex and frequently overlooked or misdiagnosed.

We also have very little understanding of the long-term consequences 
of TBI. We must make sure that the VA is doing all they can to provide 
for these wounded soldiers. This is only the beginning, we still have 
more work to do, but this is a good first step.

H.R. 2199 also includes two provisions to improve the quality of care 
provided


to our rural veterans. With so many veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan 
living in rural areas, and an already existing population of older 
veterans in these areas, we need to explore innovative ways to improve 
VA accessibility and quality of care, especially on mental health 
issues. You heard both from the chairman and ranking member as far as 
what this legislation does.

I would like to recognize the hard work of a group of Members on both 
sides of the aisle who helped craft this legislation. This truly is 
bipartisan legislation. I do want to start with my good friend, Mr. 
Miller of Florida, who is the ranking member of the Health Care 
Subcommittee, who has been extremely helpful in getting this 
legislation introduced and moved through the full committee; also, Mr. 
Altmire of Pennsylvania, who has taken a real leadership role in 
traumatic brain injury, and for his focus on TBI with his legislation, 
H.R. 1944, which is included in H.R. 2199; Mr. Walz of Minnesota, for 
his legislation to establish centers for TBI research, education, and 
clinical activities, which are now also included in H.R. 2199, who also 
served on the Veterans' Affairs Committee; and Mr. McNerney of 
California, his legislation was included in H.R. 2199 to create the 
Committee on Care for Veterans with TBI; Mr. Donnelly, who sits on the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee, of Indiana, for his bill which was 
included in section 4 of H.R. 2199, to create an advisory committee on 
rural veterans; Mr. Welch of Vermont, for his bill and efforts to 
establish a pilot program for mobile vet centers, which are extremely 
important for rural areas; Mr. Lamborn of Colorado, for his amendment 
to include providing benefits outreach and assistance with claims for 
benefits as part of the mission of mobile vet centers. He also sits on 
the committee and was very helpful in making this bill a better bill.

So this truly has been a real bipartisan piece of legislation that 
took a lot of components of other bills that were through, that were 
introduced and we had hearings on, to be part of this bill.

I also would like to thank Ranking Member Buyer for his focus on this 
issue, and for his understanding of the importance of long-term 
research and the pursuit of the best practices for TBI care. He 
definitely has been very helpful with this legislation.

And, finally, I would like to thank and congratulate Chairman Filner 
for his strong bipartisan leadership on this bill and other veterans 
bills on the floor as well, and look forward to tackling other veterans 
issues as we move forward in the 110th Congress.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2199.