# None
## `97bccf1d44e609ba4cd484b5fcca2cd1`
`Mr. DODD â€” 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Madam President, before he leaves the floor, let me commend 
my colleague from Nebraska. He and I have worked on a number of issues 
over the years. In fact, in my remarks--and I had no knowledge when I 
prepared these remarks that I would be following my colleague from 
Nebraska--I quote some of the statements he has made about the 
situation in Iraq.

I commend him for his candor and his directness. He brings a lot of 
experience and knowledge to these issues, and is as deeply committed as 
anyone here to the well-being of our men and women in uniform, 
regardless of where they serve. He has clearly pointed out what is 
necessary here, not only the resolution of our military presence in 
Iraq but, just as importantly, what comes afterward: How do we then 
move beyond the military question to the political, diplomatic, and 
economic issues that offer some hope to the Iraqi people and ourselves 
for reemerging in peace and stability in that part of the world. I 
commend him for his comments.

I rise today to urge my colleagues to support the Feingold-Reid-Dodd 
amendment, which will come up at some point on this water bill under 
arrangements that the leader has provided, along with others. I would 
have preferred a freestanding proposal by my colleague from Wisconsin, 
whom I am pleased to join today, but under the circumstances, I 
recognize this may be the best opportunity we will have to actually 
debate his amendment, and I urge my colleagues to be supportive of his 
proposal. I realize it is a proposal that has some critics, but I 
believe it is the most honest, straightforward answer to the present 
situation in Iraq, one that is deteriorating by the hour, I would point 
out.

We need to reverse 4 years of a failed policy by safely redeploying 
our troops out of harm's way, out of the middle of Iraq's civil war. 
Despite our best wishes, and our military's best efforts, we are unable 
to solve Iraq's problems and their civil war. That has become clear. We 
cannot do that with military force. That was the conclusion of our 
military leaders 4 years ago, and they have never wavered in that 
conclusion. There is not a military solution to Iraq's civil war.

After invading over 4 years ago, we still lack a coherent strategy, 
and our


military presence has not improved the security situation in Iraq. The 
valor, the determination, the courage of our service men and women has 
been remarkable, and all of us in this Chamber, I believe, share that 
view. Yet the situation in Iraq grows worse, literally by the hour. 
This is simply unacceptable.

The President of our country contends now, as he contended for the 
last 4 years, and I quote him:




 Absolutely we're winning. Things are getting better. We do 


 have a strategy, but it just needs more time.


Those statements are false, unfortunately. We have no strategy in 
Iraq, in my view, just a surge tactic in search of a strategy. We had a 
surge in late 2005, and the result was the worst year of violence in 
Iraq since the war began. We also had two additional surges in 
Operation Together Forward I and II, and both of those surges failed as 
well.

My colleague, Senator Hagel from Nebraska, recently argued, and I 
quote him here:




 The President's strategy is taking America deeper and 


 deeper into quagmire, with no exit strategy. The strategy to 


 deepen America's military involvement in Iraq will not bring 


 about a resolution in Iraq.


I wholeheartedly agree with that conclusion. As the Baker-Hamilton 
report rightly concluded, there will be no military victory in Iraq. 
Iraq's civil war cannot be solved with military force alone. Only 
Iraqis can solve the quagmire now facing their country. Only Iraqis can 
chose to reconcile, to reach power-sharing agreements, to govern and 
police collectively, and to share the country's oil wealth.


But despite our best hopes that is not happening, and our military is 
unable to make that happen. This is why the surge tactic is 
fundamentally flawed. We cannot implement a military solution to what 
is fundamentally a political conflict in that country.

I believe we have a moral obligation to protect Iraqis and to help 
them reach these compromises, but we are not succeeding in doing that. 
In fact, for 4 years now we have not succeeded in doing that as well. 
An objective look at key indicators since our invasion will demonstrate 
that the situation has steadily deteriorated each year under the Bush 
administration. Whether you examine the number of civilian deaths, the 
number of internally displaced refugees, the number of Iraqis who fled 
their country, now in excess of 2 million, or in the amount of power 
and water flowing into Iraqi homes, all of these indicators demonstrate 
the overall situation in Iraq has not improved. In fact, it has 
deteriorated during the last 4 years. That is why I believe we must 
begin redeploying our forces out of Iraq within the next 120 days and 
complete the redeployment within the next year.

That is why I also believe that simultaneous to redeployment, and 
after the redeployment has been completed, we must conduct targeted 
counterterrorism activities to protect the Iraqi population from 
terrorists, to expunge al-Qaida from Iraq, and help ensure Iraq does 
not become a terrorist safe haven. I note that while I agree with 
Senator Levin that military readiness is currently lacking, I am 
concerned by the waiver provisions included in the amendment of my 
colleague from Michigan. It is true that due to the administration's 
defense policies many U.S. combat forces are not mission ready, are not 
adequately trained, and have not been given appropriate resting periods 
between deployments.

I recently visited some soldiers at Walter Reed Hospital who had been 
injured in Iraq. I asked them how much cooperation they were getting 
from the Iraqi people and what their observations were.

Without quoting them directly, let me paraphrase their comments. They 
said while the Iraqi people seem to be pleasant people and many seem to 
be interested in doing what they could to be helpful, in too many 
instances they pointed out that the civilian population knew where 
these IEDs were, these roadside devices. They knew where the ''ammo 
dumps,'' or the ammunition stockpiles were. Yet they never ever shared 
this information with our military in the communities where we were 
trying to provide security.

One soldier pointed out that we would spend a month and a half 
cleaning out an area with problems, and an hour and a half after they 
had left, things were right back where they were a month and a half 
before. Those are their words, not mine.

We know hear that these missions, despite the Herculean efforts of 
our military, are not getting this job done because of the raging civil 
war in that country. But providing a waiver to the President under the 
Levin amendment is tantamount, in my view, to re-authorizing the war. 
It doesn't hold the administration or the Iraqi Government accountable. 
It doesn't force a change in mission, and it doesn't begin to redeploy 
our forces. Instead it allows the administration to stay the course, 
full speed ahead, to use the words of Vice President Richard Cheney. 
The Feingold-Reid-Dodd amendment provides the best means, in my view, 
for changing our mission in Iraq.

As much as I wish we were able to secure Iraq ourselves, that the 
surge would work, or that our military presence in Iraq would bring 
about the compromises necessary, I think the evidence is clear it is 
not happening, and it will not happen. The American people know this, 
our troops who have served and sacrificed in Iraq know it, and I 
believe the Iraqi people know it as well. Only when Iraqis themselves 
decide they will no longer tolerate violence and destruction, only when 
their leaders come together will this violence be reduced. That is what 
needs to happen across that plagued country. The United States should 
help where it can, by training and equipping reliable and accountable 
Iraqi security forces that will serve the greater Iraqi nation, not 
their own tribe or their own sect.

According to a recent CBS poll, 70 percent of Shiites and nearly all 
of the Sunnis think the presence of U.S. forces in Iraq is making 
security worse. The vast majority of Iraqis, regardless of their sect, 
believe American troop presence in Iraq is making Iraq less safe.

Madam President, 78 percent of Iraqis oppose the presence of U.S. 
forces on their soil, and 51 percent of Iraqis support attacks on 
coalition forces. Slightly more than half of the population we are 
trying to protect approve of the attacks on U.S. soldiers. That is just 
not acceptable.

But it is not just the Iraqi public who want American forces out of 
their nation. The Iraqi Government does as well. A majority of the 
Iraqi Parliament recently signed a petition for a timetable governing a 
withdrawal of American forces, and in a recent high-level meeting, Iraq 
and its neighbors signed what they called the Marmara Declaration, 
reaffirming this sentiment. They declared in this declaration that ''a 
timetable should be established for the Government of Iraq to take full 
authority and responsibility, including for security throughout the 
country.''

The declaration went on to say:




 The United States should commit to a comprehensive strategy 


 for responsible withdrawal, consistent with Iraq's security 


 and stability based on milestones and a general time horizon.


It also says:




 Iraq's Armed Forces need to be nationally representative, 


 Iraq's police should be credible to its citizens, and 


 representative to the communities they serve.


The Feingold-Reid-Dodd amendment does just that. It does what the 
Iraqi people and the American people want, and it does it in a 
responsible way. This legislation mandates that the redeployment of 
U.S. forces should begin, as I mentioned, within a 120-day period and 
be completed within a year. Simultaneous to this redeployment, the 
legislation calls for continued counterterrorism operations, and the 
training and equipping of reliable and accountable Iraqi security 
forces to take over the responsibility of safeguarding the Iraqi 
population.

It is up to us to change the President's failed course in Iraq and to 
hold our President and the Iraqi Government accountable. It is up to us 
to mandate a change in direction, to begin to responsibly bring our 
troops home, to continue to help the Iraqis battle terrorists, and to 
train and equip reliable Iraqi security forces ,so Iraqis can police 
their own country and decide their own future.

We cannot afford another day of escalation, $2 billion a week, $8 
billion a month, lives lost, lives completely ruined in many cases. But 
also what is happening in Iraq itself, with the dislocation of the 
Iraqi people, the 60,000


who have lost their lives--the situation is not improving. A true 
change in direction is needed. The price our Nation is paying, the 
price our men and women in uniform are paying, is too high for a failed 
policy, a policy that has not succeeded because it cannot succeed.

I urge my colleagues at an appropriate time when Senator Feingold 
will offer his amendment to support this amendment. None of us can 
guarantee it is going to produce the desired result of convincing the 
Iraqi people what they should have been doing all along, instead of 
proposing a 2-month vacation, but rather sitting down and trying to 
come up with the political reconciliation for their country.

Our hope is by beginning a clear redeployment and setting a 
termination date--this must or this may convince the Iraqi people and 
their leaders that they should come to terms with their own political 
future. For those reasons I urge the adoption of the Feingold 
amendment.

I urge, as well, consideration of what Senator Hagel has suggested: 
talking about moving beyond the military issue, to utilize the tools 
available to us, the political, economic, diplomatic tools that are the 
means by which we should try to achieve reconciliation. But a 
continuation of our military presence under its present structure is 
not working. It should come to an end. This is the best effort to 
achieve that goal.

Again, I urge the adoption of the Feingold amendment.

I yield the floor.