# IRAQ
## `97cd263df1868dcd35db7ac381904da0`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise today to voice my strong support for 
the motion to invoke cloture to proceed to S. 574 so the Senate can 
undertake a full, vigorous, and honest debate on the future course of 
American policy for the war in Iraq.

As we speak about and debate the war, let us never forget our troops 
in battle, those troops in battle on the streets in Baghdad, in Anbar 
Province, or other areas of Iraq. We also remember, as we debate this 
issue, their families and their sacrifice. Finally, today, and in all 
the days we debate this critically important issue to our country, we 
honor the sacrifice of those soldiers and marines who gave, as 
President Lincoln said at Gettysburg, ''the last full measure of 
devotion to their country.'' We pray for them today and always, and we 
pray for ourselves that we may be worthy of their valor.

At this time in the Senate we are confronted with two simple 
questions: First, does the Senate agree with President Bush's plan to 
escalate our military involvement in Iraq by deploying some 21,000 more 
troops? Second, will the Senate vote tomorrow to allow debate to go 
forward?

Just those two questions confront us today and tomorrow. There will 
be further debate about our policy in Iraq in the weeks and months 
ahead, but for the next few days it is those two questions.

As I have stated before, I oppose this escalation, but I also support 
debating it. The grave question of war must always be--always be--the 
subject of vigorous debate, especially in the Senate. As a Senator from 
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, a State that has lost 150 young men 
and women in combat, I have a solemn obligation to speak out about the 
escalation.

Many of these brave Americans from Pennsylvania come from small towns 
such as Rockport and Connellsville and Beaver Falls, and from cities 
such as Bethlehem and Pittsburgh and Philadelphia. I have an obligation 
to speak out against those policies that only increase the likelihood 
that even more of


Pennsylvania's sons and daughters will die or be grievously wounded on 
behalf of a flawed strategy.

I had hoped, like many in this Chamber, we could have moved forward 
with the debate on Iraq 2 weeks ago. The American people don't 
understand why the Senate isn't debating this war when all of America 
expects us to do so. Perhaps a rare Saturday vote will help this body 
realize the importance as this debate moves forward.

We owe it to the troops, their families, and to those who have loved 
and lost someone dear to them in this war to debate our Iraq policy and 
to clearly express our opposition to the President's escalation. The 
American people have clearly voiced their strong support and their 
desire for their elected representatives to address this issue. The 
elections last November turned in large part on the failure of the 
previous Congress to engage in adequate oversight of the administration 
and ask the tough questions when it came to the execution of the war. 
Debating is essential to good oversight.

We know that recent polls conducted across America reveal Americans 
consider the war as one of the two most important problems facing our 
Nation. An overwhelming 63 percent of respondents in a recent national 
poll expressed concern that the Senate had been unsuccessful to date in 
attempts to hold a debate on the war in Iraq. We have an obligation to 
act, and that begins with a full debate.

S. 574 is short but eloquent. It respects and honors our troops who 
are serving or who have served with distinction in Iraq, and it 
communicates our disapproval of the President's escalation of the war. 
It mandates--mandates--additional reporting requirements so there is 
transparency with regard to military, political, and diplomatic 
operations in Iraq. This resolution deserves our support because it 
sends the right message to the President to change course in Iraq.


In the first 5 weeks of this new Congress, as a member of the Foreign 
Relations Committee, I have listened carefully to more than 25 
witnesses over the course of a dozen hearings, some 50 hours of 
testimony from generals and other military experts, diplomats and 
foreign policy experts, the cochairmen of the Iraq Study Group, and so 
many others. I have asked tough questions, and I have listened to 
statements and questions from my colleagues, some of whom have had 
decades of experience in foreign affairs and the oversight of military 
operations. After all these hearings, I am even more certain that this 
escalation is the wrong strategy.

The National Intelligence Estimate--we know it by the acronym NIE--
released in January on Iraq's prospects for near-term stability paints 
a dire picture. The unclassified version describes a growing sectarian-
based polarization, ineffective security forces with questionable 
loyalties, and an all-but-certain rise in communal violence in the 
coming months. The National Intelligence Estimate clarifies that Iraq's 
violence today is primarily driven by ''the self-sustaining character 
of Iraq's internal sectarian dynamics.''

Reading the key judgments of the NIE, I can only conclude that 
political reconciliation between the respective leaders of Iraq's 
varied populations is the best way and probably the only way to reduce 
the violence and to begin to create a stable state that is not a threat 
to its neighbors. Escalating military conflict by inserting additional 
U.S. troops in Iraq is not the answer.

As Chairman Biden remarked during the Foreign Relations Committee's 
deliberations on a related resolution, this effort is not inspired by a 
desire to embarrass or isolate President Bush. Rather, it is an attempt 
to demonstrate to the President that his approach is flawed and will 
not result in the outcome he seeks. The President is still searching 
for a military solution when, in fact, it is time for a political 
solution led by the Iraqis themselves. Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki himself declared last November, ''The crisis is political, and 
the ones who can stop the cycle of aggravation and bloodletting of 
innocents are the politicians.''

What we need is not just a political strategy; we need sustained and 
vigorous diplomatic engagement that I would argue has been lacking. The 
President and his senior officials have failed to make the case that 
the so-called new way forward in Iraq is, in fact, new or promises 
significant changes needed to achieve real victory. Instead, the 
President's escalation strategy risks repeating mistakes already made. 
It inserts more American troops into the crossfire of growing sectarian 
conflict, and it ignores the urgent need to reorient the mission of 
U.S. forces in Iraq toward those objectives which offer our best chance 
to leave behind a secure and stable Iraq.

In spite of all the rhetoric from the White House in recent weeks, I 
believe, and many in this Senate believe, that the President's policy 
is more or less more of the same: Stay the course. The United States 
today has approximately 137,000 troops in Iraq, growing by the day and 
by the week. Sending an additional 21,000 troops will not fundamentally 
change the current dynamic in Iraq.

The reality is that more American troops is not the answer in Iraq. 
General Abizaid, the outgoing U.S. Central Command commander, testified 
in November that the unanimous opinion of his top subordinates was that 
more American troops would only perpetuate the dependence of Iraqi 
troops and would not offer a positive solution. No matter how many 
troops we send, they cannot provide lasting security on the streets of 
Baghdad or other Iraqi cities. Only fully equipped, trained, and 
dedicated Iraqi military and police forces--those who do not pick and 
choose sides among sectarian groups--only they can provide the type of 
permanent security that will enable the Iraqi political and civilian 
life to emerge and the nation to embark on a path to reconciliation.

We heard from former Congressman Lee Hamilton during our Foreign 
Relations Committee hearings. He noted in his testimony before that 
committee that the money, time, and attention we are devoting to 
escalating the level of U.S. forces in Iraq must not detract from what 
should be a primary mission for the United States: training Iraqi 
security forces to enhance their capability to take the lead and allow 
U.S. forces to redeploy out of that country.

Congressman Hamilton and so many others have placed the primacy on 
the question of training. Instead, by adopting the President's 
strategy, I fear we are sending an additional 21,000 troops without a 
more focused mission and lacking a solid plan to accomplish it.

I fear we are still investing too much trust in the Maliki 
government, a regime that has failed to demonstrate it is acting on 
behalf of all Iraqis and may be focused only on one sectarian group. I 
fear American forces will continue to serve as a bull's-eye target for 
those resentful of a prolonged U.S. occupation in Iraq. In short, I 
fear, and many in this Senate fear, we are sending more American men 
and women into Iraq without a new blueprint for victory and without the 
essential political, diplomatic, and international groundwork required 
to succeed.


The President has based his troop escalation on the hope--the risky 
hope, I would argue--that this time the Maliki regime will carry 
through on its commitments and deliver the required Iraqi forces to 
help U.S. forces secure neighborhoods throughout Baghdad and, more 
important, then remain to allow reconstruction to proceed and normal 
life to return. Yet the record is not encouraging. In Operation 
Together Forward, Prime Minister Maliki had pledged six battalions, but 
only two were sent. Some of those Iraqi units suffered subsequent 
serious attrition rates. Many of those forces have been infiltrated by 
the very sectarian militias they are now being asked to disarm.

We are already seeing troubling signs in the initial stages of this 
latest escalation. The New York Times, January 22, the Washington Post, 
USA Today, and so many other news articles which I will not repeat here 
today have talked about the problems with Iraqi security forces showing 
up late or not showing up at all, not serious about their mission, not 
trained, not focused, and frankly not helping enough in terms of 
helping American forces. Americans are dying because of that 
incompetence. The fact remains that it is very difficult to rely on 
Iraqi forces when you have to ask them to deploy outside of their 
normal areas of operation and their ethnic strongholds.

I also retain real doubts when the President insists that this time, 
this


time it will be different, that Mr. Maliki now means it when he says 
Iraqi forces will truly crack down on all troublemakers, whether they 
are Shia or Sunni. The Government of Iraq has promised repeatedly to 
assume a greater share of security responsibilities, disband militias, 
consider constitutional amendments, and enact laws to reconcile 
sectarian differences and improve the quality of essential services for 
the Iraqi people. Yet, despite those promises, little has been achieved 
by the Iraqis.

Moreover, I am skeptical of this escalation of U.S. troops because we 
have seen it before. We have seen it before, tried over and over again. 
Operation Together Forward in 2006 represented a similar escalation; 
12,000 additional U.S. troops were introduced into the city of Baghdad, 
only to see U.S. and Iraqi casualties spike considerably without a 
sustained reduction in sectarian violence. We have seen similar efforts 
to ''flood the zone'' with additional U.S. troops in places such as 
Fallujah and Ramadi, only resulting in temporary gains. If more troops 
have not worked in the recent past, why should we have any reason to 
believe it will work this time?

I am concerned, as are so many others, about the dual-chain-of-
command concept that is being introduced as part of this escalation. 
Recently, Prime Minister al-Maliki's commander in the region and the 
capital itself has been trying to carry out part of this strategy. At 
the same time, there will be a separate or parallel U.S. command headed 
by MG Joseph Fil, Jr. Both commanders will have ultimate control over 
their own national troops, but this ''partnered'' command could create 
serious complications if there are disputes between U.S. and Iraqi 
military forces over specific operations. A unified chain of command is 
one of the hallmark principles that have long governed deployment of 
U.S. forces abroad.

Finally, I oppose this escalation strategy because I fear it will 
only exacerbate the longstanding strains on our Nation's military 
overall. Seven years ago, President Bush declared that his predecessor 
was leaving office with a military in decline. He alleged that the 
previous administration had not adequately funded our Armed Forces 
while simultaneously deploying those forces in excessive engagements 
around the world. It is one of the most tragic ironies that this 
President is himself now stretching our military to a genuine breaking 
point, as he pursues a misguided strategy in Iraq.

The Washington Post recently published an important article 
documenting the impacts of this proposed troop escalation. According to 
the Post, the Army and Marine Corps already lack thousands of necessary 
vehicles, armor kits, and other equipment needed to supply the extra 
forces. Diverting 21,000 troops from other essential missions around 
the world will only further deteriorate the readiness of our overall 
ground forces, making it more difficult to respond quickly and 
decisively in the event of other military contingencies, and raise the 
likelihood of greater U.S. casualties.

Our Nation's military is facing a genuine crisis. The war in Iraq has 
exacted a heavy toll--in casualties, first and foremost, but also in 
terms of combat equipment that undergirds our fighting men and women. 
Our National Guard and Reserve troops in particular are paying a heavy 
price. Army data shows that the Army National Guard units today 
only have, on average, 40 percent of their required equipment--40 
percent. National Guard combat brigades are being involuntarily 
mobilized, and reservists are being sent back to the command theater on 
a repeated basis.


Representative John Murtha, a decorated marine from my home State of 
Pennsylvania, painted a distressing picture of our military's 
readiness--or I should say lack thereof--during recent testimony before 
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. As he noted:




 At the beginning of the Iraq war, 80 percent of all Army 


 units and almost 100 percent of active combat units were 


 rated at the highest state of readiness. Today, virtually all 


 of our active duty combat units at home and all of our guard 


 units are at the lowest state of readiness, primarily due to 


 equipment shortages resulting from repeated and extended 


 deployments in Iraq.


Chairman Murtha then went on to cite recent House testimony from a 
senior Pentagon official that our country was threatened because we 
lacked readiness at home.

I welcome, as so many do, the President's intention to expand our 
military--permanently elevating the Army and Marine Corps' Active-Duty 
ranks over the next 5 years. But that is only a long-term solution. Our 
current forces are badly overextended, and an escalation in strategy in 
Iraq will only worsen that condition. Our Nation faces growing 
challenges around the world. We must ensure that our military forces 
receive adequate training, are fully equipped, and retain the necessary 
flexibility to quickly respond to contingencies wherever they may 
arise. Pouring more troops into Iraq does not make those requirements 
any easier to meet.

Just listen to the bipartisan Iraq Study Group on this matter:




 America's military capacity is stretched thin; we do not 


 have the troops or equipment to make a substantial sustained 


 increase in our troops presence.


The Iraq Study Group goes on to say:




 Increased deployments to Iraq would also necessarily hamper 


 our ability to provide adequate resources for our efforts in 


 Afghanistan or respond to crises around the world.


So says the Iraq Study Group.

For all these reasons, I am proud to stand here today in support of a 
bipartisan effort to send the President a message that the troop 
escalation in Iraq is the wrong choice for our Nation. Instead, our 
Iraq strategy should emphasize a new direction, encouraging Iraqi 
leaders to make political compromises that will foster reconciliation 
and strengthen the unity of the Government, laying the groundwork for 
an improved security situation, and redeploying our military forces in 
Iraq so they can focus on maintaining that nation's territorial 
integrity. We also must deny al-Qaida and other terrorists a safe 
haven, conduct counterterrorism operations, promote regional stability, 
and, most important, train and equip Iraqi forces to take the lead in 
security and combat operations. The President's escalation strategy of 
throwing more U.S. troops into Iraq's burgeoning civil war undercuts 
and detracts from each of these objectives: A campaign of escalation is 
incompatible with securing a new and better direction in Iraq. For 
those who argue that supporting this resolution only offers criticism 
but does not offer specific alternatives, I urge you to listen to what 
I and others have said in these days and what we will say in the next 
couple of days especially.


We have heard from the opponents about what this all means. I will 
not go into their opinions today. But I will say this: Every Member of 
this Chamber in both parties honors our troops, no matter which way we 
stand on escalation. We honor their sacrifices--the sacrifices they and 
their families make on a daily basis. But we must examine--we have an 
obligation to examine our national policies which we are asked to carry 
out and to be supportive of or in opposition to. If we disagree with 
the broad strategic direction in which the President is taking our 
Nation, it is our duty to speak out. To remain silent or passive in the 
face of an approach we believe is misguided and not in the national 
interests is an abdication of the responsibilities of our offices.

Our military forces and their loved ones have paid a heavy price for 
this mission in Iraq. As I have noted before, at least 150 
Pennsylvanians have given their lives, with hundreds more suffering 
from serious and lifelong injuries. PFC Ross A. McGinnis of Knox, PA, 
was one of those killed in action. He was 19 years old. He died of 
injuries on December 4, 2006, after a grenade was thrown into his 
vehicle in Baghdad. Private McGinnis has been nominated by his 
commanders for the Medal of Honor. He was manning the gunner's hatch 
when a grenade was thrown into his humvee. He could have jumped out to 
save himself, but he threw himself on the grenade to save the lives of 
his crew members. We must always remember this debate we must have must 
not have a focus on abstract policy matters. This has real implications 
for our men and women in the Armed Forces. We cannot forget the lessons 
and the life of Private McGinnis or any of the more than 3,000 
Americans who have died during this conflict. Our troops are deserving 
of our support and the support of all the American people.



Mr. President, I conclude with this: A troop increase will only 
endanger more young Americans in Iraq without any clear hope of 
success. For that reason, I support honest and open debate on the 
merits of the President's plan and an opportunity for the Senate to 
declare its views. I will vote to allow this important debate to 
proceed, and I will vote in favor of S. 574.

I yield the floor.