# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `97f248ea63b25d4eaba738e126d82057`
`Mr. ROSS â€” 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Georgia for leading this hour-
long Special Order, this discussion on the debt, the deficit, but more 
importantly on accountability, in restoring common sense, 
accountability, fiscal discipline to our Nation's government.

Madam Speaker, I don't have to tell you that we have got the largest 
debt ever in our Nation's history; $8,835,629,777,913 and increasing 
some $40 million every hour. Our Nation is spending a half a billion 
dollars a day simply paying interest on a debt we've already got, and 
that is before we increase it by $1 billion a day. Half a billion 
dollars a day going to pay interest on the national debt. That is a 
half a billion dollars a day we do not have to properly equip our 
troops, to support our troops, to support our veterans, those returning 
from Iraq and Afghanistan, to educate our children, to build roads. The 
list of what should be America's priorities is endless, and yet our 
Nation is spending half a billion dollars a day simply paying interest 
on a debt we've already got.

It is time to restore fiscal discipline and common sense to our 
government, and one of the ways we do that is by requiring 
accountability in Iraq. That is why the Blue Dogs have written what has 
become known as H.R. 47, providing for Operation Iraqi Freedom Cost 
Accountability.

Let me just say this, that 9/11, September 11, 2001, is a day that I 
will never forget. From my office window in the Cannon House Office 
Building I could see the smoke rise from the Pentagon. A few hours 
later, after being evacuated, I would learn that a young Navy petty 
officer, Nehamon Lyons, IV, from Pine Bluff, Arkansas, was among those 
killed at the Pentagon on that dreadful day.

In the months that followed, I voted to give the President the 
authority to go to Afghanistan to hunt down Osama bin Laden. Remember 
him? To bring him to justice and to put an end to the Taliban, to put 
an end to terrorism. And then on September 26, 2002, I was called to 
the White House. I sat in the Cabinet Room, took notes, I still have


them, where the President and Andy Card and Condoleezza Rice and about 
20 Members of Congress present proceeded to tell us that Saddam Hussein 
had weapons of mass destruction, that Saddam Hussein trains terrorists 
on weapons of mass destruction, and that if military force is used, in 
the President's word, it will be, quoting now, ''swift.'' September 26, 
2002.

Fast forward to March 13, 2007. More than 3,000 brave men and women 
in uniform have died, have sacrificed with their lives in Iraq. 
Thousands more injured in ways that will forever change their lives. As 
long as we have men and women in uniform in harm's way, I am going to 
support them; members of the Blue Dog Coalition are going to support 
them.

This war has affected all of us. My brother-in-law is presently 
stationed in the United States Air Force in the Middle East. My first 
cousin was in Iraq when his wife gave birth to their first child. 
People that I grew up with and taught in Sunday school and duck hunt 
with have already served one tour through the Arkansas National Guard 
duty in Iraq and will likely be returning next year if the President 
gets his way with this so-called surge.

Madam Speaker, I believe that the American people spoke on November 
7, and they told us they do not want more of the same. And simply 
adding 20,000 more troops to Iraq is, in my opinion, more of the same. 
The American people want a new direction in Iraq, not more of the same. 
In line with that, the American people want accountability for how 
their tax money is spent, not only in Iraq, but also here at home. And 
that is what we are trying to do with House Resolution 97.

Government investigations and media reports have detailed waste, 
fraud, and possible war profiteering by some of the very contractors 
that are being paid billions of dollars by the United States for their 
services in Iraq. Most recently, a report issued January 30 by the 
Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction counts unsanitary 
conditions, potential health hazards, poor construction methods, and 
significant cost overruns among the examples of waste, fraud and abuse 
rampant in the government's funding of the Iraq war.

House Resolution 97, which has been written and endorsed by the 43-
member strong fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition, puts 
forth tangible commonsense proposals that ensure future transparency 
and accountability in the funding of Operation Iraqi Freedom. House 
Resolution 97 is an important first step toward making sure that more 
resources get to our troops in the field.

House Resolution 97 focuses on four crucial points for demanding 
fiscal responsibility in Iraq: a call for transparency on how Iraq war 
funds are spent; the creation of a Truman Commission to investigate the 
awarding of contracts; a need to fund the Iraq war through the normal 
appropriations process and not through these so-called emergency 
supplementals; and, finally, using America's resources to approve Iraqi 
assumption of internal policing operations.

Funding requests for the Iraq war should come through the normal 
appropriations process so that Congress and the people have a clear 
understanding about what is being spent on the war in Iraq. With House 
Resolution 97, the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition 
is calling for the Iraqi Government and its people to progress toward 
full responsibility for internally policing their country. Without such 
progress, it is wasteful to continue our investment in the lives, 
limbs, and taxpayer dollars in Iraq.

We must honor those who have sacrificed in Iraq, our brave men and 
women in uniform, and the thousands more that have come home injured in 
ways that will forever change their lives. It is very important that we 
honor them, we support them and their sacrifices through demanding 
accountability from the Iraqi people. It is time to tell the Iraqi 
people it is time to step up and accept more responsibility for your 
own country. If you are going to continue to shoot at one another and 
to shoot at us, if public opinion poll after public opinion poll coming 
out of Iraq says that 70 percent of them don't want us there and 60 
percent of them think it is okay to kill a U.S. soldier there, then we 
should send a clear message to the Iraqi people that it is time for 
them to step up and assume responsibility. If they want us to continue 
to sacrifice our brave men and women in uniform and return many more 
thousands home injured, if they want us to continue to spend $12 
million an hour of our tax money in Iraq, some $2.5 billion a week, 
then it is time for the Iraqi people to accept more responsibility and 
more accountability for their actions.

At the same time, Madam Speaker, it is very important that this 
administration understand that if we are going to support $12 million 
an hour, $2.5 billion a week of hard-earned taxpayer money going to 
Iraq, we want to know how it is being spent, we want it accounted for, 
and we want to know without a shadow of a doubt that it is going to 
support our brave men and women in uniform.

I yield to the gentleman from Georgia.