# MOTION TO GO TO CONFERENCE ON H.R. 3043, DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH  AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `980a98e4b84f81b98d6c223376e6880f`
`Mr. OBEY â€” 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 8 minutes.

Madam Speaker, the gentleman is a good friend of mine. And I don't 
mind his pulling my leg, but from way over there, it's a little bit of 
a stretch.

Let me simply recite a few facts. If we take a look at the past 
history to see how these bills have been handled in the past, the 
gentleman talks about having a separate military construction bill. The 
fact is, over the last 5 years, when our Republican friends controlled 
this House, on three occasions they tied the military construction bill 
to other bills. And on one occasion, they never managed to pass a 
military construction bill at all. Only once in the past 5 years did 
they pass a freestanding military construction bill. So, I will stack 
our record against theirs any time.

There is another substantial difference between us on that score. In 
the 2007 budget and in the bill before the Congress now, we've added $7 
billion in additional funding for veterans health care, money which the 
administration itself opposed. So, I make no apology for what we have 
done on that score.

Let me also point out the gentleman is objecting to the possibility 
that we will combine the labor, health, education bill, the defense 
bill and the military construction bill into one piece. If we do that, 
that would mean that 90 percent of the dollars in the bill would be 
security related. The President has asked us to send him a defense bill 
and to send him a military construction bill. That is exactly what we 
would be doing. In addition to that, we would be sending the largest 
domestic bill, so that together we would be sending, in essence, 71 
percent of the appropriation part of the budget down to the White 
House. I make no apology for that.

I would also point out that, while the gentleman has a newfound 
objection to omnibus appropriation bills, during the 12 years in which 
the Republicans controlled this body, 56 times they sent omnibus 
appropriation bills to the President for his signature.



During the Bush administration, they sent omnibus appropriation bills 
to the President 27 times. The President had no objection whatsoever 
when they came from a Republican Congress. I find it interesting that 
he now professes objection because we are doing what his Republican 
Party did in spades for so long.

In fact, last year, the other side, when they controlled this House, 
they avoided sending an omnibus appropriation bill to the President 
because on the domestic side of the ledger, they didn't bother to send 
him any at all. So we had to spend the first 6 weeks when we were in 
control of this body cleaning up last year's Republican business.

I would also point out, lest we take lectures from the administration 
and OMB, Mr. Nussle, who is the President's new budget director, he was 
chairman of the Budget Committee for 6 years. Since 1976 when the 
Budget Act was passed, Congress failed to pass a budget resolution four 
times. Three of those four times occurred when Mr. Nussle was chairman 
of the committee. So I don't think I am going to take any lectures 
about the newfound interest of the new budget director in having timely 
consideration of any matter related to the budget.

I would also point out that during Mr. Nussle's tenure of 6 years, 
the Republican Congress passed three omnibus appropriations and one 
omnibus CR. So it seems to me that this is a debate about, if not 
nothing, at least very little. I would simply say that what we ought to 
be looking at is not what kind of a ribbon we have on the package, but 
we ought to be taking a look at the contents of the package. And I make 
no apology whatsoever about the contents of this package.

Now, if we take a look at the President's statement, his veto 
pronouncement yesterday, he says that the Congress has wasted time 
voting on efforts to change direction in Iraq. I would suggest that the 
President has wasted 5 years of the country's influence by the way he 
has handled Iraq in the first place. The President objects to the fact 
that in all of the domestic appropriation bills, we are some $20 
billion above his budget suggestion, about 2 percent. That 2 percent 
difference is the difference between having a President and having a 
King. And I would point out, he wants to spend 10 times that much money 
in Iraq in just 1 year.

The President says that Congress has gone it alone on SCHIP. I would 
suggest the President has gone it alone in Iraq. He has gone it alone 
without our allies. He is going it alone now without the support of the 
American people. So I would be careful, if I were the President, 
referring to someone ''going alone'' on anything.

I would also point out that the President says the Labor-H bill is 
bloated. Well, as a practical matter, if we were to pass the 
President's budget, we would be cutting vocational education by 50 
percent. We would be accepting the idea that we ought to cut the 
National Institutes of Health grants by 1,100 grants over the past 2 
years. We would be accepting the fact that we ought to allow No Child 
Left Behind to become a hollow shell in terms of financing. The 
President is, in fact, objecting to our increase for special education, 
an item which the Republican Party in this House took the lead on in 
putting in the bill in the first place.

So it seems to me the President, his priorities are not supported by 
the country. So he is falling back on a process argument. I don't think 
anybody is going to be especially impressed.

With that, I reserve the balance of my time.