# DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007
## `980a3c8d3dc9867928e6b5d57543e7fe`
`Mr. CONYERS â€” 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I would like to begin the debate on this 
measure by yielding myself as much time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, this past Monday on April 16, Emancipation Day, District 
of Columbia residents and others gathered by the thousands at Freedom 
Plaza and marched to the Capitol, calling on Congress to ''demand the 
vote.''

On that day in 1862, President Abraham Lincoln signed the District of 
Columbia Compensated Emancipation Act, freeing approximately 3,100 men, 
women and children who were held in bondage. That was several months 
before, of course, President Lincoln's issue of the Emancipation 
Proclamation on New Year's Day, 1863.

I stand before my colleagues in the House today and cannot help but 
note that the District of Columbia was the starting point for the 
Emancipation President, as he was called, but it still does not have 
the full voting franchise that is at the heart of U.S. citizenship. 
This hardly seems right, and we have come today, assembled again to 
correct this.

Monday's marchers sent a message to Congress: District residents have 
had enough of ''taxation without representation.'' That is a message 
that all Americans and all students of American history should 
understand. District residents just want what Americans elsewhere 
enjoy: a full share in American democracy.

This simple but compelling message has reached Congress, and today we 
are acting on it. Today we will do our part to correct a 200-year-old 
injustice. We have a constitutionally sound, bipartisan, politically 
balanced response that will give, at last, citizens of the District of 
Columbia full representation in the House.

The United States is the only democracy in the world, ladies and 
gentlemen, where citizens living in the capital city are denied 
representation in their legislature. Almost 600,000 people who call the 
District of Columbia home, who pay taxes, go off to war, and observe 
the other responsibilities of citizenship still do not have a vote in 
the Congress.

At Monday's march, we heard from a District of Columbia veteran who 
was one of the first soldiers sent to Iraq in March, 2003, and as a 
dual citizen of the United States and Iraq, he can participate fully in 
the Iraqi democratic process which includes electing voting members of 
the Iraqi National Legislature, but as a resident of the District of 
Columbia, his rights as a U.S. citizen are limited.

Well, his day has come, as well as for that of all of the citizens of 
this great District of Columbia. I hope that we can move this debate 
through as efficiently and as effectively as possible, and move toward 
a finish of a job that we have undertaken in more than one Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.