# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2009
## `9846b37d8b9581b14ce9585aa4cd7de3`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER â€” 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the comments of my friend 
from California. I just would like to respond on a couple of matters.

First of all, we hope and expect that this will be the last 
supplemental that we will have to do in this fashion so that these 
budgets for our military, whether it is in Iraq or Afghanistan, or 
elsewhere around the world, are treated within the whole budget.

So I appreciate your comments about that, but this has been a system 
that we intend to stop. This is the last one. As it was laid out, we 
left it halfway finished last year.

Second, to my friend from California, I would say that in the spirit 
of bipartisanship, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee has 
come up with the rule concerning Guantanamo, or the amendment 
concerning Guantanamo. Some of the Members of my caucus are going to 
take real issue with that amendment. They think that it goes too far in 
terms of giving the President time to develop a plan for releasing or 
transferring the prisoners who are held at Guantanamo. I know that 
Members on your side of the aisle think it doesn't go far enough. So in 
an effort of bipartisanship, the chairman has tried to craft this 
amendment.

My last point is with respect to the border. There were hundreds of 
millions of dollars appropriated in the stimulus bill for border 
protection and border enforcement, and there is even more so in this 
particular bill.

So three of your points I would like to take issue with. I do 
appreciate the extension of the hand in bipartisanship.