# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `988039798b4e1041aa2c4da2fd97390d`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I rise today in the course of this 
Defense authorization bill to discuss an amendment which I am working 
on and preparing to offer. It is an important amendment to this bill. 
It is a critically important amendment for our Nation. It is an 
amendment known as the DREAM Act.

The DREAM Act is a narrowly tailored bipartisan measure that I have 
sponsored with Republican Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, Republican 
Senator Dick Lugar of Indiana, and in past years with Senator Orrin 
Hatch of Utah. It would give a select group of students in America a 
chance to become permanent residents only if they came to this country 
as children, are long-term U.S. residents, have good moral character, 
and enlist in the military or attend college for at least 2 years. The 
DREAM Act is supported by a large coalition in the Senate, and also by 
military leaders, religious leaders, and educators from across the 
political spectrum and around the country.

During the 109th Congress, the DREAM Act was adopted unanimously as 
an amendment to the immigration reform legislation that passed in the 
Senate. In the 108th Congress, the DREAM Act was the only immigration 
reform proposal reported to the Senate floor on a bipartisan 16-to-3 
vote by the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Now, obviously, in the midst of the Defense authorization bill, some 
people question why one might bring up an immigration issue. The answer 
is simple: The DREAM Act would address a very serious recruitment 
crisis facing our military. Under the DREAM Act, tens of thousands of 
well-qualified potential recruits would become eligible for military 
service for the first time. They are eager to serve in the armed 
services, and under the DREAM Act, they would have a very strong 
incentive to enlist because it would give them a path to permanent 
legal status.

First, let us look at the recruitment crisis we face today. Largely 
due to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Army is struggling to meet 
recruitment quotas. Because of these recruitment difficulties, the Army 
is accepting more applicants who are high school dropouts, have low 
scores on military aptitude tests, and, unfortunately, have criminal 
backgrounds.

The statistics tell the story. In 2006, almost 40 percent of Army 
recruits had below-average scores on the military aptitude test. That 
is the highest rate of students with low scores since 1985. In 2006, 
almost 20 percent of Army recruits did not have a high school degree. 
This is the highest rate of high school dropouts enlisting in the Army 
since 1981. By comparison, from 1984 to 2004, 90 percent or more of 
Army recruits had high school diplomas. Why does this matter? The Army 
said itself that high school graduation is the best single predictor of 
''stick-to-itiveness'' that is required to succeed in the military and 
in life.

Charles Moskos, a Northwestern University sociologist, is an expert 
in military culture, and he says:




 The more dropouts who enlist, the more discipline problems 


 the Army is likely to have.


Even more disturbing, the number of so-called moral waivers for Army 
recruits who have committed crimes has increased by 65 percent in the 
last 3 years, from 4,918 in 2003 to 8,129 in 2006. Many of these 
waivers are for serious crimes--aggravated assault, burglary, robbery, 
and even vehicular homicide. In fact, individuals with criminal 
backgrounds were 11.7 percent of the 2006 recruiting class. Now, in 
contrast, under the DREAM Act, all recruits would be well-qualified 
high school graduates with good moral character.

Let me tell you how the DREAM Act would work. Currently, our 
immigration laws prevent thousands of young people from pursuing their 
dreams and really becoming part of America's future. Their parents 
brought these children to the United States when they were under the 
age of 16. For many, it is the only home they know. They are fully 
assimilated into American society. They really don't want much more 
than just to be Americans and to have a chance to succeed. They have 
beaten the odds all of their young lives. The kids who would be helped 
by the DREAM Act face a high school dropout rate among undocumented 
immigrants of 50 percent. So it is a 50-50 chance that they would even 
qualify to be part of this act.

Incidentally, the dropout rate for legal immigrants is 21 percent and 
for native-born Americans, 11 percent. So already these young people 
would have to beat the odds and graduate from high school to even 
qualify to be considered.

They have also demonstrated the kind of determination and commitment 
that makes them successful students and points the way to significant 
contributions they will make in their lives. They are junior ROTC 
leaders, honor roll students, and valedictorians. They are tomorrow's 
soldiers, doctors, nurses, teachers, Senators, and Congressmen.

Over the years, I have had a chance to meet a lot of these DREAM Act 
kids. That is what they call themselves, incidentally. Let me give you 
one example. Oscar Vasquez was brought to Phoenix, AZ, by his parents 
when he was 12 years old. He spent his high school years in Junior ROTC 
and dreamed of one day enlisting in the U.S. military. At the end of 
his junior year, the recruiting officer told Oscar he was ineligible 
for military service because he was undocumented. He was devastated.

But he found another outlet for his talent. Oscar, because of the 
help of two energetic science teachers, was enrolled in a college 
division robot competition sponsored by the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration. With three other undocumented students, Oscar 
worked for months in a windowless storage room in his high school and 
tested their invention at a scuba training pool on the weekends. 
Competing against students from MIT and other top universities, Oscar's 
team won first place in this robot competition.

Oscar has since graduated from high school. You know what he does? He 
is not in the military. He is not using his scientific skills. He is an 
undocumented person in America. He hangs sheetrock for a living. It is 
the best job he could get without a college education or the 
opportunity to enlist in the military. He wants to save his money in 
hopes that someday--just someday--the door will open and give him a 
chance to be part of this Nation, the only Nation he has really ever 
known. Couldn't we use his talent? Couldn't the military use someone 
like Oscar? The DREAM Act would help students just like him. It is 
designed to assist only a select group of students who would be 
required to earn their way to legal status.

Now, the fundamental premise of the DREAM Act is that we shouldn't 
punish children for the mistakes their parents made. That isn't the 
American way. The DREAM Act says to these students: America is going to 
give you a chance. It won't be easy, but you can earn your way into 
legal status. We will give you the opportunity if you meet the 
following requirements: if you came to the United States when you were 
15 years old or younger, if you


have lived here at least 5 years, are of good moral character, and you 
graduate from high school and then serve in the military or attend 
college for at least 2 years.

The DREAM Act doesn't mandate military service. There is a college 
option. A student who is otherwise eligible could earn legal status 
that way. It would be inconsistent with the spirit of our volunteer 
military to force young people to enlist as a condition for obtaining 
legal status, but the DREAM Act creates strong incentives for military 
service.

Many DREAM Act kids come from a demographic group that is already 
predisposed to serve the United States in the military. A 2004 survey 
by the RAND Corporation found that 45 percent of Hispanic males and 31 
percent of Hispanic females between ages 16 and 21 were very likely to 
serve in the Armed Forces, compared to 24 percent of White males and 10 
percent of White females.

It is important to note that immigrants have an outstanding tradition 
of service in the military. There are currently 35,000 noncitizens 
serving in the military and about 8,000 more will enlist each year. 
These are not citizens; they are legal residents who are willing to 
serve our country.

I have met them. The second trip I made to Iraq was to a Marine Corps 
base west of Baghdad. They lined up a group of young marines from 
Illinois to whom I could say hello. It was a hot and dusty day. They 
stood there waiting for this Senator to show up. The last one of them 
in line was a young Hispanic man from Chicago named Jesus. Jesus had 
with him a brown envelope. He said: Senator, I would like to ask you a 
favor. He said: I enlisted in the Marines and I am glad to be a marine, 
but the one thing I would like to do someday is to vote. I am not a 
citizen and, he said, I need a chance. He said: I hope you can help me 
get a chance to become a U.S. citizen.

I said to myself, what more could we ask of this young man? He 
volunteered for the U.S. Marine Corps to go to a battle zone and risk 
his life for America.

I listen to speeches on the floor here. My friend from Alabama, 
Senator Sessions, comes to the floor on a regular basis and criticizes 
the DREAM Act. He criticizes this bill that would give young people who 
are undocumented and graduate from high school, of good moral 
character, without a criminal background, who want to serve our Nation 
in the military on their path to becoming legal. He criticizes this 
bill. He calls it amnesty.

Do you know what, an amnesty is a giveaway. Amnesty is a card to pass 
''Go'' and collect $200 in America. Do you think those who would 
volunteer for the military, who are willing to risk their lives for our 
country, are going to receive amnesty? Is this a gift? It is a gift to 
America that they are willing to risk their lives for our country. It 
is a gift to America that once having served, they will come back as 
proud Americans, voting and living in this country. It is a gift to 
America that they will use their skills and talent to make this a 
greater nation. For my colleagues to come to the floor and call this 
amnesty is to, in some ways, denigrate the fantastic sacrifice these 
young people would be willing to make, who serve in the military to 
become citizens.

I will concede this is not the only path to citizenship under this 
DREAM Act. Those who finish 2 years of college would also have a 
chance. I think that is only fair. To make this contingent only on 
military service I think would create a situation which is not 
consistent with a volunteer military. I hate to see us lose these young 
men and women who want to be part of America and are willing to risk 
their lives for that opportunity.

A recent study by the Center for Naval Analysis concluded ''non-
citizens have high rates of success while serving in the military--they 
are far more likely, for example, to fulfill their enlistment 
obligations than their U.S.-born counterparts.''

The study also concluded there are additional benefits to enlisting 
noncitizens. For example, noncitizens ''are more diverse than citizen 
recruits--not just racially and ethnically, but also linguistically and 
culturally. This diversity is particularly valuable as the United 
States faces the challenges of the global war on terrorism.''

The DREAM Act is not just the right thing to do; it would be good for 
America. The DREAM Act would allow a generation of immigrants with 
great potential and ambitions to contribute to the military and other 
sectors of American society.

I am not just speaking for myself here, as the sponsor of this 
legislation. The Department of Defense recognizes it, and we have 
worked with them. Bill Carr, the Acting Under Secretary of Defense for 
Military Personnel Policy, recently said the DREAM Act is ''very 
appealing'' to the military because it would apply to the ''cream of 
the crop'' of students, in his words. Mr. Carr concluded the DREAM Act 
would be ''good for [military] readiness.''

On the Defense authorization bill, I don't believe it is unusual or 
improper for us to consider a bill that a leader in the Department of 
Defense said would be good for military readiness.

Last year at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on the 
contributions of immigrants to the military, David Chu, the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, said:




 There are an estimated 50,000 to 65,000 undocumented alien 


 young adults who entered the United States at an early age 


 and graduate from high school each year, many of whom are 


 bright, energetic and potentially interested in military 


 service. They include many who participated in high school 


 Junior ROTC programs. Under current law, these young people 


 are not eligible to enlist in the military . . . Yet many of 


 these young people may wish to join the military, and have 


 the attributes needed--education, aptitude, fitness and moral 


 qualifications. . . .


The Under Secretary went on to say:





. . . the DREAM Act would provide these young people the 


 opportunity of serving the United States in uniform.


Military experts agree. Margaret Stock, a professor at West Point, 
said:




 Passage of the DREAM Act would be highly beneficial to the 


 U.S. military. The DREAM Act promises to enlarge dramatically 


 the pool of highly qualified recruits for the U.S. Armed 


 Forces . . . passage of this bill could well solve the Armed 


 Forces enlistment recruiting woes.


Do you know what we are offering to young people now to enlist in our 
military? For many of them, a $10,000 cash bonus, right out of high 
school, if they will enlist in the military. And if they will show up 
within 6 weeks, we double it to $20,000, the largest cash incentive we 
have ever offered. These young people aren't looking for a cash 
incentive. All they want is a chance to fight for America, to defend 
our country and to become part of our Nation's future.

Conservative military scholar Max Boot agrees. When asked about the 
DREAM Act, he said:




 It's a substantial pool of people and I think it's crazy we 


 are not tapping into it.


These experts are right. The DREAM Act kids are ideal recruits. They 
are high school graduates, they have good moral character, and they 
desperately want to serve America. At the time when the military has 
been forced to unfortunately lower many of its standards to meet 
recruitment targets, we should not underestimate the significance of 
these young people as a national security asset.

This is the choice the DREAM Act presents us. We can allow a 
generation of immigrant students with great potential and ambition to 
contribute more to America, or give them the future of living in the 
shadows, uncertain about what they can do, uncertain about where life 
will lead them.

I am going to urge my colleagues to support this legislation and I 
hope they will, for a moment, pause and reflect. There have been a lot 
of things said about immigration during the course of this debate. I 
look back on this issue as one who doesn't come to it objectively. I am 
the son of an immigrant. My mother came to this country as a young girl 
at the age of 2 from Lithuania. Her naturalization certificate sits 
behind my desk upstairs. She became a naturalized citizen at the age of 
25. She lived long enough to see me sworn into the Senate, and I was so 
proud of that day and so proud to be a Senator from the State of 
Illinois.

I believe in immigration. I believe the diversity of America is our 
strength; that Black, White, and Brown, from every corner of this Earth 
we have come together to create something no nation on Earth can rival.

There are those who will always see immigration differently, those 
who


will question it, and those who will be critical. For those people, I 
ask them to step back and take an honest look at this. Step back and 
take an honest look at these young people, meet them, sit down with 
them, as I have. They will bring tears to your eyes when they talk to 
you about how hard they are working to make it in this country. They 
don't get many of the breaks which other kids get, but they keep on 
trying.

One of my friends is getting his graduate degree in microbiology at 
the University of Chicago. He keeps going to school because, as he 
said: Senator, I don't know what to do when I get out of school. I am 
not a legal American. I am undocumented. My dream is to work for a 
pharmaceutical company, to do medical research one day. Can we afford 
to let him go? Can we afford to turn our back on what he will bring to 
America?

It is interesting to me, before the end of this year we are likely to 
debate H-1B visas. The debate behind H-1B visas is that we don't have a 
large talent pool in America. We need to bring the best and brightest 
from India, from Asia, from Africa, and from Europe. We need to bring 
them in so our companies in America, starved for talent, that can't 
find it here, could find it in these visa holders coming in from 
foreign countries. We will let them work for 3 years or 6 years. Some 
them may try to stay. Some of them will go home.

But if we are at a point where we don't have a large enough talent 
pool in America, can we honestly say that these young people, the 
people who would be benefitted by the DREAM Act, are a talent we can 
waste? I don't think so.

Just last year I was eating in a restaurant in Chicago. It is a 
pretty famous breakfast place called Ann Suther's. Tom Tully is an 
alderman for the city of Chicago, and his family owns the restaurant. 
He introduced me to a young man with an apron on. He called him Juan 
and he said: Juan, come over and meet the Senator. He explained to me 
that Juan, who came to this country illegally, was allowed to stay and 
become a citizen under the amnesty that was offered by President Reagan 
20 years ago. Juan went on to get an engineering degree and went on to 
work with an engineering firm, but because he remembers that this 
restaurant offered him a chance to wash dishes when nobody else would 
give him a job, he shows up every once in a while on a Saturday and 
works for a few hours for nothing, just to be around his old friends.

Those are heart-warming stories and there are many of them out there. 
I know there are people who seriously question whether immigration can 
be debated successfully on the floor of the Senate. I am hoping it can 
be and I am hoping my colleagues on the Democratic side and the 
Republican side will join me in this bipartisan effort for these young 
people, to give them a chance to serve and a chance to excel. It will 
make their lives better and make America a better nation.

I yield the floor.