# None
## `9929e7bacbbdd285aa05a1dcbff8a53f`
`Mr. WAXMAN â€” 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, the Bush administration is hiding the truth 
while seeking hundreds of billions of dollars and placing our troops in 
danger, and we cannot allow this to happen.

We need answers to some very important questions: How corrupt is the 
Maliki government? Are top officials in Iraq stealing billions of 
dollars to fund insurgents who are attacking and killing our troops? Is 
corruption undermining the chances for political reconciliation?

Secretary of State Rice says she will answer these questions only on 
one condition: every Member of Congress who hears the answers has to 
keep the answers secret. Well, that's an outrageous abuse of the 
classification system.

Earlier this month, the former head of the Iraqi Commission on Public 
Integrity, Judge Radhi, testified before the Oversight Committee. He 
told us that corrupt Iraqi officials had stolen a staggering $18 
billion and used part of that money to fund terrorists. He told us that 
when he tried to track down who was responsible, well, 31 of his 
investigators were brutally assassinated, and his own family living in 
the Green Zone was targeted twice with rocket attacks. And he gave us 
copies of secret orders that Prime Minister Maliki personally issued to 
protect his allies, including his own cousin, from corruption 
investigations and prosecutions.

Judge Radhi, Special Inspector General Stuart Bowen and Comptroller 
General David Walker all told us that


corruption is so entrenched in Iraq that it is jeopardizing our troops 
and our mission. But when we asked the State Department for 
unclassified documents about the extent of corruption in the Maliki 
government, Secretary Rice retroactively classified them. And when we 
asked the embassy officials when they knew about corruption, she 
ordered them not to respond.

Secretary Rice has made public statements praising the anticorruption 
efforts of the Maliki government, and he, himself, she praised; and she 
even praised the corrupt Interior Ministry. But when we asked embassy 
officials in Iraq whether her public statements were accurate, they 
said they were not allowed to respond unless we agreed to keep their 
answers secret.

Mr. Speaker, 5 years ago, abusive classified information got us into 
this war. It's time for these abuses to end, and that's why we ask all 
Members to support this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.