# IRAQ RESOLUTION
## `99a9f825e2660e9114e6952e73e894b6`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 12 February 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I thank our colleague. I wonder if at this 
point in the colloquy--and then I will yield the floor because I know 
other Senators are anxious to speak--but we, the United States, the 
military, and the taxpayers have trained and equipped over 300,000 
Iraqi security forces composed of the professional Army, police, border 
security, and a group of others. The thrust of our resolution 
originally, and this one that is here, the amendment which is 
identical, was to give the Iraqis this opportunity, which the Prime 
Minister himself called for. He said: Give us the opportunity to show 
that we can do this operation.

That is the basis on which we drew up the resolution. And in our 
resolution we said two things: The responsibility for Iraq's internal 
security and halting sectarian violence must rest primarily with the 
Government of Iraq and Iraqi security forces. Then, specifically we 
said in the conclusion: The United States military operations should, 
as much as possible, be confined to the goals that are enumerated in 
the previous paragraph and should charge--I repeat--charge the Iraqi 
military with the primary mission of combating sectarian violence, and 
that is in the Baghdad operation.

So I think those facts, our resolution, now referred to as an 
amendment, absolutely parallels what we learned firsthand on our trips 
into that region.

Mr. President, I see other Senators are waiting. I see the 
distinguished senior Senator from Maine, Ms. Snowe.