# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `9a6ead5b6c4fa84a241d41ccfbc86e9c`
`Mr. SHAYS â€” 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, this amendment would provide $1 million to the U.S. 
Institute of Peace, referred to as USIP, for the purposes of 
reestablishing the Iraq Study Group (ISG). We want the ISG to revisit 
Iraq to evaluate the condition in Iraq 1 year later, to look at their 
findings and compare them to a year ago, and to look at their 
recommendations to see where they might alter them. That is what the 
amendment does.

I have spoken to Richard Solomon at the U.S. Institute of Peace, who 
said the Institute is prepared to do this, to reconstitute its expert 
working groups.

This would be done at the same time that we are going to hear from 
Ambassador Ryan Crocker and General David Petraeus, who will be giving 
us their findings. But the Institute wanted to make clear they would 
not be there to look at and evaluate the Crocker-Petraeus findings and 
recommendations, but it would simply be a report that would be provided 
at the same time to which people then could compare.

I spoke to one of the principals of the Iraq Study Group, Lee 
Hamilton. He said he is willing to take this effort on, provided it is 
to review what they did, to look at what has taken place in Iraq, to 
review their observations, their findings and their recommendations, 
but they would not be eager to take the Petraeus-Crocker report and 
analyze it. It would be done so there would be two instruments that 
Congress could look at.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.