# None
## `9b1eeb892cc028b938d738128e60da7b`
`Mr. DREIER â€” 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

It is very, very unfortunate that we are here trying to tackle the 
issue of corruption in Iraq and we are failing to look at the facts. 
The distinguished former chairman of the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, our friend from Fairfax, Virginia (Mr. Davis) has 
worked long and hard in a bipartisan way on the constitutionally 
mandated responsibility of legislative oversight of the executive 
branch. It's an issue which he takes very seriously.

He represents northern Virginia. He represents a lot of people who 
work in the executive branch, a lot of people who work in the 
legislative branch as well. He's an expert on these issues and he's 
been proud to work in past Congresses and in this Congress in a 
bipartisan way.

He's done that with my good friend and California colleague with whom 
we share representing the Los Angeles area (Mr. Waxman), the 
distinguished Chair of the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform. And traditionally, we've seen these two, while they've 
obviously had a different perspective on issues, we've seen their 
arguments propounded very, very thoughtfully on a regular basis, but 
they have been able to join on a wide range of issues.

And here we have Mr. Davis, who did have his staff last Wednesday get 
a copy of this resolution, but Madam Speaker, as you recall we had the 
funeral of our colleague Mrs. Davis, and we were not in on Thursday and 
on Friday we were not in session. And the members of the staff on the 
minority side were told on Wednesday that they were not to share this 
information, to wait until it was introduced on Friday.

Madam Speaker, it was introduced on Friday. We had not been in 
session for 2 days then, Thursday or Friday, and then all of a sudden 
this is brought up in the Rules Committee, no markup held whatsoever, 
no attempt to even get the briefing from the State Department. We've 
been told by the State Department that the chairman of the committee 
turned down the offer to have this briefing.

And so what can we conclude, Madam Speaker, other than the fact that 
there is gross politicization of this issue? Who is opposed to tackling 
the issue of corruption? I mean, it's motherhood and apple pie, and yet 
we somehow, because we want to get all the facts on the table, because 
we want to have an opportunity for a free-flowing debate, because we 
want the very respected ranking minority member to have a chance to 
have his substitute voted on in this House, we are somehow being told 
we are pro-corruption, we want to be part of a coverup. It is 
absolutely outrageous, Madam Speaker. It's a disservice to Democrats 
and Republicans of this institution to have this kind of treatment.

Madam Speaker, I have some closing remarks that I'd like to make, but 
we've just been joined by our very thoughtful colleague from 
Bridgeport, Connecticut, who is a hardworking member of the Committee 
on Oversight and Government Reform.

Madam Speaker, may I inquire of the Chair how much time we have 
remaining on each side?