# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `9b5003cada637b1d66536cf513b9c56f`
`Mr. BOND â€” 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, our job in this body right now for all of us 
is to fight and win the war that radical Islam terrorists have declared 
upon us.

As I see it, Congress has three choices. First, Congress can and 
should provide the money it needs to support the troops. That is the 
only proper choice. There is money in this supplemental for additional 
mine-resistant armored protection vehicles--vehicles the Army reports 
will reduce casualties by 70 percent. Each day this Congress neglects 
to fund the troops and pass a bill that can be signed into law is an 
additional day our troops are without that protection.

Second, if you want to stop this war, Congress can vote to cut off 
funding. However, doing so would tell the troops that even though 77 
Members of this body said we should fight this war to keep America 
safe, we would now be telling all of our brave men and women in Iraq, 
their families, and the families of those who gave their lives, we did 
not mean it, that we did not want to finish this job, and that when the 
going gets tough, America gets going--out. We will tell America we are 
no longer concerned about keeping our homeland safe from a new 9/11, 
about denying al-Qaida the safe haven it has declared it is seeking in 
Iraq to prepare for new attacks on America. While that choice is deadly 
wrong, it is an honest choice under the constitutional power given to 
the Congress.

Third, and most deplorable, Congress is delaying the funds by forcing 
vote after vote, while attempting to score political points, and trying 
to micromanage the war, even though war management is the President's 
constitutional responsibility.

Most sadly, this is the course of action the Democratic leadership 
has chosen--a course that will result in ''death by a thousand cuts.''

Those who are attempting to end the war precipitously, politically, 
because they think it will score them seats in Congress or perhaps even 
the White House, are putting polls and politics ahead of our national 
security. Democratic leaders have stated they intend to pick up seats 
as a result of what they have referred to as a lost war. These comments 
were not just broadcast here in the United States; this talk about war 
loss was picked up and broadcast gleefully by al-Jazeera to our enemies 
and the world.

The Los Angeles Times has reported a top House Democrat has said: Our 
goal is to keep giving them--Republicans--votes on Iraq.

The article goes on to say:




 Democratic strategists also believe that repeated votes on 


 the war will allow the party to expand its congressional 


 majorities in next year's elections by continuing to link GOP 


 lawmakers with the President and his war policies.


I am sure our troops in the field appreciate very much that some of 
the Democratic leadership are working to win the war--not the war 
against our sworn enemies blowing up our troops and killing Iraqi 
children who rely on


our protection but against fellow Americans in coming elections. Where 
is their strategy to win, to leave Iraq a stable and safe country?

As I have said, the other side's leadership, by embracing a policy of 
repeated votes and delaying funding, is denying our troops the 
resources they need. Their enemy should be al-Qaida and its murderous 
insurgents, not the President and Republican opponents.

Substituting Congress for General Petraeus's leadership and telling 
him how to run a war from 8,000 miles away is a disaster. General 
Petraeus is executing a new plan, a plan essentially recommended by the 
Baker-Hamilton Iraq Study Group, which last fall our colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle said we should follow. But now even if some 
generals in Congress think they are smarter than General Petraeus and 
can devise in legislation a better plan, which I strongly doubt, I am 
very doubtful they can adjust that plan to conditions on the 
battlefield. This is a sad reflection of how vested the Democratic 
leaders are in defeat--defeat for President Bush but defeat for our 
troops and our safety in Iraq.

Congress attempts to put artificial political timetables on the 
management of the war and does nothing to accomplish the mission. The 
Baker-Hamilton commission explicitly rejected timetables for 
withdrawal, because they recognized--the bipartisan group recognized--
it was a disaster, and many Democratic leaders have previously stated a 
legislative timetable, laying out this strategy in legislation, is 
absolutely unacceptable. What the political timetable does is give al-
Qaida the encouragement and information it needs to know when and where 
and how to attack our troops.

This January, in open session, leaders of our intelligence community 
came before the Senate Intelligence Committee to answer questions about 
establishing a political withdrawal and the consensus was alarming.