# None
## `9b79f0ac07e5e8968a7a9e48ba31e729`
`Mr. ISSA â€” 12 February 2007`

---


Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 2 minutes.

I would like to thank Congressman Honda. Mike and I came into this 
Congress together. We came in at a time of peace. We came in at a time 
in which remembering 59 years earlier the history of the Japanese 
internment was a little abstract and yet necessary. I think that it is 
no longer abstract, and I thank the gentleman from California, because 
Mr. Honda made it very clear that we have a clear and present danger in 
the same way.

It is easy to blame the Muslim community. It is easy to look at Arab 
Americans and say can we trust them.

I might point out something that is not in the body of the resolution 
but I know that Mr. Honda and I have talked about in the past. During 
the time in which we were incarcerating women and children and old men 
of Japanese ancestry, the young Japanese Americans were in Europe 
fighting and dying in record numbers, defending our country in the most 
decorated way of any unit of World War II. That is a separate 
remembrance but it cannot be separated from the fact that today Arabs 
and Muslims are fighting in the war on terror in Afghanistan, in Iraq 
and around the world.



They are in fact doing exactly the same thing. And I link the two 
because I believe that you don't respect history the way we are trying 
to today, if you don't link it to the present and the future, and you 
don't say we will learn from this terrible mistake. We can't undo what 
was done to the Japanese, Italian, and German Americans, but we can 
dedicate ourselves to ensure that this shall not happen again in this 
great Union.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.