# VETERANS DAY
## `9bbc96a509def963428369ac01ad497f`
`Ms. MURKOWSKI â€” 10 November 2009`

---


Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I rise today to take advantage of a 
unique opportunity to recognize and thank those who hold the 
distinguished title of ''veteran.'' It is because of their service, 
their commitment, and their sacrifice, that our country is what it is 
today, a great nation which stands for freedom and which shines as a 
beacon of hope and opportunity to the rest of the world.

Ninety-one years ago today, on the 11th hour, of the 11th day, of the 
11th month of 1918, the hostilities of World War I between the Allied 
nations and Germany, ceased. While the commemoration of this day was 
originally known as Armistice Day, later being renamed as ''Veterans 
Day,'' the purpose and intent has never changed. President Woodrow 
Wilson, in 1919, expressed his thoughts of this day, and they ring as 
true today as they did nine decades ago:




 To us in America, the reflections of Armistice Day will be 


 filled with solemn pride in the heroism of those who died in 


 the country's service and with gratitude for the victory, 


 both because of the thing from which it has freed us and 


 because of the opportunity it has given America to show her 


 sympathy with peace and justice in the councils of the 


 nations.


In Alaska we have the distinct pleasure and honor of having the 
largest per capita percentage of veterans of any State in the Union. We 
call them our neighbors, our coworkers, and our friends. Our 
communities benefit from the experience and expertise which they have 
brought home with them from their time in the service of our Nation. 
Today, while they may wear different clothing in place of a uniform, 
their service continues as they provide leadership and skill within the 
State of Alaska.

As we reflect on the service of heroes who have served our country in 
conflicts past such as World War I, World War II, Korea, Vietnam, the 
Persian Gulf war and others, we would be remiss if didn't also pause to 
honor the dedication of the men and women who are putting their lives 
on the line today to protect our freedom. This includes not only those 
serving in Southwest Asia but also those still in Kosovo, those still 
standing watch of the Korean demilitarized zone, and those serving and 
sacrificing in countless other countries and regions around the world.

Today, we also mourn. We mourn those veterans who made the ultimate 
sacrifice in the defense of freedom. This year, Alaska lost several 
members of our military community in the Afghanistan and Iraq 
conflicts. I extend my heartfelt sympathy to the families of our fallen 
service members.

Finally, I would like to recognize a group who often isn't honored 
enough: the families and loved ones of America's veterans. These are 
the folks who have had to see their loved ones sent away to war zones 
and who worried about their well being every second, of every minute, 
of every day until they returned. These are the folks who have had to 
singlehandedly manage the household and deal with the car, the washing 
machine, or the heater invariably breaking the second that their spouse 
departed. These are the folks who firsthand deal with the invisible 
scars and injuries of war, such as PTSD, when their loved one comes 
home. The family members of our veterans are heroes who bravely serve 
our Nation and rightfully deserve our recognition.

I am honored to have the opportunity to stand among my colleagues 
here on the Senate floor and proudly state that while we know that 
words cannot express the gratitude that a grateful nation has for its 
veterans, with a common voice we want to say thank you.
