# CONSOLIDATED NATURAL RESOURCES ACT OF 2008
## `9bcd361c487f11200d06957fb6ff436f`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 10 April 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, I rise today in strong support of S. 
2739, a package of natural resource bills that Chairman Bingaman has 
assembled. The bills that are in this package have received the 
unanimous endorsement of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources 
Committee and have cleared the House. I want to thank Senator Bingaman 
for his leadership in the Committee and I want to thank Majority Leader 
Reid for bringing this package before the Senate for consideration.

There are four bills in this package that I am particularly proud to 
support: S. 500, a bill that would form a commission to study the 
possible creation of the National Museum of the American Latino; S. 
1116, a bill that would help make better use of the water that is 
produced as a byproduct of energy development; S. 752, a bill that 
would authorize a program to assist with endangered species recovery 
along the Platte River in Colorado, Nebraska, and Wyoming; and S. 327, 
the Cesar Estrada Chavez Study Act, which would help preserve the 
legacy of one of our Nation's most important civil rights leaders.

I want to spend a couple minutes talking about each of these bills, 
but first, Mr. President, I want to discuss the process through which 
we are debating these bills.

This is, as my colleagues all know, a highly unusual process for 
debating natural resource bills. Typically, the Senate is able to take 
up and pass with the strong support the 100 Members in this Chamber--
most bills that pertain to national parks, forests, national museums, 
historic preservation, and cultural resource protections. If a bill 
clears the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee by unanimous 
consent it is likely that the full Senate will clear it by unanimous 
consent.

Why has this been the practice? Because most of the bills we pass out 
of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee are bipartisan, 
noncontroversial, and easily garner the unanimous support of 100 
Members.

This is how Congress established the Black Canyon of the Gunnison 
National Park in Colorado in 1999. It is how we passed the Great Sand 
Dunes National Park and Preserve Act in my native San Luis Valley in 
2000. It is how we established the Sand Creek Massacre National 
Historic Site in Kiowa County in 2005.

It is how we pass bills like the Buffalo Soldiers Commemoration Act, 
the Eisenhower Memorial Act, and the Ojito Wilderness Act. The list 
goes on and on.

Mr. President, on issues like health care, the economy, and Iraq, the 
parties do have real and substantial differences, and those differences 
merit serious debate here on the floor. But on how to protect our 
national treasures and traditions, we are usually in lock step.

Unfortunately, that has not been the case this year. Instead, every 
single bill that leaves the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, 
regardless of its subject or content, has encountered an objection.

Mr. President, each of us is certainly within our rights in objecting 
to a bill. That is a solemn right in this chamber, and it is one that 
ensures that when a Member has a strong, substantive objection to a 
bill, he or she can be heard.

Unfortunately, Mr. President, I fear that the objections to these 
bills make it even more difficult to make progress on the issues that 
face our Nation.

All the bills in this package have my support and the support of the 
Energy and Natural Resources Committee, but there are four bills of 
which I am particularly proud.

The first, S. 500, would help us determine how we can more properly 
recognize the contributions of Hispanic Americans to our nation's 
history. The Commission to Study the Potential Creation of the National 
Museum of the American Latino Act of 2007 would do what its title 
suggests: it would establish a commission to study the potential 
creation of a national museum dedicated to the art, culture, and 
history of Hispanic Americans. The Commission will be tasked with 
studying the impact of the potential museum and the cost of 
construction and maintenance. It will also be tasked with developing an 
action plan, a fundraising plan, and a recommendation on whether to 
proceed with construction of the museum.

The second, S. 1116, is a bill I worked on with my colleague from 
Colorado, Representative Mark Udall, which would help make better use 
of the water that is produced during energy development. Each day, more 
than two million gallons of useable groundwater are wasted, turned into 
what is known as ''produced water,'' after it is brought to the surface 
during oil and gas drilling or coal bed methane extraction. This water 
is often contaminated beyond use.

The ''More Water, More Energy, Less Waste Act of 2007'', cosponsored 
by Senators Bingaman, Domenici, and Enzi--along with the late Senator 
Thomas--initiates a feasibility study on recovering ''produced water.'' 
It also establishes a grant program to test technologies that would 
convert ''produced'' water to ''useable'' water.

This bill will be of great value in the arid West, where we are 
constantly looking for ways to increase our water supplies for crop 
irrigation, livestock watering, wildlife habitat, and recreational 
opportunities. It is deserving of swift passage.

The third bill I would like to highlight is S. 752, the Platte River 
Recovery Implementation Program and Pathfinder Modification 
Authorization Act of 2007. It is a bill that Senator Ben Nelson, 
Senator Allard, Senator Hagel and I introduced. The bill authorizes the 
Secretary of the Interior to participate in a program to help 
endangered species recovery along the Platte River in Nebraska, 
Colorado, and Wyoming. The Governors of Nebraska, Colorado, and Wyoming 
and the Department of Interior spent nine years developing the plan for 
this program, which they finalized in 2006.

S. 752 authorizes the Secretary of Interior to carry out the 
Endangered Species Recovery Program in partnership with the States. 
Under the bill, the States and Federal Government will share costs, 50-
50, on projects that provide benefits for endangered and threatened 
species recovery and that


help with the monitoring and research on the benefits of the program. 
The bill authorizes $157 million to support the federal portion of the 
work.

Finally, Mr. President, this package includes a bill, S. 327, that 
would help preserve the legacy of one of our Nation's top civil rights 
leaders, Cesar Estrada Chavez.

We all know the story of Cesar Chavez. From a family of migrant farm 
workers, Cesar Chavez began working in the fields at age 10. He moved 
from job to job across the Southwest, enduring the hardships and 
injustices of farm worker life. In 1952, at age 35, Chavez started 
working as a community activist, fighting for civil rights for all 
workers. Ten years later, he founded the National Farm Workers 
Association, which became the United Farm Workers of America, and led 
efforts to improve wages and working conditions. Chavez, through his 
work to improve the lives of farm workers across the country, is one of 
our nation's most important civil rights leaders. We must honor his 
memory and remember the sacrifices he made on our behalf.

To that end, the Cesar Estrada Chavez Study Act would authorize the 
Secretary of the Interior to conduct a resource study, not later than 3 
years after funds are made available, of sites associated with the life 
of Cesar Estrada Chavez. The study would help determine whether those 
sites meet the criteria for being listed on the National Register of 
Historic Places or possible designation as national historic landmarks. 
I am a proud co-sponsor of this bill and will continue to fight until 
it is passed.

Mr. President, I want to again thank Chairman Bingaman and Majority 
Leader Reid for their leadership in bringing this package of lands 
bills to the floor and for working to overcome the obstructionism that 
has, unfortunately, become so common in this body. These are 
bipartisan, common-sense bills that will help protect our nation's 
natural, cultural, and historic heritage, and I urge their prompt 
passage.