# AMERICA COMPETES ACT
## `9c252daf3625f183c6da6709c29689e1`
`Mr. ALEXANDER â€” 23 April 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I thank the Senator. His example with 
Senator Stevens is a good example for all of us. I hope he is right. 
The American people know we all have our principles, and we have our 
politics. They know that. But I believe they also know there are some 
issues that are simply too big for one party to solve, whether it is 
Iraq, whether it is immigration, whether it is energy independence, 
whether it is affordable health care. And one of those issues is how do 
we keep our brain power advantage so we can keep our jobs from going 
overseas to India and China.

It will take a comprehensive approach. We take for granted sometimes 
that we produce 30 percent of all the money in the world for 5 percent 
of the people. That is one of my favorite statistics. If I were a 
citizen of China or of India and I was looking at the United States and 
I saw that disproportionately our wealth comes from our brain power, I 
would be encouraged because many of the brightest people in the world 
are in China and in India, wonderful researchers, wonderful scientists. 
There is no reason in the world that they cannot use that great 
resource they have to improve their standard of living, and they are 
setting about to do it.

If the Senator from Hawaii has no objection, I thought I might talk a 
little about what is in the bill, just to go over it.

As I said, for those who like to read whole bills, it is 208 pages, 
but any contractor will tell you that it is cheaper to start from 
scratch in building a house sometimes than remodeling it. I think we 
may have found something here working together in a bipartisan way. In 
starting from scratch, we actually may have produced a better organized 
bill, more straightforward than trying to remodel a lot of existing 
laws. But here is what we sought to do.

Based upon these recommendations, this legislation doubles funding 
for the National Science Foundation over 5 years. Now, this is the work 
of Senator Inouye and Senator Stevens and their committee. This is 
merely an authorization bill--it doesn't appropriate a penny, but it 
has to be within the budget. Senator Bingaman offered an amendment, 
which I joined in with during our budget discussion, and it created 
room in the budget, nearly $1 billion of room in the budget, for the 
first year appropriations of the America COMPETES Act. So these dollars 
are within the budget, and I will talk a little more about the dollars 
a little later.

I might say one thing about the dollars. The dollars are an 
additional $16 billion in spending over the next 4 years. That is real 
money. But we might remember on what else we spend money. That is about 
2 months of the war in Iraq. We spend about $8 billion a month on the 
war in Iraq. We spent $237 billion on debt last year, $378 billion on 
Medicare, $545 on Social Security, and $100 billion or so on 
hurricanes. These are all very important priorities, but somehow we 
have to put gas in the engine, and the gas in the engine is our brain 
power advantage.

We have to invest in research, education--K-12--in order to keep the 
advantage that creates the dollars that pay these bills for our most 
important programs. But we have worked hard. We have worked hard to 
have fiscal discipline. The $16 billion over the next 4 years that this 
bill would authorize to spend, and which is within the budget for this 
year, is a significant savings over the original legislation last year. 
More than $3 billion over the 4 years in authorized funding has been 
cut from last year's competitiveness bills passed by the Energy and 
Commerce Committees.

We also worked hard to avoid duplicative undergraduate scholarship 
programs that were proposed in earlier legislation, and it reduced the 
cost of a number of other proposed and existing programs. For example, 
the Robert Noyse scholarship program of the National Science Foundation 
was very


similar to a recommendation of the Augustine report. So after 
discussions with the National Science Foundation in our homework 
sessions, we thought, well, why create a new duplicative program when 
we already have a good one. So we simply sought to expand it.

With regard to the education and energy portions of the bill, the 
total cost closely tracks the President's proposed American Competitive 
Initiative. Remember, he put in $6 billion in his budget last year. The 
President has proposed over 10 years doubling research funding at the 
National Science Foundation, the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, and the Department of Energy's Office of Science. The cost 
of the commerce portion of this legislation is a bit higher, but that 
is because Chairman Inouye and Cochairman Stevens agreed last year that 
they wanted to double the National Science Foundation's funding at a 
faster rate, of about 5 years rather than 10. So I would argue that 
this is progrowth legislation and a small price to pay for that growth 
in our standard of living.

Mr. President, I would say to the Senator from Hawaii that any time 
he would like to interrupt my presentation, I hope he will.

Some of the specific provisions are the doubling of funding for the 
National Science Foundation, I just mentioned, from $5.6 billion in the 
current year to $11.2 billion in 2011. Before I arrived, the Congress 
doubled funding for the National Institutes of Health with a great 
payoff, most people felt, in terms of our health and research for cures 
for diseases. But we did not do as good a job during that period of 
time on the physical sciences, which are also important to the health 
sciences. This, hopefully, will begin to change that.

Second, setting the Department of Energy's Office of Science on track 
to double in funding over 10 years, and increasing from $3.6 billion in 
the current year to $5.2 billion in fiscal year 2011; establishing the 
innovation acceleration research program, which will direct Federal 
agencies funding research and science and technology to set as a goal 
dedicating approximately 8 percent of their research and development 
budgets toward high-risk frontier research. This was a recommendation 
of both of the major organizations, the Augustine committee and the 
Council on Competitiveness.

What this means is that there are so many good proposals before the 
peer review and merit review groups that give out basic research grants 
that they obviously tend to be a little more conservative when 
presented with so many good ideas. The disadvantage of that is that it 
reduces the impulse to take a few risks, to roll the dice, or to try 
some idea that has less of a chance of succeeding but might be the next 
Google or the next hybrid or the next Internet or the next stealth 
invention. So this legislation encourages all through the America 
COMPETES Act in virtually every section that we fund, the idea of 
setting as a goal--not a mandate but as a goal--8 percent of the 
research and development budget toward this high-risk frontier 
research.

Next, it authorizes bringing the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology up from $703 million next year to $937 million in fiscal 
year 2011. It would direct NASA to increase funding for basic research. 
It will authorize coordinating ocean and atmospheric research and 
education at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and 
other agencies to promote U.S. leadership in these important fields. 
This has been a major priority of Senator Inouye, as well as others.

The Augustine committee, at our request, was asked to give us some 
priorities and not just give us a random list. And I might say, when 
they gave us 20 recommendations instead of 10, and they gave them in 
priority, they didn't just go out and get the first 20 they heard 
about. Over the summer, the working group of 21 members--and I am sure 
the Council on Competitiveness did the same--considered hundreds of 
ideas. So our leading scientists and the people we asked to give us 
their best advice on science and their best advice on medicine and 
their best advice on engineering, they waded through dozens and dozens 
of operating programs and other ideas and gave us just a handful of the 
best ideas.


This has been a tremendously important screening process. I believe 
one reason this has been so broadly accepted in the Senate and by those 
outside the Senate is that it is not just one Senator's idea of what is 
a great math program or another's best friend's idea of a good research 
program. This is, in effect, a merit-based, peer-reviewed set of 
recommendations and an answer to the question as to what are the most 
important things we can do to keep our brain power advantage.

So, No. 1, authorizing competitive grants to States to better align 
elementary and secondary education with knowledge and skills needed for 
success in colleges and universities and the Armed Forces.

Now, what that means in plain English is to make sure our elementary, 
middle, and high schools are teaching what students need in order to go 
to college, to go to work, and to go to the Armed Forces. That is the 
key.

Next, strengthen the skills of thousands of math and science teachers 
by establishing training and educational programs at summer institutes 
hosted by the National Laboratories, and increasing support for the 
teacher institutes at the National Science Foundation's institutes.

One Senator said to me the other day: This is new, isn't it, the idea 
of giving the National Laboratories such a specific role in training 
outstanding math and science teachers and inspiring math and science 
students to learn and achieve more in math and science? The answer is, 
yes, it is new. But the feeling of the Augustine commission and others 
is that we have a crisis in math and science. And that is not too 
strong a word.

The former Governor of North Carolina, Jim Hunt, told me the 
University of North Carolina only graduated three physics teachers in a 
recent year from its college of education. So we are not going to learn 
much physics if we don't have anybody teaching much physics. So why not 
take advantage of these remarkable National Laboratories we have around 
the country. I guess there are about two dozen or so of them, like the 
Oak Ridge Laboratory in the State of Tennessee, but there is also Los 
Alamos and Lawrence Livermore. They are all around the country. If you 
are going to inspire a student or inspire a teacher to be active in 
math and science, why not place them in an environment for 4 weeks in 
the summer with some of the finest math and science researchers and 
individuals in the United States?

It would be a choice for a young musician--give them a choice whether 
to be on the road with Johnny Cash or be in the business office at the 
Grand Ole Opry, and they will go on the road every time because that is 
how a singer learns to be a singer. And that is how a student learns 
what they can do with math and the joy of mathematics.

When I was Governor of Tennessee we created summer academies--we 
called them the Governor's schools--for outstanding students and 
teachers of various subjects. About 20 States have done the same thing. 
We have found it is the best money we ever spent to offer 4 weeks at 
the University of Tennessee connected to the Oak Ridge National 
Laboratory for 200 of the most outstanding high school juniors 
interested in science and math. The teachers love to teach them, the 
students love to come. Instead of becoming a nerd in their rural 
school, suddenly they are with 200 peers, and they are all celebrated 
for their academic achievements. Why not use these National 
Laboratories to our advantage?

No other country in the world has the National Laboratories that we 
have. One thing they can do is to help inspire the next generation of 
math and science students and improve this generation and the next 
generation of math and science teachers.

So expanding the Robert Noyse teaching scholarship program at the 
National Science Foundation--this is a very fine program at the 
National Science Foundation which has had for a long time a role in 
education as well as research. This program trains individuals to 
become math and science teachers in high-need local education agencies.

Assisting States in establishing or expanding statewide specialty 
schools in math and science. Now, I don't know whether the State of 
Virginia or the State of Hawaii has a full-time residential school in 
science and math. I know


the State of North Carolina does, and I went to see it. Governor Jim 
Hunt set it up. I went to see it when I was Governor. We didn't believe 
we had enough money to create one in Tennessee, so we created those 
summer academies about which I just spoke. But Governor Bredesen, our 
current Democratic Governor of Tennessee, wants to start, and has made 
a very small start, of what we call in the legislation a specialty 
school in math and science, and several other States have followed 
North Carolina's example. This would help States up to about a 50-
percent level. All the rest of the money would have to be private, 
State, or local.

Establish schools like the North Carolina residential high school for 
math and science. Not only will it give gifted students a greater 
knowledge, but it helps us compete with the world. North Carolina has 
felt as though over the last 20 years it has helped keep many of those 
bright students in North Carolina because if they go there to school, 
they may go there to college, or at least they may come back if they go 
somewhere else, and then they create more jobs and build up that 
economy.

Facilitating the expansion of advanced placement in international 
baccalaureate programs by increasing the number of teachers prepared to 
teach those courses and foreign language courses. The AP courses, 
advanced placement courses, are a ticket to success. College entrance 
examiners read them carefully. If you get a 4 or a 5--those are the 
highest grades in math or science--or if you take several of them, your 
chances of being admitted to a variety of institutions are increased. 
But they are offered to a very limited number of the students--not 
limited by their brains but limited by their money. They either do not 
have the money to pay for the tests or they do not go to the schools 
where there are enough teachers who are trained to teach in the 
preparation for their tests.


This builds on a program in Houston, TX, which has been very 
successful in the last 10 years, of expanding the opportunities for 
low-income students to take more advanced placement courses to prepare 
for college and also to train teachers to meet that demand.

Senator Hutchison and Senator Bingaman have been two of the leaders 
in this for 10 years in the Senate.

There are a variety of other proposals. Adopting another program from 
Texas, the You Teach program--this wasn't sent over from the White 
House although this is two straight Texas programs; this is from the 
National Academy of Sciences, because they have a terrific program at 
the University of Texas at Austin, where they take students who are 
enrolled in chemistry and recruit them into the College of Education 
with an attractive scholarship and then the idea was to pay them 
$10,000 a year to teach at a high-needs school for 5 years after they 
leave. In other words, they get the people into teaching and they will 
put them in the schools where they are needed the most. That is called 
the You Teach program. It would expand that.

There was a program from the University of Pennsylvania which would 
take teachers who are now teaching and give them intensive summer 
training and improve their ability to teach math and science, all 
toward the same objectives.

Then the President proposed Math Now grants, improving the teaching 
of mathematics in the elementary and middle schools. That is in here as 
well, after it went through the process. Then we expand the programs to 
increase the number of students who study critical foreign languages 
and become proficient. That was recognized here for a variety of 
reasons as a part of keeping our brain power advantage.

Finally, there are a number of proposals that would identify 
continuing organizations within the White House and Cabinet councils 
and other studies to try to keep a spotlight on this subject.

This is not the whole answer to the book ''The World Is Flat.'' It is 
on the same subject. It is part of the answer. It is a good start. In 
fact, it is a very good beginning. But we need to continue this 
attention to our position in competitiveness.

What I have tried to review here is how this legislation came to the 
floor, why it has attracted this unusual leadership from the majority 
leader and Republican leader, why it has had such a sense of urgency 
from senior leaders such as Senator Inouye, Senator Stevens, and 
others, why today it has 56 sponsors, why the House of Representatives 
is considering legislation on a parallel track, and why I believe there 
is no more important piece of legislation that will come before us in 
this session of Congress.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.