# None
## `9c75fd968c6040a81aa5614847a37ef0`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to come before the 
House, and we know that we have been working very hard over the last 
couple of days in trying to move these appropriation bills. I hope that 
we are successful and on schedule in moving these bills, because the 
American people deserve it.

Also, as you know, when the 30-Something Working Group comes to the 
floor, we share the latest numbers out of Iraq. Unfortunately, they 
have gotten greater than they were before as it relates to casualties. 
Total deaths in Iraq at this time stands, as of 10:00 a.m. on the 7th 
of June, 3,490; and wounded in action and returned to duty, 14,208; and 
wounded in action and not returned to duty, 11,622.

I think it's also important to know that when we moved the emergency


supplemental act or bill, those two amendments did the following, one, 
provided those that are in harm's way with the necessary MWRAP vehicles 
that they needed for protection against IEDs, which is one of the main 
reasons why we lose men and women in Iraq.

It also set forth the benchmarks that we know that there will be two 
reports by September that will come before this Congress and that the 
dollars that are only troop essential, only for troops and not for the 
actual mission, will be taken under serious consideration.

I say, Mr. Speaker, that it's important that we have a bipartisan 
approach as it relates to looking at these two reports that will be 
given to us.

The only way we're able to find our way out of Iraq any time in the 
very near future is through a bipartisan spirit. I think it's important 
that we talk about this from a leadership standpoint.

To get out of Iraq and do the things that we need to do to meet the 
needs of this country, it's going to take courage; it's going to take 
leadership. I am not just talking about the elected leadership in this 
House on the Republican side or on the Democratic side, I am talking 
about leadership on behalf of the Members of this Congress in a 
bipartisan way from east to west, from south to north.



We have accomplished bipartisanship in the past on major issues that 
have come before this Congress. And many times I speak of the fact that 
it was the Democratic leadership that brought these issues to the 
floor, and we knew all along that a number of our Republican colleagues 
wanted to vote on these issues. But, now, in the 110th Congress we've 
provided an opportunity for them to do so. This is not a follow or lead 
kind of situation when it comes down to the safety of those that are in 
harm's way.

And I just wanted to also mention, not only the benchmarks, not only 
the reports and the debate that's going to be coming up on this floor 
between now and September, but also what took place in that other 
amendment, the full funding for the gulf coast area as it relates to 
Louisiana, Mississippi, even Texas, Katrina, Wilma, and Rita, funding 
that has been clogged up in this process for a very long time.

But I want to thank those that were very courageous in hanging in 
there and making sure in the bipartisan way that we passed that 
legislation to help those Americans that count on us to stand up on 
behalf of their needs as a country.

Also, I think it's important that within that legislation, that 
emergency supplemental that passed through, off this floor, in a 
bipartisan way, waived the 10 percent Stafford Act, which I recently 
heard my good colleague and my friend, the majority whip speak in a 
very eloquent way about this recently, Mr. Clyburn.

9/11, the 10 percent requirement local match for Federal dollars in 
the Stafford Act, that's when Federal dollars are given to locals after 
a disaster, that the 10 percent match was waived. New York did not have 
to carry out that match. Even my very own community in south Florida, 
when Hurricane Andrew hit, that 10 percent was waived. And a number of 
other natural disasters, in California, one earthquake was 10 percent, 
was waived.

But until we had the strong leadership here in this Congress to even 
bring this issue to the forefront, because the administration did not 
want to deal with this issue, that it was brought to the floor to waive 
the funding for the people of New Orleans and the people of the gulf 
coast and all of the small parishes and cities in between. I think that 
came to some sort of number of 3.6-something billion, somewhere in that 
neighborhood, and that match alone saved the City of New Orleans, a 
little bit under a billion dollars with the 10 percent on that number.

I think it's important to understand that when we work in a 
bipartisan way, we can get things accomplished.

Now, could that have passed with just Democratic votes? Of course it 
could have. But there are less than 100 votes against us from sending 
those emergency dollars, not only to those victims of Hurricane Rita, 
Hurricane Katrina, Hurricane Wilma, but also it allowed us to have the 
opportunity to be able to stand up on behalf of the children without 
health insurance.

When I talk about bipartisanship and tie Iraq into that equation, I 
think it's important for me to pull the evidence out of how we've 
worked together under the democratic leadership in the House and 
bringing issues to the floor that we can be Americans on, not just 
Democrats and Republicans.

Implementing the 9/11 Commission recommendation, H.R. 1, passed with 
299 votes, and with 68 Republicans voting in the affirmative with 
Democrats.

Raising the minimum wage, H.R. 2, passed 315, with 82 Republican 
votes, and the rest, a supermajority of them were Democratic votes.

Funding to enhance stem cell research, 253 in the affirmative, 37 of 
those votes were Republican votes.

Making prescription drugs more affordable for seniors, 255; 24 
Republicans joined us in that effort.

Cutting student loan, low-interest rates in half, H.R. 5, 356 votes; 
124 of those votes were Republican votes.

Working in a bipartisan spirit, creating a long-term energy 
initiative as it relates to making sure that we're able to invest in 
the Midwest versus the Middle East, 264 votes, which is H.R. 6, with 36 
Republicans joining us in that effort.

I think it's important to know that, and that was just in the Six for 
'06. But I think it's important for the Members to understand that it's 
important, and as we approach these reports and these benchmarks and 
the things that the Iraqi Government must do to be able to continue to 
receive, even beyond the 3-month funding that we've put in place until 
September; I want the Members to pay attention to these reports as they 
come before the Congress.

I want them to pay attention to the debate that we will have next 
month on this issue, and vote as an American, not as someone as a 
Democrat or Republican. I just want the Members to be able to 
understand that the Democratic leadership is providing this opportunity 
for us to come together as one on behalf of those that are in harm's 
way.

I think it's also important for the report that comes in in 
September, and I will tell you as a person that's paying very close 
attention to this, let alone, Member of Congress, I don't know if the 
report is going to be much better than what the situation is right now, 
but if there's a process to get our men and women out of--our combat 
troops, I must add, out of Iraq, going door to door, kicking in doors, 
3:00 searches to bring about security in an area of Iraq or Baghdad 
itself, we have to allow the Iraqi Government to be able to do those 
things on behalf of their country to be able to carry out those 
security missions.

And I will tell you, someone that has, you know, children and, 
hopefully they will have children, and as we move on to future 
generations, I think it's important for us to understand that there has 
to be some point in this war where we give a supermajority of the 
responsibility of security to the Iraqi people.

I think it's very, very important that if we don't live by the rules 
that have been put forth in these benchmarks and the benchmarks that 
was in the emergency supplemental, and if we don't treat these two 
reports to Congress as Members of Congress versus a member of a given 
party, then this whole process that we set up to be able to give the 
administration an opportunity to share not only to the world, but to 
this Congress, that our mission there is still needed for security of 
the Iraqi people.

I think it's very, very important for us, because, you know, it's 
good to say, well, you know it's good to make sure that families are 
secure. But it's counterproductive in many ways. And Madam Speaker, I 
think it's important that we really reflect on what are the positives 
and the negatives.

Well, let me just talk a few minutes about the possible positives, 
making sure that we can help for a longer period of time the Iraqi 
Government to be able to secure itself and stand up on its own two 
feet, have the kind of democracy that's good for Iraq, probably not as 
good for the United States, but good for that area of the world. And 
there are some other countries and people are saying, Good job, United 
States. Those are the possible positives.

Let's talk about the negatives just for a minute; not to say that 
there


aren't other positives that are out there, but I don't want to take too 
much time on this particular point.

The negatives: The negatives come in a package that many of us cannot 
comprehend. And I know a number of Members have not taken the privilege 
that many Members that are from the national security arena or serve on 
the committees, but I welcome the Members to go to the Pentagon, or I 
welcome the Members to get the kind of briefing that many of us have 
received here in Congress about what our men and women are doing in 
Iraq.

Well, it goes something like this, or you can just watch any of the 
cable news shows and it'll show you exactly what they're doing. Many 
times, as it relates to these security missions, because there's a 
civil war that's going on right now in Iraq that our troops are in the 
middle of, they have to carry out security missions. And in those 
security missions, many times, locks and deadbolt locks on doors are 
kicked in, and it's not at a reasonable hour when folks know when 
you're coming, house search, looking for insurgents. 3:00, 4:00 in the 
morning, families are brought into the middle of the floor, flashlights 
are shining in their face.

And I will tell you this: Someone that's living here in the United 
States, if something like that was to happen at my home, I'm pretty 
sure that all involved would never forget the event.

It's motivating our actions there of fighting on behalf of the Iraqi 
Government and the people and trying to keep the peace, even though 
we're all well-intentioned, and our purpose is not to harm individuals, 
but as you look at it, it's one of the things that kind of come along 
with security in that part of the world. And it's necessary as long as 
we're there. And that's the reason why we have to get our combat troops 
out.

Just like many Americans were super-motivated after 9/11 to go to 
either one of our Armed Forces offices to sign up to join the military 
and go to Afghanistan, these young men, mainly, and women, are signing 
up to join the jihad against the United States of America in a radical 
way. And it doesn't make sense to a lot of us, but all they remember is 
that someone who had a U.S. flag on their shoulder kicked in their 
door, and instead of bringing the peace, and instead of us getting the 
kind of rose petals and seen as liberators; and as it was explained to 
us by the administration and by many of the folks that came before the 
Armed Services Committee, I think it's important for us to understand 
that the negative is the counterproductive action that is taking place 
now that's putting us in a situation that we've never been in before, 
where we have other countries questioning our motivation for being in 
Iraq.

So I want to make sure I'm saying it in a very plain way, because I'm 
not trying to get into acronyms and trying to head into an area that 
many Members, because you don't serve on the area or the subject, or 
you haven't served professionally in the Armed Forces, or you haven't 
been in a command position, I'm not talking--and I haven't either, but 
I want to make sure that we all understand, because I think the coming 
days and the coming weeks are going to be very, very important to not 
only the future of Iraq, but also the future of our country. I want to 
make sure that we have an opportunity to talk about some other issues 
here today.

But I wanted to recognize my colleague from Pennsylvania, who is here 
to not only talk about this issue, but other issues that may be facing 
the Congress.

I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Sestak).