# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `9cfeb2fc6870af9704f6f8da4e76acbe`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 26 May 2010`

---


Mr. CORNYN. The Senator is absolutely right. Where there is a 
combination or layered approach to dealing


with illegal immigration, there have been great successes, including an 
effort to use prosecution of people for crossing and incarcerating them 
for a short period of time, which acts as a further deterrent.

The Senator raises another important point. While I certainly support 
his effort to try to get sufficient National Guard on the border, 1,200 
won't cut it, not with a 2,000-mile border. We need more boots on the 
ground. We need to also make sure we support our local and State law 
enforcement people who are standing in the gap in the short term. That 
is why I appreciate the Senators' support on the other amendment we 
hope to vote on. We need the Southwest border task force to deal with 
these high-intensity drug trafficking programs. We also need to make 
sure we use the latest technology.

The distinguished Senator is the ranking member on the Armed Services 
Committee. He is well aware of the use of the military unmanned aerial 
vehicles and, I believe--and I think he would agree with me--they could 
be used as a good effect, as a multiplier effect for the Border Patrol 
and National Guard there, something that could be used for training 
purposes for the National Guard, who have had experience using those in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

Finally, we need not only Border Patrol and National Guard, we need 
Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. These are the people who actually catch 
the guns that are bought in bulk through straw purchasers and brought 
across the border that are used by the cartels. All of these Federal 
agencies--from ICE, CBP, DEA, ATF--all of them represent additional 
boots on the ground that could be used to help secure our border.

I appreciate the support both Arizona Senators have given, as well as 
Senator Hutchison, who is a cosponsor. But we need a permanent 
solution, not a temporary Band-Aid which I believe the President's 
proposal represents.