# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `9d4af634ba254441262d62acc078cf8e`
`Mr. BAYH â€” 8 September 2008`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart to honor the 
life of SGT Brian K. Miller from Pendleton, IN. Brian was 37 years old 
when he lost his life on August 2, 2008, in Abd Allah, Iraq, from 
injuries sustained when his vehicle overturned. He was a member of D 
Company, 1st Battalion, 293rd Infantry Division, 76th Infantry Brigade, 
Army National Guard of Huntington, IN.

Today, I join Brian's family and friends in mourning his death. Brian 
will forever be remembered as a loving husband, father, son, brother, 
friend, and soldier. He is survived by his wife, Becky Miller; his 
children, Nikki and Austin Miller; his mother, Donna Cook; his sister, 
Tammy Osalear; and his brother, Kevin Miller. Brian was preceded in 
death by his father, Glen Miller; and his brother, Kenny Miller.

A lifelong Hoosier, Brian was born in Indianapolis, IN, and graduated 
from Pendleton Heights High School in 1990. Driven to public service, 
he joined the Indiana Army National Guard as a metal worker in 1989, 
while still in high school. Brian was assigned to Company D (HM), 738th 
Maintenance Battalion in Indianapolis and later moved to 1413th 
Engineer Detachment in Edinburgh, Indiana, where he was a vehicle 
mechanic and a welder. He later served time with Company C (HM), 38th 
Main Support Battalion as a welder and vehicle mechanic.

For 19 years, Brian devoted himself to national service through the 
Indiana National Guard. He assisted in Hurricane Katrina recovery 
efforts in the Mississippi Valley and in security for the 1996 Olympics 
in Atlanta. In March, Brian was deployed to Iraq, serving as a truck 
commander for more than 20 combat logistics patrols and working full-
time as a technician with the Indiana Army National Guard. His comrades 
remember Brian as a respected leader who brought both professionalism 
and humor to his service, and as a man who loved his family. For his 
exceptional service and sacrifice, Brian was awarded the Army 
Achievement Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Humanitarian Service 
Medal, Army Reserve Component Achievement Medal with 5 Oak Leaf 
clusters, Armed Forces Reserve Medal, Iraqi Campaign Medal, Global War 
on Terrorism Service Medal, Army Service Ribbon, and the Joint 
Meritorious Unit Award.

While we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we can take 
pride in the example Brian set. Today and always, Brian will be 
remembered by family, friends, and fellow Hoosiers as a true American 
hero, and we cherish the sacrifice he made while dutifully serving his 
country.

As I search for words to do justice to this valiant fallen soldier, I 
recall President Abraham Lincoln's words as he addressed the families 
of soldiers who died at Gettysburg:




 We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow 


 this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled 


 here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or 


 detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 


 say here, but it can never forget what they did here.


This statement is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, 
as we can take some measure of solace in knowing that Brian's heroism 
and memory will outlive the record of the words here spoken.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Brian K. Miller in the Record 
of the U.S. Senate for his service to this country and for his profound 
commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. When I think about this 
struggle in which we are engaged, and the immeasurable pain that comes 
with so great a loss, I pray that Brian's family can find comfort in 
the words of the prophet Isaiah who said:




 He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will 


 wipe away tears from off all faces.


May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Brian.














 Sergeant Gary M. Henry


Mr. President, I also rise today with a heavy heart to honor the life 
of SGT Gary M. Henry from Indianapolis, IN. Gary was 34 years old when 
he lost his life on August 4, 2008, in Baghdad, Iraq, from injuries 
sustained from a roadside bomb that hit his vehicle. He was a member of 
the 38th Military Police Company, 38th Infantry Division, Army National 
Guard in Danville, IN.

Today, I join Gary's family and friends in mourning his death. Gary 
will forever be remembered as a loving husband, devoted father, son, 
brother, friend, and soldier. He is survived by his wife, Regina Lynn; 
his children, Shelby Brooke, Gavin Michael, and Ashtyn Taylor; his 
father, Gary Henry; his mother and step-father, Marajo and Rick Castor; 
his sister, Jennifer Clark; his step-sister, Stevie Ewing; his step-
brother, Jon Castor; and his grandparents, Margaret Hawkins, Orville 
Henry, and Pat Henry.



Gary Henry was one of Indianapolis' great public servants, and his 
passion was visible in every aspect of his life. He joined the Indiana 
National Guard in 1991 while he was a student at Whiteland High School. 
Gary retired from the Guard 12 years ago, but rejoined in 2007, hearing 
once again the call to national service. A 12-year veteran of the 
Indianapolis Fire Department, Gary was known to his peers as a team 
player, a dependable and upstanding leader who could be counted on 
during hard times. He served as a captain and coordinator of special 
operations, head of the crisis response team, a paramedic, and a Marion 
County Deputy.

While we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we can take 
pride in the extraordinary example Gary set. Today and always, Gary 
will be remembered by family, friends, and fellow Hoosiers as a true 
American hero, and we cherish the sacrifice he made while dutifully 
serving his country.

As I search for words to do justice to this valiant fallen soldier, I 
recall President Abraham Lincoln's words as he addressed the families 
of soldiers who died at Gettysburg:




 We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow 


 this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled 


 here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or 


 detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 


 say here, but it can never forget what they did here.


This statement is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, 
as we can take some measure of solace in knowing that Gary's heroism 
and memory will outlive the record of the words here spoken.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Gary M. Henry in the Record of 
the U.S. Senate for his service to this country and for his profound 
commitment to freedom, democracy, and peace. When I think about this 
struggle in which we are engaged, and the immeasurable pain that comes 
with so great a loss, I pray that Gary's family can find comfort in the 
words of the prophet Isaiah who said:




 He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will 


 wipe away tears from off all faces.


May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Gary.













Specialist Jonathan D. Menke


Further, Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart to honor the 
life of SPC Jonathan D. Menke from Madison, IN. Jon was 22 years old 
when he lost his life on August 4, 2008, in Baghdad, Iraq, from 
injuries sustained from a roadside bomb that detonated near his 
vehicle. He was a member of the 38th Military Police Company, 38th 
Infantry Division, Army National Guard in Danville, IN.

Today, I join Jonathan's family and friends in mourning his death. 
Jonathan will forever be remembered as a loving son, brother, friend 
and soldier. He is survived by his mother, Debbie Kay Estes Sizemore; 
his father and stepmother, Daniel and Paula Menke; his sisters, Kristen 
Pearson and Nichole Menke; and his brother, Matthew Eversole. Jon was 
preceded in death by his brother, Shane Pearson.

A lifelong Hoosier, Jon was born in Columbus, IN, and raised in 
Madison. A 2005 graduate of Madison Consolidated High School, Jon was a 
successful student with many talents. He was a member of the football 
and track teams, qualifying for a regional meet as a member of the 400-
meter relay team. He was on the honor roll, was awarded for his art 
skills in sculpture, and had leading roles in school plays. A natural 
artist, Jon also played guitar and banjo.

In March of 2004, Jon answered the call to serve his country and 
joined the Indiana National Guard. He graduated from basic training at 
Fort Leonard Wood in 2005. Returning to his education, Jon attended 
Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis and Ivy Tech in 
Indianapolis. In February of 2008, Jon was called to active duty and 
deployed to Kuwait and later to East Baghdad, his last assignment. Jon 
was an exemplary soldier. For his outstanding service and sacrifice, 
Jon was awarded the Bronze Star Medal, the Purple Heart, Army Good 
Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal with 
Bronze Service Star, Global War On Terrorism Service Medal, Army 
Service Ribbon, Overseas Service Ribbon and the Combat Action Badge.

While we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we can take 
pride in the example Jon set. Today and always, Jon will be remembered 
by family, friends, and fellow Hoosiers as a true American hero, and we 
cherish the sacrifice he made while dutifully serving his country.

As I search for words to do justice to this valiant fallen soldier, I 
recall President Abraham Lincoln's words as he addressed the families 
of soldiers who died at Gettysburg:




 We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow 


 this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled 


 here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add 


 detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 


 say here, but it can never forget what they did here.


This statement is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, 
as we can take some measure of solace in knowing that Jon's heroism and 
memory will outlive the record of the words here spoken.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Jonathan D. Menke in the 
Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to this country and for his 
profound commitment to freedom, democracy, and peace. When I think 
about this struggle in which we are engaged, and the immeasurable pain 
that comes with so great a loss, I pray that Jon's family can find 
comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah who said:




 He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will 


 wipe away tears from off all faces.


May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Jon.
