# None
## `9d64d9a022c9f89346bcd825110931ec`
`Mr. CARTER â€” 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. CARTER. I thank my friend for yielding, and I thank my friend for 
holding this special order this night where we try to lay the truth out 
about what is going on with our soldiers.

I have had the opportunity to go to Iraq on four different occasions 
and visit with soldiers. I am a blessed Congressman in that I have the 
very privilege and honor of representing Fort Hood, Texas. Fort Hood, 
Texas, is the only two division post in America, and both of those 
divisions are now famous for operations that have taken place in Iraq.

The 4th Infantry Division, one of the divisions at Fort Hood, 
captured Saddam Hussein. The 1st Calvary Division put on a free 
election in Baghdad. Both were major accomplishments in this war, major 
accomplishments in the future of Iraq, and the blood, sweat and tears 
that went into those projects have been brought back to central Texas 
on numerous occasions. So it is clearly an honor for me to be able to 
stand up and talk about what is going on in Iraq and why we, in my 
opinion, my humble opinion, and I think the opinion of those who really 
think about the issues, it is my opinion that we must stay the course.

What I want to be able to promise, I want to look every soldier that 
I see, and I see soldiers every week because I go back home every week 
and I go visit these soldiers, and I see them and I tell them what I 
want for them is I want them to come home, just like every American 
wants those soldiers to come home. But when the 4th Infantry Division, 
III Corps and the 1st Calvary Division and all those the other fine 
soldiers march out of Iraq, I want to see them marching out under ''The 
Star Spangled Banner'' and the red, white and blue, and not the white 
flag, and that is what they want too.

Every soldier I have spoken to, bar none, has told me they are doing 
a good job, they are winning, they will win, they want to stay the 
course. They want to finish the job they started. They say they owe it 
to their fallen comrades. They owe it to the effort they have put 
forward on behalf of humanity in Iraq.

I get real upset and tired when I hear people ragging on and 
insulting and writing stories about the ''evil American soldier.'' The 
evil American soldier that they describe doesn't exist. American 
soldiers are some of the closest things to sainthood that I have seen, 
because they are willing to stand up and fight for people, in many 
cases that don't even like them.

But what is really wonderful and what has changed in Iraq and what 
needs to be recognized by everyone is the last time I was over there in 
July, previous to that I was over there in May of 2006. First let me 
tell you, May of 2006 the weather was a lot better than the last day of 
July in 2007, and it was, as we say in Texas, it was hotter than a $3 
pistol over there. But, seriously, when I went over this time, the 
difference was the interaction between ordinary Iraqi civilians and 
United States marines and United States soldiers. And they all talked 
about it at length, and I saw it demonstrated.

Prior to that time, I had never seen an Iraqi policeman anywhere. 
When we were in Ramadi, there was a pickup truck full of policemen on 
every corner and they were patrolling the streets, and people, ordinary 
people, were doing ordinary business in an area that had at one time 
been the bloodiest battlefield in Iraq, where they had pounded each 
other for days across this five-lane road. Now, ordinary Iraqi citizens 
of all ages, dressed all different ways, men and women and children, 
were walking, going about ordinary business there, addressing United 
States soldiers and United States marines, talking to them, discussing 
things with them, discussing things with their local politicians. It 
was an amazing turnaround. Amazing.

I talked to a young soldier, he couldn't have been more than about 
19, a tow-headed kid, and I said, ''Tell me how it has changed?'' He 
said, ''Well, sir, you know, they plant these explosive devices in 
these streets and they plant them in the curbs and they plant them in 
garbage cans.'' He said, ''Boy, we used to crawl down these streets, 
watching everything, looking everywhere, just really concerned that the 
next step might blow up on us. Now we approach the streets and a member 
of the Friends of Iraq,'' I believe it is called, they have a belt 
across their chest, ''steps out and says, 'Excuse me, but don't go down 
this street. There is an explosive device planted in the middle of 
street. The arms of the other explosives are in that blue building over 
there. And one block over, the green front building, that is where the 
guys who planted it are.' '' He said, ''Sir, that makes life a whole 
lot easier for a marine patrolling the streets here.'' You know what? 
That is a good story, because that is Iraqis talking to soldiers.

We visited with sheiks, and they told us that they had come to the 
realization when al Qaeda began to kidnap their families and try to 
make them take certain positions by kidnapping their families, they 
realized, like a revelation, who the bad guys were.

Americans had never kidnapped their families. Americans had never 
intimidated them in that fashion. They had never seen anything from 
American soldiers but trying to help, picking up the garbage, trying to 
make the sewer work, trying to make the electrical plant work. And then 
they realized these people were kidnapping their children and in many 
instances killing their children to try to pressure the sheiks to get 
their tribes to do certain things. So the sheiks said, that is it. That 
is it. We have had enough of this. And they went to their tribes and 
they told them, we are going to join the Americans.

These were Sunnis. So the first thing, of course, that we had to be 
concerned about was we hear so much about the difference between Sunnis 
and Shias, the sectarian violence. Was this going to create a rift in 
Iraq? We heard this story.

We have got General Funk who is a very good friend of mine who lives 
in my district. His son is in command in another location in Iraq. I 
also went to visit him while I was over there. He is a colonel. He told 
me that the week before, I think it was 11 or 12 Shiite sheiks came to 
his place where he was settled in and wanted to meet him and said, ''We 
have decided to join in helping the Americans get rid of al Qaeda.'' So 
that is the whole story.

Those of us who can remember back to the Vietnam War, we were told we 
were going to win the hearts and the minds of the people and that is 
how you won this type of war. We haven't heard that term in this war, 
but I remember that term. And the difference is, we never quite won the 
hearts and minds of the people because of mistakes that were made.

General Petraeus' plan was to capture the hearts and minds of the 
Iraqi people on our side, and I believe he is succeeding, and I 
believe, given the tools, he will continue to succeed. I can tell you 
one thing, he has got the best fighting force that ever walked on this 
Earth and the best bunch of human beings that are trying to help him do 
it, and we should support them in every form or fashion. That is what I 
think this war is all about. That is how we will walk out under the 
red, white and blue, and not a white flag.



So I thank my friend for yielding to me.