# FAA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `9d8dc507aabeee33274f9a871e98ff82`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I hope no one is out of breath this week 
as a result of working on this bill. We had


one vote on Monday at 5:30 p.m. and have not voted since. With 
legislation this important to this country, why are we not able to move 
ahead and cast votes and finish this legislation?

This is about FAA reauthorization which includes the issue of 
modernization of our air traffic control system, which is very 
important. We read in the newspapers these days about the additional 
inspections that are required of airlines. We read about airlines going 
bankrupt because of fuel costs. We read that the FAA system for air 
traffic control is archaic. We are told that the GPS system in your car 
is more sophisticated than the system by which we move airplanes around 
this country in the air traffic control system. We hear the problems 
with the air traffic controllers, the contract problems they have had 
with the FAA, the shortage of air traffic controllers, the number who 
will retire in the near future, and the need for training of additional 
controllers. We read about all these things in the news. We read about 
systems that still use vacuum tubes in the air traffic control system 
because it is that old.

The question for this Congress is, can we pass legislation that 
reauthorizes the FAA functions and then provides the funding to 
modernize this system of ours?

We have a lot of people who visit this Capital city, and most of them 
fly in by airplane. This country moves back and forth quickly from 
coast to coast using, in most cases, commercial air transportation. 
They don't think very much of it, frankly. You can fly from one coast 
to the other in 5 or 6 hours. It is not unusual to leave one part of 
this country and end up in another part before lunch. It is a wonderful 
thing to have this system of commercial air travel. The fact is, this 
system will not survive for a number of reasons under the current 
circumstances.

As I indicated the other day, I believe there are four airlines that 
have declared bankruptcy in recent weeks. We also understand, in 
addition, what high fuel costs are doing to the airlines, and we are 
talking now about the airlines in this legislation before us. But I 
could talk about the trucking industry, or I could talk about families 
and farmers. I can talk about what the high fuel prices are doing to 
all of this country. There is no heavier user of fuel than an airline.

What is happening is the fuel prices are undermining the opportunity 
for many of these airlines both to continue operating, in some cases, 
and, in other cases, to continue operating serving smaller areas or 
less populated areas of the country. So fuel prices are a serious 
problem.

The other issue is the modernization of the air traffic control 
system, the system by which we provide for the safety of the American 
people. There is going to be a catastrophe one of these days, and then 
everybody is going to stand around thumbing their suspenders, 
scratching their heads, and saying: Why didn't we do something about 
it?

We have a bill on the floor of the Senate right now to try to address 
this situation, to try to modernize this system, and we have been at 
parade rest since Monday because we are not allowed to move forward. 
Everything is blocked. Everything is plugged up. This is unbelievable.

This is important. Some people around here treat the serious things 
far too lightly and then treat the light things too seriously and never 
understand the difference. Why is it on a Thursday that legislation as 
important as this, that should have been passed in previous years, 
cannot even get amendments up and cannot get votes off because we have 
people who have decided they are just going to block everything?

I told a group in North Dakota a while back about Mark Twain. Mark 
Twain once was asked if he would engage in a debate. He said: Oh, sure, 
as long as I can take the negative side.

We haven't even told you the subject of the debate.

He said: It doesn't matter, the negative side is going to require no 
preparation.

The negative side never requires preparation. Those who are out here 
saying, no, you can't, they want to block it. That requires no 
preparation. What requires preparation is to advance public policy that 
is in the interest of this country. Does anybody really think 
modernizing our air traffic control system is somehow a back-burner 
issue? We see what is happening in the skies in this country. They are 
absolutely clogged. In fact, because of fuel prices and other reasons, 
we have airlines now switching to smaller planes, these little regional 
jets skirting around the sky, hauling as many people but just takes 
more planes to do it. So that puts an unbelievable strain on the air 
traffic system.

The question is, Are we going to modernize it? Are we going to do 
what is necessary? Are we going to provide the funding? Are we going to 
finally get off this delaying nonsense that is going on and allow 
legislation to move forward that is essential for the safety of the air 
traveling public?

I hope the answer at some point soon is yes. This includes items such 
as the Airport Improvement Program, what is called the AIP, investing 
in infrastructure in this country. That is very important. Land at some 
of these airports and take a look at the infrastructure and ask 
yourself whether we need this investment.


It is interesting, if you travel around the world. If you go to 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, and then get in a car and drive to Juticalpa. 
Take a look at the roads and ask yourself whether infrastructure 
matters. Land in some of the airports in some of these remote areas and 
take a look at what you are landing on and the infrastructure needs of 
that airport. Then ask yourself whether infrastructure is important.

We have always prided ourselves in this country on the investment in 
infrastructure. When you come to America, you see infrastructure that 
is maintained. We have always prided ourselves on that until recently, 
and now somehow infrastructure doesn't matter. It takes a back seat.

In my little subcommittee on appropriations that I chair, the 
President says: Let's cut water funding by $1 billion from last year's 
levels for the Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation. These 
agencies fund much of the nation's water projects and were cut by $1 
billion, even as we have 950 water projects in this country which we 
are paying for in Iraq. Think of that. Let's cut water projects in this 
country and investment in the future of this country by $1 billion, the 
President says. However, let's have 950 water projects that the 
American taxpayers will pay for in Iraq.

I think it is time to start taking care of a few things at home. One 
of them is the legislation on the floor of the Senate right now, and 
that is the FAA Reauthorization Act and the investment and the 
modernization of the air traffic control system. If we do not pay 
attention to that, we are going to run into very serious problems. I 
might also say, tragic problems because there is going to be some sort 
of spectacular tragedy, and then we are all going to sit around and say 
that somebody should have done something.

We are trying to do something. The fact is, we cannot even get a vote 
on an amendment on the floor of the Senate. It is unbelievable. As I 
said in the Mark Twain example, the easiest thing in the world is to 
oppose. It takes no talent, it takes no time to prepare, just oppose, 
oppose everything.

My hope is in the next couple of hours, perhaps there will be some 
here who wish to move ahead. I know Senator Reid has been on the floor 
offering unanimous consent requests. He has talked with the minority to 
see if there are conditions under which we might be able to move 
forward and get something done on some legislation. I understand it 
takes a while to get things done. I understand we should be 
deliberative. I understand there should be enough research so we don't 
have unintended consequences to what we do. Nobody has ever accused 
this body of speeding, ever, But this is ridiculous. This makes a 
glacier look fast.

My hope is that those of us who are elected to come here, who try to 
make some improvements in this country, who do what is necessary for 
the health and safety of the people of this country will soon 
understand that the FAA reauthorization bill is not just some other 
piece of legislation, that it is an optional piece of legislation. The 
modernization of the air traffic control system is not some option that 
we ought to consider like any other bill. This is urgent and necessary 
and timely, and we ought to do it now.


















 Energy
