# TURNING POINT IN WAR ON TERRORISM
## `9d9f177b04d483c0a8fe878a9e53bcad`
`Mr. HUNTER â€” 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank the gentleman from Florida for his service in the 
Army as well as his service now to the Nation in Congress. He's really 
living up to those Army ideals. You know, now that this security 
situation in Iraq is under control and U.S. forces are beginning to 
rotate out of that region, we're confronted with a new challenge of 
equal significance in Afghanistan.

By all accounts, the combat mission in Afghanistan has reached an 
important crossroad. In March, President Obama unveiled a new approach 
to achieve this victory in Afghanistan, reminding all Americans of the 
necessity to disrupt, and I quote from President Obama, disrupt, 
dismantle and defeat al Qaeda, in Pakistan and Afghanistan and to 
prevent their return to either country.

Leading the mission in Afghanistan is General Stanley McChrystal who 
was appointed by the President and Secretary Gates to evaluate the 
situation on the ground and provide a resource request detailing the 
needs to achieve his victory. The President now has General 
McChrystal's request in hand, which includes adding another 40,000 
combat troops, minimum, to the region.

As the President considers what course to take, the security 
situation in Afghanistan is deteriorating. The insurgency is gaining 
strength, and U.S. soldiers, marines, sailors and airmen, as well as 
our allies, are being increasingly targeted by ambushes and roadside 
bomb attacks. To prevent mission failure and to protect those troops 
already there, the President must act quickly to fulfill General 
McChrystal's request for more combat resources.

Only until recently the collective commitment to this new strategy 
has come into question. Some in Congress have raised opposition to any 
type of troop surge whatsoever, even if it means defeat. They instead 
prefer to maintain or draw down our combat forces, focus on training 
local security, and rely on targeted air strikes and drone strikes. 
While a scaled back strategy might be attractive to some people, it 
would inevitably constrain resources already in short supply in 
Afghanistan, unnecessarily putting our mission and the safety of the 
coalition forces at risk.

General McChrystal has made it clear that a small footprint 
counterinsurgency strategy will not work in Afghanistan. What's more, 
General McChrystal has clearly defined our objectives and the metrics 
for achieving victory against a resurgent Taliban and possibly al 
Qaeda. This entails our ground forces working to stand up Afghanistan's 
security and police forces as we did in Iraq and substantively weaken 
the stronghold of al Qaeda and the Taliban to the point where these 
local forces can effectively take control.

Madam Speaker, this is nothing new. We had almost the exact same 
challenges in Iraq and we were told 2 or 3 years ago we were going to 
lose in Iraq, the surge wouldn't work; there was no way we could win. 
It was a quagmire. We were going to be stuck there, and Iraq was 
another Vietnam. Well, guess what? You can walk up to any soldier, 
marine, sailor or airman who has served over there and don't just say, 
thanks for serving, you can say thanks for victory, because we're now 
rotating home out of Iraq in victory, not defeat because of General 
Petraeus, General Odierno and the almost exact same strategy of surging 
to provide security so that we could stand up the Iraqi forces, stand 
up the Iraqi military and the Iraqi police and the Iraqi Government so 
that we can leave.

Afghanistan is not Iraq, true, but that counterinsurgency strategy 
still stands. It still works. The more troops we send over to 
Afghanistan, the more secure we can make Afghanistan and the quicker we 
can leave Afghanistan victoriously. We truly are at a vital turning 
point in Afghanistan, and the President does have a very difficult 
decision to make. To quote General McChrystal: time matters. We must 
act now to reverse the negative trends and demonstrate progress.

President Obama himself, in March, said that the counterinsurgency 
strategy, also known as COIN, is the way to defeat the Taliban in 
Afghanistan and to defeat al Qaeda. The strategy presented by the 
President and his national security team would require, quote by the 
President, executing and resourcing an integrated civilian, military 
counterinsurgency strategy.

But now, the President, instead of listening to the general he 
appointed who is the resident expert in Afghanistan, who's on the 
ground in Afghanistan, and who the President had not even met with face 
to face until he took his Olympic sightseeing tour to Denmark when he 
finally deigned to meet General McChrystal face to face, he's now 
listening to possibly Vice President Biden. So he's going to listen to 
Vice President Biden's advice on Afghanistan instead of the four-star 
general who he put in charge in Afghanistan.


In mid-April, Chairman Mullen and Secretary of Defense Gates actually 
replaced General McKiernan with General McChrystal because he 
specialized in counterterrorism. Counterterrorism. That's what Vice 
President Biden wants to do. McChrystal, even after being an expert in 
counterterrorism, came back and said, counterterrorism is not going to 
work. It's got to be counterinsurgency. So to have this 
counterterrorism expert come out and say counterterrorism's not going 
to work, we need a COIN strategy, the counterinsurgency strategy, we 
need to get the Afghan people on our side and the only way to do that 
is to secure the area, that's pretty phenomenal.

As we speak right now, Madam Speaker, the Iraqi troop levels are 
going down. Equipment and resources are coming back over here to the 
U.S., and they're also going to Afghanistan. We have won in Iraq, and 
we can win in Afghanistan; and we can bring civility to the Afghan 
Government so that we can leave.

But here's what we have to do. We have to have enough boots on the 
ground to provide security needed to properly train and equip the 
Afghan security forces, both police and army. You'll see many people 
saying that it's impossible in Afghanistan because Afghanistan's a much 
larger land area than Iraq is. That is true.

Afghanistan has more area than Iraq does. But it's got much smaller 
concentrated population centers. There's only two really. There's RC 
South. This is the Helman province. Kandajar's there. That's where the 
marines are at this point in time. Then you have Kabul and RC East. 
That's where the Army focuses on. Pakistan's over there to the east. 
This is that mountainous range where you have drug runners coming 
across, you have people bringing weapons across, you have Taliban, al 
Qaeda and general bad guys coming across with that far arrow. Then you 
have RC South here where those marines are in Kandajar.

Those are the two main population centers. That's what we're focusing 
on. When it comes to IEDs going off, those are improvised explosive 
devices, the roadside bombs, the 155 rounds put underground by the bad 
guys to blow us up.

In Iraq we had a very complex road system. There were towns all over, 
cities all over, bases all over. We had to run resupply routes going 
everywhere. In Afghanistan you don't have that. You have one main road 
that rings the entire country. It's called Ring Road because it's a big 
round road. The only


places we have to stop these IEDs from going off are between those two 
arrows. That's it. These IED casualties that we see coming back, which 
is 85 percent of our casualties in Afghanistan right now, are 
improvised explosive device casualties.

If we stop those, we will stop sustaining major casualties so we can 
move on to this security phase. We have to stop the IEDs and we can do 
it just like we did in Iraq; and it's actually easier to do it in 
Afghanistan. The Department of State needs to work on the Afghan 
government structure. I won't argue with anybody who says that the 
Afghan Government right now is almost completely corrupt. There are 
many charges leveled against President Karzai who says he's corrupt.

And the Afghan government system that we have set up right now over 
there does not represent the thousands of the years of the Afghan 
tribal set-up that they've had that the Afghan people are used to. 
That's going to be a major challenge. Getting the Afghan people to 
trust in their government so that they actually go out and vote and 
they actually tell us where these improvised explosive devices are 
being implanted, that's a counterinsurgency problem.

We need to work on the Afghan Government. We need to make sure that 
it's not corrupt. Right now I am a Congressman from San Diego, 
California. I was voted in by the people of San Diego. In Afghanistan 
you don't have that. In Afghanistan, President Karzai appoints who the 
different representatives are. So that's like President Obama saying, 
You aren't allowed to elect Duncan Hunter. What I'm going to do is I'm 
going to tell you who your Representative's going to be. That's how 
this government's set up in Afghanistan, and it does not properly 
represent the way that the Afghan people want to be governed nor need 
to be governed.

Just as important as our military and security mission in 
Afghanistan, it's just important that we work with Pakistan so that 
Pakistan is not a safe haven to al Qaeda and to the Taliban. I want to 
read a few quotes here. This is President Obama talking about 
Afghanistan. He says, and I believe this, Afghanistan has to be our 
central focus, the central front on our battle against terrorism. 
President Obama said, Troop levels must increase in Afghanistan. And as 
little as 2/1/2/ months ago, he said, For at least a year now, I have 
called for two additional brigades, perhaps three.

The President obviously knows what needs to be done in Afghanistan 
because he's called for it. In his campaign he said, Afghanistan is the 
central fight against terrorism. When he became President he said 
Afghanistan is the central fight against terrorism. And now that it 
looks like it's difficult politically, he's stepping back from that 
assessment and he's saying, Well, we have to wait and see here. We have 
to look at this.

I don't think that shows good leadership. What I would like to see 
the President do is listen to the head general who he appointed, who he 
put in place, and who is the smartest person possibly in the entire 
United States military on Afghanistan and knows how to win this fight.



I would like to yield such time as he may consume now to the 
honorable gentleman from Michigan, Mr. Thad McCotter.