# HARDROCK MINING AND RECLAMATION ACT OF 2007
## `9e25b7c7ce612d5f68726fc460f11e35`
`Mr. RAHALL â€” 1 November 2007`

---


Mr. RAHALL. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, over 135 years after President Ulysses S. Grant signed 
the Mining Law of 1872 into law, I bring before this body legislation 
to drag it into the 21st century. This legislation at long last 
provides badly needed fiscal and environmental reforms of mining for 
valuable minerals in the 11 western States and Alaska.

In bringing this measure before the House, I am pleased to have the 
strong support of our colleague from California (Mr. Costa), who chairs 
the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources of the Natural 
Resources Committee. Jim chairs the subcommittee that I chaired 20 
years ago when I first began this effort to reform the Mining Law of 
1872. I am honored that he has taken up the mantle as well.

The Mining Law of 1872 is the last of the frontier-era legislation to 
remain on the books, with the Homestead Act having long been repealed, 
not to mention laws regarding carrying your six-gun into a saloon or 
allowing a posse to hang horse thieves. The basic goal of this law, 
almost free land and free minerals to help settle the West, has long 
been achieved. While the minerals produced under this law remain in 
demand, mining under an archaic 19th century regime is not compatible 
with modern land use philosophies or social values. This threatens 
mining, and mining jobs, and is one reason this law must be brought 
into the 21st century.

Today, as in the 1800s, the Mining Law allows claims to be staked on 
Federal lands in the West for valuable hardrock minerals such as gold, 
silver, and copper. No royalty is paid to the true owners of these 
lands, the American people, from the production of their minerals. 
Except by dint of an annual appropriations rider, the claims can be 
sold to multinational mining conglomerates for $2.50 or $5 an acre.

Now, some listening to what I just said may think I am making this 
up. Free gold and land for $2.50 an acre? That sounds like a fairy 
tale. My friends, ladies and gentlemen, I am not making it up. This is 
no fairy tale. This is a pirate story, with the public lands profiteers 
robbing the American public blind.

Mr. Chairman, billions of dollars' worth of gold, silver, and copper 
have been produced from American soil without a royalty paid to the 
true owners of the land, the American people. Those that will recall 
history will know that the largest bank heists in the world have been 
the $900 million stolen from the Central Bank of Iraq in 2003; the $72 
million stolen from Knightsbridge Security Deposit in England in 1987; 
and the $65 million stolen from the Banco Central in Brazil in 2005. 
But, my colleagues, those figures are chump change, chump change 
compared to the estimated $300 billion in valuable minerals given away 
for free from America's public lands under the Mining Law of 1872. 
Incredible. Simply incredible. But, it gets worse.

Being a 19th-century law, it contains no mining and reclamation 
standards. The result is a legacy of toxic streams, scarred landscapes, 
and health and safety threats to our citizens from abandoned mined 
lands. The mayor of Boise, Idaho, and let me restate that State, Idaho, 
wrote a letter to me recently to state that the city is powerless to 
protect the integrity of its source of drinking water, which is 
threatened by a cyanide heap-leach gold mining facility proposed by a 
Canadian, and I repeat that, a Canadian-based company.

This last September, a 13-year-old girl tragically plunged to her 
death in an Arizona mine shaft. In reference to an area pocketed with 
abandoned mine sites, an Arizona mine inspector was quoted as saying: 
''It's just a death trap out there.''

The Mining Law of 1872 is the Jurassic Park of all Federal laws. It 
requires an extreme makeover. Environmental safeguards must be 
supersized. Federal lands must stop being given away for fast-food 
hamburger prices. The robbery of America's gold and silver must stop.

Mr. Chairman, the bill I am bringing before the House today would 
make commonsense reforms by imposing a royalty on the production of 
these hardrock minerals. Bear in mine that coal, oil, and gas produced 
from Federal lands have long paid these royalties. The legislation 
would also put a permanent end to what is known as patenting, the sale 
of mining claims for the price of a snack at Taco Bell.

Further, it would provide for statutory mining and reclamation 
standards that are performance-based rather than prescriptive. As well, 
this would establish a special fund to reclaim abandoned hardrock 
mines, address the health and human safety they propose, and provide 
for community impact assistance.

This is a historic debate, a debate that is long overdue. Those who 
support this legislation, the countless locally elected public 
officials across the West, concerned citizens across the West, 
sportsmen and -women across the West, taxpayer advocates across 
America, bring with them the new-century conviction that corporate 
interests can no longer have an unfettered ability to reap America's 
mineral wealth with no payment in return. There must be parameters set 
and rules to which industry must comply.

I am here to suggest that if we continue under the current regime, 
that if we do not make corrections, the ability of the mining industry 
to continue to operate on public domain lands in the future is 
questionable. The other side will bring up jobs, they will bring up the 
health of the industry that might be decimated by this legislation. I 
say we are here to protect mining jobs and to protect the health of the 
industry and to provide some certainty in the making of financial 
decisions by the mining industry.

While the Mining Law of 1872 over the years has helped develop the 
West and cause needed minerals to be extracted from the Earth, we have 
long passed the time when this 19th-century law can be depended upon to 
serve the country's 21st-century mineral needs, and do so in a manner 
accepted by society. Reform of the Mining Law of 1872, I tell my 
colleagues, is a matter of the public interest, the interest of the 
American taxpayer, the interest of all Americans who are true owners of 
these public lands. The name of every American is on the deed of these 
lands. I urge approval of this legislation.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.