# HONORING TOLEDO MAYOR SHARON BRANSTITER
## `9e509cc29cba2b5b63f832649b6a5963`
`Ms. HOOLEY â€” 26 April 2007`

---


Ms. HOOLEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor Mayor 
Sharon Branstiter of Toledo, Oregon. A dedicated public servant and one 
who committed her entire life to enriching the Toledo community, Mayor 
Branstiter lost her life this past Sunday at her home due to 
complications associated with a double bypass surgery.

Sharon moved to Toledo from Nebraska when she was 7 years old. She 
attended Toledo High School and earned a degree in education from 
Oregon State University. Before serving as Mayor, she earned her 
master's degree and worked as a guidance counselor.

What is most remarkable is the passion Sharon had for serving her 
community. From a young age, she was active in city government and 
served on a multitude of committees and clubs. Her friends and family 
will attest that she never forwent an opportunity to voice her concerns 
or stand up for what she saw as just.

Sharon worked hard to increase the aesthetic landscape of Toledo. As 
her colleagues recall, Sharon always included flowers and trees in city 
projects and spent countless hours gardening and weeding public places. 
The streets of Toledo are lined with beautiful hanging flower baskets 
that Sharon secured with donations from the community. As a memory to 
Sharon, let us always think of her contributions to Toledo when we see 
and enjoy the flower baskets.

I was reminded of the closeness of communities like Toledo when I 
recently attended the funeral for one of our young men who lost his 
life in Iraq. The young Marine grew up in Toledo. At the service, 
Sharon shared her heartfelt memories of this young man and emotionally 
explained that the entire community of Toledo was losing a son. I have 
no doubt that the community is now grieving the loss of a


woman who was not only their mayor, but was their sister, their mother, 
their daughter and their friend.

I join Oregonians from across the state in mourning the passing of 
Mayor Sharon Branstiter.
