# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `9e7c2e728f47e121ffc9111d38098a9b`
`Mr. TERRY â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. TERRY. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to H. Con. Res 63. Our 
troops have made tremendous sacrifices in waging war against Islamic 
extremists who not only want to deny freedom to their fellow countrymen 
but remain committed to attacking America and our way of life.

We have lost some of the bravest, most dedicated and committed 
Americans we have been honored to know, love, and mourn. They deserve 
the highest honor and respect from this Congress and the American 
people for their service. Those brave men and women still in harm's way 
have earned the right to come home as quickly as possible.

This does not mean, however, that we should abandon this mission and 
leave Iraq to certain failure by prematurely pulling out our troops, 
nor should we cut military funding or adopt nonbinding resolutions that 
embolden our enemies and undermine our troop morale.

Now, that last statement has been accused by many speakers on the 
Democrat side as being a red herring to chase the American public away 
from the attention of this addition of 20,000 troops. But I read their 
authored resolution. And the words are that you support and protect 
members of the Armed Services who are serving, are serving or have 
served, which means that they will not support our troops, any 
uniformed member that is newly sent to Iraq, whether it is for training 
the Iraqi troops, whether to be embedded and help them, or any 
capacity. So the next logical step from their own wording of this 
resolution is to cut funding. That is the only way to stop supporting 
any new military member that goes to Iraq.

So we have to ask, how will they do that? Now, I believe the Iraqi 
Government needs our assistance to restore security and prevent a 
descent into anarchy and civil war, or, worse yet, a heightened foreign 
insurgency that results in terrorist control of that nation.

The situation in the Middle East is a powder keg that will explode if 
the United States abandons it. The resolution under debate today offers 
no military or diplomatic solutions apart from expressing disapproval 
over the plan to increase troops that will help train the Iraqis to go 
to the front and take more responsibilities to securing Iraq.

The U.S. military personnel will be working closely with and training 
Iraqi soldiers. Pentagon leaders tell us that embedding these highly 
trained U.S. troops have been highly effective in making the Iraqi 
military better.

In anticipation of the American withdrawal, 23 Sunni clerics in Saudi 
Arabia have already expressed support for sending their Sunni fighters 
to Iraq as have Shiite clerics from other areas of the Middle East in 
anticipation of the U.S. leaving Iraq.



The Jordanian ambassador has described it well, saying that it is 
like the U.S. has stepped on a land mine, only that this is the other 
type of a land mine that will explode when you take your foot off of 
it. We will see an explosion if we do as this Democrat resolution sets 
up and stop supporting our troops and begin withdrawing them.

This Congress must not repeat the mistakes of Vietnam. War should not 
be conducted by 535 self-proclaimed generals. Politicians should not be 
dictating troop levels or planning missions. Our duty is to conduct 
effective and responsible oversight while giving our soldiers and 
military commanders the resources that they need to get the job done. 
This resolution specifically says you will not do that.

Premature withdrawal or a forced gradual withdrawal, which this 
resolution seems to endorse, from Iraq, through cutting funds, may 
appease those who oppose the war, the base of the authors who wrote 
this resolution, but it surely will produce more bloodshed and 
sectarian violence far exceeding the level currently reported by 
newspapers today.

I am not willing to gamble with those lives of future Americans of 
our generations to come. This resolution runs away from the best option 
we have been presented to provide security in Iraq. I am open to 
alternatives, better plans, including those from our colleagues on the 
other side. It is just that we are not able to engage in that 
discussion today.

I will vote ''no'' on this resolution, and hope that the majority of 
my colleagues will join me.