# ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `9ff125c29791be206f49654736574794`
`Mr. BOEHNER â€” 6 December 2007`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. I appreciate my colleague for yielding, and Ohio State 
will be in the national championship on January 7. And we look forward 
to dealing with our colleagues from Louisiana.

Mr. Speaker, my colleagues, there has been a lot said on the floor 
today about the national energy crisis that we face. We know that it 
jeopardizes our national security, we know that it jeopardizes our own 
economy and American jobs here at home, and this is an issue that the 
American people are very concerned about. We have got rising gasoline 
prices. We have got home heating oil prices and gas prices for this 
winter that are really going to hurt the American families' budget. So 
we have a crisis that deserves our response and our collective efforts. 
But what we have here today is a bill that was written in secret, 
written by a handful of people on the majority side in each Chamber 
that we didn't see until last night. Nobody knows what is in this bill 
because nobody has had time to read it.

One thing that is in here that I think is something that certainly 
will be useful is the CAFE agreement that Mr. Dingell and others 
reached that will give us more efficient cars in the future and done in 
a practical way to help domestic manufacturers and the consumers in 
America who are going to have to pay for this.

But we know what is not in it. There is nothing in here that is going 
to lower gasoline prices in America. There is nothing in here that is 
going to help American families deal with the heating costs they are 
going to have this winter. There is nothing here in this bill that is 
going to increase domestic production of energy. And at the end of the 
day, if we are very serious about solving the energy crisis in America, 
we have got to deal with conservation. We have got to deal with 
alternative sources of fuel. We have to deal with increased production 
here in the United States, and my goodness, why won't we talk about 
nuclear energy on the floor of the House of Representatives of the 
United States when we know that it is the cleanest source of fuel for 
our future? But it is not in here.

Now, I did find some other things that were in this bill. Earmarks. 
Oh, yeah, we have to have earmarks. If we are going to move a piece of 
legislation, we have to take care of a few people. So I found $161 
million in here for the Plum Creek Timber Company's Montana land 
holdings for native fish habitat conservation. I didn't know that fish 
lived in trees. We have $2 billion earmark in here from our good friend 
from New York City to help New York develop a rail line from the JFK 
Airport to Lower Manhattan. That's something I am sure my constituents 
want to pay for.

One of the better issues in here, though, is the $3 billion slush 
fund, $3 billion of our money that we are going to give to cities and 
counties around America for green projects, except the definition is so 
wide that they can do almost anything, like some city can decide they 
are going to finance Al Gore's speaking tour to promote his book, ''An 
Inconvenient Truth,'' or maybe Beverly Hills will replace their police 
cars with Lexus hybrids. Certainly it would count if you look at the 
bill. We could be buying some energy-efficient hybrid snowmobiles for 
Aspen or Snowmass or any of those places. All that would be allowed 
under this provision. Or we can even use some of this money to finish 
the rain forest that we are building in Iowa. This is not where the 
American people want their money to go to.

Although this is not an earmark, what I really liked in the bill was 
the $240 tax credit that we are going to provide every 15 months for 
people who regularly ride their bike to work for the purchase, repair 
or storage of their bicycle. Now, amongst us, I know there is one of my 
colleagues that would probably benefit from this. I hope he is going to 
recuse himself when we vote. This is not going to solve America's 
energy problem. I think that we ought to get serious as a country about 
energy independence and saving our future and the future for our kids.

But while we are here dealing with this bill that doesn't frankly do 
much and will not solve our problem, think about what we haven't done. 
You know Christmas is right around the corner for some of you that 
haven't realized it. The majority leader said yesterday that we would 
be out by next Friday. The gentleman from Maryland yesterday, the 
majority leader, said we would be out by December 14. Now, first, I 
wanted to say ''Ha-Ha-Ha,'' but then I began to realize we are close to 
Christmas so I thought, well, ''Ho-Ho-Ho'' might be more appropriate. 
Now there is not a chance that that is going to happen.

We haven't dealt with the AMT problem. We are about to put 23 million 
Americans under the alternative minimum tax that have never been there 
before. We have not done anything to fund our troops or our veterans 
that are about to run out of money. Men and women in the military, in 
Afghanistan and in Iraq, are out there fighting to protect the American 
people. We have not dealt with that funding. We have not dealt with 11 
of the 12 appropriation bills that should have been done by October 
but, you know, we were going to get them done by Thanksgiving, and here 
it is, December 6, my wife's birthday, Ray LaHood's birthday, December 
6, and we still haven't done 11 of the 12 appropriations bills. Yet 
none of this is finished at a time when we ought to be getting serious 
about getting our work done.

So I would ask my colleagues, let's get serious about energy 
independence. Let's get serious about what we need to do as a nation to 
solve the future for our kids and theirs. And until we get serious, I 
think we should vote ''no'' on this bill.

But I would implore my colleagues to also realize that our 
constituents are looking for us, our families are going to be looking 
for us soon, and it is time for us to wrap up our work but get our work 
finished, because the American people expect it.

