# None
## `a01e6f09eefd92e1e922624dd1f42ecd`
`Mrs. BOXER â€” 18 December 2010`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I want to respond to the comments of my 
friend from Texas, who was very passionate in her remarks, by saying it 
interested me that she raised the name of President Ronald Reagan, 
because a lot of major players in his administration support this 
treaty--George Shultz, for one, and also James Baker. In addition, the 
current Director of National Intelligence, who is responsible for 
verification, supports this treaty. And LTG Patrick O'Reilly, head of 
the U.S. Missile Defense Agency, says that the New START treaty 
actually reduces constraints on the development of missile defense.

I think her comments were very articulate, but they are not correct, 
because, again, I will place into the Record the many leaders from 
former Republican administrations who are pressing us hard to get this 
treaty done. As a matter of fact, we haven't had boots on the ground to 
verify what the Russians are doing for a long time now. This treaty 
will make sure we can verify. But whether it is Defense Secretary 
Robert Gates, or Patrick O'Reilly, as I said, head of the U.S. Missile 
Defense Agency, or the Director of National Intelligence--you also have 
former Secretary of Defense James Schlesinger saying he doesn't believe 
this inhibits missile defense. You have the former Secretary of Defense 
under President Clinton, William Perry, being very strong on this, 
along with Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, and so on. In the 
Washington Post, Henry Kissinger, George Shultz, James Baker, Lawrence 
Eagleburger, and Colin Powell made the following statement. ''New START 
preserves our ability to deploy effective missile defenses.'' The 
testimonies of our military commanders and civilian leaders make it 
clear that the treaty does not limit U.S. missile defense plans.

I think the biggest danger to our country is not acting on this. If 
we don't act, it is a danger to the national security of this Nation. I 
am very pleased to see the incredible bipartisan support outside of 
this Chamber and, I hope, inside this Chamber. I am very hopeful. But 
we will find out in the coming days.

I want to also talk about the two very critical votes we cast here 
moments ago, which are so important to large segments of our 
communities. The DREAM Act, which would give a path of legality to 
students who are outstanding in their communities and who want to join 
the military, or go to college, is an important bill. Because of the 
filibuster we needed 60 votes. We got 55 votes--a majority--but the 
Republican filibuster stopped us from passing it.

Today the dreams of young, talented students who grew up in America 
were crushed because of a filibuster. We have to make it clear to the 
people who follow this that the Republicans stopped us from passing the 
DREAM Act, even though we had a few of them join us. I say thank you to 
those on the other side. We got 55 votes. We had 90 percent of 
Democrats voting for it and less than 10 percent of Republicans--90 
percent of Republicans voted against it. Today, dreams were crushed.



I believe in America. My mother was born in a foreign land and, by 
the grace of God, she was naturalized, and she kissed the ground of 
this country. I often think to myself, what if she had a foul-up in her 
papers somehow, what would have happened to me? Would I be a different 
person? No, I would be the same human being. America would be my 
country.

The reason I am so passionate on this is these are young people who 
would make our country stronger. As a matter of fact, our military says 
the DREAM Act is a recruiter's dream, because we get the best and the 
brightest to sign up for the military. In my State, where I am so proud 
of our incredible diversity, we have a group of young people who are 
ready to go to college there, start their own businesses there, get 
jobs there, form their families there, work in their communities. They 
already are.

I have shown on the floor of the Senate many times individuals who 
were caught in this limbo state. A lot of them are presidents of their 
student bodies, A students, leaders in their communities. Studies show 
that if the DREAM Act passes, the gross domestic product of our Nation 
will increase. There is a very good study, a recent study by USC, the 
University of Southern California, that is very clear on the point.

It seems to me what we did today by failing to end the filibuster, 
even though we had a strong majority vote, we hurt our country. Why did 
we hurt our country? Because our children are our future. These are 
very bright young people, who are very motivated. They would be the 
only ones to benefit from the DREAM Act.

I am here today with a message: I will never give up until we pass 
the DREAM Act.

On the good side today, from my perspective, we made some history. We 
did break a filibuster--a Republican filibuster--on the issue of ending 
discrimination in the military against gays and lesbians. We voted to 
end that filibuster and take up the issue of the repeal of don't ask, 
don't tell. I do believe, in a few hours, that policy will be gone.

There are moments in history that come to us, and for me to be here 
at this time--and I know I speak for a lot of colleagues--and cast a 
right for civil rights, cast a vote for justice, cast a vote for 
equality, and to cast a vote against discrimination is a high honor.

I have to say as a point of personal privilege, I was here when that 
policy went into effect. It was 1993 and I was a new Member of the 
Senate. I thought this was the wrong policy at that time. So I said to 
my staff: Can't we do something and stop this? We decided the best way 
to try to stop it was to say let's not codify this policy. Let's not 
put it into law. Let's have an amendment that says it is up to the 
executive branch. That way, the executive branch could repeal it if it 
didn't work, and it would be easier.

It is interesting because our thoughts were right on target, because 
our President does not support don't ask, don't tell, and he would, in 
a heartbeat, of course, remove it as a policy through Executive order. 
But because we had voted it into law, we had to act.

I decided to go back to the speech I made on that day, September 9, 
1993, and take a look at some of the things I said about don't ask, 
don't tell. First, I said, on the question of codification--that is, 
putting don't ask, don't tell into law:




 There is no historic precedent for the codification of the 


 military personnel policy that prevents a whole class of 


 Americans from serving their country in the Armed Forces.


I felt it was against precedent, and I said:




 There is simply no compelling reason to believe we should 


 break with history and codify such a policy.


I mentioned that, over the past four decades, Congress had declined 
to impose restrictive personnel policies on the military. I quoted a 
former Senate Armed Services Committee chairman, Barry Goldwater, who 
stated:




 Banning loyal Americans from the Armed Forces because of 


 their sexual orientation is just plain un-American.


I said the policy is a policy of outright discrimination, which flies 
in the face of the very American values that the military has sworn to 
defend.

I lauded the courage of those military personnel who were willing to 
come forward and testify before Congress way back then. And, of course, 
fast forward to today, it is incredible that brave men and women 
serving in uniform in Iraq and in Afghanistan, who put their careers on 
the line, can stand up and be counted and speak truth to power about 
this issue.

I think this is an important point. The military has a very strict 
code of conduct, which it must have. So everybody in the military must 
adhere to it, whether you are heterosexual, homosexual, or whatever 
your orientation is; you have to live by the code of conduct. In 1993 
we had just come through this horrible scandal called Tailhook. It was 
awful. You had a series of rapes, and you had a very bad circumstance, 
which was brought out into the public. Action was taken. So, clearly, 
heterosexuals in the military, when they misbehave in a sexual way, are 
going to be punished. It is the same way for improper homosexual 
behavior. It will not be tolerated.

That is the point. I said that don't ask, don't tell is a policy of 
discrimination based on your status instead of your behavior.

Here is something else I said in 1993:




 It is easy to lose sight of the impact that policies have 


 on people's lives. It is easy to label people that are 


 different from us as ''those people.'' We might be able to 


 temporarily fool ourselves into thinking that those people 


 are not part of our social fabric.


I read into the Record some writing of a German philosopher, who 
wrote about World War II, in which he said:




 When the Nazis came for the Jews, I didn't speak up because 


 I was not a Jew. And when the Nazis came for the gypsies, I 


 didn't speak up because I was not a gypsy. And when the Nazis 


 came for the mentally defective, I didn't speak up because I 


 was not mentally defective. When the Nazis came for me, there 


 was no one left to speak up.


So I said: Let's not do this to gay and lesbian people. Let's have a 
code of behavior that affects us all and does not divide us. We fool 
ourselves when we say that the gay and lesbian community is not part of 
our social fabric; that they are not human; that they do not have an 
effect on our lives. That isn't right. We are all God's children and 
they are our sons and our daughters.

So in a couple of hours, for me, this issue comes full circle. I got 
33 votes that day in 1993 for my amendment not to codify don't ask, 
don't tell. I got 33 votes, and I was proud of that. I remember Howard 
Metzenbaum--may he rest in peace--said at that time: The Boxer 
amendment is a civil rights amendment, and I was proud. But I was so 
sad to lose badly--33 votes. Today--today--we have come a long way, and 
we have come a long way because people have put their fear aside and 
they came forward and they told their stories. They took the light and 
they focused it on the truth. We have come a long way because of their 
families who love them and have spoken out. We have come a long way 
because the military itself, in the Pentagon's recently released 
survey, said it doesn't matter. Seventy percent of our servicemembers 
said we don't care about sexual orientation.

So this is America at its best--when we open our arms to equality and 
freedom and justice.

In closing, I would say there is more work we have to do on this 
whole issue. There is still a lot of unfairness in our laws--partners 
not being able to have the same rights as married couples. That is 
another whole issue we will work on. But I am confident that as 
Americans we will move forward. When we started out, only White men of 
property could vote. We have struggled. All this is a struggle. It is 
not easy. The struggle for freedom is not easy. People have died for 
freedom in all these communities. It is in our history. But this will 
be a day that will go down in American history as a day we lifted a 
barrier, and America is stronger because of it.

I yield the floor.