# ENERGY
## `a01e532664ba283790561a0e886504f2`
`Mr. BARTON of Texas â€” 14 July 2008`

---


Mr. BARTON of Texas. Let me make a couple of comments about what my 
good friend Mr. Stupak just said.

First, in terms of speculation, I think that most Republicans would 
agree that there is some speculation in the market. I certainly believe 
there is. I held hearings when I was full committee chairman in the 
last Congress and you, Mr. Stupak, have done an excellent job in that 
hearing that he referred to, I think, on June 23.

Some of the things that are in his PUMP bill and some things that are 
in the bill that I have introduced and Chairman Dingell has introduced, 
we are going to have a markup in the Energy and Commerce Committee on a 
bipartisan basis sometime next week and hopefully come to a bipartisan 
agreement about what to do on speculation, putting some position 
limits, bringing the foreign exchanges under rules that the U.S. 
exchanges have to go by, creating a two-tiered system where physical 
traders play by a different set of rules in terms of margin requirement 
than people that don't take physical possession or provide for physical 
delivery. There are a number of issues we have agreement on, and we 
will be working together.

I might also point out that the gentleman's chart that shows the 
tracking of oil and gold, that is a, to me, a disconcerting chart, 
because what it shows to me--and I am not an economist--but we have 
taken oil from a commercial commodity that had value because of the end 
use that it could be put to, to a commodity that now has become a value 
of storage like gold. I mean, there is not a big commercial demand for 
gold in terms of jewelry and dental work.

Gold is basically--has historically been a hedge against inflation, 
and what the world financial community has decided with oil, because of 
the tightness of the market, since it is almost a necessity in the 
modern age, it, too, has now become a store of value, and it has a 
value applied to it above and beyond the commercial value of being 
used.

If we really want to do something to dampen speculation, and, again, 
we are going to work with Mr. Stupak on a speculation bill, we have got 
to fundamentally change the supply and demand tightness. Right now, 
world available supply is about 85 million barrels a day. World demand 
is about 84 million barrels a day. That supply number, that 85 million 
barrel a day number hasn't changed significantly in the last 3 years, 
because most of our major oil fields are growing older, the war in 
Iraq.

I could say corruption in some of the national oil companies, I won't 
name names, but even with these high prices, we haven't seen that 
supply and demand tightness go away. We have got to get either the 
demand down or the supply up, and, so, some of the things that the 
Republicans are talking about to increase domestic supply would help on 
the speculation side.

My final comment, before I yield back to the majority side for some 
time, is that in terms of the oil company profits, apparently the 
gentleman from New York, who is no longer on the floor, has made a big 
deal about how high these profits are.

Well, let me make a couple of comments. If you can't make money at 
$130 a barrel, you don't deserve to be in business. I mean, we would 
expect profits to be up when the price is up where it is. Believe it or 
not, there are some of these nationalized oil companies whose profits 
have not gone up.

Now, one can speculate as to why that is, but in the United States we 
have a transparent market-based system and our oil companies are not 
price setters, they are price takers. If the world market is $130 a 
barrel or $140 a barrel, our national--our private oil companies take 
that price. Now, the question is, how do we want them to use those 
profits?

Let's unlock these reserves, these domestic resources, 85 percent of 
the OCS has been off limits? We can't drill in Alaska where we think 
there is a 10 billion barrel oil field in ANWR? Let's allow our private 
companies to invest those profits in American-made energy.



Increase that supply demand balance so that, as the supply goes up, 
the price goes down.

Now, having said that, I agree with Chairman Stupak in that we need 
to do something on speculation. I don't agree with everything in his 
pump bill, but I do agree with probably 75 percent of it.

In the committee markup of the Energy and Commerce Committee that 
Chairman Dingell has announced to me--and I, hopefully, will publicly 
announce it soon if he has not already--you will see bipartisan 
agreement. We have to live within the market structure of the United 
States and the regulatory structure through the Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission and through the Securities & Exchange Commission. 
Certainly, we can do some things to do something on speculation, but if 
we don't change the fundamental


tightness in the supply and demand situation, all of the speculation 
bills in the world are not going to make that much difference.

With that, I yield back to the gentleman from Pennsylvania.