# HONORING MS. YVETTE CLARKE--NEWLY-ELECTED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE 11TH  CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT OF BROOKLYN, NEW YORK
## `a02641c7dde764838c813eed05ac7eea`
`Mr. RANGEL â€” 29 January 2007`

---


Mr. RANGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Yvette Clarke, 
newly-elected Representative of the 11th Congressional District in 
Brooklyn, New York and to enter into the record an article in the New 
York Carib News by Tony Best entitled ''Brooklyn Celebrates Yvette 
Clarke's Assumption of Duties as Representative for 11th Congressional 
District, Hundreds Attend Community Event at Brooklyn College.''

Yvette Clarke was born and raised in Brooklyn, New York. She is the 
daughter of Leslie Clarke, father, and former Brooklyn councilwoman Una 
Clarke. The Clarkes migrated to the United States before Congresswoman 
Clarke was born. Clarke attended New York City public schools and 
received a scholarship to Oberlin College in Ohio.

Yvette Clarke was elected to the New York City council in November 
2001 as the representative for the 40th District in Brooklyn. Clarke 
was overwhelmingly re-elected to office in November 2003 and November 
2005. She succeeded her pioneering mother, the former city 
councilmember, Dr. Una Clarke, making them the first mother-daughter 
succession in the history of the council.

In November 2006, Clarke was elected to represent the 11th 
Congressional District in Brooklyn, New York. Clarke, a life-long 
Flatbush resident, will continue to ably represent her mostly working-
class constituents in her district the same way she did while sitting 
on the council, particularly as Congress takes up immigration reform 
and long-deferred issues of economic fairness.

Yvette Clarke has the reputation of being a good listener and a true 
leader. She distinguished herself as a strong negotiator and has a 
record of getting things done to meet the needs of the residents of her 
district. I look forward to working closely with Yvette on the issues 
facing the American people and I ask you to join me in welcoming 
Congresswoman Clarke into the 110th Congress of the United States of 
America.











 [From the New York CaribNews]




Brooklyn Celebrates Yvette Clarke's Assumption of Duties as 


Representative for 11th Congressional District; Hundreds Attend 









Community Event at Brooklyn College 















 (By Tony Best)




 After one of New York City's big political flash points: a 


 brutal election campaign to fill a Congressional seat once 


 held by the iconic figure Shirley Chisholm, it was time for a 


 community celebration.



 And the emotional atmosphere that encased the ceremonial 


 swearing in of Congresswoman Yvette Clarke was punctuated 


 with music, dance, prayers, poetry, glowing tributes by 


 prominent elected officials, tears of joy and the obvious 


 satisfaction of the Clarke family that one of their own had 


 made it to the halls of the U.S. House of Representatives.



 ''She got there the old fashioned way, she earned it,'' 


 asserted U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer, a Democrat of New York 


 and one of his party's major architects of the successful 


 mid-term election which resulted in the ousting of the 


 Republicans from control of Capitol Hill.



 ''We are proud of Yvette,'' he told a cheering crowd. ''She 


 worked hard to get elected. She didn't rest on her laurels. 


 It's a great day for Brooklyn, a great day for the Clarke 


 family, and a great day for the United States.''



 Actually, the ceremonial taking of the oath of office 


 followed the official swearing-in which had taken place in 


 Washington a week earlier, and when Brooklyn Civil Court 


 Judge Sylvia Ash asked the freshman member of the House to 


 pledge to carry out her duties in accordance with the 


 country's constitution, members of the audience joined in 


 responding in the affirmative as if they too were going to 


 the nation's capital.



 Clarke won the 11th Congressional District election last 


 September when she defeated three other candidates in the 


 Democratic Primary. Among the competitors was the well-


 financed Jewish City Council member David Yassky who had 


 moved into the District just before launching his campaign 


 with the clear and opportunistic goal of capturing the white 


 votes while leaving the Blacks to split their support from 


 the Hispanic, Asian and Black majority. Yassky had raised 


 almost $2 million for his campaign war chest, more than the 


 combined funds raised by the other three candidates. But it 


 didn't work.



 The seat had become vacant when Major Owens who had 


 occupied it for at least two decades after succeeding 


 Chisholm in the 1980's decided to retire. He had hoped that 


 his son, Chris Owens, a community activist would succeed him. 


 But like Yassky's plans, that goal failed.



 Clarke went on to win the November election with about 90 


 percent of the vote.



 ''She worked hard,'' said U.S. Representative Anthony 


 Weiner, who shocked the political establishment when he 


 endorsed Clarke in the Primary campaign and campaigned 


 with her, instead of backing Yassky. ''She shares the 


 values of the community and understands its needs,'' he 


 told the audience.



 The Congressman was on a list of speakers, mainly members 


 of the state legislature in Albany and the City Council in 


 Manhattan, who joined Marty Markowitz, Brooklyn Borough 


 President and others in extolling the qualities which 


 catapulted Clarke from City Hall to Congress, a feat which 


 eluded her mother, Una Clarke, several years ago when she 


 sought to replace Major Owens in a hard fought race.



 New York State Assemblyman Nick Perry alluded to that 


 election battle when he told




 the crowd that while he had political differences with the 


 Congresswoman's mother it didn't stop him from vigorously 


 backing ''Yvette'' and helping to raise money for her.



 ''I feel like I won too,'' said Perry who dropped out of 


 the Congressional race early last year and then threw his 


 support behind Clarke. ''She will do great things for 


 America. She is young and bright.''



 State Senator John Sampson was another of the elected 


 office holders, who at the urging of both ''Yvette'' and her 


 mother, not only backed her drive for the House but 


 contributed campaign funds and material support. He became 


 philosophical when he invoked the presence and role of the 


 Almighty God in people's lives and reminded the 


 Congressperson that prosperity and success breed many friends 


 but ''adversity proves them.''



 State Senator Kevin Parker, who had declined to back Clarke 


 during the Primary, supporting Karl Andrews, at the time a 


 State Senator from Brooklyn instead, said that he too was 


 confident ''Yvette'' would succeed in Washington. In his 


 brief remarks, the Borough President, who sat out the 


 Congressional race by opting not to endorse any of the four 


 candidates, said the new House member was ''committed to 


 public service.''



 Dr. Kendal Stewart, a City Councilman, joined in the chorus 


 of praise, saying her victory was a reminder to immigrants 


 and their children, ''those who came by plane or by boat'' 


 that they too could succeed and perhaps follow in 


 ''Yvette's'' footsteps.



 Dr. Edison Jackson, President of the highly successful 


 Medgar Evers College, put it differently, describing the 


 lawmaker as a worthy ''advocate'' of the community that sent 


 her to Capitol Hill.



 When the time came for Clarke to respond after wiping away 


 tears, she spoke out against the Iraq war and the Bush 


 Administration's misplaced priorities which had resulted in 


 $130 billion needed to fix schools in the 11th Congressional 


 District and elsewhere in the City, State and country being 


 diverted to the Persian Gulf to finance a conflict ''we don't 


 want.''



 She said that as a member of the House's Committee that 


 monitors the work of the Department of Homeland Security, she 


 had already backed a measure, which would bring more funds 


 into the City for the Police and Fire Departments as well 


 as the Emergency Medical services.



 Congresswoman Clarke insisted that the City urgently needed 


 funds, federal dollars, for its schools, drug treatment 


 programs and other social services. She took time out to 


 thank the community, the hard-working campaign volunteers, 


 staff and others who ''came together'' and worked to place 


 her in Congress.



 ''I am thankful,'' she said.



 She spoke about her parents, Leslie Clarke, father, and Una 


 Clarke, mother, for the way they raised her, and the rest of 


 the family from Jamaica who instilled core values in her.



 With the Rev. Barbara Lucas as ''the officiating minister, 


 the celebration featured a mix of ecumenical blessings 


 offered by a variety of religious ministers, including a 


 Jewish Rabbi; dances by young performers of different 


 cultural backgrounds; inspirational songs by a plethora of 


 artistes, among them was Brooklyn Temple Seventh Day 


 Adventist mass choir; steelband music by members CASYM, a 


 youth orchestra; and a celebratory procession by the 


 Panamanian Marching Band. Dr. Harold Robinson, Trinidad and 


 Tobago' Consul-General, summed up the situation when he said 


 that the Caribbean, the source of Congresswoman Clarke's 


 early strength, might consist of countries with different 


 languages but ''we are all one.''



 Cynthia Brown-Franklin, Panama's Vice Consul-General, said 


 afterwards ''great things are expected of the Congresswoman 


 and she will deliver on those dreams.''
