# INCREASING THE STATUTORY LIMIT ON THE PUBLIC DEBT
## `a0723b1373c5f6819cf5a2c3f74b9c66`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 28 January 2010`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, 2 days ago, Senator Coburn offered a 
series of amendments to the debt ceiling bill requiring $120 billion in 
funding cuts, including $1.3 billion from the State Department. During 
the debate on those cuts, Senator Coburn stated that the ''foreign ops 
appropriations increased by . . . 33 percent last year.''

If that were accurate, I would share the Senator's concern. But when 
the Senator purports to speak for the American people, as he often 
does, he should stick to the facts.

The Senator surely knew that by suggesting the State and Foreign 
Operations budget increased by 33 percent in a single year he was 
distorting the actual increase, and that he was not counting the 
billions in supplemental funding for these programs in fiscal year 
2009, every dollar of which was added to the Federal deficit and will 
have to be paid in future years because the former Republican 
administration wanted to pretend to be spending less.

In its fiscal year 2010 budget, the Obama administration, responding 
to pressure from Congress, stopped the budget gimmickry of funding 
ongoing programs like aid for Iraq, year after year, in off budget 
''emergency'' supplementals. Instead, the President requested funding 
for these programs in its regular fiscal year 2010 budget. If you 
compare the fiscal year 2010 budget request with the fiscal year 2009 
budget request minus the fiscal year 2009 supplemental funding, as the 
Senator from Oklahoma did, you obviously get a distorted result that 
suggests a much bigger increase than actually occurred. It makes a 
great talking point, it sparks cries of outrage, but it is not what 
actually occurred.

The actual increase for State and Foreign Operations from fiscal year 
2009 to fiscal year 2010, if you count regular budget and supplemental 
appropriations, was 9 percent. And the bulk of that increase was for 
global health programs, to combat HIV/AIDS and H1N1, for humanitarian 
crises such as the funds we are using to save lives in Haiti today, and 
for personnel to fill vacancies at embassies and USAID missions around 
the world that have been short staffed--some by as much as 20 percent--
due to transfers of personnel to priority posts such as Iraq and 
Afghanistan. These increases were supported by Republicans and 
Democrats alike.

As I said during the debate on the Coburn amendments, there may be 
programs that are not achieving the results they should and which can 
be eliminated. No one wants to waste money that could be better spent. 
But Senator Gregg, the ranking member, and I spend a good deal of time 
each year making the difficult choices that Senator Coburn declined to 
make when he proposed his 5-percent cut. It is easy to sit on the 
sidelines and accuse others of overspending when you do not take 
responsibility for determining what the actual needs are, and decide 
which programs to fund and which not to fund, whether they are 
requested by the President or by other Senators. If we had funded them 
all, we would have spent two or three times our allocation. We always 
stay within our allocation, which in fiscal year 2010 was close to $900 
million below the President's budget. And we did it with no earmarks.

So let's be honest about the budget. There was nothing close to a 33-
percent increase last year, and it is important to set the record 
straight.