# VETERANS GUARANTEED BONUS ACT OF 2007
## `a08b02ea8f070c4e9ad326c4e3b49bdb`
`Mr. ALTMIRE â€” 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the bill 
we are debating today, H.R. 3793, the Veterans Guaranteed Bonus Act, 
which I introduced.

This legislation will ensure that from this point forward, every 
combat-wounded veteran injured in Afghanistan or Iraq receives their 
full enlistment or reenlistment bonus. No longer will American 
servicemen and women who have served our country so bravely and 
honorably and have been injured in service to our country, no longer 
will they be served with a bill to repay their enlistment bonus, and no 
longer will those heroic men and women suffer the indignity of having 
their prorated bonus payments cut off if those payments are to be made 
in installments.

Instead, my bill, which we are debating today, says that the full 
amounts due under the agreements and contracts that apply to a service 
combat disability be paid within 90 days of the separation of the 
servicemember. This legislation also applies to the family members and 
estates of servicemen and women who are killed in combat.

This issue first came to my attention over the summer while reviewing 
the Dole-Shalala Commission Report, an independent panel put into place 
in the spring to investigate the disgraceful situation at Walter Reed 
Army Medical Center. The Commission uncovered instances of our wounded 
warriors being denied their bonuses after being injured in combat. And 
after studying this issue in more detail and learning of other 
documented instances of this injustice, on October 10, I introduced a 
Veterans Guaranteed Bonus Act, which is now before us.

In the weeks after I introduced the bill, we continued to hear 
multiple reports of cases around the country where servicemen and women 
had been denied bonuses, including the high-profile case involving 
Private Jordan Fox from my home area of western Pennsylvania. It has 
become clear that these were not just isolated examples, but instead, 
some of the hundreds and perhaps thousands of examples of veterans 
being asked to return their bonuses or be denied the remaining portion 
of their bonuses after being injured in service to our country.

And while some have made an issue of the expense of paying back these 
bonuses, let me be clear: There is no group that should stand ahead of 
our Nation's veterans when it comes time to making Federal funding 
decisions. Some may argue that because these servicemen and women were 
injured that they were unable to fulfill their contractual obligations 
and therefore should be denied the remainder of their bonuses. I want 
to be equally clear on this point. Members of our Armed Forces have 
made every conceivable sacrifice for our country, and those who have 
been injured in service to our country have more than fulfilled the 
obligations of their service contract. Paying them the bonuses that 
they have fought for and that they have earned is the very least we can 
do to repay them for their bravery and their sacrifice.

Finally, I want to make clear that this is a bipartisan bill with 
more than 270 cosponsors. I want to thank my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle, dozens of which have cosponsored this bill and some 
of whom will speak in favor of it today. I especially want to thank my 
colleagues, Mr. Stearns from Florida and Mr. Jones from North Carolina, 
the lead Republican sponsors of this bill. They joined me in support of 
this bill before it became a high-profile issue, and I thank them for 
their leadership. I also want to single out two of my Democratic 
colleagues, my lead Democratic cosponsor, Congressman Patrick Murphy 
from my home State of Pennsylvania, an Iraq war veteran himself, and 
Congressman Bart Stupak of Michigan who has fought as hard as any 
Member of this House for the right of veterans to keep their enlistment 
bonus.

Most importantly, I want to thank Chairman Ike Skelton for his 
willingness to help bring this bill to the floor. Chairman Skelton's 
amendment has made this a better bill, and I thank him for his support 
and his continued leadership as chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in voting for the 
Veterans Guaranteed Bonus Act before us today. I am sure that all my 
colleagues in the House would agree that we in Congress must support 
our troops with our actions and not just with our words. This bill will 
ensure that every military veteran gets the bonuses they deserve. 
During this holiday season when our thoughts and prayers are with the 
brave servicemen and women serving overseas and their families here at 
home, I can think of no greater tribute we can provide.