# None
## `a15153c5457a92c8dea5e34d4b5e3deb`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut â€” 23 January 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. I thank Mr. Meek.

There are already reports that the words we may get tonight are going 
to give a little short shrift to the issue of Iraq. If the President 
wants to put forth a plan that is so unpopular that it is not backed by 
his own military leaders, it is not backed by our civilian foreign 
policy expert, it is not backed by the American public, well, then he 
should also have the courage to talk about it, to defend it, to put it 
before us. But knowing that it is unpopular, we may not hear too much 
about it tonight.

To get back to, Mr. Meek, your point on health care, let us be honest 
about


what is going to be proposed tonight, how we are going to save money on 
health care. It is not by investing more in prevention; it is not by 
moving people out of emergency rooms and putting them into real 
programs and care. It is taking people who have good insurance and 
making their good insurance bad insurance. It is going out and taking 
folks who have had the great benefit of working for an employer that 
provides a comprehensive package of benefits, and it is becoming less 
and less likely these days that even good employers out there can 
afford to give a robust package of benefits.

What the President is going to propose today is that for families 
that have had the good fortune to find a good insurance plan, they are 
going to tax that employer. They are going to make it less likely that 
you are going to get good insurance anymore. So we are going to get a 
proposal today which is going to actually result in worse health care 
for a lot of families.

I guess the point here is that, you know, again, if we are going to 
listen to the words that come from this administration, we heard in 
last year's State of the Union that we need to confront the rising cost 
of care, strengthen the doctor/patient relationship and help people 
afford the insurance coverage we need, if we want to talk about that, 
then we need to do something about that. And how we do something about 
that is not by taking the haves and putting them into the column of the 
have-nots. It is by keeping the haves where they are on health care and 
taking the have-nots and giving them that same level of health care.

We can absolutely do that without adding cost to the system, because 
those have-nots, as Mr. Ryan said, end up getting care. They just end 
up getting the most expensive, the most unfortunate type of care, that 
being crisis care. We can do a better job on that.

And, Mr. Meek, as you said, we can make sure that we continue to have 
that discussion on Iraq, which may be missing tonight.