# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `a191e7f6113b0b1b401203cd64b3c948`
`Mr. WEBB â€” 20 May 2009`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I have filed an amendment to this 
supplemental appropriations bill which is designed to put more 
transparency and more measurable control factors into the way we are 
spending these appropriations with respect to the situation in 
Pakistan.

I would begin by saying I have a great deal of concern, as do many 
Members of this body, with respect to the achievability of some of the 
strategic objectives that have been laid out by the new administration. 
We are still looking for clear and measurable end points to the 
strategy itself. At the same time, I believe the new administration 
deserves an opportunity to attempt to bring a greater sense of 
stability into that region. It is a big gamble.

As I mentioned to General Petraeus when he was testifying, and as I 
mentioned to other witnesses before the Armed Services and the Foreign 
Relations Committee, the biggest gamble we face with respect to the 
policies that have been announced in Afghanistan and Pakistan are that 
we are basically allowing ourselves to be measured by unknowns, over 
which we have no real control. In Afghanistan, this is very clear, when 
we put as one of our objectives the creation of an Afghani national 
army. I asked General Petraeus if he could tell me at what point in the 
Afghan history has there ever been a viable national army, and the 
answer is, except for a period of about 30 years when the Afghanis were 
sponsored by the Soviets, there was no viable national army. And even 
there it was not one you would measure in the same context of what we 
are saying we are going to attempt to achieve. So that puts our success 
in the hands of a rather speculative venture but one I hope we can 
achieve in some form.

I would also point out an article in the New York Times today, which 
points out there was a good bit of American weaponry ammunition found 
in the aftermath of battle between the Taliban and American forces, 
which shows there are munitions that were procured by the Pentagon that 
now seem to be in the hands of the troops who are fighting against 
Americans. I would point out that is not unusual for this region. When 
I was Secretary of the Navy more than 20 years ago, one thing we were 
seeing in the Persian Gulf, with the Iranian boghammers attempting to 
attack our vessels, was that some of the rocket-propelled grenades that 
were found in these boghammers actually could be traced back to weapons 
we had given the Afghani anti-Soviet fighters in Afghanistan. It is a 
common occurrence in this region.

The question is, How we can minimize those sorts of occurrences?

With respect to Pakistan, the situation is even more difficult.

We have very few control factors in Pakistan in terms of where our 
money goes when we send it in or what happens to our convoys that go 
through Pakistan on the way to Afghanistan. Eighty percent of the 
logistical supplies that go to Afghanistan go by ground through 
Pakistan. We cannot defend those convoys. We have had many occurrences 
since last summer where they have been interrupted, where they have 
been attacked, trucks have been destroyed, and other vehicles have been 
stolen, et cetera.

In Pakistan there are a number of reputable observers who point out 
that some elements in the Pakistani military, particularly in their 
intelligence services, actually have continued to assist the Taliban. 
Because of--No. 1, the vulnerability of our supply routes; No. 2, the 
instability of the Government itself, obviously which we are attempting 
to assist; and No. 3, the focus of Pakistan in terms of its principal 
national security objectives as being India rather than Afghanistan 
itself--that leads to a situation where we must have a measurable 
source of control and accountability over the money we are going to 
appropriate to assist the situation in Pakistan as it relates to 
international terrorism, the future stability of Pakistan, and 
attempting to defeat al-Qaida.

With all that in mind, I asked a series of questions last week in the 
Armed Services Committee to Admiral Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff. This basically was the line of questioning. First, do 
we have evidence that Pakistan is increasing its nuclear program in 
terms of weapon systems, warheads, et cetera? Admiral Mullen gave me a 
one-word answer--yes. I declined to pursue that answer because I didn't 
believe that was the appropriate place to have a further discussion. 
But I did say, and I believe now, this should cause us enormous concern 
at a time when we are having so much discussion in this country about 
the potential that Iran would obtain nuclear weapons, where Pakistan, 
an unstable regime in a very volatile part of the region, not only 
possesses nuclear weapons but is increasing its nuclear weapons 
program.

I then asked Admiral Mullen: Can you tell me what percentage of the 
$12 billion that has gone to Pakistan since 9/11 has gone toward its 
defense measures related to India or to other areas that are not 
designed to address directly the terrorist threat or the activities of 
the Taliban? The answer was we do not know. No. We cannot measure those 
with any degree of validity because of the opaqueness in the Pakistani 
Government.

I then asked him: Do we have appropriate control factors, in terms of 
where future American money will go? Secretary Gates indicated there 
were improved control factors, but we do not have the control factors 
in Pakistan as now exist even in countries such as Afghanistan, with 
all the difficulties in that country.

With all of that in mind, I drafted a simple amendment. I hope this 
can go into the managers' package. I believe all of us who are going to 
step forward right now and attempt to assist the administration can 
agree that what we should have is a simple statement from the Congress, 
from the appropriators, that none of the funds we are appropriating 
could be used for either of these two purposes--No. 1, to support, 
expand, or in any way assist the development or deployment of the 
nuclear weapons program of the Government of Pakistan; or, No. 2, to 
support programs for which these funds in the appropriations act have 
not been identified.



It is a very simple amendment. It simply says no money will go 
directly or indirectly to assist Pakistan's nuclear weapons program; 
No. 2, no money will be spent in any way other than the way we have 
identified it in this program and that the President must certify this 
and must come back every 90 days and recertify whether any funds have 
been appropriated for those purposes.

I hope the managers of this bill can accept this amendment. If not, I 
will seek a vote on the floor.

I yield the floor.















 Amendment No. 1144
