# HONORING THE SERVICE AND SACRIFICE OF UNITED STATES MARINE CORPORAL  JAVIER ALVAREZ
## `a2404dbc8b5c0fc92b074ea4b15c8c9e`
`Ms. GIFFORDS â€” 11 March 2009`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize former United 
States Marine Corporal Javier Alvarez, who January of this year was 
awarded the Silver Star for his gallantry in Iraq.

As a Squad Leader with the 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit near New 
Ubaydi, Iraq, Corporal Alvarez joined other U.S. and Coalition forces 
attempting to stem the flow of foreign fighters and insurgents in 
Operation STEEL CURTAIN. Corporal Alvarez and his platoon were attacked 
by frontal and flanking fire from four, well-fortified enemy positions.

Braving certain peril, Corporal Alvarez courageously led his squad 
one-hundred meters through withering automatic weapons fire to 
reinforce his Platoon Commander and other Marines. Although wounded, 
Corporal Alvarez continued to lead his Marines in close combat with the 
enemy, while aiding in the evacuation of other Marines. While reloading 
his weapon, an enemy grenade was thrown in the midst of Corporal 
Alvarez and his squad. Selflessly and without regard to his own well 
being, he grabbed the grenade and began to throw it back at the enemy 
when it detonated.

Severely injured by the blast, Corporal Alvarez was evacuated by his 
Platoon Sergeant. His valiant efforts and those of his fellow Marines 
resulted in the deaths of 18 enemy insurgents and undoubtedly saved the 
lives of numerous Marines and Sailors.

His citation reads in part, ''Corporal Alvarez's indomitable spirit, 
dauntless initiative and heroism were an inspiration to those with whom 
he served. By his outstanding display of decisive leadership, unlimited 
courage in the face of heavy enemy fire, and total devotion to duty, 
Corporal Alvarez reflected great credit upon himself and upheld the 
highest traditions of the Marine Corps and the United States Naval 
Service.''

Our Nation owes him a debt of gratitude and remembers his fellow 
Marines, Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen who have paid the ultimate price 
in Iraq and Afghanistan.
