# AMERICAN HOUSING RESCUE AND FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008
## `a29dbda1c7da4036d92f26911ad2babc`
`Mr. BROWN â€” 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, the apologists for the oil industry tell us 
a lot of things in the Chamber. I hear people in the White House, I 
hear elected officials, I hear people who have been particularly 
friendly to the oil industry, campaign contributions, commentators in 
the media, who tell us a lot of things about why the price of gas has 
gone up, triple, basically, since President Bush has taken office; 
triple since the Iraq war began.

The apologists for the oil industry have ascribed no blame to Wall 
Street speculators. They say the oil industry itself is blameless. They 
say it is all about the environment, it is all about something most 
people do not understand.

What they say specifically when they ask a few questions, is: 
Wouldn't increasing offshore drilling lower gas prices? Wouldn't 
drilling in the Arctic Refuge lower gas prices? They say: Why can't we 
build more refineries in the United States? Let's for a moment talk 
about some of those questions they raise.

First, President Bush's own Energy Department has said that increased 
drilling offshore would have, in its words, ''no significant impact on 
gas prices until the year 2030.'' So if we began to drill offshore all 
the places that some of my friends across the aisle say we should 
drill, it would make no appreciable difference in the price of gas 
until 2030, if even then.


Since President Bush has been in office, the Federal Government has 
nearly tripled the number of permits given to big oil companies to 
drill for more oil. They have tripled the number of permits. Yet what 
has happened to gas prices? It has gone from $1.50 to over $4, from $30 
a barrel at the beginning of the Iraq war to $130, $140 a barrel now. 
Big oil companies are not drilling for oil in 75 percent of the land 
the Federal Government has leased to them, both onshore and offshore.

Then they say: Wouldn't drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife 
Refuge lower gas prices? The President's own Energy Department, again a 
President of the United States who came out of the oil industry, a Vice 
President of the United States whose office is across the aisle here, 
who came out of the oil industry, the President's own Energy 
Department, full of oil company executives and allies and friends, said 
a couple of years ago: Drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge 
would only reduce gasoline prices by a penny per gallon, and only 20 
years from now when drilling is at its peak.

Again, it is one of those arguments they make because they do not 
want to blame the oil industry, they do not want to blame the 
speculators on Wall Street who have way more to do with this price jump 
than anything else.

They say: Why can't we build more refineries in the United States? 
Well, big oil companies are reducing refinery capacity not because of 
the Federal Government, they are doing it to increase their profits. An 
internal memo from Chevron in 1995 said: If the United States petroleum 
industry does not reduce its refining capacity, does not cut down its 
refining capacity, it will never see any substantial increase in 
profits.



In other words, it is in the oil companies' interests to not increase 
refining capacity. They have the permits to do it. There are no 
environmental rules stopping them from doing it. They have the permits 
to do it. It is in their interest to keep refining capacity to refine 
less so with supply and demand the price goes up. Don't think they 
haven't thought through that.

The largest five oil refineries in the United States now control over 
half of domestic oil refinery capacity up from one-third only 10 years 
ago. This consolidation makes it easier for them to lessen supply, to 
withhold supplies in order to drive up prices.

If you have looked at oil prices in the last 10 or 20 years, a spike 
in oil prices always comes as a result of some other incident. It comes 
from perhaps a fire at a refinery, an outage of a pipeline, Hurricane 
Katrina, some international incident that causes a disruption in oil 
supply. That is normally over the years when we have seen a spike in 
oil prices, of gasoline prices at the pump when something such as that 
has happened.

None of that has happened in the last couple of years. But it is not 
one spike, it is not two, it is spike after spike after spike, prices 
going again from about $30 a barrel when the President took office, the 
oil company President, to $130, $140 today; $1.30, $1.40 at the gas 
pump, now up to over $5, as we know.

Pointing fingers in the end gets us nowhere, and saying someone is 
right, somebody is wrong. The issue is what are we going to do about 
this. One of the things we should do is to impose a windfall profits 
tax on oil companies to stop them from gouging consumers at the pump. 
The Bush Justice Department ought to begin looking at price-fixing 
issues much more aggressively than they ever have.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission needs to be more involved in 
rooting out the speculators who may very well be doing Enron-type 
speculating to push up the price of oil.

The last time a windfall profits tax was in effect in 1981 to 1988, 
gas prices were reduced by 45 cents a gallon, oil prices declined by 
$20 a barrel, and it generated $89 billion in revenue.

Most importantly, longer term we need to transform our energy system 
away from fossil fuels and toward renewable energy. That is clearly the 
wave of the future. We need to get started sooner rather than later. We 
on this side of the aisle have tried to take money from the Bush energy 
bill, some of the subsidies and tax breaks, and use that money to go 
into alternative energy research and development and do all of the 
things we need to do.

In closing, over the past 7 years, Enron, BP, and Amaranth were 
caught redhanded manipulating the price of electricity, propane, and 
natural gas. Each time they said supply and demand was to blame. Each 
team the pundits were proven wrong. Excessive speculation, 
manipulation, and greed were the cause.

The head of OPEC said: The price has nothing to do with a shortage of 
oil. There is a lot of oil on the market. It is because of speculation. 
Bart Chilton, one of the Commissioners at the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission, said speculation is driving up oil prices as much as 30 
percent. We have work to do. It is clear that rather than defending the 
oil industry and defending Wall Street speculation, it is time this 
Congress took action, that the President finally decided to be on the 
side of the driving public and of businesses that are hurt, truckers 
and others who are hurt so badly by this, as food prices go up, and all 
of the other things that happen from high energy prices. It is time the 
President and the Justice Department and the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission came down on the side of the public interest and began to do 
the right thing.

I yield the floor.