# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `a2edce49c2a3048809c7506396d37208`
`Mr. BYRD â€” 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, 4 years ago, I stood in this very spot and 
warned against an ill-advised invasion of Iraq. Today, the situation in 
Iraq has spiraled out of control, into a bloody, deadly, sectarian 
civil war. Yet the President and his team continue to hold fast to 
their ''stay the course'' nonsense. While they do, thousands of brave 
young Americans place their lives in jeopardy every day. That reality 
is one this Nation and the world did not have to experience. It is a 
tragic reality, brought on by a war of choice and an occupation that 
has yielded neither stability nor reconciliation.

Four years ago today, the President landed on the deck of the USS 
Abraham Lincoln to declare, ''Mission accomplished.'' Four years ago--
it feels like an age. For thousands of our soldiers and their families, 
and likely for the Iraqi people, it feels like a lifetime. How wrong 
our President was then, and how wrong our President continues to be 
today.

Ralph Waldo Emerson said:




 A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds, 


 adored by little statesmen and philosophers and divines.


No matter how many times the President wishes it were so, peace in 
Iraq will not be found at the barrel of an American gun. No matter how 
hard the President hopes that it will happen, sectarian violence will 
not be quelled with U.S. forces occupying the Iraqi nation. Cross your 
fingers, pull out your lucky rabbit's foot, even nail a horseshoe over 
the Oval Office door, but hoping for luck will never change the deadly 
dynamic in Iraq.

Peace demands an Iraqi-led political solution to transcend the ethnic 
and sectarian divisions that are splitting the country apart--a 
political effort which, to date, the Iraqi Government has been unable 
or unwilling to take on. Our legislation could have spurred that 
progress, but President Bush has defiantly said no. This White House 
clings to its ''foolish consistency.''

When he took office as President more than 6 years ago, George W. 
Bush issued a call for renewed responsibility in government. Where are 
the echoes of that call today? What is responsible about clinging to 
this failed course in Iraq and refusing to consider a new path? What is 
responsible about the President continuing to foster and manipulate the 
fears of the American people?

Faced with the tragic consequences of its misjudgments in Iraq, the 
Bush administration is paralyzed, unwilling to acknowledge, much less 
remedy, its catastrophic blunders. President Bush has gone so far as to 
say that the way out of Iraq will be decided by future Presidents.

What an outrageous abdication of responsibility. It is unacceptable 
to pass this buck to future leaders while our brave troops fight and 
die today in the crosshairs of this Iraqi civil war. The time to begin 
rectifying this dreadful blunder is now, not in 2 years, not with the 
next President but now.

With the supplemental bill, Congress responded to the call of the 
American people. We offered a new beginning in reconstruction and 
stability for Iraq. Our proposal could have generated political 
reconciliation and economic security in Iraq. Our bipartisan plan 
shifted the responsibility for the Iraqi nation's long-term success to 
the Iraqi


people themselves. But plainly Congress offered a plan that could have 
meant a brighter future for Iraq, a future controlled by the Iraqi 
people themselves with continued support from the United States. But 
the President has flatly rejected that plan. It is a sad day for our 
Nation and for the world.

Before the war began, I urged the President to think through the 
consequences. There was no doubt as to the military outcome of the war 
between the United States and Iraq. Our military might was certainly 
unquestioned. I was very concerned about the repercussions that would 
follow this certain military victory. Tragically, the repercussions I 
feared all have come to pass. Oh, how I wish, yes, how I wish that I 
had been wrong.

Once again, I urge the President to think through the consequences of 
his choices, the consequences of his rejection of this new plan for 
Iraq, the consequences of clinging to false hopes, for that is what 
this veto does. This veto endorses the falsehoods that took us to war. 
It cements failed policy in place. This veto ensures that hundreds, 
maybe thousands, more will die in Iraq without any true plan for peace. 
It forces our military to continue to pursue a mission impossible, 
creating democracy at the point of a gun.

I am sorry this day has come to pass. I am so sorry the horrors of 
this deadly and mishandled occupation have become the stuff of 
political gamesmanship. There is ample blame to go around for that 
fact.

I have seen clashes between the legislative and executive branches. I 
have seen Presidents make mistakes in the past. Everyone, yes everyone, 
makes mistakes. I certainly have made mistakes, but I have never seen 
such arrogance in a White House that seals its eyes and ears and 
blindly sends so many people to their doom. I pray for our troops, for 
our President--yes, I do--and I pray for our country, yes, for our 
country, and for the people of Iraq.

President Bush has chosen to hold hostage $100 billion for our troops 
to his, President Bush's, policies, his failed policies. But his 
choice, his choice, is not the last word. Congress will get to work on 
a new version of the supplemental appropriations conference report. We, 
with the Lord's will, will not delay, but we also will not stop our 
efforts to stand for what is right and to craft policies that reflect 
the true strength of America: humility, modesty, honesty.

We will continue to press for a strong, intelligent foreign policy 
that does not rely on military might alone. And we will not stop in our 
efforts to bring peace to Iraq and our troops home from war, so help me 
God.

I yield the floor.