# EXPRESSING SYMPATHY FOR THE PEOPLE OF POLAND
## `a30f893d8ada972a7a2b8d3ba8c57cfd`
`Ms. MIKULSKI â€” 14 April 2010`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, I, too, join with my colleagues to rise 
to express my deep and heartfelt condolences to the people of Poland on 
this unbelievable and tragic loss. I thank my colleague Senator Durbin 
for organizing this time, joined by Senator Johanns of Nebraska.

As one who notes the Senate floor today, I see we stand here not as 
Democrats and not as Republicans but as Americans who want to extend 
our heartfelt sympathy to the people of Poland. I thank my colleague 
for organizing this resolution and for all of his efforts in support of 
Poland--from the years of trying to get the truth out about the Katyn 
Forest, to his very able and unstinting efforts to bring Poland into 
NATO and to advance Polish democracy. I thank him.

I rise here today as a granddaughter of a woman who came from Poland 
over 100 years ago, when women did not even have the right to vote. 
When she got off of that boat at Fells Point in Baltimore she was a 16-
year-old girl in search of the American dream. Little did she dream 
that less than 100 years later, her granddaughter would stand on the 
floor of the Senate, advocating for democracy in Poland, righting the 
wrongs of World War II. And little did I realize, with the great honor 
the people of Maryland have given to me, that


I would stand on the floor of the Senate and express sympathy at this 
tragedy of unimaginable magnitude.

Poland has suffered a loss where the wounds might not ever heal. The 
facts are now well known. Poland lost their President, Lech Kaczynski, 
a great leader with a lifetime of service to this country.

The Polish people lost their First Lady, Maria, beloved by the people 
for her good works and her good deeds. More than 90 other dedicated 
Polish patriots perished that terrible Saturday morning--esteemed and 
decorated military officers, the equivalent of our Joint Chiefs; 
experienced diplomats; elected leaders; the head of their central bank, 
and citizens who have put their lives on the line for Poland. All were 
Polish patriots. My heart weeps for the terrible loss and for the 
people of Poland.

We know the terrible story of the Katyn massacre that brought them to 
this site, this unbelievable site for the last 70 years saturated with 
incredible melancholy. In the spring of 1940, the Soviet secret police 
executed over 20,000 Polish prisoners of war--20,000 Polish military 
officers. Then there were other intellectuals from law, from science, 
from medicine. A whole generation of Polish patriots and lenders was 
murdered in that terrible place, people who died for Polish freedom.

Part of Stalin's efforts to destroy the Polish people was to destroy 
its leaders. The Nazis then continued what Stalin had begun. Then the 
world--after a brutal war, the terrible death camps--at Yalta and 
Potsdam the West abandoned Poland, and Poland, against its will, was 
forced behind the Iron Curtain.

What do we know about the Polish people? Their nation never dies 
because their nation does live not only in a government, not only now 
under a rule of law and a constitution that is serving them so well at 
this troubled time, but Poland lives within the hearts of its people. 
No massacre, no Iron Curtain, could ever take it away from them.

During those dark years when Poland continued to be under Soviet 
domination, there were those who worked to tell the story of what 
happened at Katyn. Joining with my colleagues in the Congress, I fought 
for many years to release the information about that horrific massacre, 
even contacting President Gorbachev, as part of his glasnost and 
perestroika, to at least release all the information. Finally, in 1990 
they began to do it. But it was only now, last Wednesday, 1 week ago, 
at the site where the massacre occurred, the Prime Minister of Poland, 
Mr. Tusk, with Mr. Putin, met in that forest where Putin issued a 
formal apology to the Polish people and said all information and 
archives would be open.

We were so filled with joy. It was a time of great reconciliation. 
That is what Saturday was about, it was the continuation of a great and 
grand reconciliation between these nations.

Kaczynski traveled to bring the leadership there. In the leadership 
were people who had been trail blazers. Mr. Kaczynski himself had been 
a member of Solidarity, his wife solidly at his side. And now, as he 
was President of Poland, forging new relationships, mending the wounds 
with the Jewish community, it was a time of Polish leadership reaching 
out to the world in efforts of reconciliation. In this case, Russia 
reached back.

One of the people who died--it was so poignant--was a woman named 
Anna Walentynowicz. She was in many ways the Rosa Parks of Solidarity 
movements. She was a crane operator in the Gdansk shipyard. They fired 
her for trying to form a union and when Anna stood up, so did Lech 
Walesa, and Solidarity was born. When he leapt over that wall he took 
the whole world with him. Down it came, after years of martial law and 
occupation. We had Solidarity and then ultimately a free Poland.

At this time of great tragedy as we honor those who died in the 
forest in 1940, and those who died in the forest on Saturday, we can 
see that hopefully some good would come out of this. It has been a 
triple tragedy--the massacre of 1940, the coverup by the Soviet Union, 
and now the Saturday airplane crash. But out of this we hope would come 
a new sense of cooperation. I acknowledge that the Russian Government 
has been working with the Polish Government to recover the bodies and 
send them home with dignity and honor. Their promises of a complete 
investigation seem to be unfolding and they have invited Polish 
officials to join with them, side by side.

We hope out of this tragedy might further come other acts of great 
reconciliation. That is what we need to think about, how Poland 
continues to move the world to peace and to reconciliation.

I want to acknowledge the people from Poland and what they did for 
the United States. Pulaski helped fight in our Revolution. Kosciuszko 
built West Point, was one of the architects of the American Revolution. 
When he went back home to help Poland be free, he left money with 
Thomas Jefferson to fight for the abolition of slavery.

Through all of the wars, Poland has always been on the side of the 
West. During World War II, those who would escape from Poland led the 
armies in exile. They were at Monte Cassino, they flew in the 
Kosciuszko Squadron with the RAF, they have been at our side in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. Wherever there is a fight to be made for freedom, the 
Poles are there and they need to know, when they make those fights, the 
United States of America is with them.

For those who died on Saturday in that terrible, melancholy forest, 
our hearts go with them. To the people of Poland we express our 
sympathy, but we also express our pride in their stalwart, unrelenting, 
unflinching commitment to peace and justice in their own country and in 
the world.

I yield the floor.