# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `a40700f0b786da4e4d85048c4ece24a5`
`Mr. WYDEN â€” 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, I thank the chairman for his comments and 
would just say I think the Conrad budget goes a long way to restoring 
fiscal sanity in the Federal Government, but also allows for an 
opportunity for the Senate, on a bipartisan basis, to get behind two 
fixes to the critical domestic issues of our time, and those are health 
care and taxes.

I think if you listen to the technical lingo over the course of the 
debate--and the Senator from Missouri, now the Presiding Officer of the 
Senate, comes from the campaign trail, and we are glad to have her 
because she has just been through the debate in her State--the people 
in Missouri or in my State of Oregon do not talk about pay-go and fire 
walls and reserve funds and that kind of technical Washington lingo. 
They do talk an awful lot about what is going to be done to fix health 
care and what is going to be done to fix taxes.

One of the reasons I am so supportive of this Conrad budget is, it 
really does lay the foundation for the Congress to get serious about 
tax reform and serious about health reform. One of the areas Chairman 
Conrad has zeroed in on as it relates to taxes, for example, has been 
this problem of tax havens and tax scams. There is an opportunity as a 
result of this budget to come together in a bipartisan way and fix the 
taxes. If you are serious about closing the tax gap, the hundreds of 
billions of dollars that we can't collect--and Chairman Conrad and 
Chairman Baucus have been working hard to try to approve measures to 
make it easier to collect that money--you have to fix the tax system 
and simplify it.

I have offered a proposal, the fair flat tax, that would allow for 
just that kind of effort. Others here in the Senate have ideas as it 
relates to tax reform. The point is, the Conrad budget makes it 
possible for the Senate to come together on the tax issue and fix this 
code.

Chairman Conrad has talked about the scams. He has talked about the 
tax


havens and about the hundreds of billions of dollars we are losing. I 
have a proposal, the Fair Flat Tax Act, that would deal with it. There 
are other proposals in the Senate that would beef up the collection of 
these billions of dollars that are lost in the tax gap. The Conrad 
budget lays the foundation for tax reform.

I would say to my colleagues, we have had more than 14,000 changes in 
the Tax Code in recent years. It comes out to three changes in the Tax 
Code for every working day, three for every single working day. The tax 
system is broken in this country. We are laying the foundation in this 
proposal for a tax system based on simplicity: a one-page 1040 form and 
progressivity, where we are fair to those who are vulnerable in our 
society, but also reform that is sensitive to the question of holding 
down rates for all so that everyone would have a chance to get ahead.

In addition to taxes, which I think the Conrad budget deals with in a 
responsible fashion, the legislation allows for a bipartisan effort in 
this Congress to fix American health care, with a reserve fund that is 
established and would allow for bipartisan health reform efforts. 
Senator Bennett of Utah and I are offering the first bipartisan effort 
in 13 years to fix American health care. Everybody would be covered, 
which is essential, because if you don't cover everybody, those who are 
uninsured shift their bills to those who are insured. We also fix the 
broken private marketplace.

Right now, we have an awful lot of insurance companies that cherry-
pick, that take just healthy people and send sick people over to 
government programs more fragile than they are. We spend hundreds of 
billions of dollars through the Federal Tax Code disproportionately 
rewarding the most affluent in our country and also promoting 
inefficiency. Senator Bennett and I are very hopeful that this year, 
not in 2009, not after the next Presidential election but this year, 
the Senate will come together on a bipartisan basis. We have the 
Healthy Americans Act, other Senators have other proposals, but the 
Conrad budget lays the foundation for fixing health care in this 
session of Congress.

I also believe as a result of the letter that 10 Senators sent--5 
Democrats and 5 Republicans--to the President, indicating that we want 
to work in a bipartisan way, that if this budget passes, and if the 
White House will join the effort that Senator Bennett and I are 
advocating in the Healthy Americans Act and the 10 Senators have 
outlined in their letter to the President--which very much mirrors what 
Senator Bennett and I are talking about--we can get action on health 
care in 2007.

Finally--and I appreciate the thoughtfulness of the Senator from New 
Mexico in allowing me to speak before him--let me mention that Senator 
Conrad has included in his budget a provision that is critical to the 
survival of timber-dependent communities in my State and around the 
country. His budget includes a reserve fund to provide for extension of 
the Secure Rural Schools Act, also known as the county payments 
program. This law provides funding for schools, roads, and other 
essential services in hundreds of resource-dependent communities around 
the country. This is a survival issue for many in rural America. 
Without county payments, rural communities around this country are 
telling us they are going to vanish from the map. These communities, in 
my view, should not be turned into sacrifice zones.

I am hopeful the extension of the county payments law will be 
addressed during the conference on the emergency supplemental spending 
bill. Earlier this year, 74 Senators voted to include an extension of 
the county payments program, and we were very pleased to have the 
support of Senator Domenici, who has been involved in this discussion 
and also the additional program, the Payment in Lieu of Taxes Program, 
which we have included in this legislation.

We have spoken to the majority leader, Senator Reid, who has assured 
me he will do everything in his power to include county payments when 
the new version of the supplemental spending bill comes out of 
conference. If that doesn't happen, we are going to make this an effort 
on every single vehicle in this Congress. Our bipartisan group is going 
to try to get this support for county payments legislation done as soon 
as possible.

We believe it ought to be done along the lines of what 74 Senators 
have already voted for, and it ought to be done in the supplemental 
spending bill that is going into conference. But if it doesn't happen, 
we are going to try to make it happen on every single vehicle that 
comes before the Senate because of its extraordinary importance to our 
communities.

I thank Chairman Conrad for making the inclusion of a county payments 
reserve fund in the budget so as to provide a backstop so that there 
would be another option to extend county payments quickly, if for some 
reason it doesn't happen in the budget.

In closing, I would urge colleagues to support this budget, 
especially because of the foundation it lays to tackle the two biggest 
domestic issues of our time, health care and taxes. There are certainly 
major issues that come before us, with Iraq obviously being the issue 
of paramount importance as it relates to the international front, but 
the big issues at home are fixing health care and taxes. The Conrad 
budget allows Democrats and Republicans to come together on both of 
those.

This is a budget that responsibly allows the Senate to address the 
critical issues, do so in a responsible way, and I urge the passage of 
this budget.

Madam President, I yield the floor.