# TURNING POINT IN WAR ON TERRORISM
## `a5fe78d66071ad7b36447418926f7ac1`
`Mr. HUNTER â€” 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank the gentleman from Michigan for his words so well 
put. You can see that he understands what is at stake in Afghanistan.

What interests me about Representative McCotter's words, we just want 
the President to do the right thing. And we believe that he knows what 
the right thing is, because it was his idea. He brought up the 
counterinsurgency strategy. He said that Afghanistan


should be the main focus in the war on terror.

He knows what the right decision is because he has already made that 
decision in his mind months ago. He put in General McChrystal because 
he knew that General McChrystal was the right guy at the right time to 
lead us to victory in Afghanistan.

The President knows all of this, and we can only pray that he makes 
the right decision in Afghanistan or America will be a much less safe 
place than it is now.

What happens if we don't win in Afghanistan? What happens if we keep 
the troop levels the same or we incrementally escalate our troop levels 
over there that is not a surge but we add a few thousand troops at a 
time, what's going to happen in Afghanistan?

First, Afghanistan will become once again a petri dish for 
terrorists. Al Qaeda will return to Afghanistan. There's already 
networks there. One is the Hakani network. They're in touch with al 
Qaeda all the time.

Al Qaeda will be back in Afghanistan. We won't be there anymore. The 
Taliban will have control of Afghanistan because they have shadow 
governments set up throughout the entire country.

This is not like in Iraq where there would be a car bomb going off 
for no reason other than to hurt people. A car bomb in Iraq is not an 
alternative form of government.

The Taliban in Afghanistan is an alternative form of government. They 
want to take over this fledgling, possibly corrupt, democracy 
parliamentary system that we have set up in Afghanistan. As bad as it 
is now, this Afghanistan Government that they have set up, the Taliban 
would be much, much worse.

So what if we don't win? Afghanistan will become a breeding ground 
for terrorism. Pakistan, which has nuclear weapons, will be 
destabilized, completely destabilized.

I will tell you right now what is going on in talks in Pakistan and 
with different Taliban people--not because I've heard this from 
anybody; just because I know because this happened in Iraq. The Taliban 
is telling the Afghan people right now: America's going to leave. Look 
how indecisive they are. Their President, even after he said that 
they're going to surge in Afghanistan to have this counterinsurgency 
strategy, they can't make a decision. And the people of Afghanistan are 
listening.


Why would the people in Afghanistan not go with the Taliban forces if 
they think that we're going to leave? Because if we leave, they're 
going to be slaughtered. There will be reprisal attacks against those 
Afghans who dared help America; who dared tell us where the IEDs were 
being planted at; who dared say, These guys over here are bad guys, 
Sergeant. Could you go get them for me?

The people of Afghanistan are going to stop working with us if we 
keep being indecisive on what we're going to do over there, so Pakistan 
could possibly become destabilized.

Out of all of the bad things happening in this world--Mexico 
imploding because of its narcotics trade and its gang war, North Korea 
shooting off nuclear missiles, Iran shooting off nuclear missiles, 
getting that fissile nuclear material there--all of these things could 
happen.

This world is a very dangerous world. We all know that. One of the 
most likely, though, and one of the absolute scariest, is the 
destabilization of Pakistan; it's Pakistan going away and the Taliban 
getting their hands on their nuclear weapons. I don't think we would 
want to think about what would happen if the Taliban or al Qaeda got 
their hands on Pakistan's nuclear weapons. This entire area would be 
destabilized, and I guarantee you they would be gunning for another 9/
11. And it would be that much easier for them because we're not there 
anymore.

And I understand we've been at war in Afghanistan since 9/11. We've 
been over there a long time, over 7 years. And I understand, Mr. 
Speaker, that the American people are tired of war. I was in the Marine 
Corps. I joined after 9/11. I did two tours in Iraq and one in 
Afghanistan in 2007. I was in the Battle of Fallujah in Iraq. I was in 
Diwaniyah. I was in Babylon.

I'm tired of war, too. But what I want to make sure of is that our 
country stays safe, it stays secure, and it stays free, and we don't 
turn our backs on a people who we promised aid to. If we lose in 
Afghanistan, it will embolden al Qaeda, it will embolden all of our 
enemies, and we will see increased attacks.

This is not a scare tactic, Mr. Speaker; this is simple fact. If 
we're not there, if America does not lead, our allies will not lead 
themselves. America is the leader in Afghanistan and our allies are 
following them.

I served with the British, Canadians, Australians, the Poles, Czechs, 
the Italians, Spaniards, French. I served with a whole lot of people, 
other countries that are in Afghanistan, and they're following us. We 
are the leaders for this war.

We are providing that leadership role and we're the economic pillar 
for this war, too. And it is an expensive war. Wars are extremely 
expensive. Afghanistan, with its tribal layout, its mountainous 
regions, its desert, its terrain is more complicated than Iraq is.

This is not easy. We aren't saying that this is easy. We're saying 
this is going to be very, very difficult. But we have the willpower, 
and I think we have the ability. We have the leader in General 
McChrystal. We sure as heck have the men and women who want to serve 
and win in Afghanistan. We can do this.

So, consistent with General McChrystal's recommendation, the initial 
strategy outlined by the President almost 7 months ago constitutes the 
best way towards accomplishing all of these goals. My hope and Mr. 
Rooney's hope, and it should be every America's hope, is that a 
favorable decision is reached promptly so that our military, this 
Congress, and the administration can begin doing everything they can do 
to provide the full resources necessary to execute a counterinsurgency 
strategy.

We have to know here in Congress what the President wants to do. We 
need to know what his decision is so we can get the men and women 
serving over there right now, the ones getting shot at, the ones 
getting IEDs, the ones getting rocketed, we want to get them what they 
need.

One of the things they need is the support of the American people. 
Until President Obama comes out, makes his decision, lets Congress know 
about it so we can inform our constituents and we can tell them why 
it's important that we win in Afghanistan, our men and women overseas 
right now are suffering.

You don't think that the privates, sergeants, corporals, staff 
sergeants at the officer corps in Afghanistan are looking back right 
now, watching C-SPAN watching CNN, and saying, Our main General, 
General McChrystal, the man who we're following, the man who's asked us 
to fight, the man who's asked us to drive these dangerous roads, the 
man who's asked us to kill the enemy for our country and our lives are 
put in danger, he's asking for 40,000 troops, and the administration in 
D.C., in Washington, is not giving them to him right now, they're 
thinking about it.



We've had enough time to think about it. It's been 7 years. Was our 
strategy in Afghanistan under President Bush the right one? No, it 
probably wasn't. It probably was not the right one. We were focused on 
Iraq, and frankly I think that's a good thing, too, because we have won 
over there now. But we need to shift focus to Afghanistan. That's what 
this President said he would do. Experience tells us that wars must be 
run by our military leaders, not politicians or bureaucrats back here 
in D.C. I don't want to create strategy for Afghanistan. That's not my 
job. My job, as a congressman, is to give the military men and women 
the support that they need to get the job done for whatever the 
President, who's Commander in Chief, sets out as their strategy and 
their goals. You don't want me running a war. You don't want Vice 
President Biden running a war, either. That's why General McChrystal is 
there. That's why General Petraeus is there. That's why General Odierno 
is there. They are the resident experts.

The President rightly recognizes the importance of defeating al Qaeda 
and the Taliban, but in order to do so, he must stay clear of political 
currents and do what is right. And once more, I


truly believe that he knows what is right. Because what General 
McChrystal, once more, has brought to the President in his resource 
request was what the President asked him to do.

On two occasions over the last few years, I have been to Afghanistan, 
both as a Member of Congress and as a Marine. While there, I served 
alongside and shared experiences with the best that this country has to 
offer. They are truly the greatest generation. People that have so much 
opportunity, young men and women, they could go to college, they could 
pretty much do whatever they wanted to do. Instead, they went and 
served. I have had the awesome opportunity of serving with them. And 
they have dutifully undertaken their mission to protect our Nation and 
the Afghan people. I have also spoken to many civilian leaders and 
military leaders outside of Afghanistan, and they know what the right 
thing to do is. Our goals in Afghanistan will become further out of 
reach. In fact, they become more out of reach every single day that we 
dally here at home and not give them what they have asked for.

If we significantly reduce our military presence right now, at this 
critical time, the war in Afghanistan will be lost. Understanding this 
risk, I sincerely hope that President Obama, as Commander in Chief, 
will follow the recommendation of his appointed military commander and 
commit his full support to this important mission.
