# None
## `a61c97c62f0775549db279149640c593`
`Mr. SPECTER â€” 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Vermont for 
those comments. I do not think there is a more important issue to come 
before this body. What happens in Iraq, obviously, is of enormous 
importance. But if we lose the basic fundamental rights to require 
evidence before somebody is held in detention, if we lose the right of 
habeas corpus, it is a very sad day in America.

But, in any event, now the Supreme Court of the United States has 
granted certiorari in the Boumediene case. The speculation is that 
Justice Kennedy was the fifth vote, along with Justice Stevens. They do 
not tell you who the


five votes are, but we know there were three votes initially from 
Justice Souter and Justice Breyer and Justice Ginsburg granting it, 
voting to grant certiorari before, and Justice Stevens and Justice 
Kennedy writing a separate opinion, and the other four Justices voting 
to deny certiorari.

So I think this case is headed to the Supreme Court of the United 
States for reversal by the opinion by the Court of Appeals for the 
District of Columbia. But I believe the Congress should act in the 
interim. That is why Senator Leahy and I are pressing this issue on the 
Department of Defense authorization bill. I hope it will not be cited 
as grounds for veto if we are successful in putting this amendment 
through. We cannot offer it yet because there is an amendment pending, 
and the request to set the amendment aside, which requires unanimous 
consent, was objected to. But this is a very important amendment. The 
procedures in Guantanamo under the Combat Status Review Board are 
woefully inadequate, do not satisfy the requirements of the Supreme 
Court of the United States in having a collateral proceeding which is 
adequate to protect the rights of someone who is in detention. So when 
we are permitted to offer the amendment, we will do so. But I ask my 
colleagues to consider the background as to what has happened here, the 
importance of it and its abrogation, what is happening with Guantanamo, 
the disrepute there, and what is happening with the Combat Status 
Review Board so that the Congress can correct what I consider to be an 
error made last year and stand up and not await a decision by the 
Supreme Court of the United States.


I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1

Declaration of Stephen Abraham, Lieutenant Colonel, United States Army 












 Reserve, June 15, 2007




 I, Stephen Abraham, hereby declare as follows:



 1. I am a lieutenant colonel in the United States Army 


 Reserve, having been commissioned in 1981 as an officer in 


 Intelligence Corps. I have served as an intelligence officer 


 from 1982 to the present during periods of both reserve and 


 active duty, including mobilization in 1990 (''Operation 


 Desert Storm'') and twice again following 9-11. In my 


 civilian occupation, I am an attorney with the law firm Fink 


 & Abraham LLP in Newport Beach, California.



 2. This declaration responds to certain statements in the 


 Declaration of Rear Admiral (Retired) James M. McGarrah 


 (''McGarrah Dec.''), filed in Bismullah v. Gates, No. 06-1197 


 (D.C. Cir.). This declaration is limited to unclassified 


 matters specifically related to the procedures employed by 


 Office for the Administrative Review of the Detention of 


 Enemy Combatants (''OARDEC'') and the Combatant Status Review 


 Tribunals (''CSRTs'') rather than to any specific information 


 gathered or used in a particular case, except as noted 


 herein. The contents of this declaration are based solely on 


 my personal observations and experiences as a member of 


 OARDEC. Nothing in this declaration is intended to reflect or 


 represent the official opinions of the Department of Defense 


 or the Department of the Army.



 3. From September 11, 2004 to March 9, 2005, I was on 


 active duty and assigned to OARDEC. Rear Admiral McGarrah 


 served as the Director of OARDEC during the entirety of my 


 assignment.



 4. While assigned to OARDEC, in addition to other duties, I 


 worked as an agency liaison, responsible for coordinating 


 with government agencies, including certain Department of 


 Defense (''DoD'') and non-DoD organizations, to gather or 


 validate information relating to detainees for use in CSRTs. 


 I also served as a member of a CSRT, and had the opportunity 


 to observe and participate in the operation of the CSRT 


 process.



 5. As stated in the McGarrah Dec., the information 


 comprising the Government Information and the Government 


 Evidence was not compiled personally by the CSRT Recorder, 


 but by other individuals in OARDEC. The vast majority of the 


 personnel assigned to OARDEC were reserve officers from the 


 different branches of service (Army, Navy, Air Force, 


 Marines) of varying grades and levels of general military 


 experience. Few had any experience or training in the legal 


 or intelligence fields.



 6. The Recorders of the tribunals were typically relatively 


 junior officers with little training or experience in matters 


 relating to the collection, processing, analyzing, and/or 


 dissemination of intelligence material. In no instances known 


 to me did any of the Recorders have any significant personal 


 experience in the field of military intelligence. Similarly, 


 I was unaware of any Recorder having any significant or 


 relevant experience dealing with the agencies providing 


 information to be used as a part of the CSRT process.



 7. The Recorders exercised little control over the process 


 of accumulating information to be presented to the CSRT board 


 members. Rather, the information was typically aggregated by 


 individuals identified as case writers who, in most 


 instances, had the same limited degree of knowledge and 


 experience relating to the intelligence community and 


 intelligence products. The case writers, and not the 


 Recorders, were primarily responsible for accumulating 


 documents, including assembling documents to be used in the 


 drafting of an unclassified summary of the factual basis for 


 the detainee's designation as an enemy combatant.



 8. The information used to prepare the files to be used by 


 the Recorders frequently consisted of finished intelligence 


 products of a generalized nature--often outdated, often 


 ''generic,'' rarely specifically relating to the individual 


 subjects of the CSRTs or to the circumstances related to 


 those individuals' status.



 9. Beyond ''generic'' information, the case writer would 


 frequently rely upon information contained within the Joint 


 Detainee Information Management System (''JDIMS''). The 


 subset of that system available to the case writers was 


 limited in terms of the scope of information, typically 


 excluding information that was characterized as highly 


 sensitive law enforcement information, highly classified 


 information, or information not voluntarily released by the 


 originating agency. In that regard, JDIMS did not constitute 


 a complete repository, although this limitation was 


 frequently not understood by individuals with access to or 


 who relied upon the system as a source of information. Other 


 databases available to the case writer were similarly 


 deficient. The case writers and Recorders did not have access 


 to numerous information sources generally available within 


 the intelligence community.



 10. As one of only a few intelligence-trained and suitably 


 cleared officers, I served as a liaison while assigned to 


 OARDEC, acting as a go-between for OARDEC and various 


 intelligence organizations. In that capacity, I was tasked to 


 review and/or obtain information relating to individual 


 subjects of the CSRTs. More specifically, I was asked to 


 confirm and represent in a statement to be relied upon by the 


 CSRT board members that the organizations did not possess 


 ''exculpatory information'' relating to the subject of the 