# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `a6398a380014c4d6b79c771d384ffc18`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN â€” 11 June 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. I yield myself as much time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, as we have noted here on the floor, too often the 
relationship between the United States and Pakistan has been 
characterized by mutual frustration engendered by a growing trust gap. 
And while the leaderships of the two countries place a high value on 
our relationship, their publics and their legislatures have viewed each 
other with suspicion and depicted each other as unreliable allies. But 
with the advent of a new administration, both in Pakistan and in the 
United States, we're offered a window of opportunity to redefine, to 
recalibrate relations.

Both sides need to guard against unrealistic expectations but be 
prepared to engage in an honest dialogue; and therein lies the rub, Mr. 
Speaker. As a Pakistani civil society leader and a close confidant of 
the late Benazir Bhutto has said, ''Conditioning aid turns on its head 
the very rationale for assistance to stabilize Pakistan and empower it 
to deal more effectively with security challenges. An approach that 
treats Pakistan from the paradigm of 'hired help' rather than 'valued 
ally' is deeply counterproductive. It only reinforces the transactional 
nature of ties that are so resented by Pakistanis.''

Mr. Speaker, our overarching goal should and, indeed, must be--do no 
harm. Unfortunately, the bill before us could hamper, rather than help, 
vital U.S. security and strategic objectives regarding Pakistan and 
Afghanistan.

With that, I reserve the balance of my time.