# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--
## `a6d193e3d463a3164ab17da623997aad`
`Mr. FEINGOLD â€” 25 May 2010`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Madam President, I rise to offer an amendment on behalf 
of myself, Senator Boxer, Senator Durbin, and Senator Merkley, that 
would require the President to provide a flexible timetable for the 
responsible drawdown of U.S. troops from Afghanistan. The amendment is 
based on legislation I have introduced in the Senate, as I mentioned, 
with Senator Boxer, and also that Representative McGovern and 
Representative Jones have introduced in the House.

Our amendment would require the President to be clear about his 
timeframe in Afghanistan. The President has already indicated that his 
surge strategy in Afghanistan is time limited and he will begin 
redeploying troops in July 2011. All we are asking is that the 
President provide further details about how long he intends to leave 
our troops in Afghanistan, and about what variables could lead him to 
change his mind about this timetable.

Before I go on, I want to explain what my amendment does not do. It 
does not set a specific date for the withdrawal of U.S. troops. It does 
not require the President to actually redeploy troops. And it does not 
place any restrictions on funding.

Rather, it simply requires the President to provide a timeline for 
the redeployment of U.S. troops. That timeline is not binding. In fact, 
the amendment directs the President to identify, as I said, what 
variables, if any, would warrant the alteration of that timeline. 
Secretary Clinton has already testified that she anticipates it will 
take 3 to 5 years to transition control to Afghan security forces.

My bill would simply require the President to lay this out clearly 
and specifically, and to spell out what, if any, conditions would 
warrant a longer U.S. military presence. It allows him to provide some 
of this information in a classified annex, if that is appropriate.

Congress needs information about expected troop levels in order to 
properly plan and pay for the war and to avoid future unpaid-for 
supplemental spending bills such as the one we are now considering. 
Frankly, I had hoped the days of budget-busting supplemental war 
spending bills were in the past. We have already spent hundreds of 
billions of dollars on this war and hundreds of billions more on Iraq. 
At a time of massive deficits, economic upheaval, and major domestic 
needs going unfilled, that level of deficit spending is simply 
unsustainable.

In fairness, unlike his predecessor, President Obama has attempted to 
provide realistic budget estimates for war costs in the current and 
next fiscal years. But beyond fiscal year 2011, the President's budget 
numbers are unrealistically low. It would likely cost the American 
taxpayer $300 billion to $500 billion to conduct the President's 
strategy over and above the $300 billion we have already spent in 
Afghanistan.

I have serious concerns about this strategy, and I would be more than 
happy to discuss those concerns with my colleagues on the floor. It is 
about time we had a real debate in the Senate about this war. But I 
hope even those who support the administration's surge agree it should 
be paid for. We cannot continue to do what the last administration did 
and add this massive cost to the national credit card.

Al-Qaida's stated goal is to bankrupt the United States of America. 
If we keep running up debt to pay for the war, al-Qaida may well 
achieve its goal. If Congress cannot provide the will to pay for this 
war, then we need to seriously ask ourselves, How much longer can we 
keep fighting it?

By requiring the administration to provide its exit strategy, we can 
also help to provide our men and women in uniform with greater 
certainty about their deployments. After almost a decade of war, our 
servicemembers deserve to know how much longer our military operations 
in Afghanistan are expected to continue and, frankly, so do the 
American people.



We have many priorities and many pressing needs, both domestically 
and abroad. The American people deserve more information about the 
administration's plans in Afghanistan so they can evaluate those plans 
and weigh them against other priorities, including and especially the 
need to target growing al-Qaida affiliates around the world.

Moreover, a timetable will help make clear to our partners in 
Afghanistan that our support is not unconditional and that we will not 
continue to bear the burden of our current military deployment 
indefinitely. That is an important message that the current flawed 
Afghan leadership needs to hear.

While I am disappointed by his decision to expand our military 
involvement in Afghanistan, I commend the President for setting a start 
date for redeployment, namely, July 2011. Our allies have stated that 
it has helped ''focus the minds'' of our partners in Afghanistan and 
around the world. Having a start date is essential, but alone it is 
insufficient. It should be accompanied by an end date too.

The President should convey to the American and Afghan people how 
long he anticipates it will take to complete his military objectives. 
So long as our large-scale military presence remains open-ended, al-
Qaida will have a valuable recruiting tool and our partners in 
Afghanistan will have an incentive to take a back seat, leaving U.S. 
troops and U.S. taxpayers on the hook.

Again, my amendment is not about whether one of us supports the 
President or the troops. All of us support the troops and hope and wish 
the President has success in Afghanistan. But no matter how we feel 
about the President or about his approach in Afghanistan, I hope we can 
agree on the need for an exit strategy, as we approach the 9-year 
anniversary of a war that is showing no signs of winding down.

As I said before, I, for one, have serious doubts about the 
administration's approach. In light of our own domestic needs, rising 
casualty rates in Afghanistan, and the emergence of al-Qaida safe 
havens around the world, an expensive, troop-intensive, nation-building 
campaign just does not add up for me. But my amendment does not dictate 
a particular strategy for Afghanistan. All it does is require the 
President to inform Congress and the American people about how long his 
military strategy is expected to take.

I urge my colleagues to support the amendment.

I yield the floor.