# GEORGIA'S FIRST SQUADRON, 108TH CAVALRY OF THE 48TH INFANTRY BRIGADE  COMBAT TEAM
## `a72bd6389854c3ad8ed06dbd15c124be`
`Mr. GRAVES of Georgia â€” 29 November 2010`

---


Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
distinguished service of seven men from Georgia's First Squadron, 108th 
Cavalry of the 48th Infantry Brigade Combat Team based in northwest 
Georgia.

On September 2, 2010, these men received the Bronze Star and Army 
Commendation Medals with ''V'' Device for their personal valor and 
action in an intense firefight during Operation Brest Thunder. 
Operation Brest Thunder, an operation involving U.S. troops, French 
marines, and the Afghanistan National Army, was designed in order to 
persuade the citizens of Afghanistan that it was safe for them to 
participate in the electoral process in the dangerous insurgency area 
of the Shpee Valley and the Kapisa Province.

It was through their bravery and boldness during this operation that 
the following men have been recognized for their outstanding action. 
The Bronze Star Medal with ''V'' device was awarded to:

Captain Nathaniel C. Stone of Monticello, Georgia; Sergeant First 
Class Kenneth Brooks of Calhoun, Georgia; Staff Sergeant William 
Bookout of Villa Rica, Georgia; Sergeant Roger Mavis of Dallas, 
Georgia; and Specialist Christopher Lowe from Savannah, Georgia.

Receiving the Army Commendation Medal with ''V'' device were Staff 
Sergeant William Moore of Newnan, Georgia, and Specialist Justin Evans 
of Silver Creek, Georgia.

During Operation Brest Thunder, a large number of Taliban had entered 
the Shpee Valley in Afghanistan in order to reinforce insurgents 
already there. At the start of their mission, U.S. forces immediately 
took heavy fire from enemy forces in every direction.

After a fellow captain was mortally wounded, and the assisting 
soldier, Specialist Lowe, wounded and incapacitated, Captain Stone and 
Specialist Evans sprung into action. Captain Stone was dispatched to 
lead the Quick Reaction Force to evacuate Specialist Lowe and the 
fallen soldier from the battlefield back to the combat outpost. 
Meanwhile, Specialist Evans treated Specialist Lowe's wounds while 
staving off enemy fire.

Maneuvering under fire, Captain Stone and Sergeant First Class 
Brooks, the onsite commander, immediately assessed the situation and 
the course of action for evacuation. They soon realized that the only 
way to retrieve the casualties was to immediately employ their men to 
lay down fire at a tree line that had been the source of the heaviest 
assault.

Once their men were in place and able to begin an aggressive attack, 
Captain Stone, along with another soldier, sprinted approximately 50 
meters up high ground towards the house where the casualties were 
located without regard for their own personal safety. Upon reaching 
Specialist Evans and Specialist Lowe, Captain Stone realized Specialist 
Lowe was losing a lot of blood and must be rapidly evacuated out of 
harm's way. Captain Stone sprinted towards one of the vehicles where 
Specialist Lowe was placed, while several rounds of enemy fire shot 
around him, skimming the top of his right boot.

And Captain Stone ran through enemy fire to ensure that Specialist 
Lowe received medical attention and that the body of his fellow soldier 
was retrieved.

This quick thinking and courageous action by Captain Stone and 
Specialist Evans, without regard for their own safety, saved Specialist 
Lowe's life and assured the retrieval of their fellow man. Throughout 
the duration of Operation Brest Thunder, Sergeant First Class Brooks, 
Staff Sergeant Moore, Sergeant Mavis and Sergeant Bookout endured heavy 
enemy fire.

These men led valiantly, calmly, and decisively. Although they were 
under heavy enemy fire, these men and their team pressed on and 
unfortunately sustained two casualties. However, they were able to 
maneuver their forces and hold overwatch positions until the Quick 
Reaction Force could respond to medevac any casualties and help 
neutralize the enemy threat. They simultaneously oversaw the defense of 
their combat outpost from heavy fire upon the return of their mission.

A few of these men have noted Operation Brest Thunder to be one of 
the toughest battles they have fought. But it is because of their 
strength of skill that a Taliban commander and almost two dozen 
insurgents fell, helping the United States and her allies grow 
stronger, protecting her from those who wish to do her harm.

The courageous actions of these men show their commitment to their 
mission, to each other, and to their country.

Madam Speaker, I have taken this opportunity to commend the heroic 
actions of these men. But I would also like to take this opportunity to 
thank them. I would like to thank these men for sacrificing their lives 
and their livelihoods for this country.

I want to thank their families for showing tremendous support, 
strength, and resiliency, and I want to be sure that they and their 
brothers and sisters all across the United States Armed Forces know 
that we at home are always thinking and supportive of them. Americans 
can sleep more peacefully, Americans can live their lives more freely 
knowing that soldiers like these brave men from Georgia's First 
Squadron, 108th Cavalry of the 48th Infantry Brigade Combat Team are 
out there fighting for our freedoms.

God bless them and their families, and may the Lord continue to bless 
this great and glorious cause called America.
