# None
## `a734e569a143d9088975a7210fccee3a`
`Mr. CARDIN â€” 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, when it comes to running the Federal 
Government and its workforce, the Bush administration is driven too 
much by ideology and not enough by common sense. In its quest to 
scuttle a civil service system that has served us well during peace 
time and war, the administration has embarked on an unprecedented 
campaign to privatize what most would agree are ''inherently 
governmental'' functions.

The Office of Management and Budget, OMB, has spearheaded 
privatization, claiming it can save taxpayers money. One example: 
relinquishing tax collection to private contractors. In May 2007, OMB 
claimed that contracting out Internal Revenue Service, IRS, debt 
collection to private contractors resulted in saving $35 million in 
fiscal year 2006. OMB failed to mention that the contractor had missed 
several deadlines imposed under the contract, leaving IRS employees to 
perform the bulk of the work. Another concern about that particular 
contract: our Government is turning over sensitive and private 
financial information entrusted to it by its citizens and placing that 
information in the hands of private debt collectors with grave 
potential for abuse.

An article from the February 3, 2007, New York Times neatly 
summarizes the situation: ''Without a public debate or formal policy 
decision, contractors have become a virtual fourth branch of 
government. On the rise for decades, spending on federal contracts has 
soared during the Bush Administration, to about $400 billion last year 
from $207 billion in 2000, fueled by the war in Iraq, domestic security 
and Hurricane Katrina, but also by a philosophy that encourages 
outsourcing almost everything government does.'' This unofficial branch 
of Government is not subject to the same checks and balances of 
accountability found in the civil service system.

The true cost of the executive branch's decision to privatize is the 
countless number of dedicated and highly trained Federal workers who 
will seek employment elsewhere rather than face the uncertainty of 
working in an environment that is subject to the political whims of an 
administration that pursues ideology over common sense and sound 
business policies. Even worse, such a hostile atmosphere will deter 
highly skilled candidates from ever considering public service, thereby 
depriving the public sector of the best and brightest who would 
otherwise seek careers in public service.

Left unchecked, this notion that the Federal Government is divisible 
and its functions can be auctioned off to the lowest bidder will 
ultimately deprive us of an experienced Federal workforce and the 
institutional memory that are essential for the Government to function 
effectively, especially in a crisis. We don't need each new contractor 
to start from scratch reinventing the wheel when old problems arise.

At a minimum, Federal employees should be allowed to compete with 
private contractors on an equal footing, which is where the Kennedy-
Mikulski amendment comes in.

Currently, the contracting rules as spelled out in OMB Circular A-76 
are overwhelmingly weighed in favor of contractors and against Federal 
employees. This amendment will correct inequities in the public-private 
competitive process at the Department of Defense, DOD, to ensure that 
hardworking civilian defense employees are not unfairly deprived of 
their jobs. It will also provide basic protection from unfair 
competition for other Federal employees at other agencies.

The amendment excludes the costs of health and retirement benefits 
from bids in public-private competitions, so contractors are not 
rewarded for providing bad benefits or even no benefits at all. 
Contractors currently have an incentive to shortchange their employees' 
benefits to gain an unfair advantage in bidding for Government work. 
The amendment would eliminate this incentive.

The amendment prohibits the use of ''privatization quotas.'' It is 
unlawful for OMB to set quotas for the amount of work that agencies 
should outsource away from the Federal workforce, but there is 
substantial evidence that the administration has a de facto quota 
system. The amendment would protect agencies' independent 
decisionmaking by requiring that any decision to conduct a public-
private competition be wholly independent of OMB.

The amendment allows Federal employees the same appeal rights as 
contractors. When Federal employees win a privatization review, 
contractors can have the agency's decision reviewed by independent 
third parties, by appealing to the Government Accountability Office, 
GAO, or the Court of Federal Claims. Federal employees currently have 
no such appeal rights.

The amendment requires DOD to issue long overdue guidance on 
outsourcing Federal jobs. These guidelines were due in January, but DOD 
has failed to act. The amendment requires DOD to issue this guidance.

Finally, the amendment provides a fair opportunity to renew contracts 
won by Federal employees. Currently, DOD requires managers to ''re-
compete'' contracts that are won by Federal employees at the end of 
each contract term, rather than extending the contract. But the same 
managers have discretion to extend contracts for jobs that are awarded 
to private contractors without reopening them to competition. The 
amendment gives managers discretion to extend contracts awarded to 
public employees.

We can and should have a discussion about the proper role of 
Government, and we should try to make the Government as efficient as 
possible. What we shouldn't do is carve it up and outsource its 
essential functions willy-nilly to politically favored contractors. 
There is money at stake but much more too. The Kennedy-Mikulski 
amendment is a proper way to proceed with regard to public-private 
competitions, and I urge my colleagues to support it.