# TRIBUTE TO MARINE CAPTAIN JESSE MELTON, III
## `a7aacbe37407004781995c0c0b26f9f7`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER â€” 17 September 2008`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam Speaker, I rise before you today to honor 
Marine Captain Jesse Melton, III, who died serving his country on 
September 9th, 2008. Captain Jesse Melton, 29, of Randallstown, 
Maryland, died as a result of multiple traumatic injuries sustained 
while conducting combat operations in Afghanistan. Captain Melton was 
assigned to Headquarters Battery, 12th Marines, 3rd Marine Division, 
Kaneohe Bay, Hawaii.

Jesse graduated from Randallstown High School in Baltimore County, 
Maryland, where he played lacrosse and baseball. He then attended 
Messiah College in Grantham, Pennsylvania, where he studied 
communications. After his freshman year, however, Jesse decided to join 
the Marine Corps Reserve and attended Boot Camp in South Carolina, an 
experience his family says changed his life. Upon completion of his 
basic training, Jesse's drill sergeant recommended him for Officer 
Candidate School, training Jesse completed while earning his degree in 
communications from Messiah College.

Jesse was commissioned as a second lieutenant in June of 2000 and 
served two tours in Japan. He was promoted to the rank of captain and 
deployed for a tour in Iraq. In March, Captain Melton was deployed 
again, this time to Afghanistan. He was supporting combat operations in 
the Parwan province at the time of his death.

The Randallstown High and Messiah College alumnus is survived by his 
mother, Mrs. Janice Chance, his younger sister Jenine Melton and 
brother Joshua Melton, and stepfather Charlton Chance, all of Owings 
Mills, Maryland, as well as his stepsisters Christine and Laura Chance, 
and his grandmother Ethel Matthews of Baltimore.

Madam Speaker, I ask that you join with me today in honoring the life 
of a man truly dedicated to serving his country.



