# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `a7edb65e02dc85f083398ae8c31d011e`
`Mr. KING of Iowa â€” 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to offer an amendment 
asking the Chief of the National Guard Bureau to develop a report on 
the effectiveness of certain Guard ''empowerment'' provisions that were 
contained in the FY08 Defense Authorization Act.

Mr. Chairman, since September 11, 2001, the United States has 
increasingly turned to the men and women of the National Guard to 
provide much needed support in our efforts to prosecute a global war 
against radical Islamic jihaddists. Answering their Nation's call to 
arms, Guard units from across the country have faithfully and 
courageously served in harm's way on the front lines of this historic 
struggle.

The men and women of the Iowa National Guard are no different. Just 
last month, constituents from my congressional district in Western Iowa 
welcomed home members of the Iowa Army National Guard who returned from 
deployments in Iraq. As has been the case with many Guard units across 
the country, this is not the first welcome home ceremony that these 
units have enjoyed in the past few years.

And yet, while the Guard is deploying many of its members to distant 
battlefields, it is still expected to meet the many demands of its 
domestic mission. Despite the Nation's need for men and women of the 
Guard to serve on the battlefield, our State Governors must continue to 
have ready access to the Guard to respond to the emergency and disaster 
relief needs of their States.

There is no doubt that the services and capabilities of the Guard are 
in high demand. In many respects, this is due to the fact that both 
active duty commanders and governors know that when they call, the 
Guard will be there. They also know that Guard members can always be 
counted upon to complete their mission in the most efficient and 
professional manner possible.

The many demands placed upon the Guard, however, have begun to wear 
down its capabilities. To address this, Congress included several 
provisions in the FY08 National Defense Authorization Act intended to 
boost the standing of the Guard within the Department of Defense. The 
''empowerment'' provisions included the elevation of the Chief of the 
Guard Bureau from the rank of Lieutenant General to the rank of full 
General. The bill also made the Guard Chief the primary advisor to the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs on Guard matters.

In addition to these important changes, the bill also made the 
National Guard a joint agency, charges the Secretary of Defense with 
writing the Guard's charter, and requires that the Deputy Commander of 
the Northern Command be a member of the Guard.

All of these changes, Mr. Chairman, were aimed at ensuring the 
National Guard would have a clearer voice in policy and budgetary 
discussions within the Department of Defense. To determine the extent 
to which these empowerment provisions have accomplished this goal, my 
amendment asks the Chief of the Guard Bureau to submit a report to the 
Secretary of Defense analyzing the effectiveness of the empowerment 
provisions. My amendment then requires the Secretary of Defense to 
submit the Chief's report to Congress with the Secretary's own comments 
on the matter.

Mr. Chairman, as we continue to wage a global war against radical 
Islamic jihaddists, it is imperative that we give the National Guard 
the resources and pull necessary to ensure it is able to remain an 
integral part of this fight and to ensure it is able to carry out its 
duties with respect to its domestic mission here at home. To do this, 
we must see to it that we are responsive to the needs of the Guard. 
With the passage of the empowerment provisions in last year's Defense 
Authorization bill, we have taken some important first steps toward 
addressing the 21st century needs of the Guard. But only the Guard 
itself will be able to tell us if these changes have hit their mark and 
are having their intended effect.

This amendment will allow Congress to get important, first-hand 
feedback from the Guard on this important issue, and I ask my 
colleagues to join me in supporting its passage.