# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a7f2365fb851292ec0b65186f3de8de3`
`Mr. FATTAH â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. FATTAH. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding me 
time.

My colleague from Pennsylvania is concerned about victory for our 
enemies. Well, the victory for our enemies is made possible by our 
pursuing a failed policy.

We are creating an inevitable situation in which our country 
continues to lose prestige and support around the world. But, much more 
importantly, we are losing the precious lives of our young people; and 
tens of thousands have been injured.

I was over at Walter Reed. I met and visited with some of the wounded 
soldiers. And I will never forget the day I met Cassandra Bryant, 20 
years old, who lost both her legs to an improvised explosive device in 
Iraq. She was in a mechanical unit that was supposedly nowhere near the 
front line, but, nonetheless, for the rest of her life, she will have 
to go without her legs. Her sacrifice on behalf of our country, if in 
the face of a national security threat, would be understandable, and 
she was prepared to even give more. But to sacrifice so much. Our young 
people have done it in a place in a war that we should have never 
fought, we should have never been in.

There was ample information and evidence that Saddam possessed no 
weapons of mass destruction. The international inspectors were forced 
out of the country when, first of all, they found none and they wanted 
to continue their work.

This administration rushed to judgment into a war in which we have 
spent hundreds of billions of dollars and in which over 3,000 young 
people have lost their lives. And in Philadelphia, for Mrs. Zappala and 
for Mrs. Jeff Coat and for other mothers and fathers who have lost 
their sons and daughters in Iraq, this war and this effort in Iraq, 
which some suggest if we would just prosecute it more vigorously would 
somehow overnight become a success, we need to look at the conduct of 
this war on behalf of our Armed Forces.

This administration has failed our troops on the ground on so many 
occasions. On one occasion, there was a shortage of bullets. On others, 
we have seen reports that they were not having access to enough long 
rifles. We know that they have never had, in the 4 years now, enough 
up-armored vehicles to be able to do their patrols. We have failed to 
provide the body armor and Kevlar vests that are necessary and in the 
quantities that are needed.

The embarrassment of the conduct of this war is only equal to the 
stupidity that took us to Iraq in the first place. And what we need to 
do is not just vote in support of this resolution but this Congress 
would do better if we would understand that our young men and women 
don't wear Democrat or Republican dog tags. They are sons and daughters 
of our country. They are precious. Their willingness to sacrifice on 
behalf of our Nation should not be taken for granted.

We should move to redeploy. Forget the question of an additional 
surge. Why would we want to have our young people in a situation where 
the only time the Sunnis and the Shiites stop killing each other is 
when they both are willing to turn their weapons against our young 
people?

We are in the middle of a civil war. Clearly, in the case of a civil 
war, the definition suggests that we are unwelcome visitors. We should 
redeploy.

And if there are needs, and I think there are, for peacekeeping and 
stabilization forces, we should ask some of our friendly Arab countries 
in the region to provide some of their troops. We provide over $1 
billion a year to the Egyptian military, one of the largest in the 
world and the largest in the Arab world. They do joint training with 
our troops and have done so for decades. If there is a need for troops, 
let us get our young people out of the way. And since the President 
said we went there in part to stabilize the region for our friendly 
Arab neighbors, let them step forward now and secure the region.

Our young people have done the hard work. They have done the heavy 
lifting. They have died on the fields of battle in Iraq, and it is time 
for this Congress to act responsibly. Let us rise on this day and speak 
not just in symbol but in substance on behalf of the fighting men and 
women of the American military.