# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `a7f69b7c8b598d4c85a993d5e1877b70`
`Mr. COLE of Oklahoma â€” 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. COLE of Oklahoma. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican 
Leadership standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following 
information for publication in the Congressional Record regarding 
earmarks I received as part of H.R. 2638, The Consolidated Security, 
Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009:

Requesting Member: Congressman Tom Cole.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: ''Amethyst Research Inc.''.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2610 Sam Noble Parkway, Ardmore, OK 
73401.

Description of Request: An earmark of $2,500,000 for advanced 
infrared systems development. Specifically, $1,748,250 is for research, 
development, testing and evaluation; $614,250 is for research equipment 
lease, and $137,500 is for building lease. This project has the support 
of key officials within the Department of Defense and within the U.S. 
suppliers of key defense-related technologies to the U.S. Government. 
This request is consistent with the intended and authorized purpose of 
the ONR, RDTE, N account. While not required to do so, the State of 
Oklahoma and the host community City of Ardmore have committed non-
federal dollars toward this national priority. The return on investment 
to DoD for enhanced research funding is significant. ARI's research is 
projected to reduce by a factor of five the DoD cost for high 
performance IRFPAs. ARI's defect characterization technology alone is 
estimated to result in $5,000,000 of DoD savings over five years and 
$100,000,000 over 10 years. Infrared Materials Laboratories are 
overcoming the technical/financial barriers preventing use of less 
expensive silicon substrates for high performance IRFPAs. All major 
U.S. infrared houses


are cooperating with key aspects of this program. Results will be 
shared defense-wide. This research will: (1) dramatically lower the 
cost of high-performance IR, (2) create a stable, domestic supply of 
wafers for IRFPA array fabrication at all major U.S. infrared houses, 
and (3) put superior technologies into the hands of the U.S. warfighter 
more quickly.

Requesting Member: Congressman Tom Cole.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RDT&E, DW.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Oklahoma State University, 
University Multispectral Laboratories.

Address of Requesting Entity: 500 West South Ave., Ponca City, OK 
74601.

Description of Request: Earmark is for the University Multi-spectral 
Laboratory UML/National Unmanned Aerial Vehicle/Systems (UAS) Test 
Center Facility to be located adjacent to Fort Sill, Oklahoma.

Funds will be executed as indicated below:

1. Runways/Taxiways (70 x 1,000 feet): $400,000.

2. New Hangar and Work Shops: $100,000.

3. Building Improvements: $100,000.

4. Water/electric: $50,000.

5. Tracking Equipment: $150,000.

6. Communications Equipment: $100,000.

7. Site Surveillance and Security: $100,000.

8. JFTE and RF Test Equipment: $100,000.

9. Employee Hires (Year 1): $1,300,000.

Requesting Member: Congressman Tom Cole.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Other Procurement, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Stanley Associates.

Address of Requesting Entity: 111 SW ''C'' Ave., Lawton, OK 73501.

Description of Request: Earmark is for Call For Fire Trainer II/Joint 
Fires and Effects Trainer System. In 2007, the United States Joint 
Forces command rated JFETS the best simulator for training of Joint 
Terminal Attack Controllers (JTACs) among all of the armed services. 
JFETS is a leading edge, immersive, virtual reality training simulation 
at Ft. Sill, Oklahoma. It trains joint observers prior to deployments 
worldwide with particular emphasis on Afghanistan, and Iraq. The Army 
and Marine Corps are the most frequent users of JFETS. Joint special 
operations units and Air Force JTACs are determining how to integrate 
JFETS into their training. This immersive simulation has unsurpassed 
realism by incorporating photorealistic graphics, advanced audio 
capabilities, and multiple stimuli for the joint observer. Perhaps 
JFETS' greatest asset is its ability to train students to make sound 
decisions in a multitasked, combat-like environment. The joint observer 
must be able to prioritize and action numerous battlefield requirements 
simultaneously. The simulation is scalable in that the environment can 
be somewhat forgiving or it can saturate the student. Rather than the 
traditional, sterile observation post in which indirect fires are 
adjusted onto a fixed target, JFETS dynamically presents a complex 
situation which requires engagement of multiple moving targets and 
immediate tactical decision making. Joint observers with combat 
experience in Afghanistan and Iraq have unequivocally commended JFETS' 
realism and versatility. The project is scalable and accordingly funds 
will be expended in the following manner:

1. Salaries & Wages: $1,715,788.

2. Materials & Supplies: $552,010.

3. Travel: $24,163.

4. Subcontracts: $1,993,753.

5. Fees: $214,286.

Requesting Member: Congressman Tom Cole.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Operations & Maintenance, Air Force.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Veracity Technology Solutions.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2701 Liberty Parkway, Suite 311, 
Midwest City, OK 73110.

Description of Request: Earmark is for Advanced Ultrasonic Inspection 
of Aging Aircraft Structures. This project will enable the Air Force to 
deploy advanced ultrasonic inspection techniques that may dramatically 
reduce (by a factor of ten) the time required to inspect aircraft for 
defects. In order to continue operational readiness, the Air Force has 
identified numerous critical depot level NDI inspections that must be 
conducted and monitored for continued operation. These inspections can 
involve the detection of material losses as small as 0.030 inches in 
multi-layer, tapered, metallic structures. Presently, this is a labor 
intensive process requiring some disassembly and visual inspection of 
each metallic surface. The inspection process not only removes the 
aircraft from service for an extended period of time which negatively 
impacts readiness, but also adds significantly to Air Force maintenance 
costs. In addition, the deployment of this ultrasonic inspection 
technology will provide significantly improved identification and 
characterization of defects. This can be accomplished with little risk, 
as the technology is adapted from ultrasonic array technologies and 
medical grade imaging techniques that have been successfully 
implemented in the medical industry for many years. Funds will be 
expended in the following manner:

(1) $500,000 to deploy an integrated wing inspection system whose 
feasibility has been demonstrated through successful Small Business 
Innovation Research (SBIR) Phase I and II projects and;

(2) $750,000 to support additional proof of concept projects working 
in tandem with the KC-135 program office. Specifically, this funding 
will be used for the technical personnel, facilities, and equipment 
required to develop and deploy this technology.

Requesting Member: Congressman Tom Cole.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RDT&E, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Institute for Creative Technologies.

Address of Requesting Entity: 13274 Fiji Way, Marina Del Ray, CA 
90292.

Description of Request: Earmark is for the Joint Fires & Effects 
Trainer System. JFETS at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, a collaborative effort 
between the University of Southern California Institute for Creative 
Technologies and the United States Army Field Artillery School, has 
grown to three fully functional prototype training installations since 
its inception in 2003. Short of combat, JFETS creates a realistic, 
stressful, and demanding experience for soldiers undergoing training in 
the synchronization of fires and effects. To date more than 5,000 
soldiers have been trained in the JFETS Urban Terrain Module, the Open 
Terrain Module, and the Close Air Support Module.

In FY07, the Joint Close Air Support Executive Steering Committee 
recommended that JFETS be certified to replace CAS Type 1 and Type 2 
used for maintaining Joint Terminal Attack Control currency. JFETS is 
scheduled to transition from a university research prototype to a 
deployed training system with both government and commercial support at 
the end of GFY08 as a Program of Record within the United States Army.

Funds will be expended as follows:

1. $1.5 MM for ICT research on IOTA and Terrain pipeline.

2. $0.5 MM for subcontractor.

Requesting Member: Congressman Tom Cole.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RDT&E, Army.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Core Dynamics.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2275 Research Blvd., Rockville, MD 
20850.

Description of Request: Earmark is for Freeze Dried Blood Technology 
Clinical Research. Initial R&D has proved that red blood cells can be 
successfully frozen, effectively producing freeze dried blood. Initial 
Research indicates that they can be reconstituted with sterile water 
and successfully transfused. Clinical research is now required to 
determine if this process can be replicated in large amounts and if the 
resultant, reconstituted blood retains viability once introduced into 
the bloodstream. Research indicated to investigate methods to freeze 
dry blood is outlined in the 2008 RDT&E Budget for applied research PE 
0602787A--Medical Technology.

All funds will be used to complete the small-scale development and 
initiate the Small Volume In Vivo Survival testing beginning the 
process for FDA Submission of the freeze dried RBC product.
