# SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 4--EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON  IRAQ
## `a8a68209710eae28023a3164d8365001`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. I thank my colleagues, the Senator from Nebraska and 
Senator Collins. It is important that we have taken this initiative 
because a number of colleagues--10 now--wish to be recognized. But 
believe me, there are 10 more and 10 more who will soon come forward, 
hopefully, and support this resolution. I also want to stress, as both 
of my colleagues did, I hope as this debate progresses, it will not be 
a question of who is the most patriotic, who is the strongest supporter 
of the American troops. I pride myself with having had a relationship 
with the Armed Forces of the United States, modest though it may be, 
since late 1944-1945. I had the privilege of working and learning. I 
often feel the Armed Forces did far more for me than I have done for 
them. In my years, now 29 years, here in the Senate on the Armed 
Services Committee, I have done everything I could to repay the Armed 
Forces for what they did for this humble person, to provide for them in 
a way that meets the sincerity of their commitments and that of their 
families.

So it is not a question of who is the most patriotic or a question of 
who is trying to be confrontational with the President. These are 
heartfelt, closely held views we have about one of the most serious 
episodes in contemporary American history. I think the President has 
shown a measure of courage in this matter. But as has been 
acknowledged, we have made mistakes. And what we have tried to do is 
conscientiously say how we feel about the immediate future.

I asked for a change in strategy, I guess it was October, when I came 
back and said the situation, as I saw it, in Iraq was going sideways. 
That has been done. This is a change in strategy. I acknowledge that. 
We were invited by the President to make suggestions. We have done that 
in a courteous, respectful manner. I thank my colleagues.

I stress also the need for bipartisanship. I am not certain anyone 
can predict how this debate will go and what the outcome will be or how 
many resolutions come forward. I think it should be a healthy, strong 
debate and one in which the American public, which is


very much attuned to this situation and has strong views of its own--
and we should respect those views--I hope that what debate and actions 
follow, whatever they may be by this Chamber on such final resolutions 
that may be voted on, earn the respect and the trust and the confidence 
not only of the Armed Forces but of the American public. Because we can 
only be successful in this operation to save the Government of Iraq, 
whether it is this one or a successor one, to save the people of Iraq 
so they can exercise sovereignty if there is strong public support and 
a strong and accurate bipartisan level of participation by the Congress 
of the United States. To have a vote all on one side and a vote all on 
the other side will not help this very situation at this time.

So one of the main goals--and we have achieved it--is bipartisanship, 
truly.

I thank my colleagues. I yield the floor. And I wish to, in so 
yielding, thank the distinguished Senator from Colorado for joining us 
in this matter.