# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `a8d0492206c0bb13536a6040fed563fa`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 10 December 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, yesterday, I came before the Senate to pay 
tribute to Pennsylvanians who gave, as Abraham Lincoln said, ''the last 
full measure of devotion'' to their country serving in Operation Iraqi 
Freedom.

Therefore, today, I would like to take this opportunity to honor the 
men and women of Pennsylvania who have served in Operation Enduring 
Freedom in Afghanistan. This struggle began in the weeks following the 
gravest attack on American soil; it was a direct response to eliminate 
the sanctuary of those who plotted the horrific events of 9/11.

The men and women who have served in Afghanistan have faced extreme 
danger but have persevered with a can-do spirit. Our men and women of 
the U.S. Armed Forces are indeed in a class of their own--all their 
own, I should say. And, like their brothers and sisters serving in 
Iraq, they mourn the sacrifices of their own.

So today in the Senate, I would also like to enter into the 
Congressional Record the names of those 25 Pennsylvanian heroes who may 
have fallen in the battles of Afghanistan but who have only risen in 
our appreciation for their service and sacrifice. I list them now:



 CWO Michael Slebodnik of Gibsonia, PA;


 PFC Michael Dinterman of Littlestown, PA;


 LTC Richard Berrettini of Wilcox, PA;


 SPC Jonathan L. Luscher of Scranton, PA;


 SPC Derek Holland of Wind Gap, PA;


 PV2 Matthew Brown of Zelienople, PA;


 1LT Jeffrey Deprimo of Pittston, PA;


 2LT Michael Girdano of Apollo, PA;


 SGT Douglas Bull of Wilkes-Barre, PA;


 SSG Troy Ezernack of Lancaster, PA;


 Po3 John Fralish of New Kingstown, PA;


 CPT Bryan Willard of Hummelstown, PA;


 SGT Jonathan McColley of Gettysburg, PA;


 SGT James Fordyce of Newtown Square, PA;


 SGT Brett Hershey of State College, PA;


 PFC James Dillon, Jr., of Grove City, PA;


 SSG Paul Sweeney of Lakeville, PA;


 SGT Christopher Geiger of Allentown, PA;


 SFC Scott Ball of Mount Holly Springs, PA;


 SGT Jan Argonish of Peckville, PA;


 SSG Patrick Kutschbach of McKees Rocks, PA;


 CPT David Boris of Pottsville, PA;


 MSG Arthur Lilley of Smithfield, PA;


 1SG Christopher Rafferty of Brownsville, PA;


 MSG Thomas Maholic of Bradford, PA.


To the families of these brave Americans, please know your son's or 
daughter's service will always be remembered and appreciated. Every 
time a child is able to go to school in America without fear, that 
service is appreciated. Every time a graduate looks positively toward 
their future, to live in a land of freedom and liberty, those who have 
served are appreciated and their sacrifice is appreciated.

The response of these men and women--whether it was in Afghanistan or 
anywhere in the world that they served--their response to the ultimate 
call to service ensures that each of us may live in freedom.

As Benjamin Disraeli once said:




 The legacy of heroes is the memory of a great name and the 


 inheritance of a great example.


During this holiday season, when thoughts of our families and loved 
ones are on our minds, I wish to express my condolences and gratitude 
to those families who have loved and lost someone dear to them and also 
to express gratitude to those whose loved ones are now serving in a war 
theater far from home. Please know you are in our prayers.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.