# None
## `a8dcd123785accba875f423db304aacf`
`Mr. DOGGETT â€” 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. Today, so very late, represents the first real House 
debate on Afghanistan since President Obama announced that the path to 
peace could only be found through wider war. I have continually 
challenged that policy. But because our security, I believe, will not 
be found in either the false choice of ''more troops in'' or ''all out 
now,'' I cannot support the resolution, as I do not support our current 
strategy in Afghanistan.

This December escalation announcement by the President was 
counterproductive and somewhat misleading. He tried to have it both 
ways. He pledged to begin withdrawing troops in July 2011, but his plan 
continues sending troops through near the end of this year. Defense 
Secretary Gates was more candid. He says that any withdrawal next year 
will be a ''handful,'' that there is no real Afghanistan exit strategy, 
and that a large military presence is planned there for ''a very long 
time.''

With our unceasing commitment to American blood and treasure being 
poured into Afghanistan, there is no meaningful pressure on President 
Karzai and his drug dealer and warlord cohorts. They have been much 
less interested in undertaking the steps necessary to secure peace than 
in clinging to power and wealth, such as by stealing one-third of the 
votes in the last election. I believe that the calls for reform have 
been greeted since that time by Mr. Karzai only by taking over the 
independent election commission that questioned that election and by 
the appointment of multiple drug warlord types to the cabinet who are 
part of the problem. In Afghanistan, reform is a slogan, it is not a 
reality.