# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `a8f7caa41f69911f8512a0d06f72267a`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, I thank my friend from Alabama. And at 
the outset, before I make a comment about the matter that is pending 
before the Senate today, I want to also commend him for his work on 
energy independence. I think it demonstrates how we are able in this 
body to bring together Republicans and conservatives, Democrats and 
progressives, on what is one of the signature issues of our time. I 
very much look forward to working with him, as well as with my other 
colleagues on this very important agenda in this 110th Congress.

Madam President, I rise today to speak on behalf of the Reid 
substitute amendment that is a very important matter that is now before 
this body. I applaud the leadership of the floor managers, Senator 
Kennedy and Senator Enzi. I very much look forward to a successful 
conclusion of this legislation.

The Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 would raise the Federal minimum 
wage from $5.15 an hour to $7.25 an hour over a period of 2 years. I am 
proud to be a supporter and a cosponsor of this measure which will help 
lift millions of Americans into a better way of life.

The Federal minimum wage was first established through the Fair Labor 
Standards Act of 1938. At that time, the Federal Government set the 
Federal minimum wage at 25 cents an hour, which would amount to $3.22 
an hour in today's dollars. Since then, Congress has used its wisdom 
and increased the minimum wage eight times under both Democratic and 
Republican administrations.

Unfortunately, American workers have now had to wait 10 years since 
the last increase--the longest that workers have gone without an 
increase in the entire history our Nation has had a minimum wage law.

American workers, in my view, have waited long enough for their 
raise. The minimum wage is not just about fairness. It is also about 
economic necessity. While Congress has neglected to raise the minimum 
wage, the cost of living has continued to skyrocket. Since we last 
raised the minimum wage, take the following examples on the escalation 
of the cost of living: Gas prices have increased by 36 percent. Health 
insurance rates have gone up by 33 percent. College tuition rates have 
gone up by 35 percent. And housing costs have gone up by 38 percent. 
There have been all of those increases during all of that time, and the 
minimum wage for Americans has gone unchanged.

Without any increase in their wages, these rising costs will force 
many minimum wage workers to make very difficult choices. Sometimes 
they must ask themselves: Should they pay the rent or buy groceries? 
Should they pay the heating bill or buy diapers? Some of the very 
basic, essential questions of life have to be answered by some of these 
minimum wage workers every day.

Indeed, desperate times often have called for desperate measures. Our 
inaction here in Washington has spurred a number of different States, 
including my State of Colorado, to take action on their own. In 
November, the people of my State voted to increase the State's minimum 
wage by a very substantial margin. Twenty-eight other States and the 
District of Columbia have also taken action to raise wages above the 
Federal minimum of $5.15 an hour.

In my view, unless we act as a Congress, what will end up happening 
is we will continue to see a hodgepodge of minimum wage increases in 
the 50 States of our Nation. I think it would be much preferable to 
business as well as to the people of America to have a Federal minimum 
wage that applies across the entire country.

The House of Representatives has already acted quickly on this 
legislation. It is simple and straightforward. It is now time for the 
Senate to act, and for this long overdue increase to finally become 
law.

Make no mistake, we all know this legislation will make a significant 
difference in the lives of working families. The increase will directly 
impact 13 million Americans and nearly 6 million children.

Do you hear that, Madam President? It will impact 13 million 
Americans and nearly 6 million children who would see their parents' 
earnings increase.

In Colorado, raising the Federal minimum wage to $7.25 an hour would 
directly raise the pay of 87,000 workers and benefit 251,000 workers 
overall.

This increase will mean an additional $4,400 in annual wages. That 
money is money that could be used for a number of great 
essentials: Almost 2 years of childcare, more than full tuition for a 
community college degree, a year and a half of heat and electricity, 
more than a year of groceries, and more than 8 months of rent.


I support doing everything we can to help these workers. As we help 
these workers, I also believe we must do everything we can to help the 
small businesses of America. That is why I am supporting the Reid 
substitute amendment that has the targeted tax relief to help small 
businesses thrive.

Having had a history of working as a small business person for a long 
time, I know the struggle small businesses engage in every day. I also 
know that it is small businesses that are the engine of most of the job 
creation in America today. That is true whether it is in Colorado or in 
the States of Wyoming or Massachusetts. Small businesses are, in fact, 
the backbone of job creation. In my State alone, we have 500,000 small 
businesses. And 98 percent of the businesses that hire workers in 
Colorado are, in fact, small businesses. These


businesses create jobs. They fuel our economy. They provide the 
livelihood for millions of workers, many of them low-wage earners. We 
must ensure that these small businesses continue to serve this vital 
purpose.

In my first hearing as a new member of the Senate Finance Committee, 
under the leadership of Chairman Baucus and Ranking Member Grassley, we 
heard from small business owners who testified that an increase in the 
minimum wage would, in some cases, force them to consider whether to 
eliminate some workers or cut back the hours of others. They also 
testified that some of the costs of the increase could be defrayed 
through specific tax incentives to help them meet the expenses 
associated with improving and expanding their businesses through 
construction and renovation and tax credits to help them hire more low-
wage workers.

Last week I introduced legislation called the Business RAISE Act to 
help small businesses with business tax relief. My bill contains some 
of the tax incentives we heard about in the Finance Committee hearing. 
Specifically, my legislation, now incorporated into the Reid 
substitute, would allow 15 year depreciation periods for restaurant 
improvements, new restaurant construction, and improvements to business 
property that is owned as opposed to leased. That simply makes economic 
sense. When you buy equipment or build a restaurant, you know that a 
39-year depreciation does not reflect economic reality. You know that 
those changes that have to be made will have to be made in 5 or 10 
years. So allowing these items to be expensed over a 15-year period 
will be a great incentive and of great assistance to small businesses 
and restaurants to do what they have to do to improve their businesses.

I also have proposed--and it has been included in the Reid substitute 
amendment--the expansion of the eligibility for the work opportunity 
tax credit to all disabled veterans. This legislation would expand the 
eligibility for the work opportunity tax credit to all disabled 
veterans. In these days of Afghanistan and Iraqi veteran forces 
returning back to our Nation with the kinds of injuries that many of 
them have sustained and some of the disabilities they have to suffer 
through, it is important for us as a nation to do everything we can to 
provide them with an opportunity. These work opportunity tax credits 
that would apply to all disabled veterans in America would be part of 
our Nation's promise to make sure we are taking care of the veterans of 
America.

I am proud to have worked with Chairman Baucus and Senator Grassley, 
with Republicans and Democratic Senators in the Finance Committee, to 
have many of these provisions included in the legislation that was 
reported unanimously out of committee. Those recommendations have now 
been included in the Reid substitute amendment which is currently 
pending. But we could have dealt with these issues separately. The 
political reality is that we will do two good things at the same time. 
We will raise the minimum wage for Americans, which has been on hold 
for far too long, and we will provide incentives to allow small 
businesses to continue to thrive with the tax incentives we are 
creating in this legislation. Toward that end, I am hopeful that this 
body of Senators will move quickly and expeditiously in approving the 
provisions of the Reid substitute amendment.

I yield the floor.