# None
## `a943e493d1e751ba94c3ce8195585bba`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, during the 1972 presidential campaign, 
Eleanor McGovern inspired the slogan, ''Put another Eleanor in the 
White House.''

The comparison to Eleanor Roosevelt is an appropriate one because 
Eleanor McGovern was a trailblazer and a truly great woman. She was an 
unapologetic liberal Democrat who cared deeply about people and about 
this planet.

She was outspoken in her support for our nation's children--demanding 
more attention and resources for early childhood development programs 
and better schools. She understood the importance of focusing on the 
needs of children beginning at birth. Had she become First Lady, this 
country's education system would be much improved and our children 
would be much better served.

She believed we should be better stewards of our precious environment 
long before ''mainstream America'' began to worry about global warming 
as an issue. Having just returned from a visit to the beautiful and 
breathtaking Black Hills of South Dakota, I can better understand 
Eleanor's love for open space and nature.

And like her husband George, Eleanor McGovern was a tireless advocate 
for peace. She campaigned every bit as hard as George to end the tragic 
war in Vietnam. She felt equally strong that the current war in Iraq 
was a mistake.

As one who got to know Eleanor pretty well over the years, I always 
enjoyed our talks and valued her insights. She loved to read and knew 
the issues better than most members of Congress. In fact she would have 
made an excellent congresswoman, U.S. Senator or even President.

Wherever Eleanor was, there were always plenty of books, magazines 
and newspapers. She underlined passages that held special meaning and 
she carefully collected magazine articles that she thought would be of 
use to George.

She also loved her gardens. When they lived in Washington, D.C., 
Eleanor treasured her small garden. She loved not only the flowers, but 
also the wildlife they attracted. She regularly fed the birds, raccoons 
and whatever else inhabited their neighborhood.

She was a loving mother who raised five incredible children. Sadly, 
her daughter Terry died after years of struggling with alcoholism. That 
terrible tragedy was heartbreaking for all of us who knew Terry, but it 
took a heavy toll on both Eleanor and George.

Eleanor loved George and George loved her. There is no way he would 
have become a U.S. Congressman or Senator or Presidential nominee 
without Eleanor. Her intellect, her love for this country and her 
respect for George were essential throughout her career.

Millions of Americans got to know and admire Eleanor in 1972. She 
campaigned with great enthusiasm for the McGovern-Shriver ticket--often 
on her own. She was not content to merely pose for pictures with her 
husband--instead, she gave speeches, attended rallies, appeared on 
political talk shows and contributed to policy discussions.

I will always believe that our country missed out by not electing 
George McGovern as president in 1972. It's not just because George 
would have made a superb president, but also because Eleanor would have 
been an incredible first lady. She would have been an ambassador for 
all that is good and decent about our country.

I am deeply grateful to my colleague from South Dakota, Stephanie 
Herseth Sandlin, for her leadership in naming Postal Service facility 
at 202 South Dumont Avenue in Woonsocket, South Dakota as the ''Eleanor 
McGovern Post Office Building'' and for her recognition of Eleanor's 
many contributions. I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2654.

In closing, let me say very simply--what this world needs is more 
Eleanor McGoverns.



I reserve the balance of my time.