# None
## `a9b2c18b04756f2600f12ced7bff72b7`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois â€” 2 October 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I wish to take a moment to 
recognize Captain Charles L. Stuppard with the United States Navy for 
his service and dedication as Commander of Task Group 56.6 in Kuwait, 
Iraq, and Afghanistan. As the Navy Individual Augmentee Support Group, 
Task Group 56.6 serves to in-process, oversee, train, out-process and 
care for members of the Navy assigned as Individual Augmentees to 
duties in the Global War on Terrorism. Rather than being a member of a 
particular military structure, such as a brigade or battalion, an 
''Individual Augmentee'' (or IA) is a Sailor who fills a position for 
which there is a shortage or high demand. After a year serving as the 
Commander of TG 56.6, On Thursday, June 5, 2008, a Change of Command 
Ceremony took place at the CDR Phillip Murphy-Sweet Warrior Transition 
Program Facility, Camp Arifjan, Kuwait to recognize Captain Stuppard's 
leadership.

When I think of Captain Stuppard, I am reminded of the words of 
Martin Luther King, Jr., and Rosalynn Carter. Reverend Doctor King 
reflected, ''The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in 
moments of comfort, but where he stands at times of challenge and 
controversy.'' Mrs. Carter once said, ''A leader takes people where 
they want to go. A great leader takes people where they don't 
necessarily want to go, but ought to be.'' As the Commander of the 
Navy's IA Support Group, Captain Stuppard demonstrated the spirit of 
these quotes. During a time of great conflict and challenge, he was 
responsible for ensuring that thousands of Sailors were supported and 
cared for while performing a variety of specialized positions to meet 
theater requirements in Kuwait, Iraq and Afghanistan. To accomplish 
this, Captain Stuppard enhanced the check-in and training process of 
incoming personnel to theater, improved the support structures, 
provided oversight during the deployment, and strengthened supports for 
returning service members. Central to these successes were his 
commitment and ability to coordinate and streamline operational 
relationships within IA and non-IA stakeholders to provide the services 
needed by all to our IA sailors in the Global War on Terrorism. His 
coordinated efforts improved administrative efficiencies, which reduced 
the immediate risk and burden on deployed Expeditionary forces. Captain 
Stuppard was lauded for his ''Sailor first'' philosophy--developing 
programs, ensuring key supports for military personnel, and 
establishing benchmarks for continuous support for future operations. 
These activities demand adept leadership and an acute sense of mission 
goals to address the rapidly changing needs of deployed Sailors.

Truly, these accomplishments are impressive and worthy of the 
recognition of the United States House of Representatives. I wish 
Captain Stuppard well in his new role as the Executive Assistant to the 
Commander of Navy Installations Command at the Washington Navy Yard. I 
am certain that in this position he will continue to serve his country 
with honor, lead with wisdom, and display courage that few demonstrate 
but many admire.
