# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `aa10330158c74180e6f708d0fe342ba9`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, let me make it clear, I don't support 
medals for failure. I don't support promotion to a higher position for 
failure. I believe that the awards and accolades Senator Levin alluded 
to that have been provided to those who have committed egregious 
failures was not only inappropriate, it was absolutely insulting.

I also, though, point out that history will judge many of these 
people who have been given medals of various types, and already that 
judgment has been harsh. All of us are more concerned about our place 
in history than we are medals. History and the American people are 
already judging the failures and the misleading statements, such as 
''stuff happens'' and ''mission accomplished'' and a few ''dead-
enders'' and ''last throes'' and all of those statements which have 
been made over the past 3/1/2/ years which led the American people to 
believe we were succeeding in Iraq when many of us knew we weren't 
because we violated a fundamental principle called the Powell doctrine: 
If you want to win, you go in with overwhelming force.

The reason I am very concerned today, even though we have a very 
outstanding general in Petraeus, is that I am not sure we have enough 
troops still.

Throughout our history, military commanders have been held 
responsible. Abraham Lincoln held General McClellan responsible and 
fired him. In World War II, those who were in command who were 
responsible for December 7, 1941, were held responsible. In the Korean 
war, General MacArthur was held responsible. The fact is that military 
leaders are held responsible as well as civilian leaders.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to print in the Record the 
number of times President Bush said that he relied on the judgment of 
the military commanders. Those military commanders did not exercise 
good judgment and therefore are responsible for the rosy scenario and 
the inaccurate depiction of facts on the ground in Iraq as they came 
before our committee, the Armed Services Committee, and spoke to the 
President of the United States and the American people.