# UNFINISHED BUSINESS
## `aa2866b86b56f12178f747f963b289be`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 3 December 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, we are now in the final days of this 
session, and congressional Democrats have left an enormous amount of 
work undone. As we move into the final stretch, let's take stock of the 
unfinished business. On spending, we are 2 full months into fiscal 
2008, and our friends across the aisle are still staring at 11 
unfinished spending bills out of the 12 they were supposed to do. We 
need to work together to get those overdue spending bills signed into 
law.

On troop funding, thousands of American families will have sons and 
daughters fighting overseas this Christmas, and under the Constitution 
that falls on us to provide for them. We may disagree about the 
mission, but no one should disagree about getting those courageous men 
and women everything they need while they are fighting in the field. 
Congressional Democrats need to get serious about the troops and get 
them the funds they need without any more games and without any further 
delay.

We have heard some remarkable reports from Iraq in recent weeks. 
Sunni tribes and other militants who turned against al-Qaida are now 
working with coalition forces to secure Iraqi neighborhoods and towns. 
Refugees are returning to Iraq in droves. Shops are reopening, curfews 
are being relaxed. Al-Qaida in Iraq, we are told, has been pushed to 
the brink.

Americans like what they have heard, and even some congressional 
Democrats have acknowledged the positive reports. Congressman Murtha, a 
hero of the antiwar left, says the new strategy is a success. 
Congressman Dicks talked about a new feeling of normalcy in Iraq. 
Thanks to the increase in U.S. forces and a smart new strategy, we have 
seen a stunning reversal.

Unfortunately, talk of congratulations is scarce among the antiwar 
left. Rather than stop for a minute to acknowledge what we are hearing 
from the field, our friends on the other side now seem to be looking 
around for something that is not going well so they can blame that on 
Republicans.

According to press reports, they have settled on gas prices. And we 
do need to do something to lower energy costs. But the bill our 
Democratic friends are reportedly about to bring to the floor will not 
do that. In fact, the bill they are discussing would actually increase 
gas prices at the pump and electricity bills in States that do not have 
an abundance of windmills. An energy bill that raises the cost of 
energy is not what we need today.

Frankly, I am baffled by the congressional Democrats' position on the 
whole troop funding debate. Earlier in the year, they said sending more 
troops to Iraq would lead to failure. Then they approved the funds 
anyway. Now they say things are going well, and they want to cut off 
the funds that are needed to finish the job. So they funded the war 
when they thought it would fail, and now they want to defund it when 
they think it is succeeding.

Does this make any sense at all? Reasonable people could be able to 
agree that now is not the time to talk about walking away from our 
troops in Iraq. Yet this is exactly what Democrats are planning to do.

The senior Senator from Massachusetts has said he thinks the 
Democrats have an obligation, an obligation to cut off funds for the 
war. And now they are apparently following through with it. Just in 
time for the holidays, they are forcing the Pentagon to prepare pink 
slips for more than 250,000 employees as a way of getting around the 
threat.

I would urge the majority to rethink its position, to keep its word, 
and to send our troops the funds they need to finish their mission and 
return home in success. We have a solemn obligation to assure America's 
military families that their sons and daughters will get whatever they 
need. Let's not break that trust at this moment of optimism and hope 
and good news from the field at a time when even Congressman Murtha 
says the surge is working.

Congressional Democrats need to get serious about security at home 
too. It is no accident that we have not been hit here since 9/11. We 
passed the PATRIOT Act, set up the Department of Homeland Security, and 
made sure intelligence agents would have the tools they need to do 
their jobs.

One of those tools is the Protect America Act that we passed in 
August and expires on February 1. This essential terror-fighting tool 
recognizes that we need to be able to monitor terrorists overseas. And 
however the Senate deals with its expiration, we must protect its core 
strengths. But Democrats on the Judiciary Committee seem to disagree. 
They just voted for a revised version of this law that weakens it in 
dangerous ways. The experts tell us that under this new version, the 
Judiciary Committee version, U.S. commanders could be blocked from 
gathering critical intelligence on foreign targets.

Imagine: An American commander prepares to attack a city such as 
Fallujah. He gives orders for a blanket surveillance of the city to 
pinpoint terrorist activity. Then the lawyers step in and say: Sir, you 
cannot do that. You need to go to the FISA Court first.

Well, this is one vision of how to fight the war on terror. 
Republicans have a different view. We think we need to stop foreign 
terrorists who want to kill innocent Americans, not be paralyzed into 
inaction over their search and seizure rights.

Republicans are ready to support the bipartisan, commonsense Senate 
Intelligence Committee bill. In addition to allowing our commanders 
greater freedoms in the field, this version recognizes that telecom 
companies should not be sued for doing their patriotic duty in helping 
intelligence officials to protect American lives.

It also recognizes if these companies are exposed to lawsuits, 
taxpayers should not have to foot the bill, which is exactly what 
Democrats on the Judiciary Committee are proposing. They want to make 
sure the trial lawyers are happy one way or another. We need to protect 
the telecom companies that did their duty and the taxpayers, not the 
trial lawyers, who want to bring these lawsuits.


Congressional Democrats have neglected their duty on the 12 spending 
bills. They are threatening to neglect their duty to the troops in the 
field and to our security at home. Now they are about to slap millions 
of Americans with a middle-class tax hike better known as the AMT.

Well, the American people have a right to know how Democrats found 
the time for 63 Iraq votes over the course of the past year, some of 
them at midnight, but somehow couldn't find an afternoon to fix a 
mistake in the Tax Code that is about to hit 50 million households. It 
is not as if they didn't see it coming. They have known about the 
problem all year. Treasury Secretary Paulson reminded us of its urgency 
in October. He sent us a letter, dated October 23, reminding us that 
the problem was before us. He warned that if Congress didn't act by 
early last month, about 25 million households would get mistakenly 
whacked with a major tax hike. He said if we didn't act by the middle 
of this month, 50 million would face delays in getting their refunds. 
Even if we acted today, millions of tax returns will still be delayed. 
We have already inconvenienced millions of American taxpayers by 
inaction.

The IRS oversight chairman reminded us about the problem again last 
month, saying the longer we wait, the longer the refund delays would 
be. Here is a letter from the IRS, dated November 26. This is a tax 
none of these people were ever intended to pay. Originally targeted at 
fewer than 200 families, it was never indexed for inflation. It is a 
mistake that has never been permanently fixed, and Republicans are not 
about to let Democrats impose a


new tax on a lot of other taxpayers to pay for its correction. 
Americans don't need to be giving Government an interest-free loan in 
April by letting the IRS hold on to their refunds. They need to get 
their refunds when they expect them. We need to fix the AMT without new 
taxes, and we need to do it now. The number of families affected is 
staggering: Democratic foot dragging on the AMT threatens 1.6 million 
taxpayers in New Jersey, more than 3 million in New York, and nearly 
4.5 million in California. That is more people in California alone than 
we have in my State. We need to block this giant middle-class tax hike 
now before voters get stuck with it in April.

Senate Democrats need to act on executive nominations, including 
nominees to head the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department 
of Agriculture. The Judiciary Committee needs to do a much better job 
processing circuit court nominations. Christmas will be here before we 
know it, and we have only had one hearing--one--on one circuit court 
nomination since the summer recess. We have only had five hearings for 
five circuit court nominees the entire year of 2007. During a 
comparable period in President Clinton's last Congress, the Republican-
controlled Senate held hearings on 10 of President Clinton's circuit 
court nominees, including five after the August recess.

We have had qualified circuit court nominees up here for months who 
satisfy the supposed criteria of the Democratic majority. There is no 
good reason for the Judiciary Committee to bring progress on circuit 
court nominations to a standstill. It is time our colleagues on the 
other side acted on nominations and on the other legislative duties I 
have listed.

They have spent nearly a year now focusing on politics rather than 
essentials. Now they are trying to distract the public by shifting the 
focus at the finish line. We need to pass the bills that keep the 
Government functioning. We need to stop taxes from being raised on the 
middle class. We need to strengthen the laws that help us catch 
terrorists before they strike, and we need to fund the troops in the 
field.

It is now December, the last month of the year. Senate Democrats have 
more to do in these last few weeks than they have already done all 
year. It is time to stop the political show. It is time to focus for 
once on the fundamentals.