# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `aac03213305e0419808c73305bcc30fa`
`Mr. AKIN â€” 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, we come here today, we have spent most of the 
day on this, to discuss a resolution. It has two parts. The first says 
that we support our troops, and the second says that we are opposed to 
the mission that the troops are sent on.

Now, the problem with the resolution is that it is self-contradictory 
right up front. If we were going to say we are supporting our troops, 
we would give them body armor. We would give them up-armored Humvees. 
We would give them tanks. But would we withhold the most important in 
our arsenal and that is other American fighting men and women? So to 
say that we are going to support our troops, but we are not


going to send them any reinforcements is on the face of it 
contradictory. Could you picture Davy Crockett at the Alamo looking at 
his BlackBerry, getting a message from Congress: Davy Crockett, we 
support you. The only thing is we are not going to send any troops. I 
am sure that would really be impressive to Davy Crockett.

The second problem with this resolution is that it really misses the 
job of what Congressmen should be doing. Look, I am an engineer by 
training. If we are about to make a mistake or we are doing something 
wrong, I am open minded to my Democrat colleagues saying to me, Todd, 
we are going down the wrong path. That is a bad idea. You should do it 
this way instead. I was always trained that if you are ready to 
criticize somebody, you at least offer an alternative. But the problem 
with this nifty little resolution is that it says we support the 
troops, but we are not going to give them any reinforcements, and then 
it is blank. There is no recommendation. There is no leadership. They 
are just saying we are going to stand on the sidelines and say, It 
won't work. But don't we owe our soldiers something positive, something 
specific, a positive recommendation?

The Democrats have been elected to majority. That means leadership. 
That means if you have got a better idea, put it on the table; but if 
you don't, shut up and don't undermine the morale of our troops and 
encourage our enemies. That isn't very helpful.

Now, I have heard people talking about the fact that this is a civil 
war. This isn't a civil war. If we leave, it will be what is a real 
civil war. Right now there is a lot of ethnic clashing and violence, 
and what is that caused by? Guess what, terrorists. They said they are 
doing it intentionally. They blow up a holy place of the Shias, and the 
Shias react and they go shoot up a bunch of Sunnis, and so, yes. But 
who started all of this? Well, of course, it is the terrorists. It is 
their intention. And do we think if they can destabilize Iraq by 
fomenting strife between racial groups that they won't take the same 
strategy to the other barely stable nations in the Middle East, nations 
where you have a Sunni leadership and a Shia majority? Are they not 
going to do the same? Or are you going to say, oh, but it is a civil 
war, so we can wash our hands of it, it is nothing to worry about?

Now, we had the ambassadors to Egypt and to Jordan, and they pleaded 
with us today, do not rapidly withdraw your troops. So we started to 
ask, well, what would happen if we were to do this? Well, nobody knows. 
But there is one thing we can kind of assume. All the way through 
history, the history of mankind, whenever there is anarchy, it lasts 
but a short time; and it is immediately filled with some kind of very 
strong dictator. Now, do we think that the dictator is going to be a 
moderate, reasonable sort of guy, or if we pull out of Iraq 
immediately, is it not likely that we are going to get an 
Islamoterrorist dictator? I think that that makes at least some sense. 
So then now what do we have? Now we have Iraq with the oil money 
supporting it, with this crazy dictator spreading this same kind of 
radical Islam all over the Middle East. That is a minimum for the 
scenario of what we are potentially looking at if we rapidly withdraw.

Now, it seems to me that all of us, as Americans, need a little bit 
of a direction check. And I think sometimes when we need direction, it 
is helpful to look at the people who came and founded this great Nation 
before us. And so I go back to a question that I ask audiences, not 
only school kids but adults. I ask them, What is it that makes America 
so unique and so precious? If you take America like an onion and take 
all the outer layers off, when you get down to the heart, what makes us 
who we are as a people? And invariably I hear the word ''freedom.'' But 
that is not quite sufficient because it isn't quite complete. You see, 
the people at Tiananmen Square, those little kids in college, wanted 
freedom, but they greased the treads of Chinese tanks. Just because you 
want freedom doesn't mean you can have it.

There was more to what our Founders understood, and they set it forth 
before we embarked on our first war as a Nation eloquently in our 
Declaration of Independence. It says: ''We hold these truths to be 
self-evident.'' Rather flowery language. Any idiot should know this: 
''That all men are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable 
Rights, that among these is Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of 
Happiness.'' And our job in government is to protect those God-given 
rights. It is not just an idea; it was a conviction. People say ideas 
have consequences. Many idiots have ideas, but an idea that you die for 
has consequences. And this idea was powerful. It is the engine that has 
driven America. It has guided us in times of war because we will say, 
yes, we believe there are certain fundamental God-given rights that all 
people are given.

And that is what I taught my son when he was a little kid. Here he is 
with the Marine Club, just a little guy, saluting Old Glory with a 
whole bunch of little kids in some motley uniforms they bought from the 
used equipment store for military services. Here he is posing just as 
proud as can be. Founder of the Marine Club, taught, taught that there 
are some things in this world that are worth dying for, and those 
convictions are the fact that God gives us life and liberty and the 
pursuit of happiness. And I believe America still believes that.

There is the little marine. He has grown up now. That is the cache of 
terrorist arms that was found in Fallujah. That is the gang that he had 
the proud opportunity to lead as a second lieutenant in Fallujah 
because he believes that there is nothing particularly strange for us 
to be fighting terrorists.

Why would it be so odd for us to fight terrorists? What do terrorists 
believe? They believe that you blow up innocent people. What do we 
believe? That life is a gift from God.



What do terrorists do terrorism for? To take your liberty away, to 
compel you to do something you don't want to do, to make women into 
slaves, to take away people's freedom, to take away your liberty. That 
is what terrorism is for, and that is fundamentally against the idea 
that God made people to be free. That is why he fights.

That is why America has always fought. There is nothing weird or 
unusual about this. Is it worth fighting terrorists? Is it worth 
risking your life for freedom? I taught my son yes. When I went over to 
visit him, together we reaffirmed what we were doing in Iraq.

What? Is it so unusual that we have a debate about whether we should 
be going to war or not? That very first war was over the Declaration of 
Independence. There was a gentleman from Virginia who said, What has 
there been in the conduct? But perhaps maybe we could adjust his words.

What has there been in the conduct of the terrorists that gives us 
any room for hope? The terrorists say the only good Jew is a dead Jew, 
the only good Christian is a dead Christian. That doesn't leave you a 
lot of room for negotiation.

If we want to stay free, we must fight. Millions of Americans that 
are armed in the holy cause of liberty are invincible by any force 
which the terrorists may send against us. A just God presides over the 
destinies of nations. Is life so dear or peace so sweet as to be 
purchased at the price of the terrorists running the world? Forbid it, 
Almighty God.

I know not what course others may take, but as for me, and as for my 
son, we will choose liberty.