# ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONTRACTING ACT
## `ab16bf5507847cbf807b9e79b4aa4981`
`Mr. WAXMAN â€” 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Chairman, I thank you very much for yielding to me.

I just want to point out that I think my good friend from my same 
State, former chairman of the Armed Services Committee, now the ranking 
member, protesteth too much.

He complained that they have to award a contract right away and that 
this bill would prevent it. Well, we


have already pointed out that that is not the case at all. A contract 
can be awarded on an emergency basis; but after a year, there ought to 
be competition. He thought that sounded good once we explained it to 
him on the floor.

Then he said, well, there is another provision that he dislikes and 
that is the fact that somebody who awards a contract cannot go to work 
for the contractor. Well, that provision was narrowed, and it was 
narrowed to say it had to be a senior person, and it also had to be 
someone who was personally and substantially involved in awarding the 
contract.

Now, a lot of these contracts are determined by political appointees. 
For example, we learned that the Halliburton no-bid contract to restore 
oil in Iraq was signed by the contracting civil servant, but the 
decision was made by a political appointee. The gentleman's name is 
Michael Mobbs. He decided that Halliburton ought to get that contract 
and that there should not be competition. He even went before a 
committee of principals, including Scooter Libby representing the Vice 
President, and suggested to them this is the way the contract ought to 
be awarded, and the contract was awarded. He argued that it needed to 
be awarded at that time to that contractor, they would do the job.

Should he be allowed to go within a year and go sign up as an 
employee for Halliburton? I do not think he should be permitted. All we 
say is there ought to be a cooling-off period. We do not say he never 
could go work for Halliburton, but I think it is unseemly to have him 
go right from that position to go work for Halliburton.

Now, I must say from those who tell us everything is going great in 
Iraq, they are also telling us today on the House floor everything has 
gone well with contractors in Iraq. I must submit that things have not 
gone well, unless you do not mind hundreds of billions of dollars in 
questioned costs, in overcharging by a contractor to bring in gasoline 
from Kuwait, having a contractor charge for $45 for Cokes or $50 for 
laundry, obscene kind of expenditures. Things have not gone well. That 
is why we need more oversight, and that is why we need this important 
reform legislation.