# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS MOTION TO PROCEED
## `ab5b215c6ed942356079c819947e8de7`
`Mr. WEBB â€” 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, my first day in the Senate I introduced 
legislation that would provide educational benefits for those who have 
served in our military since 9/11 that would be the equivalent of the 
educational benefits that those who served in World War II received.

We are very fond in this body and elsewhere in the U.S. Government of 
talking about those who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan as being 
the new ''greatest generation.'' Well, it seems to me very logical that 
if we are going to use that rhetoric, we should be able to provide 
those who have served in this difficult time with the same educational 
benefits as those who served during World War II.

I was very privileged, for 4 years, to serve as a committee counsel 
on the House Veterans' Committee at a different point in my life, and 
was able to study the benefits that had been provided to our veterans 
from the American Revolution forward.

I also noticed an interesting phenomenon; and that was, a good part 
of the veterans' benefits package that was provided to those who served 
in World War II was done so because of the wisdom of those who had 
served in World War I--partially because they did not receive these 
sorts of benefits. The World War I veterans were very adamant that the 
veterans coming back from World War II be treated differently than they 
were. One of the end results of that was the GI bill.

Very recently, former Senator Bob Dole testified in front of the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee, of which I am a member. I asked him about 
his own experiences, having been wounded in World War II, and how the 
World War II GI bill assisted him in his transition to the civilian 
world. This is what he said in part:




 I think [the World War II GI bill was] the single most 


 important piece of legislation when it comes to education, 


 how it changed America more than anything I can think of. 


 [We] ought to take the same care of the veterans today.


I could not agree more strongly. The people who served in World War 
II--there were 16 million of them--were offered an entirely different 
concept in terms of fairness in American society when they returned. 
Eight million of them were able to take advantage of a GI bill that 
provided for their tuition when they went to college, bought their 
books, and gave them a monthly stipend.

This education benefit has gone up and down since the enactment of 
World War II GI bill. When I came back from Vietnam, the benefit was a 
monthly stipend that was not very helpful to most Vietnam veterans. 
That has been on my mind for years, as I think about the service of our 
veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan.

Just as the World War I veterans stepped forward and took care of the 
World war II veterans, I believe it is the responsibility--not wholly, 
but strongly--of those of us who served in Vietnam and who experienced 
a lot of the disadvantages of service, once we got out, to make sure we 
take care of those who are serving now and who have served in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. It is for that reason I introduced this bill.


To look back on the educational benefits that were derived from this 
experience, I asked my staff to take a look at those Members of this 
body--our colleagues--who served in World War II, just to see where 
they were able to go to school and to see how the World War II GI bill 
benefitted them, and then to compare that with what they would have 
been able to do today if


they were the same individual having served in Iraq and/or Afghanistan 
and were coming back with today's Montgomery GI bill, which basically 
is a peacetime GI bill that was put in place well before 9/11 and was 
designed more as a little bit of a bump to assist in recruitment than a 
true readjustment benefit for people who had been in war.

Our chairman, Senator Akaka, was able to go to the University of 
Hawaii under that program, the World War II GI bill. Today, if one were 
applying for the Montgomery GI bill, 41.5 percent of his education 
would have been paid for.

Senator Inouye, who is a cosponsor of our bill, was able to attend 
George Washington Law School. Today, that would cost $48,460 a year. 
The Montgomery GI bill would pay for 12.4 percent of that.

Senator Lautenberg, who also is a cosponsor of this bill, was able to 
go to Columbia on a full boat, graduating in 1949. Today, to go to 
Columbia, it would cost $46,874 a year. The Montgomery GI bill would 
pay for 12.8 percent of that.

Senator Stevens was able to go to UCLA and Harvard Law School. His 
staff declined to be specific about how much of that was assisted by 
the GI bill, but if one were to go to Harvard Law School today, it 
would cost $54,066, which is about 11 percent of what the Montgomery GI 
bill would take care of.

Senator John Warner, my senior Senator from Virginia, my esteemed 
colleague and friend, has told me many times he would not be in the 
Senate today if it had not been for the educational benefits of the GI 
bill. He was able to go to Washington and Lee for an undergraduate 
degree. Today that would cost $42,327 for 1 year, of which the 
Montgomery GI bill would pick up 14 percent. He was then able to go to 
UVA Law School, full boat, as a reward for his service. Today that 
would cost $44,800.

Just to be fair, I am standing here today because Uncle Sam made a 
bet on me. I was able to go to the Naval Academy. The taxpayers of 
America paid for that. The taxpayers of America would pay for that 
today, the same amount. I was also in a different situation than most 
of my Vietnam war veteran colleagues because after I was wounded and 
had medical difficulties with a bone infection in my leg, I was 
medically retired from the Marine Corps and was able to go to law 
school on a program called Vocational Rehabilitation, which was the 
exact same program as the people who served in World War II received. I 
was able to go to Georgetown Law School. Today that would cost $51,530 
a year. The Montgomery GI bill would pick up 11.6 percent of it.

So on the one hand, we are saying this is the next great generation. 
This is the next greatest generation. We never cease to talk about how 
much we value their service, these people leaving home on extended 
deployments again and again, giving us everything we ask, and then we 
are giving them a GI bill that was designed for peacetime.

It is not because we don't spend money on education. We just passed 
legislation for Federal education grants. I voted for it. I assume the 
Presiding Officer voted for it. If you add up these grants--and these 
are grants--this is not rewarding someone for affirmative service. If 
you add up these grants, it is going to cost $18.2 billion this year. 
We are having a difficult time getting an exact number on what my GI 
bill proposal would add up to, but the best estimates we have had 
informally are about $2 billion.

I would submit that with the cost of this war now heading well north 
of $1 trillion, and with the President coming over and saying he wants 
$200 billion on top of that and on top of an appropriations bill, we 
could spend this money in a way that will allow the people who have 
served since 9/11 a first-class future. We are saying they are that 
good; let's let them be that good.

For that reason, I hope all of my colleagues will step forward and 
join me so we can get this legislation passed this year.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.