# STABILITY FOR SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE
## `acefbc7516beda53d0b227198cc440ba`
`Mr. SOUDER â€” 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. SOUDER. Madam Speaker, the issue of stability in southeastern 
Europe is once again high on the world's agenda. In December, issues 
concerning the status of Kosovo will again come to the fore. Regional 
stability is tied closely, but not inextricably, to these issues. As we 
approach the winter months, it is important that our southeastern 
European friends be strong internally so that they can be producers of 
stability and not consumers of it.

Our friend, the Republic of Macedonia, is one such producer of 
stability. Time and again, it has proved itself a great friend and ally 
of the United States of America. Time and again, it has proven itself a 
friend to neighboring states. Time and again, it has stepped up to the 
plate and provided support to the United States in the War on Terrorism 
by providing soldiers to serve alongside our own troops in Afghanistan 
and Iraq. Time and again, it has worked with and voted with the United 
States on important resolutions in the United Nations.

Unfortunately, our friend Greece has not been so supportive of the 
Republic of Macedonia. In 1993 and again in 1995, Greece imposed 
economic sanctions on Macedonia because Greece claims, entirely and 
exclusively, the word ''Macedonia.'' Despite the fact


that Macedonia changed its flag and constitution to allay Greece's 
fears, today the Hellenic Republic continues to object to countries and 
international institutions recognizing the Republic of Macedonia by its 
constitutional name.

Without going into great detail on this subject, it is important to 
note that the Macedonians do not claim exclusivity over the word 
''Macedonia'' and do not in fact object to Greece using it in any way 
it sees fit.

There are now 118 countries around the world recognizing the Republic 
of Macedonia by its rightful and constitutional name, including Russia, 
China and, I am proud to say, the United States of America. Just last 
month, Canada became the latest country to recognize the Republic of 
Macedonia. We did the right thing when we recognized the Republic of 
Macedonia in November 2004, and I am grateful for the President's 
leadership in righting a historic wrong.

This past summer, the now former Greek Ambassador to Macedonia was 
sacked by her own government for admitting that Greece should agree to 
a double-name formula, something the Macedonians have been arguing for 
since Greece first raised objections.

The relationship between Macedonian and Greek citizens could not be 
stronger. Greek businessmen conduct a large amount of business in 
Macedonia and have no problem with the name. In September, the Republic 
of Macedonia waived the requirement for Greeks to bring their passports 
when they come to visit Macedonia. Today, Greeks simply need an 
identity card. Macedonians in turn spend much of their vacation time in 
Greece during the summer months. The two countries cooperate on many 
other issues and enjoy good relations.

It is time for our Greek friends to allow the citizens of the 
Republic of Macedonia to enjoy their sovereign right to determine the 
name of their own country. It is time for Greece to drop its objections 
in the political arena, and to leave to the historians debates about 
Alexander the Great and the ancient Macedonians.

We live in the here and the now, and it is time to move forward. Our 
Greek friends enjoy pointing out their contributions to modern-day 
democracy and for that we thank them. Let them now contribute in their 
longstanding tradition of supporting democratic values by allowing the 
people of the Republic of Macedonia to call themselves by what they 
have always called themselves and by dropping their objections to a 
country that only desires friendship and has proven itself as a great 
friend and ally.
