# COMMENDING THE MEMBERS OF THE NEVADA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD AND AIR  NATIONAL GUARD
## `ad2674553848fb7de2ef151a6a18e6ba`
`Mr. HELLER of Nevada â€” 30 July 2008`

---


Mr. HELLER of Nevada. I want to express my appreciation to the 
gentlewoman from Virginia for yielding time and thank her for her kind 
remarks and also to my colleagues from Indiana and, of course, from 
southern Nevada (Ms. Berkley) for the remarks that she made. Thank you 
very much.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in order to honor and thank the members of 
the Nevada Army National Guard, Air National Guard and the members of 
the Nevada Reserve for their service to the State of Nevada and the 
United States. Members of the Nevada National Guard and Reserve serve 
our State and country with honor and distinction. Whether they are 
saving lives during natural disasters or protecting our country abroad, 
Nevadans and our Nation owe our Guardsmen and Reservists a debt of 
gratitude for their service. America must remain committed to our men 
and women overseas, and I pray for the safe return of every 
servicemember of the United States.

Today I consider it a privilege to offer this resolution along with 
the Nevada House Delegation, Ms. Berkley and Mr. Porter, in order to 
honor some of Nevada's finest citizens.

As we all know, the people who make the greatest sacrifices for our 
country are the brave men and women of our Armed Forces. Very often 
this means servicemembers are deployed for extended periods of time 
away from family, children, and friends, sometimes in hostile 
conditions. In addition, when members of the National Guard deploy, 
their families are not the only ones that are affected. Since our 
servicemembers live and work in their hometowns throughout Nevada, 
employers and communities are also affected by these deployments. I 
would like to recognize and thank those employers who have displayed 
patriotism by saving positions for returning servicemembers and 
supporting the servicemembers' families during this time.

The Nevada National Guard is regarded as a technically and tactically 
proficient fighting force fully capable of seamlessly serving alongside 
active duty personnel. Nevada's Guardsmen and Reservists have bravely 
served both domestically and abroad in support of the global war on 
terrorism.

The Nevada National Guard has experienced both triumphant and 
disappointing moments during the past few years. Most of the Nevada 
National Guard's wartime deployments have been in support of Operations 
Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. The Nevada National Guard has had 
the pleasure of welcoming hundreds of our airmen and soldiers home from 
worldwide deployments but also has had the sorrowful task of mourning 
the loss of three Army Guard combat casualties, the first casualties 
for the Nevada National Guard since World War II.

At this time, I want to extend my deepest condolences to family 
members of Chief Warrant Officer John Flynn, Sergeant Patrick Stewart, 
and Specialist Anthony Cometa who lost their lives in defense of our 
country. Generations of Nevadans will enjoy greater peace and security 
because of the sacrifices of John, Patrick, and Anthony.

Despite trying times, I am proud of the accomplishments of the Nevada 
Guard during the past 5 years. The Nevada National Guard pledges to 
fulfill its commitment to the citizens of the Silver State and the 
Nation in the same conscientious and professional manner they have 
maintained for nearly 150 years.

I support all our men and women in uniform. From the Middle East to 
Fallon Naval Air Force Station and Nellis Air Force Base, our troops 
are doing an excellent job of protecting Americans from new threats. 
Recognizing the sacrifices our troops have made in the past and 
continue to make today is critical for every citizen.



Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support House Resolution 358 and 
honor the bravery of America's best servicemembers.