# THE OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD
## `adcd8982351d9d3ebedbc122ffb51807`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia â€” 6 March 2008`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. It's affecting the information that they're 
able to get. But it's communication from a foreign individual on 
foreign soil to another foreign individual on foreign soil. This is not 
between an American individual on American soil to another American 
individual on American soil.

Mr. Speaker, when it's confused and brought into kind of a perplexing 
dilemma for people and talking about the violation of Americans' civil 
rights, that's not what this is about. This is about protecting 
Americans from terrorists overseas. And what we have seen in the last 
19 or 20 days is exactly what Senator Rockefeller knew when we see, 
when he said on February 14 of this year: ''What people have to 
understand around here is that the quality of intelligence we are going 
to be receiving is going to be degraded.'' He said, stating before the 
Senate, that if this bill is not passed, the ability to gather 
intelligence will be degraded. Mr. Speaker, that means that we are not 
able to get the intelligence we need.

We are now 19, 20 days into not having this bill in place, not having 
this law in place. And why? I have difficulty when I get asked at home 
that question. My constituents, many of them, will say, why won't they 
pass the bill? A majority of the House wants it. Right? And that's 
correct. Twenty-one Members on the Democrat side have said they would 
vote for the bill. The vast majority, if not everybody, on the 
Republican side would vote for the bill. Mr. Speaker, you know, that's 
a majority of this House of Representatives. So let the House work its 
will.

Why won't they bring it up? The only rationale, the only reason that 
has made any sense to anybody, is purely political. Purely political, 
either to continue the issue for their left, liberal wing because they 
believe they could gain political points with it or the political 
nature of not making it so the communications companies have immunity 
from the information that they provide on foreign individuals, 
terrorists overseas communicating with other terrorists overseas, 
providing those individuals the same protections that we have under the 
United States Constitution.

Never before has that been done. Never before have we provided 
individuals in a foreign land, non-American citizens in a foreign land, 
the rights, privileges, and protections of the United States 
Constitution. Because of the trial lawyer lobby and because of the 
trial lawyer support for the majority party, the Democratic Party, 
that's apparently the only reasonable answer to the question, Why won't 
they allow this to come forward?

But, Mr. Speaker, the leadership has recognized, at least they say 
they have recognized, the importance of this issue. Just 6 days ago, 
the majority leader said: ''This is a very serious, important bill. 
It's critical to the defense of our country.'' Just last week he said 
this. Why, then, Mr. Speaker, are we not voting on it today? It's 4:25. 
There's no reason that we ought not have brought this bill up today or 
yesterday or the day before or tomorrow. But, Mr. Speaker, no, the 
House has gone home.

Individual after individual has appreciated and recognized the 
importance of this bill, that the terrorists, those who want to do us 
harm, are very nimble. They're very flexible. They're very bright. 
Members of the House of Representatives oftentimes have the opportunity 
to go to Iraq and to Afghanistan. I was talking to a colleague who was 
there just 11 days ago. That's just a week into when we didn't have 
this capability. And 11 days ago, this Member of this body, this House 
of Representatives, was told by a general on the ground in Iraq that 
the information they were receiving was not as of high quality as it 
had been the week before. Changes occur that rapidly in the ability to 
gain information.

Mr. Speaker, some say that the individuals representing them across 
this Nation are incapable of leading this Nation anymore. Some say that 
the actions of this House of Representatives border upon treasonous 
activity. Mr. Speaker, this isn't leadership that's going on in this 
House right now; it's an abrogation of duty. It's an abrogation of 
responsibility. It's a violation of the people's trust. It's a 
violation of the oath of office. Mr. Speaker, the American people are 
demanding that this be voted on and that it be voted on at the first 
opportunity, which now becomes next week.

Mr. Speaker, the Senate Republicans have voted ''yes.'' The Senate 
Democrats have voted ''yes.'' The House Republicans will vote ''yes'' 
when given the opportunity. The House Democrat leadership is the only 
thing standing in the way of passing the Protect America Act and 
securing and defending this Nation in only the way that we can now, 
with appropriate intelligence capability. We must do that and we must 
do that as soon as possible.
