# AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY LOAN BAILOUT
## `ae0d3b21fbc9af6a28018d98b52efa04`
`Mr. SESSIONS â€” 8 December 2008`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am worried about the process we have 
been undergoing here in the Senate in recent weeks, and I expressed 
that concern. I know Senator Dorgan indicated he voted against the $700 
billion bailout, and I did, too, for a lot of reasons, one of which was 
I thought it was unthinkable that the Senate, the one body in this 
Government that is supposed to look at the long-term effect of a piece 
of legislation on America, was stampeded. I think my colleague from 
Alabama, Senator Shelby, said we panicked and we threw $700 billion at 
one man, the Secretary of the Treasury, and basically allowed him to 
utilize it in any way he chose, although he told us explicitly that he 
desired to use it to purchase toxic assets--that is, bad mortgages--
from banks so those banks would not have the economic threat of a bad 
mortgage on their books and could be able to lend money and this would 
fix the financial crisis. There was a superhighway and a big truck 
laying across it, and all we had to do was get this truck off and the 
financial markets would be open again. Within a week or 2 weeks, 
Secretary Paulson had changed his mind. Directly contrary to what he 
told us he wanted to do, he bought stock in 10 banks at hundreds of 
millions of dollars, the likes of which this country had never seen 
before, and we never talked about that one bit in the Senate.

Mr. President, $700 billion is an incredibly large sum to commit this 
country to. I hope we will get most of it back. I do not believe we 
will get all of it back. I hope we at least get some of it back. But I 
would note to my colleagues that 5 years of the Iraq war cost this 
country $500 billion. In a few days, we authorized $700 billion. But it 
really was not just $700 billion because they had added in there a lot 
of pork items. This followed appropriations for $25 billion in loans 
for the automobile companies that was included in the Continuing 
Resolution in September, which was hardly even discussed. It was put in 
the bill, to my knowledge, with virtually no real discussion in the 
Senate about how to help them transition their plants to make more 
energy-efficient automobiles--just tacked it in there.

But you remember the fear if we didn't pass the bill the first day 
they brought it up. It had to be passed before the Asian markets opened 
the next day. It didn't happen. We went a week or 10 days later, and 
the world didn't collapse. We finally passed the thing, and a lot of 
people have doubts whether it has helped much at all.

Regardless, I just would say that this Senate has responsibilities to 
the taxpayers of America. When we are talking about tens of billions of 
dollars or hundreds of billions of dollars--the largest expenditure of 
funds on any one project in the history of this Republic, $700 
billion--we need to ask ourselves what this means. One of the things it 
means is that everybody else will want to get into the act. Before the 
ink was dry on that, here come the automobile companies.

Let me say briefly, Americans are going to have to think about this. 
After 9/11, we had a little stimulus package--it was little compared to 
the one we have now--but we sent out checks then. The economy was in a 
state of nervous exhaustion and a spasm of economic disturbance. Our 
deficit hit about $412 billion in 2002. I think that was the highest 
deficit in dollar terms this Nation had ever had. In the ensuing years, 
through fiscal year 2007, the deficit fell to $161 billion. Then, 
earlier this year, it was decided it would be a good idea to have 
another stimulus package, and we sent out these hundreds of dollars in 
checks to all Americans. It was about $100 billion, a little over $100 
billion. We just sent out the checks, and that was supposed to help fix 
the economy. In that economic slowdown, this September 30, when the 
fiscal year for 2008 budget was ended, the fiscal year, the debt was 
$455 billion--the deficit, for one year.

What is going to happen next year? Without counting the $700 billion 
as a loss to the Government, experts are now telling us the deficit 
will exceed $455 billion. It will exceed $1,000 billion--$1 trillion. 
But we have to pass another $34 billion or $15 billion, or whatever the 
number is, right now because we have to act. We cannot ask too many 
questions, we cannot have too much debate because things might happen 
fast, and if we do not act you will be blamed for a company failing. I 
wish to say that somewhere along the line this Senate is the body that 
is supposed to ask the questions and slow this train down and actually 
go through the details and figure out what to do.

But I know my good friend Senator Reid, who has the toughest job in 
Washington--they have all been meeting with the Banking Committee and 
the automobile industry and the White House and special interests and 
labor unions--all through the weekend, they say. They didn't invite me. 
They didn't invite a lot of other Members of this Senate. So today they 
plopped down a bill that is supposed to move forward with a temporary 
fix of $15 billion, and we are supposed to say thanks for saving us so 
much. One of our Members has said we have to do something in a hurry; 
we have 48 to 72 hours. Why 48 to 72 hours? We have plenty of time, if 
we want to, to work at this thing.

I know you have heard this statement, that bankruptcy is not a good 
way for the companies to go. Most people, when they think of 
bankruptcy, think of chapter 7 in bankruptcy, which is a liquidation of 
a company and its assets. All the people to whom that company owes 
money come in and line up, and the bankruptcy judge sells all the 
assets and parcels out what money is left--usually not very much--to 
those claimants.

But there is another very common bankruptcy procedure called chapter 
11; it is called reorganization in chapter 11. You have heard the 
phrase ''They sought protection in bankruptcy.'' If you file for 
bankruptcy under chapter 11, your company continues to operate. Delta 
Airlines--I flew them yesterday--Delta Airlines in 2005 was in 
bankruptcy for over a year. They came out of bankruptcy leaner, having 
confronted many of their difficulties. They actually bought Northwest 
Airlines. They are doing very well today. They didn't disappear. They 
didn't lay off all their workers. They


didn't shut the airline down, they continued to operate. The automobile 
companies, if they seek reorganization and protection under chapter 11, 
will then be in a position to confront their excessive legacy costs to 
deal with contracts that are pulling them down.

I think it was Mitt Romney whose father, in Michigan, was active in 
the automobile industry. He wrote an op-ed, and he calculated--others 
have used a similar figure, but I remember his--that an average 
American automobile is carrying a $2,000 legacy cost, the cost that is 
a burden on them and keeps them from being competitive in the 
marketplace. How do you get out of that? They say we will meet and we 
will talk about it and we will appoint a czar and that czar will make 
these companies concede these contractual provisions. But contracts are 
not something you have to concede. A contract is a binding document 
against the company or against an individual. An individual doesn't 
have to concede that contract, and many of them may not. Many of them 
will say: You guys can concede. You can cut your salaries, unions, but 
I am not cutting my health care benefits because I retired 10 years 
ago, and I still expect a health care benefit that exceeds 95 percent 
of the American workers' health care benefits today; I want mine kept. 
Who is going to make them give that up? It cannot be done voluntarily. 
What about a dealer and other groups, leaseholders who have claims 
against these companies? Why should they give up?

But in bankruptcy, the whole purpose is to create an environment in 
which a judge can make some decisions about what it is going to take to 
save the company, to save the jobs. The judge has the power to amend 
these contracts and to say: The only way this company is going to 
survive is you health care guys are going to have to give some; you 
salaried people are going to have to give some; you executives are 
going to have to give some; the dealers are going to have to give some. 
Otherwise, this company is going under. They have witnesses, they take 
testimony, and they all have the right to have their lawyer there and 
to present evidence. It is under oath, in detail, subject to cross-
examination. Certified financial statements have to be produced. All of 
these things happen in bankruptcy. At the end, a bankruptcy judge, 
after hearing all of these arguments, will have as his or her goal the 
creation of a bankruptcy order that will allow the company to operate 
and to keep operating, keep making cars. They will not have to stop 
making cars during this whole process. They will continue. But if 
people cannot make claims against them, they can't file lawsuits. All 
the lawsuits against the companies, if they can't pay their debts, are 
stayed. It all stops. Nobody can levy against any of the property until 
the bankruptcy judge says so. I am amazed we are not going in that 
direction. For some reason, it seems that certain interests are 
objecting to the normal course of how a company should go about dealing 
with financial problems.


I also believe a responsible Senate should be taken aback about the 
way this has all come about. First, $25 billion was slipped in to help 
these companies move to more fuel-efficient automobiles--that program. 
But the automobile executives came back a couple of weeks ago, about 2 
weeks ago, and they asked for $25 billion on top of that--$25 billion 
more. They say: Just take it out of the $700 billion. We are not able 
to access this $25 billion you have already set aside for us. We have 
to do certain things on environmental issues, and we are not able to 
access that now. So if we want to do that--and we need $25 billion. 
They flew in in their big jets. They didn't have any kind of coherent 
plan. Congress and the American people were aghast. They couldn't 
imagine this $25 billion.

My State of Alabama is about an average size State--4 million people; 
we have 7 Congressmen. As I recall, our basic budget for the State is 
$6 billion or so a year, and that includes education and everything 
else a State needs. So I would say to you, $25 billion or $34 billion 
is a lot of money.

These executives go home chastened, and their advisers whispered in 
their ears: You guys have to be humble. Don't you understand? You were 
too arrogant. You have to go up there--you can't fly. You have to drive 
up in your fuel-efficient automobile before you go back to Congress, 
and grovel a little bit, tell them you did something wrong. If you tell 
them you did something wrong and grovel and act humble, maybe you can 
get the money.

So what did they do? They came back and they groveled and they say 
they made mistakes and they are so sorry. They want $34 billion. How 
humble is that?

What the problem is--President-elect Obama said it: We want to make 
sure the money we are putting into this company is worth something. It 
is not supposed to be a gift, it is supposed to be a loan.

Once you start putting money in a sinking company, as any banker will 
tell you--they refer to it as putting good money after bad--the more 
money you put into a corporation, the deeper they have you. You are the 
one who is hooked. You are the one who is stuck now because you are in 
$25, $34, $50, $100. What about if we just have another $50 after this 
$100, and maybe we will make it. If you don't help us with another $50, 
you are going to lose the hundred--right? That is how these things go. 
That is the way bankers look at this situation, and they will not loan 
them the money. Bankers are not going to loan them the money because 
they are too worried about it. The numbers don't add up. Since the 
bankers will not loan them the money, they want to come to us and get 
us to loan them the money and take risks a reasonable banker would not 
take.

Somebody says: Maybe it will not be a lot more than that; maybe this 
will be enough. It is pretty clear that nobody says the $15 billion 
would be enough, what we are apparently going to be asked to look at 
with the bill that was just plopped down a little while ago. But at the 
Banking hearing last week, an independent analyst predicted that it 
would be $75 billion to $125 billion to avoid them going into 
bankruptcy.

So if they are going to go into bankruptcy, how much money do we need 
to help them avoid that? Well, this analyst said it would be $75 to 
$125 billion. That is a lot of money. Maybe they should go into 
bankruptcy first, and then maybe we could see what the real facts are 
and have a judge and a hearing and evidence taken and decisions made. 
Maybe tough decisions could be made and maybe the Government can help a 
little bit and help them come out of there and keep these companies 
going at a reasonable price.

So I would certainly like the competition. We certainly want these 
companies to be successful. But it has to be done consistent with the 
value and principles of America.

There is no reason for us not to assume that we are going to be asked 
for more and more money to keep these companies alive under the 
circumstances we are in today.

I would ask a couple questions then. First, what certainty do we have 
that they will not be asking for many times the amount of money that is 
being asked for today? I think we are virtually certain. We know there 
is more. Within the bill, I would note, is a statement that we are 
authorizing--it is not putting up the money yet, it is a big step 
toward it--we are authorizing the full replenishment of the $25 billion 
fuel efficiency loan program.

So the $15 billion that comes out, we are authorizing it, to put in 
more. The way the language is written, it is pretty clear that it goes 
further than that. What it does is it authorizes, on page 3, excuse me 
on page 11, the Secretary of Treasury--''is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Treasury sums as being necessary for 
the purpose of replenishing the funds available to the President's 
designee under this section.''

So first of all it says: Yes, we take the $15 billion out of the 
existing loan program, but we are putting it back in immediately. The 
$700 billion is not reduced, neither is the $25 billion we have already 
appropriated. Both of those have already been authorized and 
appropriated. We take this money out and we put every penny of it back 
in this same bill. A little slight of hand there; is it not? Sounds 
like it to me.

Then it goes on to have other language that indicates, the way it is 
written, it authorizes up to another $25 billion. So authorized in this 
bill, I think it is fair to say, based on our reading of it a few 
moments ago, since it just now appeared, that we are talking about 
$49.5 billion being authorized


for this problem. That is a lot of money.

It is somewhat different than the pitch that all we are doing is 
putting up $25 billion or $15 billion. And they are at least honest 
about this. They say the $15 billion is just a bridge loan, and that at 
least by March they will be back asking for more. How much more, $75, 
$125 billion, without once having to submit themselves to the rigors of 
a reorganization process that current law provides for big corporations 
and little ones in America under chapter 11.

Now, the legislation calls for the appointment of a car czar. That is 
what they are calling it. It says this about the car czar. The guy is 
supposed to be able to meet with these executives, many of whom have 
spent their lives in the automobile industry, and it is going to tell 
them that: This is not a good idea. This is a good idea. Yes, you can 
do that. No, you cannot do that. We will not give you money unless you 
do such and so and tell them how to run their business.

This is what it says on page 3, section 3:




 The President will designate one or more officers of the 


 Executive Branch, [a Federal Government bureaucrat] having 


 appropriate expertise in such areas as economic 


 stabilization, financial aid to commerce and industry, 


 financial restructuring, energy efficiency, and environmental 


 protection, to carry out the purposes of this Act, including 


 the facilitation of restructuring to achieve long-term 


 financial viability of the domestic automobile manufacturing 


 industry, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the 


 President.


Which means the new President will remove the one President Bush puts 
in, I presume, and put another one, or certainly have the authority to 
do so.




 This designee shall direct the disbursement of the bridge 


 loans or enter into commitments for lines of credit for each 


 automobile manufacturer that has submitted a request.


Well, does it say anything about the person that is going to tell 
these companies, you know, we are going to tell them how to do this 
right? What would you tell them? Would you tell them: We are never 
going to make anymore big pickups, cancel all SUVs, put all your money 
into hybrid cars. We do not know how well they are going to sell and 
how people are going to continue to buy them, but you can only use the 
money for these kinds of things.

That is a dangerous action for a politician to do. It is odd to me 
that the provisions of the act call for expertise in financial aid to 
commerce and industry, environmental protection and energy efficiency 
and not one requirement that the person knows anything about the 
automobile industry. I know I do not know much about it. I do know 
this. My father ran an International Harvester, a little town 
dealership, hardly made a living for us. I worked in his shop. I was a 
parts person in his office. He only had four or five employees. They 
squeezed him out because he was too small, lucky to get out with his 
shirt.

I was in high school. I remember that vividly. Well, certain things 
are not financially doable. He was not able to continue to operate an 
International Harvester truck and tractor dealership when he could only 
sell to so few customers, that he could not maintain the parts and the 
mechanics and the equipment necessary to maintain a viable business.

Things change. He did not ask for a bailout. So the person who is 
supposed to be working on this is not required to have any knowledge 
whatsoever of the automobile business but is going to tell them how to 
run it, apparently. It looks like, does it not, that this would give 
another unelected official the ''maximum flexibility'' to appropriate 
taxpayers' money as they see fit.

Is this not the same mistake we made with the Secretary of the 
Treasury when we gave him $700 billion to parcel it out to his friends 
on Wall Street, however he felt like giving it.

Now, the jobs bank, which is a very perverse problem the automobile 
industry has. It was an agreement they made that would pay employees up 
to 95 percent of their pay not to work. If they have been laid off, 
they get 95 percent of their pay. It defers health insurance payments. 
Unions have said they would make concessions. That has been touted 
about. But they were only temporary concessions that the union has made 
on this. I am not sure what power a union has to tell a company that 
you no longer have to pay an employee who agreed by contract to pay him 
95 percent of his salary. How can they abrogate that contract? You can 
do it in bankruptcy. You cannot do it by voluntary agreement.

So I have my doubts about how this can be fixed short of a 
bankruptcy. So I would ask: How can we reach an agreement that would 
bind the union or any other group that has contracts with the 
automobile industry to follow those agreements?

I ask this question, even supporters of the deal admit that a 
bankruptcy may still be needed in the end. So does not this 
multibillion dollar bailout just delay actual productive restructuring? 
Is it not just a delay? I am afraid it is. It absolutely is unless we 
put more than $15 billion in, because with $15 billion, everybody knows 
that is not going to be enough to keep them liquid throughout the next 
year. It is pretty well conceded. So are not we delaying the 
inevitable?

I would also add, experts agree that to be successful, everyone makes 
concessions, must make concessions. So what concrete steps does this 
legislation require of creditors, suppliers, unions or automobile 
dealers? It does not require any. I will answer that.


Also, the legislation calls for the development of a long-term 
structuring plan by the end of March. Doing so would require that 
various groups agree. Why do we think they will be able to accomplish 
this 3 months from now, when they have not been able to accomplish it 
in the last 3 months? How can these parties be forced to agree when 
they hold valid contracts for the automobile companies?

Now, as I indicated earlier, we are taking a big risk without 
ensuring that reform is going to occur that would make these companies 
viable. Everyone knows major restructuring needs to be done, that they 
need to emerge from this process, as I say, as Delta did from 
bankruptcy, chapter 11 reorganization, leaner, more competitive, 
keeping their employees, giving them a future, providing for their 
retirement and health care as they committed to do but to be able to 
shed unnecessary costs that had the danger of sinking the entire ship.

So we know that a banker today would not make a loan to these 
companies under these conditions of vague promises of improvement in 
the future. You think they are not telling their bankers: Oh, we are 
going to make progress, if you just loan us money. Companies know more 
than that. They want some assurance. We represent the taxpayers of 
America. Should we not be more concerned about the assurances too?

So we do have a regular order--I will conclude with this remark--a 
regular order in America. If a company gets to the point where they 
cannot meet their payroll, and they cannot pay all their debts, because 
they have a liquidity, a financial cash flow problem, the procedure is 
perfectly simply, you seek reorganization, you seek protection under 
chapter 11 in bankruptcy.

The company continues to operate, the employees continue to be paid, 
and, in fact, one of the highest, I believe the highest, priority of a 
bankruptcy judge is to see that the employees are paid. That is the 
first thing that comes with the limited money in a company that is in 
financial problems, is to pay the workers for their work, and 
throughout that process the company can be reorganized. Witnesses are 
under oath, can testify to the real facts that we in Congress have no 
capability of ascertaining, and they will be able to present evidence 
that sheds light on some of these matters. The unions would have their 
lawyers, the dealers would have their lawyers, the suppliers would have 
their lawyers and argue a case and a judge is going to have to say: Mr. 
Supplier, you are going to have to take 75 percent of what they owe; 
they cannot pay you the whole amount. We have to keep this country 
going. Mr. Union, you are going to have to accept less. Mr. Dealer, you 
are going to have to accept less. Then we will try to pay this back 
once we pare this company down and get it leaner and more efficient and 
more competitive and we are going to send it out there and we believe 
we can make this work.

But if you liquidate the company today, you are not going to get half 
of what you are owed. You are not going to get a fraction of what you 
are owed.


That is not the right thing. The whole motivation for a reorganization 
of procedure under chapter 11 would be to save the company, to save the 
jobs and save the industry. This Senate has no business trying to act 
as some sort of super bankruptcy judge in a reorganization. Our action 
in sending out money enables the continuation of bad behavior. It 
pretty closely approximates that psychological syndrome called enabler 
where the person who is drinking too heavily, instead of confronting 
the problem, the person's problem, you give them more money which 
allows them to continue to drink and they don't confront their problem 
and the problem continues to get worse.

It is time to confront the problem. Let's save this industry, and 
let's do so within the legal procedures the Nation has. And at some 
point if we can help them financially, let's do so. But we need to be 
sure, on behalf of the taxpayers, that we know exactly what the 
circumstance is, that a full examination of these companies has been 
undertaken. The idea of giving them billions of dollars based on a very 
poor statement of need is not acceptable to the people of the United 
States.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.