# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `ae9f42e456e5cbabed50f35f30eabfb5`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 16 May 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished speaker, 
chairman, and gentlelady from California.

I rise to offer and to support the en bloc amendments, and to speak 
particularly to amendment No. 23 which regards the emotional and 
financial impact of multiple deployments.

This amendment is simple. It requires the Secretary of Defense to 
study and report back to Congress the financial and emotional impact of 
multiple deployments on the families of those soldiers who serve 
multiple tours. We all are concerned about our soldiers and, likewise, 
their families.

In a report by Dr. Hoge, a study indicated that 94 percent of 
soldiers in Iraq reported receiving small arms fire, 86 percent of 
soldiers in Iraq reported knowing someone who has been seriously 
injured or killed, and 68 percent reported seeing dead or seriously 
injured Americans; 51 percent reported handling or uncovering human 
remains; and the majority, 77 percent of soldiers deployed to Iraq, 
reported shooting or directing fire at the enemy. All of this impacts 
their families, and we found anxiety, fatigue, stress, and other 
aspects that impact the wives and children as well.

The National Military Families have indicated a series of 
recommendations for the Department of Defense. I believe this study 
will help the entire entity of the military make us stronger and 
certainly respond to the needs of our military and their families.

My amendment No. 24 recognizes that in 1948 the military was 
desegregated; integration had increased the percentage of African 
Americans in the enlisted ranks. We see high numbers of Hispanics and 
Asians and others. This amendment simply acknowledges the existence of 
the ROTC scholarship and asks that there be an outreach to ensure that 
this information be given to Hispanic-serving institutions and African 
American-serving institutions, historically black colleges.

The importance of this amendment is to ensure the outreach and the 
opportunities for our young people who are placed around the Nation. 
Patriotism is certainly not guided by region or colleges to which you 
go. I ask my colleagues to support these amendments, one to take a 
holistic view of the redeployment and the impact on our families, and, 
two, to outreach to our young people no matter where they attend 
college and where they live for the established ROTC and other military 
scholarships.

I thank the chairman and ranking member for allowing me to explain my 
amendments to H.R. 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2008. There is no greater champion of our men and women in 
uniform than my good friend Mr. Skelton, the gentleman from Missouri, 
and distinguished chair of the Armed Services Committee. That is why I 
appreciate the chairman's support for my amendments.

Mr. Chairman, in light of the fact that our Nation is in the midst of 
an ugly war, and in the context of the ongoing fight against terrorism, 
this piece of legislation is probably the most important piece of 
legislation that the 110th Congress will pass. It is in that spirit 
that I offer my amendments today. Each of my amendments plays a vital 
role in ensuring that our courageous troops maintain their status as 
the best in the world. Accordingly my amendments also reinforce the 
message to our troops that they are our most precious resource, and we 
do not take their efforts for granted.








Amendment No. 24--Scholarships for HBCU students


This amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to take the 
necessary steps to ensure that Army National Guard and Reserve ROTC 
scholarships are available to students attending historically black 
colleges and universities, and Hispanic serving institutions.

The military is the American institution that has done more than any 
other to recognize that it does not have a person to waste. It is 
therefore no surprise that the Armed Forces of the United States, which 
were completely segregated 60 years ago and riven by racial strife 30 
years ago during the Vietnam war, is today the finest fighting force in 
the history of the world and enjoys more racial peace, harmony, and 
integration than any other major institution, including higher 
education and organized religion.

After being desegregated in 1948, by the 1970s, integration had 
increased the percentage of African-Americans in the enlisted ranks, 
but the percentage of minorities comprised less than 3 percent of the 
officer corps and perceptions of discrimination were pervasive. The 
deficiency in the officer corps and the discrimination perceived to be 
its cause led to low morale and heightened racial tension. The danger 
this created was not theoretical. As the Vietnam war continued, the 
Armed Forces suffered racial polarization, severe disciplinary 
problems, and racially motivated incidents in Vietnam and on posts 
around the world. In Vietnam, racial tensions reached a point where 
there was an inability to fight and the lack of minority officers 
substantially exacerbated the problem.

The absence of minority officers seriously threatened the military's 
ability to function effectively and fulfill its mission to defend the 
Nation. To eliminate that threat, the armed services moved aggressively 
to increase the number of minority officers and to train officers in 
diverse educational environments. The Pentagon set recruitment goals 
for the service academies and the ROTC programs and worked hard to 
expand the pool of highly qualified minority candidates in a variety of 
explicitly race-conscious ways. They also employ race as a factor in 
recruiting and admissions policies and decisions.

These efforts have substantially increased the percentage of minority 
officers. Today, among active duty officers, 81 percent are white, and 
the remaining 19 percent are minority, including 8.8 percent African-
American, 4 percent Hispanic, 3.2 percent Asian-American, and .6 
percent Native American. The military recognizes that its officer corps 
must continue to be diverse or the cohesiveness essential to the 
military mission will be critically undermined. After all, for people 
who fight wars to preserve the peace, it can be a matter of life and 
death.

Presently the military, unlike any other industry including corporate 
America and the entertainment industry, offers a realistic opportunity 
for young people of color and women to make career advancements. In an 
industry that truly judges you on merit and not the color of your skin, 
the military is a leader in the practice of diversity.

This amendment ensures that people of color and women continue their 
great legacy in the greatest military in the world.




 Amendment No. 23--Emotional and Financial Impact of Multiple 















Deployments


This amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to study and report 
back to Congress the financial and emotional impact of multiple 
deployments on the families of those soldiers who serve multiple tours 
overseas.

Words cannot explain the pain and the sense of pride that some 
families feel when they say good-bye to a loved one. Behind those brave 
smiles, hugs, and kisses is an undying and unnerving uncertainty about 
what can happen to a spouse, child, father, or mother. Depending on the 
extent of that soldier's injury, a family can suffer serious economic 
consequences as a result, not to mention the emotional impact of seeing 
a loved one in that state. Even under the best of circumstances, where 
a soldier serves multiple terms and returns with no major injuries, 
valuable time is lost between a parent and child and between spouses 
that can never be returned.

The mental health of our soldiers will have a lasting effect on not 
only these soldiers but their families as well. The current conflicts 
in Afghanistan and Iraq are the most continuous combat operations since 
Vietnam. Only one comprehensive study has examined the mental health 
impact of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and that was performed by 
Charles W. Hoge, MD. This study looked at the experience of soldiers in 
the war zone and symptoms of psychological distress. Soldiers in Iraq 
are at risk for being killed or wounded themselves, are likely to have 
witnessed the suffering of others, and may have participated in


killing or wounding others as part of combat operations. All of these 
activities have a demonstrated association with the development of 
PTSD. Dr. Hoge's study indicated that 94 percent of soldiers in Iraq 
reported receiving small-arms fire. In addition, 86 percent of soldiers 
in Iraq reported knowing someone who was seriously injured or killed, 
68 percent reported seeing dead or seriously injured Americans, and 51 
percent reported handling or uncovering human remains. The majority, 77 
percent, of soldiers deployed to Iraq reported shooting or directing 
fire at the enemy, 48 percent reported being responsible for the death 
of an enemy combatant, and 28 percent reported being responsible for 
the death of a noncombatant. Despite the extensive training and 
resilience that our soldiers are known for they are still human, and 
these traumatic events will have an impact on their lives.

As my colleague from Arizona, Gabrielle Giffords, mentioned this 
morning, one in five soldiers is suffering from depression, anxiety or 
stress. Likewise 20 percent face marital problems including divorce or 
legal separation from their spouse.

Military families need greater psychological, emotional, and 
organizational assistance according to the results of a new survey 
released March 28 of this year by the National Military Family 
Association, NMFA.

The study, ''Cycles of Deployment Report,'' which focused on the 
needs of military families, shows service members and military families 
are experiencing increased levels of anxiety, fatigue, and stress. In 
response, NMFA outlined recommendations for meeting these challenges 
amid multiple and extended deployments, increased rates at which 
service members are called upon for service, and the heavy reliance on 
National Guard and Reserve forces.

This report clearly shows the range of support programs for families 
has expanded since the start of the war on terror. However, multiple 
deployments and a high operations tempo mean different types of support 
are needed for families' continued success before, during, and after 
deployment. The survey results provide the Department of Defense a 
detailed roadmap for making sure families are taken care of during this 
important time.

Let me share with you some of the key findings from this study about 
the impact of deployment includes.

Almost half of respondents reported they have used or would use 
counseling services such as anger management classes and family 
counseling. Three quarters of those who stated they were better able to 
deal with subsequent deployments found counseling services to be 
helpful.

Two-thirds of military families surveyed did not have contact with 
their unit or unit network volunteer during the critical pre-deployment 
stage.

Less than one-half reported a consistent level of family support 
through the pre-deployment, deployment, and post-deployment phases. 
Seventeen percent reported no support was available.

Many respondents are concerned that volunteers who help families 
adjust to life during deployment and what to expect after the reunion 
are becoming fatigued and subject to ''burn-out.'' They stated that the 
leaders of unit family groups should be paid or have paid professional 
support personnel assigned.

Military family members with civilian jobs face pressure to avoid 
taking time off before, during, or after deployment. Sixty percent of 
military spouses are employed outside the home and many have either 
quit their jobs or are considering it.


Military families are worried about how the reunion will go with 
their deployed family member even as they are worrying about their 
service member's safety in the field. Unfortunately, many families are 
not taking advantage of specific return and reunion briefings and 
activities.

Many respondents expressed that when entering a second or third 
deployment, they carry unresolved anxieties and expectations from the 
last deployments. While they may have gained knowledge of resources 
available to them, respondents whose service member deployed multiple 
times reported being more fatigued and increasingly concerned about 
their family relationships.

Although challenged by the demands of deployment, families noted they 
are proud of their service member and their service to our country. 
They understand that family support is primarily their personal 
responsibility, but they expect ''The Military'' to provide support as 
well.

