# None
## `aeefefc5bbe70663fb196a32f72151ad`
`Mr. McDERMOTT â€” 29 April 2008`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, we owe a debt of gratitude to Dana 
Milbank at the Washington Post and to Hal Bernton at one of my hometown 
newspapers, The Seattle Times. These two journalists, writing almost 
exactly 4 years apart, have pierced the veil of secrecy this 
administration shamefully uses to hide the painful images of U.S. 
casualties in Iraq and the touching and patriotic farewells by loved 
ones.

On Sunday, April 18, 2004, Bernton wrote a story called: The Somber 
Task of Honoring the Fallen. This poignant story included the first 
newspaper pictures of caskets being loaded into a military airplane. 
The story, which I will enter into the Record, set off a firestorm, 
because the administration did not want anyone to see the grim reality 
of war--rows of flag-draped coffins inside a military plane to begin 
the last homecoming. And the civilian contractor who took the pictures 
was fired for sharing them with the media. They were published at a 
time when the administration was doing everything to make people 
believe in its May 1, 2003, Mission Accomplished banner.

The administration continues to spin the message from that phony PR 
event. To do that, the administration continues to hide the grim 
reality of the Iraq war. Last Thursday, Milbank wrote a story in the 
Washington Post called: What the Family Would Let You See, the Pentagon 
Obstructs. Almost 4 years later after The Seattle Times story, the 
American people are still denied access to the truth.

Behind me is a photograph of Lieutenant Colonel Billy Hall from the 
Post story. Let me read an excerpt from that story:

''The family of 38-year-old Hall, who leaves behind two young 
daughters and two stepsons, gave their permission for the media to 
cover his Arlington burial--a decision many grieving families make so 
that the nation will learn about their loved ones' sacrifice. But the 
military had other ideas, and they arranged the marine's burial 
yesterday so that no sound, and few images, would make it into the 
public domain.''

They don't want you to see the faces of our fallen heroes, and in my 
view that's outrageous. Lieutenant Colonel Hall is the highest ranking 
military officer to fall in Iraq. He went to Garfield High School in 
Seattle. He deserves to be buried according to the wishes of his 
family, not hidden from view, because the people running this war only 
want you to see the images that proclaim Mission Accomplished. I will 
not accept this disrespect for our soldiers and their families, or the 
outright distortion of the truth about the war. To honor our fallen 
heroes, I and many of my colleagues here in Washington have easels 
outside our congressional offices with pictures and the names of 
service men and women who have died in Iraq.

Outside my office, there are three boards with the photographs of 94 
soldiers from the State of Washington who have fallen in Iraq. Brave 
fallen heroes, including:

Specialist Christopher W. Dickison,

Major William G. Hall,

Lance Corporal Daniel Chavez,

1st Lieutenant Michael R. Adams,

Specialist Joshua M. Boyd,

Staff Sergeant Tracy L. Melvin,

Sergeant 1st Class Steven M. Langmack, all from Seattle.

I will enter into the Record the Web address where you can see the 
faces and the names of the fallen from every State:

http://projects.washingtonpost.com/fallen/search/
 Instead of helping to provide closure to these wounded families, the 
President's surrogates are deepening the wounds for these families. 
They only want to share their grief and the pride in their loved ones. 
Who wouldn't be proud of Billy Hall? They want to share that with us.

Today, in full view, let us honor the ultimate sacrifice made by 
Lieutenant Colonel Billy Hall and the fallen soldiers from Washington 
and across this country.















 Moment of Silence


I ask for a moment of silence in honor of the following:




 Sgt. Nathan P. Hayes, 21



 Staff Sgt. Juan M. Ridout, 29



 Lance Cpl. Cedric E. Bruns, 22



 Spc. Justin W. Hebert, 20



 Pfc. Kerry D. Scott, 21



 Spc. John P. Johnson, 24



 2nd Lt. Benjamin J. Colgan, 30



 Spc. Robert Benson, 20



 Sgt. Jay A. Blessing, 23



 Spc. Nathan W. Nakis, 19



 Sgt. Curt E. Jordan, Jr., 25



 Staff Sgt. Christopher Bunda, 29



 1st Lt. Michael R. Adams, 24



 Spc. Jacob R. Herring, 21



 Spc. Jeffrey R. Shaver, 26



 Pfc. Cody S. Calavan, 19



 Lance Cpl. Dustin L. Sides, 22



 Staff Sgt. Marvin Best, 33



 Spc. Jeremiah Schmunk, 21



 Capt. Gergory A. Ratzlaff, 36



 Sgt. Yadir Reynoso, 27



 Lance Cpl. Kane M. Funke, 20



 Lance Cpl. Caleb J. Powers, 21



 Sgt. Jason Cook, 25



 Sgt. Jacob H. Demand, 29



 Cpl. Steven Rintamaki, 29



 Staff Sgt. Michael Lee Burbank, 34



 Spc. Jonathan J. Santos, 22



 Staff Sgt. David G. Ries, 29



 Lance Cpl. Nathan R. Wood, 19



 Spc. Blain M. Ebert, 22



 Spc. Harley D. R. Miller, 21



 Pfc. Andrew M. Ward, 25



 Staff Sgt. Kyle A. Eggers, 27



 Pfc. Curtis L. Wooten III, 20



 Chief Warrant Officer Clint J. Prather, 46



 Maj. Steve Thornton, 46



 Cpl. Jeffrey B. Starr, 22



 Staff Sgt. Casey J. Crate, 26



 Sgt. 1st Class Steven Langmack, 33



 Lance Cpl. Daniel Chaves, 20



 Spc. Christopher W. Dickison, 26



 Lance Cpl. Shane C. Swanberg, 24



 Sgt. 1st Class Lawrence Morrison, 45



 Staff Sgt. Travis W. Nixon, 24



 Cpl. Joseph P. Bier, 22



 Staff Sgt. Christopher J. Vanderhorn, 37



 1st Lt. Jaime L. Campbell, 25



 Sgt. Charles E. Matheny IV, 23



 Staff Sgt. Abraham Twitchell, 28



 Spc. Eric D. King, 28



 1st Lt. Forrest Ewens, 25



 Pfc. Devon J. Gibbons, 28



 Sgt. Justin D. Norton, 21



 Pfc. Jason Hanson, 21



 Staff Sgt. Tracy L. Melvin, 31



 Spc. David J. Ramsey, 27



 Master Sgt. Robb G. Needham, 51



 Sgt. Velton Locklear III, 29



 Staff Sgt. Ronald L. Paulsen, 53



 Sgt. Lucas T. White, 28



 Spc. Jordan W. Hess, 26



 Maj. Megan M. McClung, 34



 Cpl. Jeremiah J. Johnson, 23



 Spc. James D. Riekena, 22



 Cpl. Darrel J. Morris, 21



 Maj. Alan R. Johnson, 44



 Sgt. Mickel D. Garrigus, 24



 Lance Cpl. Adam Q. Emul, 19



 Sgt. Corey J. Aultz, 31



 Sgt. Travis. D. Pfister, 27



 Spc. Ryan M. Bell, 21



 Spc. Joshua M. Boyd



 Staff Sgt. Casey D. Combs, 28



 Staff Sgt. Coby G. Schwab, 25



 Spc. Kelly B. Grothe, 21



 Pfc. Jerome J. Potter, 24



 Sgt. Dariek E. Dehn, 32



 Cpl. Llythaniele Fender, 21



 Pfc. Casey S. Carriker, 20



 Chief Warrant Officer Scott A.M. Oswell, 33



 Lance Cpl. Shawn V. Starkovich, 20



 Pvt. Michael A. Bologa, 21



 Cpl. Jason M. Kessler, 29



 Sgt. Bryce D. Howard, 24



 Spc. Matthew J. Emerson, 20



 Spc. Vincent G. Kamka, 23



 Lance Cpl. Jeremy W. Burris, 22



 Sgt. 1st Class Johnny C. Walls, 41



 Cpl. Christopher J. Nelson, 22



 Sgt. Phillip R. Anderson, 28



 Lance Cpl. Dustin L. Canham, 21



 Spc. Durrell L. Bennett, 22



 Lt. Col. William G. Hall, 38