# TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL GALEN JACKMAN
## `b0ad8ca03371b724379892e54638fbcd`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 8 July 2008`

---

 Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I wish to publicly commend and 
congratulate MG Galen B. Jackman, U.S. Army, upon his retirement after 
more than 35 years of military service. During the last 3 years, from 
July 2005 through July 2008, Major General Jackman served as the Army 
Chief of Legislative Liaison. He was instrumental in improving the 
understanding of Members of Congress and staff concerning a wide range 
of Army issues, in particular an understanding of the Army's role in 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the resource requirements for an army 
at war, and the effect of those wars on the Army and its soldiers and 
their families. Major General Jackman worked tirelessly to ensure that 
soldiers and Army civilians had the resources necessary to maintain the 
Army as the world's preeminent land service. He forged effective 
relationships with congressional Members and staff, always responding 
quickly and effectively to congressional requests for information and 
assistance, and has been an invaluable advisor to the Secretary and 
Chief of Staff of the Army.

General Jackman's assignment as Army Chief Legislative Liaison was 
the capstone to an outstanding career of service to our Nation. Prior 
to assuming this position, Major General Jackman served as the 
Commanding General, U.S. Army Military District of Washington and 
Commander, Joint Force Headquarters-National Capital Region, Fort 
Lesley J. McNair, Washington, DC. His other joint assignments include 
service as the Deputy for Training and Readiness, United States Pacific 
Command, and Director of Operations, United States Southern Command.

Major General Jackman served as the Chief of Staff and Assistant 
Division Commander, Support, for the 10th Mountain Division, Light, 
Fort Drum, NY, deploying with the Division in support of OPERATION 
JOINT FORGE, Bosnia-Herzegovina June 2000 to July 2001.

He began his service to our Nation in 1973 as a rifle platoon leader, 
Company A, 1st Battalion, Airborne, 508th Infantry, 82d Airborne 
Division, Fort Bragg, NC. His leadership positions include serving as a 
support squadron commander in 1st Special Forces Group, Airborne, Fort 
Bragg, NC; Commander, 2d Brigade, 7th Infantry Division, Light, Fort 
Ord, CA, and director, Combined Arms and Tactics Directorate, U.S. Army 
Infantry Center and School, Fort Benning. In his numerous leadership 
and command positions throughout his distinguished career, Major 
General Jackman demonstrated an unwavering commitment to the welfare of 
his soldiers and their families. Throughout his career, he played an 
important role in the development of the future officers and leaders of 
the Army.

Major General Jackman holds a master of science degree in procurement 
and contract management from the Florida Institute of Technology and a 
bachelor of arts degree from the University of Nebraska. He is a 
graduate of the Industrial College of the Armed Forces.

His outstanding Service has been recognized with numerous military 
awards including the Distinguished Service Medal, the Defense Superior 
Service Medal, with Oak Leaf Cluster; the Legion of Merit, with Oak 
Leaf Cluster; the Defense Meritorious Service Medal; and the 
Meritorious Service Medal, with 2 Oak Leaf Clusters. He proudly wears 
the Expert Infantryman Badge, the Master Parachutist Badge, the Air 
Assault Badge and the Ranger Tab.

Major General Jackman is married to the former Ms. Cathy Dowd. They 
have two children David, 20, and Patrick, 
18. David will be a senior at Gilford College this fall, while Patrick 
will attend Virginia Military Institute. I also congratulate them on 
their husband's and father's retirement from the Army. The demands of 
military life are such that military families also sacrifice and serve 
the Nation along with their soldier.

Mr. President, the Army, the Congress, and the Nation have benefited 
greatly from the service of such a great leader and soldier. He will be 
sorely missed.
