# DOING THE SENATE'S WORK
## `b106bb36272478e0246e6b3b1850318a`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 4 December 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, the last 2 weeks we have been back in our 
States visiting with our constituents and reporting to them on the work 
of the Congress. I did the same. I was in Texas traveling across our 
State. People would ask me almost everywhere I went what is happening 
in the Congress, and specifically the Senate. I am sorry to say I had 
to tell them: Not much is happening. Here we are, 2 months into a new 
fiscal year and we have yet to pass 11 out of the 12 appropriations 
bills that literally keep the lights on and instead are working on a 
continuing resolution, or on auto pilot based on last year's budget and 
appropriations bills.

I guess I was a little embarrassed to tell them that the approval 
ratings


which we have seen on the Rasmussen poll and others, the Gallup poll 
and others, appears to be well deserved. It is not a partisan matter. 
It is not that Republicans like what is happening and Democrats do not 
like what is happening, or vice versa, or independents like what we are 
doing. The fact is, no one seems to be satisfied. Given the 11 percent 
or so approval rating, I have to believe that in large part it is due 
to the fact that we simply have not taken care of our business.

Nowhere in the rest of America could people fail to do as much as we 
have failed to do in the Senate and survive. Whether it is your family 
budget or it is the small business, you could not get away with it. 
Only Congress can get away with it, I guess, to the extent it has, the 
failures and inaction.

There are two areas particularly I want to talk about in the next few 
minutes, where this has grave national security implications.

First, as Secretary Gates, the Secretary of the Department of 
Defense, has told us, if they do not get emergency supplemental funding 
for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, they are going to have to begin 
to give people notices that they are going to run out of money in 
February. But they have to issue the notices 60 days in advance, which 
means by December 15 there are going to be lots of folks who are going 
to be getting pink slips just in time for Christmas because the Senate 
has failed to act on an emergency supplemental request to fund our 
troops.

Frankly, I do not think we ought to be in that position. No. 1, it is 
completely inconsiderate of the families and the individual 
circumstances of those individuals who are doing their best to support 
our men and women in uniform.

Secondly, it is completely unnecessary. If we would simply take care 
of our business and quit playing political games by tying deadlines to 
the appropriation of emergency funds to support our troops, we could 
fund our troops and continue to have the debates here in the Congress 
about what our policy ought to be.

Those debates are important. I respect people with different opinions 
than mine. But we should not be doing it at the expense of our men and 
women in uniform or putting in jeopardy the jobs of people in civilian 
clothes who support our men and women in uniform, by tying the 
appropriation of this emergency funding to these deadlines to the 
emergency funding. I hope we will get this done and get it done 
quickly.

Also, we have, in fact, a middle-class tax increase getting ready to 
come into full flower with the so-called alternative minimum tax. 
Unless we act, the 6 million people who currently pay this tax today 
will grow to 23 million next year. So that is another victim, those 
taxpayers are another victim of our inaction and failure to act in a 
responsible way when it comes to getting our work done.

I want to join my colleague from Missouri, the ranking member of the 
Intelligence Committee, as well as my distinguished colleague from 
Arizona, and focus a little bit here in the next 5 minutes or so on the 
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.

As most Americans who have followed our debates here know, our 
ability to listen in on conversations between terrorists and to stop 
further terrorist attacks on our mainland and our homeland, as well as 
over in Iraq and Afghanistan, depends on a robust intelligence-
gathering capability.

The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act was a law passed back in 
1978, back in a different era, which served our purpose then and made 
sure that no intelligence gathering, no wiretaps could occur against 
Americans. But the fact is that law has needed updating, has been 
updated from time to time. But we need to make clear that when it comes 
to monitoring communications between terrorists and foreign nations, it 
is not necessary to prepare a mound of paperwork and have an army of 
lawyers process it through a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court in 
order to get a permit to do so.

We have, as we all know, passed a temporary measure which will expire 
in February. But we need to act on this permanently and not continue to 
jam all of our business into the last few weeks and put people in 
doubt, particularly in the intelligence community, of whether they will 
have the capability to detect and deter future terrorist attacks by 
employing this capability.

Before we passed a temporary patch, I think, in August--or before we 
broke for the August recess--because of a ruling by a judge and because 
of changes in technology, it had been reported in the press that we had 
lost about two-thirds of our intelligence-gathering capability. 
Fortunately, we were able to fix that on a temporary basis.

But there are also other important parts of this legislation such as 
how do we treat the telecommunications carriers that did what they were 
asked to do in the security interests of the American people and 
cooperated with the Federal Government? Are we going to provide them 
the legal protection they are entitled to under the law or are we going 
to hang them out to dry and make them liable for lawsuits and damages, 
perhaps, and jeopardize the intelligence that we have gained with their 
cooperation?

That is the wrong way to treat these telecommunications carriers. We 
ought to not reward them but at least do our duty with regard to these 
citizens, corporate and individual alike, who cooperated with the U.S. 
Government in gathering intelligence and not punish them by hanging 
them out to dry and making them the subject of numerous lawsuits and 
litigation.

Just one quick example: When Joseph Anzack was kidnapped by al-Qaida 
on May 12 while serving in Iraq and killed a few weeks later, you have 
to wonder if the paperwork that took roughly 10 hours to complete, 
along with a group of lawyers before an authorization to monitor 
communications which directly implicated his kidnappers would have 
saved his life. On that date, May 12, he and Alex Jimenez and Byron 
Fouty were kidnapped. But a 10-hour delay in getting the FISA paperwork 
done may have cost Joseph Anzack his life, and may have severely 
hampered the continuing efforts to find Alex Jimenez and Byron Fouty.

While the Protect America Act that passed in August, as I said, 
provided a temporary fix to the problem, it will expire in February. I 
just ask our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, why are we 
delaying the passage of this important fix to this temporary act? Isn't 
it important enough to make sure we do everything possible not to 
hamper our intelligence-gathering capability? We are, in fact, a nation 
at war, and we ought to act like it. That means arming our intelligence 
community with the tools they need to detect terrorist communications 
and to deter future terrorist attacks.

I know 9/11 seems like a long way off in the minds of many, and many 
have acted as if it never happened, but the fact is, unless we have 
robust intelligence-gathering capability, and unless the Senate acts 
promptly to permanently grant the power to our intelligence community 
to detect these communications, we are at grave risk, and we should not 
be as a result of Congress's inaction.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.