# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `b11650819e1d2bf991926f0e4da968be`
`Mr. BROWNBACK â€” 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I want to speak in favor of Judge 
Southwick and the nomination and would take up that 4 minutes.

A couple of quick points I want to make on this because the time is 
short, the hour is late, and I appreciate the Presiding Officer 
staying. I have met and I have gotten to know Judge Southwick. I have 
worked with him. I have seen him now through two Senates, the last 
Senate and this Senate. This is an honorable man. This is a good man. I 
think this is a smear campaign that people are trying to do on him, on 
a good man.

I think if he came up in different circumstances everybody would say: 
Why, absolutely he is the right person for it.

Part of the reason I say that is you look at the last Congress when 
he came up in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Judge Southwick 
came up in the last Congress, and he was unanimously approved by the 
Judiciary Committee, seen as a consensus nominee who should move 
forward. He has been through these parts before. Why is it he was 
unanimous last time around and now he is a controversial candidate? Why 
is it you are looking at 7,000 opinions and somehow now we found 
something in a couple of opinions but didn't find those last year when 
people were fly-specking it?

I think this is kind of a sign of the times and where we are and the 
President's time period and the President's approval ratings. He is in 
his last 2 years and people are looking and saying we don't want to get 
these many circuit court judges approved. But if you look at the 
record, this is not fair to this judge.

Look at the diversity issue. I just want to put a chart up on the 
diversity of the Fifth Circuit because that issue has been raised, the 
number of appointees to the Fifth Circuit. Under President Clinton and 
Bush: Women appointed under President Clinton, zero; President Bush 
appointed two; African Americans, one under Clinton, none under Bush; 
Hispanics, one under Clinton, one under Bush, and actually there was a 
third woman appointed under Bush. I don't think that stands the review 
and test of us being honorable and honest with what the situation is.

This is a judicial emergency situation. Senator Leahy has previously 
stated if a vacancy is deemed to be a judicial emergency, it should be 
addressed quickly. This is a judicial emergency, as determined by the 
nonpartisan Administrative Office of the Courts. They have declared the 
seat to which Judge Southwick has been nominated a judicial emergency.

Senator Leahy, for whom I have a great deal of respect and worked 
with on a number of additional issues other than this, has also said it 
is important whether the two home State Senators support the nominee. 
You have just heard from the two home State Senators who strongly 
support this nominee.

I think the criteria that have been previously set to fill a circuit 
court position have been met, in many cases even exceeded. Yet we have 
a controversy over a person who was seen, one Senate ago, one Congress 
ago, as a consensus candidate. This seems to be much more reflective of 
the time rather than the person, and I don't think that is meritorious 
of this body, to decide something on, OK, it is in this session of 
Congress rather than the prior session of Congress.

Here is an honorable, good man. If you have qualms with one of the 
nominees, fine. But let's make it a real set of qualms and let's not 
make it something that we invent this session, during this Congress, 
and try to take it out on somebody who is a good candidate.

Here is a person who served honorably in the military, even asked 
that his age be waived so he could join the Army Reserves at age 42. In 
2002, at the age of 53, he volunteered to transfer to a line combat 
unit that was widely anticipated to deploy to Iraq.

This is an honorable man. I urge my colleagues to actually look past 
the way he is being painted and look to the reality of the facts and to 
the longevity of his service and what he seeks to do and to vote and to 
support this nominee.

I yield the floor.
