# STATEMENT ON TERRORIST ATTACK AGAINST OUR LADY OF SALVATION CHURCH,  BAGHDAD
## `b12301ddf1f87de60197fef3bbba1580`
`Mr. BOEHNER â€” 18 November 2010`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to join the Obama 
Administration in condemning the recent terrorist attack against Our 
Lady of Salvation Church in Baghdad, which left more than 60 dead and 
another 75 wounded. In the most hideous of ways, we have been reminded 
of the enemy's desire to seek the death and destruction of anyone who 
opposes its attempt to impose a pernicious worldview.

This attack occurred during Sunday Mass, just as the congregation 
rose to recite, ''Upon this rock, I will build my church.'' As a 
Catholic, as someone raised to cherish life and defend its sanctity, it 
is difficult to contemplate the twisting of the human soul required to 
shatter that peace and commit such a senseless act. It's even more 
difficult to summon the restraint required to ease the trembling such 
hatred provokes.

The enemy keeps innocents of all faiths in its sights. In August, men 
and women affiliated with a Christian non-government organization 
working to provide eye care to people in remote and destitute areas of 
Afghanistan were executed in cold blood by the Taliban. In the last two 
weeks, a devastating and deadly bombing attack occurred during a 
worship service at a mosque in Pakistan. In the case of the recent 
cargo plane bombing attempt, the President indicated the bombing 
packages were addressed to Jewish synagogues in Chicago. These attacks 
are designed to bring division where there is diversity, and chaos 
where there is stability.

As time passes, as national debates and attention shifts, it is easy 
for the real horror and tragedy of the terrorist attacks of September 
11, 2001 to become faded and blurred memories. But the hateful ideology 
that drives these attacks, the global movement to reject Western 
culture and values and religion is still plotting, planning, and 
attacking where it can. We were wrong to ignore the warning signs in 
the 1990s, when we witnessed a steady escalation of attacks, which we 
treated as isolated incidents. As Americans, as keepers of the truth 
that ''He who gave us life, gave us liberty,'' we must spare no effort 
to protect people of all faiths who oppose radical Islamic extremists. 
Our vigilance in this regard must be perpetual and total.

As Christians, we are taught that suffering and disappointment can 
enlarge our hearts and make us more grateful for the blessings in our 
lives. In this season of thanksgiving, let us renew our gratitude for 
the brave men and women overseas standing guard in defense of our 
freedom and taking the fight to the enemy.
