# IRAQ
## `b130810c6f2f203f6d1bc602d21fbbe0`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I am honored today to join in a bipartisan 
initiative to introduce legislation based upon the recommendations of 
the Iraq Study Group. I proudly stand with my distinguished 
colleagues--you, Mr. President, as well as Senators Alexander, Bennett, 
Pryor, and Gregg--in affirming that this bill will offer a new way 
forward for the United States in Iraq.

The detailed recommendations contained in this bill offer a 
comprehensive blueprint for renewed diplomacy, restructured economic 
assistance, and a redeployment of U.S. military forces in Iraq to 
emphasize training and equipping of Iraqi security forces, conducting 
limited counterterrorism missions, and protecting our own forces.

These recommendations were issued in December 2006, over 5 months 
ago, but, if anything, their utility is even more apparent today.

Our troops should not be refereeing a civil war. And so this Congress 
and the President must come together--must come together--to form and 
to forge a new path. The Iraq Study Group's final report is the only 
comprehensive plan on the table to do that.

I approach this bill from a slightly different perspective than some 
of my cosponsors. In fact, I cosponsored the Reid resolution to change 
our direction in Iraq, with a goal of completing that redeployment no 
later than March of 2008. That position has been reflected in the votes 
I have cast, the questions I have asked as a member of the Foreign 
Relations Committee at hearings, and the statements I have delivered on 
the Senate floor. I strongly opposed the President's decision to 
escalate the number of combat troops in Iraq. For that reason, I voted 
for the first supplemental bill sent to the President's desk which 
called for a more restricted U.S. military mission and a phased 
redeployment of our combat forces from Iraq.

A majority of Congress has made clear their desire to change course. 
Yet unless we achieve a more bipartisan consensus in the Congress that 
change is necessary, an impasse will continue and our troops will 
continue to pay the price. It is for that reason I believe the Iraq 
Study Group's prescribed course of action represents our best hope for 
a bipartisan consensus in an approach to wind down this combat role in 
Iraq and successfully transition our mission there.

The members of this Iraq Study Group included foreign policy and 
military experts, as well as other distinguished Americans with 
impressive experience in public service.

There is no challenge greater than determining how the United States 
can salvage our effort in Iraq in a manner that protects our core 
national interests, that does right by the Iraqi people, and enables 
our troops, who have accomplished every mission they have been given 
over the past 4 years, to come home finally.

After months of study and focused deliberations with almost 200 
experts, including leading U.S. and Iraqi Government officials and 
regional scholars, the Iraq Study Group released last December a 
detailed report with 79 recommendations. This report prescribed a 
comprehensive diplomatic, political, and economic strategy that 
includes sustained engagement with regional neighbors and the 
international community in a collective effort to bring stability to 
Iraq.

There are a few recommendations in the Iraq Study Group report that 
I, in fact, disagree with personally. But the comprehensive plan put 
forth by the group, and particularly the elements emphasized in our 
bill, represents the best thinking we have on how to resolve the Iraq 
dilemma in the long run.

Time is running out to change course in Iraq. In Pennsylvania, 166 
men and women have died. Yesterday we learned 9 Americans were killed 
in a series of attacks across Iraq. Meanwhile, we continue to search 
for two American soldiers taken hostage, and at the same time we hear 
the grim news that the body of a third missing U.S. soldier was 
identified yesterday.

It is time for a change, and I know of no more detailed proposal, no 
more exhaustively researched set of recommendations and findings and no 
more comprehensive solution than that offered by the Iraq Study Group. 
This bill, brought forward by a bipartisan group of Senators, with a 
diverse set of perspectives and opinions, transforms the 
recommendations of this group into the declared policy of the U.S. 
Government.

This bill offers our best chance to forge a change of direction at 
long last in Iraq and to do so in a fashion that, indeed, brings our 
Nation together.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.