# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `b1676fb6d5453226bb074f12f1950b6b`
`Mr. SANDERS â€” 16 January 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, today I am introducing the Global Warming 
Pollution Reduction Act of 2007. There are many critically important 
issues that we face, including education, health care, the growing and 
inexcusable economic inequality in this country, and the situation in 
Iraq. Among these issues has to be the threat faced by the earth itself 
due to global warming and that is why this legislation is the first 
bill that I am introducing as a U.S. Senator.

The Global Warming Pollution Reduction Act, the full text of which I 
ask be included in the Record following my remarks, was initially 
introduced last year by the Senator whose seat I currently hold, 
Senator Jim Jeffords. Jim's leadership in offering a forwardthinking 
global warming bill is known by all in this chamber and I am honored to 
continue his efforts by introducing this tremendously-important 
legislation today.

This bill, is being cosponsored by many of my esteemed colleagues and 
I would like to recognize them this morning: Senator Boxer, chairman of 
the Environment and Public Works Committee; the Senior Senator from the 
great state of Vermont, Mr. Leahy; both Senators from New Jersey, Mr. 
Lautenberg and Mr. Menendez; Senators Reed and Whitehouse, both from 
Rhode Island; the Senate delegation from the State of Hawaii, Senators 
Inouye and Akaka; and Senator Feingold of Wisconsin and Senator Kennedy 
of Massachusetts. I appreciate the support of these colleagues in 
focusing attention on the most important environmental issue of our 
time and urge my other colleagues to join in this effort.

I am also proud that the Global Warming Pollution Reduction Act has 
the support of numerous national groups, including the Earth Day 
Network, Earthjustice, Environmental Defense, Environmental & Energy 
Study Institute, Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace, League of 
Conservation Voters, National Audubon Society, National Environmental 
Trust, National Wildlife Federation, Natural Resources Defense Council, 
Physicians for Social Responsibility, Public Citizen, Sierra Club, 
Union of Concerned Scientists, and US PIRG.

The Global Warming Pollution Reduction Act is based on the scientific 
evidence and consensus that global warming poses a significant threat 
to the United States and the world. In fact, with our national 
security, our economy, our public health and welfare, and our global 
environment at stake, we must do nothing short of taking bold action. 
To that end, I am proud that last week the Vermont state legislature 
began 3 weeks of hearings on global warming. Like Americans across the 
country, they want action to fight global warming and they wish their 
Federal Government would step up and provide leadership commensurate 
with the magnitude of the threat. Well, Mr President this bill answers 
those pleas for leadership.

Grassroots support for action on global warming is clear. Over 300 
mayors have committed their cities to meeting the standards described 
in the Kyoto Protocol. In fact, with over 54 million citizens 
represented, the U.S. Mayors Climate Protection Agreement provides 
clear evidence that everyday citizens--unlike some large corporations 
who have continually misrepresented the science of global warming--want 
to see movement on this issue. Additionally, a group of northeast 
States, including Maine, Connecticut, Delaware, New Hampshire, New 
Jersey, New York, and Vermont, have already implemented a regional 
effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other northeastern 
States, such as Maryland and Massachusetts, are likely to join this 
group soon. And, we all know that the State of California has 
recognized the need to act on global warming and is moving forward with 
a tremendous program.

Despite the increasing calls for action, for years, the Bush 
administration has turned a deaf ear as the scientific community warned 
us of the problem of global warming and the disastrous impact it will 
have on our planet. Sadly, many of these predictions are now becoming a 
reality.

Global concentrations of greenhouse gases are incredibly high. In 
fact, the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gases has risen to 
378 parts per million--a level unseen during anytime over the past 
400,000 years. Additionally, on a global scale, 8 of the 10 years 
between 1996 and the end of 2005 are among the warmest 10 years on 
record and experts at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration have just logged 2006 as the hottest year on record for 
the U.S. Also, the National Center for Atmospheric Research suggests 
that the majority of the ice caps of the Arctic Ocean will melt by the 
summer of 2040--decades earlier than previously expected. And, the 
situation has become so dramatic that the Department of the Interior 
recently suggested listing polar bears on the endangered species list 
because their habitat is quite literally disappearing. We are also told 
to expect changes in agriculture and water systems, new threats to our 
health, and more extreme weather patterns including more intense 
hurricanes. All of this is due to global warming caused by the carbon 
dioxide and other greenhouse gases that are released into our 
atmosphere when we burn fossil fuels.

The good news is that we know how to stop continued global warming--
we simply need the political will to make it happen. The time is now 
for bold action that will move our country away from fossil fuels such 
as coal, gas, and oil towards efficient, sustainable energy sources 
like wind, solar, bio-mass and hydrogen. The bill I introduce today 
recognizes the urgency of our circumstances and sets targets for 
reduction of U.S. emissions to help stabilize global atmospheric 
concentrations of greenhouse gases below 450 parts per million, a 
critical level as recognized by leading climate scientists. More 
specifically, this legislation calls for an 80 percent decrease--
compared to 1990 levels--in global warming pollutants by 2050 by 
enacting a combination of mandatory reduction targets and incentives 
that will help develop clean alternative energies.

The concept is simple. By putting our minds to it, we can usher in a 
new era of nonpolluting, renewable energy sources. And, what makes this 
proposal even more exciting is its potential to reshape our economy and 
make the United States a leader in clean and efficient energy 
technologies--creating millions of good paying jobs in the process.


In fact, it is a lack of bold vision that will financially cost us. 
In October of 2006, Sir Nicholas Stern, a former chief economist of the 
World Bank, turned the old economic arguments against taking action on 
climate change on their head. In a report to the British government, he 
writes that bold action to combat the threat of global warming will in 
fact save industrial nations money and that inaction could cost between 
5 to 20 percent of global gross domestic product. Speaking to the issue 
in no uncertain terms, the report states, ''If no action is taken we 
will be faced with the kind of downturn that has not been seen since 
the great depression and the two world wars.''

To be quite frank, the time for talk is over. It is time for action 
and introduction of this bill signals my commitment to pushing for such 
action.

While I ask unanimous consent that Senator Jeffords' full statement 
from last year on this important bill be included following my remarks, 
I want to read two excerpts from those remarks:




 Global warming is real and it is already happening. Its 


 effects are being felt across the globe and the longer we 


 delay, the more severe these effects will be.


He went on to say,




 In my final year in the Senate, I have often asked myself, 


 ''What lasting actions can I take to make the world a better 


 place?'' I hope that by proposing real action on climate 


 change, and passing the torch to a new generation of those 


 committed to protecting the environment, that I can help make 


 a difference for us all.


I couldn't be more honored to carry on Senator Jeffords' vision on 
behalf of Vermonters and all Americans.

In closing, a country that represents only 6 percent of the world's 
population but produces 25 percent of its


greenhouse gas emissions, the United States has a moral obligation to 
lead the way toward reducing these emissions. For the sake of our 
children and grandchildren, we must meet that obligation. This 
legislation will put us on the right path to do so.

I ask unanimous consent that the material be printed in the Record.