# ELECTRONIC MESSAGE PRESERVATION ACT
## `b1b4410f513d3011a753a0b4254d87c9`
`Mr. HODES â€” 9 July 2008`

---


Mr. HODES. I thank my distinguished colleague, Mr. Clay, for his 
leadership along with Mr. Waxman on this bill.

I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5811, the Electronic Message 
Preservation Act. My colleague from Virginia has said that the 
Archivist suggests that the requirement for certification under this 
bill is unprecedented. Well, this bill is filed, in part, as a response 
to White House practices that have been unprecedented and show clearly 
the need for this legislation. The documents, which include e-mails, 
correspondence, memos produced by an administration belong not to the 
President but to the people of the United States.

This bill will help ensure that these records are preserved properly 
for our future generations, and more importantly, this bill will help 
lift the veil of secrecy that has fallen over our government under this 
administration.

Every day the President and his staff generate thousands of documents 
on the issues confronting our Nation. These documents contain important 
insights into the way that our government is making decisions that 
affect our lives. Why are those decisions being made? Who benefits? Who 
gets to influence our government leaders?

We have serious concerns about the way the White House is preserving 
these documents, or not preserving them, and whether the true purpose 
of not preserving them is to hide the dealings from the American 
people. Through the investigations by the House Oversight and 
Government Reform Committee, we have learned that the White House lost 
hundreds of days of e-mail records between the years 2003 and 2005. 
Additionally, it appears that senior officials in the White House have 
been found to be skirting the historical record laws by using an e-mail 
system provided by the Republican National Committee for most of their 
e-mail correspondence.

For example, Karl Rove, former Deputy Chief of Staff, is said to have 
used the RNC system for 95 percent of his e-mail correspondence to 
which the American people will never have access. Under the 
Presidential Records Act, the President has the sole authority to 
manage his records during his time in office. The General 
Accountability Office found that this administration did not keep 
records as it was required to.

So the question becomes: What were they trying to hide? It is no 
surprise that the administration that leaked Valerie Plame's covert 
identity and organized propaganda to promote a war in Iraq is evading 
record-keeping practices to hide information from the American people. 
This is arguably partisan politics at its worse, and the only remedy is 
more accountability and more sunshine. The Electronic Message 
Preservation Act will help to make sure that these important records 
are kept and help shine light on what our government is doing and why.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to enter for the Record a letter supporting 
this legislation that brings accountability back to the White House. 
The letter was signed by a number of groups that advocate for an open, 
transparent government, including the Government Accountability Project 
and openthegovernment.org.

Mr. Speaker, the Bush administration has been one of the most 
secretive and least transparent and most closed in American history. We 
still don't know what was said in closed-door meetings with Big Oil 
executives to set our energy policy, and today, we suffer from record-
high gas prices. The secrecy in the White House has prevented officials 
in the White House from being held accountable to the American people.

The Electronic Message Preservation Act will reform White House 
record keeping and allow the American people to have confidence that 
future administrations will not be able to hide the truth from the 
people of this country or from history.



























 July 9, 2008.


 Hon. Henry Waxman


 Chair, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 




 House of Representatives, Washington, DC.



 Dear Chairman Waxman: We are writing to support the passage 


 of H.R. 5811, the Electronic Message Preservation Act.



 Investigations and reports by your Committee and by several 


 nonprofits document the significant deficiencies in the 


 preservation of e-mail by the federal government. H.R. 5811 


 directs the Archivist of the United States to establish 


 standards for the capture, management, and preservation of 


 White House e-mails and other electronic communications and 


 to issue regulations requiring agencies to preserve 


 electronic communications in an electronic format. This 


 legislation demonstrates that Congress is paying attention to 


 this serious issue, and taking steps to begin addressing the 


 systemic problems with electronic records in general and 


 electronic communications records that the federal agencies 


 and the White House have failed for too long to address.



 Thank you for your leadership on this critical aspect of 


 government management and accountability. We look forward to 


 working with you on this and other issues in the future.





 Sincerely,




 American Association of Law Libraries, American Library 





 Association, Association of Research Libraries, Common 





 Cause, Essential Information, Freedom of Information, 





 Oklahoma, Government Accountability Project (GAP), 





 iSolon.org, Liberty Coalition, National Coalition 





 Against Censorship, National Coalition for History, 





 Mine Safety and Health News, and Minnesota Coalition on 





 Government Information.




 Mississippi Center for Freedom of Information, National 





 Freedom of Information Coalition, National Security 





 Archives, National Press Club, 9/11 Research Project, 





 Open TheGovernment.org, Peacefire, People For the 





 American Way, Project on Government Oversight (POGO),







 ReadtheBill.org Foundation, Society of Professional 





 Journalists, and Washington Coalition for Open 





 Government.
