# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `b20caf20f41ad69af9ffecd38ba5c8e7`
`Mr. KING of New York â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. KING of New York. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge the defeat of this supplemental 
appropriation. It is wrong in so many ways. And I say that as someone 
who strongly believes that the war in Iraq is the central front in the 
war against terrorism. I say that, and I see my colleague here, Mr. 
Fossella, someone who lost hundreds of friends and neighbors and 
constituents on September 11. And I also say that as someone who says 
this supplemental is sending all the wrong possible signals. It is 
sending the wrong signal to General Petraeus. It is sending the wrong 
signal to our troops. And probably most importantly of all, it is 
sending the wrong signal to the enemy. It is telling them that we in 
the Congress think there should be 535 commanders in chief, 535 
commanders in the field; telling the enemy that they have 60 days to 
create whatever chaos and carnage and confusion they can to influence 
the media, to influence those here in the House who are looking for an 
excuse to cut off funding for the troops.

If we have a Commander in Chief, a commander in the field, they 
should be given the ultimate power and authority to prosecute the war. 
If the Democrats want to make this their war, that is one thing, but 
this should be above politics. It is not a political issue. It is not 
something that should be gauged on public opinion polls. It should be 
based on what is right for America. And whether it is a Democrat 
President or a Republican President, the President is the Commander in 
Chief.

The United States Senate approved General Petraeus by a unanimous 
vote. To send him over there and then to undercut him, to cut off his 
legs when he is trying to carry out a policy which is showing signs of 
work. I am not a general. I am not the commander, but if you look at 
what is happening in Anbar province, what is happening in Ramadi, what 
is happening in parts of Baghdad, give General Petraeus the 
opportunity. Give our troops the opportunity. Don't be grandstanding. 
Don't be playing to the crowd. Don't be caving into your left wing base 
which is right now driving you. You have gotten yourselves into a hole, 
and you cannot get out of it. Our troops should be above that.

Have concerns for our troops, but most importantly, respect the 
Constitution. Allow the President and his commanders to prosecute the 
war. He was elected; General Petraeus was confirmed by the Senate. 
Everyone knew that he had to plan for a surge. To undercut him now is 
wrong. It is morally wrong. It is politically wrong, and it is going to 
bring shame on the House of Representatives.