# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `b21e7ddbbf533d4fb2d610feaf474b27`
`Mr. HALL of New York â€” 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Mr. Speaker, today, the House took an important 
step to restore accountability to our involvement in Iraq by passing 
H.R. 2740, the MEJA Expansion and Enforcement Act of 2007. This bill 
serves an important purpose by bringing previously unaccountable 
private security contractors under the rule of U.S. law.

By some estimates there are nearly 50,000 private security personnel 
working in Iraq. These contractors operate largely outside U.S. and 
Iraqi law, and episodes of significant contractor misconduct raise 
animosity toward Americans in the field and lose us hearts and minds in 
Iraq.

The activities of one of the most prominent contractors, Blackwater, 
highlight why they are a counterproductive influence in Iraq and their 
activities must be curtailed. Two weeks ago, Blackwater personnel 
guarding a State Department group were involved in a shootout that 
resulted in the deaths of as many as 17 Iraqis. Yesterday, the 
Government Reform Committee disclosed that Blackwater has been involved 
in 195 escalation of force incidents since 2005 and in 80 percent of 
those Blackwater fired the first shots.

These incidents combined with a host of other abuses clearly indicate 
that we need to stop putting contractors in Iraq and bring those there 
under control. That's why I was proud to cosponsor and vote for the 
MEJA Expansion and Enforcement Act to bring these contractors under 
U.S. jurisdiction if they commit criminal acts. Only by holding these 
contractors accountable can we actually begin to restore our standing 
in the world and win hearts and minds in Iraq.

During consideration of this bill, the House of Representatives 
considered a motion to recommit forthwith that stated, ''Nothing in 
this Act shall be construed to affect intelligence activities that are 
otherwise permissible prior to the enactment of this Act.''

I am an ardent supporter of our efforts to combat terrorism, prevent 
terrorist attacks, and bring terrorists to justice. I want our 
intelligence community to have all of the tools it needs to accomplish 
these tasks, and believe it can be successful in doing so within the 
rule of law. Some of my proudest votes on this floor have been to give 
our government new tools to fight terrorism and keep Americans safe. 
However, for the following reasons I could not in good conscience vote 
for this motion to recommit forthwith.

It is often said that, ''the devil is in the details.'' In this case, 
I fear the level is in the lack of details. The drafting of this 
legislative language is extremely vague, and I have serious 
reservations about the scope of its impact. It seems that this language 
could be interpreted to provide legal cover to abuses committed by 
contractors, like those at Abu Ghraib, that undermine our national 
security and are contrary to the founding principles of our nation. On 
a day when the New York Times has reported at length on the concerted 
efforts of the Administration to twist the law to make practices like 
freezing and water-boarding legal, I could not support language that 
could be manipulated to provide cover for such illegal and 
counterproductive acts.

I am doubly skeptical of this language because if it was not meant to 
provide cover for questionable acts, it would not be necessary. The 
MEJA Expansion and Enforcement Act does not make any previously legal 
acts illegal, it simply extends the jurisdiction of U.S. law. 
Previously uncovered contractors would not be impeded in their work if 
they were acting and continue to act in accordance with the law.

For these reasons, I voted to support the MEJA Expansion and 
Enforcement Act and voted against the motion to recommit forthwith.