# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `b2b10c463f43b44aeac40179e531dab0`
`Mr. DICKS â€” 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. DICKS. Mr. Speaker, the House of Representatives today is faced 
with a regrettable decision on the eve of the adjournment of the first 
session of the 110th Congress. With the appropriations bills that fund 
the routine operations of all of the departments and agencies of the 
Federal Government now approved by both Houses of Congress, we are once 
again being asked to provide additional funding for the ongoing 
military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The House has already 
expressed its view on this question when we voted on November 14th to 
approve $50 billion in supplemental defense funding with three very 
clear and very reasonable conditions: that our troops should be 
properly trained; that our forces will not use torture when conducting 
interrogations of enemy combatants; and, that we should establish a 
goal of redeploying all offensive troops from Iraq by the end of 2008. 
It would have been easy--and appropriate--for the President to sign the 
bill that was approved by a majority of the Members of this House and 
supported by a majority of Americans, rendering the debate we are 
having today unnecessary. The President has remained stubbornly 
determined to continue our involvement in Iraq without clearly defining 
a plan for the eventual re-deployment of our troops, and he has stated 
his intention to veto any legislation that attempts to change the 
course he has set.

After more than 4/1/2/ years, it is clear that our Nation's 
involvement in Iraq has cost far too much. It has cost the lives of 
nearly 3,900 men and women in our military and it has affected the 
lives of many thousand more who have been seriously wounded--both 
physically and psychologically. It has cost at least $450 billion in 
national debt to date, with hundreds of billions more in future costs 
that will be incurred no matter how quickly we are able to extricate 
ourselves. It has also seriously diminished our military readiness and 
our ability to respond to other national security threats. And finally, 
our initial invasion and our protracted involvement in Iraq has 
diminished our international prestige and made it more difficult for 
the United States to exert leadership and influence around the globe.


It is against this backdrop that we in Congress have been working 
toward a strategy of timely redeployment of our troops that I believe 
is both militarily appropriate and necessary for encouraging the Iraqi 
government to assume greater control of the security of the Iraqi 
people. It was discouraging to me on our visit to Iraq last month led 
by the Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Congressman 
Jack Murtha, that the Iraqi government has clearly not taken advantage 
of the improved security climate, brought about largely by the 
increased numbers of U.S. troops in Iraq during this past year. 
President Maliki and his government have not taken the steps they 
pledged to take in national reconciliation, in the distribution of the 
oil revenues or in several other key benchmarks that were established 
as indicators of progress.

On the face of it, the provision that has been sent to us by the 
Senate appears to be strictly about providing funds for the military 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is true that these funds would 
ensure that the soldiers, marines, sailors and airmen in harm's way are 
protected and continue to have the equipment, the supplies, the fuel, 
and the transportation resources that keeps them fed, repairs their 
equipment, treats their medical needs, and allows them to continue to 
operate. The reality, however, is that these funds will necessarily 
have an impact on our entire military. Because of the immediate need to 
protect troops in wartime conditions, all of the men and women in 
uniform--as well as the civilian workforce of the Defense Department--
are caught in the position of having to curtail important operations 
that underpin the very readiness of our forces, not just for Iraq, but 
for all aspects of our nation's defense.

The Army is on the leading edge of these impacts with installations 
across the country already having been notified to prepare for 
curtailing operations in the middle of February. The Army can keep 
going that long only by accelerating spending regular operations funds 
intended to last for the entire year, and by reprogramming other funds 
to the maximum allowed in law. If no further action is taken on this 
funding, the Army intends to furlough as many as 100,000 civilian 
employees and a comparable number of contractor personnel. In addition, 
it will sharply reduce travel, training, maintenance and child care and 
other day-to-day activities at installations across the Nation. And we 
know that the Marine Corps is close behind the timing of the Army in 
experiencing these impacts, all of which will exacerbate the level of 
readiness already diminished by our long involvement in Iraq.


So it is frustrating for me and for many Members of this House to be 
presented with the Hobson's choice that we have before us today: 
whether to impose a terribly chaotic situation on the entire U.S. 
military or whether to approve another substantial increment of funding 
for the Iraq war without any clear and well-articulated strategy for 
the eventual re-deployment of American troops. We are presented with 
this choice by a President who is unwilling to consider any change 
whatsoever in our strategy in Iraq and who has clearly not listened to 
the will of the American people or the views of their representatives 
here in Congress.



I have reluctantly concluded at this point that a vote to deny these 
funds now could potentially harm the troops in theater and could 
seriously diminish the condition of all of our military forces who 
still face other threats around the globe. Out of a responsibility to 
the men and women in uniform, to their families, to the civilian 
workforce in DOD and to our Nation's overall security, I intend to vote 
in favor of this resolution.

At the same time, it is my intention to continue working with what I 
believe is a growing majority here in Congress and a solid majority in 
the country to advocate for a major change in the direction of our 
policy in Iraq, and for the prompt re-deployment of the U.S. troops 
currently stationed in Iraq.