# REAUTHORIZING RADIO FREE ASIA
## `b2c9e74948cf995a6fcc47b50caf3052`
`Mr. ROYCE â€” 23 September 2009`

---


Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate that. I rise in support of this 
bill. I just want to take a moment here to thank Chairman Berman and 
also Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen for their assistance in moving this 
bill so expeditiously to the floor. There is a timing issue here. We 
need to pass this out soon, and this, of course, will allow us to 
broadcast for an additional year. September 30 is the day on which this 
authority will expire. I wish we could do more. I do.

Earlier this year, as you know, Chairman Berman passed a State 
Department authorization bill out of this House that would have 
established permanent authority for RFA. The other body, the Senate, 
has yet to take up this legislation. We wish they would.

We can debate the merits of a long-term extension versus sunset 
repeal, but there is one thing certain in all of this, and that is that 
the target countries that we broadcast into, countries like North Korea 
and China, like Burma and Vietnam, they give no indication of allowing 
a free local press any time soon.

At a practical level, I understand that RFA's sunset restriction has 
hampered RFA's operations. It hampers the ability to go out and hire, 
obviously, on a permanent basis. You can't negotiate a lease or capital 
improvements and so forth. So it is important that we address this 
issue.

I think it is important that we focus on the success of Radio Free 
Europe-Radio Liberty and Radio Free Asia. Radio Free Asia was founded 
in 1996, and it attempts to replicate what RFERL did in Eastern Europe. 
Its mission is to act as a surrogate news service, performing as a free 
press would if it was allowed to operate in any of these countries. 
Quite simply, its broadcasts are devoted to the enlightenment of 
people, to letting people know what is actually happening in their 
country and around the world.

My interest in these broadcasts stems from a trip I took to Dresden, 
East Germany, years ago, where a man told me about the damage that 
these broadcasts were inflicting on Soviet tyranny and shared with me 
the effect that they seemed to be having, an effect without firing a 
shot, an effect in which the world was changed without the loss of a 
human life.

Surrogate broadcasts, mainly radio but increasingly these new media, 
provide people with the news and information about their countries that 
otherwise they couldn't possibly obtain. As one observer has noted, 
this type of broadcasting irritates authoritarian regimes. It inspires 
democracies. It creates greater space for civil society. Yes, it does. 
It does change societies.

Irritate totalitarian regimes? Yes, that has happened. China has 
attempted to erect a ''great wall of sound'' to block RFA 
transmissions. They are not successful, but they block some of them. 
Vietnam has heavily jammed RFA since the first days of the broadcast. 
You may not be able to get it inside the capital, but you can get it in 
the countryside.

We know what news these Communist regimes are afraid of. In North 
Korea, broadcasting such as this is one of the only sources chipping 
away at Pyongyang's propaganda machine. When I talk to defectors out of 
North Korea, as often as not they have listened to these broadcasts, 
especially the senior civil servicemembers. And military members who 
defect tell about how it changed their view of the world.

All around the globe, an information war is at play. Iran is spending 
heavily to block our broadcasting, while beaming its own message into 
Afghanistan and even the Balkans to sow division. Russia is 
broadcasting into southeastern Europe as well. Hugo Chavez is crippling 
local media while bolstering Venezuela's state broadcasts around Latin 
America, and he is preaching anti-Americanism with those broadcasts. 
Then there are the 150 sharia-friendly radio broadcasts in Pakistan's 
Swat Valley. Those are the broadcasts that the Taliban are making in 
Afghanistan and in northwest Pakistan.

So, from Caracas to Tehran to Pyongyang, these totalitarian regimes 
understand that controlling information is central to their being. 
Radio Free Asia is one of our pieces on this chess board.

I look forward to the passage of this legislation and to working with 
the chairman and ranking member to seek a more important standing for 
this critical organization.