# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b2cf28ccbd5e019f9edc0fd0664e7e26`
`Mr. WHITFIELD â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. WHITFIELD. Madam Speaker, I believe that the American people 
welcome this debate on Iraq, certainly one of the most important issues 
facing the


American people, and I believe we will all benefit from open, 
constructive, and sincere debate.

It goes without saying that no one Member of Congress or political 
party has a clear-cut solution to the complex problems our Nation faces 
in Iraq.

I expect that every Member of Congress will share their thoughts on 
whether we should approve or disapprove this 100-word resolution; and 
like every other Member of Congress, I offer and convey my respect, 
gratitude and thanks for the exemplary service and heart-rendering 
sacrifice made by our young men and women in the military. As so many 
have said, they have performed in an exemplary way, and they have 
accomplished every task we have asked them to do.

I have had the great privilege of representing Ft. Campbell, home of 
the 101st Airborne Division and the 5th Special Forces group who have 
served many times in Iraq.

Throughout this debate many speakers have quoted generals and other 
experts who have disagreed emphatically with many aspects of the 
military decisions and strategic decisions about Iraq. We know there 
have been and continue to be strong disagreements among those who have 
been intimately involved in this issue.

We have as a Nation endured so much. As has been said, over 3,000 
American soldiers have died, and 23,417 have been wounded during the 
past 4 years in Iraq.

While I understand the arguments of those who support this 
resolution, I would like to briefly explain why I believe we should 
vote against this resolution.

Neither President Bush, Speaker Pelosi or any Member of Congress will 
have as much opportunity to maximize the possibility of success in Iraq 
as our new military commander in Iraq, General David Petraeus. He is 
responsible, with the men and women serving, for implementing the 
increased security for Baghdad. He was confirmed for this new 
responsibility by a vote of 81-0 in the U.S. Senate on January 26, 
2007, a mere 20 days ago.

At his confirmation hearing, among other statements, General Petraeus 
said, ''Some of the members of this committee have observed that there 
is no military solution to the problem of Iraq.'' And he said, ''They 
are correct.''

Ultimate success in Iraq will be determined by actions in the Iraqi 
political and economic arenas on central issues as governance, the 
amount of power devolved to the provinces, the distribution of oil 
revenue, national reconciliation, and resolution of sectarian 
differences.

And then he went on to say, and this is key, It is, however, 
exceedingly difficult for the Iraqi Government to come to grips with 
the tough issues it must resolve while mere survival is the primary 
concern of so many in Iraq's capital.

For this reason, military action to improve security, while not 
wholly sufficient to solve Iraq's problems, is certainly necessary, and 
that is why additional U.S. and Iraqi forces are needed in Baghdad. 
They do have a role.

General Petraeus and our military have been asked to implement this 
additional security. He was confirmed to do this, as I said, just 20 
days ago. Are we going to turn our backs and abandon General Petraeus 
and his soldiers this early? Are we going to say ''no'' without an 
adequate opportunity for the new strategy to work?

In truth, no one can predict the impact of a failed Iraqi state on 
regional stability, the international economy, the global war on 
terror, American security, stability in the Middle East and the lives 
of the Iraqi people. Twenty days is simply not enough time.

I would also like to remind the Members that on page 23 of the Iraq 
Study Group it says quite clearly, ''We could support a short-term 
redeployment or surge of American combat forces to stabilize Baghdad,'' 
and that is what we are trying to do.

In my view, it is premature to vote ''yes'' on this resolution, only 
20 days after confirming a new general to go to Iraq to provide 
additional security in Baghdad so that the Iraqi Government will have a 
reasonable opportunity to succeed