# DOING THE SENATE'S WORK
## `b317df571a1e56a1d168266c9070de35`
`Mr. BOND â€” 4 December 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I thank the Chair, and I thank our minority 
leader, Senator McConnell, for outlining the importance of the Peru 
Free Trade Agreement and the other trade agreements. We have 3 short 
weeks to get to work and do the work we have not done so far this year. 
I wanted to address three aspects of it.

First, for the intelligence community, we must act, and we must act 
now, to assure that the community has the ability and the tools they 
need to fight terrorists.

Over the last 30 years, the world has experienced a technological 
revolution, and our laws governing terrorist surveillance have not kept 
pace. The old 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act that I will 
refer to as FISA was drafted to deal specifically with the technology 
in use at the time. This spring, a court ruled that because of the 
change in technology, the old FISA law severely limited our ability to 
collect intelligence. Essentially, it made us deaf to collection of 
vitally needed information.

Following that ruling, the Director of National Intelligence, Admiral 
McConnell, told Congress the United States was unable to conduct the 
critical surveillance of foreign terrorists planning to conduct attacks 
inside our country because of the outdated law. It not only affected 
our ability to protect the United States, but it also threatened the 
safety and lives of our troops abroad.



In May I heard that directly from the commander of our Joint Special 
Operations in Iraq, who told me the limitations in the old law 
prevented him from capturing key information needed to protect our 
troops in theater. He could kill or capture a top al-Qaida leader, but 
he was not able to collect signals intelligence on them. The bottom 
line is that terrorists were able to use technology and our own 
outdated laws to stay a step ahead of us.

Congress acted. On August 3 and 4, fortunately, we were able to pass 
the Protect America Act. I was proud to be the lead sponsor of it 
because passage of this temporary law essentially put our national 
security forces back in the business of collecting the information they 
needed.

But this is only a stopgap measure and expires in February. It did 
not include all of the reforms we wanted.

I hope this week the Senate will move to pass a permanent fix, or at 
least a longer term fix, to our intelligence surveillance law. It is 
critical we act before we leave for the holidays to make sure that our 
intelligence laws will be up to date and we will not run into a 
deadline when we come back in January and have to rush through a bill 
at the end or leave our intelligence community deaf to the new 
collections they need.

We have two bills before us. Unfortunately, the Senate Judiciary 
Committee took the bill that came out of the Intelligence Committee and 
changed it so much that it would gut our intelligence surveillance 
ability. The committee ignored significant concerns expressed by the 
working level officials in the Department of Justice and the 
intelligence community, the very operators who know how the system 
works.

The Senate Judiciary Committee ignored the concerns of its own 
minority members. The bill was voted out on a straight party line. The 
good news is there is another option. Earlier this year, the Senate 
Intelligence Committee voted out a bipartisan bill to update FISA. 
After the members of our committee had months and months to study this 
program, most of our committee members went out to the agency to see 
how it worked, to see the layers of protection built in to make sure it 
stayed within the law. We put together, Chairman Rockefeller and I, a 
bipartisan agreement which added more protections to the constitutional 
rights and the privacy rights of American citizens. We worked with the 
intelligence community representatives and the Department of Justice 
lawyers to make sure it would work.

This bill we reported out of the Intelligence Committee gives our 
intelligence operators and law enforcement officials the tools they 
need to collect surveillance on foreign terrorists in foreign countries 
planning to conduct attacks inside the United States or against our 
troops, our allies. It is the balance we need to protect our civil 
liberties without handcuffing our intelligence agencies. I hope we can 
do the right thing and bring that bill to the floor.

Now while we are working together to get our intelligence community 
the tools they need, our military needs Congress to provide the funds 
to get them the equipment, supplies, and fuels they need in the field. 
We have got men and women fighting for security in Iraq, in 
Afghanistan, and our own security. Regrettably, the Democratic 
leadership in Congress wants to hold these funds hostage to a far-left 
agenda which does not represent anything more than a sliver of popular 
opinion in this country. There is no excuse for stalling much-needed 
funds for American troops. These are American troops fighting in the 
field, and we are not giving them funds.

By kowtowing to the far left moveon.org and the Code Pink 
constituency, some of the leaders of the Democratic Party in Congress 
who have control of it are playing a dangerous game with the safety of 
our troops in the field and the readiness and morale of our troops here 
at home.

The latest partisan move comes despite the good news out of Iraq. 
Even the media, who has been opposed to our involvement in Iraq, is 
recognizing that as a result of the new Petraeus strategy, a surge on 
the counterinsurgency, working with the Iraqi security forces, our 
forces together with the Iraqis have been successful in eliminating key 
terrorist safe havens and hampering the enemy's ability to conduct 
coordinated attacks. There has been a consistent and steady trend of 
progress over the last 6 months.

There are positive stories describing Baghdad's marketplace coming 
back to life. All over the place violent attacks in Iraq are falling. 
Even some of the war's loudest and strongest opponents in the House 
have acknowledged the signs of progress. But despite this, the 
leadership has failed to give us the opportunity to improve the funds 
our troops need in the field.

With only a few legislative days left, our soldiers, sailors, our 
airmen, and marines cannot afford more of the partisan delay. We have 
got men and women risking their lives, and we are denying the funds 
they need for support. That is unthinkable. That is unthinkable. We 
have got to abandon the far left's strategies of retreat and defeat and 
allow our troops to do their jobs.













 Peru Free Trade Agreement


While we are talking about winning the war, there is also the war 
that is the soft war, the war of economic progress and opportunity. 
That is why, as Leader McConnell said, the free trade agreements are so 
important. We have the opportunity to help countries that are less 
developed get the free markets, the economic opportunity, the 
democratic chances to influence their government that we treasure and 
that have helped make our country successful.

One of the most important things we can do is adopt the free trade 
agreements. We have four agreements pending. If enacted, these four 
pending FTAs would expand market opportunities between the United 
States and countries that have nearly 126 million consumers.

Today's vote on the Peru FTA is very important. I urge us to support 
that. This will generate U.S. exports, create jobs, enhance the well-
being of farming communities such as those I represent in Missouri. Ask 
these farmers and the small businesses how important these agreements 
are. Opening these markets would boost U.S. farm exports by $1.5 
billion. Under the Peru FTA, more than two-thirds of current U.S. farm 
exports will become duty free. Tariffs on all farm products would be 
eliminated in 17 years.

The FTAs are vitally important. When FTAs are defeated, it is bad 
news for progressive government supporting the United States. In 
particular, it would be a blow to President Uribe in Colombia, who has 
been successfully fighting the leftist FARC terrorists, curbing illicit 
drug production. He is the most important counterweight to the anti-
American vitriol of Hugo Chavez in Venezuela.

Chavez was rebuffed by students in his own country. We have an 
opportunity to establish good working relationships with Peru, with 
Colombia, with Panama, to show the leaders of the opposition in 
Venezuela that there is a better way than Hugo Chavez and his blind 
adherence to the Castro model in Cuba.

Every President since World War II, Republican and Democrat, has 
fought to reduce the kind of trade barriers that triggered the Great 
Depression of the 1930s. This administration has followed that example. 
I hope that in addition to Peru, the leadership of Congress will seek 
approval of free trade agreements and pass them for South Korea, 
Panama, and Colombia. It is vitally important not only for free trade 
between those countries but for our standing in leading for security, 
peace, and freedom in Latin America.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.