# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `b35e9b3cb26e74141181b74bb157f4f4`
`Mr. GRAHAM â€” 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the Webb 
amendment. I guess if I can pick up where my colleague from New Jersey 
left off, what is the best thing for the Congress to do in terms of 
supporting our troops? What are our duties? What are our obligations? I 
would argue the worst thing the Congress can do at a time of war is to 
start taking over operational control of deployments.

Many of us are up for reelection next year. This Iraq war has become 
one big political commercial. There are commercials being run out 
there--I don't know if they are on the air right at this moment, but 
every time there is a vote in this body, a Republican in a tough State 
will have an ad run in their State saying: Senator so-and-so has voted 
six times not to withdraw from Iraq. There are political commercials 
being run around every policy debate we have regarding this war. This 
is a political consultant's dream, this war.

Well, this war is not about the next election; this war is about 
generations to come. The commercials will keep coming. Every time we 
have a vote like this, somebody is going to take a work product, turn 
it into a political ad, and try to get some political momentum from the 
dialog we have on the floor.

None of us question each other's patriotism. That is great. To those 
who have served in combat, my hat is off to you. But we all have our 
independent obligation to make our own decisions here, and those who 
have never worn the uniform, you are just as capable of understanding 
this issue as I think anybody else. If you have been to Iraq, you 
understand how tired people are. They are tired. If you visit the 
military on a regular basis, you know they are stressed.

Let me give my colleagues some numbers here. The 1st Cavalry 
Division, their retention rates are 135 percent; The 25th ID, 202 
percent; the 82nd Airborne, 121 percent retention rates. Recruiting and 
retention is very good because people who are in the fight now 
understand the consequences of the fight and they don't want to lose. I 
was in Baghdad on July 4. We had 680-something people reenlist in 
theater.

The troops are tired. That is not the problem. They understand the 
war. They understand the enemy because they deal with the enemy face-
to-face, day-to-day. They realize that if we don't get this right--and 
in spite of the mistakes we have made, we can still get it right--if at 
the end of the day we don't get it right in Iraq, their kids are going 
to go back. The No. 1 comment I get from the troops after having been 
there many times is: I want to do this, Senator Graham, so that my 
children do not have to come over here and fight this war. Let's get it 
right now.

Well, let's help them get it right. I think we are not helping them 
if the Congress mandates troop rotations that will undercut the ability 
for the surge to continue.

Everyone cares about the troops, but the politics of this amendment 
are such that it would get--the bill would be vetoed. The President has 
said that if this amendment gets to be part of the underlying Defense 
authorization bill, he would veto it. I think any President would veto 
this bill. The Secretary of Defense's letter to me is a chilling 
rendition of what would happen to the force if this amendment was 
adopted. So we know the Defense authorization bill would get vetoed, 
and all the good things in it we do agree on--about MRAPs, support for 
the troops, better health care--all that gets lost.

Now, why are we doing this? Some people have a very serious concern 
that the force is stressed, and they want to take pressure off the 
force by giving them as much time at home as they have in the theater. 
Some people want to use this amendment to make sure the surge can't go 
forward because that would be the effect of it. People are all over the 
board. The consequence to the Defense authorization bill is it would 
get vetoed over this provision. Now, if that is what my colleagues want 
to happen, this is a way to make sure it happens.

The idea of telling the Department of Defense how long someone can 
stay in combat once they are trained and ready to go to the fight is 
probably the most ill-advised thing any Congress could do in any war. 
The Congress is a political body that is driven, appropriately, by the 
moment, by the next election, the voices of constituents, concerns of 
the public. Wars are not fought that way. Decisions in wars are not 
poll-driven--I hope. Decisions of politicians appropriately incorporate 
political consequences to the Member. Let's not make military policy 
based on the political consequence to the Member of Congress. That is 
what you would be opening a can of worms to.

If we take on this responsibility of managing troops from a 
congressional point of view, setting their rotation schedules, how many 
can go and how long they can go, then their presence in whatever 
battlefield or theater we are talking about in the future is very much 
tied to the political moment back home. Think about that. If we begin 
to adopt this way of managing a war where the Congress takes this bold, 
unknown step of saying: You can only go in theater this long and you 
can't do A and you can't do B, but you can do C, what happens in the 
next war? Is it wise for political people who worry about their own 
reelection--which is an appropriate, rightful thing to be worried about 
if you are in politics--to have this much power? Is it good for the 
military for the Congress--535 people--to have this much power over 
military deployments? Our Constitution gives them a political Commander 
in Chief--a single person--who has to answer to the public at the 
ballot box.


The Congress can, as part of our constitutional responsibilities, 
terminate any war because our constitutional role allows us to fund 
wars. So to my colleagues on the other side and those on this side who 
want to support this amendment, you would be doing the country a 
service and eventually, I think, the troops a service by trying to stop 
this war by cutting off funding, if that is your goal. If you think the 
war is lost and you believe it is the biggest foreign policy mistake in 
a generation and that it is a hopeless endeavor and that Iraq will 
never get any better, then just come to the floor and offer an 
amendment on the appropriations bill to say we will not continue to 
fund this war and create an orderly withdrawal. If you do that, I will 
disagree with you, but you will have followed a constitutional path 
that is well charted, and if you believe all the things I have just 
said, you will be doing the troops a great service because you will not 
create a precedent in the future where some other politician may take 
up your model and use it in a way you never envisioned.

Once we legitimize politicians being able to make rotation deployment 
schedule decisions, once we go down that road, we have opened up 
Pandora's box where the politics of the next war could dramatically 
affect the ability to operate on the battlefield. If we limit our 
actions to cutting off funding, that will be a sustainable way for 
Congress to engage in terms of wars they believe have been lost.

Now, the majority leader, Harry Reid, said the war was lost in April 
and the surge has failed. If you really believe that, let's have a 
debate not about micromanaging troop schedules and deployment 
schedules; let's have a debate that would be worthy of this Congress 
and this Nation. Let's come back onto the floor and put an amendment on 
the desk to be considered that would end the war by stopping funding 
for the war. That is not going to happen. The reason that is not going 
to happen is because the surge has been somewhat successful and the 
politics of ending this war--everybody is trying to hedge their bet a 
little bit now. The politics of the next election are affecting the 
politics of this body when it comes to war policy in a very unhealthy 
way.

We have a side-by-side alternative to Senator Webb that puts 
congressional


voice behind the idea that we would like the policy of Secretary Gates 
to be implemented of ensuring the dwell time at home is consistent with 
the amount of time one is in theater. It is a sense-of-the-Senate that 
gives voice to Secretary Gates's goal and policy of dwell time without 
retreating into the Commander in Chief's functions, without getting out 
of our constitutional lane. Senator McCain has introduced this side-by-
side. It will be called up at an appropriate time, and I can talk about 
it later on. It is a sense-of-the-Congress where we all agree that it 
would be a great policy to have if the conditions on the ground would 
warrant it, to give our troops a little bit of rest.

But what our troops need more than anything else is a commander who 
knows what he is doing and who can carry out his mission unimpeded by a 
bunch of politicians who are scrambling to get an advantage over each 
other. This whole debate is unseemly. It is destructive to our 
constitutional system. It brings out the worst in American politics. 
You have an ad being run against the very general in charge of our 
troops that is sickening and disgusting, and we are just absolutely 
going to a new low as a nation over this war.

So if you think all the things I said before--the war is lost, 
hopeless, stupid; the worst decision ever made in terms of U.S. foreign 
policy--end the thing. End it. Cut off funding. Don't play this game of 
having 535 people become generals who have no clue of what they are 
talking about. I respect everybody in this body, and those who have 
served, I respect you, but there is not one person here who I think has 
anywhere close to the knowledge of General Petraeus in how to fight a 
war. You could dig up Audie Murphy, and he could come back and tell me 
to vote for this amendment, and I would respectfully disagree. To those 
who have been in battle: God bless you. You deserve all the credit and 
honor that comes your way.

This is about winning a war we can't afford to lose. This is about 
who should run this war--a group of politicians who are scared to death 
of the electorate and who will embrace almost anything to get an 
advantage over the other, who is at 14 percent approval rating in the 
eyes of their fellow citizens? You want to scare the military? You want 
to give them something to be afraid of? Let them read in the paper 
Congress takes over operational control of Iraq. We would have some 
retention problems then. Anybody in their right mind would get out.

There are a lot of choices to be made in our constitutional democracy 
about war and peace. The one choice we have never made before is to 
allow the Congress to set rotation schedules, deployment schedules, and 
if we do it now, not only will we hurt this war effort, we will make it 
impossible for future commanders and future Presidents to protect us.