# None
## `b367e384d7b8055fc5ad04ccf9f47184`
`Ms. ESHOO â€” 15 December 2010`

---


Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I have opposed the Don't Ask, Don't Tell 
policy since its inception in 1993. I voted to repeal it earlier this 
year, and I hope to finally dispose of it with today's vote. This 
harmful policy is an affront to the principles of our Nation and a 
hindrance to our national security. For nearly two decades it has 
prevented qualified men and women from openly serving their country. 
The recently released Pentagon report makes clear that our men and 
women in uniform, along with the vast majority of Americans, recognize 
this policy as being discriminatory and want to see an end to the law.

Since the enactment of Don't Ask, Don't Tell, our Armed Forces have 
discharged nearly 14,000 troops because of their sexual orientation, 
including hundreds of Arabic and Farsi interpreters. These are critical 
positions requiring specialized skills and we are turning qualified 
people away in a time of severe troop shortages. The Army and Marine 
Corps have been forced to reduce standards of eligibility just to reach 
minimum recruitment levels for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. This 
includes issuing 'moral waivers' to people with felony convictions. 
Meanwhile, our men and women in uniform work side-by-side with openly 
gay soldiers from thirteen coalition partners, including the United 
Kingdom, Canada, and Australia, as well as U.S. officers and agents in 
the CIA, NSA, and FBI.

We have the most modern military on earth, with the exception of this 
harmful, discriminatory, and unnecessary policy. I'm proud to have 
cosponsored the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 and I look 
forward to its passage in the Senate. The bill will repeal the law, 
bring our military up to date and the law in-line with the principles 
of our country, and address this civil rights issue once and for all.