# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `b3e72d4ff8b6047387f6d38828b01d1c`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, again, it is extraordinarily ironic that my 
good friend from Arizona says there is no one in a high position in 
this Government who thinks we are succeeding, when the President, just 
2 or 3 months ago, said we are absolutely winning in Iraq. That is the 
Commander in Chief--a pretty high position of responsibility. The Vice 
President, just last year, said that the insurgency is in its last 
throes, when it was not. So it was clear to everybody, and apparently 
to my good friend from Arizona because he says he had seen this for 
years--failure after failure in Iraq--identified by the highest levels 
and the highest level of this administration as being a success.

Year after year, we were told this is a successful strategy. Now all 
of a sudden, a general who was assigned to carry out that strategy and 
did the best he could, acknowledging some mistakes in implementation, 
is going to be held accountable by some who will vote against his 
nomination for the massive failures at the highest levels of civilian 
authority. The strategy was wrong going into Iraq; it was poorly 
implemented. The Iraqi Army was disbanded. That was not General Casey; 
that was before he came.

The people who made those decisions were given awards and medals by 
the administration. George Tenet was given a medal for his work. He 
said the intelligence was a slam-dunk, that there were weapons of mass 
destruction. Medal after medal was given to the civilian leaders. A 
Medal of Freedom was awarded to George Tenet. Ambassador Bremer was 
given a medal. He just disbanded the Iraqi Army and had a 
debaathification program, which was a complete failure because of its 
excess. He was given a Medal of Freedom.


William Haynes, General Counsel of the Department of Defense--his 
dubious legal judgment contributed to the interrogation abuses of 
detainees that led to the horrors of Abu Ghraib. He was given the 
Department of Defense medal for distinguished public service.

Under Secretary of Defense Doug Feith, who hyped false intelligence 
used to justify the war in Iraq, was given a medal.

Now you have a general who was given a strategy and was told to 
implement the strategy. Yes, he was optimistic that it could work. He 
is in charge of the morale of his troops. Now, suddenly, some say he 
should be, in effect, punished. He should carry the burdens that 
properly should be carried by the top civilian leaders of this Nation. 
It is not appropriate.

It is not fair that General Casey be held responsible for massive 
failures that were caused by the wrong policies, the deceptions, the 
ignorance, the arrogance, and the cockiness of civilian leaders in this 
administration. It is just plain wrong that this all be heaped onto his 
back.

What do we know about General Casey? By the way, we know he is 
forthright and acknowledges his mistakes. There is not a commander I 
know of who does not acknowledge his mistakes. Every commander worth 
his or her salt acknowledges mistakes, and General Casey has done that. 
In fact, he has given us a list of mistakes. We asked him what went 
wrong that you contributed to, and he gave us a list very openly. But 
you cannot lay the chaos and the violence in Iraq on General Casey's 
doorstep. This belongs on the doorstep of the top civilian leaders of 
this country who went into Iraq the way they did, who didn't plan for 
an aftermath, who disbanded the Iraqi army, and who perpetrated some of 
the other mistakes that have put us in some of the positions that we 
are in, in Iraq.

General Casey is a long and distinguished servant in the military, 
including the position of Vice Chief of Staff of the Army. This was 
preceded by assignments on the joint staff and a career commanding 
Infantry units at all levels, up to and including Division Command. He 
knows Iraq, he knows the challenges the Army faces in Iraq, he knows 
the Pentagon, and he knows the challenges he will be facing in the 
Pentagon if we confirm him. He has the knowledge and skills to carry 
out his primary responsibility as Chief of Staff, which is the training 
and equipping of soldiers, caring for them and their families.

I want to discuss two issues that have been raised. One is the 
general's decision to support an increase in U.S. forces in Iraq after 
previously opposing such an increase, and also the proposition that 
General Casey somehow or other should be denied this position because 
of mistakes that he may have made in Iraq.

First, the issue of additional troops. I pressed General Casey about 
this issue at his nomination hearing before the Armed Services 
Committee. He said his general view was that he agreed with General 
Abizaid's view that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from doing 
more, from taking more responsibility for their own future. That is 
something, it seems to me, that is key to those of us who oppose this 
surge. That goes to the heart of our argument--the fact that General 
Casey


believed more American forces prevent the Iraqis from doing more, from 
taking more responsibility for their own future.

So how is it that now General Casey supports the surge? That is the 
question I asked him:




 Senator Levin: We asked General Abizaid back in November 


 when he appeared before this committee whether we needed more 


 troops or he supported more troops going to Iraq. And this is 


 just last November. And this is what he said. He said that he 


 met with every divisional commander, General Casey, the Corps 


 commander, General Dempsey. ''We all talked together, and I 


 said, 'In your professional opinion, if you were to bring in 


 more American troops now, does it add considerably to our 


 ability to achieve success in Iraq?' And they all said no. 


 And the reason is because we want Iraqis to do more. It's 


 easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us to do this work. I 


 believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from 


 doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own 


 future.''


I asked General Casey:




 Now, General Abizaid said that he spoke to you and that his 


 opinion reflected your opinion and all the other commanders. 


 Was that true when he said that?



 General Casey: I'm not exactly sure when in November it 


 was, but it was.



 Senator Levin: So you've changed your view since November?



 General Casey: As I described in my opening testimony, 


 Senator, in mid-November was when the reevaluation of the 


 plan was taking place. So I suspect John and I talked before 


 that. And that does reflect my general view on additional 


 U.S. forces in Iraq.



 Senator Levin: It reflects a general view, but then there 


 was some kind of reevaluation which took place in mid-


 November.



 General Casey: That's right, Senator. We're constantly 


 reevaluating how we're doing and what we need.



 Senator Levin: But that position that General Abizaid 


 stated was your position when you spoke to him in early 


 November presumably still remains your general view.



 General Casey: That's correct.



 Senator Levin: Well, if that's your general view, what is 


 the change? Why are you modifying your general view for this 


 surge?



 General Casey: What has changed, Senator, are several 


 things. One, the development of a plan, a new plan that was 


 conceived by the Iraqis and worked in concert with us; so 


 there is a plan that laid out requirements for those forces. 


 So just to say do you need more forces is one thing; to say 


 do you need more forces to execute this plan is quite 


 another. And we do need an additional two brigades to 


 implement that plan.


Now, there is a new plan, a plan that I very strongly disagree with, 
the surge plan of the President. It is a new plan given to the 
commanders, and they are now told, with this new plan, to insert troops 
into neighborhoods of Iraq, hold that territory, and have more American 
troops--many more--embedded with Iraqi forces. That is the plan. That 
is the Commander in Chief's decision.

Will that require more troops? And now General Casey gives his honest 
answer that it will require, in his judgment, two additional brigades.

General Abizaid says it will require more brigades, but General Casey 
said two. I give him credit for giving his honest opinion.

So what has changed? He still believes in general that putting more 
troops in there takes the Iraqis off the hook, but if you change your 
plan, you change your mission and you say, as the Commander in Chief 
has, that is now our mission, that is what we are going to do, it is 
obviously up to the commanders to say how many additional troops it 
would take to carry out that mission.

That is an honest response, and that is the response we expect of our 
leaders. But his general view has been correct, and so has General 
Abizaid's. More American troops is a mistake. It takes the Iraqis off 
the hook. It lessens the responsibility on them to do what only they 
can do with their military and with their political leaders.

People who have visited General Casey in Iraq--colleagues--have 
always found him to be honest about the situation in Iraq and true to 
the pledge that he would give Congress his personal views, even if 
those views differ from the administration in power. And he did this 
again at his nomination hearing when he disagreed with the Commander in 
Chief's sudden epiphany that things are not going well in Iraq.

All of a sudden, now the Commander in Chief says we are on the road 
to slow failure. That is a new revelation. Until a few months ago, the 
Commander in Chief was telling the American people we are absolutely 
winning in Iraq. So now I pressed General Casey about that:




 Do you agree with the President that now the situation in 


 Iraq is maybe a slow failure?


He said:




 I actually don't see it as a slow failure. I actually see 


 it as slow progress.


Do I agree with his assessment? I do not. I have seen chaos in Iraq--
consistent chaos, growing chaos. But do I admire an honest answer even 
when it disagrees with the Commander in Chief? I do. Even though I 
disagree with that answer, I think it was an honest answer that he gave 
to the committee.

What about denying him confirmation as Chief of Staff because of the 
mistakes he may have made? Again, I think this is an ironic argument 
given the fact that the architects of these policies, the architects of 
the major failures which led to the mess General Casey was assigned to 
clean up, are given medals--Medals of Freedom, medals by the Defense 
Department. They are given the medals, and now some will want to lay on 
General Casey's doorstep the mess that was not created by his policies 
but by the policies of others.

I want to read for the Record a statement of Senator Jim Webb on the 
Casey nomination. He is tied up in a hearing, and so I will read this 
very brief statement into the Record for Senator Webb:




 Mr. President, I rise today to speak in support of GEN 


 George Casey, Jr.'s, nomination as the Chief of Staff of the 


 U.S. Army. General Casey's service to the Nation during a 


 long career and his experiences in Iraq qualify him well to 


 address the formidable challenges facing the U.S. Army today.



 Questions have been raised regarding General Casey's tenure 


 as commander of the Multinational Force-Iraq. The national 


 strategy in Iraq was flawed even before the invasion, and 


 attacks on General Casey's performance only divert attention 


 from the true architects of that strategy.



 The situation faced by General Casey in Iraq represents the 


 classic conundrum of military service at the highest level of 


 command. In this administration, it has not been unheard of 


 for some officers who spoke too loudly, very often, to have 


 lost their jobs. At the same time, to speak too softly often 


 causes the military leader, rather than the civilian boss, to 


 be blamed when things go wrong. While I believe strongly that 


 military leaders should be held accountable, General Casey 


 performed as well as one could expect given the strategy for 


 the war's direction that he inherited when he reported to 


 Baghdad.


I wonder, Mr. President, if there is any time remaining.