# None
## `b4cb33f015c1b0c92cc3f0f376741e66`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN â€” 8 April 2008`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

And he has shown us some great charts, civilian deaths, the coalition 
data, the high profile attacks with the suicide car bombings, the car 
bombs, the suicide attacks, the weapons caches that are found and 
cleared. And when you look at the fact that we are finding many more 
weapons caches than we were and when you look at the fact that the 
attacks are down and the deaths are down, you have to ask, how did this 
happen? And the way it has happened is our men and women in uniform, 
and God bless them all, and I think about my constituents from Fort 
Campbell who are deployed right now, who are in both Iraq and 
Afghanistan, but the men and women in uniform who are taking the lead 
and who are gaining the trust of the Iraqi people and of the Iraqi 
forces and of the Sons of Iraq. And it is our men and women in uniform, 
as they gain this trust, and as the Iraqis know we're not going to 
quit, they are telling them, this is what I know, this is where you go 
to root out this evil person, this is where


you go to root out this weapons cache, this is where you go to get this 
information. Because they know that we are their partner in success and 
we are their partner in freedom.

And it really begs the question, and as I visited with some of the 
veterans that have come to spend some time with us today, this really 
begs the question, when you look at the data and when you have this 
discussion, can we afford to give up on a war where we are winning, 
that our military men and women tell us that they are seeing some 
successes every single day? Can you afford to give up? And how would 
history remember it if you did give up?

I yield back to the gentleman.