# None
## `b5071afbcd48e1cde2ee5a27d6388961`
`Mr. ENSIGN â€” 22 July 2010`

---


Mr. ENSIGN. Mr. President, I rise today to address a relationship 
between the United States and our ally Israel. I was glad to see that 
President Obama took some time over the July Fourth recess to sit down 
with Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu and discuss the rocky path which 
U.S. and Israeli relations have taken over the past 2 years.

Israel is, by far, our strongest ally in the region. This close 
relationship and friendship is built on a bedrock of common democratic 
values, religious affinity, and perhaps most importantly national 
security interests. We are both nations that face threats posed by 
radical Islam.

While we have been able to take the fight to the enemy, as we fight 
al-Qaida and Taliban refinements in Afghanistan and Iraq, Israel has 
not been so fortunate. They face an existential threat. This threat to 
their existence is not just Hamas and Hezbollah, who attack Israel with 
suicide bombs and rocket attacks, but also from radical nations such as 
Iran and their allies.

When one nation says to another, ''We are going to wipe you off the 
map,'' we need to take that threat seriously. This is especially true 
when that nation says it over and over again, as Iran has. As an ally, 
Israel should be able to count on us for support. This support is not 
limited to financial and military support but also diplomatic and moral 
support. So when Iran says they are going to wipe Israel off the map, 
the United States needs to stand up and say, ''No, you will not.'' We 
cannot send mixed messages. That is why what happened at the 2010 
Nonproliferation Treaty Review Conference worries me so much. For when 
we fail to stand up for our allies on the smaller issues, they begin to 
question our resolve when it comes to the large issues, such as their 
existence.

Under the Nonproliferation Treaty, there is a conference every five 
years to seek ways to strengthen the treaty and advance the goals of 
nuclear non-proliferation. At this conference, Secretary Clinton opened 
by stating that:




 Iran will do whatever it can to divert attention away from 


 its own record and attempt to evade accountability. . . . But 


 Iran will not succeed in its efforts to divert and divide.


Additionally, a White House official was quoted in the Washington 
Post at the beginning of the conference summarizing: ''This meeting is 
all about Iran.''

Based on these comments, one would expect to see some reference to 
the fact that Iran and Syria are both flagrantly violating their treaty 
obligations. One would expect to hear that Iran has threatened the 
existence of another sovereign nation. One would expect to hear how 
Israel was forced to destroy a North Korean nuclear facility located in 
its backyard. We did not see anything of this sort in the final 
document. What we did see instead was the name ''Israel'' appearing. I 
am a little bit confused. Why would we agree to a document that does 
not mention Iran or Syria but does single out our strongest ally in the 
region? This is even more puzzling considering this is a consensus 
document. That means that we, as a nation, had to sign off on it. 
Essentially, we threw one of our closest allies under the bus, in 
exchange for what? I do not believe there is a good answer to this 
question. What type of message does this send not only to Israel but to 
our other allies? It says:


We will not hesitate to throw you overboard in exchange for a political 
tic mark that gets us nothing.

In closing, I believe that based on what Secretary Clinton was hoping 
to achieve and what we actually did achieve--the alienation of an 
ally--this conference has to be considered an utter failure.

Some over at Foggy Bottom, at the White House, and in Congress need 
to realize how important our relationship with Israel is and start 
taking steps to strengthen that relationship instead of taking steps to 
weaken it, as we did at the recent Nonproliferation Conference.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.