# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `b5355c67bbb158af347815f45901db2c`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I oppose the amendment offered by the 
chairman and the Senator from Rhode Island. Let's be very clear what 
this amendment would do. It would mandate a withdrawal of U.S. forces 
from Iraq. The debate that has taken place on this floor for some 
months now comes down to a simple choice. The sponsors of this 
amendment would have us legislate a withdrawal of U.S. combat forces 
from Iraq within 120 days of enactment, leaving in place only forces 
authorized to carry out specific, narrow missions. That is one choice, 
to force an end to the war in Iraq and accept thereby all the terrible 
consequences that follow. The other is to defeat this amendment, to 
give General Petraeus and the troops under his command the time and 
support they have requested to carry out their mission, to allow them 
to safeguard vital American interests and an Iraqi population at risk 
of genocide. That is the choice.

Though politics and popular opinion may be pushing us in one 
direction, to take the easy course, we, as elected leaders, have a 
greater responsibility. A measure of courage is required, not the great 
courage exhibited by the brave men and women fighting today in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, but a smaller measure, the courage necessary to put our 
country's interests before every personal or political consideration.

I wish to spend a few moments reviewing the state of affairs in Iraq 
today. The final reinforcements needed to implement General Petraeus's 
new counterinsurgency strategy arrived several weeks ago. From what I 
saw and heard on my recent trips and from briefings and reports since 
then, I believe our military, in cooperation with Iraqi security 
forces, is making progress in a number of areas. The areas where they 
are operating have


not suddenly become safe, but they do illustrate the progress that our 
military has achieved under General Petraeus's new strategy. The most 
dramatic advances have been made in Anbar Province, a region that last 
year was widely believed to be lost to al-Qaida. After an offensive by 
U.S. and Iraqi troops cleaned al-Qaida fighters off of Ramadi and other 
areas of western Anbar Province, tribal sheikhs broke formally with the 
terrorists and joined the coalition side.

Ramadi, which just months ago stood as Iraq's most dangerous city, is 
now one of its safest. In February, attacks in Ramadi averaged between 
30 and 35. Now many days see no attacks at all--no gunfire, no IEDs, 
and no suicide bombings.

In Fallujah, Iraqi police have established numerous stations and have 
divided the city into gated districts, leading to a decline in 
violence. Local intelligence tips have proliferated in the province. 
Thousands of men are signing up for the police and the army, and the 
locals are taking the fight to al-Qaida. U.S. commanders in Anbar 
attest that all 18 major tribes in the province are now on board with 
the security plan. They expect that a year from now, the Iraqi Army and 
police could have total control of security in Ramadi. At that point, 
they project, we could safely draw down American forces in the area.

The Anbar model is one our military is attempting to replicate in 
other parts of Iraq with some real successes. A brigade of the 10th 
Mountain Division is operating in areas south of Baghdad, the belts 
around the capital which have been havens for al-Qaida and other 
insurgents. All soldiers in I brigades are living forward and 
commanders report that local sheikhs are increasingly siding with the 
coalition against al-Qaida, the main enemy in that area of operations.


Southeast of Baghdad the military is targeting al-Qaida in safe 
havens they maintain along the Tigris River, and MG Rick Lynch, 
commander of operations there, recently reported that attacks on 
civilians in his area of operations were down 20 percent since April 
and civilian deaths have declined by 55 percent. These and other 
efforts are part of Operation Phantom Thunder, a military operation 
intended to stop insurgents present in the Baghdad belts from 
originating attacks in the capital itself.

In Baghdad, the military, in cooperation with Iraqi security forces, 
continues to establish joint security stations and deploy throughout 
the city in order to get violence under control. These efforts have 
produced positive results. Sectarian violence has fallen since January. 
The total number of car bombings and suicide attacks declined in May 
and June, and the number of locals coming forward with intelligence 
tips has risen. Make no mistake: Violence in Baghdad remains at 
unacceptably high levels. Suicide bombers and other threats pose 
formidable challenges, and other difficulties abound. Nevertheless, 
there appears to be overall movement in the right direction.

North of Baghdad, Iraqi and American troops have surged into Diyala 
Province and are fighting to deny al-Qaida sanctuary in the city of 
Baquba. For the first time since the war began, Americans showed up in 
force and did not quickly withdraw from the area. In response, locals 
have formed a new alliance with the coalition to counter al-Qaida. 
Diyala, which was the center of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's Islamic 
caliphate finally has a chance to turn aside the forces of extremism.

I offer these observations not in order to present a rosy scenario of 
the challenges we continue to face in Iraq. As the horrific bombing in 
Salah ad-Din Province illustrates so graphically, the threats to Iraqi 
stability have not gone away, nor are they likely to go away in the 
near future. Our brave men and women in Iraq will continue to face 
great challenges. What I do believe, however, is that while the mission 
to bring a degree of security to Iraq and Baghdad and its environs in 
particular, in order to establish the necessary precondition for 
political and economic process, is still in its early stages, the 
progress our military has made should encourage all of us.

It is also clear that the overall strategy General Petraeus has put 
into place, a traditional counterinsurgency strategy that emphasizes 
protecting the population and gets our troops off of bases and into the 
areas they are trying to protect, is the correct one.

Some of my colleagues argue we should return troops to forward 
operating bases and confine their activities to training in targeted 
counterterrorism operations. That is precisely what we did for 3/1/2/ 
years, which I, time after time, said was doomed to failure. The 
situation in Iraq only got worse. I am, frankly, surprised that my 
colleagues would advocate a return to the failed Rumsfeld-Casey 
strategy. No one can be certain whether this new strategy, which 
remains in the early stages, can bring about ever greater stability. We 
can be sure, however, that should the Senate seek to legislate an end 
to the strategy as it is just commencing, then we will fail for 
certain.

Now that the military effort in Iraq is showing some signs of 
progress, space is opening for political progress. Yet rather than 
seizing the opportunity, the government of Prime Minister Maliki is not 
functioning as it must. We see little evidence of reconciliation, and 
none of the 18 benchmarks has yet been met. Progress is not enough. We 
need to see results. Today. I am sorry to report the results are not 
there. The Iraqi Government can function. The question is whether it 
will. If there is to be hope of a sustainable end to the violence that 
so plagues that country, Iraqi political leaders must seize this 
opportunity. It will not come around again.

To encourage political progress, I believe we can find wisdom in 
several suggestions put forward recently by Henry Kissinger. An 
intensified negotiation among the Iraqi parties could limit violence, 
promote reconciliation, and put the political system on a more stable 
footing. At the same time we should promote a dialog between the Iraqi 
Government and its Sunni Arab neighbors, specifically Egypt, Jordan, 
and Saudi Arabia, in order to build broader international acceptance 
for the Iraqi central Government in exchange for that Government 
meeting specific obligations with respect to the protection and 
political participation of the Sunni minority. These countries should 
cease their efforts to handpick new Iraqi leaders and instead 
contribute to stabilizing Iraq, an effort that would directly serve 
their national interests.

Finally, we should begin a broader effort to establish a basis for 
aid and even peacekeeping efforts by the international community key to 
political progress in Iraq. In taking such steps, we must recognize 
that no lasting political settlement can grow out of a U.S. withdrawal. 
On the contrary, a withdrawal must grow out of a political solution, a 
solution made possible by the imposition of security by coalition and 
Iraqi forces.

Secretary Kissinger is absolutely correct when he states 
''precipitate withdrawal would produce a disaster'' and one that 
''would not end the war but shift it to other areas, like Lebanon or 
Jordan or Saudi Arabia,'' produce greater violence among Iraqi 
factions, and embolden radical Islamists around the world.

Let us keep in the front of our minds the likely consequences of 
premature withdrawal from Iraq. Many of my colleagues would like to 
believe that should the withdrawal amendment we are currently debating 
become law, it would mark the end of this long effort. They are wrong. 
Should the Congress force a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq, it would 
mark a new beginning, the start of a new, more dangerous, and more 
arduous effort to contain the forces unleashed by our disengagement.


No matter where my colleagues came down in 2003 about the centrality 
of Iraq to the war on terror, there can simply be no debate that our 
efforts in Iraq today are critical to the wider struggle against 
violent Islamic extremism. Already, the terrorists are emboldened, 
excited that America is talking about not winning in Iraq but is, 
rather, debating when we should lose. Last week, Ayman al-Zawahiri, al-
Qaida's deputy chief, said the United States is merely delaying our 
inevitable defeat in Iraq and that the Mujahedin of Islam in Iraq of 
the caliphate and Jihad are advancing with steady steps toward victory. 
He called on Muslims to travel to Iraq to fight Americans and appealed 
for Muslims to support the Islamic State in Iraq, a group established 
by al-Qaida.



General Petraeus has called al-Qaida ''the principal short-term 
threat to Iraq.'' What do the supporters of this amendment believe to 
be the consequences of our leaving the battlefield with al-Qaida in 
place? If we leave Iraq prematurely, jihadists around the world will 
interpret the withdrawal as their great victory against our great 
power. Their movement thrives in an atmosphere of perceived victory. We 
saw this in the surge of men and money flowing to al-Qaida following 
the Soviet Union withdrawal from Afghanistan. If they defeat the United 
States in Iraq, they will believe that anything is possible, that 
history is on their side, that they can bring their terrible rule to 
lands the world over. Recall the plan laid out in a letter from 
Zawahiri to Abu Mus'ab al-Zarqawi before his death. That plan is to 
take shape in four stages: Establish a caliphate in Iraq, extend the 
''jihad wave'' to the secular countries neighboring Iraq, clash with 
Israel--none of which will commence until the completion of stage one: 
Expel the Americans from Iraq. The terrorists are in this war to win 
it. The question is, Are we?

The supporters of this amendment respond that they do not, by any 
means, intend to cede the battlefield to al-Qaida. On the contrary, the 
legislation would allow U.S. forces, presumably holed up in forward-
operating bases, to carry out targeted counterterrorism operations. But 
our own military commanders say this approach will not succeed and that 
moving in with search and destroy missions to kill and capture 
terrorists, only to immediately cede the territory to the enemy, is the 
failed strategy of the last 3/1/2/ years.

MG Rick Lynch, who is directing a major part of the Baghdad 
offensive, said over the weekend that an early American withdrawal 
would clear the way for the enemy to come back to areas now being 
cleared of insurgents. ''When we go out there,'' he said, ''the first 
question they ask is: 'Are you staying?' And the second is: 'How can we 
help?' ''

General Lynch added that should U.S. forces pull back before the job 
is complete, we risk ''an environment where the enemy could come back 
and fill the void.''

On Monday, last Monday, Lieutenant General Odierno, the No. 2 
commander in Iraq said:




 My assessment right now is I need more time. I'm seeing 


 some progress now here in Iraq. We have really just started 


 what the Iraqis term ''liberating'' them from al-Qaida.


Withdrawing before there is a stable and legitimate Iraqi authority 
would turn Iraq into a failed State and a terrorist sanctuary in the 
heart of the Middle East. We have seen a failed State emerge after U.S. 
disengagement once before, and it cost us terribly. In pre-9/11 
Afghanistan, terrorists found sanctuary to train and plan attacks with 
impunity. We know that today there are terrorists in Iraq who are 
planning attacks against Americans. We cannot make this fatal mistake 
twice.

As my friend, GEN Brent Scowcroft, has said recently, one of the men 
I respect more than most any in America:




 The costs of staying are visible. The costs of getting out 


 are almost never discussed. If we get out before Iraq is 


 stable, the entire Middle East region might start to resemble 


 Iraq today. Getting out is not a solution.


Natan Sharansky has recently written:




 A precipitous withdrawal of U.S. forces could lead to a 


 bloodbath that would make the current carnage pale by 


 comparison.


Should we leave Iraq before there is a basic level of stability, we 
will invite further Iranian influence at a time when Iranian operatives 
are already moving weapons, training fighters, providing resources, and 
helping plan operations to kill American soldiers and damage our 
efforts to bring stability to Iraq. Iran will comfortably step into the 
power vacuum left by a U.S. withdrawal, and such an aggrandizement of 
fundamentalist power has great potential to spark greater Sunni-Shia 
conflicts across the region.

Leaving prematurely would induce Iraq's neighbors, including Saudi 
Arabia and Jordan, Egypt to Israel, Turkey and others, to feel their 
own security eroding and may well induce them to act in ways that 
prompt wider instability. The potential for genocide, wider war, 
spiraling oil prices, and the perception of strategic American defeat 
is real, and no vote on this floor will change that.

Don't take my word for it. Consult, perhaps, the Iraq Study Group, 
which says:




 A chaotic Iraq could provide a still stronger base of 


 operations for terrorists who seek to act regionally or even 


 globally. Al-Qaida will portray any failure by the United 


 States in Iraq as a sinificant victory that will be featured 


 prominently as they recruit for their cause in the region and 


 in the world.


The report goes on to say that:




 A premature American departure from Iraq would almost 


 certainly produce greater sectarian violence and further 


 deterioration of conditions. The near-term results would be a 


 significant power vacuum, greater human suffering, regional 


 destabilization, and a threat to the global economy. Al-Qaida 


 would depict our withdrawal as a historic victory.


Or perhaps ask the Iraqis. BG Qassim Attam, the chief Iraqi spokesman 
for the Baghdad security plan, said last Sunday the Iraqi military and 
police force need more time before they are capable of assuming control 
of the country's security.

Or maybe our intelligence agencies which in the January National 
Intelligence Estimate concluded:




 If coalition forces were withdrawn rapidly during the term 


 of this estimate, we judge this almost certainly would 


 lead to a significant increase in the scale and scope of 


 sectarian conflict in Iraq, intensify Sunni resistance to 


 the Iraqi government, and have adverse consequences for 


 national reconciliation. The ISF would be unlikely to 


 survive as a nonsectarian national institution; 


 neighboring countries might intervene openly in the 


 conflict; massive civilian casualties and forced 


 population displacement would be probable; AQI outside 


 Iraq would attempt to use parts of the country to plan 


 increased attacks in and out of Iraq, and spiraling 


 violence and political disarray in Iraq, along with 


 Kurdish moves to control Kirkuk and strengthen autonomy, 


 could prompt Turkey to launch a military incursion.


These are the likely consequences of a precipitous withdrawal. I hope 
the supporters of such a move will tell us what they believe to be the 
likely consequences of this course of action. Should their amendment 
become law and U.S. troops begin withdrawing, do they believe that Iraq 
will become more or less stable? That al-Qaida will find it easier to 
gather, plan, and carry out attacks from Iraqi soil or that our 
withdrawal will somehow make this less likely? That the Iraqi people 
become more or less safe? That genocide becomes a more remote 
possibility or ever likelier?

This fight is about Iraq but not about Iraq alone. It is greater than 
that and, more important still, about whether America still has the 
political courage to fight for victory or whether we will settle for 
defeat with all the terrible things that accompany it. We cannot walk 
away gracefully from defeat in this war.

How we leave Iraq is very important. As the Iraq Study Group found:




 If we leave and Iraq descends into chaos, the long-range 


 consequences could eventually require the United States to 


 return.


General Petraeus and his commanders believe they have a strategy that 
can, over time, lead to success in Iraq. General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Ryan Crocker will come to Washington in September to report 
on the status of their efforts and those of the Iraqis. They request 
two things of us: the time necessary to see whether their efforts can 
succeed and the political courage to support them in their work. I 
believe we must give them both.

Right now, as we continue our debate on the war in Iraq, American 
soldiers, marines, sailors, and airmen are fighting bravely and 
tenaciously in battles that are as dangerous, difficult, and 
consequential as the great battles of our armed forces' storied past. 
Americans who fought in France's hedgerow country; those who bled in 
the sands and jungles of the Pacific Islands, who braved the onslaught 
of the Chinese Army in the frozen terrain of Korea and who fought a 
desperate battle to retake Hue from the enemy during the Tet Offensive 
and against numerically superior forces in an isolated Marine base at 
Khe San, will recognize and honor the sacrifice of Americans who now 
fight with such valor, determination, and skill to defend the security 
interests and the honor of our country in desperate battles in Iraq.

The hour is indeed late in Iraq. How we have arrived at this critical 
and


desperate moment has been well chronicled, and history's judgment about 
the long catalog of mistakes in the prosecution of this war will be 
stern and unforgiving. But history will revere the honor and the 
sacrifice of those Americans who, despite the mistakes and the failures 
of both civilian and military leaders, shouldered a rifle and risked 
everything--everything--so the country they love so well might not 
suffer the many dangerous consequences of defeat.

We read in our leading newspapers about those veterans of the Iraq 
war who have organized to oppose its continuation. They have fought for 
America's freedom, and they have every right to exercise their freedom, 
to oppose their Government's policies. I wish, though, that the press 
would pay at least equal attention to the many veterans--many more 
veterans, many more veterans--who have fought, suffered, and witnessed 
the ultimate sacrifice, the loss of their dearest friends, and yet are 
still committed to America's success in Iraq, and to those who have 
served multiple tours in this terrible war and yet reenlist because 
they remain steadfast in the belief that they can achieve the mission 
they have already risked so much to achieve. The American public, those 
who still support our effort in Iraq and those who desire a quick end 
to it, should be daily reminded that although our country is deeply 
divided about this war, most of the many thousands of Americans who 
have suffered its worst miseries are still resolved--still resolved--
that it not end in an American defeat.

Our new counterinsurgency strategy is succeeding where our previous 
tactics failed us. We are taking from the enemy and holding territory 
that was once given up for lost. Those who have falsely described 
General Petraeus's efforts as ''staying the course'' are the real 
advocates of continuing on the course of failure. Many of those who 
decry the way we got into this war and the way we fought it are now 
advocating a way out of it that suffers from more willful refusal to 
face facts than they accuse the administration of exhibiting. Although 
we all seem to be united in recognizing the mistakes and failures of 
the past, the proponents of reducing our forces in Iraq and keeping 
them in secure bases from which they could occasionally launch search 
and destroy missions are proposing to return to the very tactics that 
have brought us to the point of trying to salvage from the wreckage of 
those mistakes a last best hope for success.

That is what General Petraeus and the Americans he has the honor to 
command are trying to do--to fight smarter and better, in a way that 
addresses and doesn't strengthen the tactics of the enemy and to give 
the Iraqis the security and opportunity to make the necessary political 
decisions to save their country from the abyss of genocide and a 
permanent and spreading war. So far, the Maliki Government has not 
risen to that challenge, and it must do so. It is obvious that America 
is losing our resolve to continue sacrificing its sons and daughters, 
while the Iraqi Government will not take the political risks to do what 
is plainly in the best interests of the Iraqi people.

But we do not fight only for the interest of Iraqis, Mr. President, 
we fight for ours as well.

We, too, we Members of Congress, must face our responsibilities 
honestly and bravely. What is asked of us is so less onerous than what 
we have asked from our servicemen and women, but no less consequential. 
We need not risk our lives, nor our health, but only our political 
advantages so that General Petraeus has the time and resources he has 
asked for to follow up on his recent successes and help save Iraq and 
America from the catastrophe that would be an American defeat. That is 
not much to risk compared to the sacrifices made by Americans fighting 
in Iraq or the terrible consequences of our defeat. For if we withdraw 
from Iraq, if we choose to lose there, there is no doubt in my mind, no 
doubt at all, that we will be back--in Iraq and elsewhere--in many more 
desperate fights to protect our security and at an even greater cost in 
American lives and treasure.

Little is asked of us to help prevent this catastrophe, but so much 
depends on our willingness to do so, on the sincerity of our pledge to 
serve America's interests before our own. The Americans who must make 
the greatest sacrifices have earned the right to insist that we do our 
duty, as best as we can see it, and accept willingly and graciously 
whatever small sacrifice we must make with our own personal and 
partisan ambitions. Ours is a noisy, restive, and contentious 
profession. It has always been thus, and it always will be. But in this 
moment of serious peril for America, we must all of us remember to whom 
and what we owe our first allegiance--to the security of the American 
people and to the ideals upon which we our Nation was founded. That 
responsibility is our dearest privilege and to be judged by history to 
have discharged it honorably will, in the end, matter so much more to 
all of us than any fleeting glory of popular acclaim, electoral 
advantage or office. The history of this country, after all, is not 
merely a chronicle of political winners and losers, it is a judgment of 
who has and who has not contributed to the continued success of 
America, the greatest political experiment in human history.

It is my sincere wish that all of us, Republicans and Democrats, 
should know in our hearts whatever mistakes we have made in our lives, 
personally or politically, whatever acclaim we have achieved or 
disappointment we have suffered, that we have, in the end, earned 
history's favor. I hope we might all have good reason to expect a 
kinder judgment of our flaws and follies because when it mattered most 
we chose to put the interests of this great and good Nation before our 
own, and helped, in our own small way, preserve for all humanity the 
magnificent and inspiring example of an assured, successful and ever 
advancing America and the ideals that make us still the greatest Nation 
on Earth.

I yield the floor.