# RECOGNIZING NATIONAL SUICIDE WEEK AND COMMENDING CRISISLINK FOR 40  YEARS OF SERVICE
## `b6df1aa2cf96f355faaecdcf690ab182`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia â€” 20 September 2010`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my 
support for the week of September 5th through the 12th, 2010 to be 
designated as the National Suicide Prevention Week. Suicide is the 
third leading cause of death among teens and young adults in the United 
States. Every 2 hours, a person under the age of 25 commits suicide, 
resulting in an estimated 12 youth suicides every day. CrisisLink, a 
nonprofit located in Arlington, Virginia, is a prime example of an 
organization dedicated to saving lives and preventing these tragedies. 
Located in my Northern Virginia eighth congressional district, 
CrisisLink gives vital support to people facing life crises, trauma and 
thoughts of suicide. They provide information, education and links to 
community resources throughout the Washington, D.C. Metropolitan region 
to those in need.

Mental health issues are a stark reality for many Americans, whether 
it may be themselves, a family member, friend, or coworker. Currently, 
more than 78,000 veterans of the military operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan have sought help for mental health related issues. Sadly, 
120 veterans commit suicide every week. Nationally, suicide rates are 
highest among people older than 65; this age group makes up 12.5 
percent of the population and accounts for 15.9 percent of all 
suicides. Although these are just a few examples, every community 
experiences the debilitating effects of suicide.

Since 1969, CrisisLink has provided invaluable, free and confidential 
crisis intervention and referral services to anyone who calls. 
CrisisLink has also played a vital role in educating the community on 
how to recognize the signs of depression and respond quickly to the 
signs that someone is in trouble. 2009 was a difficult year for many in 
our community. But CrisisLink has quickly been there to help every step 
of the way. I have known CrisisLink's work for many years and have seen 
both how they operate and the impact they have on our community. I know 
that they put their resources to good use. I commend CrisisLink for the 
40 years of service to our community; answering more than a half-
million crisis calls, responding to more than 25,000 potential 
suicides, providing more than a quarter million referrals, promoting 
mental wellness, educating people about depression and other mental 
illnesses, and reducing the stigma attached to mental illness.

My best to CrisisLink and good luck on another 40 years of 
commendable, vital service to those in need.
