# None
## `b7003901b4de0cd332bd4ae8c1c1992d`
`Mr. INSLEE â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. INSLEE. Who are the real experts on the question of whether the 
lack of a timeline actually fuels the insurgency, the lack of a 
timeline actually making the violence worse?

One of them is named Muhammad al-Dini. He is an elected member of the 
Iraqi parliament. He was here yesterday, and I met with him. He told me 
that a majority, 144 members, of the elected Iraqi parliament 2 days 
ago signed a petition that basically said that the lack of a timeline 
is fueling attacks against our troops. The lack of a timeline is 
fueling this insurgency. The lack of a timeline is playing into the 
hands of al Qaeda. And the reason he told us this is that it allows 
them to go out and recruit and say, Look, America is going to be here 
forever. And they recruit people that go out and attack us.

The other thing he told us is that the Maliki government is using our 
taxpayer dollars to run sectarian militias that go out and attack 
Americans. He urged us to adopt a timeline. An elected official in the 
parliament of the state of Iraq; now there is an expert.

It amazes me that people who have been wrong on Iraq for 4 years come 
down and lecture us, lecture us about whether a timeline is going to 
work or not. I think it might be handy in Congress to have a penalty 
box. If you have been wrong for 4 years on the right strategy in Iraq, 
maybe you should to go into the penalty box for a while and allow the 
people who were against this war from the beginning to have a say on 
what we do in Iraq.

What we are saying is, a lack of a timeline hurts. We need to bleed 
the insurgency of the fuel they use, and the fuel they use is the lack 
of a timeline.

One more thing, I read this headline: ''Bush Told War is Harming the 
GOP.'' I don't care about the GOP or the parties. The GOP members went 
and told the President this is hurting the GOP. It doesn't matter who 
is getting hurt politically here. I will tell you what matters: Our 
sons and daughters are being killed in Iraq.

I hope some of my GOP colleagues, the next time they go to the White 
House, I hope they say, we don't care about the GOP or the DEM; we care 
about the Army and the Navy and the soldiers who are being killed in 
Iraq, and let's get a timetable and get us out of there.