# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `b700ed7fd0d0a1e6945778b80dcb2d11`
`Mrs. LOWEY â€” 16 June 2009`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in stroll support of H.R. 2346, the 
FY09 Emergency Supplemental Conference Report. This legislation 
provides the resources our military, diplomatic, and development 
personnel need to make our nation more secure.

The Obama administration's policy to defeat the Taliban and al Qaeda 
in Afghanistan and Pakistan is critical to prevent the region from 
being a base for terrorist plots against the United States and our 
allies. H.R. 2346 provides $3.8 billion for economic security 
initiatives in the region and funds our diplomatic and development 
personnel and their security.

I welcome the administration's efforts to forge a lasting peace 
between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. This legislation provides 
economic, humanitarian, and security assistance to the West Bank and 
Gaza to encourage stability and political moderation. It ensures that 
Hamas and other terrorist organizations do not receive taxpayer funds 
and conditions funds for a potential Palestinian unity government on 
all its ministers publicly recognizing Israel's right to exist, 
renouncing violence, and adhering to past agreements.

The conference agreement provides $420 million to help Mexico fight 
violent narcotraffickers with surveillance aircraft, helicopters, and 
law enforcement equipment, and to support rule of law programs, 
bringing to $1.12 billion the total appropriated in 2008 and 2009 for 
these purposes.

The bill exceeds the President's request for assistance programs and 
diplomatic operations in Iraq to ensure a smooth transition from the 
military mission to a civilian-led effort.

The bill includes $5 billion to provide the IMF with the resources 
necessary to respond to the global economic crisis. This funding is a 
central component of a comprehensive economic strategy to protect 
American families and jobs.

In addition, the bill addresses significant humanitarian and 
development priorities by providing $225 million to address the growing 
displacement of civilians in Pakistan and to help refugees in other 
countries; $836.9 million for peacekeeping; $256 million for countries 
impacted by the global financial crisis, including Haiti and Liberia; 
and the House-passed level of $100 million for the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.