# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `b7a53f40a3aa8f97efade4c2e25a4920`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia â€” 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. We are very pleased to have you, and we 
certainly thank you for bringing those points and for adding to the 
discussion.

As I stated before, I wanted to just share as we go through this, as 
we talk about House Resolution 97 and our bill on the supplemental, it 
is important to understand so that we are not caught up in all of this 
rhetoric and misinformation about what the Democrats are doing, it is 
very important to understand our shared principles in this legislation 
and fully funding our national defense. This bill fully funds and 
supports our troops in both Iraq and Afghanistan, and we are upholding 
these points, requiring the President to simply honor the standards the 
Department of Defense has set for troop readiness, for training, for 
equipment. We have just seen that many of our troops have gone into 
harm's way without the body equipment that they need. What is wrong 
with making sure that our troops are protected, that they have the body 
armor? That is what the Democratic plan does. What is wrong with making 
sure that they are rested and that they are ready? That is what the 
Democratic plan does. We want to send our young men into harm's way? 
Make sure they are protected, make sure they are ready and that they 
are rested, and to make sure that they have been trained. And on each 
one of those counts, Madam Speaker, this administration has fallen 
short, and the American people know it, and that is the central core of 
the bill.

Secondly, we have got to hold the Iraqi government to the same 
standards for progress that the President outlined in announcing the 
escalation. The President made certain standards. All we are doing is 
reaffirming these in the legislation so that we have those standards. 
And then, providing urgently needed support to address the military 
medical care crisis for our veterans at Walter Reed and other 
hospitals. And that is why the American people are out in front of us 
and support wholeheartedly what the Democratic proposal is.

Let me continue, if I may, on what it is that we are doing so the 
American people can be clear.

On those three points, just simply requiring the President to honor 
the standards that the Defense Department sets for their military to be 
ready, that they have rest, that they have equipment. What can be more 
plain and commonsense than that? And then holding the Iraqis to the 
same standards that he put forward in support of the escalation he 
asked for. And then, thirdly, to provide the urgently needed support to 
address the military medical care and crisis at Walter Reed and other 
hospitals that I just got through alluding to and the excellent report 
in the Washington Post today.

The need for accountability on Iraq is clear. Holding the President 
to his own military readiness policies and performance standards is 
certainly a good way to start. The alternative is only the President's 
open-ended commitment in this war, and that is one thing we cannot 
continue. Our children's lives are too precious, our tax dollars are 
too precious to continue to be pouring in an open-ended policy. We have 
got to find a way to bring this matter to conclusion, not in any kind 
of way of, as the opponents would say, my friends on the other side of 
the aisle, cut and run. That is all they can say. We want to be there 
until victory.

Well, what is victory? What is victory if it is not what we set out 
what we were to do in the very beginning, finds weapons of mass 
destruction, which we did, and they are no longer there? Iraq did not 
attack this country. This country was attacked by al Qaeda. And al 
Qaeda is in Afghanistan on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Osama bin 
Ladin is there on the Pakistan side. I was there. I went over to 
Pakistan, I went over to Afghanistan. I talked with President Karzai. 
They know where they are. What are we doing in Iraq, and why did we go?

The Congress is working hard to achieve consensus around these shared 
principles. And let me just say, politics is no easy business. Making 
laws is sort of making sausage: It is not the prettiest thing in the 
world. But it is our system. It is give and it is take. It is trying to 
get 218 votes. It is pulling coalitions together. And that is why you 
see legislation with the variety of different components in it. But 
there are some standards here, and we hope that the President will join 
us in the effort to protect our troops in the field, require 
accountability from the Iraqi government, and fix the care crisis for 
our wounded soldiers and our veterans. And, finally, understand that he 
isn't the only one on the ball field. We all have a role to play. The 
Founding Fathers made our position clear, and that clarity is speaking 
on this floor today.


And now I want to recognize another one of the distinguished Members 
from New Hampshire (Ms. Porter) who is doing just a wonderful job, and 
we thank you for coming on the floor and being a part of our debate and 
discussion.

I yield as much time as she may need to Ms. Porter from New 
Hampshire.