# WAR IS UGLY BUT TYRANNY IS UGLIER
## `b7d7900a294cd80c6acede8a560859e6`
`Mr. McCOTTER â€” 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Tennessee.

Mr. Speaker, amidst these tumultuous times, it is often difficult to 
make sense of the stakes and the situations which confront us. But let 
us be clear: America in Iraq faces the prospect of a defeat, with 
consequences not only for this present generation of Americans but for 
future generations of Americans as well. Unlike Vietnam, the enemy will 
follow us home; and this is an enemy that is bent upon our destruction 
and the death not only of ourselves but of everything we hold dear.

In similar times, as my colleague Phil English, the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania, earlier read, it was the moral clarity of individuals 
like President Roosevelt, who helped guide the greatest generation to 
their triumph over abject evil.

This generation of Americans must retain their moral clarity to 
understand what needs to be done in the perilous present to get us to a 
better tomorrow. First, we need to step back and assess the situation 
in Iraq. The reality in Iraq is that we have one thing left to do as a 
Nation, and that job has been entrusted to our troops, who have done 
everything and more that has been asked of them.

To date, Iraq is free, Iraq is sovereign, Iraq has a democratically 
elected government. The people of Iraq within the government are 
fighting side by side with United States forces to kill and capture al 
Qaeda and other terrorists and insurgents.

And today we find ourselves struggling to attain the last goal before 
our troops accomplish the mission, and that is to give the new 
democracy a chance to survive in our absence. I say a chance to survive 
in our absence, because no free people, including ourselves, can ever 
be guaranteed that their liberty will last in perpetuity.

Did not Benjamin Franklin tell us this when he said to his fellow 
patriots at the founding of our Nation, we will give you a republic, if 
you can keep it.

The price of keeping that republic, or of any free nation, is eternal 
vigilance, to make sure that your rights are not eroded and you are not 
enslaved.

At another time in our Nation's history, when we were sorely tried 
through the conflagration of war, it was President Lincoln who 
understood that a war for secession had become a war for the 
emancipation of an entire race so that our Nation could have a new 
birth of freedom.

What we find in the Middle East today as we struggle to accomplish 
the last task in this mission is that our war for terror has been 
transformed into the war for the emancipation of millions of Muslims, 
so that the Middle East and our world can have a new birth of freedom.

If we, as a nation conceived in liberty, who have seen the sorrowful 
sacrifice of so many of our sons and daughters throughout our history 
to retain that liberty, determine to turn our backs upon people we have 
given a cruel sip of freedom to before we abandon them, we must ask 
ourselves two questions: What do we as a nation believe anymore about 
ourselves and the inalienable truths upon which we were founded; and 
what manner of dedication can we portray to the world and to ourselves 
as to its preservation?



And then we must ask ourselves a very cruel question: What other 
nascent democracies under terrorist attack will the United States 
abandon? Because that is the question that the enemy wants us to 
confront in what they are doing in Iraq.

If the United States is defeated in Iraq, and make no mistake, with 
the euphemisms that are bandied about, if we leave we lose, and the 
terrorists will remind us of this. The gutter snipe, Osama bin Laden, 
will be more than happy to proclaim it through every Internet site and 
every broadcast media available to him and his ilk for domestic 
American consumption.

If we leave and are defeated in Iraq, everything that the enemy has 
done in Iraq will be transferred to Afghanistan. Already, as we found 
out earlier today, we have seen the hand of the Iranians in putting 
exploding devices and other material to support the Taliban insurgents 
against the NATO forces and our own U.S. troops who are part of that 
coalition.

Let us not forget that it was in Afghanistan that al Qaeda, and 
especially bin Laden and others, learned to kill as they chased the 
Soviets out through


measures that they are now applying in Iraq and Afghanistan. And let us 
not forget that an emboldened enemy will then, on much more familiar 
ground where the al Qaeda was housed before the attacks of September 
11, it will prove a much more fertile ground for their incipient brand 
of insurgency, which we will have already been unable to quell in Iraq, 
which will now devolve into chaos and prove a safe haven for those who 
wish to kill us.

But let us not forget, we have one thing left to do in Iraq. That is 
why it is so bloody, that is why it is so bitter, and that is why it is 
so frustrating to the vast majority of Americans. But if we maintain 
our prudence and perseverance and clarity, we can see this through 
until the mission is accomplished. We can see that the United States, 
which is a revolutionary experiment in human freedom, can remember the 
lesson that Lincoln taught us: When we extend liberty to the enslaved, 
we ensure liberty for ourselves. President Lincoln understood that 
liberty is not static. It does not remain in a perpetual stasis where 
we can enjoy our liberty while others have it denied unto them.

If freedom is advancing or eroding in the course of human events, let 
us rededicate ourselves not only to accomplishing the mission in Iraq 
and Afghanistan so that our world can experience a new birth of 
freedom, let us rededicate ourselves to the proposition that we who are 
born into freedom also bear the responsibility where we can to extend 
liberty to those who also yearn to breathe free, as do all of God's 
creatures.