# OBSERVING THE BIRTHDAY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
## `b7db95d7ecb55c3b46c7cefea1a9f95f`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 16 January 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, this Monday the Nation 
observed for the 21st time the Martin Luther King, Jr., holiday On 
Monday, we celebrated the life and legacy of a man who brought hope and 
healing to America. The Martin Luther King holiday reminds us that 
nothing is impossible when we are guided by the better angels of our 
nature.

Dr. King's inspiring words filled a great void in our Nation, and 
answered our collective longing to become a country that truly lived by 
its noblest principles. Yet, Dr. King knew that it wasn't enough just 
to talk the talk, that he had to walk the walk for his words to be 
credible. And so we commemorate on this holiday the man of action, who 
put his life on the line for freedom and justice every day.

We honor the courage of a man who endured harassment, threats and 
beatings, and even bombings. We commemorate the man who went to jail 29 
times to achieve freedom for others, and who knew he would pay the 
ultimate price for his leadership, but kept on marching and protesting 
and organizing anyway.

Dr. King once said that we all have to decide whether we ''will walk 
in the light of creative altruism or the darkness of destructive 
selfishness. Life's most persistent and nagging question,'' he said, is 
''what are you doing for others?''

And when Martin talked about the end of his mortal life in one of his 
last sermons, on February 4, 1968, in the pulpit of Ebenezer Baptist 
Church, even then he lifted up the value of service as the hallmark of 
a full life. ''I'd like somebody to mention on that day Martin Luther 
King, Jr. tried to give his life serving others,'' he said. ''I want 
you to say on that day, that I did try in my life . . . to love and 
serve humanity.''

Madam Speaker, during these difficult days when the United States is 
bogged down in a misguided and mismanaged war in Iraq, which has 
claimed the lives of too many of our brave young service men and women, 
we should also remember that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., was, 
above all, a person who was always willing to speak truth to power. 
There is perhaps no better example of Dr. King's moral integrity and 
consistency than his criticism of the Vietnam War being waged by the 
Johnson Administration, an administration that was otherwise a friend 
and champion of civil and human rights.

Speaking at the historic Riverside Church in New York City on April 
4, 1967, Dr. King stated:




 I am as deeply concerned about our own troops there as 


 anything else. For it occurs to me that what we are 


 submitting them to in Vietnam is not simply the brutalizing 


 process that goes on in any war where armies face each other 


 and seek to destroy. We are adding cynicism to the process of 


 death, for they must know after a short period there that 


 none of the things we claim to be fighting for are really 


 involved. Before long they must know that their government 


 has sent them into a struggle among Vietnamese, and the more 


 sophisticated surely realize that we are on the side of the 


 wealthy, and the secure, while we create a hell for the poor.



 Somehow this madness must cease. We must stop now. I speak 


 as a child of God and brother to the suffering poor of 


 Vietnam. I speak for those whose land is being laid waste, 


 whose homes are being destroyed, whose culture is being 


 subverted. I speak for the poor of America who are paying the 


 double price of smashed hopes at home, and death and 


 corruption in Vietnam. I speak as a citizen of the world, for 


 the world as it stands aghast at the path we have taken. I 


 speak as one who loves America, to the leaders of our own 


 nation: The great initiative in this war is ours; the 


 initiative to stop it must be ours.


Madam Speaker, these words were spoken by Dr. King 1 year to the day 
before his death. Thus it is that nearly 40 years after his death, Dr. 
King continues to teach us all.








The Life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.


Martin Luther King, Jr. was born in Atlanta, Georgia, on January 15, 
1929.

Martin's youth was spent in our country's Deep South, then run by Jim 
Crow and the Klu Klux Klan. For a young African-American, it was an 
environment even more dangerous than the one they face today.

A young Martin managed to find a dream, one that he pieced together 
from his readings--in the Bible, and literature, and just about any 
other book he could get his hands on. And not only did those books help 
him educate himself, but they also allowed him to work through the 
destructive and traumatic experiences of blatant discrimination, and 
the discriminatory abuse inflicted on himself, his family, and his 
people.


The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., that we celebrate here today 
could have turned out to be just another African American who would 
have had to learn to be happy with what he had, and what he was 
allowed. But he learned to use his imagination and his dreams to see 
right through those ''White Only'' signs--to see the reality that all 
men, and women, regardless of their place of origin, their gender, or 
their creed, are created equal.

Through his studies, Dr. King learned that training his mind and 
broadening his intellect effectively shielded him from the demoralizing 
effects of segregation and discrimination.

Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., was a dreamer. His dreams were a tool 
through which he was able to lift his mind beyond the reality of his 
segregated society, and into a realm where it was possible that white 
and black, red and brown, and all others live and work alongside each 
other and prosper.

But Martin Luther King, Jr., was not just an idle daydreamer. He 
shared his visions through speeches that motivated others to join in 
his nonviolent effort to lift themselves from poverty and isolation by 
creating a new America where equal justice and institutions were facts 
of life.

In the Declaration of Independence in 1776, Thomas Jefferson wrote, 
''We hold these truths to be self evident, that all Men are Created 
Equal.'' At that time and for centuries to come, African Americans were 
historically, culturally, and legally excluded from inclusion in that 
declaration.

Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King's ''I Have a Dream'' Speech, 
delivered on August 28, 1963, was a clarion call to each citizen of 
this great Nation that we still hear today. His request was simply and 
eloquently conveyed--he asked America to allow of its citizens to live 
out the words written in its Declaration of Independence and to have a 
place in this Nation's Bill of Rights.

The sixties were a time of great crisis and conflict. The dreams of 
the people of this country were filled with troubling images that arose 
like lava from the nightmares of violence and the dissension that they 
had to face, both domestically and internationally.

It was the decade of the Cuban missile crisis, the Vietnam war, and 
the assassinations of President John Fitzgerald Kennedy, Malcolm X, 
Presidential Candidate Robert Kennedy, and the man we honor here today.

Dr. Martin Luther King's dream helped us turn the corner on civil 
rights. It started with a peaceful march for suffrage that started in 
Selma, Alabama, on March 7, 1965--a march that ended with violence at 
the hands of law enforcement officers as the marchers crossed the 
Edmund Pettus Bridge. But the dream did not die there.

Dr. King led the Montgomery bus boycott, often with Rosa Parks. The 
boycott lasted for 381 days, as an end result, the United States 
Supreme Court outlawed racial segregation on all public transportation. 
Dr. King used several nonviolent tactics to protest against Jim Crow 
laws in the South. Furthermore, he organized and led demonstrations for 
desegregation, labor and voting rights.

On April 4, 1967, at Riverside Church in New York City, he spoke out 
against the Vietnam War, when he saw the devastation that his nation 
was causing abroad and the effect that it had on the American men and 
women sent overseas. I quote:




 . . . it became clear to me that the war was doing far more 


 than devastating the hopes of the poor at home. It was 


 sending their sons and their brothers and their husbands to 


 fight and to die in extraordinarily high proportions relative 


 to the rest of the population. We were taking the black young 


 men who had been crippled by our society and sending them 


 eight thousand miles away to guarantee liberties in Southeast 


 Asia which they had not found in southwest Georgia and East 


 Harlem.


When the life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., was stolen from us, he 
was a very young 39 years old. People remember that Dr. King died in 
Memphis, but few can remember why he was there.

On that fateful day in 1968 Dr. King came to Memphis to support a 
strike by the city's sanitation workers. The garbage men there had 
recently formed a chapter of the American Federation of State, County 
and Municipal Employees to demand better wages and working conditions. 
But the city refused to recognize their union, and when the 1,300 
employees walked off their jobs the police broke up the rally with mace 
and billy clubs. It was then that union leaders invited Dr. King to 
Memphis. Despite the danger he might face entering such a volatile 
situation, it was an invitation he could not refuse. Not because he 
longed for danger, but because the labor movement was intertwined with 
the civil rights movement for which he had given up so many years of 
his life.



The death of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., will never 
overshadow his life. That is his legacy as a dreamer and a man of 
action. It is a legacy of hope, tempered with peace. It is a legacy not 
quite yet fulfilled.

I hope that Dr. King's vision of equality under the law is never lost 
to us, who in the present, toil in times of unevenness in our equality. 
For without that vision--without that dream--we can never continue to 
improve on the human condition.

For those who have already forgotten, or whose vision is already 
clouded with the fog of complacency, I would like to recite the words 
of the good Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., himself:




 I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia the 


 sons of former slaves and the sons of former shareholders 


 will be able to sit down together at the table of 


 brotherhood.



 I have a dream that one day even the State of Mississippi, 


 a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering 


 with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an 


 oasis of freedom and justice. I have a dream that my four 


 little children will one day live in a nation where they will 


 not be judged by the color of their skin, but for the content 


 of their character. I have a dream today.



 I have a dream that one day down in Alabama with its 


 vicious racists, with its Governor having his lips dripping 


 with words of interposition and nullification--one day right 


 there in Alabama, little black boys and black girls will be 


 able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as 


 sisters and brothers.



 I have a dream today.



 I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, 


 every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough place 


 will be made plain and the crooked places will be made 


 straight, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and 


 all flesh shall see it together.


Dr. King's dream did not stop at racial equality, his ultimate dream 
was one of human equality. There is no doubt that Dr. King supported 
freedom and justice for every individual in America. We continue that 
fight today and forever, in the great spirit that inspired the Rev. Dr. 
Martin Luther King, Jr.

Madam Speaker, I thank all my colleagues for being here and 
remembering Dr. King's dream and for all that has been done to keep his 
dream alive.