# None
## `b8d71d11dbc8a1043790c108a7e7a866`
`Mr. CARDIN â€” 7 July 2009`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I take this time as the Chairman of the 
U.S. Helsinki Commission, for which I had the opportunity to lead a 
delegation of 13 members representing the United States at the 18th 
Annual Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and 
Cooperation in Europe. We attended meetings in Europe, along with 
representatives, parliamentarians from 56 countries representing 
Europe, central Asia, Canada, and the United States.

We first decided to stop in Bosnia, and we did that because I am sure 
my colleagues recall the bloody conflict that erupted in the former 
Yugoslavia, in Bosnia, in which communities were dislocated and people 
were killed because of their ethnic background.

We found in Bosnia, because of outside interference, the three ethnic 
communities that had coexisted for many years were drawn into a 
conflict. The United States, in the Dayton Accords, took the leadership 
in trying to figure out a way in which we could get the ethnic 
communities to live together in peace. As a result of the Dayton 
Accords, there was this government established for Bosnia which is a 
bit unusual. There are three Presidents, one representing the orthodox 
community, the Serbs, one representing the ethnic Bosnians, and one 
representing the ethnic Croats. And this government brought an end to 
the open violence.

But we knew in recent weeks and months there had been problems in 
Bosnia. So we traveled to Sarajevo to talk to all of the ethnic 
community leaders to see what was happening. And I must tell you, there 
has been progress in that region, particularly with the neighboring 
countries that are now progressing, some of which are our strong allies 
in NATO, and we have seen progress to integration in Europe. So we can 
take pride in what we have been able to achieve in that region of 
Europe in the Balkans.

But Bosnia needs our attention. I am pleased we were there. I think 
it is clear to each member of our delegation that if Bosnia is going to 
be able to continue its integration into Europe--we hope that will 
occur--if Bosnia is going to be able to move on a path toward NATO 
membership, it needs to have constitutional reform so it has a 
functioning federal government protecting the rights of the three 
entities. But it needs to have a government that can function, and 
during our trip I think we delivered that message. We were there 
shortly after Vice President Biden was there.

We then traveled to Vilnius, where the annual meeting was taking 
place. But we took the opportunity to visit Minsk in Belarus. We did 
that because Belarus is a repressive state in which the President, Mr. 
Lukashenko, rules with an iron fist. The political opposition is denied 
the normal opportunities of a government.

We went there because we wanted to have an opportunity to advance the 
OSCE principles. The Helsinki Commission, which is our arm in 
implementing the OSCE, is known for advancing human rights, it is known 
for advancing economic cooperation, it is known for advancing security 
issues. And we went to Belarus because we wanted that country, which is 
a member of OSCE, to live up to its OSCE commitments, to allow its 
people basic human rights, the right of a free press, the right to 
express their views, the right to challenge their government 
peacefully, the right to organize the religions of their choice, and 
the right for economic reform, which is being denied to the people of 
Belarus. We met with President Lukashenko, and we met with the leaders 
of the different factions, of the activists.

We also carried a humanitarian request. There was an American, Mr. 
Zeltser, Emanual Zeltser, who was imprisoned in Belarus. We do not know 
why he was imprisoned. There were secret indictments and a secret 
trial. The United States was not permitted to monitor the trial. He was 
sentenced to 3 years. He has a very serious medical condition. It is 
believed he could not survive if he remained in Belarusian prisons. So 
we carried a humanitarian request that he be released. Mr. Lukashenko 
had the power to do that, and we were very pleased that our 
humanitarian request was granted. During our meetings, the President 
told us he would honor our request that he be released immediately, and 
Mr. Zeltser was released later that afternoon, and he is now back in 
safe care. So we appreciated that effort, and we hope that represents a 
change in the direction of Belarus.

We made it clear that if the Belarusian Government made concrete 
steps toward the OSCE-type reforms on human rights, on economics, and 
other issues, then it would be a signal to the international community 
that we would bring Belarus more into the family of nations.

This Congress passed the Democracy Act, which imposed sanctions 
against Belarus because of their repressive regime. I hope our trip, 
which was the highest delegation to visit Belarus in over a decade, 
will be the first step to seeing change in that country and a better 
relationship between Belarus and other countries in Europe and the 
United States.

The main reason for our visit was to go to Vilnius, Lithuania, to 
participate in the Parliamentary Assembly. One member of our delegation 
visited Latvia in order to advance relations. At the Parliamentary 
Assembly, I was pleased that Congressman Robert Aderholt was elected 
vice chairman of the Third Committee, which is human rights. There are 
only three committees in the OSCE: for human rights, economics, and 
security. An American, Congressman Aderholt, will be vice chairman of 
the Human Rights Committee. I was elected vice president. That follows 
in the footsteps of Congressman Alcee Hastings, former President of the 
Parliamentary Assembly.

The United States proposed three resolutions in addition to the 
normal work. All three were adopted--one on maternal mortality, one on 
Afghanistan encouraging the Obama administration's policies in 
Afghanistan, and one on Internet freedom. All three of these 
resolutions were adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly.

We also recommended 26 amendments to the core resolutions. All 26 
amendments were adopted. I wish to cover some quickly because I think 
they are important to U.S. policy and we now have the support of the 
OSCE, of the European and central Asian communities in advancing these 
goals.

One was to seek Pakistan's interest in becoming an OSCE partner. They 
are not eligible for membership because it is central Asia, Europe, and 
North America. But we have partners in cooperation that work with us. 
We have Mediterranean partners, including Israel and Jordan and Egypt. 
We have Asian partners that belong, including Afghanistan. We think it 
would be helpful if Pakistan sought membership as a partner in 
cooperation within OSCE. By way of example, OSCE has a mission in 
Afghanistan that deals with border security. They know how to do nation 
building, how to help countries. We think that could be useful in 
dealing with U.S. policies against terrorists in Afghanistan and 
Pakistan if both had an arrangement with the Organization for Security 
and Cooperation in Europe. That amendment was approved by the 
Parliamentary Assembly.

We offered another amendment dealing with combating anti-Semitism. 
The U.S. Helsinki Commission has been a leader in developing strategies 
to deal with the rise of anti-Semitism. We have made a lot of progress. 
We continued to make progress at this meeting in dealing with the rise 
of anti-Semitism.

There were amendments offered dealing with water issues, energy, 
climate change, and preserving cultural heritage sites. We had a very 
active delegation, and we advanced many causes that were important to 
the United States.



We had bilateral meetings. We met with our counterparts from Russia 
to try to improve the dialog between Russia and the United States. This 
was a day or two before the meeting of our Presidents in Moscow. I 
think it is in keeping with the Obama strategy of trying to have a more 
effective dialog between the United States and Russia. We have 
differences, but we need to understand each other's positions to try to 
bring about the type of change that would be in the interests of both 
countries. We underscored those points during our bilateral meetings 
with the Russian parliamentarians.

We also met with the parliamentarians from Georgia. We were very 
disappointed that the OSCE mission in Georgia was terminated as a 
result of Russia's veto of the continuation of that mission. That 
mission deals with conflict prevention. It is there to keep peace in 
Georgia, where we know there is still the potential for conflict to 
erupt at any moment. We had a chance to meet with the Georgia 
parliamentarians to go over those issues.

We met with the parliamentarians from Lithuania. The last time I was 
in Lithuania was February 1991, when the Soviet tanks were in 
Lithuania, where they had taken over the TV towers. We returned to the 
TV towers. We were there in 1991 and saw the tragedy that the Soviets 
had committed in that country. We also went to the parliament building, 
where it was barricaded in 1991 because of Soviet tanks. Now we were 
able to enter a free country, a close ally of the United States, a 
member of NATO. It was a proud moment to return to that site and see 
what has happened. The United States has a proud record of always 
recognizing the independence of Lithuania and never recognizing the 
Soviet takeover of that independent country. We had a chance to meet 
with the President. We had a chance to meet with the parliamentarians, 
and we met with the Prime Minister. We mentioned an issue that is still 
pending that needs to be resolved; that is, property restitution issues 
and community property issues dating back to the Nazi occupation. We 
urged the Lithuanian Parliament to promptly pass an appropriate law so 
that the payments can be made to the appropriate victims as quickly as 
possible since many of the families are dying out and it is important 
that this issue be handled as quickly as possible. I hope Lithuania 
will follow through on those recommendations.

We had a very busy agenda. I am very proud of the work of each member 
of our delegation. We advanced the interests of the United States. We 
will be following through on the different discussions we had to make 
sure progress continues in each of these areas. It was an honor to 
represent the Senate with the Helsinki Commission. We will keep 
Senators informed on the progress we are making.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.