# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-80)
## `b93ad622541af0cc819c608eeb65c464`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia â€” 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Madam Speaker, this issue boils down to a 
practicality of ideology. The Republicans and the Bush administration 
has repeatedly shown that they really quite honestly do not get it when 
it comes down to health care, and particularly for those who need the 
health care the most. This is not just the beginning of this. This 
argument started back during the winter when there were 17 States who 
came up short, and we fought and we fought to try to get that shortage 
fixed. But there was no help until I drafted an amendment, went to the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Murtha), and we attached it to the 
Iraq war supplemental. That is the only way President Bush and the 
administration signed it.

Now, let me just point out two important points. There are scare 
tactics being used here. Anytime the Republicans and those on the other 
side want to score a point, they bring up the bogeyman of illegal 
immigration; these people are going to be illegal aliens. There's 
nothing in this bill. As a matter of fact, there's express language 
that prohibits in this bill any illegal immigrant or undocumented 
person from being eligible for this children's health program.

You talk about there are adults on the bill. There are no adults on 
this bill except an adult who happens to be pregnant with child for 
prenatal care. Should they not have that care? That strikes at the 
heart of this bill.

I urge everyone to not go with this sad argument and let's sustain 
and override this veto coming up on January 23.