# REPEAL THE DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL POLICY
## `b95cbe97683b64d6b035ec71f01e0779`
`Ms. BALDWIN â€” 6 October 2009`

---


Ms. BALDWIN. I want to thank my friend and colleague both for your 
service to your country and for your leadership on this very critical 
issue. And also thank you for yielding me some time this evening to 
talk about it.

I join you in strong support of H.R. 1283, the Military Readiness 
Enhancement Act. We have heard throughout the evening in 1993 Congress 
passed Don't Ask, Don't Tell, a law mandating the discharge of openly 
gay, lesbian, or bisexual servicemembers.

At the time, this law was intended as sort of a compromise to allow 
gay and lesbian servicemembers to serve in the military so long as they 
did not disclose their sexual orientation, so long as they hid being 
gay, lesbian, or bisexual. In other words, this compromise required our 
servicemembers to conceal, at best, or to lie, at worst. And in an 
organization such as our military where trust and unit cohesion is so 
important, this was just untenable.

Fifteen years later, we know that Don't Ask, Don't Tell is misguided, 
unjust, and, flat out, it is a discriminatory policy. Not only does 
Don't Ask, Don't Tell damage the lives and livelihoods of our military 
professionals, it deprives our Armed Forces of their honorable service 
and needed skills.

The armed services have discharged almost 800 mission critical troops 
and at least 59 Arabic and nine Farsi linguists under Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell in the last 5 years. This is just indefensible.

Further, the financial cost alone of implementing Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell from fiscal year 1994 through 2003 was more than $363 million. 
Now, we can't afford to lose any more dedicated and talented 
servicemembers to Don't Ask, Don't Tell, and surely we can put these 
dollars, these resources, to much better use.



Earlier this summer I had the pleasure of meeting Air Force 
Lieutenant Colonel Victor Fehrenbach. He's an exceptional serviceman 
who's being discharged under the Don't Ask, Don't Tell law. Lieutenant 
Colonel Fehrenbach has honorably served his country for 18 years as an 
F-15E pilot. He received nine Air Medals, including a medal for heroism 
during the 2003 invasion of Iraq. And he was handpicked to protect 
airspace over Washington, D.C. after the Pentagon was attacked on 
September 11, 2001.

Lieutenant Colonel Fehrenbach, who has flown combat missions in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, against the Taliban and al Qaeda, continues to serve 
while the recommendation for his honorable discharge moves forward to a 
review board and eventually to the Secretary of the Air Force. Just 2 
years away from his 20-year retirement, this dedicated serviceman 
stands to lose $46,000 a year in retirement and medical benefits for 
the rest of his life if he's discharged.

There are approximately one million lesbian and gay veterans in the 
United States today, as well as 65,000 lesbian and gay servicemembers 
currently serving in our Armed Forces. Like Lieutenant Colonel 
Fehrenbach, these brave servicemembers are fighting and dying for their 
country in two wars. They're making sacrifices, and some are making the 
ultimate sacrifice, just like their straight counterparts. It makes no 
sense, and I just believe it's flat out wrong to discharge capable 
servicemembers for something as irrelevant as their sexual orientation.

Now, as my colleagues have discussed this evening, the Military 
Readiness Act would prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual 
orientation against any member of the Armed Forces or any person 
seeking to become a member. Further, the Act would authorize the re-
accession into the Armed Forces of otherwise qualified individuals 
previously separated under Don't Ask, Don't Tell.

Finally, the Act would require that regulations governing the 
personal conduct of members of the Armed Forces are written and 
enforced without regard to sexual orientation. It's long past time for 
Congress to act to end discrimination against gays, lesbians and 
bisexuals in our Armed Forces by passing the Military Readiness 
Enhancement Act. So I stand ready to join my colleagues in repealing 
this dishonorable law as soon as possible and restoring justice and 
equality in our Armed Forces.

Mr. Speaker, before I conclude, I really do want to commend you, my 
colleague from Pennsylvania, Congressman Patrick Murphy, for your bold 
leadership and your work in helping us move closer to repealing Don't 
Ask, Don't Tell. You have taken the lead in advancing this bill, and I 
look forward to working with you to see that day come.