# FILIPINO VETERANS
## `b98eaccf3e93508a7cead4ab6477bd88`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, I come to the floor this afternoon to 
speak again on behalf of S. 1315, the Veterans' Benefits Enhancement 
Act.

At the outset, I wish to commend Senator Akaka for his leadership in 
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, as well as the ranking member, 
Senator Burr, for having brought together a package, which is a good 
one, which is now on the floor of the Senate. I hope our colleagues 
come together tomorrow to pass this important legislation for the 
veterans of America.

The bill expands eligibility for traumatic injury insurance; extends 
eligibility for specially adapted housing benefits for veterans with 
severe burns; increases benefits for veterans pursuing apprenticeships 
or on-job training programs; and a whole host of other benefits that 
are needed for the veterans of America. It is especially crucial at 
this time because of the fact that we have so many returning veterans 
from Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom.

This is legislation that will help not only those veterans but the 25 
million veterans we have here in America. I am proud to be a cosponsor 
of this legislation. I urge my colleagues to fully support it.

The issue of debate, which has, frankly, kept this legislation from 
receiving a unanimous consent vote in the Senate has been the issue of 
the treatment for veterans benefits of the Filipino warriors from World 
War II. I wish to remind our colleagues there were 470,000 Filipino 
veterans that volunteered and served to preserve the freedoms of the 
world during World War II; that approximately 200,000 of them were with 
the Philippine Commonwealth Army, with the Philippine Army Air Corps, 
and the Philippine Army Offshore Patrol.

Today, there are about 18,000 of those warriors who now live in the 
United States of America. In my view, we cannot forget the sacrifices 
these Filipino warriors made as they fought side by side with American 
troops in World War II. They constituted the vast majority of the 
80,000 soldiers who defended the Bataan Peninsula during the Japanese 
invasion. They constituted the vast majority of the soldiers who were 
forced on the Bataan Death March. The provisions in this legislation 
that deal with the benefits for Filipino veterans--and most of them are 
in their late seventies and eighties--are provisions we should support 
in the Senate.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record the order from 
President Franklin Roosevelt, dated July 26, 1941, concerning his order 
placing the Philippine Army under the control of the United States 
Department of Defense.