# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `b9faa186158a681b922d2fb24e4e6eb9`
`Mr. McKEON â€” 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Rules Committee ranking member, 
Mr. Dreier, for yielding the time.

Mr. Speaker, the majority leader pointed out that all of us are going 
to have a chance to express our views. Some different views have been 
expressed here this morning. But the way our system works after all of 
our views are expressed, we have a Commander in Chief. The Commander in 
Chief last year took 90 days to thoroughly study the effort in 
Afghanistan. He made a decision. The decision was that we carry a 
counterinsurgency war to make our security safe so that al Qaeda and 
the Taliban cannot have a safe haven from which they could continue to 
launch attacks on us. In carrying out that strategy, he placed General 
McChrystal in charge of the troops and he approved 30,000 additional 
troops for the area. He also requested that we send an additional $33 
billion to support those troops.

Now we know about the tragedy with General McChrystal. We know that 
his resignation was accepted. We know that the President nominated 
General Petraeus to take his place. General Petraeus appeared before 
the Senate last week and again reiterated the need for this money, as 
Secretary Gates had the week before. He said that if we didn't get this 
money, we had to start doing stupid things. General Petraeus was 
unanimously confirmed by the Senate. He is on his way right now to 
Kabul to take over this command. And we're here debating a rule that 
will delay further the money that those troops need over there.

Sunday is the Fourth of July. George Washington on the 9th of July in 
1776 was so impressed by that Declaration of Independence that he had 
all of the Continental Army come to ranks and have that document read 
to them. We're going to be reminded again of that Sunday, and how 
important it is for us to follow our Commander in Chief and to give our 
troops the things they need.