# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `ba70c4800ad266e44d2b7df46838c7c7`
`Mr. HOLT â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. HOLT. I thank my friend from Wisconsin.

Mr. Speaker, 4 years ago, President Bush used soldiers and sailors as 
stage props to declare that major combat operations in Iraq have ended. 
Well, indeed those combat operations should have ended, in fact, they 
never should have begun. This combat is constitutionally and 
strategically unjustifiable, operationally poorly executed with regard 
to armoring and deploying the troops, and politically and 
diplomatically disastrous.

This war is not making anyone more safer or more free, and it cannot 
be won militarily. As retired General Odom said, the challenge we face 
today is not how to win in Iraq but how to recover from a strategic 
mistake, invading Iraq in the first place.

The President continues to squander American influence, blood and 
treasure. It is the President's intransigence that forces us to pass 
this bill to force a change in the course in Iraq. The President needs 
to know that the days of congressional blank checks in support of a 
failed policy are over. We cannot continue to buy time with American 
lives.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of our troops and for ending 
President Bush's war in Iraq.

This bill gives the President all the money he needs to ensure our 
troops have the equipment, ammunition, fuel, food, spare parts, and 
anything else they need to ensure their safety and security. What this 
bill does not give the President is the blank check with no questions 
and no accountability that he's come to expect over the last 4 years. 
Those days are over.

Yesterday's Washington Post front page story on the President's 
''surge'' strategy was entitled ''Commanders in Iraq See 'Surge' Into 
'08.'' While General Petreaus told the Congress earlier this year that 
we could determine the effectiveness of the troop increase within 
several months, General Odierno is trying to ''get until April (2008, 
that is) so we can decide whether to keep it going or not.''

If the Post's report is accurate--that the surge that was supposed to 
last several months will now last for well over a year--then it is more 
imperative than ever that we place clear limits on our future 
involvement in Iraq. We cannot continue to buy time with American lives 
and taxpayer dollars to support a fundamentally flawed policy.

Nor should we continue down this road when the Iraqis themselves fail 
to take the steps necessary to heal the divisions in their own country. 
Americans deserve to know that Iraq's government is about to take a 2-
month vacation--while Baghdad burns and American troops continue to die 
daily amid the crossfire of Iraq's civil war. As the current U.S. troop 
''surge'' reaches completion around mid-June, Iraq's parliament will 
adjourn for 2 months.

If Iraq's government is prepared to go AWOL in the middle of their 
civil war, why should we stay? Why should more of our troops die to 
help protect a government that leaves town with the battle raging on 
the streets of Baghdad?

I want to thank my friend, the gentleman from Massachusetts, Mr. 
McGovern, for offering his own blueprint for redeploying our forces 
from Iraq. I'm pleased to be able to support this measure, and I 
commend Mr. McGovern for his relentless commitment to help this House 
get it right on Iraq--to demand accountability for those responsible 
for the situation in Iraq.

That's what this debate is really about: getting Iraq's leaders to 
take responsibility for their country's security and its future. We 
can't end their civil war--only they can, but only if their political 
leaders cancel their 2-month vacation and get down to the hard work of 
building a new Iraq.

If enacted, this bill would incentivize them to do exactly that--it 
would force them to focus their full energies on reaching a political 
solution to Iraq's civil war, or face the prospect of a cut off in U.S. 
aid.

Mr. Speaker, President Bush announced his intention to veto this bill 
before it ever came to the House floor. His veto threat proves that 
he's more interested in continuing his war with Congress than he is in 
finding a bipartisan solution to the war in Iraq. That threat is all 
the more reason why we need to pass this bill so we can do what the 
American people have asked us to do: to end America's tragic 
misadventure in Iraq.