# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `ba7f28dadadef4a88790ddc28b871bfb`
`Mr. COCHRAN â€” 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, it is very difficult to listen to the 
criticism of those who have not known Leslie Southwick in the context 
and with the experiences of those, obviously, who have worked with him, 
observed him in close range as a fellow lawyer, seen him take positions 
of public support for candidates who were running for office in 
Mississippi, being active in our Republican Party in Mississippi; being 
admired widely by all who have come to know him, practicing law with 
him, observing him as a lecturer at the Mississippi College School of 
Law, observing him serving voluntarily as an officer in the Mississippi 
National Guard, the U.S. Army Reserves, being deployed to Iraq, 
volunteering for duty to serve as a judge advocate, and accompanying 
Mississippi soldiers who were deployed to that region in time of war.


He didn't have to do that. He is way beyond the age of most of those 
who were engaged in that operation and in that responsibility to 
protect the security interests of our country.

It is so inconsistent--all of that--to those of us who know this 
nominee compared with the harsh, shrill pronouncements being made on 
this floor of the U.S. Senate by leaders of the opposition to this 
nomination. I am not going to criticize their right to disagree with 
those of us who support Judge Southwick, but I do want to point out 
that I hope Senators will look at the record that has been accumulated 
in the Senate as a result of statements made by Senator Lott, me, and 
others who have known Judge Southwick and others who are the most 
respectable and trustworthy people in our State and Nation who have a 
totally different view of him as a person and of his record as an 
appellate judge, as a lawyer, and as a professor of law.

I hope Senators will take a look at who is saying what and base a 
judgment on this nomination on the things that have been said and the 
information that has been made available to the Senate from those who 
have spent time with Judge Southwick, who know him, or whether that 
will be outweighed by the harsh and shrill blandishments and criticisms 
and hyperbole and exaggerations and inaccuracies in the description of 
this person as a lawyer, as an individual, as a citizen who is here 
being subjected to totally unfounded criticism.

I hope those words aren't too harsh. I believe they are just as true 
and accurate as can be. And it would be a disgrace on this body to 
block the confirmation, to vote against invoking cloture which, in 
effect, would kill the nomination. We are going to vote on whether to 
invoke cloture. It will take 60 votes to shut off debate so we can get 
to a vote on the confirmation.

I have spoken on the floor on two or three occasions on this subject, 
back in June, I think, the first time. I have been reading the Record 
and looking at what I said July 19, 2007. I included after my remarks 
letters that I had received and that the committee had received from 
lawyers, judges, and acquaintances of Leslie Southwick over the past 30 
years of his life. I am not going to burden the Record by putting all 
those letters in or reading them or reading excerpts from them, but 
these are some of the finest people, and some of them are liberal 
Democrats. Some of them are active today as elected officials in our 
State. Others are just fellow lawyers, people who have worked with him 
closely, a State supreme court justice. Former Gov. William Winter is 
an example.

This morning, I found on my desk in my office when I came to work a 
letter that had been faxed to me, I guess, this morning. At 9:01 a.m. 
it was received in my office. It is from the Secretary of State of 
Mississippi, Eric Clark. And because this is a new letter, I think I 
will read it. It is actually addressed to me and Senator Lott:




 Dear Senator Cochran and Senator Lott:



 I sat at home last night and listened on C-SPAN to the 


 debate on Judge Leslie Southwick, and I feel compelled to 


 write you this letter.



 I am the senior Democratic elected official in Mississippi. 


 I have been elected to office eight times as a Democrat. I am 


 retiring from politics in January, so I have no ax to grind 


 by commenting on this debate. During my entire career in 


 public service, I have aggressively promoted the inclusion of 


 all Mississippians, and particularly African-Americans, at 


 the decision-making table in Mississippi. I take a back seat 


 to no one in promoting inclusion in our state.





 It has been my pleasure to know Leslie Southwick for more 


 than twenty years. If I had to name one person who is kind, 


 fair, smart, thoughtful, and open-minded, it would be Leslie 


 Southwick. For any Senators who have been told or who have 


 concluded otherwise, that is wrong--as wrong as it can be.



 We in Mississippi are quite accustomed to being the objects 


 of negative stereotyping. Of course, it is much easier to 


 believe a stereotype about someone than to make the effort to 


 get to know that person. It is perfectly clear to me that 


 this is what is happening to Judge Southwick.



 It seems to me that what is being decided in this case is 


 not whether Leslie Southwick would be a good and fair judge--


 we could not have a better or fairer one. What is being 


 decided, I think, is whether the United States Senate 


 considers judicial nominees based on truth and merit, or 


 based on politics and partisanship.



 Let me make my point as plainly as I can: Leslie Southwick 


 is the polar opposite of an ignorant and bigoted judge--the 


 polar opposite of that stereotype. I hope that the Senate 


 passes the test of recognizing the truth and acting 


 accordingly.



 Thank you. Sincerely, Eric Clark, Secretary of State of 


 Mississippi.
