# FIRING OF U.S. ATTORNEYS
## `ba8741637cf4c35b05f975b1104848b8`
`Mr. ALEXANDER â€” 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President, my late friend Alex Haley, the author 
of Roots, lived his life by 6 words: ''Find the Good and Praise It.'' I 
thought of those 6 words in connection with the current discussion 
about the firing of 8 United States Attorneys.

The Democrats are making political hay out of these firings at a time 
when the Senate should be focused on Iraq, terrorism, health care 
costs, excessive federal spending, energy independence and keeping our 
brainpower advantage so we can keep our good jobs here instead of 
seeing them move overseas.

U.S. Attorneys have always been political appointees serving at the 
pleasure of the president. President Clinton fired them all on his 
first day in office. Such partisanship is nothing new. Former Attorney 
General Griffin Bell recently said that the custom once was for U.S. 
attorneys simply to vacate their offices on the day a new president was 
inaugurated, knowing that new political appointees would soon arrive to 
take their desks.

In the summer of 1963, in between my first and second year at New 
York University Law School, I worked in Attorney General Robert 
Kennedy's office as an intern. I was so impressed that, after 
graduation, I drove to Chattanooga to apply for a job as an Assistant 
U.S. Attorney. The interview went fine until the U.S. Attorney for the 
Eastern District of Tennessee asked about my politics.



''I'm a Republican,'' I said.

''Sorry,'' he said, ''We only hire Democrats.''

''But the Attorney General said the administration of justice was 
non-partisan,'' I replied.

''That word hasn't gotten down here,'' the U.S. Attorney said.

Yet the historic political nature of these appointments is no excuse 
for the excessive partisanship, amateurishness and bumbling exhibited 
by the firing of these eight U.S. Attorneys in the middle of the 
President's term. The best way to put in relief what is wrong with 
these firings is to remember Alex Haley's admonition, ''Find the Good 
and Praise It,'' and point to an example of how political appointees 
can by their courageous action earn respect for the administration of 
justice.

I have a personal interest in the example I offer. Nearly 30 years 
ago--on January 17, 1979--I was sworn into office 3 days early as 
Governor of Tennessee in order to prevent the incumbent Governor from 
issuing 52 pardons and commutations to prisoners the FBI believed had 
paid cash for their release.

The U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee, Hal Hardin--a 
Democrat appointed by President Carter--telephoned to ask me to take 
office early. Hardin was working with the State attorney general, 
William Leech, another Democrat, to arrange the unprecedented early 
swearing-in. Because Hardin and Leech were able to rise above 
partisanship, the Speakers of the Senate and House and Chief Justice as 
well as the Secretary of State--also all Democrats--participated in my 
early swearing-in and the ouster of a Democratic incumbent Governor.

As it turned out, I was the only Republican in the group.

As then-Speaker of the House and later Governor Ned McWherter said, 
''We are Tennesseans first.''

The story of January 17, 1979 was recently retold by Judge William C. 
Koch, Jr., a member of the Tennessee Court of Appeals, in the March 
2007 issue of the Nashville Bar Journal. Judge Koch was on the staff of 
the State attorney general at that time and later was counsel when I 
was Governor.

In the spirit of ''Find the Good and Praise It,'' I offer for the 
Record Judge Koch's article as an example of how our system of 
political appointment of U.S. Attorneys can and should operate, in 
contrast to the example of the 8 firings and the response to those 
firings that we are discussing today.