# LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
## `bb77fd3c2f824da1e2d37daae4a930ae`
`Mr. HOYER â€” 27 January 2010`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman for his question. As you know, the 
President has not yet submitted his budget, so anticipating when we're 
going to pass it or bring his budget to the floor is a little 
premature. But I would certainly hope that we would bring it forward in 
the regular course of business. We're getting the budget significantly 
earlier this year. As you know, at the transition we get it later, as 
we did last year. But I expect to get it early. I think Mr. Spratt and 
Mr. Ryan will be working on the budget, and I expect it to come forward 
certainly either late in March, which is when I would expect it to come 
forward.

The Easter break, as you know, is the last week in March, first week 
in April, I believe, so I would be hopeful--let me make it clear: I'm 
not saying that's when it's going to happen, but I'd be hopeful we'd do 
it before we leave on the Easter break. And the second part of your 
question, which I think is the most important part of the question, 
because the other is speculative, I would expect the Congress to honor 
the President's suggestion of freeze with respect to the overall 
numbers on discretionary spending. But let me make an observation that 
I know you know, but I think it's important for us to remember that we 
have: There is no doubt the deficits that confront us are of very large 
proportions. It is, I think, a critical problem confronting our Nation, 
not just the Congress, but our Nation. It is an issue on which I think 
we need to focus and address.

I will tell my friend, as he knows, that with respect to the freeze, 
that deals with a relatively small portion of the budget, about 14 to 
15 percent of the budget. As the gentleman knows, defense discretionary 
spending is not covered by the President's. As you know as well, 
because of Afghanistan and Iraq, expenditures on defense have escalated 
substantially. And as the gentleman knows as well, the other portion of 
the budget deals with entitlements and interest payments on the 
national debt. So that I would simply observe that if we're going to 
get a handle on the budget and spending, sometimes people view spending 
as only spending on discretionary nondefense amounts. That's not 
accurate. Every nickel that we apply to some objective that we have 
decided to apply it to is spending. And we're, frankly, going to have 
to look at the whole gamut of spending if we're going to get back to a 
fiscal balance, which I think is absolutely essential. I yield back.