# CONDEMNING THE ONGOING PALESTINIAN ROCKET ATTACKS ON ISRAELI CIVILIANS
## `bb8f261fb8d18b3fd3bc98de4f094f61`
`Mr. CANTOR â€” 5 March 2008`

---


Mr. CANTOR. Mr. Speaker, I commend those sponsors of the bill who 
brought this piece of legislation to the floor. And I rise to recount a 
story that I was told in August when I was in Israel with several of 
our colleagues. We visited a young family who was then living in 
Sderot. And the mother told a story about the pain that her children 
are living through and about the requirement that her kids now 
understand that wherever they go throughout their day, they must first 
know where the safe room is because they will know ultimately that 
rocket will sound and the kids will have to scurry to safety.

But what touched me the most about the story of this young family was 
the mother, again, explained how 2 years ago they uprooted their family 
from Gush Katif, a community in the south of Gaza when Israel pulled 
out of the Gaza Strip. And it was then that her children asked her, 
why, Mother? Why do we have to do this? And she explained to the 
children that they have to do this to give peace a chance so that they 
and the people of Israel could live in peace and live a normal life. 
And now where are they?

Clearly, a contagion of fear has spread across their community. But 
they should ask, what is it that they've done wrong to live under these 
kind of conditions?

And frankly, whatever conclusion the world comes to, we know now that 
the only crime they've committed is trying to live in freedom in a 
Jewish state. And that is what Hamas is going after, because for Hamas 
and their terrorist allies, the primary objective is to destroy Israel.

But important to all of us in this Congress is the fact that what 
befalls


Israel in its struggle against Hamas, its rockets and other attacks 
have severe implications for us in America and the rest of the 
civilized world. The Israeli people are squaring off against an arm of 
the radical Islamic movement that includes al Qaeda in Iraq, al Qaeda 
in northwest Pakistan and Afghanistan, as well as Hezbollah in Iran. 
Hamas' success and ability to win sympathy from the world will only 
motivate and encourage these various movements.

So, Mr. Speaker, as the United Nations engages in its denunciation of 
Israel's acts of defense, we in America must unite in solidarity with 
our only democratic ally in the Middle East, Israel.