# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `bbc42407a86f193aae34361d78eade46`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, the Senator from California is absolutely 
correct. It has always been the case that there are certain things you 
cannot predict in the coming year. You can budget for expected 
expenditures and programs you want to fund, but there are some things 
you probably cannot predict; for example, Hurricane Katrina is probably 
the prime example or a devastating drought or torrential rains or ice 
storms in California this spring. So what we have always done is we 
have always done emergency supplemental bills to try to respond to 
those. Only in this Presidency have those emergency bills 
overwhelmingly been defense bills because the President decided to move 
our armies overseas. We got involved with respect to Afghanistan and 
Iraq, and we asked for no expenditures, except he would later ask for 
emergency funding for it. We have passed roughly $450 billion in 
emergency funding for defense. That is not the basis, generally, of 
what emergency supplemental bills have been about. They have been to 
respond to the unanticipated events in this country, such as 
agricultural disasters and other things.

I said yesterday, when I spoke on the floor, I thought it curious 
that in the Senate, when we did an $18 billion emergency funding for 
reconstruction of Iraq, nobody stood up, that I am aware--and Senator 
Wyden and I cut it by about $1.8 billion--and said: OK. You are going 
to invest in health clinics. If you do that in Iraq, it is national 
security; if you do it in America, it is pork. You are going to invest 
in road programs. In Iraq, it is for national security; in America, it 
is called pork. You are going to invest in any number of dozens of 
other things, and as long as it is in Iraq with the reconstruction 
programs, that is OK, that is part of our national security issue. But 
if it is doing it in this country, they say, no, no, no, no, you cannot 
do that.

I observe one thing. Some of what we do is flatout spending. I 
understand that. We need to tighten our belts. But some of what we do 
is investing in this country's future. I think investing in this 
country's future includes saying to family farmers that this country 
values having you on the farm. You are the seedbed of family values 
that nourishes our country from the small towns to the big cities. 
Culturally and economically, you matter to this country.

When we pass a disaster bill that includes disaster help for family 
farmers, I think it represents the best instincts of this country and, 
frankly, it is what we must do if we are going to maintain a network of 
family farms producing America's food. Finally, we understand, all of 
us, that big corporations could probably farm from California to 
Maine--buy up the whole country and farm it. We know what would happen 
to food prices. Our country is much better served by having a network 
of family farmers out there, with their families living under yard 
lights, producing America's food supply. That is why I think the best 
instincts of this Congress is to do what we did in this legislation, to 
provide disaster help for those who need it.

I yield the floor.