# None
## `bbe9019464bf60c30d502eb9b7cd2d5c`
`Mr. LARSON of Connecticut â€” 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Ellen Tauscher has done a terrific job.

If the gentleman would yield just for a moment, when you're reading 
through these things, I can't help but think of the time, and I know 
that you hadn't arrived here on September 11. I served with your mom. I 
can remember a time when this entire Congress stood together on the 
steps of the Capitol after September 11 and spontaneously broke into 
God Bless America. It's a time that will be forever seared in my 
memory.

I remember a time in our caucus just this past year when the Speaker, 
the gentleman from New York, stood up, at a time when we knew that we 
only had and could only muster Democratic votes, stood up and gave a 
speech that I will always remember, that drew our caucus together and 
allowed us to go forward and place a bill on the President's desk. It 
was something that everyone said couldn't be done, the politics were 
too raw, people were too far apart, we couldn't possibly come together. 
But when people rise and find their voice as the Speaker from New York 
did, then great things can happen. A Nation can move. People find their 
voice because within their heart resides the great spirit of this 
country as you pointed out. Within every piece of legislation that 
you're chronicling here is a deep-seated belief on the part of its 
sponsors that this is the right thing to do. There are many on that 
side of the aisle who will disagree. I respect people's positions 
regardless of how they come to them. But I know the great reservoir 
that exists on that side of the aisle that understands what's going on, 
that events are unfolding daily around us and the need for us to act is 
now. That tomorrow has become today, that the urgency can't wait for 
September 15 for yet another report. The time is to act.

I plead for our colleagues on that side of the aisle, because, as Mr. 
Rich points out, it cannot happen without this Congress coming 
together. And so either we will stand together as a United States 
Congress and send a message and help this President find a way forward 
by demonstrating as a Congress did during Vietnam, no matter who the 
President is, that the right thing to do here is to bring our troops 
home safe, secure and strategically in a manner that will allow us to 
regroup and refocus and go after the enemy in Afghanistan where they 
continue to fester and grow and regroup, the people who actually 
knocked down the towers, the people who struck the Pentagon and but for 
those brave souls on Flight 93 would have surely hit this Capitol or 
the White House. It's time for us to come together in that spirit.

Mr. Meek, if it weren't for you and Debbie Wasserman Schultz and 
Chris Murphy and Tim Ryan coming here and repeatedly talking about it, 
if you're at home, you're thinking, has Congress forgot about this 
urgency. Do they not pick up the papers every day as we do? When I go 
home, and you said it, people talk about Iraq, they talk about Iraq, 
and then they talk about Iraq. The facts are that without Republican 
support, we cannot override a veto. The facts are that without a 
Republican Senate that will stop the cloture rule and Mr. Warner, or 
following the paths of a great American in Chuck Hagel, comes forward 
and speaks truth to power. There are people on both sides of the aisle 
that are great visionary Americans. We just need to come together at 
this time and find our voice in the same manner that Americans have 
already found theirs.

With that, Mr. Chairman, I thank you again.