# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-80)
## `bc871c937433555509fe909d4142d227`
`Ms. PELOSI â€” 12 December 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

I thank Mr. Hoyer for his leadership on this very important 
legislation. He has worked very hard to try to achieve a level of 
bipartisanship on this legislation that could override the President's 
veto. In the United States Senate, there is a substantial bipartisan 
majority large enough to override the President's veto. I hope that we 
could achieve that in this House. We are not going to take up that vote 
tonight, as has been indicated by Mr. Hoyer. That debate and that vote 
will take place on January 23.

It is just very interesting to hear the reasons why the President of 
the United States said veto to the children of America. Veto in Latin: 
I forbid. I forbid the children of America, the children of working 
families who play by the rules and want the best for their children, 
who are struggling to make ends meet and who need health care and the 
health care that keeps them in the workforce and off of welfare and off 
of Medicaid.

Madam Speaker, it is particularly interesting to hear in this debate 
on the omnibus bill where there is talk of hundreds of billions of 
dollars more for the war in Iraq. For 40 days in Iraq, we can insure 10 
million children in America; 40 days in Iraq, 10 million children in 
America. This is not an issue. This is a value. This is an ethic of the 
American people. The Democrats and Republicans, people of no party 
affiliation, everybody cares about the children of America. Over 80 
percent of the American people support the SCHIP expansion that we want 
to do to double the number of children.

So when the President says we have not met his objections, he is 
moving the goal post. In his first veto message, he said he is 
concerned about the fact that people making $80,000 would be eligible 
for SCHIP. Not so. The only way they could be eligible is if the 
President of the United States himself gave them a waiver. The 
President has given waivers to families making 300 percent of poverty. 
The President himself has given that waiver. And now he is complaining 
about that level of income for families, hardworking families to 
receive SCHIP.

The President said he is concerned that there are still adults in the 
program. The Democratic response, bipartisan, strong, with 45 
Republican votes, said that the adults would be phased out. The reason 
some of them are in there in the first place is that in order to get 
the children into the program, Governors had thought that it would be 
important to bring families into the program, and the President of the 
United States, President Bush's policy allowed that to happen. So he is 
turning his back on his own policy. He is turning his back on these 
children by saying their families should be off of SCHIP.

So when the President says he is opposed to the bill because it 
raises taxes, then we get to the heart of the matter. This bill is paid 
by an increase in the cigarette tax, and this is really why the 
President is vetoing the bill. The President is saying that rather than 
raise the cigarette tax, he would prefer to prevent an additional 5 
million children in our country from getting access to quality health 
care.

The President has also said in other comments about this legislation, 
everyone in America has access to health care; they can just go to the 
emergency room. That was probably one of the most ill-informed, with 
stiff competition for that honor, but nonetheless probably one of the 
most ill-informed statements that could ever be made by anyone dealing 
with public policy and access to health care.

So again, I think all the Members of Congress who voted for this in a 
very strong bipartisan way in the House and the Senate can take great 
pride in setting a high watermark for what this Congress should be 
doing for children of working families in America.

I salute Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Dingell, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Stark 
for their exceptional leadership. I also salute Mr. LaHood for what he 
tried to do to bring bipartisanship to all of this. I commend Senator 
Grassley and Senator Hatch for their courageous leadership in the 
Senate, in leading the way to a veto-proof majority of Democrats and 
Republicans in the United States Senate.

Whether you are talking about Easter Seals or the March of Dimes, the 
Association of Catholic Hospitals, AARP, AMA to YWCA, to everything 
alphabetically in between, everyone supports SCHIP except the President 
of the United States and those in this body who will side with him on 
this vote.

What a sad day. What a sad day that the President would say, rather 
than insuring 5 million children, I don't want to raise the cigarette 
tax. What a sad day when we would spend in 40 days in Iraq what it 
takes to insure 10 million children in America for 1 year. But we are 
not going to let this veto stand. We will act upon it and we will 
continue to fight the fight until 10 million children at a minimum in 
America have access to quality health care under the SCHIP program. It 
is the wish of the Governors.