# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `bcd696d9e091e7aa82a0ca1579fde0b3`
`Mr. TIAHRT â€” 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 3159, the so-
called ''Ensuring Military Readiness through Stability and 
Predictability Deployment Policy Act of 2007.'' This ill-conceived and 
dangerous piece of legislation will lead to American troops stuck in 
Iraq with no reinforcements and no replacements.

All Americans long for the day when our troops can return from 
foreign lands. With U.S. troops deployed in over 35 countries around 
the world, their families count the days until their loved ones come 
home. However, our Nation must never lose sight that each soldier, 
sailor, airmen, and marine has a mission to complete: to protect the 
citizens and interests of the United States.

H.R. 3159 has a lofty goal that is supported by every American, every 
Member of Congress, the Secretary of Defense and the President: to 
provide time at home to Iraq for our men and women in uniform between 
deployments. This legislation would require a one-to-one ratio between 
deployments in Iraq and home station for active duty forces, and a one-
to-three ratio for National Guard and Reserve. However, the Department 
of Defense, DoD, currently has higher standards of a one-to-two ratio 
between all deployments, regardless of location, for active forces and 
a one-to-five ratio for Reserve forces.

So, the question must be asked, why has H.R. 3159, with its lesser 
standards than DoD's own standards, elicited a Presidential veto, 
opposition from the U.S. Military leadership, and widespread resistance 
in Congress? Because this legislation is a political ruse and would do 
serious harm to our troops in Iraq and our national security.

Although this legislation would prohibit back-to-back deployments to 
Iraq, H.R. 3159 still would allow troops to deploy to Iraq and then to 
another nation, such as Afghanistan or the Philippines, without 
restriction. Let me be clear, contrary to the arguments of the 
Democrats, this legislation would not ensure dwell times for our 
troops.

However, it will do real harm to our troops in Iraq--leaving our 
troops without reinforcements and without replacements. H.R. 3159 would 
hinder the flexibility of Pentagon leaders to place troops where they 
are needed, and when they are needed. This legislation would not change 
the mission in Iraq or decrease the required number of troops. But it 
will force our troops to stay in Iraq longer--waiting for their 
replacements. And if additional troops are required--this bill would 
hinder any reinforcements from arriving in a timely fashion. Holding 
our troops without replacements or reinforcements does not constitute 
support, as Democrats have asserted.


Although it is true this bill includes a waiver provision--it only 
allows troops to be deployed after a 30-day congressional notification. 
During war, time is always of the essence. Throughout history, many 
battles and lives have been lost due to delays in reinforcements or 
replacements. When our military commanders urgently request a special 
operations or explosive ordinance disposal team, our President and 
military leadership needs to have the flexibility to send that team 
immediately. Under this legislation, the President would have to 
provide notification to Congress, wait 30 days, and then send these 
urgently needed forces. This is unacceptable.

Mr. Speaker, these are dangerous times for our troops and for our 
Nation. Our military commanders need the flexibility to effectively and 
safely carry out the will of this Nation. We must not hamstring our 
Nation's warriors. Therefore, I ask all my colleagues to join with me 
in opposition to this bill.
