# PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE COOPERATION ACT OF 2007
## `bcf37cb0ebcf974df4722ef92cb1b4bc`
`Mr. BURR â€” 14 May 2008`

---


Mr. BURR. Madam President, I thank the Presiding Officer and I thank 
my colleague, Senator Graham, and I really do thank my colleagues from 
both sides of the aisle who have come to the floor and talked about the 
GI bill and the fact that we were asleep for a number of years from the 
standpoint of making changes in the law that reflect the cost of 
education.

But what I want my colleagues to understand and the public to 
understand is that the Department of Defense used what we call 
education kickers to provide retention tools for our Active-Duty 
troops. Throughout this whole period, as they saw promising service men 
and women and they wanted them to stay in the military, they used what 
we call education kickers. They upped the amount of their education 
benefit if they would re-up for a period of time--3 years, 5 years, 6 
years.

So to say that $1,100 was the ceiling, that is not accurate. The fact 
is, we have reached a point in time when we need to change the number 
in the law, what the base amount is that is the promise this country is 
making to our service men and women when they serve. I think it is 
appropriate, given we have gone through a decade--and I am sure most 
Americans would not find this hard to believe--where the highest area 
of inflation in America over the last 10 years has not been health 
care. It has been higher education. For any parent who is going through 
higher education with a child today, they know exactly what that 
means--that it costs a whole lot to go there.

Senator Webb deserves a lot of credit because for 18 months he has 
talked about changing our financial level of commitment. I have to say 
that has been healthy for the men and women who are serving. It has 
been healthy for this Senate to begin the debate on it. I do not want 
anybody to leave this debate and feel we are not both headed in the 
same direction. It is just that I have some fundamental disagreements 
with the way he structured it.

I believe there is a way to fulfill the promise, that if you serve, 
then we are going to commit to you, we are going to provide you with a 
quality education. When my dad came back from the Second World War, he 
had most of his education paid for before he left, but this is not 
something he went out and shopped. This is not something where he said: 
Gee, there is a benefit. Let me find the most expensive place I can go, 
and let me exercise it there. He focused on what he wanted to be and 
where the tools were that were available to him.

Sometimes we have to stop for a minute and reflect: What are the 
unintended consequences of what we do in this body? Well, one thing 
with the Webb bill is we disregard the fact that part of higher 
education comes out of the Department of Education today. It is called 
Pell grants. For those service men and women who qualify for them, that 
goes toward their education. The way this bill is written, we pay for 
their education, and the Pell grant, if they qualify--which most 
would--is then available for them after their education to pocket as 
cash. I am not sure that is the promise we made. I am not sure it is 
the promise the American people are committed to fulfill. I am not sure 
it is what our service men and women expect. They want an education.


What we have done is we have structured an alternative, the Grahamm-
Burr-McCain bill, that provides exactly that. It is targeted at the 
average of the cost of public education in America. Now, fundamentally, 
I do not believe a student who picks an art and design school in the 
State of Michigan should be entitled to $13,000 for that school. Yet if 
he chooses the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, then he is 
only going to get $5,300.

Why is there a discrepancy in those two schools? Because States 
subsidize higher education at a different level because it is a State 
decision. It is State money that is used to subsidize higher education. 
In North Carolina, we choose to subsidize higher education to the tune 
of 70 percent. We do not expect every State to choose to subsidize it 
at that level.

But by the same token, why would we create a program that 
disenfranchises North Carolina, that says to North Carolina: Oh, boy, 
you are going to be cheated because you subsidize higher education so 
that more of your kids can have an affordable option. And because now 
the Federal Government


would have paid everything, you are going to lose money because you 
subsidize higher education. Unintended consequence: We are going to 
chase States out of the business of subsidizing higher education.

What is the net effect? Every kid in America who does not serve 3 
years Active Duty, cumulative, is going to pay more because States are 
not going to subsidize. I am not sure that is what we are after. I 
surely do not suggest that is the intent of Senator Webb's legislation. 
It is what will happen if, in fact, we pass the legislation.

So Senator Graham and I and Senator McCain looked for: How do we take 
the existing system--not create a new one; this is not a wheel that is 
broken; it works, but let's fund it at today's funding needs.

Now, Senator Graham covered a lot of things that are in the bill. For 
an Active-Duty servicemember who serves 3 years Active Duty, we are 
going to provide $1,500 in living expense and tuition every month as a 
benefit. We are going to provide $1,000 for books and fees a year. For 
that individual who stays in the military over 6 years, 50 percent of 
the education benefit they accrue is transferable to a family member: a 
spouse or child. If a servicemember chooses to serve for 12 years or 
more, 100 percent of their GI education benefit is now transferable to 
a spouse or a child.

I think it is safe to say that for most who make a career out of the 
military, they have numerous opportunities to enhance their academic 
achievements on Active Duty. So the likelihood is a 20-year veteran of 
our services probably has all the education they need, and they have a 
huge education benefit. I cannot think of a better reward to people who 
have served their country than to say: Let's make this benefit 
available so you can educate your children. Let them choose the States 
that highly subsidize so they get more bang for their buck.

Senator Graham covered the fact that we put the responsibility for 
private schools to fill the gap on the private schools. We say to an 
institution: Do you know what. You are willing to retire debt for low-
income Americans today. Well, let's see what type of commitment you are 
going to make for veterans, people who are part of the GI program.

Senator Webb's bill says to the school, Harvard, Yale, Duke, schools 
that have $35,000 tuitions: Do you know what. We are only paying $5,000 
in North Carolina, so, Duke, if you get one of these, that $20,000-some 
difference--$25,000, $30,000 difference--for every dollar you put in, 
the Federal Government is going to put in.

What I say, in the legislation, to Duke is: All right. We are putting 
$14,400 in the pot for that GI. The difference is indebtedness at the 
end of his career. If you are willing to retire 25 percent of it, then 
we are going to put an extra $1,000 in the pot. If you are willing to 
retire 50 percent, we are putting $2,000 in the pot. If you are willing 
to retire 100 percent of the debt, we are going to put more money into 
the pot. We are not going dollar for dollar because I do not think that 
is our responsibility. There has to be a side of the academic 
institutions that is willing to also recognize the service of our men 
and women in uniform.

We were denied the opportunity to have a vote on a piece of 
legislation earlier today. It is a rule of the Senate that you can 
offer a motion to table an amendment. What does tabling an amendment 
mean? It means we were denied the opportunity to vote on a real 
education package for our service men and women.

What is the reason somebody would do that? Well, fear that we were 
going to win. Fear that enough Members would look at it and vote for it 
on the merits of the legislation, that we would win. What is the 
likelihood we are going to have an opportunity to offer our amendment? 
Probably none. Because the Webb amendment is going to be masked in an 
emergency supplemental that is going to be made up of war funding, 
funding that most Members--this one has no idea what other earmarked 
programs Members of the Senate are going to stick in it or the House of 
Representatives.

I would say to my colleagues, we ought to vote against the entire 
package, except for war funding. We ought to come to the floor. We 
ought to have a side by side: the Webb bill, the Graham bill. We ought 
to debate it on the merits, but we ought to take into account the needs 
of our military. To ignore retention, to ignore the tools the military 
needs to make sure our Nation is secure and strong, is absolutely 
ignorant. Now, it may be before it is over we are able to influence the 
authors of the other legislation to put transferability in theirs. But 
I have to say to my colleagues that the structure is fundamentally 
flawed.


I am the ranking member of the Veterans Affairs' Committee. 
Currently, the GI bill is administered partly out of DOD, partly out of 
the Department of Education, partly out of the Veterans' 
Administration. We have a Veterans' Administration today that is 
challenged to process the amount of disability claims, the appeals to 
disability claims, the appeals to medical services that are delivered. 
Now we are saying let's create a big new program and let's dump it in 
the Veterans' Administration and let's ask them to run it. How 
incredibly insensitive to the work that is currently going on but how 
insensitive to the needs of our veterans who are injured--those who 
come back from Iraq and Afghanistan, those who transition out of Active 
Duty to veteran status who need a Veterans' Administration that is 100 
percent focused on the delivery of health care, the processing of 
disability claims, and making sure every veteran is matched with a 
check that they need for their livelihood.

Now we are going to say: But we want you to now run education. We 
want to take the Department of Education out of it. We want to take DOD 
out of it. We want the Veterans' Administration to be responsible.

Millions and millions, hundreds of millions of dollars is going to be 
needed to administer this program, hundreds of millions of dollars. 
Forget the fact that to write the regulations out of a new agency is 
probably going to take well over a year. That is why the Webb bill is 
not proposed to start for some time after this body passes it.

I am sure we are going to have ample time to talk about the education 
benefit for our military members. I am not sure we are going to have an 
opportunity to have a choice. I am convinced people asked me to come 
here and serve to represent North Carolina to make sure we have a 
choice, and that it wasn't a choice between something and nothing, but 
that it was a choice between something and something. Every Member of 
the Senate--100 Members--should have the opportunity to come to this 
floor and to offer what they think is the solution to a problem. Not on 
this. We tried to do it because we didn't think we would get an 
opportunity, and instead of getting an up-or-down vote on a very 
important piece of legislation that provides and extends and revamps 
the GI education benefit for our military, it was decided that we were 
all going to have the opportunity to table consideration. I am not sure 
that is why we were all elected to be here. I think to some degree it 
shows what is worse about the institution that we are not willing to 
tackle.

This is the institution of great debate, and when we have big issues, 
we run from the debate, hoping that the American people aren't looking, 
hoping that nobody will read about what we have done, that nobody will 
see the missed opportunity. I will tell my colleagues, our service men 
and women aren't going to miss this one. It is not going to be over 
with a simple tabling vote. This is something that will continue to 
educate the American people and, more importantly, the men and women 
who put on a uniform and never ask why but go exactly where our 
Commander in Chief asks them to go.

I urge my colleagues to pay very special attention as we go through 
the debate on this legislation. Ask yourself not only is it right, ask 
yourself are the consequences of what we do the consequences that we 
would want to have happen. If there are unintended consequences to 
this, the general public of young people who are looking at higher 
education as an absolute necessity of their livelihood in the future 
are disenfranchised in some way by this. If servicemembers aren't 
allowed to extend an education benefit to their children or to their 
spouse, and it just goes away, have we really done our job? I think the 
answer is going to be no.

So I encourage the leadership in the majority to give us an 
opportunity to


have a fair up-or-down vote. Give us the opportunity to compare two 
pieces of legislation. Nobody should be scared to do that. Let America 
decide based upon their representatives in the Senate which one better 
fulfills the promise we have made to the men and women who serve but, 
more importantly, what upholds the structure of higher education in 
this country and doesn't disenfranchise or disadvantage any student now 
or in the future.

I am convinced we can only achieve that if we recognize a benefit 
that is uniform and equal across the board, not one that is determined 
by where you choose to go to school, not a benefit that is determined 
by where you choose to live, but a benefit that fulfills every promise 
that we are going to provide an education and put some degree of 
individual responsibility on how that is exercised. I am convinced that 
for those who may choose a community college versus a 4-year 
university, the savings they have should be savings they extend to 
their children and to their spouse.

That would not happen under the current Webb bill; it will just go 
away. They will miss out on that opportunity. They will never know that 
unless we are willing to have a debate on this floor. They are never 
going to know it unless we are provided the opportunity to present them 
with a choice between something and something versus something and 
nothing.

I thank the Chair for the time extended to me.

At this time I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.