# None
## `bd5bfcd7c722b3d6e7a77f29ecae3388`
`Mr. ROTHMAN â€” 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. ROTHMAN. I thank the distinguished gentlelady from California, 
who was also a former Ambassador to the Federated States of Micronesia. 
Thank you for your leadership on this issue and on so many other 
issues.

To my dear friend, the ranking member of the International Relations 
Committee, the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen), thank 
you for your strong support for this resolution and for countless other 
measures of importance to the world as well as to the United States of 
America.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Concurrent Resolution 21, a 
resolution that I was proud to author, along with Congressman Mark Kirk 
from Illinois.

Mr. Speaker, what do you do when you see injustice? What do you do 
when you see injustice? Well, as I told my children, you only have two 
choices when you see injustice. You do nothing, you walk away in the 
face of genocide, or someone else's torment or unjust, unfair 
treatment, do nothing, wear blinders like most of the world, or you do 
something, do something in the face of injustice.

Here we have the President of a sovereign nation, a Member of the 
U.N., Ahmadinejad from Iran, who says that a fellow nation in the 
world, a member of the U.N., the state of Israel, should be wiped off 
the face of the Earth, the people killed. Not only is that a violation 
of the U.N. Charter, which, not surprisingly, says one cannot, as a 
member nation, advocate the death and destruction of another member 
nation, it also violates the Geneva Convention rules against incitement 
to genocide.

Lest one think that Mr. Ahmadinejad, a twisted, backward, lunatic, be 
some nonthreatening individual crazy man who happens to talk about the 
death of millions of innocent people, this is the head of a nation, a 
sovereign nation with oil wealth and an army and with a stated goal of 
acquiring nuclear weapons to use to carry out his homicidal, genocidal, 
lunatic delusions of wiping out the State of Israel.

So we must take his threats seriously. Just as so many say in the 
history of the 20th century as we review it, we should have taken 
Hitler's threats more seriously and not just disregarded him as some 
lunatic who couldn't do anything about his threats.

So we have asked the United Nations, we are asking them through this 
resolution to enforce its own rules against the incitement of the 
destruction of a member nation of the U.N..

What is happening at the U.N.? Today you have Indonesia, 
unbelievably, standing in the way of a simple


resolution, simple statement of condemnation against Ahmadinejad's 
genocidal statement to destroy Israel.

Why would Indonesia not support the rules of the United Nations? Why 
would not they not even stand silent, they are stopping the U.N. from 
announcing its resolution against Ahmadinejad's genocidal statements.

Why would Indonesia do that? Whatever the reason, my friends, it's 
wrong.

Unless Indonesia understands clearly that it will pay a price in 
world opinion and in economic matters and in political relations with 
the rest of the world, perhaps it won't move. But let Indonesia know 
that this United States House of Representatives, these Representatives 
of the 320 million American people, know what is wrong and what is 
right.



It is wrong to call for the death and destruction of a nation. It is 
wrong to call for the genocide of a people, and it is wrong for any 
other nation to stand in the way of justice, and we won't forget who 
helped us stop injustice and who prevented us from calling for the 
trial of Ahmadinejad before the international criminal court and 
sanctions upon Iran at the U.N.

Why is it important for the United States House of Representatives to 
speak? Because we will not be silent in the face of this lunatic madman 
who threatens us and threatens our allies.

By the way, if you read the history of the United States of America, 
we've been standing up for Israel since its founding. And in our 
founding, in the 1700s, if you read the history of all of our founders, 
they supported a Jewish homeland in Palestine. From the 1700s in 
America up until today, long before the Holocaust of the mid-20th 
century, back in the 1700s, Americans believed that the Jews should be 
returned to their homeland. And now this lunatic in Iran wants to wipe 
out this nation.

And Israel is not just a sentimental favorite. Israel happens to be 
America's number one strategic military, economic ally in the entire 
Middle East. People say, well, you know Iraq, and we won't get into 
that debacle at the moment, what it's costing us in troops and our 
military, 150,000 troops. If the state of Israel did not exist with its 
powerful, pro-Western military, freedom of speech, freedom of religion, 
tolerating all peoples in the region, how many more troops would we 
have to have in the Middle East if Israel didn't exist? Another 
100,000, 200,000 Americans? We don't have to.

Our ally, the state of Israel, is there for America, as it has been 
ever since its founding: military, intelligence, economic.

So for so many reasons, legal, moral, military, national security for 
the United States, we cannot let this madman Ahmadinejad threaten 
America's greatest ally, the only Western democracy in the entire 
Middle East.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution, and I urge Indonesia 
to do what is right and join with us.