# None
## `bd7960bd00b16b88a7bac3ffafe989aa`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the budget 
resolution that is before the Senate today. I want to thank Chairman 
Conrad for his leadership--he and the Budget Committee have put 
together a smart, fiscally disciplined budget that will help put our 
economy back on track while bringing our budget into balance by 2012.

This is the time of year when middle-class families across the 
country are sitting down at their kitchen tables with stacks of bills, 
tax forms, and a calculator. They are adding up expenses and incomes--
and the numbers are not good.

The cost of health insurance is up. Mortgage payments are up. Gas 
prices are up. Food prices are up. Heating bills are up. Inflation is 
up. Unemployment is up.

Families' expenses are on the rise, but, for the last 7 years, wages 
have not kept pace. In times like these, it is hard to balance a 
budget, but American families don't have a choice. They either balance 
their budget or face debts and bankruptcy.

The Federal Government should take a lesson from American families: 
when pennies are tight, we need to be making smart, disciplined 
decisions that bring budgets into balance. That is no easy task when 
you consider the fiscal mess this Congress inherited.

In 2000, we were running $236 billion in budget surpluses. In 2006, 
the Federal budget deficit was $248 billion. The national debt will 
have gone from $5.8 trillion in 2001 to over $10 trillion by the end of 
this year. Think of that for one second: in just 8 years, this 
administration will have almost doubled the entire national debt. It is 
staggering. And it is the reason that Americans have lost trust in the 
fiscal policies of this administration.

But the budget resolution we passed last year and the budget 
resolution we are considering today rein in this recklessness.

This budget, thanks to the work of Chairman Conrad and the Budget 
Committee, is the blueprint for how we fund our most important Federal 
programs, provide new tax relief, and bring the budget into balance 
within 4 years--without raising taxes.

And this budget puts the Federal Government back on a pay-as-you-go 
basis, meaning that if someone wants to pass a new Federal program or 
cut taxes--they have to find a way to pay for it. This is known as 
''pay-go,'' and it is simple common sense.

It is not easy to enforce the type of fiscal restraint embodied by 
pay-go while addressing the most pressing challenges our country is 
facing, but this budget succeeds in doing just that.

I want to spend a few moments talking about the tax portions of the 
budget resolution because they are of direct interest to those middle 
class families who are feeling the squeeze of stagnant wages, rising 
costs, and declining home values. The underlying budget resolution 
offers AMT relief and measures to close the tax gap, and the amendment 
that Senator Baucus has offered would provide further relief.

The Baucus amendment would permanently extend a series of critical 
middle-class tax cuts and create new tax relief for two important 
groups: (1) middle-class homeowners burdened by high property taxes and 
(2) veterans and servicemembers that are giving so much. As a member of 
the Senate Finance Committee, I believe that Congress should use the 
budget resolution to demonstrate its strong support for the tax 
policies that provide relief for middle-class families.

The Baucus amendment makes permanent the 10-percent tax bracket, the 
child tax credit, the adoption credit, the dependent care credit, and 
marriage penalty relief.

It helps address the housing crisis by allowing middle-income 
taxpayers an ''above-the-line'' deduction for property taxes. This 
would allow homeowners to deduct their property taxes whether or not 
they itemize their deductions, providing relief to a segment of the 
population that has been hard-hit by recent economic troubles.

In addition, the Baucus amendment includes a series of targeted 
provisions designed to provide tax relief to veterans and 
servicemembers, including a provision to allow servicemembers to count 
combat pay as income for purposes of the earned income tax credit.

Finally, this amendment will pave the way for meaningful estate tax 
reform by preventing any increase in the estate tax above the 2009 rate 
and exemption levels. The Finance Committee is working toward the goal 
of enacting permanent and comprehensive reform, and this amendment is 
an important step in the right direction.

These are not the only tax priorities that we intend to pursue this 
year, but they are at the top of the list for urgency and priority.

In addition to these tax cuts for middle class families, the budget 
establishes and funds priorities and programs that have been neglected 
for far too long.

For our Armed Forces, the budget provides full funding for our troops 
in Iraq and Afghanistan but also helps rebuild a military that has been 
under intense strain for five years. The Army


Chief of Staff, General Casey, has been very clear that the current 
operational tempo and repeated deployments is putting the Army ''out of 
balance,'' and less able to respond to contingencies.

The National Guard has also been hit hard by the administration's 
policies--units have been short equipment for training, disaster 
response, and other missions. This budget, though, provides over $49.1 
billion to recruit, train, equip, and sustain National Guard and 
Reserve units--these funds are desperately needed to reset the force. 
The budget also provides a 3.4-percent pay raise for military 
personnel, and rejects the administration's proposals for new TRlCARE 
enrollment fees and higher deductibles for military retirees.

For our veterans, the budget provides $48.2 billion for discretionary 
programs, including medical care. This is $3.2 billion more than the 
President's proposed funding level and brings funding for the VA in 
line with the recommendations in the independent budget, which 
veterans' service organizations compile each year to guide funding for 
the VA.

I am particularly proud that the committee was able to fulfill my 
request to restore funding for major construction projects in the VA, 
including the Fitzsimons Hospital in Denver. The administration has 
been dragging its feet on the construction of major medical facilities 
that have been planned for years. The foot-dragging has only caused 
costs to rise and veterans to have to wait longer for modern medical 
facilities. This is unacceptable. I appreciate Chairman Conrad's 
willingness to work with me to include funding and report language that 
will help get the VA back on track on these projects.

In addition to the good things that this budget does to rebuild our 
military, honor our veterans, and cut taxes for middle class families, 
it also provides adequate funding for domestic programs that are 
fundamental to Americans' economic security.

As a Senator from a State where 57 of our 64 counties rely on payment 
in lieu of taxes, PILT, to offset tax revenue that can not be collected 
from the federally owned lands in their county, I know how damaging the 
President's cuts to PILT are. For a county like Mineral County, CO, 
which has over half a million acres of Federal land, cuts to PILT are 
devastating to its budget. That is why I am proud that the Budget 
Resolution rejects the President's cuts to PILT and creates a deficit 
neutral reserve fund to accommodate legislation that will fully fund 
the program for five years.

I am also cosponsoring an amendment that Senator Enzi is offering 
that will help stop the Federal Government from raiding the States' 
share of mineral leasing revenues. Those revenues from oil and gas 
leases in Colorado, Wyoming, and across the West should be divided 50-
50 between the state and the Federal Government. The administration 
succeeded in changing this formula in 2008, but the reserve fund that 
Senator Enzi's amendment creates would help ensure that this does not 
happen again.

But these aren't the only steps we can take in this budget to help 
rural economies. The budget resolution also makes a dramatic new 
investment in renewable energy development and research. It puts $2 
billion into the Department of Energy EERE account, which funds 
research and development at labs like the National Renewable Energy Lab 
in Golden, CO. This is a $738 million increase over the President's 
budget. It will help accelerate the renewable energy revolution that is 
sweeping across the country, giving new life to rural economies.

On health care, the budget once again lays the groundwork for 
expanding health care coverage for children. On two separate occasions 
last year, the President vetoed bills that would have expanded the 
Children's Health Insurance Program. If not for those vetoes, 3.8 
million more children would have health insurance today.

We are not going to give up that fight, so the budget provides up to 
$50 billion for CHIP so that we can expand coverage to 6 mi1lion more 
children.

And on law enforcement, the budget resolution rejects the President's 
proposal to eliminate the COPS program. This was the sixth straight 
year that the President has proposed massive cuts to a program that has 
put over 100,000 police officers on the streets. As a former attorney 
general, I can tell you just how misguided these cuts would be, if we 
allowed them to go through.

As American families sort through their finances, stack up their 
bills, and calculate their 2007 taxes in this period, they know they 
have to set priorities in their own budgets.

They expect the Federal Government to do the same: they expect 
Congress to assemble and pass a budget that is fiscally disciplined, 
that provides tax relief, and that funds those programs that are 
fundamental to our security and our economy.

I believe that this budget meets those objectives by putting us on 
track to balance the budget by 2012, despite the fiscal recklessness 
that will be the legacy of this administration.

I again want to thank Chairman Conrad and the Budget Committee for 
all their work on this budget. I am proud to stand behind it.