# None
## `bda54159de3d82f46c70790c941d63e4`
`Ms. STABENOW â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Thank you, Mr. President.

At this 3 o'clock hour in the morning, I think it is important to 
refocus on exactly what the vote will be in the morning as it relates 
to the issue in front of us, the Levin-Reed amendment. First, let me do 
this. Let me thank Senator Snowe, who was here a moment ago, for her 
eloquence and her courage in laying out the facts, and for her 
thoughtfulness. I wish to thank our Senate majority leader, Senator 
Reid, who has been laser focused on what, in fact, we need to be doing 
to change the course in Iraq based on the facts, based on the iron will 
of the American people.

I appreciate all he has done to keep us focused on this critical 
issue of our time.

I also thank Senator Carl Levin, my senior Senator from Michigan. We 
are very proud of him in Michigan for all he does, advocating for our 
troops and for a foreign policy and an armed services policy that makes 
sense for our country, for all of us. I thank Senators Levin and Jack 
Reed for introducing an amendment that is currently being filibustered.

What we have in front of us and what we are doing is demonstrating 
through this all-night debate--which is very important, regardless of 
where someone comes from on this issue; it is very important that we 
have this debate and discussion. I appreciate all of my colleagues 
expressing themselves. What we have in front of us is the question of 
whether we are going to end a filibuster tomorrow, and whether we are 
going to have an opportunity to have a simple majority vote--a yes-or-
no vote--on a change in direction in Iraq, which would in fact change 
the mission by next year, by April 30 of next year. I find it amazing 
that our men and women right now who are fighting for democracy, 
fighting for majority rule--to put together a coalition to create a 
working majority and that the majority should rule. Yet here we are not 
allowed to have the majority make the decision--a majority being 51, or 
in this case 50 at the moment, being able to vote and determine what 
the policy is.

Last week, we had a very significant debate and issue in front of us 
that Senator Webb from Virginia brought forward in terms of supporting 
our troops, supporting them as it relates to the deployment and 
redeployment policies right now for our National Guard and our full-
time military. There were 56 members--a clear majority of this body--
who voted for that policy, that change in policy. So if you are 
deployed for 12 months, you would be home on dwell time for 12 months 
with your family and with an opportunity to be retrained, to regroup, 
in order to be able to go back. Fifty-six members, a clear majority, 
said yes. Yet we were stopped. Why? Because our Republican colleagues 
insist on filibustering and not allowing a vote.

We are saying to the other side of the aisle, let us vote. Let us do 
what we assume everybody in the American public assumes in a democracy 
with a majority, that the majority would have their say, that whoever 
is in the majority has an opportunity to win a vote. But that is not 
the case anymore in the Senate. We are not talking about 50 or 51 but 
60. So we have in front of us a filibuster that is going on as to 
whether we will even vote on a policy that has a majority of this 
Senate, and it is clearly supported by a majority of the American 
people.

(Mr. DURBIN assumed the Chair.)