# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `be159d445f8644c34e53911880b89e09`
`Mr. AKAKA â€” 28 October 2009`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I am introducing landmark legislation 
that will provide critical assistance to veterans and their family 
caregivers. The Caregiver and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 
2009, contains provisions from S. 252, the Veterans Health Care 
Authorization Act of 2009, and S. 801, the Caregiver and Veterans 
Health Services Act of 2009. The Committee reported both S. 252 and S. 
801, and but they are being held by a single Senator. Today, I 
reintroduce these vital improvements to veterans' health care as S. 
1963.

The bipartisan provisions contained in S. 1963 provide needed 
assistance and support to family members and others who are serving as 
caregivers for the most seriously injured veterans of the conflicts in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. This assistance includes health care, counseling, 
support and a living stipend. They also expand services for women 
veterans, those with traumatic brain injury, and veterans that live in 
rural areas. Because the Nation's veterans and their caregivers cannot 
wait any longer for this help, I am introducing S. 1963, and asking 
that it be immediately placed on the Calendar.

S. 1963 has one simple theme: that every veteran deserves access to 
high quality health care, whether that care is provided by VA, or by a 
family caregiver. The Congress has previously recognized the 
contributions of caregivers. S. 1963 also contains many other important 
veterans' health improvements, including expanding services for women 
veterans; telemedicine technologies; transportation grants; and 
scholarship and loan repayment programs; and eliminating copayments for 
catastrophically disabled veterans. States which have an especially 
high number of veterans living in rural areas, such as Montana, Nevada, 
Wyoming, Florida, Arizona, Arkansas, Virginia, Idaho, Oklahoma, and New 
Mexico, would benefit greatly from the provisions in the bill which are 
designed to improve health care for rural veterans.