# JOSHUA OMVIG SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `be5f3cdf756d1df0d213a33ab8d5e0fc`
`Mr. HARKIN â€” 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I come to the floor at this Time to 
respond a little to the comments made prior to the recess for our 
Republican and Democratic caucuses today, made on the floor by the 
Senator from Oklahoma, Mr. Coburn, regarding the bill called the Joshua 
Omvig Suicide Prevention Act. I want to lay out what the bill does, 
where we are on it, and respond to some of the objections that the 
Senator from Oklahoma raised.

Shortly before the Senate adjourned for the August recess, we sought 
unanimous consent to pass this bill, the Joshua Omvig Suicide 
Prevention Act, and send it to the President for his signature. 
Unfortunately, an objection was lodged on the other side of the aisle 
by--as we know from this morning--the Senator from Oklahoma. I am 
saddened by the objection to this legislation.

My staff and I have spent a great deal of Time trying to understand 
the reasons behind this objection and respond to the concerns that have 
been raised. I thought it would be helpful for my fellow Senators, and 
anyone who is watching, if I took some Time to review why I believe the 
Senate needs to act now to pass this important bill, and why I find it 
so puzzling that one Senator would object.

Let me give a little bit of history. I introduced this legislation, 
along with my colleague from Iowa, Senator Grassley, after learning 
about the case of a young Iowan--his name was Joshua Omvig--who 
tragically took his own life shortly after returning home from an 11-
month deployment in Iraq. Joshua was a member of the U.S. Army Reserve, 
339th MP Company, based in Davenport, IA. Before leaving for Iraq, he 
was a member of the Grundy Center Volunteer Fire Department and the 
Grundy Center Police Reserves. He was honored to serve his country in 
the Reserves and hoped to return to his community to serve as a police 
officer. Please remember what I just said. He was honored to serve his 
country in the Reserves, and he hoped to return to his community to 
serve as a police officer. Keep that in mind. I will return to it 
later.

His family is convinced that if the Veterans' Administration had more 
services for veterans in place, Joshua would have received the help he 
needed and he would still be alive. But rather than withdrawing into 
their grief, Joshua's parents have dedicated themselves to ensuring no 
other family has to suffer this way. Ellen and Randy Omvig, Joshua's 
parents, have assisted countless veterans and their families in 
navigating the VA system. They have been outspoken advocates of 
improved mental health services for servicemembers and veterans. In 
April, the Omvigs testified before the Senate Veterans Affairs 
Committee on the importance of appropriate suicide prevention, early 
detection, and treatment programs for our veterans. The goal of the 
Joshua Omvig Act is simple: to improve suicide prevention and early 
detection and to improve assistance to veterans in crisis in order to 
prevent suicides among those who have so bravely served our country.

We know there is an urgent, overwhelming need for this bill. A study 
in last month's issue of the Journal of Epidemiology and Community 
Health found that those who have been in combat are twice as likely to 
commit suicide as those who have never served in a war.

The Veterans' Administration estimates that more than 5,000 veterans 
take their lives each year. These numbers are certain to increase 
dramatically, given the growing number of soldiers returning from 
combat in Iraq and Afghanistan. Suicide rates are 35


percent higher for Iraq veterans than for the general population. Let 
me repeat that statement. Suicide rates are 35 percent higher for Iraq 
war veterans than for the general population. The Department of Defense 
recently reported that the Army is seeing the highest rate of suicide 
in 28 years.

So what does the Joshua Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention Act do? It 
directs the Department of Veterans Affairs to create a comprehensive 
program to address the troubling rate of suicide among veterans 
returning from combat. The legislation takes a multifaceted approach 
toward the prevention of suicide. It emphasizes the importance of 
social support, family involvement, readjustment services, as well as 
further research to decrease the number of suicides among our veterans. 
It also boosts training for all Department of Veterans Affairs staff, 
contractors, and medical personnel who interact with veterans, teaching 
them to identify risk factors