# HONORING THE CALIFORNIA NATIONAL GUARD 235TH ENGINEER COMPANY
## `be8f31c712e5bd031a86a8dbf73957a1`
`Ms. WOOLSEY â€” 11 March 2010`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the California 
National Guard 235th Engineer Company, SAPPER, who recently returned 
from a tour in Afghanistan as part of Operation Enduring Freedom.

Their mission in Afghanistan was to clear the routes of improvised 
explosive devices, IEDs, to allow the infantry freedom of movement. 
They were the front line for the front line! These brave soldiers 
risked their lives every day for their comrades and returned as the 
most decorated unit. They also received the Valorous Unit Award which 
is awarded to a unit that displays extraordinary heroism in actions 
against the enemy.

As part of their primary mission, 235th Engineer Company cleared more 
than 10,000 kilometers of road in 5 separate battle spaces and more 
than 208,000 square meters around Bagram Air Base, destroyed 4,800 
pieces of unexploded ordnance and land mines, and found 54 IEDs.

In addition, they completed 220 combat missions (enduring 32 IED 
strikes and 25 other enemy engagements) as well as 2 FOB defense 
missions. They captured 604 persons of


interest and conducted 11 named operations, 5 air-assault missions, and 
17 combat resupply missions during the heat of battle. Medics helped in 
more than 30 mass casualty and MEDEVAC trauma events.

Through their deployment there was no single loss of life, limb, or 
eyesight.

Our courageous SAPPERs earned 39 Purple Hearts, 23 Bronze Stars, 2 
Meritorious Service Medals, 87 Army Commendation Medals, 5 Army 
Achievement Medals, 87 Combat Action Badges, 4 Combat Medic Badges, and 
received a special commendation from the Polish Battle Group Commander.

Madam Speaker, it is my privilege to honor the 235th Engineer Company 
for their service to our Nation. Our heroic soldiers were true to the 
SAPPER creed by completing the mission regardless of available assets 
and overcoming insurmountable odds.
