# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `bec14cfd4f348c052f612ffc4609fcba`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. I worked to include language in the markup that ensures 
improving this backlog is a top priority, and I commend the effort by 
Senator Lincoln to dedicate funding to fixing the flawed claims 
process. This budget will do what should have been done long before our 
troops began coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan--begin to repair a 
broken system that has failed our veterans.

Our budget will also ensure that as we wage a war abroad, we do not 
forget our fight here at home to protect our Nation. This budget not 
only rejects the President's shortsighted proposal to slash more than 
$1 billion from first responder programs, but it provides much needed 
increases for homeland security grants, including enough to fund port 
security grants at their authorized level of $400 million, doubling 
rail and transit security, and doubling chemical security funds.

We also restore the President's cuts to the COPS Program, which would 
have left almost no funds to help law enforcement hire additional 
officers and improve technology. We reject the President's proposal to 
slash firefighter grants in half and eliminate SAFER grants. This 
budget means the difference between shortchanging our police and fire 
departments and providing them the resources to meet the challenges in 
our communities.

Finally, the bottom line is our Nation will see a difference when we 
pass this budget. They will see a brighter outlook down the road. The 
Nation is watching. They have called on us to focus and change the 
priorities and values we have seen in previous resolutions by the 
previous majority. This budget ultimately encompasses the values of 
Americans across this country.

I commend Chairman Conrad for his work on crafting this budget. It 
was difficult. It is a careful balance. But at the end of the day, it 
accomplishes the key investments that are most important to the 
Nation's future, to its vitality, to the human capital, to our 
children--our greatest asset and also our most fragile asset.

I urge my colleagues to continue to reject the amendments that 
undermine the ability for this new blueprint and to adopt the 
resolution tomorrow so we can build a stronger Nation.

With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor.