# NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVISTS DEBT RELIEF ACT OF 2008
## `bf2a2b317e351a775c6341870b617871`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY â€” 2 October 2008`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. I thank the gentleman for yielding to me and for his 
support on this legislation.

I rise to proudly support S. 3197, the National Guard and Reservists 
Debt Relief Act. This legislation is the Senate companion to H.R. 4044, 
legislation that I authored, along with my friend and colleague, 
Congressman Dana Rohrabacher, which passed the House unanimously on 
June 23. S. 3197 was introduced by my very good friend and colleague 
from Illinois, Senator Dick Durbin.

Since 9/11, more than 460,000 Reservists and Guardsmen have been 
called to active duty in Iraq and Afghanistan. These men and women have 
left their families and their jobs to selflessly serve their country, 
often with little or no notice to get their finances in order. Many 
servicemembers are small business owners who have to put their 
businesses on hold while they serve their country, and some are forced 
to sacrifice those businesses altogether. And, of course, some may face 
losing their homes when they return because of their financial 
distress.

Many servicemembers face unexpected extended tours of 15 months or 
longer, leaving them with almost no way to prepare financially.

S. 3197 would simply allow National Guard and Reservists to file for 
bankruptcy without the burden of the means test that assesses their 
eligibility for bankruptcy protection. H.R. 4044 allows members of the 
National Guard and Reservists to file for chapter


7 bankruptcy without the added paperwork burden and obstacles of the 
means test.

This is why: when veterans face the means test, it has a particularly 
adverse impact on them. That is because the combat pay of soldiers in 
Iraq or Afghanistan is often higher than their salaries at home, and 
they have fewer expenses overseas, if any. The problem is when they 
return home, these individuals return to face lower incomes and higher 
expenses, and because the means test factors in a person's income and 
expenses for the 6-month period preceding the bankruptcy filing, a 
veteran's income is artificially inflated and their expenses seem 
disproportionately low. As a result, they risk failing the means test 
and facing chapter 11 or 13.

This bill is narrowly drafted to apply to servicemembers who have 
served in the Armed Forces for more than 90 days since 9/11 and would 
grant them an exemption from the test for up to a year and a half after 
they return home. The legislation also requires a GAO report that will 
help us quantify the hardships our veterans face when they return home 
by tracking how many apply for bankruptcy protection.

With unemployment at the highest levels in 7 years and the credit 
crisis and recession squeezing the budgets of families across the 
country, we must give these returning heroes any relief we can. 
Eighteen percent of veterans recently back from tours of duty are 
unemployed. Twenty-five percent of those who have been able to find 
work earn less than $22,000 a year. There are currently 1,500 veterans 
of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan who are homeless. And thousands of 
veterans return from the war with physical and mental injuries which 
make returning to work difficult or impossible. We should all be 
outraged at those statistics.

Simply put, the men and women who have risked their lives to protect 
us deserve protection from us in return. These selfless individuals 
should not face harsh bankruptcy procedure if they are in financial 
distress when they return home. When the changes to the bankruptcy law 
were made in 2005, Congress exempted disabled veterans from the means 
test. It is time to include the Guard and Reserves as well.

The legislation that we're considering once again today is virtually 
identical to the one we passed unanimously, with minor, five-word, 
technical, clarifying corrections added during consideration in the 
Senate Judiciary Committee; and like H.R. 4044, the bill passed the 
Senate with unanimous support. I urge its support in the House once 
again today so we can send it to the President for his signature.

I'd like to thank Chairman Conyers, again, for working with me to 
pass this legislation, as well as Subcommittee Chairwoman Linda Sanchez 
for her commitment to this bill. And I want to thank the staff on both 
sides of the aisle who helped, particularly my legislative director, 
Daniel Penchina. And, again, I thank my colleague, Congressman 
Rohrabacher, who has been a formidable and effective partner in moving 
this legislation through the House this year.