# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `bf6e4075c9da7881a35bc91d580d47b4`
`Mr. SPACE â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. SPACE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share with you my belief that 
we, as a people, are at a crossroads unlike any in our history. We have 
seen our manufacturing-based economy assaulted by the forces of 
globalization, the challenges of the ensuing revolution and energy 
production squarely upon us, and we are at the dawning of a new 
understanding, the fragileness of our environment. All of these things 
are, in their own right, seminal concerns of a profound scale, but in 
spite of the gravity and import of these issues, there is perhaps no 
more compelling matter before us than that of the war in Iraq.

My colleagues on both sides of the aisle are distressed by the tragic 
turns that this war has taken. I do not, at this moment, nor do my 
colleagues, I presume, wish to draw upon the motivations or lack of 
candor exhibited by our President in letting slip the dogs of war. But 
I do long for leadership, leadership seasoned and honest enough to 
admit when a mistake has been made, leadership that has a vision for 
the future, leadership able to meld the inherent wisdom of man with the 
realities of the modern world.

Under our form of government, it is the President who is singularly 
endowed with this leadership; yet at this critical historical moment, 
our call for leadership and inspiration has been unmet. As a result, 
Mr. Speaker, I today voice my opposition to the President's plan to 
deploy additional troops to Iraq.

The crisis that Iraq has become will not be resolved merely with 
more, more, more, more troops, more tours and deployment extensions, 
more injuries, more deaths. Simply providing more without a blueprint 
is not enough. Without a clear plan and a clear objective, a troop 
increase will not help our Iraq policy. In fact, it will only deepen 
the disaster that Iraq has become.

I do not utter these thoughts lightly. I share these sentiments, 
knowing that all of the people that I represent will not necessarily 
agree with me. I fear that my remarks will be misconstrued as 
reflecting something less than a full commitment to the brave men and 
women who have served or are serving their country in uniform, or to 
those heroes who have given their very lives for this cause.

Let there be no mistake, Mr. Speaker, I have at the very heart of my 
motivation for these remarks a sincere appreciation for the sacrifice 
of our brothers and sisters who have been dispatched to fight this war. 
They, and their families by extension, have been called into action 
under trying circumstances, and I am profoundly moved by their sense of 
courage and dedication to country. In fact, it is my admiration and 
respect for our brave warriors that motivate my decision to express my 
dissatisfaction with the President's plan to subject more of them to 
the ravages of war.

To date, over 3,000 Americans have fallen in this war. All of them 
loved


their country enough to place themselves in harm's way in her defense. 
All of them left behind their families, who will never stop grieving. 
All of them have been deprived of the pleasures and privileges of a 
full life, just as we who remain have been deprived of the 
contributions to our society that each would have given.

Fifteen young men from Ohio's district have died in this war, all of 
them were loved dearly. They are fathers, sons, brothers, and husbands. 
Ohio's 18th is exclusively rural in makeup, dotted by one small town 
and village after another. Our people are decent, hardworking, and 
imbued with a strong sense of personal responsibility. Our community is 
close knit and supportive. The death of each one of these brave 
soldiers was met with a deep sense of communal grief.

This resolution stresses a message that many believed in. We support 
our troops, we support their commitment to and sacrifice for our 
Nation, we support their families and those of the fallen in their 
silent and eternal heartache. We cannot fully understand their pain, 
but perhaps we can learn from it.

Mr. Speaker, I cannot support a troop surge without real answers as 
to how it will bring success in Iraq. I cannot support escalation 
without regard to diplomacy, without regard to the political realities 
of the region, and without regard to the underlying dynamics of this 
conflict.

There is an unspoken pledge between a soldier of war and the 
mechanisms of power. That warrior unquestioningly serves, defends and, 
if need be, dies. In consideration, he expects his government to only 
place him in harm's way when need be, and only through a painstakingly 
thought-out plan for victory.

Our troops have fulfilled their pledge to our country. It is time 
that our country fulfill its pledge to our troops.