# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `c0c7e8b6bfc71a492aef9a09f5fdabeb`
`Ms. GRANGER â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, consistent with the Republican 
Leadership's policy on earmarks, I offer the following justification 
for the projects that I requested that were included in the FY2009 
National Defense Authorization bill.

For the project titled ''Security Forces Building, 136th Airlift 
Wing, Fort Worth'' in H.R. 5658, the MILCON Air National Guard Account, 
the legal name and address of the requesting entity is Texas Air 
National Guard, 136th Airlift Wing, NAS JRB Fort Worth, Fort Worth, TX. 
A new facility is needed at JRB NAS Fort Worth for the Security Forces 
Squadron and for Combat Arms Training Simulator/Combat Arms Training 
Maintenance. This requirement is a result of the Air Force's increased 
need for Security Forces personnel


and the resulting increase of Security Forces personnel at the 136th 
Airlift Wing. Current space and facilities are inadequate; they are 
less than half the authorized size for the current number of personnel 
assigned and current training/deployment requirements. This facility 
needs to be constructed as soon as possible because the number of 
security personnel for the 136th Airlift Wing is growing quickly. Funds 
will be used toward the construction of this facility.

For the project titled ''F-22A Raptor'' in H.R. 5686, the Aircraft 
Procurement--Air Force Account, the legal name and address of the 
requesting entity is United Technologies, 1401 Eye Street, NW, Suite 
600, Washington, D.C. 20005-6523 (Subcontractor to Lockheed Martin--
Fort Worth, Texas). The F-22A Raptor is the only fighter that can 
provide air dominance necessary to ensure freedom of action for U.S. 
allied ground, air, and naval forces in contingency and combat forces. 
The F-22A Raptor provides 5th generation stealth, supercruise, 
vectoring thrust agility and integrated weapons capability to provide 
air dominance. Growing threats from modern surface to air missiles; new 
5th generation fighters in development by potential adversaries; and 
loss of significant numbers of the current air superiority fighter (the 
F-15 Eagle) demand continued F-22 production beyond the current F-22 
multi-year procurement. Funds would be used for advance procurement of 
F-22A Raptors.

For the project titled ''C-I7A Globemaster III'' in H.R. 5658, 
Aircraft Procurement, Air Force account, the legal name and address of 
the requesting entity is The Boeing Company, 3855 N Lakewood Blvd, Long 
Beach, CA 90846 (As prime contractor to Vought Aircraft Industries). 
The C-17 is the primary U.S. heavy airlift aircraft that can also 
operate intratheater on unimproved airfields. C-17 has flown 
approximately 80 percent of the strategic airlift missions for military 
operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, as well as serving as the workhorse 
for disaster relief in Asia and the United States' Gulf Coast. The 
program will provide improved military capability to fulfill needs as 
identified by the Department of Defense. Funds will be used for 
procurement of C-17s.

For the project titled ''Podded Reconnaissance System, SCATHE VIEW 
(C-130H)'' in H.R. 5686, the Aircraft Procurement--Air Force account, 
the legal name and address of the requesting entity is ATK Integrated 
Systems, 236 Citation Drive, Fort Worth, TX, 76106. SCATHE VIEW 
provides the war fighter with significant improvements in identifying 
time-critical targets, and in saving lives. The SCATHE VIEW program 
currently operates eight C-130H airframes, modified to carry a sensor 
suite pallet. All assets--including five sensor pallets--are stationed 
with the Air National Guard's 152nd Intelligence Squadron (IS) in Reno, 
Nevada. Recent deployments to U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) have been 
very successful in finding improvised explosive devices (IEDs), and in 
locating and destroying high value targets. SCATHE VIEW has also 
provided critical situational awareness by providing day and night 
imagery during domestic forest fires, and in search and rescue efforts. 
The program will provide improved military capability to meet an unmet 
need identified by the Department of Defense. Approximately 10 percent 
of funds will be used for the Blue Force Tracker, 40 percent for 3rd 
Aircrew Position, and 50 percent for Tactical Information Broadcast 
Service.

For the project titled ''UH-60A to UH-60L Upgrades'' in H.R. 5686, 
the Aircraft Procurement--Army Account, the legal name and address of 
the requesting entity is United Technologies, 1401 Eye Street, NW, 
Suite 600, Washington, D.C. 20005-6523, and Sikorsky Aircraft 
Corporation, A United Technologies Company, 4800 Overton Plaza, Ft 
Worth, TX 76109-4428. The Army has begun procuring new ''M'' series 
Black Hawks for utility, special operations, and MEDEVAC missions to 
replace the older ''A'' series models. The project also continues 
modernizing UH-60A helicopters through a UH-60A re-capitalization 
program. The current re-capitalization program includes an airframe 
life extension, fleet-wide product improvements and the replacement of 
components with the latest UH-60L configuration. While performing this 
recapitalization, the addition of the UH-60L transmission, UH-60L 701D 
engines and other enhancements complete the upgrade at a cost of an 
additional $1.5M per aircraft. Funds will be used for these costs.

For the project titled ''RC-26B Modernization'' in H.R. 5686, the 
Aircraft Procurement--Air Force Account, the legal name and address of 
the requesting entity is ATK Integrated Systems, 236 Citation Drive, 
Fort Worth, TX, 76106. The RC-26B performs critical intelligence, 
surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) missions in support of national 
disaster response by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Customs 
and Border Protection (CBP), Air National Guard, and in direct support 
of Special Operations Forces in the GWOT. The Air National Guard (ANG) 
operates a fleet of eleven RC-26B aircraft that provide support to 
individual states for disaster relief and counter-drug missions. As the 
demands for the RC-26Bs proven utility increased, non-availability of 
the platform due to use in GWOT operations have prevented ANG crews 
from performing their domestic assigned missions. Special Operations 
Command funded the modification of five RC-26B aircraft--to provide ISR 
missions in support of deployed operations. With five RC-26B aircraft 
deployed in support of missions outside of the continental United 
States, an availability vacuum at the state level has occurred. The 
remaining six RC-26B aircraft (from Mississippi, Arizona, Florida, 
Texas, West Virginia and New York) are not sufficient to support the 
disaster relief and counter-narcotics missions of both the ANG and DHS/
CBP. Funds will be used for concept development, design, integration 
and flight verification for one aircraft of the following technologies 
that would enhance the current Block 20 RC-26B performance and 
effectiveness.

For the project titled ''Enhanced Holographic Imager (EHI)'' in H.R. 
5686, the RDT&E--Army account, the legal name and address of the 
requesting entity is Zebra Imaging, Inc., 9801 Metric Blvd., Suite 200, 
Austin, TX 78758. This is the final phase of a three-year development 
program to reduce the size and enhance efficiency of the holographic 
imager system currently used to produce 3D imagery for the Army's 
Tactical Battlefield Visualization program. The requested FY09 funds 
will be administered by the U.S. Army Engineering Research and 
Development Center (USAERDC) and will complete the EHI development 
program, with the delivery of a fully-tested prototype of the field-
deployable Enhanced Holographic Imager. The Enhanced Holographic Imager 
(EHI) system is needed by DOD to reduce the time now required to 
provide 3D imagery to Coalition Forces in Iraq for intelligence and 
operation planning. Approximately 55 percent of funds will be used to 
complete design of a system and lab test prototype, 20 percent for the 
development of a prototype post-processor, and 25 percent to construct 
and test an in-field beta prototype.

For the project titled ''Center for Geospatial Intelligence & 
Investigation (GII)'' in H.R. 5658, RDT&E--Navy account, the legal name 
and address of the requesting entity is Texas State University San 
Marcos, Center for Geospatial Intelligence & Investigation, 601 
University Drive, San Marcos, TX 78666. The Center for Geospatial 
Intelligence & Investigation is conducting research of interest to the 
US military. Recognizing the need for better tools to track down 
insurgents responsible for kidnapping, maiming, and killing US Forces, 
allies, and civilians in operations in OIF and OEF, the Army sanctioned 
the initial stage of this project through the Army Topographic 
Engineering Center in FY06. This project is designed to assist in 
counter-IED (improvised explosive devices) efforts having a direct 
impact on increased safety levels and reduced risk of injury and/or 
death for U.S. military forces deployed to OIF and OEF. Funds will be 
used for the next phase of the project supported by the US Marines 
Systems Command. Employing a cross-disciplinary approach, GII seeks to 
help military and military intelligence officials build more powerful 
investigative and analytic tools. This project will continue to develop 
computer modeling based on insurgent behavioral theories to help 
extract knowledge from information and data, assisting military 
officials in predicting insurgent activity areas and bases of 
operation. Components of the project will focus on suicide attacks, 
attacks along main supply routes/roads, and the use of specialized 
technology to depict the ''Behavioral Decision-Making Template'' of 
insurgents. Approximately 30 percent of funds will be used for 
personnel, 10 percent for equipment, and 60 percent for other 
incidental costs such as travel.
