# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `c0df4ad814df7c76f1738ba63b7b2538`
`Mrs. LOWEY â€” 27 July 2010`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of providing urgently 
needed funds for our troops and diplomats to address the most pressing 
international crisis.

This bill provides approximately $3.7 billion for State Department 
operations and assistance programs in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq, 
which are critical, not to continue war but to execute the President's 
strategy to bring home our troops.

My subcommittee is addressing serious concerns about the oversight of 
our assistance in Afghanistan. The administration must expend every 
dime of these funds responsibly and efficiently to advance our security 
interests.

An additional $1.8 billion will aid recovery efforts in Haiti where 
1,450,000 people remain displaced and struggle daily to survive. Other 
international assistance includes $175 million for Mexico for 
counternarcotics programs and $150 million in economic and military 
assistance for Jordan, an important ally facing increased economic and 
security pressures.

While I am pleased this bill includes an increased responsibility for 
airlines to check passenger lists against the TSA's issued No Fly List 
to prevent continued air security breakdowns, I am deeply disappointed 
it has been stripped of funding to help prevent teacher layoffs--an 
emergency in our districts. I hope the House will provide additional 
funds to preserve and create jobs in the coming months to continue our 
economic recovery.