# THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `c0ea9f032318fe24fada56d951e12bf3`
`Ms. LEE â€” 11 January 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, first let me thank the gentlelady from 
California (Ms. Waters), for organizing this special order tonight, but 
also for her leadership in the Out of Iraq Caucus, which is growing 
each and every day.

I think most Members now, whether they supported or opposed the 
authorization to use force, understand now that we must get out of 
Iraq. So I want to thank Congresswoman Waters and all of the members 
for continuing to beat the drum on behalf of the American people.

Last night, President Bush went on prime time television to present 
to the Nation the results really of what I call his ''listening tour'' 
on what to do about Iraq. Four years into this war, the President has 
suddenly taken an interest in listening, but he is certainly not 
hearing the American people.

A Washington Post-ABC News poll conducted after the President made 
his case for escalation found that 61 percent of Americans oppose 
sending more than 20,000 additional troops to Iraq, with 52 percent 
saying that they strongly oppose the plan. Just 36 percent said that 
they backed the President's new proposal, and a majority of Americans 
said Bush's plan for our troops will make no difference whether the war 
can be won or lost.

The American people oppose this escalation. Members of Congress 
oppose this escalation. The President's own military advisers oppose 
this escalation. But in spite of this opposition, in spite of his 
claims to have been listening, the President went before the American 
people last night and basically just asked us to trust him, and


said, who cares about what the American people think or believe?

Well, I have a question for the President: Why, after the weapons of 
mass destruction that never existed; after the connections with al 
Qaeda that proved to be made up, with Iraq; after declaring ''mission 
accomplished'' and turning so many corners that made us, quite frankly, 
totally dizzy; why, given his track record, would we trust his judgment 
now?

Last night, the President said, ''Where mistakes have been made, the 
responsibility lies with me.'' Let me tell you, twisting the 
intelligence to rush this Nation into an unnecessary war was a mistake 
whose cost we have not yet begun to measure, not only in terms of lives 
and treasure but also in terms of our Nation's security.

I agree with the President that the responsibility does indeed lie 
with him, so he needs to rectify this mistake and bring our troops home 
and bring them home now.

It is clear that the President, quite frankly, has lost touch with 
reality. Iraq has become the defining issue of his presidency, and he 
is more interested in trying to save what remains of this horrible 
legacy than he is in proposing anything that resembles a solution to 
the mess that his administration has made in Iraq.

The President has proposed an escalation of the war in Iraq at 
precisely the time, the exact time, when the American people are 
calling for us to bring this war to an end. He is like the man who 
finds himself stuck in a hole and decides the best way out is to keep 
digging.

The question the Congress and the American people must now ask is, 
how many people should die so that the President can avoid admitting he 
has staked his Presidency and legacy on an unnecessary war whose 
implementation his administration has really botched at every single 
turn? How many have to die so that the President can save face?

The President talked about increasing funds for job creation in Iraq, 
which would be a wonderful idea, quite frankly, since we bombed the 
heck out of that country. However, his administration has a miserable 
track record. Just look at it on reconstruction and the former 
Republican Congress's unwillingness to conduct oversight over the 
waste, fraud and abuse and war profiteering, $10 billion-plus so far 
that is just being discussed, and we know it is more than $10 billion 
that has been stolen in the name of rebuilding Iraq.

So without a fix to this broken system, the President's proposed 
reconstruction funds are really just throwing more good money after 
bad, and the taxpayers certainly don't deserve this. This is, quite 
frankly, a cynical idea, with his policies the way they are now.

The President says that pursuing his failed policies in Iraq is 
critical to fighting global terrorism. But let me ask you, is spending 
$2 billion a week to referee a civil war in Iraq the best way we can 
spend our money in fighting global terrorism? Let's not forget, the 9/
11 Commission pointed out there was no connection, I mean no 
connection, between Saddam Hussein and al Qaeda prior to this war. 
Today, Iraq is a terrorist recruiting ground as a direct result, mind 
you, a direct result of this unnecessary war, and the longer we stay 
there, the worse it gets.

How much money should be spent propping up a failed policy in Iraq so 
that the President can kick the can and hand off responsibilities for 
his failed policy, quite frankly, this is what I think he is trying to 
do, to the next occupant of the Oval Office?

Finally, let me just say, in October, the President was asked if he 
would rule out military bases, permanent military bases, and his 
refusal to say yes, which he refused to say, really did fuel the 
mistrust of the Iraqi public and strengthen the insurgency.

So, Madam Chairman, I want to thank you again for your voice and for 
maintaining the 70-plus members of the Out of Iraq Caucus. This is a 
civil war. It is an occupation which should end, and the best way that 
we support our troops is to bring our troops home.