# IRAN COUNTER-PROLIFERATION ACT OF 2007
## `c101dd91fcb552adb6ed7d7491b06aa4`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN â€” 25 September 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, today is a day of contrast. Today as we stand here in 
this hallowed Chamber of democracy discussing the threat that Iran 
poses to the United States and, indeed, to global security, to its own 
people as well, Iran's leader will later be spewing his venomous 
rhetoric before the United Nations General Assembly.

Last year, the leader of the Iranian regime called for Israel to be 
wiped off the map and for a new wave of Palestinian attacks to destroy 
the Jewish state. He further stated that anyone who recognizes Israel 
will burn in the fire of the fury of Islamic nations.

This is not the first time that the Iranian leadership has called for 
the destruction of Israel. On December 14, 2001, former Iranian leader 
Rafsanjani threatened Israel with nuclear attack, saying that the use 
of even one nuclear bomb inside Israel would destroy that country while 
it would do little harm to the Islamic world.

Given the Iranian regime's history of acting on its declarations, we 
should be under no illusions regarding its intentions. And its 
intentions are to get a nuclear weapon. In fact, they are even taking 
out advertisements about it.



Let me show you this very revealing ad that appeared in the May issue 
of the Economist. As they say, ''a picture is worth a thousand words.'' 
Even as the International Atomic Energy Agency reported that ''gaps 
remain in the agency's knowledge with respect to the scope and content 
of Iran's centrifuge program . . . including the role of the military 
in Iran's nuclear program . . .'' and voiced concern regarding 
''undeclared nuclear material and activities in Iran,'' and even as 
additional sanctions were being considered against Iran by the United 
Nations Security Council, this request for proposals for two new large 
nuclear plants appeared in a major western magazine. And let me point 
out that the ad clearly identifies the name of the bank, a European 
bank. For the record, it is Austria Bank Creditansalt, with the account 
number clearly evident in the advertisement.

Mr. Speaker, for over 5 years, Iran has been manipulating the 
international community, buying time to expand and to hide its nuclear 
program, and it is making rapid progress. The International Atomic 
Energy Agency report of August 30 of this year stated that Iran is 
running almost 2,000 centrifuges with as many more being tested or 
under construction, indicating that it has already overcome many of the 
roadblocks to manufacturing nuclear fuel, including weapons-grade 
material.

The estimate of the International Atomic Energy Agency, however, may 
be too conservative. Iranian leader Ahmadinejad put the number of 
centrifuges at 3,000 and said that the program was making great 
strides. His comments underscored his regime's intense focus on its 
nuclear weapons program and should increase our focus and our sense of 
urgency.



When thinking of the consequences of an Iranian nuclear bomb, we must 
always remember that Iran is the number one state sponsor of terrorism, 
supplying weapons, funding, training and sanctuary to terrorist groups 
such as Hezbollah and Hamas that have murdered countless civilians and 
threatens our allies in the region and elsewhere; that Iran continues 
to supply Shiite Islamic groups in Iraq with money, training and 
weapons that fuel sectarian violence; that Iran is responsible for the 
deaths of U.S. troops by providing the resources and the materials used 
for improvised explosive devices, or IEDs, and other much more powerful 
weapons; that Iran is also supplying the Taliban with weapons to use 
against our troops serving in Afghanistan.

My daughter-in-law is proudly wearing our Nation's uniform right now 
in Afghanistan, and Iran's work is a danger to her and all of our sons 
and daughters serving overseas.

However, Tehran's pursuit of these destructive policies has one 
weakness, namely, its dependence on the revenue derived from energy 
exports. For that reason, the U.S. has targeted Iran's energy sector, 
attempting to starve it of its foreign investment. U.S. law prohibits 
American firms from investing in Iran, but foreign entities continue to 
do so. To address that problem, my distinguished colleague, my good 
friend from California, the chairman of our committee, Mr. Lantos, and 
I introduced the Iran Freedom Support Act, which was enacted into law 
in September of last year.

This legislation under consideration today, however, H.R. 1400, 
builds upon that foundation, reiterates the application of the Iran 
Sanctions Act, ISA, to parent companies of foreign subsidiaries that 
engage in activities that ISA would prohibit for U.S. entities. Like 
its predecessors, the Iraq Freedom Support Act and H.R. 957, this bill 
before us, H.R. 1400, expands the application of the Iran Sanctions Act 
to any financial institution, insurer, underwriter, guarantor, or other 
business organization including any foreign subsidiary of the 
foregoing. Mr. Speaker, this bill enlarges the scope of the ISA 
sanctions to include the sale of oil or liquefied natural gas tankers.

In addition, the bill before us states the sense of Congress that the 
United States should prevent foreign banks from providing export 
credits to foreign entities seeking to invest in Iran's energy sector. 
And in line with the Iran Freedom Support Act, which urged the 
President to instruct the U.S. ambassador to the U.N. to push for 
United Nations Security Council sanctions against Iran, this bill 
before us commends the U.N. Security Council for its previous action 
and urges additional action.

H.R. 1400 also restricts U.S. nuclear cooperation with any country 
that helps Iran's nuclear program or transfers advanced conventional 
weapons or missiles to Iran. This puts countries seeking to maintain 
good relations with the U.S. on notice that we will not allow ourselves 
to be used as indirect purveyors of nuclear assistance to Iran.

Finally, let me emphasize, Mr. Speaker, that this bill speaks 
directly to the people of Iran. The regime in Tehran continues its 
brutal crackdown on human rights advocates, on religious and ethnic 
minorities, on opponents in the universities and the press, and on 
dissidents in general. And to address their plight, the bill before us 
expresses the unwavering support of the American people for the tens of 
millions of Iranians suffering under a brutal medieval regime.

We must always remember that we share a common enemy, the regime in 
Tehran, and a common goal, which is freedom.

Mr. Speaker, thank you for this time. But I mostly want to thank the 
chairman of our committee, Mr. Lantos, for his leadership on this 
issue, and I strongly urge my colleagues to support its adoption.

And with that, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.