# None
## `c11cc7bba393af5671754ae378dd3a5d`
`Mr. PENCE â€” 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this rule and in 
opposition to the hate crimes provisions and the balance of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010.

Throughout my nearly 9 years in Congress, I've been down range with 
our troops every year, in Afghanistan and Iraq. I've also supported 
every Defense authorization bill that has come before this body, and so 
I rise with a heavy heart today to say that I will break that personal 
tradition in opposing this bill.

Now, no one doubts that the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 is an important piece of legislation whose essential 
elements will provide for our troops the critical resources they need 
to accomplish their mission. However, the majority in this Congress has 
cynically included hate crimes provisions in this legislation that 
threaten the very freedoms of speech and religion that draw our 
soldiers into the uniform of this Nation.

Men and women throughout our history have put on the uniform for a 
variety of reasons, some out of a sense of patriotism, some out of a 
sense of love for their families, love for their country, a sense of 
duty; but in every single case, I would offer that, from the American 
Revolution forward, every American who has put on the uniform of this 
country has done so to defend freedom. Therefore, the very idea that we 
would erode the freedoms for which our soldiers wear the uniform in a 
bill that is designed to provide resources those soldiers need to get 
the job done and come home safe is unconscionable.

It is simply inappropriate to use the Defense bill as a vehicle for 
divisive liberal social policies wholly unrelated to our country's 
national security. Here, the Democrats in the majority, with the assent 
of this administration, are piling liberal social priorities on to the 
backs of our soldiers. This is disturbing, I suspect, to millions of 
Americans and counterproductive to the legislative process.

But on to the substance of hate crimes. I find myself in strong 
agreement this day with Thomas Jefferson who said, and I quote, 
''Legislative powers of government reach actions only, not opinions.'' 
And he actually connected that very principle with the foundation and 
rationale for the First Amendment. The hate crimes provisions in this 
legislation, as before, are antithetical to those First Amendment 
traditions and unnecessary. Violent attacks on people are already 
illegal, regardless of the motive behind them. And there's no evidence 
that the underlying violent crimes at issue here are not being fully 
and aggressively prosecuted under current law.

Therefore, in a practical sense, hate crimes serve no purpose. But 
they instead penalize people for thoughts, beliefs and attitude and 
send us down that very slope that Thomas Jefferson warned against. Now, 
some of these thoughts and beliefs and attitudes, racism, sexism, bias 
against people because of their sexual preferences, I find abhorrent. I 
disdain discrimination. I disdain bigotry. But these hate crimes 
provisions, including those that will be added to Federal law today, 
are broad enough to encompass legitimate beliefs, and protecting the 
rights of freedom and speech and religion must be first and foremost 
and paramount on the floor of this chamber.

To put it quite simply, adding hate crimes provisions in this Defense 
bill puts us on a slippery slope of deeming particular groups as more 
important than others under our system of justice. Singling out 
particular groups of victims erodes our longstanding legal principle of 
equal protection under the law as well. The First Amendment of the 
Constitution provides that Congress shall make no law respecting an 
establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. 
America was founded on the notion that the government should not 
interfere with the religious practices or expressions of our people.

But there is a real possibility that these provisions in this Defense 
bill having to do with hate crimes and sexual preference could have 
that effect. These provisions, as written, could result in a chilling 
effect against religious leaders in this country. As has been 
previously stated by Judge Carter of Texas, under section two of title 
18 of the U.S. Code today, an individual may be held criminally liable 
who aids, abets, counsels, commands or induces or procures in the 
commission of a Federal crime.

Therefore, to put a fine point on it, any pastor, preacher, priest, 
rabbi, or imam who may give a sermon out of their moral traditions 
about sexual practices could presumably, under this legislation, be 
found to have aided, abetted or induced in the commission of a Federal 
crime. This will have a chilling effect on religious expression from 
the pulpits, in our temples, in our mosques and in our churches; and it 
must be undone.

So let me say, as I close, the provisions added to this legislation 
threaten religious freedom by criminalizing thought. It is simply wrong 
to further criminalize thought and chill religious expressions of 
Americans. But let me also say, as I said before, a Defense 
authorization bill ought to be about the national defense. And here we 
have, in this majority, in an effort, presumably, any effort to move 
liberal social policies at home, a willingness to pile unrelated 
liberal priorities on the backs of an effort to advance our national 
security. And that's unconscionable.



Let's remember what our soldiers are fighting for. Let's remember why 
they put on the uniform. They wear the uniform to defend freedom. So 
let's take a stand for freedom today and let's take a stand for a 
legislative process that has genuine integrity to purpose.

I urge my colleagues to vote against the rule, and I sadly urge my 
colleagues to vote against the Defense authorization bill.