# None
## `c11e778f57806b6ae2bb930816f1e21e`
`Mr. INOUYE â€” 29 November 2010`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I rise this evening to speak against the 
Coburn amendment which imposes a moratorium on congressional 
initiatives for the next 3 years.

Mr. President, our Founding Fathers bestowed upon the Congress the 
authority to ensure that the people's representatives would make the 
final decision upon spending, not the executive


branch. They had lived under a monarchy in which the power of the purse 
resided with the Executive, and they had no desire to repeat that 
experience. In short, our Founding Fathers did not want another King, 
they wanted a President but a President whose power would be held 
firmly in check by a coequal Congress.

None of us should be surprised that President Obama is expressing his 
opposition to earmarks. A ban on earmarks would serve to strengthen the 
executive branch of government by empowering the President to make 
decisions that the Constitution wisely places in the hands of Congress. 
This is the exact same reason Presidents Clinton and Bush sought the 
line-item veto during their Presidencies.

As I have said many times before, the people of Hawaii did not elect 
me to serve as a rubberstamp for any administration. Handing over the 
power of the purse to the executive branch would turn the Constitution 
on its head.

So I must admit, Mr. President, I find it puzzling that some 
Republicans would want to grant all authority over spending to any 
President but especially a Democratic President. Make no mistake, that 
is exactly what this amendment will do.

We have heard numerous misleading arguments from opponents of 
earmarks, but several in particular seem to be repeated again and 
again. I cannot allow the misinformation or misrepresentation to go 
unanswered.

First and foremost, opponents falsely claim that earmarks contribute 
to the deficit. Perhaps the strongest proponent of this argument is the 
junior Senator from South Carolina who stated the following in a 
fundraising letter he sent out in October:




 I am not willing to bankrupt my country for earmarks.


It is a fine statement. This is but one example of the many times 
over the past year in which so-called deficit hawks have falsely 
asserted that earmarks are the root cause of our Nation's fiscal 
problems. This is especially galling when you consider that many of 
these same individuals supported the policies that led directly to the 
current budget crisis.

In the interest of setting the record straight, and as chairman of 
the Senate Appropriations Committee, I feel compelled to point out to 
my colleagues that eliminating earmarks would do virtually nothing to 
balance the Federal budget. This is a cynical attempt to distract the 
American people from the serious challenges before us and nothing more.

The numbers clearly demonstrate just how misleading the arguments of 
earmark opponents are. According to the most recent Congressional 
Budget Office estimate, Federal spending for fiscal year 2010 totals 
about $3.5 trillion, and revenues for that year total about $2.2 
trillion, resulting in a deficit of $1.3 trillion. Congressional 
initiatives make up less than /1/2/ of 1 percent of the total Federal 
spending. If we accept this proposal to eliminate all earmarks and take 
the second necessary step of actually applying the savings to deficit 
reduction, the total deficit for the United States would still be $1.3 
trillion.

If opponents were serious about eliminating the deficit and paying 
down the national debt, they would offer a specific plan for cutting 
the $1.2 trillion in spending or for increasing revenues. Instead, they 
choose to mislead the American people by implying that we can balance 
the budget by cutting a tiny fraction of Federal spending.

Calling for the elimination of congressional earmarks is a legitimate 
philosophical position to take, although not one with which I agree. 
However, to suggest that earmarks are the cause of our deficit of $1.3 
trillion is irresponsible.

Adding to this misleading rhetoric are allegations that 
congressionally directed spending is an inherently corrupt practice 
that is hidden from the public eye. That allegation is simply false. We 
all recognize that the practices of the previous majorities led to 
significant abuses of the system. However, since we recaptured the 
Congress in 2006, Democrats have instituted a series of major reforms 
that now hold Members accountable and have made earmarking more 
transparent than ever. That is the law.

I would ask any of my colleagues: Can anyone name another part of the 
Federal budget--and let me remind my colleagues we are talking about 
less than /1/2/ of 1 percent of the budget--that is subject to more 
scrutiny than earmarks?

The Appropriations Committee requires every Member to post his or her 
request 30 days prior to the committee's consideration of the relevant 
appropriations bill. The committee requires every Member to submit a 
letter that he or she does not have a pecuniary interest in the 
projects for which the funding is being requested. The committee's Web 
site provides a link to every single Member's request. These are all 
reforms that were implemented when the Democrats took control of the 
Senate and the House.

To pretend and suggest that earmarks are being doled out in a 
business-as-usual manner reflective of previous Congresses is flatout 
misleading. Reforms have been made that allow great projects that 
provide benefits to the Nation and to individual States and districts 
to be funded while ensuring that the abuses of the early and mid-2000s 
are a thing of the past. There can be no doubt that we have entered an 
age of real transparency when it comes to earmarks.

Moreover, each and every earmark that comes before the Senate today 
is listed in the committee report so that all Members are able to 
identify them and know exactly what they are voting on. Of course, the 
Internet makes all earmark requests available to the press and to the 
public. The Internet also makes all campaign contributions over $200 
equally accessible. So where is the so-called corruption? Where are the 
secret deals? I would like to know about them.

Further, I remind my colleagues that in 2010, funding for earmarks is 
less than half of the $32 billion in earmarks provided in 2006.

I have spent considerable time refuting the misinformation being 
spread by those who are opposed to congressionally directed spending 
initiatives. If I may, I would like to highlight a few examples of why 
the practice of earmarking is indeed necessary.

As chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I have 
witnessed the benefits of earmarks firsthand over many years. I have 
previously discussed the benefits to our troops and our Nation of the 
Predator drone--the pilotless drone that is able to pick up enemy sites 
without endangering our troops. I have pointed to the new bandages that 
quickly stop bleeding in serious wounds that have saved countless lives 
of our soldiers fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. Mr. President, these 
are earmarks.

Let me now turn to other areas of the Federal budget. I will start by 
reminding my colleagues that one of the most successful programs for 
low-income women and infants started out as an earmark. In the 1969 
Agriculture appropriations bill, Congress earmarked funds for a new 
program called WIC to provide critical nutrition to low-income women, 
infants, and children.

Over the past 41 years, this program has provided nutritional 
assistance to over 150 million women, infants, and children, making a 
critical contribution to the health of the Nation. This vital program 
has provided much needed assistance to millions, and it came into 
existence as an earmark.

In 1969 and 1970, Congress earmarked $25 million for a children's 
hospital in Washington, DC, despite the objections to and the veto by 
the President. That funding resulted in what we know today as the 
Children's National Medical Center. Children's Hospital has become a 
national and international leader in neonatal and pediatric care, 
providing health care to over 5 million children since its doors 
opened. Again, I note this was an idea--an earmark--directed by 
Congress and vetoed by the President.

In 1987, Congress earmarked funds at the request of Senator Domenici 
for mapping the human gene. This project became known as the human 
genome project. This research has led to completely new strategies for 
disease prevention and treatment, including the discoveries of dramatic 
new methods of identifying and treating breast, ovarian, and colon 
cancers. No one disputes that these advances will save many lives, and 
it all began with an earmark.


This was a project that was not supported by unelected agency 
bureaucrats in the executive branch, and thus would never have made it 
into the budget without congressional intervention.

In the early 1990s, I pursued, along with my dear friend, the Senator 
from Alaska, the late Ted Stevens, an earmark through NOAA to fund a 
tsunami warning system. This earmark came under attack in the late 
1990s and early 2000 by a few Members as wasteful spending. Of course, 
in this particular case, as in many others, time and events would prove 
this to be a wise investment of tax dollars.


We all remember that on December 26, 2004, the Indian Ocean tsunami 
occurred, killing over 200,000 people in 14 countries. Two years later, 
the Republican Congress passed and the Bush administration signed into 
law the Tsunami Warning and Education Act. This legislation was based 
on the foundation established by the 14 years of earmarking for the 
Tsunami Hazard Mitigation Program.

A congressional initiative that began in 1998 at the behest of 
Senator Gregg would lead to the creation of the National Domestic 
Preparedness Consortium, which is now the principal vehicle through 
which FEMA identifies, develops, tests, and delivers training to State 
and local emergency responders. The program began as a series of 
earmarks for several nationally recognized organizations which focused 
on counterterrorism preparedness and response needs of the Nation's 
Federal, State, and local emergency first responders and emergency 
management agencies. As a result of the training and expertise 
providing by NDPC members, thousands of New York City first responders 
had been through counterterrorism preparedness and response training at 
the centers prior to the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

There are thousands of other earmarks just like these that, over the 
years, have made a difference in the lives of Americans, projects the 
bureaucrats in downtown Washington never hear about because they do not 
communicate with constituents on a regular basis, programs such as the 
Predator and the Human Genome Project that are so innovative that an 
unelected, unaccountable government official is reluctant to include 
them in the budget out of fear that he or she will be accused of 
wasting taxpayer funds on an unproven technology.

Other Members will be speaking against this amendment and will have 
examples of why simply stopping all earmarking is wrong and detrimental 
for government and our citizens. The Founding Fathers bestowed upon 
Congress the responsibility to determine how our taxes should be spent, 
rather than leaving those decisions to unelected bureaucrats in the 
administration, and obviously with good reason. Certainly we can all 
agree that Members of Congress who return home nearly every weekend to 
meet with constituents have a much better understanding of what is 
needed in our cities and towns across rural America than do the 
bureaucrats sitting in Washington.

For all these reasons, I will continue to defend the right of 
Congress to direct spending to worthy projects as long as I am 
privileged to serve in the Senate and call attention to those who 
distort the facts of the subject.

I urge my colleagues to vote against the Coburn amendment. We have 
already taken significant and forceful steps to ensure the abuses of 
the past are not repeated. This amendment ignores those steps while at 
the same time deprives the Congress of essential constitutional 
prerogatives. It does nothing to decrease the debt and is designed to 
give political cover to those who lack a serious commitment to deficit 
reduction.

I yield the floor.