# IKE SKELTON NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `c1ded72cef5d37e23a4a2919d83a289e`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas â€” 17 December 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Chairman Skelton, America thanks you. The 
troops in Texas thank you, and all of the troops around the world thank 
you.

I thank you for strengthening your commitment to service men and 
women and their families.

Readiness has been your challenge. I thank you for that. For 
strengthening the military forces, for making sure they have the right, 
secure, safe, and the most technologically sophisticated equipment, I 
thank you.

Likewise, let me say to you: For your demeanor and spirit, for the 
tears you shed for those who lost their lives, you have never wavered; 
and for the service that you gave as a young man in the United States 
military, I cannot thank you enough.

I come today to support this Ike Skelton bill and to ask my 
colleagues to pay tribute to this American hero.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 6523, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2011 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.

As a Member of both the Foreign Affairs and Homeland Security 
Committees, I highly commend Chairman Ike Skelton for his steadfast 
leadership and tireless efforts to invest in our military to increase 
our national security. I join him in strongly supporting the men and 
women of our Armed Forces; they make the greatest of sacrifices to 
ensure our national security as a matter of duty. So, I stand here 
today to say to my colleagues here in Congress, that ''now it is our 
duty to take care of the military families who take care of us!''

This defense bill reflects our commitment to support the men and 
women who fight to secure not only our citizen's freedom, but the 
freedom of others. In H.R. 6523, Chairman Ike Skelton and the Armed 
Services Committee provide the necessary resources to protect the 
American people and our national interests at home and abroad.

The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 makes 
record investments in our Nation's military, authorizing a $725 billion 
budget to further strengthen our national security, provide our brave 
men and women in uniform with the tools to do their jobs, and take care 
of our servicemembers and their families who make sacrifices right 
there beside them. It utilizes a sound and balanced strategy to provide 
the resources we need to sustain two wars today and to be prepared for 
the threats of tomorrow--whatever and wherever they may be.

This legislation: Strengthens counterterrorism efforts and force 
protection; strengthens missile defense; strengthens nuclear 
nonproliferation; strengthens support for servicemembers and their 
families; strengthens military forces; and strengthens defense 
acquisition.

The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, further 
strengthens our national security by continuing Congress' work to 
provide the necessary funding, authorities, and oversight for those who 
defend America from terrorists. It fully supports President Obama's 
counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan, the nation that served as 
the genesis for multiple attacks against America, including the 
terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The President's plan in 
Afghanistan continues to show clear signs of tactical success, putting 
us on the road toward ensuring that Afghanistan will no longer be used 
as a safe haven for terrorists.

The bill provides the resources to successfully implement this new 
strategy and continues to fix the dramatic shortfalls of the previous 
Administration, when the war in Afghanistan was the forgotten war. It 
supports the President's strategy on both sides of the border, helping 
to strengthen the relationship with


Pakistan by expanding Coalition Support Funds. Additionally, it 
supports the President's efforts to strengthen strategic partnerships 
with key nations, such as Yemen.


The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, also 
takes unprecedented steps to strengthen our missile defense, continuing 
to move away from the Cold War mentality and instead align our missile 
defense policy with the threats of the 21st century. The bill provides 
support to the President's new Phased, Adaptive Approach to missile 
defense, which places the highest priority on countering our most 
immediate threats from nations like Iran and North Korea with proven 
and effective defense systems, while still providing us with the 
flexibility to be prepared for the threats of tomorrow.

The efforts of terrorist organizations like al Qaeda to obtain 
nuclear capabilities are among the most serious threats facing America 
today. While the threat of nuclear war with a superpower is 
diminishing, the threat of nuclear terrorism and the risk that nuclear 
materials might spread to countries hostile to the U.S. are increasing. 
We cannot adequately protect our Nation until we bring our nuclear 
policy out of the Cold War era and into the 21st century, and the bill 
fully supports the President's efforts to secure vulnerable nuclear 
material and prevent the spread of nuclear weapons to those who seek to 
do us harm. It funds key programs such as the Department of Energy's 
Global Threat Reduction Initiative and International Nuclear Materials 
Protection and Cooperation program and the Global Nuclear Lockdown 
activities under the Department of Defense's Cooperative Threat 
Reduction Program.

Our Nation has the best military in the world, and Congress remains 
committed to providing the very best care and benefits to our troops 
and the families who are always there to lift them up. This year's bill 
provides a 1.4 percent pay raise to the troops, allows military 
families to extend TRICARE coverage to their dependent adult children 
until age 26, improves the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program, and 
restructures certain education benefits. This year's bill also includes 
the most comprehensive legislation package ever to address sexual 
assault in the military and creates a more robust domestic violence 
prevention program.

This defense authorization bill sponsored by my colleague, 
Representative Ike Skelton, rightfully enjoys strong bi-partisan 
support. It shows our military families that we truly value their 
service and sacrifice, and provides our military with the level of 
support they need to keep our national security strong. As a member of 
the Foreign Affairs and Homeland Security Committees from the great 
State of Texas, which is home to some 15 military bases and has a proud 
history of national service, I strongly support this legislation and 
thank my colleagues for joining me in strengthening our national 
security and taking care of our military families.