# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `c1ff4a13bbb09eae1825e5ba8eae134f`
`Mr. BROWNBACK â€” 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I wish to address the body and my 
colleagues about Iraq, the complex situation that exists there today, 
the resolution we were not able to address on the floor this week. My 
hope is we will be able to address this resolution in the very near 
future.

Iraq is one of the most important and, certainly, complex subjects we 
will ever debate on this floor. For example, there are some Members of 
this body who want to reduce this to an either/or decision: surge into 
Iraq or withdraw from it. But the issue cannot be discussed in such 
oversimplified terms, I do not believe. Our decisions, whatever they 
end up being, carry consequences far beyond the number of troops who 
are deployed within Iraq's borders. Those who favor a withdrawal or a 
phased withdrawal from Iraq must wholly appreciate those consequences.

We have heard that withdrawal from Iraq would leave a safe haven for 
terrorists. That is almost certainly assured. We have heard that 
withdrawal would destabilize the region. That is certainly true as 
well. But a withdrawal is even worse than that. A cut-and-run strategy 
would set the stage for a regionwide conflict between gulf states, Arab 
countries, and Iran and its sphere of influence, and not just a 
regional war but a bigger one. Such a war would have enormous 
implications for the war on terrorism and stability around the world. 
We cannot withdraw from the Middle East and leave behind the kind of 
chaos in which al-Qaida thrives. If Arabs feel compelled to counter an 
Iranian threat, the governments are likely to become more radical, not 
more moderate. We recognized in the aftermath of September 11 that 
winning the war on terror requires the emergence of moderate 
governments across the Middle East. Withdrawing from Iraq would amount 
to pushing the governments of the region toward the arms of Islamist 
radicals and undermine the core of our counterterrorism strategy since 
9/11. This is not the way to go.

We must acknowledge that we cannot afford to lose in Iraq because 
such a loss would reverse the gains we have made in the war on terror 
and extend the war on terror for years to come. On the other hand, I am 
not convinced that a troop surge into Iraq will usher in the sort of 
peace we need to take the place of the consequences I have just 
discussed.

I have no doubt our forces are capable of winning any and every 
individual battle in which they engage. I have been with the troops. I 
have been with the troops within the past month. They are strong. They 
are determined. They are courageous. And they are doing a fabulous job. 
I believe strongly they are capable of defeating the al-Qaida 
insurgency in Iraq and, as they have demonstrated recently, they are 
quite capable of defeating Iranian agents seeking to foment violence 
and instability inside of Iraq. What they cannot do, what our troops 
cannot do, is achieve a political solution between Iraq's sectarian 
groups. That is a political problem which requires a political 
solution. As I found out during my recent travels to Iraq, the 
sectarian violence is the overwhelming cause of Iraq's difficulties. 
Additional troops on the streets simply will not make Sunni and Shia 
trust each other.

I say this with great respect to General Petraeus, who is a friend, 
whom we have confirmed to be the commander of the multinational forces 
in Iraq. I met with General Petraeus several times during his tenure 
when he was commander at Fort Leavenworth in my home State of Kansas. 
He is a bright, articulate, and outstanding officer. I believe he is 
well qualified to take on this extraordinarily difficult assignment. I 
voted to confirm him because he is the right man for such a difficult 
position, and I wish him Godspeed.



I understand there are different constitutional roles that must be 
played in the debate over our strategy in Iraq. The President has the 
responsibility as Commander in Chief to direct the Armed Forces. As 
part of that responsibility, he sent us a commander he believes will 
serve well under his overall direction, and I could not agree more.

The Senate has the right, if it chooses, to express its opinion of 
the President's actions. And we do so. It is entirely possible for the 
Senate to express its disapproval of the President's strategy without 
taking steps to undermine the commander or the troops. I have indicated 
that I do not support the President's surge plan, but I did not attempt 
to undermine the Commander in Chief or our soldiers in the field by 
voting against General Petraeus, who is very well qualified for 
command, nor will I attempt or support efforts to undermine our troops 
by withdrawing their funding. This is the essence of disagreeing at 
home while being united overseas.

A Senate debate over strategy is consistent with our constitutional 
roles to voice opinion and oversee the executive branch. Denying 
promotions of qualified leaders or cutting funding to the troops in the 
field would not only be inappropriate but irresponsible.

Let me now turn to those things which I endorse wholeheartedly.

First, I support our troops. They are brave, as I have stated, 
dedicated, and talented. They deserve not only our admiration and 
gratitude but our very best efforts to help them achieve their mission. 
And I support that mission. Our troops are vital to prevent the kind of 
regional instability I spoke of earlier. They are crucial to denying 
radical Islamic extremists a safe haven from which they can launch 
further attacks. They are essential to providing the training necessary 
for the Iraqi security forces to take charge of their own country's 
security.

As I have said, we cannot afford to lose this fight. Iraq is the key 
front in the war on terrorism. We must remain in Iraq as long as it 
takes to ensure that Iraq can fend off external threats in a tough 
neighborhood as well as take full responsibility for its own internal 
security and prevent the establishment of terrorist safe havens within 
its territory. But I fully understand we cannot sustain this kind of 
long-term commitment in Iraq that will likely be necessary unless we 
have bipartisan support here at home. We must be united here if we are 
to achieve victory over there.

This principle was at the foundation of the efforts of the Baker-
Hamilton commission, which sought to bring people together on a way 
forward that could have broad support. I supported the commission's 
report as something we could rally around together. I do not agree with 
every part of that report. Some recommendations, such as those linking 
the Arab-Israeli conflict with the problems in Iraq, just do not seem 
to make sense to me. Neither a peace accord between Israel and 
Palestinians nor new arrangements in the Golan Heights will convince 
Iran or al-Qaida to get out of Iraq or end the sectarian violence. But 
I supported the overall report because it could have been something we 
could use to build bipartisan support for a new strategy in Iraq.

If we cannot rally around that report, perhaps we can rally around a 
Senate resolution that can gain strong bipartisan support, uniting us 
here to win over there. Many of us have been working toward this goal. 
Many of us support a resolution or resolutions that provide responsible 
opposition to the surge. We do not want to see funds withdrawn from our 
troops, nor do we believe in withdrawing from Iraq. I hope the party 
now in the majority in this Chamber will articulate exactly what it can 
support.

There has been a lot of discussion in the last several days about 
funding for our troops. I am concerned that already there are plans to 
use the supplemental and the regular appropriations process to restrict 
funding for operations in Iraq. Our troops face the threat of real 
casualties daily. They ought not be casualties of our debates on Iraq.

I have indicated my support for the Warner resolution because it 
responsibly articulates an opposition to the surge while guaranteeing 
our troops in the field have the support they deserve from this body 
and from the American public. This is a responsible approach. I hope 
that whatever resolution reaches the floor includes a promise of 
support for our troops. I will not support proposals that do not 
include such provisions. We need this debate, and we need to vote on 
this.

I believe there is a way we can come together across the aisle. I 
think we can be clear about our priorities. The first priority I think 
we can agree on is getting the Iraqis to work and agree on a political 
solution to the sectarian violence occurring between Sunnis and Shias. 
We must encourage the Iraqis to reach a political equilibrium, 
eliminating the motivation for sectarian strife. We should make sure 
Iraq's borders are secure. We should chase the foreign fighters out of 
Iraq and deny the terrorists safe haven. And we should limit the 
influence of Iran.

I believe we can sustain this kind of military strategy for the 
necessary time to come, preserving our interests while we put pressure 
on Iraq's various groups to reach a political settlement. For this 
reason, I have indicated support for the resolution, as I stated, put 
forward by Senator Warner. I believe it is the most constrictive 
resolution we will consider. It outlines the importance of winning in 
Iraq, opposes the surge, offers reasonable political and military 
goals, and praises the efforts of our men and women in uniform. This 
resolution moves us toward the kind of consensus needed for success.

Other proposals that fail to recognize the consequences of failure, 
that advocate a precipitous withdrawal, or that provide less than full 
support for our men and women in uniform, polarize, move us away from 
consensus and further from victory.

Madam President, the Senate needs to express itself on the subject of 
Iraq. I hope we can get to a vote on a resolution that will have strong 
bipartisan support that achieves the goals I have outlined and sustains 
our commitments for as long as it takes to win in Iraq. We need to have 
an open process. We need to be able to vote on various resolutions. 
This is the most important issue facing our country. We should have a 
full, open debate and debate about it a long time and vote on several 
resolutions that people see as key. We need to address this, and we 
need to do it now. We can win. We must pull together.

Madam President, I thank the Chair and suggest the absence of a 
quorum.