# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `c223aabd263942d25a4fb5eb19595451`
`Mr. AKIN â€” 26 September 2008`

---


Mr. AKIN. Madam Speaker, in accordance with House Republican 
Conference standards, and Clause 9 of Rule XXI, I submit the following 
member requests for the record regarding H.R. 2638, The Consolidated 
Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act.

Project: Heuristic Internet Protocol Packet Inspection Engine.

Account: Army, RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: TechGuard Security, LLC.

Address of Requesting Entity: 743 Spirit 40 Park Drive, Chesterfield, 
MO 63005.

Description of Request: Provide $2,000,000 for Army, RDT&E, PE# 
0305208A, Line # 177, Distributed Common Ground/Surface System solely 
for the research, development and test of Heuristic Internet Protocol 
Packet Inspection Engine (HIPPIE). The advanced concept HIPPIE 
technology can be rapidly prototyped and deployed in a filtering 
appliance that sits in front of an existing firewall or router and uses 
unique filtering algorithms to quickly classify large numbers of 
packets--i.e., the country of origin for an IP address--without using 
slow and CPU intensive rule sets. The objective of the program is to 
miniaturize the HIPPIE through the use of nanotechnology to the point 
where it can be placed on a chip and placed directly on a computer for 
offensive or defensive cyber warfare use.

Project: High Power, Ultra-Lightweight Zinc-Air Battery.

Account: RDT&E, Navy-Marine Corps Landing Force Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Energizer Battery Manufacturing, 
Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 25225 Detroit Road, Westlake, OH 44145.

Description of Request: Provide $2,500,000 for the continued 
development (Phase II) of a high-rate capability air electrode for a 
zinc air battery system. The objective is to increase the rate 
capability by an additional 65 percent so as to support the high power 
requirements for equipment used in military and commercial 
applications. The subject zinc-air battery will provide the same energy 
and power of the incumbent battery (lithium-sulfur dioxide) for about 
half the weight and in a 60 percent smaller package. Approximately 63 
percent is for labor; and 37 percent is for materials and other 
allowable indirect costs.

On average, a U.S. soldier consumes the equivalent of 1 AA battery 
per hour in combat, and an infantry platoon, for a 3-day mission, will 
require approximately 2,500 batteries, weighing a total of almost 400 
lbs. Carrying this added weight induces fatigue and ultimately limits 
their effectiveness and ability to carry out their missions. Thus, with 
our heavily armed and battery laden troops increasingly confronting 
light and irregular forces, issues of battery weight and equipment 
reliability are more important than ever. The total project cost is 
expected to be approximately $14,000,000. Energizer will provide the 
balance of this funding and will continue to devote tens of millions of 
private R&D dollars to support the continued development of this 
technology for high power military and commercial applications.

Project: Hyperspectral Imaging for Improved Force Protection (Hyper-
IFP).

Account: Army RDT&E, (CERDEC, NVESD, Special Projects).

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Clean Earth Technologies, LLC.

Address of Requesting Entity: 13378 Lakefront Drive, Earth City, MO.

Description of Request: Provide $1,600,000 to complete the design, 
assembly, integration, test and evaluation of the Hyperspectral 
Integrated Force Protection sensor system (Hyper-IFP). Approximately 40 
percent will be used for engineering development modeling and 
simulation; 20 percent will be used for subsystems assembly and 
testing; 15 percent will be used for system integration and ground 
testing; 15 percent will be used for a deployed full system field test 
and evaluation. The request is consistent with the Army NVESD Special 
Projects office mission to develop advanced sensor systems that provide 
an operational advantage or that increase survivability of the 
warfighter. Taxpayer value is substantially enhanced by dual/multi-use 
capacity to serve a number of Homeland Security (DHS) missions in 
addition to military force protection.

Project: Mission Execution Technology Implementation.

Account: Army, RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Westar Aerospace & Defense Group, 
Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 36 Research Park Court, St. Charles MO 
63304.

Description of Request: Provide $3,200,000 for technology 
improvements urgently needed by combat units in Operation Enduring 
Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. This program will result in 
significant increases in mission effectiveness and safety for our war-
fighters. Funding is required to continue development of enterprise-
enabled, integrated Aviation tools and provide this ability to all Army 
Aviation systems to include UH-60 series, OH-58D, AH-64D, Fixed Wing, 
and UAS systems. The complete integrated aviation solution includes 
implementing the automated maintenance test flight tool, automated 
weight and balance software, and integration with current logistics and 
Aviation Mission Planning systems. The Aviation community has 
consistently requested an enhanced, fully Automated Maintenance Test 
Flight Tool for in-cockpit use, eliminating manual and repetitive 
Maintenance Test Pilot tasks and significantly reducing the labor 
required to return aircraft to full service. This solution would also 
fulfill the Army directive for a paperless system, storing the 
maintenance test flight check sheets into the Common Logistics 
Operating Environment, eliminating the paper form. Improved integration 
of automated weight and balance tools with the CLOE and the Aviation 
System of System infrastructure is critical, eliminating error-prone 
manual entries and expanding aircraft flight envelopes by eliminating 
manual lookup and interpolation of paper performance charts. The amount 
of time in calculating and recalculating loads during OPTEMPO will be 
greatly reduced from hours to mere minutes. This effort will include 
the application of commercial Aviation best practices to data and data 
processes in support of airworthiness, and the development of processes 
to support airworthiness assessments of unmanned aircraft systems 
(UAS). Airworthiness of UAS will improve safety in training and combat 
operations as well as permit the routine use of these critical 
capabilities within national airspace during natural disasters and 
homeland defense operations.

Project: Out of Autoclave Composite Processing.

Account: U.S. Navy ONR Industrial Preparedness 0708011N.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: GKN Aerospace North America.

Address of Requesting Entity: 142 J.S. McDonnell Boulevard, St. 
Louis, MO 63042.

Description of Request: Provide $1,600,000 to develop out of 
autoclave composite processing. Most composite lamination processes 
require the use of large, expensive autoclaves to cure lightweight 
composite structures for today's high technology military aircraft. The 
size of the parts fabricated is often limited by the size of the 
autoclave. This project will help develop composite curing processes 
that do not require an expensive or size limited autoclave for the 
manufacture of composite aircraft structures. This will result in lower 
cost aircraft structures and open additional opportunities outside of 
aerospace for high strength lightweight composites.
