# AMERICA'S ENERGY PROBLEM
## `c236b04db7e57e88f9284b6c205cbf11`
`Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania â€” 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania. I thank the gentleman from Texas and my 
friend from Illinois. It's a pleasure to work with both of you. And I 
just wish the majority of Congress had a deeper interest in energy.

I guess I find it confounding that this is a chart I have been using 
all year and it doesn't work anymore. This was the rise. This is 
annualized by year. It doesn't have the spikes that happened in those 
years, but this is the annualized figure. And I just find it 
confounding that last week we were bouncing all over 98, almost 100 one 
day, and not a word spoken in here about energy. It wasn't a priority. 
It was not even a discussion on this floor, except for a few of us, in 
5-minute speeches or hour speeches, like tonight, talking about it. But 
the committee is not meeting. The conference committee is not meeting. 
And I guess the question is how difficult does it have to get. Because 
here we are approaching the winter season. People have to heat their 
homes. And 58 percent of them use gas, I think 30 percent use 
electricity, and 9 percent use home heating oil, and then there are a 
few other mixtures in there. But nobody seems to be concerned.



I was a retailer for many years, supermarket operator, and I remember 
back in the 1970s and 1980s when we had the energy spikes that were 
really severe back then. And as a person in the food industry, you 
would think people would always have money for food. 1979 and 1980 were 
very difficult years in my business because people didn't have money to 
spend.

What we forget about is 50 percent or maybe 60 percent of Americans 
spend every dollar they make every week. They don't have any money in 
the drawer. They don't have any extra cash in the bank. They spend. And 
when energy prices spike like this, and especially in rural America 
where I come from, transportation costs are high in big rural areas. 
People have to travel to work, travel to church, travel to school, 
travel for everything. And then when you pay your transportation bill 
and then your home heating bill, in rural America, again, bigger old 
farmhouses, not a lot of new housing, not as energy efficient as the 
new modern housing, so they have high home heating bills. And when they 
spend an inordinate amount for home heating and for transportation, 
then they have less money. And my friend from Illinois was talking 
about it. I had tough springs. Usually in my business, I was lucky to 
break even through March. You had to make your profits the rest of the 
year. But in those years it was into May before I cracked into a profit 
because people didn't have money to buy basic fundamentals, food. I was 
in the food business. And that's what is going to happen in America 
this year. It could challenge the holiday season because it came this 
early.

I didn't expect $95 oil, and I'm going to tell you why. Everybody has 
told me that if we had a major storm in the gulf, and we have been very 
fortunate in America, we haven't had a major storm in the gulf in 2 
years. The first time ever that we've gone that length of time. 
Everybody has told me this summer, when it was 75 or 80 and I asked 
what a major storm in the gulf would bring us, $100 oil. A couple weeks 
ago, I asked a gentleman what would a storm in the gulf bring us. He 
said $120 oil. Could we handle $120 oil? I'm not sure. I don't think we 
could handle $95 oil for a long period of time and keep the economy 
moving, because a great amount of our economy is you and I shopping, 
buying goods and services, and when we have so much money being 
consumed by energy, it has to come out of our budgets. And those who 
don't have any extra cash, credit cards will only give them so much, 
and then they are going to start cutting their spending.

I think the thing that's interesting is the prediction for America. 
We have finally gotten this on a chart that anybody could figure out. 
Usually you see charts and you have lines going up and down. This is 
energy usage in America up to now. This line in the middle to my left 
is the projection by the Energy Department of what energy we are going 
to consume in this country. It doesn't change much.

Now, I wish this nonhydro renewable line up here was just exploding, 
this red. That's what we are pinning our future on. Now, I'm for it. We 
are subsidizing. The people are saying we are holding it back. We're 
not holding it back. This is the projection of the Department of Energy 
of what renewables are going to grow. That's wind and solar. That's the 
mix.

Look at hydro. Because we are not building dams and because dams are 
still being removed, hydro decreases. Now, there is a little bit of 
growth in nuclear here, very little, if we build the 35 plants that are 
under permit process tonight. We need to build those new 35 nuclear 
plants just to keep electric generation at this percentage that it is. 
I think it's 8 percent, if my memory is correct.

Coal, now I happen to disagree with the Energy Department. They have 
coal growing. With the CO2 debate, coal is going to 
diminish. And I think their projections were made before CO2 
and carbon became the issue, because I see coal plants being refused by 
States all over the country. There are permits being denied. And they 
don't show gas growing, and I disagree with the Department of Energy on 
this estimate, and they may be a little bit wrong on renewables. But if 
you double this line, that's a lot wrong. It still isn't very much, is 
it? Now, I look for gas, because every country that started dealing 
with carbon as a pollutant and started charging carbon taxes or 
penalties, natural gas is the big winner because it has a third of the 
carbon of the other fossil fuels and has no NOX or no 
SOX, nitric oxides or sulfur oxides; so I predict that it 
will come up here and coal will decrease. That's my opinion because, as 
my friend from Illinois has talked about, we ought to be building. I'm 
going to give the White House credit. They are pushing six cellulosic 
ethanol plants. I think that's good. That's pretty new technology. 
That's using woody waste or biomass of any kind to make ethanol, and I 
think that's good. But I think we ought to be building 10 coal to 
liquid plants and some coal to gas plants.

Then we look down here at oil. Oil is going to be a major part of 
America. Now, we have heard lots of speeches on this floor that we are 
going to replace oil. I wish that were true. I wish that was possible. 
But what we have decided in America is we are not going to produce oil. 
We're going to restrict it. The government owns a lot of the oil in 
America. They have control of all offshore, and 80 percent of that has 
been locked up by three Presidents, and all the Congresses in the last 
26 years have voted to literally not produce energy. In Brazil, who is 
energy independent and everybody says it's ethanol, well, ethanol is a 
piece of it. It's a nice piece of it. But they've opened up their Outer 
Continental Shelf, and I think they just found one of the biggest finds 
ever off South America just in the last week, and Brazil is producing 
offshore like we ought to be producing.

But oil is what scares me. Number one, we are not producing it, so we 
are part of causing the shortage in the world. Number two, we are 
gaining dependency on foreign, unstable governments, 2 percent a year. 
And I think if we pass the energy bill that I hear rumored about, it 
will probably be 3 percent a year. And I hear people say we are going 
to be energy dependent. Well, there is no way in our lifetime, probably 
my lifetime anyway, and some of you may be younger, that we can be 
energy independent. We can be less dependent. I would like us to be 
energy independent, but we can only be less dependent. But this one 
just keeps marching on.

And why is it $95? Well, we have countries like China who are 
producing energy all over the world. They are locking up oil and gas 
reserves in every part of the world. Every part of the world. They're 
going to be producing less than 50 miles off of Florida with Cuba, as 
are five or six other countries. In our waters, actually, they are 
going to be producing oil that we should be producing. But we have 
locked up those 200 miles offshore and cannot produce there.

So my biggest fear, and I will just ask the question, what if one 
unstable administering country topples? What does that do to the price 
of oil? What if we have a storm like Katrina? What does that do to the 
price of oil? What if terrorists struck a couple of refineries, some 
pipelines, some loading stations in foreign countries where we get a 
lot of our energy? What happens to the price of oil? Will China stop 
anytime soon purchasing and outbidding us? I predict in the near future 
you are going to see China announcing a major oil coup with a major 
supplier that has been part of our supply system. That's what they are 
doing. They are out there locking it up.

It's interesting in the summertime we get 20 percent of our gasoline 
from Europe. This spring we had $3.09 gasoline in my market, which we 
have $3.09 now, at $63 oil. We now have 90-some-dollar oil, and we 
still only have $3.09 gasoline because gasoline has not yet caught up 
with the oil price, plus at the end of the summer there was a surplus 
of gasoline. This spring when the driving season started, Europe was 
short of gas themselves, so they couldn't supply us with the gasoline 
they normally did. So there was a shortage in the market, and, of 
course, that runs the marketplace up. So $3.09 gasoline was abnormal, 
just as abnormal as $3.09 gasoline is in America today with $95 oil. We 
are probably looking at $3.49, $3.50 gasoline would sort of be the 
price if it was being used out of today's oil and with not a surplus of 
supply.

Here is a chart that tells what we use: 40 percent petroleum, 23 
percent


natural gas. Now, this figure has grown a lot because 13 years ago we 
took away the prohibition of using natural gas to make electricity, and 
we went from 8 or 9 percent of our electricity made with natural gas. 
We only allowed it to be used for peak power in the morning and evening 
when we have to turn them on and off. And a gas generator is cheaper to 
build, doesn't take very long in comparison to other generators. But 
now we produce 23 percent, and that number is growing every day, and it 
will really grow. Coal, 23 percent; nuclear, 8 percent; hydroelectric, 
2.7; biomass, 2.4; geothermal, .36; wind, .12; solar, .06.

Now, here is where our future lies, and the only one that is really 
growing is biomass. How is that growing? Well, we are using it to heat 
factories. Wood waste has now become a commodity. I'm from 
Pennsylvania, the hardwood capital of the world. We are now drying most 
of our wood with wood waste instead of using fuel oil or natural gas 
because it's cheaper. A million Americans will heat their homes this 
year with wood pellets. A lot of people don't know about a pellet 
stove, but a pellet stove is a new, modern, beautiful stove that you 
can heat your home and it's wood waste. That is a new consumer in the 
market. And also power plants that are burning coal will top them with 
wood waste so they can just slide under the air standards where the 
coal they are burning might just have a little too much emission in it. 
So they'll use 20, 30 percent wood waste, and they will be able to meet 
the EPA air quality standards. So woody biomass is the growing one. And 
now when we go into cellulosic ethanol, we are going to use wood waste 
again to make ethanol, cellulosic ethanol.

But let's say we really put our effort behind, and we are, solar. So 
let's say we double solar. Now, it is hard to double something in 10 
years. But let's say we double it in 5 years. So we would be at .12. 
And if we double it again in another 5 years, we would be at .24, if my 
math is still good. And we take wind and we do the same. We could do 
that for a number of years, a couple decades. We'd still be struggling 
to get a percent of our energy from wind and solar.



And yet people seem to think, and I don't know why, but they seem to 
think it's ready to take over, it's ready to be helpful. But it's not 
ready to replace that big wide band I had on oil, it's not ready to 
replace that big wide band on coal. Nothing is. And hydroelectric is 
decreasing because we're taking dams out and it's becoming a smaller 
percentage. And nuclear will decrease to 7 percent if we don't open the 
new plants because, as electric use goes up, if nuclear doesn't go up 
with it, it will become a smaller figure.

So when you look at this chart, now I'm going to switch gears on you 
for just a minute, what do we hear? Here's what we hear is coming now: 
this is, I believe, the ''no energy bill.'' It locks up 9 trillion 
cubic feet in the Roan Plateau. The Roan Plateau is a huge, clean 
natural gas field in Colorado that was set aside as a naval oil shale 
reserve in 1912 because of its rich energy resources. This means that 9 
trillion cubic feet of natural gas, more than all the natural gas in 
the OCS bill that was passed in Congress last year, that little piece 
in the gulf, will be put off limits. It has already been through NEPA, 
it's all ready to lease, it's ready to produce. Legislation that's 
coming before us is going to take it away. What makes sense about clean 
green natural gas?

Next, it locks up 18 percent of the Federal onshore production, 
America's natural gas. And that's because of policy changes and further 
NEPA studies, and making it more difficult to permit is going to slow 
down the production of both oil and gas production in America.

I was responsible for a small amendment, but a good amendment, in the 
energy bill in 2005. It took away redundant NEPA studies because NEPA 
studies take a year. I talked to people who had leased land and in 7 
years have not drilled yet because they were still doing NEPA studies 
because they had to do one for every piece of the process, not a NEPA 
study, and then produce it with a NEPA study to delay. Locks up 2 
trillion barrels of oil shale from the West oil shale.

Now, everybody talked about the tar sands as oil that we couldn't 
get. Canada has been persistent. They're now producing 1.5 million 
barrels a day. Much of that is coming into our States to be refined. In 
fact, they're trying to enlarge refineries in the northern tier, having 
a lot of problems. Lots of resistance about enlarging those refineries, 
but that's necessary to produce. But the tar sands are one of the 
fields that's growing in Canada that's available, and they tell me that 
shale oil has even greater reserves.

It's going to lock up 10 billion barrels in Alaska, the national 
petroleum reserve, breaches legitimate legal contracts that are out 
there that companies have signed to produce oil by trying to make them 
null and void with legislation.

And then the one that really is bad, $15 billion tax increase. I have 
two oil refineries in my district, one in Warren, Pennsylvania, 
American Refineries, and in Bradford, Pennsylvania the original Kendall 
refinery. They're going to pay, if this bill passes, a higher tax than 
any other business in Pennsylvania or in America. Does that make sense, 
that we're going to tax people who produce energy with a greater tax 
than those who produce steel or food or other products for a profit? I 
don't think it does. I know what it's about; it's about the hatred of 
oil companies. Well, Big Oil does not produce.

The other fact I want to share with you, 90 percent of the oil in the 
world today is not owned by an oil company. The 14th largest oil 
company in America today is Exxon. The other 13 are countries like 
Mexico, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Nigeria, Russia, all our 
good friends. Dictatorships, unstable governments, unfriendly 
governments, and they own about 90 percent of the oil.

And now what's worrisome, from what I'm told, is they're using this 
huge cash revenue for social purposes, and they're not putting the 
money back. So it could happen in the very near future that those 
countries could not produce enough oil to supply America. And that's 
why we have $95 oil, because we're not doing coal-to-liquid; we're not 
doing all the other things we ought to be doing. We're hoping that 
renewables can replace oil. I wish they could.

I think America, I think this Congress, I think this administration 
needs to take a very serious look at the economic viability of this 
country if we continue, if all we have coming at us is a bill that has, 
it shouldn't be no energy, it's less energy and more taxes.

I thank the gentleman for allowing me to share.