# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `c2a01934779fea1f53e0de88e64888d7`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, what do we set as an example? We lose our 
way on this question of torture. When America arranged to have a 
Canadian citizen, changing a plane in the United States on the way to 
Canada, sent to Syria to be tortured, what did we tell the rest of the 
world? I will tell you what we told the rest of the world: Here we have 
the outrageous conduct of President Musharraf's Government in Pakistan. 
He is closing down the courts, he is closing down the opposition, he is 
closing down the press. We have to meekly say: Please don't do that; we 
do send you billions of dollars in aid; please don't destroy democracy.

A Cabinet Minister in his Government was interviewed yesterday on a 
Canadian show. When he was asked if he was ashamed of the images the 
world was seeing of Pakistanis being clubbed by police in the streets, 
part of his reply was this: Are other countries--referring to the 
United States--ashamed of taking persons from another country to a 
third country and torturing them? Are they ashamed?

I would like to think as Americans we hold the high moral ground, but 
we can be lectured because we have not, by the likes of a member of the 
Cabinet of a despotic regime in Pakistan, and there is no answer to it. 
There is no answer to it because what he objects to us doing is sending 
a citizen of another country who was on our land to Syria to be 
tortured, and we have no answer to that because this administration and 
this Government did it.

I am proud to be an American. I am so happy my maternal grandparents 
immigrated to this country from Italy and gave me a chance to be an 
American, as did my great-grandparents from Ireland. I am proud of it. 
I am proud to see my children growing up as Americans, now my 
grandchildren, as I know the distinguished Presiding Officer whose 
family has been in this country much longer than mine is proud of his 
American heritage. But torture should not be what America stands for. 
Indeed, the better example is set by the Army Field Manual, which 
instructs our forces to consider how we would react if what a soldier 
is about to do to someone was done to an American soldier. How would 
our soldiers react if they found somebody waterboarding an American 
soldier? They would do everything to rescue them because it would be 
wrong and it would be illegal. It is not just illegal and wrong if 
somebody else does it, it is illegal and it is wrong if we do it.

Sadly, when I cited this very standard in a written question to Judge 
Mukasey and asked if it would be an abuse if another country 
waterboarded an American, he sidestepped the question, and he failed to 
condemn even waterboarding of Americans. When we found our State 
Department to begin to do the same, I saw a pattern.

In their recent letter to the nominee, Senators Warner, McCain, and 
Graham do not take that approach. They recognize, as I do and I hope 
all Senators do, that waterboarding, under any circumstances, 
represents a clear violation of U.S. law. That is what Senators Warner, 
McCain, and Graham said. As chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, 
I agree with them.

When the administration and others state that we cannot state whether 
America waterboards people because it would tip off our enemies, they 
have it precisely wrong. That is about as effective as Saddam Hussein 
hinting that he had weapons of mass destruction, even though he did 
not, as he tried to impress his enemies.

In refusing to say we do not waterboard prisoners, what do we do? We 
end up giving license to others. When the United States cannot state 
unequivocally that waterboarding is torture and illegal and will not be 
tolerated, what does that mean for other Governments? What comfort does 
that provide the world's most repressive regimes? How does it allow the 
United States, that hitherto has been a beacon for human rights, to 
criticize or lecture these repressive regimes that torture that way?

Some have sought to find comfort in Judge Mukasey's personal 
assurance that he would enforce a future, some kind of new law against 
waterboarding if Congress were to pass one. Even some in the press have 
used that talking point from the White House. Any such prohibition 
would have to be enacted over the veto of this President, a President 
who has not ruled out the use of waterboarding.

But the real damage in this argument is not its futility. The real 
harm is that it presupposes we don't already have laws and treaty 
obligations against waterboarding. As we know, when we enter a treaty, 
it becomes the law of the land. We have laws already against it. We 
don't need a new law. No Senator should, with any kind of clear 
conscience, abet this administration's legalistic obfuscations by 
those, such as Alberto Gonzales, who take these positions, or John Yoo 
and David Addington, by agreeing somehow that the laws we already have 
on the books do not already make waterboarding illegal. We have been 
properly prosecuting water torture for more than 100 years.

Vote for the nominee or vote against the nominee, but don't hide 
behind some kind of a cloak and say maybe we should have a law in the 
future. We have that law. This is as if, when somebody murders somebody 
with a baseball bat, they were to say: We had a law against murder, but 
we never mentioned baseball bats. Murder is murder; torture is torture. 
Our laws make both illegal, and our laws--but especially our values--do 
not permit this to be an open question or even one that depends on who 
is doing the waterboarding. We cannot say it is wrong when other 
countries do it but, of course, it is right when we do it because our 
heart is pure. That is a prescription for disaster. That is what 
heightens the risk to American citizens and soldiers around the world, 
and it gives repressive regimes comfort, and that is something I will 
not do.

I will not accept this fallacious argument. I will not accept this 
pretense that it is OK because we have not yet passed a law, when that 
has always been the law in the United States. It was in Theodore 
Roosevelt's day, it was when we prosecuted Japanese soldiers after 
World War II for waterboarding, and it is today.

It would be like saying we haven't a specific law for some of the 
things done in Abu Ghraib. Of course, we had not. We knew such actions 
violated every principle of our law. Are we going to say, however, it 
was all right because we didn't have spelled out in the law every 
single thought that could be raised about torture so we could 
specifically cite to that?

Mr. President, hasn't there been enough harm done to the United 
States by the images of Abu Ghraib? Hasn't there been enough harm done 
to the United States by this Government intentionally taking a Canadian 
citizen and sending that citizen to Syria to be tortured? Hasn't there 
been enough harm done to this country that we don't need to have 
Senators stand on the floor of the Senate and say: Well, maybe sometime 
in the future we should have a law against waterboarding, when our top 
military and everybody else all agree this is already against the law.

Now, I wish I could support Judge Mukasey's nomination because I like 
him. I like his legal abilities. I like his background as a prosecutor. 
He is a tough, no-nonsense prosecutor. But we are dealing with an 
administration that has been acting outside the law, an administration 
that has now created a confirmation contortion. Mr. President, I am not 
a moral contortionist, and I am not going to aid and abet the 
confirmation contortions of this administration. When many of us voted 
to confirm General Petraeus, the administration turned around and, for 
political advantage, tried to claim when we voted to confirm the 
general, we also voted for the President's war policies. Well, I did 
not vote for a war in Iraq. I voted against it. And I do not vote to 
allow torture. And just as I do not support this President's Iraq 
policy, I do not support his torture policy


or his views of unaccountability or unlimited Executive power.

No one is more eager to restore strong leadership and independence to 
the Department of Justice than I. For almost 3 years, it has been 
leaderless. For almost 3 years, it has engaged in every single effort 
not to follow the law, but to find ways around the law. That has 
created a terrible problem of morale among the very wonderful men and 
women, the talented men and women who work there.

We all know what we need most right now is an Attorney General who 
believes and understands there must be limitations on Executive power. 
Whether the Executive is a Republican or a Democratic President, there 
have to be limitations. America needs to be certain of the bedrock 
principles of our laws and our values and that no President, no 
American, can be authorized to violate them. In America, no one is 
above the law. The President of the United States is not above the law. 
He is not allowed to place anybody else above the law. That is what has 
maintained this democracy for over 200 years.

When we began considering this nomination, I observed that the 
Department of Justice has experienced an unprecedented crisis of 
leadership. It is a crisis that has come more and more into view as 
Senator Specter and I have led a bipartisan group of concerned Senators 
serving on our Judiciary Committee to consider a U.S. attorney firing 
scandal, a confrontation over the legality of the administration's 
warrantless wiretapping program, and the politicization of hiring at 
the Department of Justice. What we have seen is not just poor 
leadership, but the complete breakdown of the principles that have 
always embodied the Department of Justice and the position of Attorney 
General.

For me, the issue has never been personal to Alberto Gonzales. The 
Judiciary Committee's investigations into the Department's many 
scandals were not designed to force the resignation of Alberto 
Gonzales, but rather to restore the integrity and the mission of the 
Department of Justice. My goal was not to force his resignation but to 
restore the Department of Justice. That the administration had him 
remain more than 6 months after the U.S. attorney firing scandal was 
known continued the harm and forestalled the restoration of order.

It was not just the fact that he lost my confidence that forced him 
to leave. It was not the Senate passing a resolution of no confidence. 
Rather it was our bipartisan efforts in which Republicans and Democrats 
who care about Federal law enforcement and the Department of Justice 
joined together to press for accountability.

The issue during the Senate confirmation of Alberto Gonzales remains 
today. The Department of Justice has always set out to enforce the law 
and to ensure that no one, not even the President, is above the law. As 
we consider the nomination of Michael Mukasey, we must determine what 
kind of Attorney General he would be and whether he will stand for the 
rule of law against the demands of this White House.

I began my consideration of this nomination as I did with the last 
Attorney General nomination, hoping to be able to support the nominee. 
After the hearing for the last nominee in 2005, I decided that I could 
not vote for the confirmation of Alberto Gonzales. I did so noting, as 
Justice James Iredell had in 1792, that the person who serves as 
Attorney General ''is not called Attorney General of the President, but 
Attorney General of the United States.'' This is a different kind of 
Cabinet position, distinct from all the others, and it requires greater 
independence. The departing Attorney General never understood this. 
Instead, he saw his role as a facilitator for this White House's 
overreaching policies and partisan politics.

The crisis of leadership that led to the resignation of the entire 
senior leadership of the Department and their staffs, as well as Karl 
Rove and his two top aides at the White House, has taken a heavy toll 
on the tradition of independence that had long guided the Department of 
Justice and protected it from political influence. As a former 
prosecutor I know that the dismay runs deep, from the career attorneys 
at Justice and in our U.S. attorney offices, straight down to the cops 
on the beat.

The Senate should only confirm a nominee who will bring a commitment 
to the rule of law and American liberties and values back to the 
Justice Department. As I have reviewed Judge Mukasey's nomination, I 
have found much to like. He has impressive credentials, vast experience 
as a lawyer and a judge, and a refreshingly straightforward manner. I 
liked him when I met him, and I am convinced that he is a man of 
integrity and would not be governed merely by personal or political 
loyalty.

At his hearing, he answered firmly that he would not tolerate 
political meddling in investigations or litigation and would end hiring 
based on politics, and he was clear in asserting that he would resign 
if the President insisted on going forward with a course of action he 
had found to be illegal. These were encouraging signs.

But I am concerned that he shares with this administration a view of 
virtually unbridled executive power and authority. In these uncertain 
times, it may be tempting simply to defer the Commander in Chief, but I 
believe that in difficult times, it is more important than ever to 
insist on the rule of law and the principles that have made our country 
unique in the world for more than 200 years. Even Judge Mukasey's 
strong promise to resign if the President insists on an illegal course 
of action loses its power if he believes the President to be largely 
unconstrained by law. If nothing the President can do would be illegal, 
there would never be an occasion for him to make such a principled 
stand.

That is why I was so disappointed by Judge Mukasey's answers 
suggesting that he sees little occasion to check the President's power. 
I was disturbed by his insistence that, with regard to warrantless 
wiretapping and the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, the 
President has inherent authority outside of the statute and could 
authorize and immunize conduct contrary to the law. I fail to see a 
valid distinction justifying his assertion that the President could 
have the power of an executive override in the surveillance context, 
but not in the torture context, and I worry about where his reasoning 
could lead us.

I was disappointed in his abandoning his initial answer to parrot the 
White House's conclusion that a U.S. attorney could not bring a 
congressional contempt citation to a grand jury. That is the mechanism 
in the law that allows an independent court the opportunity to referee 
any claim of executive privilege that the executive and legislative 
branches could not resolve amongst themselves. He, instead, insisted 
that the solution in such a situation was an ''accommodation'' of the 
kind that this administration has been consistently unwilling to make. 
Once again, his position leads me to worry that he would allow this 
President's unprecedented assertions of power to go completely 
unchecked.

I was saddened to hear Judge Mukasey say that he apparently would not 
support habeas corpus rights for detainees, rejecting a core legal 
right and a basic American value which Senator Specter and I have 
fought so hard to restore. I was disappointed to see him echo in 
response to my questions the same administration policy on 
extraordinary rendition that has led to several disgraceful episodes 
for this Nation and fail to commit even to review the case of Maher 
Arar, a prominent and disturbing episode of rendition.

Which brings me back to the issue that came to dominate the 
consideration of this nomination, the issue of torture. The United 
States does not torture. The United States does not inflict cruel, 
inhuman, and degrading treatment. This is part of the moral fiber of 
our country and our historical place as a world leader on human rights, 
and it has long been fixed in our laws, our Constitution, and our 
values.

That is why I was so saddened when Judge Mukasey, given repeated 
opportunities, refused to say that the ancient and extreme technique of 
waterboarding, a brutal practice in which a person is subjected to 
simulated drowning, is illegal. There may be interrogation techniques 
that require close examination and extensive briefings. Waterboarding 
is not among them. Judge Mukasey does not need a


classified briefing to learn about waterboarding. He could go to the 
library to read about waterboarding that was done as far back as the 
Spanish Inquisition, or about American prosecutions of Japanese war 
criminals for waterboarding after World War II. Evan Wallach, a judge 
at the U.S. Court of International Trade, a professor who teaches the 
law of war, and a former JAG officer, wrote an insightful column in 
last Sunday's Washington Post that I ask unanimous consent be printed 
in the Record.