# TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST  HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008--
## `c2adece06f57efdeecc6ad7271d220ac`
`Mr. REID â€” 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, the Republicans have been talking now for 
several weeks about needing to do something about oil. But you see, we 
on this side of the aisle have been talking about doing something about 
it for a long time--a long time. That is why we brought the global 
warming bill to the floor. That is why we pushed very hard to have the 
renewable energy tax credits put in place so the American entrepreneur 
can invest in solar, wind, and geothermal, creating hundreds of 
thousands of jobs. We have been stopped doing anything about global 
warming, we have been stopped doing anything, of course, about 
renewable energy, which would take tremendous pressure off the oil 
markets.

We have worked on doing other things. We introduced legislation 
dealing specifically with gas prices, and we were turned back from 
doing that. We could not get 60 votes.

The causes of high gas prices we all know are complicated: We have 
stability problems in Iraq and in Iran, the Middle East; we have 
problems in Nigeria now, which is the fifth largest producer of oil in 
the world; the weak dollar is creating more problems; some say the 
global demand is outpacing supply with India and China coming online to 
buy a lot of this oil; and the failure of the oil companies to use 
their record profits to invest in new refining capacity and research 
alternatives.

Speculation in oil, is that the problem? Of course not. But it is a 
problem. It is a big problem, and I think there is a lot of agreement 
to that effect. Economists agree that probably up to 30 percent or more 
of the price we pay at the pump is due to speculation.

I had a conversation this morning with the head of United Airlines. 
This man comes with a pretty good resume. I did not meet him until a 
few months ago when he and a number of people from the airline 
industry--all the bosses--came to see me lamenting the fact that these 
companies were in desperate need of help. They explained to me there 
were airplanes that were filled to capacity every trip they took in 
America, but they were going to cancel those flights. Why? Because the 
airplanes they are using use a lot of gas. The flights they took used a 
lot of kerosene, is basically what they burn. Therefore, they were 
going to terminate the flights and use airplanes that did not use as 
much gas because they lose less money. They lose basically money on 
every flight they take and that we take as consumers.

I met him then the first time. I have had other conversations with 
him. He is one of the experts we had in a meeting last Thursday to talk 
about speculation. Today I talked with him because we introduced 
legislation to deal with speculation to get the energy debate started.

The Republicans, in the bill they have introduced, have a provision 
about speculation. So they should join with us in allowing us to get 
this bill to the floor.

Mr. Tilton said to me today he appreciated our working to get this 
bill done. We have taken parts from Democratic bills and Republican 
bills to be at a place where we are now. Mr. Tilton said this is 
extremely important for the industry, to recognize that we in Congress 
are trying to do something to tamp down speculation.

President Bush said yesterday there is no immediate fix, that it took 
a while to get to this problem; there is no short-term solution. That 
is true. When President Bush took office, a gallon of gasoline cost 
$1.46. Today the average price is $4.11 or $4.12 a gallon. When 
President Bush took office, a barrel of oil cost $32. Today, with the


volatility involved, it has been up near $150 and has dropped down to 
$140, but it is very high, certainly more than $32 a barrel.

The President is correct that his administration's energy policy has 
created a crisis that the American people will suffer long past his 
Presidency. It is true we need long-term solutions, including a serious 
commitment to providing tax cuts, as I already talked about, to 
companies and innovators who are investing in clean alternative fuels 
that could take us off our addiction to oil--and that is what it is. 
President Bush identified that in one of his first State of the Union 
Messages, but he has not done anything about that.

The American people deserve solutions that will ease the pain at the 
pump and also make the future look better for them. One of those 
solutions is this bill that has been introduced, the Energy Speculation 
Act of 2008. We have done that together. We reach out and ask the 
Republicans to join with us in a bipartisan effort to tamp down 
speculation. Right now Wall Street traders are raising gas prices with 
nothing more than a click of a mouse.

In the nearly 8 years of this Bush-Cheney administration, the most 
oil-friendly administration in the history of the country--both made 
their fortunes in oil--they have turned a blind eye to this excessive 
speculation. Our legislation will finally hold the energy futures 
market to the same standards of accountability that other futures 
markets are held.

Sadly, for American consumers, the Federal watchdog that is working 
to do this has been understaffed over the last many years. Part of our 
legislation gives them more staff, to give them more power to do 
things. They were tremendously underfunded as a result of the work of 
Phil Gramm, one of John McCain's chief economic advisers. The 2000 
Commodities Futures Modernization Act, which, in effect, allowed 
traders to buy and sell oil without actually taking physical delivery 
of it.

We are not saying in our legislation they have to take physical 
delivery of it. But we know where the problem started. The so-called 
mouse-click energy market was born as a result of John McCain's chief 
economic adviser, who, by the way, thinks people who are complaining 
about high gas prices and the housing crisis are a bunch of whiners. 
Those are his words.

We talked with one of the most fair, seasoned legislators in 
Congress, Carl Levin, a Senator from Michigan, to get more information 
on large traders of energy quantities in over-the-counter markets. That 
is in our legislation--something he came up with.


So we feel we are headed in the right direction. We have gotten help 
from the CFTC, the man who runs that, we have gotten help from the 
chairman of the Energy Committee, Senator Bingaman, and we are doing 
our best to address an issue we feel is very important to the American 
people.