# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `c2fb1c9ac88686568aac156fa580da10`
`Mr. HUNTER â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, we have, I believe, no more speakers left, 
so at this time let me just say that our ranking members and our 
chairmen have covered the waterfront of what this bill does. They've 
taken it from personnel, the pay raise that the chairman started off 
talking about, the 3.9 percent pay raise, the end strength increases in 
the Army and Marine Corps, the quality of life increases that we've 
delivered to our people in uniform, to the equipment side, to the force 
protection that we are sending additional to Afghanistan and to Iraq, 
MRAPs, extra armor capability, extra technical capability to be able to 
defend our forces and help them accomplish the mission, to the 
modernization side, the platforms that we are building with the 
modernization part of this budget, to the readiness part of this 
budget, which is so critical to ongoing operations, and to some of the 
technical aspects of the budget that I think the Strategic Subcommittee 
spoke to so effectively, including the programs that involve space, 
involve missile defense. And so, Mr. Chairman, I think we've described 
the bill fairly effectively.

And I think also we've described the people. At least I want to make 
sure we understand how wonderful the people are who put this bill 
together, not only the ranking members and the chairmen of the 
subcommittee and our great chairman of the full committee, Ike Skelton, 
the man from Missouri, but also the wonderful staff that we have that's 
worked long hours to put together what is a very large bill, in many 
cases, very technical, and yet they did it with great precision, and we 
owe them a debt of gratitude.

Let me just say in my closing seconds here, Mr. Chairman, that I 
talked about the horizon that I think we face in terms of military 
challenges. I think that part of that horizon must require a focus on 
China. The fact that China is now outbuilding the U.S. in submarines by 
more than 3-1, with their acquisitions from the Russians, it's much 
more. They're acquiring great technical capability, and they are 
building an industrial base that, in many areas, such as building 
warships, could outstrip the United States very quickly in production.

And just as our great chairman mentioned, that it takes more than 
just a military to win wars and to carry out foreign policy, it's going 
to take some changes in policy to maintain the United States as a 
premier military force in the world. Some of those changes are going to 
require changes in our tax law, in our tariff law that will allow our 
industrial base to stay in the United States, that will stop these 
companies that are key to national security who are being advised right 
now by their financial advisors to move their production offshore, 
changes in our law that will cause them to stay in the United States, 
because the environment, the business environment in the United States 
and the tax environment will be such that they will not be induced to 
move offshore.

Also, with respect to the hemorrhage of technical information which 
is going on with the acquisition of American companies on a very 
selected basis by companies and by nations that are targeting American 
military technology. This committee has moved toward stopping that 
hemorrhage by adopting several important provisions with respect to 
security, site security at companies that do classified information. 
But there's much more work to be done there, and I know that the 
committee is moving in that direction and undertaking a great strides 
in that direction. But that's a direction that's going to require the 
participation of the entire body, Mr. Chairman, in fact, the entire 
government. So we have a big challenge ahead of us.

Again, I want to thank the chairman for putting together a bill that 
passed unanimously out of the Armed Services Committee, and should pass 
unanimously off the House floor. So once again, a job well done to the 
gentleman from Missouri.

I would yield back the balance of my time.