# OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `c3918e713d145c7d23dd37836abdc4f9`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 23 July 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H.R. 2798, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Act of 2007. 
I would like to thank my colleague Mr. Sherman for introducing this 
important bipartisan legislation.

The Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) has led by example 
in improving the social and economic conditions in some of the world's 
poorest countries. Today's bill not only reauthorizes OPIC but it 
improves upon both its strategy and oversight to make it the most 
responsible investor it can be.

OPIC has, since its inception in 1971, applied a private-sector model 
to a number of


important public-sector goals. By supporting targeted investments in a 
number of the world's poorest countries, OPIC extends the benefits of 
American projects to areas where a high level of risk might preclude 
investment by private companies. In this way, OPIC fills an important 
void left by the private financial sector. OPIC is essential and vital 
to the development of many countries, providing political risk 
insurance against the risks of inconvertibility, political violence, 
and expropriation allowing business to invest overseas and promote 
economic development in new and emerging markets.

For the past 35 years, OPIC has funded and insured the type of 
infrastructure building that no private company would do in some of the 
countries in which no company would otherwise go. OPIC has paved the 
way for roads, bridges, buildings, and energy facilities in war-torn 
and impoverished developing nations, and has accomplished all this 
while turning a profit and building billions in reserves.


Remarkably, OPIC has itself turned a profit in every single year of 
its operations. It currently has reserves of over $5.3 billion, despite 
working in many of the world's least developed nations.

OPIC's sophisticated system involves reviewing applications and 
funding projects in countries where companies are least likely to get 
insurance coverage for the risk they are taking. In addition OPIC also 
provides financing through direct loans and loan guaranties.

With H.R. 2798, OPIC will become a new and improved agency. We live 
in a world that requires all of us to work together to fight terrorism, 
hunger and poverty, and for fundamental freedom and rights of every 
individual. This bill will allow OPIC to work in countries and with 
companies that provide greater protection for international workers 
rights.

This legislation has a number of vital safeguards, preventing funds 
from being used for destructive purposes. It strictly prevents funding 
for any project that damages the environment, and it ensures that it is 
not funding projects in nations with the most dangerous regimes in the 
world, including Iran. This bill prohibits investment in any state 
sponsor of terrorism, and charges OPIC with researching the 
subsidiaries of every company it funds to enforce that prohibition. 
Under the provisions of this bill, OPIC will be as transparent as 
possible.

I was happy to work with Congressman Sherman to include language in 
the Committee Report to ensure that Iraq is not given a blank check. 
Given the violent and chaotic situation in Iraq, and due to 
difficulties in dealing with an unstable Iraqi government, it is 
necessary to waive certain requirements normally mandatory for OPIC 
involvement in a country. While I believe that OPIC investment has the 
potential to be extremely valuable and beneficial for Iraqi 
reconstruction, I also believe it to be necessary for Iraq to 
demonstrate that it is making definitive and substantial steps toward 
the benchmarks set by the United States, including achieving political 
and national reconciliation.

For 35 years, OPIC has funded and insured infrastructure-building 
activities that would not otherwise be undertaken by the private 
sector. This legislation ensures that OPIC can continue its valuable 
work, building on its legacy of constructive involvement and further 
refining its strategies and oversight. I believe that OPIC deserves our 
support, and I strongly support this legislation.