# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `c41a805c05dd539cb080164286033c1b`
`Mr. ENGEL â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. ENGEL. I thank the gentleman, my distinguished friend, the 
chairman, for yielding time to me.



Mr. Speaker, it's time to get our troops out of the middle of an 
Iraqi civil war. It's time to start bringing our troops home.

My friends on the other side of the aisle are essentially saying 
''stay the course.'' At what point, I would ask my friends, do we say 
that the administration's policies in Iraq have failed and it is time 
to change course? I think that time is now.

Even the Bush administration's interim assessment of whether the 
Iraqis are meeting basic benchmarks shows that they have failed to 
achieve any level of political and economic success. Here we are in the 
fifth year of the war, longer than World War II, more than half a 
trillion dollars and 3,600 American lives lost, and Iraqi politicians 
seem further apart than ever. Indeed, the evidence that our soldiers 
are involved in an Iraqi civil war is mounting and a solution seems 
even further from our grasp.

Young American service personnel cannot solve the problem of Iraq, 
because, ultimately, Iraq is not a military problem anymore; it is a 
political crisis. And if the Iraqis cannot solve their political 
problems, we cannot do it for them. Only Iraqi politicians can bring 
about a solution, and our military personnel should not be dying to 
hold together the collapsed Iraqi state.

Mr. Speaker, this war has turned into a great strategic fiasco, from 
the lack of planning to insufficient number of troops, to incompetent 
management of reconstruction projects, to the use of torture in 
military prisons. Our blunder in Iraq will affect our ability to 
succeed in the Middle East and elsewhere for years to come.

Therefore, I strongly support this bill, which requires that we begin 
redeploying American troops home within 120 days of enactment and 
ending by April 1, 2008.