# RECOGNIZING THE STRONG ALLIANCE BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE  UNITED STATES
## `c4228b7e4dcae65984e471542e3f995c`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA â€” 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume, and I rise in strong support of the resolution.

Mr. Speaker, let me first commend our distinguished colleague and 
former member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, my good friend and 
colleague, the gentleman from New York (Mr. King), for being the author 
of and introducing this important resolution.

Mr. Speaker, the strong alliance between the United States and the 
Republic of Korea has been a pivotal relationship in world affairs 
since our involvement when we fought side by side in the Korean war 
over half a century ago. Out of that conflict was born one of the most 
significant dividing lines of the Cold War, a demilitarized zone on the 
38th parallel that splits the Korean Peninsula and marked the divide 
between Communist Asia and democratic Asia. The partnership between our 
two countries held this line for decades. Today we help maintain a 
stable peace in Southeast Asia.

In the post-Cold War period, the Republic of Korea has remained a 
steadfast U.S. ally. It has contributed troops and pledged 
reconstruction funds for Iraq, and its forces are deployed in 
Afghanistan. As a key member of the six-party talks to denuclearize 
North Korea, it shares an important responsibility for broader security 
in Northeast Asia. Today we are committed absolutely to compelling the 
dangerous North Korea regime to eliminate its nuclear program.

Overall, South Korea is a key partner and an ally in the challenge of 
combating world terrorism. The combination of emerging terrorism 
threats and the North Korean challenge makes this resolution 
particularly important today.

I certainly want to commend my good friend, Assistant Secretary 
Christopher Hill of the State Department, for his diligence and efforts 
in negotiating with the North Koreans in the six-party talks. I would 
be remiss if I did not also recognize a most significant contribution 
made by the Republic of China and the help that they have contributed 
in bringing the North Koreans to the negotiating table and for which 
the negotiations are now ongoing, hopefully to bring about a resolution 
to this important problem.

In economic realms, Mr. Speaker, the U.S. relationship with the 
Republic of Korea is one of our strongest in Asia. The Republic of 
Korea was one of the original East Asian Tigers and served as a model 
for other countries in Asia with its booming economic growth in the 
seventies, eighties and nineties. South Korea now is the United States' 
seventh largest trading partner in the world.

This resolution honors the close alliance between the United States 
and the Republic of Korea and recognizes South Korea's important 
contributions to fighting not only terrorism around the world, but also 
welcomes a strengthening and deepening of the relationship between our 
two countries and our peoples.

Mr. Speaker, when I was in Vietnam, I remember vividly the presence 
of some 50,000 soldiers from South Korea who served alongside us, the 
U.S. forces. I kind of like to say now you know where your real friends 
are.

I am reminded of a Chinese proverb: there are many acquaintances, but 
very few friends. South Korea was one of those few friends who was 
willing to put their action where their talk is; and the fact that 
50,000 soldiers were there fighting along U.S. forces and in that 
terrible conflict that we faced in Vietnam, I cannot help but express 
my personal commendation and appreciation to the leaders and to the 
people of South Korea when they were there with us when we needed help.

I visited South Korea several times and I consider them the most 
industrious people on this planet. There are over 1 million Korean 
Americans living in our country today, some among the most prominent in 
the areas of science and doctors. They have become lawyers, engineers 
and are in all types of businesses. I have a very strong affection for 
the Korean people and those fellow citizens who happen to be of Korean 
ancestry.

So I think this resolution is most fitting. Again, I commend my good 
friend, the gentleman from New York, for offering and proposing this 
resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.