# DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `c449fbdd6e80841ec7c6309e361e0198`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 21 September 2009`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, eight years ago America was attacked at 
home by an enemy that we had underestimated for too long. As a result 
of this single planned attack, thousands of innocent people were 
killed, the Twin Towers were left in ruins, and our long-held 
confidence as a Nation in the security of our homeland was seriously 
shaken.

The horror of that day brought our country together, including 
lawmakers of every ideological stripe. And it was in this context of 
unity that we resolved to do everything in our power to ensure that 
America never experienced a day like September 11 again.

At the heart of that resolve was a recognition that al-Qaida and 
affiliated terrorist groups had been at war with the United States long 
before September 11, 2001. September 11 may have been the day that we 
saw the terrible consequences of inaction, but the pattern of smaller-
scale attacks leading up to that day was also suddenly, undeniably 
clear. On 9/11, we saw that this was a war not of choice but a war of 
necessity that would take time and require great sacrifice, and that 
war continues.

From the very start, the centerpiece of our strategy has been the 
same: to deny al-Qaida and its affiliates sanctuary, and, crucially, to 
deny them a staging ground from which they can plan, prepare, or launch 
another attack on U.S. soil. We have carried out this strategy using 
the vast tools of intelligence, diplomacy, and force at our disposal, 
and our future success depends on our continued use of all these tools.

We have also recognized from the first moments of this fight that we 
can't succeed alone. America is not al-Qaida's only target, and we are 
not capable of defeating al-Qaida without the cooperation of many 
allies and friends, many of whom have experienced terrorism firsthand. 
The fight against al-Qaida is a global fight, and its success will 
continue to depend on a division of labor among many nations.

Nowhere is our reliance on partners and allies more apparent at the 
moment than in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Just as progress in Iraq 
depended on the training of an indigenous security force, so too does 
our progress in Afghanistan depend on the training of security forces 
there; and so too does our success in Pakistan depend upon the ability 
of the Pakistani Army to fight terrorists in the tribal areas.

Still, while Afghanistan and Pakistan may now be at the center of the 
fight, it's important to realize that our success will mean continued 
reliance on the cooperation of other friends and allies across the 
globe, from our own borders to other distant places where our forces 
can not go or where our presence is of limited use.

This is why I and others have pointed out that our success in 
preventing inmates from Guantanamo from returning to the fight depends 
on cooperation from political leaders in places like Yemen and Saudi 
Arabia. And this is why many of us have pointed out that al-Qaida's 
presence is growing in Yemen and threatens Saudi Arabia, where al-Qaida 
claimed credit just last month for the first terrorist attack on a 
member of the Saudi royal family in recent memory.

Many countries are engaged in the same fight that we are. As the war 
on terror continues, these countries need to be assured of our 
cooperation just as much as we need to be assured of theirs.

So far on Afghanistan, the President has shown admirable consistency. 
He has not lost sight of the need to pressure al-Qaida's senior 
leadership; he has stated, rightly, in my view, that the core goal of 
the war there is the disruption, dismantling, and defeat of al-Qaida 
and the prevention of safe havens for terrorists. And he was wise 
earlier this year to appoint General Stanley McChrystal to command our 
forces in Afghanistan in pursuit of these goals.

By now, General McChrystal has had time to develop an initial 
assessment of the situation. That assessment, elements of which are now 
public, calls for a genuine counterinsurgency. Soon, he will make a 
formal request for the resources he needs to carry this strategy out. 
We don't know all the details yet, but we do know that much more hard 
work lies ahead. And we also know that, according to General 
McChrystal, ''failure to provide adequate resources . . . risks a 
longer conflict, greater casualties, higher overall costs, and 
ultimately, a critical loss of political support . . . [and that] any 
of these risks, in turn, are likely to result in mission failure.''

Looking back, we can see that the work of fighting terrorism at home 
and abroad has been difficult, it has been long, and it has tested our 
resolve. But here is the good news: It has been a success. By searching 
out terrorists where they are, keeping up the pressure, and remaining 
flexible, our Armed Forces, intelligence professionals, and the help of 
our allies and


friends has achieved something few people thought possible on September 
11, 2001. America has not been attacked at home since.

But this much is also clear: al-Qaida remains intent on attacking the 
United States. Its terror network is lethal, resilient, determined, and 
mobile, and the day we lose sight of this is the day that our good 
fortune in preventing another attack may run out.

The President, to his credit, has not lost sight of this sobering 
reality. But any failure to act decisively in response to General 
McChrystal's request could serve to undermine the other good decisions 
the President has made.

General McChrystal has made clear that more forces are necessary. But 
even that won't be enough. Even with the best strategy and the finest 
implementation, our efforts in Afghanistan will not succeed without the 
support of the American people. This is why, in my view, the President 
must soon explain to the American people his reasons either for 
accepting the McChrystal Plan or, if he chooses an alternative, explain 
why he believes the alternative is better.

As the President has noted, any commitment of additional forces is a 
decision of the gravest importance. No President takes a decision like 
this lightly. And this is why General McChrystal and General Petraeus 
should also come to Washington to explain to Congress and to the 
American people how their strategy will work.

Despite our best efforts to defeat al-Qaida and deny them sanctuary 
in Afghanistan and Pakistan, they remain a serious threat. The Taliban 
is gaining ground. But if our recent experience with Iraq shows us 
anything, it is that our commanders in the field are in the best 
position to tell us what will work. General McCyrstal says that without 
adequate resources, we will fail. In my view, we should listen to that 
advice.

Leading up to and during the surge in Iraq, many voices in Washington 
had given up hope of success. One prominent Senator said that a surge 
of American forces would do nothing. One of the Nation's top newspapers 
said that staying the course in Iraq would only make the situation more 
bloody and frightening, and that there was nothing ahead for Iraq but 
even greater disaster.

But we know what happened. By listening to our commanders in the 
field, the tide in Iraq began to turn. We salvaged our chances. And 
nearly 3 years later, a country and a war that many had given up for 
lost is showing strong signs of stability.

At the time, America was fortunate that in its moment of need, GEN 
David Petraeus came forward with a plan to secure Iraq and implemented 
it with the help of brave soldiers and marines in Baghdad and Anbar 
Province. General McChrystal has now sent his recommendation for a 
counterinsurgency strategy to protect the population and defeat the 
Taliban in Afghanistan. Congress should support it.

The war ahead in Afghanistan would not be easy. Counterinsurgency is 
very demanding in terms of people, resources and vigilance. But the 
consequences of withdrawal, or even of a plan that is more narrowly 
focused on developing Afghan security forces, would likely be worse, 
since neither plan will lead to the defeat of al-Qaida or reverse the 
gains that the Taliban has made in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

By ceding Afghanistan to the Taliban and al-Qaida, we would all but 
ensure that the terrorists have the ability to plan and carry out 
another attack from the very same place that they plotted and carried 
out the attacks of 9/11; al-Qaida in Pakistan would serve as a magnet 
to every young man wishing to enter the jihad; and our ability to stop 
either of these frightening developments would be severely diminished.

The President has said he will not allow these things to happen: For 
the sake of our long-term security, we should support the McChrystal 
Plan. Anything less would confirm al-Qaida's view that America lacks 
the strength and the resolve to endure a long war. We have proved them 
wrong before. Let's prove them wrong again.

I yield the floor.