# None
## `c48b42eb9ac35cc92944dfa59afd4f37`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA â€” 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
proposed resolution and yield myself such time as I may consume.

Again my appreciation and gratitude to the leadership of the House 
Foreign Affairs Committee, the distinguished chairman from California 
(Mr. Lantos) and my good friend, the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Ros-
Lehtinen), the senior ranking member of the committee, for their 
support and leadership in bringing this proposed legislation before the 
floor. I also would like to thank the chief sponsor of this proposed 
bill, my good friend from the State of Washington (Mr. Baird), for 
introducing this thoughtful and timely measure commending the Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan on its commitment to holding elections and to 
broadening its sphere of political participation in its country.

The Kingdom of Jordan is an oasis of stability in the Middle Eastern 
desert full of difficulties and crises. Jordan is beset by most of the 
same threats that confront the whole Middle Eastern region, such as 
terrorism and extremism, but it also faces some distinct challenges. 
For example, a flood of Iraqi asylum-seekers numbering nearly 1 
million. These refugees are now straining the infrastructure of a 
resource-poor nation of only 6 million citizens.

Despite these difficult challenges, and unlike other regional states 
that use Islamic extremism as an excuse to restrict democratic 
freedoms, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan has courageously taken 
significant steps to broaden political participation. At the same time, 
it continues to hold the line against terrorism. This balance is 
exemplary.

Madam Speaker, Jordan has long been a leader in the Arab world in 
enhancing women's political involvement, and it is continuing along 
that path. Thanks to recent reform, 20 percent of the municipal council 
seats determined in Jordan's July elections were reserved for women. 
Jordan also lowered its voting age to 18 in order to involve more 
people in the election process.

As you know, Madam Speaker, there was some controversy surrounding 
these recent municipal elections. The Islamists withdrew their 
candidates 1 day before the vote, claiming that the system was unfairly 
stacked against them. However, based on the evidence I have been able 
to gather from the State Department and from other staffers who visited 
Jordan shortly after the elections, these elections were largely free 
and fair, marred only by minor irregularities that almost certainly had 
little or no impact on the final result. It now appears the Islamists 
were more concerned about an embarrassing, imminent defeat than they 
were about democratic procedures.

Last month, after the municipal elections, King Abdullah II announced 
that parliamentary elections will be held on November 20. Thus, Jordan 
continues to pursue its path toward greater democracy.

It is indeed impressive that Jordan keeps extremism at bay while 
expanding political participation. But it is no coincidence. By 
addressing reform, Jordan has encouraged moderation. That is a lesson 
that, unfortunately, too many Middle Eastern regimes have failed to 
understand.

We encourage Jordan in its efforts to implement political reform, and 
we look forward to the kingdom's further progress towards achieving the 
comprehensive and ambitious set of goals it put forth last year as part 
of Jordan's National Agenda.

Madam Speaker, King Abdullah's thoughtful and bold leadership has 
made him a welcome ally in difficult times in the Middle East, and the 
American and Jordanian peoples share a special friendship that this 
bill explicitly reaffirms.

I know that the Foreign Affairs Committee, of which I am a member, 
and its distinguished chairman, the gentleman from California (Mr. 
Lantos), remain committed to this special relationship with the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. I trust that my friends in the full House 
do as well.

Madam Speaker, I strongly support this resolution, and I urge my 
colleagues to do the same.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.