# SCHIP VETO
## `c55c50e57881aba2b45fc19d14ae1f20`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE â€” 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, as I have traveled around Rhode 
Island, I have met so many families who worry about health care. Will 
their child fall ill? Will the price of prescription drugs or a visit 
to the doctor go up again?

As health care costs skyrocket and the number of uninsured Americans 
approaches a staggering 50 million, we have a solemn obligation to make 
health care more accessible and affordable.

This obligation is not new. For decades, our Government has treated 
it as one of the most sacred promises we keep with the American people, 
and it has been one of our best opportunities to just plain do the 
right thing. Initiatives such as Medicare and Medicaid are among our 
greatest accomplishments. The Children's Health Insurance Program is a 
shining light in the American health care system, providing health 
coverage to millions of American children whose families could not 
otherwise afford insurance.

Since its creation in 1997, the Children's Health Insurance Program 
has given children in America's working families better access to 
medical care for common conditions such as asthma or ear infections, 
better school attendance rates, better academic achievement, better 
medical access, and more preventive care. It means that children stay 
out of expensive urgent care settings such as the emergency room. The 
Children's Health Insurance Program is among the singular health care 
success stories of our generation. That is why it has long enjoyed 
bipartisan support, including enthusiastic support from Republican 
Governors.

My State of Rhode Island has played a vital role in creating and 
sustaining the Children's Health Insurance Program. The distinguished 
Republican Senator John Chafee, whom so many of my colleagues will 
remember, was one of the early bipartisan architects of this bill. For 
years, my senior Senator, Jack Reed, has been one of the most powerful 
advocates for this program in the Senate. I am proud to add my voice of 
support to his.

I am proud also to represent a State with one of the lowest rates of 
uninsured children and adults in the Nation. Rhode Island has worked 
for 15 years to achieve this success, beginning with Gov. Bruce 
Sundlun's establishment of the original RIteCare Program in 1993. I was 
honored to have been part of Governor Sundlun's team.

Similar to many State programs, RIteCare relies on this funding that 
the President vetoed--relies on it to help families pay for regular 
checkups, immunizations, prescriptions, nutrition and other services 
and to reduce the number of uninsured children in our State.

This year, leaders on both sides of the aisle came together in the 
Senate to make this strong, vital program even stronger. The $35 
billion agreement Congress passed last week would have brought health 
care to 10 million American children over the next 5 years, including 
adding up to 6,600 currently uninsured children in Rhode Island. We 
improved the program in other ways as well, adding quality dental and 
mental health care for children and new incentives for States to enroll 
more eligible children and to improve the quality of care.

But President Bush took all that away with the stroke of his veto 
pen. Why? Health insurance, he says, should be delivered in the private 
market. Well, guess what, Mr. President. The majority of children's 
health beneficiaries receive their coverage through private health 
plans. In fact, in 2005, all but two separate State children's health 
programs used a managed care company to provide CHIP benefits. The 
children's health plan does not threaten privatized health care; it is 
privatized health care for almost two-thirds of its enrollees. In Rhode 
Island, the Children's Health Insurance Program is delivered entirely 
through private insurers. As I have displayed here, the children's 
health program looks a lot like the health insurance the President has 
and the Senate has, and it doesn't look anything like the socialized 
medicine Republican opponents of this program have used as a red 
herring.

By the way, as a footnote on the public versus private health 
insurance question, maybe President Bush, who claims to be a fiscal 
conservative, would be pleased to learn that the small group of 
children's health beneficiaries who actually are in public insurance 
programs, cost the Government less than those who are on private 
insurance. In fact, publicly insured children cost taxpayers 10 percent 
less than privately insured children, and publicly insured adults cost 
30 percent less than privately insured adults.

But the President is not persuaded by these facts. It does not matter 
to him that publicly insured children have a much better chance of 
having a well child care visit than uninsured children and a much 
better chance of having a dental care visit. It does not matter that 
practical Republican Governors across the country support this bill or 
that it is one of the most bipartisan achievements of this Congress. 
All that seems to matter to this President is ideology, and in this 
case, it is a bizarre ideology that doesn't think struggling, working-
class families should have health care. In fact, he especially doesn't 
believe that struggling, working-class parents should have health care. 
He threatened to veto this bill based on that feature alone.

As recently as last summer at a Finance Committee hearing, his own 
CMS Administrator, Mark McClellan, stated--and this is a quote from the 
Bush administration:




 Extending coverage to parents and caretaker relatives--


Parents and caretaker relatives--



 not only serves to cover additional insured individuals, but 


 may also increase the likelihood that they will take the 


 steps necessary to enroll their children. Extending coverage 


 to parents and caretakers may also increase the likelihood 


 that their children remain enrolled in CHIP.


Here is a copy of a letter that Administrator McClellan wrote to my 
home State of Rhode Island on January 13, 2006. It reads:




 We are pleased to inform you that your amendment to the 


 RiteCare section 1115 demonstration, as modified by the 


 special terms and conditions accompanying this award, has 


 been approved.


It also notes that Rhode Island's request to renew its demonstration 
project has also been approved.

And what exactly did Mark McClellan approve? Here is the next quote:




 Expenditures for expanded SCHIP eligibility to individuals 


 who, at the time of initial application, are custodial 


 parents or relative caretakers of children eligible under the 


 plan.


Signed Dr. Mark McClellan.

The Bush administration approved the program in Rhode Island for 
custodial parents and relative caretakers. Yet the President is 
shocked--shocked--that this program may cover some adults.

President Bush, you authorized the coverage for these adults over and 
over, State by State, through your Cabinet Secretary overseeing this 
problem. Your argument, sir, is with yourself.

All I can say is you were right the first time, before you took this 
shameful ideological U-turn.

Setting aside reason, setting aside the security and peace of mind of 
countless working-class families, driven by ideology, President Bush 
lifted his veto pen for only the fourth time in his Presidency and 
struck down the Children's Health Insurance Program. His reason this 
week: Because it costs too much.

In other words, the same administration that in 1 year, in 2008, will 
spend $70 billion to pay for the Bush tax cuts for the top 1 percent of 
income earners, thinks it is too much to spend half that much over 5 
years to provide billions of American children affordable health care. 
Said another way, the annual cost of Bush tax cuts for the superrich is 
10 times the annual cost of this bill for children's health care, and 
he says he vetoes it over its cost.

The same administration is spending more than $10 billion each month 
in Iraq, with no plan for ending the war and bringing our troops home, 
an administration that is now asking for 200 billion more dollars for 
the war this coming year, refuses to spend $35 billion over the next 5 
years to provide


millions of children all over this country affordable health care.

Instead, the President sought a funding level that would result in 1 
million American children losing--losing--their health insurance.

So where would their families go to get these children health care if 
they don't have access to this insurance under the President's 
proposal? Well, before an audience in Cleveland on July 10, the 
President of the United States revealed his approach:




 People have access to health care in America--


He said.




 After all, you just go to an emergency room.


So that is it.

Tax cuts for billionaires that explode our national debt and leave 
future generations on the hook to pay for it--that is a big priority 
for President Bush. Billions for Blackwater, for an endless war with no 
plan to end it, for no-bid contracts for Halliburton--that is a big 
priority for President Bush.

But health care for children and their struggling working-class 
families, all paid for in the budget after hard-working bipartisan 
compromise? Nope. That is not a priority. That is a veto.

And the kids? ''Send them to the emergency room,'' he says.

I am ashamed of the President's decision. His veto was unnecessary. 
It was wrong. It is now up to Congress to make it right. I ask my 
colleagues to override the President's veto of children's health 
insurance.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.