# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `c60544ac5ce520d62ce99ce52f08eb1f`
`Mr. HUNTER â€” 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, I reluctantly rise to oppose this amendment 
because of my great respect for the gentlewoman. But this Status of 
Forces Agreement is something that we've done now in over 80-some 
countries. And it's not a guarantee of security. It's not a guarantee 
of defense. It is not and should not be considered as a treaty. It is 
simply for the protection of American soldiers and American civilian 
personnel.

It sets out, for example, if you are sued, if you're charged with a 
criminal action, there has to be an agreement between the countries as 
to how people are treated, that is, how American personnel are treated, 
and under the agreement that Iraq has made with the United States.

Now, Secretary Gates has testified to us in the Armed Services 
Committee, and he has been asked about the SOFA, and he has said there 
are no security guarantees in this SOFA. We're going to have the same 
team that has done SOFAs, these Status of Forces Agreements, in many 
other countries, moving in to do the same Status of Forces Agreement 
that will go over the same types of things. And, again, this does not 
rise to the level of a treaty because this is not going to be an 
agreement with respect to security guarantees for Iraq. It will contain 
no security commitment, and it will not obligate force structure or 
troop strength or assure any other security guarantees.

So, Mr. Chairman, this is not a treaty. And I appreciate the 
gentlewoman's statements and her intent, and there may be at some point 
an agreement between Iraq and the United States that will be a treaty 
with respect to security commitments. This doesn't do it. What this 
does is protect American personnel. We need it and we need to negotiate 
it. We need to get it done. It's not a treaty, and we should not make 
it subject to ratification by Congress.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.