# None
## `c653a15136e067cd7c413302166e9cae`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I came to the floor to speak in 
support of the Feingold amendment. I came purposely to talk about that 
issue, but I am compelled, having heard some of the remarks made by 
some of our colleagues, to first preface my remarks as it relates to 
this debate.

Yes, we are happy to have a debate, but it doesn't take 30 hours to 
come to the same conclusion the American people have clearly come to in 
this country: that continual engagement in the war in Iraq and the 
course we are on is not in the national interests of the United States. 
They have come through the common sense Americans always show. This is 
overwhelmingly the conclusion of a great majority of Americans. They 
understand. It doesn't take us 30 hours to do that. We can have an 
open, honest, and intelligent debate with a few Members on each side 
making the case for their respective points of view, but we don't have 
to take 30 hours in order to get to that goal so that we can move to 
the other important business of the Senate.

This is important business. It deserves a thorough debate. But, by 
the same token, it is clear that the whole process of objecting to the 
majority leader's effort to limit the scope of time so that we can have 
a robust debate but then go on to the other business before the Senate 
is to extend the time, is to delay us.

We have seen through a record number of filibusters the Republican 
minority has used in this Chamber in a way that defies all historic 
proportions. It is clear that what was intended to be used as a rare 
occasion to protect the rights of the minority, particularly on 
exceptional critical issues of the time, has now been abused in such a 
way in which it is intended to stall the work of the Senate but, more 
importantly, the work of the American people. That is the framework in 
which we start this debate. We can have a robust debate, but we don't 
need 30 hours to accomplish it.

Secondly, I cannot understand how some Members can come to the floor 
of the Senate and rail against the fact that the foreign intelligence 
surveillance bill has not been passed by the House of Representatives 
when they refused to agree to a 21-day extension of the existing law 
that gives the administration everything they want to do. So if this is 
such a critical issue, as has been described by Members of the 
Republican side of the aisle, why would they not have agreed to 
continue while the Congress debated the opportunity to extend the law 
that allows you to do all those things you say are critical to the 
protection of the American people?

I can only come to the conclusion that either it is not as critical 
as they define, because fear is what we sell, it seems, on the 
Republican side--we have been hearing fear for quite some time; the 
American people have caught up to that--or, in fact, they simply want 
to have the proposition for a political purpose. If not, we would have 
had the 21-day extension. Everything the administration claims they 
needed, they would have had, and therefore we would have been able to 
move forward. Those two items need to be put in context.

Let me get to the main purpose of what I came to the floor to speak 
about, and that is in support of the Feingold amendment.

The Senate has an opportunity, once again, to vote to transition our 
troops out of Iraq with honor and refocus our efforts on defeating al-
Qaida. It is long past time for us to make that decision. The 
administration has never told us the truth about the war in Iraq. Some 
people want to gloss over that. But if what is past is prologue, then 
we need to be worried about what we constantly hear.


The budget they submitted to Congress is the latest proof of that. 
The budget is terrible in a lot of ways. It leaves millions of children 
without full access to health care. It fails to wean us off our 
addiction to foreign oil. It fails to adequately address climate 
change. It fails to repair our education system or shrink the 
ballooning deficit. Basically, it fails to make a serious effort to 
tackle the most pressing problems average Americans face in their lives 
each and every day.

Beyond that, the budget is dishonest about the cost of one of the 
most expensive wars in our history, a war that has lasted more than 
America's engagement in World War II. It lists the cost of the war in 
Iraq for next year at $70 billion. All the other calculations in the 
budget, including the debt and the deficit, in some way assume that $70 
billion is all the war is going to cost in the next fiscal year. We 
have to wonder if whoever wrote the section of the budget on Iraq found 
their job after leaving their old post at the accounting department of 
Enron because it is clearly the same type of accounting.

Recently, the Secretary of Defense took a baby step toward honesty 
and estimated the true cost for next year at another $170 billion of 
America's money. He said that was just a rough estimate, because when 
you have already spent more than a half trillion dollars, I guess you 
just round up to the nearest hundred billion. This is from an 
administration that over 5 years of a historical engagement in Iraq 
knows how many troops we have, knows the projection moving forward, and 
therefore knows what the consequences in terms of cost are. To send a 
budget to the Congress that everyone knows in the context of the cost 
in Iraq is a farce, this type of carelessness--if one can call it 
carelessness--in accounting is offensive to the American people who are 
funding the war.

This administration is so dead set on staying in Iraq. I know some 
Presidential candidates have suggested that


we will do so for 100 years, if necessary. They just don't seem to care 
how much tax money they spend. They don't seem to care how much money 
they have to borrow from the Chinese to pay the bills, because we don't 
pay for this in terms of how we are going to afford the war. We don't 
domestically decide, well, this is going to be offset by some either 
revenue stream or cuts in programs. No, under this administration, we 
just keep adding it to the next generation--more debt, more debt. They 
don't seem to care how much wind gets knocked out of our economy 
because the money could have gone to creating jobs, stimulating the 
production of green energy, or helping families make ends meet.

As a matter of fact, we could use that money to do something that is 
critically important as well--protect America here on domestic soil. 
Because as we look at the President's budget, what does it do? It 
eliminates COPS funding that put 100,000 police officers on the streets 
of the cities. It cuts homeland security grants to States by 70 
percent. It cuts port security by half. It cuts infrastructure security 
by half. This at a time in which every report, including those of the 
administration, has al-Qaida reconstituted on the Pakistan-Afghanistan 
border, and reports are coming out that they have been reconstituted 
with the strength and the ability to perform another attack on the 
United States.

The terrorists have to only get lucky once. We have to be right 100 
percent of the time. How can you achieve those goals when you eliminate 
the very essence of the funding for those who, as we learned on 
September 11, came to respond on that fateful day? It wasn't the 
Federal Government, it was local police and firefighters and emergency 
management and hospital personnel. That is who came. What does this 
budget do? It slashes the living daylights out of those very first 
responders who are critical to our domestic security.

What does it do about one of the gaping wounds we have in the country 
in terms of security? It slashes port security. Everybody who comes to 
the Capitol has to go through a security device, 100 percent. Everybody 
who goes to the White House has to go through a security device, 100 
percent. But when we talk about cargo coming from all over the world, 
only 5 percent has to go through the scanning process. Yet we are going 
to cut port security by 50 percent.


Mass transit: The Congress spoke in the last session and put mass 
transit up there, understanding we saw what happened in Madrid and 
Mumbai and other places in the world. Yet the President cuts mass 
transit security by 56 percent.

So to those who argue we cannot talk about the consequences of our 
engagement in Iraq in a financial context here at home, well, in the 
context of security here at home, at a time of a regrouping and 
restrengthening of al-Qaida on the Pakistan-Afghanistan border, with 
the ability to ultimately commit terrorism domestically in the United 
States, yes, there is a real causal connection and a real consequence 
and we have to include that as part of the debate and part of the 
consequences in our continuing engagement in Iraq in an open-ended way.

Now, with what we heard the Secretary of Defense talk about with the 
amount of money the Secretary of Defense thinks we might spend in Iraq 
next year, in a different context we could have more than doubled our 
package to stimulate the economy this year. When Americans get rebate 
checks in a month or so, they should imagine them more than twice as 
big because that is what this year in Iraq would cost.

If we want to imagine the total financial cost of the war in Iraq 
over almost 5 years, if we want to imagine what $608 billion means, we 
could divide that up and send every American a check for $2,000.

If we want to know what the war will cost over the next decade if we 
continue the course we are on, that is about $2.8 trillion. Every 
American should picture a check for more than $9,000. That is what the 
war costs: more than $9,000 for every man, woman, and child living in 
the United States of America. If there are four people in your family, 
that is $36,000 that potentially could have been put in your family's 
economy.

When so many hard-working families are struggling to keep their 
homes, and so many are struggling to help keep up with the rising cost 
of health care and college tuition and heating oil, when so many have 
to care for aging parents, put food on the table, and struggle to make 
ends meet each month, $36,000 would go a long way. So it is a different 
way of looking at it.

There are many different ways of looking at the costs of the war. So 
here is how it all adds up. We cannot think about economic stimulus 
without thinking about how we can stimulate peace. We cannot heal our 
economy without closing the financial hemorrhage that is the war in 
Iraq. It seems to me that in addition to those financial contexts, 
there is the whole question of security--the security I talked about in 
a domestic capacity; the security challenges we have by overextending 
our troops in such a way in which all of our military leadership speaks 
about the challenges we would have if we had to meet another security 
challenge in the world; and basically an understanding that, God 
forbid, we had another security challenge, while we are still engaged 
in Iraq in the way in which we are engaged, while we have a resurgence 
in Afghanistan of the Taliban, with some of the latest reports talking 
about some very fierce fighting and the lack of response by NATO and a 
pumping up of our troops there; and looking at that scenario and now 
looking at the Afghanistan-Pakistan border, where al-Qaida has 
reconstituted. And that is, God forbid, if anything else happens in the 
world.

That is our challenge, in a security context, if we continue the 
course: a challenge that those who have the military prowess tell us we 
cannot meet if we continue in this way.

For 5 years, the administration has parroted the line that: ''We're 
fighting them over there so we don't have to fight them here.'' But now 
more than ever we realize that one of the biggest impacts of the war 
has been we are spending our money over there and, therefore, we cannot 
spend it here--money that includes billions of dollars that have been 
misspent, including hundreds of millions of dollars in reconstruction 
projects that are unaccounted for.

I came back from Iraq about a month ago. I must say, when I see 
schools going wanting here in America, when I see hospitals closing in 
my home State, when I see roads that have deteriorated, bridges that 
have fallen, and see reconstruction in Iraq but no construction here at 
home, those are real consequences of the war.

When I see us talk about the genocide in Darfur, and we are 
universally committed to the proposition ''never again,'' ''never 
again,'' what does ''never again'' mean? That we will not repeat the 
legacies of the past, the failures of the past: in the Holocaust, in 
Rwanda, in the Armenian Genocide. No, no, we will act. Yet because of 
our present security challenges, and the consequences of being engaged 
in Iraq in the way we are, we stand by and watch people in Darfur be 
slaughtered. So much for ''never again.''

Not long ago, about a month ago, I had the chance to make a trip to 
Iraq myself. First and foremost, the trip proved something I believed 
for a long time: We should be incredibly proud of the men and women who 
wear the uniform of the United States and who are serving there. They 
do not ask whether this is the right or wrong mission. They just serve 
with honor and integrity, and they risk their lives every day.


I came away extremely impressed with their commitment, and I felt 
honored to be able to share some time with them, including many from my 
home State of New Jersey who are serving there. So we need to give them 
a mission worthy of their sacrifice. I believe that is what Senator 
Feingold's amendment does.

Beyond that, one other thing became very clear to me. The solutions 
to Iraq's problems lie in the hands of the Iraqis. We cannot achieve 
peace, we cannot achieve reconciliation, we cannot achieve power 
sharing, we cannot get Sunni, Shia, and Kurd to sit side by side at the 
point of a military gun.

As long as we continue to, in essence, be enablers of an Iraqi 
leadership that has become so dependent on the United


States and refuses to meet the challenges of the hard choices, 
compromises, and negotiations necessary for their Government to 
ultimately achieve, they will never, ever feel the urgency of now.

When the President sent 30,000 additional troops into harm's way in 
Iraq last year, the purpose--his purpose, his stated purpose; not my 
view of it, his stated purpose--his stated purpose was to allow Iraqis 
to have the opportunity and the space, the environment, to strengthen 
the Federal Government and achieve national reconciliation.

That, no matter how we try to paint it, has not been accomplished. 
Even our own benchmarks, that even the administration agreed to and the 
Iraqis agreed to, have largely not been accomplished. So to use a 
sports analogy, we keep changing the goalposts every time, further and 
further away from the obligations the Iraqi leadership has.

Not too long ago, Iraq's Parliament finally passed three laws, after 
months of bitter squabbling. We certainly should applaud them for that. 
But the Bush administration is touting this event as an end-all, be-all 
political breakthrough. But, as usual, they are taking a small bit of 
good news and trying to whitewash the bigger picture.

The agreement the Iraqi Parliament reached is basically temporary. 
The provincial powers arrangement is set to expire--guess what--in 1 
year--what they passed has an expiration in 1 year--to hold the 
politicians over so they can have the same arguments all over again 
next year.

Iraqi politicians are still a long way from permanent agreements over 
fundamental issues because they do not have the pressures of the 
necessity to do so. The reason is, as long as we continue to insist in 
an open-ended presence in the lives of Americans and the national 
treasure of the United States, they will not make the hard choices and 
compromises necessary to achieve lasting stability.

When I went to Iraq and met with a lot of the Iraqi elected 
leadership and some of the tribal chiefs and whatnot, I was stunned 
that they kept telling me about what America needed to do. My response 
to them was: Iraq's future is in your hands, not in America's hands. 
You must make these decisions for your country.

I know we have heard a lot about the surge, and certainly it depends 
on what your measurement is. If you are talking about greater security 
in Baghdad, the answer is, yes, yes; no question--although Baghdad has 
become far more segregated as a city, so that one of the ways in which 
security has been achieved is that we segregate Sunnis and Shias into 
different parts of Baghdad's neighborhood. Maybe that is the cost.

But when I landed, I was supposed to go to Mosul. I was not able to 
go to Mosul because they could not guarantee my protection. We have 
millions of displaced Iraqis who are beginning to come back. And now 
they come back to neighborhoods and to homes where the person living 
there is--not only has their home been taken over, but they are not 
even from their same sect. So they feel they cannot go live there.

I asked: How are you ready to take on the displacement of several 
million of your country people coming back to the country? They have no 
real plan. We have 80,000 or so concerned local citizens, individuals 
who at one time fought us and have decided to join us but who are on 
the payroll--we pay them every week to be there--and their expectation 
is they are going to be integrated either into the security forces or 
get some type of employment. We do not have from the Iraqis a clear 
sense of how they are going to meet that challenge. These are 80,000 
individuals who have weapons on them.

So when we hear about the surge, let's not forget what President Bush 
said was the purpose. It was to create the space and environment 
necessary for the opportunity for Iraqi leadership to make the hard 
choices, compromises, and negotiations, to pass the benchmarks we had 
passed and the Iraqis agreed to. That has failed. That has failed.

About security: Yes, we have created greater security in Baghdad. We 
also have created greater segregation in Baghdad. And we have pushed 
the challenges elsewhere in the country.

At Combat Post X-Ray outside of Baghdad, I met with troops from New 
Jersey serving in the Air Force. An IED had just killed one of their 
colleagues and wounded several others.

The hardest thing I have had to do in 33 years of public life is to 
call a family and give them my condolences because a loved one has been 
killed. It is the hardest thing I have had to do in public life. It is 
hard enough for a parent or a wife or a husband or a mother or a father 
to hear that when they believe their family member was fighting for 
freedom and for our security. It is incomprehensible when that death 
was about Iraqi politicians fighting for resources and power.

When General Petraeus was here last year and came before the Senate 
Foreign Relations Committee, he said in his testimony that what we have 
in Iraq going on is a fight over power and resources.

I do not think Americans believe that sending their sons and 
daughters into harm's way so Iraqis can fight over power and resources 
is a mission worthy of their sacrifice. There is no military solution 
in Iraq. Everyone, including General Petraeus, has admitted that.

The only way to pressure Iraqi politicians into making the choices 
necessary to move their country forward is to stop signing blank checks 
and to set a timetable to transition our troops back home. That is, in 
essence, what my colleague, Senator Feingold, does. He creates a 
transition, effective 120 days after this law is passed and signed by 
the President. But that still permits us to meet critical missions, to 
conduct targeted operations against members of al-Qaida, the real 
threat to the United States, and affiliated international terrorist 
organizations; to provide the security for our own personnel and the 
infrastructure of the U.S. Government; to provide training to members 
of the Iraqi security forces who have not been involved in sectarian 
violence or in attacks upon the U.S. Armed Forces so that we can ensure 
that they can ultimately be able to stand up for their own country as 
our major focus; and to provide training, equipment, or other materiel 
to members of the U.S. Armed Forces to ensure, maintain, or improve 
their safety and security while redeploying members of the U.S. Armed 
Forces.


That, in my mind, is ultimately an opportunity to transition with 
honor; focus our mission on whom we need to--al-Qaida; strengthen the 
Iraqi security forces to meet their own challenge; and send a message 
to the Iraqi leadership that you must do what you have failed to do. 
The opportunity has been given to you. We cannot continue an open check 
in terms of national treasure or a continuing loss of American lives.

Finally, I felt truly blessed to step onto American soil after flying 
back from Iraq. Too many American men and women over there do not have 
the option right now of taking that return flight, and too many 
Americans have not returned, and others may not as well. I have seen 
firsthand how bravely our troops have served, but let's be clear about 
that service: American troops cannot be waiting for Iraqis forever to 
make the choices necessary to achieve success in their country. They 
cannot be asked to serve up a functional society on a platter. They 
cannot be expected to be the only ones serving up a functional electric 
grid, sewer systems, or revenue-sharing agreements about oil. As the 
former Chief of Staff said, we need the Iraqis to love their children 
more than they hate their neighbors. That is a powerful truism, but 
that does not come at the point of a gun.

If Iraqi politicians think they can sit back and keep looking at the 
menu of options and squabble over the choices no matter what, Americans 
will keep delivering everything they order; they will keep picking up 
the tab, they will never feel the pressing urgency to build a 
functional country for themselves. It is time for that type of service 
to end. It is time for every American soldier to have the most 
wonderful privilege we as Senators have had who have visited Iraq: the 
privilege of booking a return home ticket.

Madam President, I yield the floor.