# None
## `c6784ff12aef26602423561308338ae9`
`Ms. BORDALLO â€” 17 May 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to SFC 
(Ret.) Frankie Salas Cruz for his service to his community. I commend 
the United States Army on Fort Hood for dedicating a Family Readiness 
building in honor of Sergeant Frankie Cruz. Sergeant Cruz and his 2 
children, Jade Christine, and Christopher Frankie, tragically passed 
away on February 14, 2007 after a terrible car accident.

Sergeant Cruz was born on September 20, 1958 in Tamuning, Guam, the 
loving son of Juan Camacho and Luisa Borja Cruz. Sergeant Cruz was 
dedicated to public service from his earliest years. Many fondly 
remember his service as a Scoutmaster for Troop 200 and to the First 
Baptist Church of Lampasas, Texas. After graduating from Guam 
Vocational-Technical High School, he completed his Associates Degree 
from the University of Maryland in 1984.

During college, Sergeant Cruz, began his distinguished service to the 
Nation. He completed 3 years of Reserve Officer Training Corps, ROTC, 
leadership training then enlisted in the U.S. Army. He retired from the 
Army after 22 years of honorable and faithful service to our Nation. 
Most notably, Sergeant Cruz served our Nation honorably during the 
First Gulf War in 1991 and, most recently, in Operation Iraqi Freedom.

It is only appropriate that the Army name this facility after 
Sergeant Cruz to honor his 22 years of dedicated service. Employees and 
friends throughout his career note Sergeant Cruz's ''can do'' attitude 
with every project or task he was assigned. In fact, at the time of his 
passing, Sergeant Cruz had embarked as team lead for a $39 million base 
building rehabilitation project. The respect and admiration everyone 
had for Sergeant Cruz will be eternally memorialized at this building 
on Fort Hood.

Sergeant Cruz's daughter Jade, and son Christopher, will also be 
remembered fondly. Jade was born on April 12, 1988 in Fort Eustis, 
Virginia. Her beauty, energy and vitality were just some of the 
attributes that made her an accomplished athlete and cheerleader. 
Beyond her athletic prowess, Jade took her academics seriously and was 
a student at Central Texas College at the time of her passing.

Christopher was born on September 7, 1989 in Fort Eustis, Virginia. 
Christopher will be remembered as an accomplished scholar and member of 
the Junior National Honor Society. Like many other in his generation, 
Christopher volunteered many of his hours toward various goodwill 
projects. Also, much like his father, he was a highly decorated Boy 
Scout earning the highest rank of Eagle Scout. Christopher's talents 
also transcended into music. He was the drum major in the Lampasas 
Marching Band and played the saxophone in the high school jazz band.

The tremendous accomplishments of Jade and Christopher are reflective 
of their father's love, care and passion for his children. Learning of 
these accomplishments makes their passing even more difficult to bear. 
I take solace in that the memory of their love, passion and hard work 
will always be on display for the Fort Hood community.

I join the people of Guam and the Fort Hood community in mourning the 
passing of Sergeant Frankie Cruz and his children, Jade and 
Christopher. I offer my condolences to their wife and mother, Mrs. 
Linda Cruz, Sergeant Cruz's other sons and their extended family. I 
thank Sergeant Cruz for his admirable service to our Nation in times of 
great difficulty and to the support his children provided. The Cruz 
family can all be proud of their family's achievements and strength.
