# RECOGNIZING WORLD REFUGEE DAY
## `c76dc62bfaa3af4c782efb480dff91c2`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas â€” 23 June 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
H. Res. 1350, recognizing June 20, 2010, as World Refugee Day. I thank 
my colleague, Ms. Watson, for introducing this resolution that reminds 
us of the importance of protecting those who are vulnerable and finding 
a home for those who are displaced.

The theme of this year's World Refugee Day on June 20, 2010 is 
''Home,'' in recognition of the plight of more than 40 million uprooted 
and displaced people around the world; approximately 10 million of whom 
are refugees of special concern to UNHCR.

As a Member of the Bipartisan Congressional Refugee Caucus, I have 
continuously stood up for the rights of the world's refugees. Today, 
there are more than 42 million refugees, including 16 million refugees 
outside their countries and 26 million others displaced internally.

This year, I am especially concerned for the people of Haiti--many of 
whom are facing the rainy season without a suitable home. According to 
Refugees International, approximately 700,000 people in Port-au-Prince 
are without homes or proper shelter and another 600,000 people have 
left the capital.

I also welcome the announcement from the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, that 100,000 people having 
been referred for resettlement from the Middle East to third countries 
since 2007.

From Iraq and Afghanistan, to Sudan and the Congo, to Burma and 
Colombia, the United Nations Refugee Agency, with ample support from 
the United States, manages to support over 25 million. Indeed, these 
vulnerable individuals depend on the United States, other governments, 
the United Nations and other agencies for the protection of their basic 
human rights.

The United States is in fact a global leader in the protection of 
refugees and internally displaced persons. In the year 2010 the United 
States celebrates the 30th anniversary of the Refugee Act of 1980, a 
cornerstone of refugee protection and assistance which has brought the 
United States to be the single largest refugee resettlement country in 
the world, admitting a total of 65,722 in 2007. Moreover, the United 
States is the single largest donor to the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees.

Madam Speaker, I urge every one of my fellow members of Congress to 
join Congresswoman Watson and me in reaffirming the commitment of the 
United States to promote the safety, health, and well-being of millions 
of refugees, calling on the Department of State to continue to support 
the efforts of the U.N. High Commissioner for refugees, call on the 
U.S. Government to continue to strengthen its leadership role in 
protecting displaced persons, commending those who have risked their 
lives working to provide assistance to refugees, and reaffirming the 
goals of World Refugee Day. These are vulnerable people, people in 
need. Let us not forget them or our promise to find an end to their 
plight.