# None
## `c798a902df3cb963ec983b32878beda3`
`Mr. BARRETT of South Carolina â€” 23 May 2008`

---


Mr. BARRETT of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, On May 10, 2008, we 
commemorated the 85th Jubilee of the late President Heydar Aliyev. When 
Azerbaijan reclaimed independence in 1991, most Americans had never 
heard of the country. Soon after, the country found itself involved in 
a war with neighboring Armenia over Nagorno Karabakh, which resulted in 
one million refugees and 20 percent of Azerbaijani soil occupied by 
Armenian forces.

Out of chaos, economic turmoil, and questions about the viability of 
the country's independence, President Heydar Aliyev emerged as the 
President of the Republic. He was re-elected in 1998, and served until 
he passed away in December 2003. In May it is the 85th anniversary of 
his birthday, and it is fit to note the milestones that were reached 
under his leadership. The first state visit by a President of an 
independent Azerbaijan to the United States was realized July 27-August 
7, 1997. Prior to this visit, little knowledge, understanding or 
relations between the two countries existed. On August 1, 1997, a 
meeting at the White House between President Aliyev and President 
Clinton took place. It was a historic occasion where the two leaders 
signed a joint declaration that read:



 Presidents Clinton and Aliyev agreed on the importance of 


 expanding the partnership between the United States and the 


 Republic of Azerbaijan through strengthening bilateral 


 cooperation in the political, security, economic and 


 commercial spheres.

The U.S. also reaffirmed support for Azerbaijan's territorial 
integrity, sovereignty and independence. Under President Aliyev's 
leadership, Azerbaijan emerged as a critical player in the East-West 
Energy Transport corridor. The early oil pipeline, the Baku-Tbilisi-
Supsa oil pipeline was completed in 1997. Azerbaijan signed over 19 
production sharing agreements with international energy companies.

The decision to build the Maine Export Pipeline, MEP, was not an easy 
one.

Despite great obstacles, Azerbaijan, under the leadership of Heydar 
Aliyev, and with the support of the United States and Turkey, realized 
the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline which now runs from the Caspian 
through Georgia to the Turkish Mediterranean port of Ceyhan. This 
pipeline helps to guarantee Azerbaijan's independence and support of 
pro-Western foreign policy, provides energy resources to U.S. allies 
like Georgia and Turkey.

The late President Heydar Aliyev was a strong friend of the United 
States. Azerbaijan was one of the first countries to offer 
unconditional assistance to the United States after 9/11, and sent 
troops to Iraq and Afghanistan. President Aliyev's significant 
contributions to the country of Azerbaijan provided a fertile ground 
for the seeds of democracy to flourish after Soviet rule, and have 
paved the road for Azerbaijan's regional and international success.
