# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `c84e6c15d100ac90094ed562cf3a7cc8`
`Mr. KYL â€” 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Madam President, this piece by William Kristol and Frederick 
Kagan tries to take the arguments that have been offered by the 
opposition in favor of a timetable and demonstrate why those arguments 
are incorrect. The first of the arguments is that the Iraqi Government 
needs stimulus by us, or a threat by us, that if they don't hurry up 
and do what they are supposed to do, we are going to pull out. This 
kind of strings attached, therefore, makes some sense. They point out


the fact that, first of all, the resolution itself that was defeated in 
this body a week or so ago by a vote of 48 to 50, that resolution, 
which would have established timetables, was defeated, among other 
things, because the Iraqis have already gotten the message.

It is not so much about sending a message to them as it is about 
sending a message to our enemies and to our allies and to our own 
troops, which says regardless of what you do, we are going to be out by 
a certain date. The problem with the goals and with the specifics that 
are supposed to be achieved, the benchmarks, so-called, in the 
legislation is that it matters not how well the Iraqi Government 
performs; we are still going to be out by a date certain. So it is not 
the kind of message we want to send to the Iraqi Government and, 
clearly, not the kind we want to send to our enemies who simply know 
they have to just wait us out.

Another argument is that American forces would be able to fight al-
Qaida, and we don't need to be involved in the civil war of the Iraqis. 
It would take a lawyer to figure that out. You are going to have to 
have a lawyer with every squad on patrol to figure out whether they are 
fighting al-Qaida or somebody else or what kind of action can be taken. 
It is very hard to distinguish whom you are fighting when the fighting 
is going on. Al-Qaida is definitely a problem. What did al-Qaida do? 
They went over to bomb the Golden Mosque in Samarra, which got the 
Shiites to decide they had to provide protection with militias, which 
went over and attacked the Sunnis, who then went over and attacked the 
Shiites and achieved the objective that al-Qaida wanted: to foment 
violence among different factions within the country.

Where do you draw the line against fighting al-Qaida and someone else 
if someone else is doing al-Qaida's bidding? It is a very convoluted 
proposition. Clearly, you cannot have troops there to fight one 
specific enemy but not another, especially when they are so difficult 
to identify.

Finally, some think it is too late, that we have already lost, and we 
might as well figure out a way to get out. I haven't heard my 
colleagues talk that way because, under that scenario, you ought to cut 
off funding today and not wait for the 6 or 8 or 10 months called for 
under the resolution. As I said, the Senate defeated the virtually 
identical provision 2 weeks ago. One of the reasons is because our 
military is making progress. It is finding that, for example, in Sadr 
City, the mayor of Sadr City essentially invited the Iraqi and 
coalition forces in without a shot being fired. The forces of Moqtada 
al-Sadr have either gone underground or disbanded. Al-Sadr himself is 
believed to have gone to Iran. Prime Minister Maliki has made it clear 
he is not going to relent against the forces of the Sadr army. He has 
fired the Deputy Health Minister, one of Sadr's allies. He has turned a 
deaf ear to the complaints of al-Sadr. He oversaw the cleaning out of 
the Interior Ministry, which was a stronghold that was corrupting the 
Iraqi police. He has worked with other coalition leaders to deploy the 
Iraqi units pursuant to the Baghdad security plan. Interestingly, he 
has also visited the sheik in Ramadi, which is the capital of Anbar 
Province and formally the real base of al-Qaida operations, and has 
gotten cooperation with the tribal leaders in that area to join us in 
the effort against al-Qaida and other insurgents.


All of this is demonstrating cooperation of the Government in 
Baghdad, clearly refuting the notion that somehow the American policy 
has to be to threaten the Iraqis to cooperate with us or else we will 
leave and the only way to do that is by expressing that through a 
timetable. Clearly, the Iraqi Government is cooperating, and setting 
arbitrary deadlines would send exactly the wrong message both to our 
allies and, of course, to our enemies.

We need to express the view to our allies that we will be there to 
protect them when the going gets tough. The enemy is not simply going 
to lie down and allow this plan to continue to work. They will fight 
back. As somebody said, there are going to be good days and bad days, 
but our allies need to know that we will be there in the bad days and 
that we won't set an absolute deadline for getting out.

The other point I made earlier is the services need this supplemental 
appropriations bill, and that is why it is necessary for us to strike 
provisions of section 1315, provisions which would deny that funding 
without the strings that are attached.

To this point, I also alluded to the fact that section 1315 is 
internally contradictory and self-defeating. As I said, it provides 
benchmarks for the Iraqi leaders to meet and then says it doesn't 
matter whether they meet them, we are out of here. The resolution would 
not send any message that is constructive in any way and certainly is 
not changing the behavior of the administration.

There are some who might believe they could support section 1315 
because it is less restrictive than the House language. Indeed, it is 
somewhat less restrictive, although essentially a distinction without a 
difference.

This bill has to go to conference. There has been a great deal of 
discussion by pundits and others that the more liberal element in the 
House of Representatives is going to insist upon, at a bare minimum, 
the language that passed the House of Representatives which they felt 
was too moderate to begin with. We are likely to get change in a 
conference that is language the President will have to veto, language 
which is closer to the House language than the Senate language. I 
think, therefore, Senators should not be acting under the illusion that 
we can go ahead and pass this language and make sure that either in 
conference everything gets taken out or at least this language, rather 
than the more difficult House language, will be what is sent to the 
President.

The reality is these are real bullets. This is not something with 
which to play around. I don't think we can be voting for something just 
because maybe in the conference committee we can try to make it a 
little bit better.

Madam President, I wish to get to this point that will, perhaps, put 
this in perspective. I can't remember another time in history when the 
United States in the middle of a war has set a deadline and basically 
told the world: We will be out by this specific date. To state the 
proposition is to illustrate how odd and destructive a proposition it 
is. If someone can come to the floor and tell me when this has been 
done in the past and when it has had a salutary effect on the conflict, 
I would be very interested and would certainly be willing to listen to 
how that might have a positive effect here. But even colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle several months ago expressed themselves on the 
matter of timetables and deadlines, and they know who they are; they 
acknowledge this is not the way to fight a war. One thing you cannot do 
is tell the enemy when you are going to be leaving because it simply 
allows the enemy to wait you out. Nothing has changed. That fact still 
remains, and it seems almost inconceivable to me that Members now would 
be deciding it is now OK to set a deadline and to set timetables.

Some might argue that it is just a goal, it is not a timetable. But 
the reality is there are both embodied in this section which we seek to 
strike. The beginning phrase is, ''The President shall commence the 
phased redeployment of United States forces from Iraq not later than 
120 days after the date of enactment of the act.'' That is not a 
''maybe,'' it is not an ''if everything goes well'' or ''if everything 
doesn't go well,'' it is a ''shall commence'' redeployment. The goal is 
''with the goal of redeploying by March 31, 2008,'' but the ''shall 
commence'' is pursuant to that goal. So you have to start it, and then 
you keep going, and your goal is to get it done by March 31, 2008. The 
only exception is for the limited purposes of leaving troops behind to 
protect our infrastructure and coalition personnel, training and 
equipping Iraqi forces, and conducting targeted counterterrorism 
operations.

How do you decide how many troops you need to leave behind to conduct 
targeted counterterrorism operations when virtually everything we are 
doing in Iraq right now is counterterrorism? How do you decide we are 
going to be able to cut, say, in half the number of troops and still be 
able to effectively conduct targeted counterterrorism operations? If 
you are driving down a street to conduct a targeted counterterrorism 
operation and somebody begins firing on you, do you have to ask them 
whether they are a terrorist before you can return fire? Do you turn


to your lawyer sitting in the humvee with you: I want to comply with 
the law, so can I shoot back or not?

This is ludicrous. We cannot impose these kinds of conditions on our 
troops in the middle of combat and expect them to perform their mission 
safely. We send the best trained and best equipped troops into harm's 
way, and we need to give them the other tool they need to prevail; that 
is, the ability to carry out their mission as their commanders have 
defined it for them, not as it is micromanaged by a bunch of lawyers in 
Washington or Members of the Congress.

So, No. 1, this isn't just a wish that we redeploy. It begins ''shall 
commence the phased redeployment not later than 120 days after the date 
of enactment of this act,'' and the goal is to have it all done by 
March 31 of next year. That is so destructive in the middle of war that 
I just can't believe my colleagues would actually contemplate doing 
that or that they can believe putting these kinds of limitations on our 
troops is a realistic way to fight a war--conducting targeted 
counterterrorism operations but not returning fire against, what, 
against somebody defined as an insurgent, maybe? I don't understand it, 
and I don't know how many lawyers it is going to take to understand it. 
Our troops on the ground who are in the middle of a conflict certainly 
are not going to be able to fight and defend themselves under 
restrictions such as these, which is, I gather, precisely why the 
President says he will have to veto it.


That gets me to my last point. I can understand why, Madam President, 
if you felt this was a lost cause, you would want to just say: Let's 
have a vote to get out and be done with it and not fund the troops. But 
instead, there are some--and I am not suggesting in the Congress but 
there are some who have talked about this as a very clever strategy. 
They say the opponents of the President and the Congress are going to 
be able to say they voted to support the troops because they voted for 
a supplemental appropriations bill for that purpose, knowing all along, 
however, that it is a false exercise because it puts restrictions on 
the troops fighting the war that they can't possibly live with, so the 
President has to veto it. But he will get the blame, not them.

Well, that is too clever by half. The American people understand 
this. I urge, if any of my colleagues are considering supporting this 
for that reason, that they fail to appreciate that the American people, 
yes, would like to bring our troops home, they would like to see this 
conflict ended, but, no, they do not want it to end with an American 
defeat. They do not want to see us defeated and, most especially, I 
can't imagine anybody who wants to have our troops continue the war for 
a limited duration of time under rules which put them in great danger, 
which is what this would do. So the President has to veto it.

What happens when he vetoes the bill, if this is the form in which we 
pass it? We are now beyond April 15, the time the troops need the 
money, and yet Congress has still not acted to provide the security 
supplemental funding. The Defense Department now has to terminate 
contracts so they can switch money from this account over to this 
account and begin a very costly and time-consuming process of trying to 
make do while Congress makes up its mind, to make sure they can get the 
money to the troops so they can continue their operations.

Maybe secretly there are some out there who hope all of this will 
gradually reduce the ability of the troops to perform their mission so 
that it becomes a proposition where our strategy, even under the best 
of circumstances, can't succeed. In other words, the Petraeus plan 
fails because we couldn't get the support to the troops when they 
needed the support.

I hope that certainly my colleagues in the House and Senate will not 
buy into that proposition, will not pull the rug out from under our 
troops just when it appears this plan is showing signs of success. That 
slow-bleed strategy would not only ensure that we would lose everything 
we have gained so far, including the prospect of a success, but that 
our troops would be put in more danger now than they would be either by 
supporting them or simply by leaving. It would leave them in a middle 
ground, in the middle of a fire but without the ability to properly 
defend themselves.

Maybe some believe that would force our hand and just bring them home 
anyway, acknowledge defeat, and be done with it. I don't think that is 
what the American people want. If anybody is thinking that is the 
strategy behind this proposition, I think they are not only misreading 
American public opinion but do not have the best interests of our 
troops in mind.

Since that is the rationale behind this resolution, as offered by my 
colleagues, I am sure that is not the case. But that is why we need to 
strike this particular section from the bill.

We will talk later about some other items that need to be stricken as 
well. It is amazing to me, and I won't get into all the pork that is in 
this bill, but here we have a security supplemental, emergency funding 
to support the troops, and we decide to lard it up with all manner of 
items that are not emergencies, have nothing to do with supporting the 
troops, but because everybody knows this is a must-pass bill, they 
figure this is a real good opportunity for them to get things in the 
bill that might otherwise be very difficult to pass in the Congress.

Just a couple ideas: $3.5 million related to guided tours of the U.S. 
Capitol. I am all for guided tours of the U.S. Capitol, but is this an 
emergency?

There is $13 million for mine safety research. I am sure mine safety 
is important to research. Is this an emergency which can't be put in a 
regular appropriations bill?

We are targeting funding for sugar beets. I presume I like sugar 
beets--I am not sure--but I don't think it is an emergency for which we 
need to spend $24 million.

There is another $3 million funding for sugarcane, which I understand 
goes to one Hawaiian cooperative.

Here is something which would appeal to all the politicians: $100 
million for security related to the Republican and Democratic 
Presidential nominating conventions. Is that next month, Madam 
President? I have forgotten. Nominating conventions would be in July 
and August, not of this year but the following year--not exactly an 
emergency we need to fund in an emergency security supplemental to 
conduct this war.

Do my colleagues hear what I am saying? Politicians have decided this 
is a good train to get on board because it has to move, we have to fund 
the troops. Since it is hard for us to get the Senate and the House to 
act on these items otherwise, we will just try to attach them to this 
bill.

We will have other amendments to try to remove these extraneous 
matters from this funding bill. But what I wanted to talk about today 
was primarily my concern that if we don't strike this section which has 
the timetables for withdrawal, then one of two things is going to 
happen: Either the President vetoes the bill and it then takes us 
forever to get a clean bill to the President, with the result that the 
troops don't have the funding they need and the strategy that is 
currently working becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy for those who say 
it can't work because they have denied the funds for it to work, or 
these provisions remain and, of course, it is impossible to conduct 
operations with these strings attached for our troops. Either way, it 
is a heck of a way to fight a war. And it illustrates to me that we 
ought not try to micromanage this conflict from the Halls of Congress. 
We have plenty of other things that should occupy our time than 
developing a strategy and the rules of engagement for fighting a war 
when we have perfectly good people, such as General Petraeus who was 
unanimously confirmed by this body, to develop a plan and see to it 
that it is properly executed. We have sent him over to do it. I suggest 
we give him and his troops the support they need to get the job done.


I would support the amendment of the Senator from Mississippi to 
strike this section from the bill.

Madam President, I yield the floor.









[From the Weekly Standard, Apr. 2, 2007]














Wrong on Timetables








(By William Kristol and Frederick W. Kagan)




 Let's give congressional Democrats the benefit of the 


 doubt: Assume some of them earnestly think they're doing the 


 right thing to insist on adding to the supplemental 


 appropriation for the Iraq war benchmarks and




 timetables for withdrawal. Still, their own arguments--taken 


 at face value--don't hold up.



 Democrats in Congress have made three superficially 


 plausible claims: (1) Benchmarks and timetables will 


 ''incentivize'' the Maliki government to take necessary steps 


 it would prefer to avoid. (2) We can gradually withdraw over 


 the next year so as to step out of sectarian conflict in Iraq 


 while still remaining to fight al Qaeda. (3) Defeat in Iraq 


 is inevitable, so our primary goal really has to be to get 


 out of there. But the situation in Iraq is moving rapidly 


 away from the assumptions underlying these propositions, and 


 their falseness is easier to show with each passing day.



 (1) The Iraqi government will not act responsibly unless 


 the imminent departure of American forces compels it to do 


 so. Those who sincerely believe this argument were horrified 


 by the president's decision in January to increase the 


 American military presence in Iraq. It has now been more than 


 ten weeks since that announcement--long enough to judge 


 whether the Maliki government is more or less likely to 


 behave well when U.S. support seems robust and reliable.



 In fact, since January 11, Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki 


 has permitted U.S. forces to sweep the major Shiite 


 strongholds in Baghdad, including Sadr City, which he had 


 ordered American troops away from during operations in 2006. 


 He has allowed U.S. forces to capture and kill senior leaders 


 of Moktada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army--terrifying Sadr into fleeing 


 to Iran. He fired the deputy health minister--one of Sadr's 


 close allies--and turned a deaf ear to Sadr's complaints. He 


 oversaw a clearing-out of the Interior Ministry, a Sadrist 


 stronghold that was corrupting the Iraqi police. He has 


 worked with coalition leaders deploy all of the Iraqi Army 


 units required by the Baghdad Security Plan. In perhaps the 


 most dramatic move of all, Maliki visited Sunni sheikhs in 


 Ramadi, the capital of Anbar province and formerly the base 


 of al Qaeda fighters and other Sunni Arab insurgents against 


 his government. The visit was made possible because Anbar's 


 sheikhs have turned against al Qaeda and are now reaching out 


 to the government they had been fighting. Maliki is reaching 


 back. U.S. strength has given him the confidence to take all 


 these important steps.



 (2) American forces would be able to fight al Qaeda at 


 least as well, if not better, if they were not also engaged 


 in a sectarian civil war in Iraq. The idea of separating the 


 fight against al Qaeda from the sectarian fighting in Iraq is 


 a delusion. Since early 2004, al Qaeda in Iraq (AQI) has 


 sought to plunge Iraq into sectarian civil war, so as to 


 critically weaken the government, which is fighting it. AQI 


 endeavors to clear Shiites out of mixed areas, terrorize 


 local Sunnis into tolerating and supporting AQI, and thereby 


 establish safe havens surrounded by innocent people it then 


 dragoons into the struggle. Now, heartened by the U.S. 


 commitment to stay, Sunni sheikhs in Anbar have turned on 


 AQI. In response, AQI has begun to move toward Baghdad and 


 mixed areas in Diyala, attempting to terrorize the locals and 


 establish new bases in the resulting chaos. The enemy 


 understands that chaos is al Qaeda's friend. The notion that 


 we can pull our troops back into fortresses in a climate of 


 chaos--but still move selectively against al Qaeda--is 


 fanciful. There can be no hope of defeating or controlling al 


 Qaeda in Iraq without controlling the sectarian violence that 


 it spawns and relies upon.



 (3) Isn't it too late? Even if we now have the right 


 strategy and the right general, can we prevail? If there were 


 no hope left, if the Iraqis were determined to wage full-


 scale civil war, if the Maliki government were weak or 


 dominated by violent extremists, if Iran really controlled 


 the Shiites in Iraq--if these things were true, then the new 


 strategy would have borne no fruit at all. Maliki would have 


 resisted or remained limp as before. Sadr's forces would have 


 attacked. Coalition casualties would be up, and so would 


 sectarian killings. But none of these things has happened. 


 Sectarian killings are lower. And despite dramatically 


 increased operations in more exposed settings, so are 


 American casualties. This does not look like hopelessness.



 Hope is not victory, of course. The surge has just begun, 


 our enemies are adapting, and fighting is likely to intensify 


 as U.S. and Iraqi forces begin the main clear-and-hold phase. 


 The Maliki government could falter. But it need not, if we do 


 not. Unfortunately, four years of setbacks have conditioned 


 Americans to believe that any progress must be ephemeral. If 


 the Democrats get their way and Gen. Petraeus is undermined 


 in Congress, the progress may indeed prove short-lived. But 


 it's time to stop thinking so hard about how to lose, and to 


 think instead about how to reinforce and exploit the success 


 we have begun to achieve. The debate in Washington hasn't 


 caught up to the realities in Baghdad. Until it does, a 


 resolute president will need to prevent defeatists in 


 Congress from losing a winnable war in Iraq.
