# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c88e69b667250f02bb64ced314743eb3`
`Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker, the American 
people want a new direction in Iraq and I expect Congress to act 
accordingly. They really do think that this is a democracy and that 
this is representative government.



It has been almost 4 years since this administration declared the end 
of major combat in Iraq. He declared mission accomplished. Since this 
declaration, we have seen more than 3,000 of our military killed in 
combat, and more than 22,000 injured.

We cannot forget that these are not just numbers. These are our sons 
and daughters and grandsons and granddaughters. They are now more than 
3,000 men and women who will never return home to be with their 
families. Many are so young, at 18, 19 and 20 years old, their lives 
have ended before they ever really began.

I started my professional career as a psychiatric nurse at the Dallas 
Veterans Administration Hospital, and I observed firsthand the physical 
and psychological trauma that the returning young people faced from the 
Vietnam war.

It is a long-term battle for them and their families as they learn to 
live with these disabilities. We are in a war with no end in sight, and 
now we are talking about troop escalation. How many more young lives 
are we going to lose? How many more soldiers will face long-term 
disabilities, life-long disabilities? The experts have weighed in on 
this issue, and they have said we are making a mistake to escalate.

The President sent a group of experts to design a new course for 
Iraq. The President's experts did not recommend additional troops. In 
fact, they recommended the very opposite.

Madam Speaker, it is time to listen to the experts and the commanders 
on the ground. Our troops are faced with an impossible task of policing 
a civil war. Each day we hear of sectarian attacks and bombings. Our 
troops are caught in the middle with no real strategy to end this 
violence. A great American military cannot be a substitute for a weak 
Iraqi government.

We need to focus on diplomatic solutions and training Iraq's security 
forces so they can take care of themselves and patrol their own 
country. With this escalation, we are just compounding the problem. We 
should concentrate on training the Iraqi security forces. They must 
know that this is not going to be an open-ended situation.

Madam Speaker, my constituents in north Texas continue to grieve the 
loss of their sons and daughters. They are


concerned for our troop safety and they are demanding answers. The war 
is costing us too many lives and too much money, $1 billion a week. At 
an overall cost of $500 billion, we will be paying the cost of this war 
for decades to come.

In my congressional district in Dallas, Texas, our share of the cost 
will be $1 billion. In Dallas this would have provided 400,000 children 
with health care or paid for 23,000 additional police officers. For our 
Nation's 300 million Americans, their share will be $1,300 a piece.

Accountability of Iraq war spending has been appalling. Does there 
exist any accountability? Last week we began the congressional hearings 
regarding contracting fraud. Apparently there is $12 billion 
unaccounted for. Contractors were being paid with large bags of cash.

This is truly an embarrassment and the height of irresponsibility as 
thousands of American children go to bed hungry tonight. Many are 
children of our troops, and now we are talking about spending more 
money and adding more troops. We need to end this, redeployment needs 
to start now.

Madam Speaker, we have before us a bipartisan resolution opposing the 
escalation of troops in Iraq. However, this debate is only the first 
step. The ultimate goal is to bring our troops home safely and swiftly. 
It is time for the President to listen to the American people and his 
advisers and refrain from changing the leadership when they disagree 
with him.

The best way to support our troops serving in Iraq is to say ''no'' 
to the President's escalation of this war. An outstanding general said 
recently that stubbornness cannot be mistaken as leadership and cliches 
cannot be called policy.

I strongly urge my colleagues to support this resolution.