# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `c982e6c137bc43fcbe4d29dc8cb40072`
`Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas â€” 19 June 2007`

---


Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I would like to 
commend the chairman of the Military Construction and Veterans' Affairs 
Appropriations Subcommittee--Congressman Edwards, Chairman Obey, and my 
colleagues for passing the Military Construction and Veterans 
Appropriations for FY 2008.

This bill is the largest increase in veterans funding in the 77-year 
history of the Veterans Administration.

As a result, this measure supports high priority programs such as 
Homeless Veterans Care, Mental Health Care, and Long-Term Care.

As a former psychiatric nurse at the Dallas Veterans Administration 
Hospital, I know firsthand the disparities contributed by lack of 
funding.

I am particularly pleased to see the bill provides increased funding 
for homeless veterans programs, three centers for Centers of Excellence 
for Mental Health and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder to become fully 
operational this year. It also matches the VA's request to fund 
programs for minority contractor procurement and streamlines the VA 
billing system.

The Dallas VA has been a leader in outreach to homeless veterans, who 
comprise almost a fourth of the homeless adults in the Nation.

The North Texas VA Health Care System in Dallas was the first to 
establish a comprehensive homeless program, which helps homeless 
veterans with mental and physical illnesses. Dallas is one of eight 
cities in the country with a veteran's homelessness program targeted 
towards women.



I am also pleased with the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 
FY 08 funding because it includes funds for mental health centers. I 
have continually advocated for increased access to mental health care 
by returning veterans through the science committee.

This bill also grants the Veterans Administration request for 
administrative functions, including operation of Veterans 
Administration Medical Centers, quality of care oversight, 
informational technology--hardware and software, legal services, 
billing, coding activities, and procurement.

Funding for administrative functions is especially important to 
decreasing claims backlog for veterans waiting for disability and other 
benefits by adding more than 1,100 new claims processors. The funding 
also makes five polytrauma centers and three Centers of Excellence for 
Mental Health and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) fully 
operational this year. These centers will afford care for those 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.

Subsequently, sufficient funding for procurement and billing 
activities is in particular important to Dallas, since the Dallas 
Veterans Administration actively encourages large businesses to partner 
with small businesses through subcontracting plans.

This bill makes available resources to support military construction 
projects and ensures America's servicemen and women have more effective 
training facilities, and better housing, health care and day care 
facilities. I would like to take this opportunity to once again commend 
my colleagues, Congressman Edwards and Chairman Obey for providing a 
comprehensive Military Construction and Veterans Appropriations for FY 
2008 possible.
