# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `c9c4767e39db2be509b7bf0ae659e5b8`
`Mr. MURTHA â€” 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. MURTHA. Mr. Speaker, let me explain what is in this bill for the 
Members.

We have $4 billion over the amount requested by the President. The 
President requested a total of $12.1 billion for military personnel pay 
and benefits. The committee recommends increasing the funds for those 
programs by $1.4 billion. The committee adds $1.4 billion to cover the 
full cost of housing allowance for military members in fiscal year 
2007; $2.3 billion to cover the full cost of fielding an additional 
36,000 Army troops.

If everybody here remembers, we added 30,000 troops in the 
supplemental, which the White House did not ask for, argued about, and 
which the Defense Department did not want. And yet now we are short of 
troops, and they are trying to blame the Congress for being short of 
troops.

We also added money for 9,000 additional marines. The committee 
recommends $52.5 billion for military operations, $2.2 billion over the 
President's request.

In addition to fully funding the request for military operations, the 
committee proposes an additional $2.5 billion to address training and 
equipping shortfalls in forces not deployed. We will set up a Reserve 
Readiness fund.

The committee recommends adding funds for the war in Afghanistan, $1 
billion. That is where the original war started, and that is what you 
vote against if you vote against this bill.

$5.9 billion for the Afghanistan Security Forces fund, $3.8 billion 
for the Iraq Security Forces fund, and a total of $2.4 billion is 
recommended for the joint IED task force.

The recommendations propose an increase of $17 million for DOD's 
Family Advocacy program. In other words, all of us hear, when we go 
talk with the families, the problems that they have. We add $17 million 
for that particular fund.

We have three significant reductions. We reduce some of the buys of 
hardware which we think ought to be in the base bill.

The committee bill recommends a total of $24.8 billion for equipment 
purchases, a slight decrease to the President's request of $86 million. 
The committees proposed an allocation of $1.4 billion to purchase what 
they call MRAP vehicles, that is, the vehicles with the V shape, which 
we need so badly. And that is what you are voting against if you vote 
against this bill: $311 million above the request of the White House.

For Army procurement accounts the committee approves a total of $15 
billion: $994 million for tactical radios, $2.2 billion for tactical 
trucks, $867 million for up-armored Humvees, $636 million for Bradley 
fighting vehicle upgrades. And that is what you are voting against if 
you vote against this bill.

The committee bill includes $192 million not requested for three 
additional F/A-18s. We take care of the SEABEEs, something they have 
talked about that have been decimated by this war, and we put equipment 
in for the SEABEEs.

The committee is recommending reductions to several high-profile 
programs requested by the President. We deny funding for two Joint 
Strike Fighter airplanes because they ought to be in the base bill, and 
we will talk about that depending on what they authorize.

The President requested a total of $1.4 billion for research and 
development. The committee recommends a total of $1 billion.

Working capital funds: the committee bill provides a total of $1.3 
billion for working capital.

Now let me talk about defense health programs. We just saw what we 
went through with Walter Reed. Bill Young, who was chairman of the 
committee, and I went out to Walter Reed all the time. I had no idea, 
as most Members didn't, about what was going on at Walter Reed. And it 
really gets to me that every time we went out there, we asked them if 
you needed any help and they always told us everything is all right. We 
put more money in any way because we knew there would be some problems 
come about because of the fact that they were under BRAC. The committee 
decided unanimously to eliminate the closing of Walter Reed, especially 
during the time of war. We put $1.7 billion above the budget request.



The additional funding is for $450 million for post-traumatic stress. 
And that is not near enough, folks. That is not near enough. We figure 
there are going to be 65,000 military people who come back that are 
going to have post-traumatic stress. And that is what you are voting 
against if you vote against this bill.

We put $450 million in for traumatic brain injury care and research; 
$730 million to cover the funding shortfall created by Congress' having 
disapproved the Department's proposal to increase the health insurance 
premiums. And I am for that, but we didn't fund it. But we fund it in 
this bill, and that is what you vote against if you vote against this 
bill.

We put $62 million in for amputee care. Let me tell you something 
about amputee care. I went out to the amputee center in Brooks. Private 
industry put up a place in 18 months; $58 million they raised to put an 
amputee center up. We have been working on an amputee center at Walter 
Reed. It took us 3 years and it is still not built. Jerry Lewis, Bill 
Young, and myself, and it is still not done yet.

We are putting in $12 million for caregivers. The nurses called. They 
said, We have got a real problem here. We see these wounded. We see the 
people coming home all the time. It affects us mentally. It affects us 
emotionally. It affects us psychologically. We need help. So we put $12 
million in; $6 million for Landstuhl, where they get the worst 
casualties; $2 million for Walter Reed; $2 million for Brooks; and $2 
million for the hospital in California.

We put in $14.8 million for burn care. I want to tell you something, 
Members. You can go to all the hospitals. When you go to the burn care 
centers, you see the results of this war. We go to the hospitals. All 
of us go to the hospitals quite often. And let me tell you the burn 
centers are the worst when you go.

Now, we also took out 5 percent on contracting. Now, why did we do 
that? We did that because contractors are falling all over themselves 
and we asked the GAO and we asked the Inspector General of Iraq, How 
many contractors do you have? They couldn't tell us. They said, Help us 
find out how many contractors we have.

So we asked the Under Secretary of Defense. He couldn't tell us. He 
said, I will let you know in a week.

He still hasn't told us. So we took 5 percent out. They will tell us 
now how many contractors they have.

And we fenced 10 percent. So that is $800 million for the 5 percent 
and then $1.6 billion for the contractors to come out. So that is $2.1 
billion we have taken out for the contractors.

We put in for CERP, which is a program in which there is $456 million 
provided under operations and maintenance for the commanders.

No permanent bases we said over and over again. We put in no torture, 
which has caused us so much problem when they didn't have the people 
trained when they were in Abu Ghraib.

Contracting oversight. We have a death gratuity amendment. Military 
attorneys, we put some money in for military attorneys.

Meeting readiness guidelines: let me tell you what we do to meet 
readiness guidelines. When you talk to these families, they need a year 
at home before they are redeployed. Is there anybody that thinks we 
should send these folks back before they have a year at home? Is there 
anybody that thinks we should extend them when they have 13 months in 
country? Is there anybody who thinks we should send troops into combat 
who aren't trained and ready? Is there anybody here?



We put benchmarks in for the Iraqi Government, as the chairman of the 
committee explained, because we need to give them the incentive. We 
need them to have some benchmarks so they understand that they have to 
get this done.

Every time something happens, and this is a problem we have, every 
time something happens, we step in. They started out, they said, with 
80 percent of the people in the Iraqi units deployed in Iraq. Now it is 
50 percent. Where are they? They are on leave. They deserted. They are 
not there. So who makes up the difference? Our troops are the ones 
making up the difference. We have to force the Iraqis to make up the 
difference.

Why are we even thinking about forcing the military to break their 
own guidelines because of this surge? Because of the fact they can't 
sustain the deployment. So the administration has decided, we are going 
to have to send people back with less than a year at home.

We are going to send people back that aren't trained and ready? That 
is unacceptable. That is unacceptable to every single Member of 
Congress. We have an obligation to the taxpayer under the Constitution 
to take care of defense.

We have an obligation to have oversight and auditing and 
accountability. We have had 14 hearings so far. We will have at least 
40 more hearings before we have the base bill. I am going to put you on 
notice right now, the supplemental, the 2008 supplemental, is not going 
to come up with the base bill. The 2008 supplemental is going to be 
held, because we are going to see if there is going to be progress in 
this country before we bring up the 2008 supplemental. We are going to 
see if what they say is true. We are going to find out if this 
administration is giving us the facts.

We have said to them under the Moran amendment, you have to tell us 
how much oil production there is. Oil production is below prewar level. 
Electricity production is below prewar level. Unemployment is 60 
percent.

Incidents have doubled since I spoke out here a year-and-a-half ago. 
Doubled. There are now 1,200 a week. And when I say ''incidents,'' I am 
talking about 140,000 troops deployed to Iraq, individually. I heard 
Elizabeth Edwards the other day talk about breast cancer, before she 
knew it had come back, and she said to me, there is 40,000 people that 
have breast cancer every year, but it is one at a time.

What we are talking about are troops, 140,000 troops, one at a time; 
140,000 troops with families; 140,000 troops that have wives and 
husbands and mothers and fathers that have to suffer during these 
deployments.

When you go to the hospital, you see figures. Don't think when you 
say you see 2,500 people who have been killed, 3,000 have been killed 
or 25,000 have been wounded. It is individuals that have been wounded, 
individuals that have been killed, and those families are suffering.

We have to put some benchmarks so the Iraqis, they have civil war, we 
have to put benchmarks in this bill so the Iraqis start to do it 
themselves, and the Americans aren't forced to make up the difference, 
but they do it themselves.