# MAJORITY MAKERS
## `c9dbfd260814015c148800a882624f7c`
`Mr. COURTNEY â€” 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Thank you, Congressman Sutton, for yielding.

And I just want to follow up with my friend from the Armed Services 
Committee about the lack of strategic balance that presently is 
occurring right now in Iraq and Afghanistan. In late August, German 
authorities arrested three terrorists who were plotting a major attack 
on an American military installation in Germany. Where were they 
trained? Well, we know the answer. They were trained in northern 
Pakistan, in that region of the world where our own military and 
intelligence officials have identified the real threat to Europe and 
the U.S. in terms of where future hits are going to take place.

As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I was in Afghanistan in 
May. We had briefings from military commanders over there who have said 
that training camps are in full level of activity, and they made a flat 
prediction that we are going to see attempted attacks emanating from 
that region of the world.

Let's step back. We have 26,000 troops in Afghanistan; 165,000 troops 
in Iraq. Is this a strategy that is really aimed at what is in the 
national interest of this country? I mean obviously if we look at just 
recent events in terms of where arrests are taking place, where the 
real training is taking place to hit Europe and the U.S., the fact of 
the matter is it is in the northern part of Pakistan, which is an area 
that the Taliban is now pretty much able to move and operate unimpeded 
because we have a dysfunctional relationship with the Pakistani 
Government and the Afghan Government is too weak to basically police 
those borders.

And I think a lot of the debate that is taking place right now after 
the Petraeus-Crocker report, which is appropriately focused on whether 
or not the benchmarks that the Iraq Government set forth have been met 
and what is the level of wear and tear in terms of our Armed Forces, 
they are clearly important to discuss, but we also need to have an 
overall strategic vision about what is in the national interest of this 
country. And the fact is being involved at the level that we are at 
right now in a civil war in Iraq is not in America's national interest, 
and for the sake of our military families, as Congresswoman Shea-Porter 
indicated, and certainly for a safer, smarter foreign policy, we need 
to have a change in course and a redeployment.

Over the summer the New York Times did a study on the situation right 
now in terms of the mid-level officer corps of our Armed Services, our 
ground forces. In the 2001 graduating class from West Point, which just 
completed their 5-year tour of duty, 44 percent of the class have left 
the Armed Forces. That is the highest number in three decades. People 
need to think about that in terms of what is happening to the best and 
the brightest in our military. They are voting with their feet. They 
are leaving the armed services. And many commanders from the Vietnam 
era, General Shinseki being one of them, the Army chief of staff who 
had the wisdom and vision to predict that we would need hundreds of 
thousands of troops if we were going to truly police Iraq after 
Afghanistan, have spoken all across the country about the fact that 
what's happening in Iraq today is having the same effect, same negative 
effect, on our Armed Forces that the war in Vietnam had, which is a 
hollowed-out mid-level officer corps of our armed services. It took a 
generation to recover from that, and we are now seeing, with the exodus 
that is happening right now with, again, the best and brightest of our 
West Point graduates leaving our armed services, that we, for the sake 
of our own future, ground forces and military readiness, need to have a 
change of course in Iraq.

And Senator Webb has an amendment that's coming up, the Dwell Time 
Amendment, which will require the Armed Forces by law to make sure that 
our Armed Forces have the same amount of dwell time as they do 
deployment. I think that is an important step. I am very excited that 
it looks like we are going to get to the 60-vote number in the Senate 
and overcome a cloture, that we are going to start bringing some sanity 
back into our military and defense policy so that we don't destroy the 
greatest warfighting machine in the world.

And I know Congressman Welch from Vermont, my neighbor to the north 
and a good Red Sox fan, is also someone who has talked a lot about this 
issue in terms of the impact on our military families, and I would be 
happy to hear from Congressman Welch from Vermont.