# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `c9ff618001e83ce3dc4bdc1799623292`
`Mr. BIDEN â€” 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I would like to take the opportunity today 
to introduce an important piece of legislation to improve the ability 
of the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
provide medical care for our Nation's Armed Forces and veterans. We are 
currently finishing up a debate in the Senate on additional war time 
funding for Iraq. As in past years, we are trying to mitigate the 
damage caused by the failure to properly plan for and manage the 
aftermath of Saddam Hussein's fall. I have spoken many times about how 
damaging this lack of planning has been to our efforts in Iraq and to 
our standing in the world.

For the past two months, the spotlight has shone on another 
administration failure in this war: the shameful conditions our wounded 
soldiers face as outpatients navigating the military health system when 
they return from Iraq or Afghanistan. This is another example of gross 
mismanagement and a strained system. To alleviate the strain on this 
system, I am offering legislation today--the Effective Care for the 
Armed Forces and Veterans Act--to improve the care that members of the 
Armed Forces and veterans receive at Walter Reed and other military 
medical facilities.

The purpose of this legislation is to ensure that some of the reasons 
for concern at Walter Reed do not occur in the future. As the living 
conditions for outpatients at Walter Reed Army Medical Center indicate, 
moving to private contracts for maintenance at military medical 
facilities can cause problems. After a private contract was awarded for 
maintenance and upkeep of buildings on the campus of Walter Reed Army 
Medical Center, a maintenance crew of approximately 300 was whittled 
down to 50 by the time the contract went in to effect. Many of the 
terrible living conditions in Building 18 that we read about in the 
Washington Post were a direct result of delays in building repair and 
maintenance because of a shortage in manpower. To prevent this 
situation from occurring again, this legislation calls for public-
private competitions of maintenance services at military medical 
complexes to stop while our country is engaged in military conflicts. 
It also calls for a General Accountability Office review of 
contracting-out decisions for basic maintenance work at military 
facilities.

Other problems discovered at Walter Reed are directly attributable to 
shortages resulting from pressures to cut budgets for military medical 
services. These cuts cannot be tolerated at a time when military 
medical services are needed to treat servicemembers who have been 
wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan. As such, this legislation would 
require medical command budgets to be equal to or exceed the prior year 
amount while the nation is involved in a major military conflict or 
war.

Another issue that the conditions at Walter Reed brought up is 
whether or not the facility should be closed as the Base Realignment 
and Closure Commission recommended. The Commission recommended building 
new, modern facilities at the National Naval Medical Center at Bethesda 
and at Fort Belvoir to improve the overall quality of care and access 
to care in this region. Military leaders have indicated that the 
planned closure has limited their ability to attract needed 
professionals to jobs at Walter Reed and there have been concerns 
raised whether adequate housing for the families of the wounded has 
been properly planned. To deal with that, this legislation requires the 
Department of Defense to submit to Congress within one year a detailed 
plan that includes an evaluation of the following: the desirability of 
being able to guarantee professional jobs in the D.C. area for two 
years or more following the closure in order to foster a stable 
workforce; detailed construction plans for the new facilities and for 
new family housing; and the costs and benefits of building all of the 
needed medical treatment, rehabilitation, and housing before a single 
unit is moved.

Another major problem and source of frustration for injured soldiers 
is the length of time it takes to receive a disability determination. 
In order to hasten the disability determination process, we need to 
ensure that the Department of Defense has information systems capable 
of communicating with those in the Department of Veterans Affairs. The 
VA has been a leader in implementing electronic medical record keeping, 
but we have to improve the capability of the Department of Defense to 
send electronic medical records to the VA to speed up the disability 
determination process. Making the disability determination system more 
efficient can reduce the stress on the soldiers and their families 
going through the determination process.

Caseworkers are also critical. They schedule appointments and make 
sure wounded servicemembers get the rehabilitative and follow-up care 
they need. As more and more soldiers and marines come home wounded, 
many military caseworkers are overwhelmed. To improve the care given to 
servicemembers, this legislation requires a minimum ratio of case 
managers to patients of 1 to 20, that case managers have contact with 
recovering servicemembers at least once a week, and that case managers 
be properly trained on the military's disability and discharge systems 
so they can better assist patients with their paperwork.

Currently, many combat veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan 
have service-related mental health issues like post-traumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD) and traumatic brain injury (TBI). Many have labeled TBI 
the ''signature injury'' of the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts. It is 
estimated that as many as 10 percent of those serving or who have 
served in Iraq and Afghanistan have brain injuries. That


would mean about 150,000 of the 1.5 million soldiers and marines who 
have served in Operation Enduring Freedom or Operation Iraqi Freedom 
have suffered a brain injury. In many cases, these injuries are not 
diagnosed because there is not an external wound. Depending on the 
severity of these injuries, returning soldiers can require immediate 
treatment or not have symptoms show up until several years later. This 
legislation calls for every returning soldier to be screened for TBI. 
While the VA has announced plans to do this, it needs to happen in 
active-duty military medical facilities too. In addition, the 
legislation calls for a study on the advisability of treating TBI as a 
presumptive condition in every service's disability evaluation system, 
as well as the VA disability evaluation system.

We often hear about the 25,000 soldiers and marines who have been 
wounded in these wars--but that figure grossly underestimates the 
demand that the VA health care system faces. Since our country was 
attacked on September 11, 2001, more than 1.5 million soldiers have 
been deployed to Afghanistan, Iraq, and other locations. Of these, 
630,000 are now veterans and, according to the Department of Defense, 
more than 205,000 have already received medical treatment through the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. A recent Harvard study on the long-term 
costs of treating these new veterans estimates that by 2012 more than 
643,000 veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan will be using the VA system, 
an almost three-fold increase of what the system faces now. With a 
significant backlog of claims currently existing, the system is in 
desperate need of an upgrade. To address this concern, my legislation 
directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress a plan 
for the long-term care needs for veterans for the next 50 years.

It is our highest obligation to heal the hundreds of thousands of 
brave men and women who will bear the physical and emotional scars of 
these wars for the rest of their lives. Those of us who have the 
privilege of serving in Congress must act now to improve the medical 
care we provide to our Armed Forces and veterans.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the legislation be printed 
in the Record.