# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `ca661602a401cc0cb798555826632586`
`Ms. LEE of California â€” 2 April 2009`

---


Ms. LEE of California. Madam Chair, let me just say that I rise today 
in strong support of the Congressional Progressive Caucus budget 
substitute, and I want to commend Congresswoman Woolsey and Congressman 
Grijalva--co-chairs of the CPC--and their staffs for their very hard 
and tireless work on this great budget.

Budgets are not only fiscal documents; they are moral documents. They 
reflect our Nation's values and priorities. For example, in our budget, 
we redeploy all of our troops and contractors out of Iraq, and we cap 
the tax deductibility of excessive CEO pay. That totals about $120 
billion in our budget. Our budget, however, puts $120 billion a year 
into health care for all Americans. Those are our values.

The CPC budget provides critical relief to those who are suffering 
during this economic crisis. It revitalizes our economy, and it cuts 
poverty in half in 10 years. We eliminate waste, fraud and abuse at the 
Pentagon, and we eliminate Cold War era weapons systems to the tune of 
about $60 billion a year. Smart security is also a critical component 
of this budget, and we must use this in places like Afghanistan where 
we know that there is clearly no military solution.

I was concerned about that reality on September 14, 2001 when I voted 
against the military authorization to provide a blank check for endless 
wars, and I still remain unpersuaded today that sending more troops to 
Afghanistan will actually advance our national security interests. We 
must be a Nation committed to exercising the tools of smart security 
for the 21st century, and this budget puts us on that path.