# SSI EXTENSION FOR ELDERLY AND DISABLED REFUGEES ACT
## `caa743a5e57f02c32bb36041864894a4`
`Mr. WELLER of Illinois â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. WELLER of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I 
may consume.

This bipartisan legislation that we are considering today, the SSI 
Extension for Elderly and Disabled Refugees Act, increases the amount 
of time that certain low-income disabled and aged immigrants can 
continue to receive Supplemental Security Income, SSI benefits, from 7 
to 9 years. These are individuals legally allowed in the United States 
for humanitarian reasons after fleeing persecution and suffering in 
their own countries. The approximately 28,000 individuals assisted by 
this legislation include refugees, asylees and Cuban/Haitian entrants 
from around the world.

To gain access to permanent eligibility for SSI and all other 
benefits and freedoms afforded to Americans, legal refugees and asylees 
are eligible to become U.S. citizens through the naturalization process 
now administered by the Department of Homeland Security. However, as 
many Members have heard from constituents, this process does not always 
move forward in a timely manner for a number of reasons.

For instance, a letter I recently received from the Sargent Shriver 
National Center on Poverty Law in Illinois outlines a case in which an 
elderly Jewish refugee couple from the former Soviet Union working to 
become citizens encountered problems of lost paperwork and the need to 
have fingerprints retaken time and time again. A recent Washington Post 
story noted that as of March of 2007, this spring, nearly 1.3 million 
individuals were in the Department of Homeland Security citizenship 
application backlog, and 330,000 cases were in the FBI background check 
backlog.

Recognizing the likelihood of ongoing issues in the naturalization 
process, this legislation provides up to one extra year of eligibility, 
for a total of up to 10 years, for those refugees and asylees needing 
more time to complete the naturalization process. This is an important 
provision as it emphasizes the relative temporary nature of SSI 
eligibility for newly arrived legal refugees and asylees, while 
encouraging them to pursue citizenship so that they may fully 
participate in our Nation's democracy.

As with the other features of this legislation that relate to 
eligibility for SSI benefits, this provision is effective from fiscal 
year 2008 through 2010. So a future Congress must reexamine whether 
these provisions are working as intended, including providing refugees 
and related individuals who are playing by the rules and applying for 
citizenship, sufficient time to go through that process without losing 
access to these important benefits.

These additional SSI benefits are paid for through a provision that 
will reduce Federal income tax refunds to better recover unemployment 
benefit overpayments that resulted from fraud. Tax refund offsets 
already occur for delinquent child support payments and certain other 
debts owed to the Federal Government, and this simply allows the 
current process to work in recovering unemployment benefit 
overpayments.

The Congressional Budget Office estimates this permanent change will 
more than pay for the additional SSI benefits provided in this bill. 
This is sound policy and builds on proposals included in recent Bush 
administration budget proposals.

The Ways and Means Committee, and in particular the Income Security 
and Family Support Subcommittee, on which I serve as ranking member, 
has


long been active in developing legislation to combat fraud and abuse 
involving unemployment and other benefits. I'm pleased to see we are 
continuing that effort with this legislation.

For example, in 2004, under the leadership of former chairman Wally 
Herger, we passed provisions to stop the illegal manipulation of State 
unemployment taxes. We also allowed State unemployment plans to use 
information in the National Directory of New Hires to help prevent 
unemployment benefit overpayments. Today's legislation builds on those 
efforts, and I am proud to support it.

I would also note that this legislation is supported by a long list 
of faith-based and other community groups, including many who assist 
refugees in their efforts to become citizens. That list includes the 
Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, the Sargent Shriver National Center on 
Poverty Law, Lutheran Social Services of America, and Catholic 
Charities USA, among many, many other groups.

I would also note I received a letter of support from the Social 
Security Administration endorsing this bipartisan bill, and I will 
include the letters of support in the Record.

Finally, I would also like to recognize the efforts of my friend and 
colleague, Representative Phil English of Pennsylvania who, among many 
others, has worked diligently to see that these sorts of changes occur, 
including by introducing bills to this same goal and effect.

I encourage all Members to join me in supporting this bipartisan 
legislation.



























June 28, 2007.



 Dear Representative, Representing a diverse cross-section 


 of organizations from across the country, we write to you 


 today to ask that you support H.R. 2608--the ''SSI Extension 


 for Elderly and Disabled Refugees Act.'' This bipartisan bill 


 is a critical lifeline to thousands of elderly and disabled 


 refugees who are about to lose, or have already lost, their 


 Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits due to the 


 arbitrary seven-year time limit to which their eligibility is 


 limited.



 This bill, introduced by Representatives Jim McDermott (D-


 7th WA) and Jerry Weller (R-11th IL), Chair and Ranking 


 Member, respectively, of the Ways & Means Subcommittee on 


 Income Security and Family Support, will provide a two-year 


 extension of SSI eligibility for elderly and disabled 


 refugees, as well as a provision to cover those who lost 


 benefits prior to enactment of the legislation. The bill will 


 also ensure that refugees who are making efforts to become 


 citizens, but are caught up in the processing backlogs 


 through no fault of their own, are given additional time to 


 naturalize. H.R. 2608 will provide vital relief to thousands 


 of refugees who have already fallen into extreme destitution.



 The number of people who are losing their life-sustaining 


 SSI benefits, in large part due to delays in the immigration 


 system beyond their control, is climbing. The Social Security 


 Administration currently projects that 50,000 elderly and 


 disabled refugees will face extreme hardship and destitution 


 by 2012 due to the suspension of their SSI benefits. These 


 individuals fled persecution or torture in countries such as 


 Iran, Russia, Iraq, Vietnam and Somalia, and now are too 


 elderly or disabled to support themselves.



 As more and more people begin to reach the end of their 


 seven-year eligibility period, the human impact of this 


 restrictive time limit has become increasingly dire and all 


 the more intolerable. Some will lose health insurance as 


 well, because SSI and Medicaid eligibility are typically 


 linked. Among those who have already lost SSI benefits is a 


 Jewish elderly couple from the former Soviet Union; the 


 husband is deaf and the wife suffers from heart disease. 


 However, this restriction does not affect only the elderly, 


 as illustrated by the case of a 16-year-old Iranian boy with 


 mental retardation, autism, seizures, and severe macrocephaly 


 who lost his SSI benefits and Medicaid health insurance due 


 to the seven-year time limit. These are only but two of the 


 thousands of heartbreaking stories that we will continue to 


 be confronted with unless Congress acts now to lengthen the 


 insufficient eligibility period for this extremely vulnerable 


 population.



 The crisis is already upon us. Each and every month, 


 elderly and disabled refugees are losing their lifeline of 


 support. With the exception of West Virginia, no state is 


 left untouched by this arbitrary time limit. Some 4,500 


 people will lose their SSI benefits in fiscal year 2007 


 alone. This bill enjoys bipartisan support, builds on similar 


 proposals in recent Bush Administration budgets, and contains 


 a savings provision that will cover the modest cost of the 


 extension. Given the urgency of the situation and the life-


 threatening consequences that these individuals face, we 


 strongly urge you to support the passage of H.R. 2608 this 


 year. We are hopeful that Congress will act quickly and 


 decisively to prevent the unnecessary hardship that this 


 already-victimized population stands to suffer. Thank you for 


 your consideration.





 Respectfully,

















National





American Academy of HIV; American Association of Homes and 


 Services for the Aging; American Association of Jews from the 


 Former USSR, Inc; American Association of People with 


 Disabilities; American Federation of State, County and 


 Municipal Employees; American Friends Service Committee; 


 American Jewish Committee; American Network of Community 


 Options and Resources; American Occupational Therapy 


 Association; Americans for Democratic Action, Inc; Asian 


 American Justice Center; Asian Americans for Equality; 


 Association of Jewish Family & Children's Agencies (AJFCA); 


 Boat People SOS; Break the Chain Campaign; Campaign for 


 Working Families; Catholic Charities USA; Center for Civil 


 Justice; and Disability Navigators Inc.



 EESA-Eastern European Service Agency; Gay Men's Health 


 Crisis; Hispanic Coalition; HIV Medicine Association; 


 HIVictorious, Inc.; Hmong National Development, Inc.; 


 Immigrant and Refugee Rights Program, Washington Lawyers' 


 Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs; Institute for 


 Peace and Justice; Institute for Social and Economic 


 Development (ISED); International AIDS Empowerment; 


 International District Housing Alliance; International Rescue 


 Committee; International Service Center; Jewish Council for 


 Public Affairs; Jubilee Campaign USA Inc; Justice, Peace & 


 Integrity of Creation Office of the Wheaton Franciscans; 


 Living Room, Inc; Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service 


 (LIRS); Lutheran Services in America; 9to5, National 


 Association of Working Women.



 National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good 


 Shepherd; National Asian Pacific Center on Aging; National 


 Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development; 


 National Council of Jewish Women; National Council on Aging; 


 National Immigration Forum; National Immigration Law Center; 


 National Korean American Service & Education Consortium 


 (NAKASEC); National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty; 


 National Priorities Project; National Senior Citizens Law 


 Center; National Women's Law Center; NETWORK: A National 


 Catholic Social Justice Lobby; New Sudan Generation; 


 Northwest Health Law Advocates; Northwest Immigrant Rights 


 Project; Progressive Jewish Alliance; Religious Action Center 


 of Reform Judaism; and RESULTS.



 Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law; Sisters of 


 Mercy of the Americas; Southeast Asia Resource Action Center 


 (SEARAC); The AIDS Institute; The Arc of the United States; 


 The Coalition on Human Needs; The Leadership Conference of 


 Women Religious; The National Asian Pacific American Women's 


 Forum; The Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children; 


 The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring; U.S. Committee for 


 Refugees and Immigrants; Unitarian Universalist Association 


 of Congregations; United Cerebral Palsy; United Jewish 


 Communities; United Methodist Church, General Board of Church 


 and Society; USAction; Wider Opportunities for Women; Women 


 of Reform Judaism; Women of Reform Judaism; World Relief; and 