# None
## `cb15d3c1530aa6fde8e53cfba3f1dbe3`
`Mr. ISSA â€” 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. ISSA. Thank you, Mr. Ranking Member.

Mr. Speaker, the chairman of this committee cannot have it both ways. 
And the Speaker of the House cannot have it both ways. In their blind 
hatred for this administration and the President, they would have you 
believe on Tuesday of last week that you must believe the Ministry of 
Interior in Iraq and you must believe that the veterans, now serving 
for Blackwater, murdered in cold blood 17 Iraqis who were unarmed, 
defenseless, simply for the sport of it. On Tuesday, that is what Erik 
Prince had to deal with on the orders of Speaker Pelosi and dealt out 
by Chairman Waxman.

That was Tuesday. By Thursday, we were looking at what we see here 
today, that the administration was covering up so much corruption, 
particularly the corruption of the Ministry of Interior. Mr. Speaker, I 
am going to vote for this resolution not because it is flawless. It has 
its understandable flaws. But I am going to vote for it because in the 
whereases it says, whereas, the independent commission on security 
forces of Iraq chaired by General James L. Jones (Retired) reported on 
September 6, 2007 that ''sectarianism and corruption are pervasive in 
the Ministry of Interior and cripple the ministry's ability to 
accomplish its mission.''

It goes on and on to make the point I am making, just as the majority 
has already made, Mr. Speaker, and that is that in order to believe 
that combat veterans, special forces veterans, Green Berets and special 
forces SEALS now out of the military and out of harm's way in Iraq 
working for Blackwater, in order to believe that they murdered in cold 
blood defenseless civilians at an intersection just for sport just 
after a bomb went off, you would have had to believe the Minister of 
Interior. And Mr. Waxman would have had the committee believe that on 
Tuesday. But by Thursday, of course, we have the coverup of such 
rampant corruption. Yet in the very, very resolution, we have an 
independent commission headed by a distinguished former general say, in 
no uncertain terms, there is rampant and widespread corruption. That 
has not been taken back by the administration.

Mr. Speaker, what I would say is Mr. Waxman and the Speaker of the 
House, Nancy Pelosi, cannot have it both ways. They cannot go after our 
troops in harm's way, our contractors serving in those capacities 
similar, most of them, if not all of them veterans, they cannot 
denounce every aspect of this war, how we got there and when we go 
there and then say, but this group is so corrupt we must leave.

The previous speaker, Mr. Speaker, went out of his way to say the 
third from the bottom in corruption is Iraq, never mentioning that 
Burma was below that. Burma managed to be one of the two at the very 
bottom. Mr. Speaker, would the majority have us pull out our 
representation and support in Burma and leave to those who are already 
the victims of corruption an even more corrupt government? Or would 
they, given that this administration in their view is not doing enough, 
say, We should do more, we should engage, we should spend the money 
insisting on transparency and reform?

Mr. Speaker, I am voting for this resolution because, in fact, I 
believe the majority and the minority should agree that there is 
corruption, corruption so widespread in Iraq for the Minister of 
Interior to frame men and women in harm's way in order to get them out 
of the way. I do not want this body and this Congress to be a party to 
framing Americans who are putting their lives on the line as patriots 
in Iraq.

I ask that people support it on both sides, not because Mr. Waxman 
isn't trying to have it both ways, but because, in fact, there is 
corruption in Iraq, and hopefully, at some point, he will begin to 
believe loyal Americans over those very corrupt entities that he 
denounces in other parts of his resolution.