# None
## `cb36a21fc5b67ceeabdf10463458f664`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 3 April 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise this morning to speak about a young 
man from my home region of northeastern Pennsylvania who lost his life 
in the war in Iraq, 1LT Michael J. Cleary of Dallas, PA. He was born 
April 4, 1981, and we are thinking of him today for so many reasons, 
not the least of which is a birthday tomorrow. I want to provide 
somewhat of a biographical sketch, and then talk a little bit about his 
life.

Michael Cleary was a graduate of Dallas High School in Luzerne 
County, PA, in June of 1999. He was captain of two teams there, both 
soccer and tennis. He was an active member of so many organizations, 
including a proud member of the National Honor Society. He had 
opportunities at several colleges, but he chose Hamilton College in the 
State of New York. While at Hamilton, he participated in varsity soccer 
and received letters in varsity tennis. He was the chapter president of 
the Sigma Phi fraternity. And despite all of his college and academic 
interests, he also had a feeling in his heart for his country, and he 
wanted to serve. He wanted to enlist in special forces immediately 
after the attacks of September 11 but chose to follow the advice of his 
mother--which for all of us is the right thing to do--and she urged him 
to stay in school and to complete his studies.

He did that, and he graduated in May of 2003 with honors from the 
economics program. Ultimately, his dream was fulfilled when he joined 
the military. Unfortunately, he lost his life in December of 2005. His 
military decorations include the following: the Combat Action Badge, 
the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, the Army Commendation Medal, the Air 
Force Commendation Medal, the Army Achievement Medal, the Good Conduct 
Medal, and three campaign medals.

It is hard to describe in a short amount of time, even in a writeup 
in the newspaper, as local papers did at that time, but probably the 
best way to encapsulate what Michael Cleary's life has meant to this 
country is to remember the words of Abraham Lincoln when he talked 
about the sacrifice of our soldiers. When he spoke about the battle of 
Gettysburg, he spoke of those who gave the last full measure of 
devotion to their country. We now can say that about so many of our 
young men and women who fought in Iraq, and one of them was Michael 
Cleary. He indeed gave the last full measure of devotion to the country 
he loved.

He didn't have to do it. He had a great career ahead of him because 
of his academic achievements and because of his leadership qualities. 
He could have pursued another path, but he chose to give back. He chose 
to sacrifice for his country, knowing full well that he could be asked 
by God to give the last full measure of devotion, and he did.

We are thinking of his family today for so many reasons, not the 
least of which is that First Lieutenant Cleary was the fourth 
generation of that family to serve his country. His father, Jack 
Cleary, was a decorated Army veteran from the Vietnam war, and then two 
generations before that. So this is a family who has sacrificed in 
generation after generation, and we are thinking of them today. 
Tomorrow, they should have been able to celebrate Michael's birthday, 
which would have been his 27th birthday, but they cannot. They are 
strong people. They understand the sacrifice he made, and we are 
thinking about them this morning and tomorrow and on so many other 
days.

I think sometimes it is very difficult for us to fully comprehend--
those of us who have not had a close family member lost in combat--what 
this means to a family, what it means to a community such as 
northeastern Pennsylvania, in Luzerne County, even years later now. It 
is difficult because in so many parts of our State, as is true of the 
whole country, when we lose one soldier, especially in a small town, in 
a smaller community, the impact is devastating. And not only the 
initial impact of that, but months and years later.

I think it is important we don't just look back and remember and pay 
tribute to the day they died and to the sacrifice they made, as 
important as that is, but we should be remembering, as well, their 
life, their life of achievement and triumph, and their life of service 
because when these families look back on these young people, they are 
not just going to remember their service in the military. Family 
members know our fighting men and women weren't born into divisions and 
platoons. They weren't born with a uniform on; they were born into 
families--families of mothers and fathers and brothers and sisters and 
aunts and uncles and cousins and friends and so many others we all know 
are part of all of our families. So I think it is important to remember 
these young men and women, to the extent that we can, on their birthday 
or some other significant moment in their life.

Finally, let me say this: The news article I cited from December of 
2005 talked about the plans Michael Cleary had to be married to Erin 
Kavanagh. I will not review the whole article, but suffice it to say 
that it is a powerful story of what one soldier's hopes and dreams 
were--to serve his country but to come home and then start a new life 
and to be married. So we are remembering her as well today and 
remembering they graduated together from Dallas High School in that 
year of 1999.

We are grateful this day in so many ways, but it is difficult to 
fully explain how grateful we are for his life of service and 
sacrifice, his life of courage and commitment, and his life which was 
focused on the future, his own future but also the future of our 
country. So tomorrow, as his family celebrates his birthday, we are 
remembering Michael J. Cleary at this time, and we wish for him and for 
his family all of God's blessings.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.