# None
## `cb973e5aca43fa969454733ea143adff`
`Mr. BYRD â€” 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I intend to support the amendment being 
offered by the Senator from Wisconsin. While I fully support the 
addition of the $31 billion in funding for the war in Afghanistan and 
for troop protection, I cannot support the President's demands that 
funding be given to him with no strings attached so that he may keep 
some 130,000 or more troops in Iraq for a sixth year. Risking the lives 
of more soldiers to try to win a


bad bet on Iraq represents a terrible injustice to our brave fighting 
men and women. Just a little more time, the President says, just a 
little more money, and the quagmire that is Iraq will be transformed.

The President has made clear that if he has his way, U.S. troops 
would still be in Iraq decades hence. What a statement by a U.S. 
President. What a deadly bankrupt legacy to leave. 2007 has already 
been the most deadly year in Iraq in terms of U.S. deaths since the 
invasion began, and the year is not yet over. The number of U.S. deaths 
has reached 3,890, and the number of wounded has surpassed 28,000. The 
Iraqi Government has not passed any of the legislative benchmarks that 
would indicate progress toward national reconciliation.

The economic rebuilding of Iraq continues to lag, financed by U.S. 
taxpayer dollars and marked by waste, fraud, and abuse. Oil production 
is sputtering and shortages of basics such as electricity and water 
continue unabated, despite the boondoggle that this war has been for 
private contractors. Evidence of ethnic cleansing is growing, as Sunnis 
are forced out of Shia areas and vice versa. The Iraqi Army and police 
forces remain riddled with sectarianism. U.S. forces continue to carry 
the bulk of the security burden, and while U.S. forces remain in Iraq, 
there is little incentive for the Iraqis to assume that duty.

Some have pointed to recent tactical successes and the reduction of 
violence in certain areas of Iraq as justification for continuing the 
occupation of Iraq. But the prowess of our troops was never in 
question. They have been given a job to do, and they do it with bravery 
and skill. The important question--the only true measure of our efforts 
in Iraq--is whether those tactical successes somehow add up to progress 
toward a lasting political solution. That progress has failed to 
materialize.

It is time for a change in Iraq. It is time to limit the U.S. 
military mission in Iraq and bring the bulk of our troops home. It is 
time to seriously engage our allies and the nations of the Middle East 
on Iraqi security issues. It is time to restore the reputation of the 
great United States of America by returning to the policies that made 
the United States an example to inspire the world, a beacon of economic 
prosperity, a showcase of humanitarian ideals, and benevolent 
assistance to people in their hour of need. It is time to shed our 
image as invaders and occupiers of other nations, using mercenary 
forces to expand our reach. It is time to unequivocally reject the 
notion that America condones torture. For most of my lifetime--and it 
has been a long one already--the world looked to the United States 
first when help was needed. Now, the world wonders which nation America 
will invade next. How far we have fallen.

The administration has used emergency proclamations and stop-loss 
orders to effect a back-door draft that keeps soldiers in the military, 
even though their terms of service have been completed. Meanwhile, the 
needs of our own Nation go wanting, as important equipment that could 
be used for domestic disasters is shipped off to Iraq, and our National 
Guardsmen, the first responders in emergencies, sit in the sands--the 
hot sands--of the Middle East.

I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote in favor of 
this amendment and, thus, reaffirm our resolve to alter our disastrous 
course in Iraq. To vote for this amendment is to vote for our troops 
and to begin a reasonable new policy for Iraq. To vote for this 
amendment is to begin to reassert the constitutional role of the 
Congress as the people's check on the Executive, using the most 
powerful tool there ever was and ever will be in the congressional 
arsenal--the power of the purse. To vote for this amendment is to show 
the American people we are listening to them.

Keeping our troops in harm's way in support of a misbegotten war and 
a failed strategy is not patriotism. We must not roll the dice again, 
recklessly risking American lives and American treasure. It is time--
time--time--for a change.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.