# HELPING FAMILIES SAVE THEIR HOMES ACT OF 2009
## `cba6585747f97c61df85b4da71b34c97`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 1 May 2009`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I have come to speak about the subject of 
energy, but before I do that, I wish to speak about the issue of Roxana 
Saberi and the fact that she sits this morning in a 10-foot by 10-foot 
cell in Evin Prison just outside of Tehran, Iran.

Let me describe, as I have previously done so, this young woman. This 
is a picture of Roxana Saberi. She was born and raised and educated in 
Fargo, North Dakota. Her father came to this country from the country 
of Iran about 35 years ago. As a result, Roxana, born and raised in 
this country, is an American citizen. However, her father was an 
Iranian citizen and has Iranian citizenship. Thus, this young woman is 
considered an Iranian citizen as well.

Let me tell you a bit about her. She was an all-star scholar, an all-
star athlete. She graduated from high school in Fargo, North Dakota. 
She got a bachelor's degree. She competed in the Miss North Dakota 
Pageant and was Miss North Dakota. She competed in the Miss America 
Pageant and was one of the 10 finalists in the pageant. She went to 
Northwestern University and got a master's degree at Northwestern 
University. She then went to Cambridge, England, and in Cambridge 
received a master's degree in international studies. She worked for a 
television station in North Dakota in the middle of all of that. Later, 
she went to Iran because she was very interested in her heritage. While 
in Iran, she reported for National Public Radio and BBC in England. She 
reported for those entities and many others.

At the end of January of this year, she was arrested by the Iranian 
authorities and put in prison. She was arrested, presumably for 
purchasing a bottle of wine. They threw her in prison. She was there 
incommunicado, unable to communicate with anyone for a good long while. 
She was later told her arrest was not for purchasing a bottle of wine 
but, rather, for reporting without a license--being a reporter and 
reporting without a license.

She was finally allowed about a 1-minute telephone call to her 
parents in the United States. Then she was allowed to see an attorney. 
Then they held a very brief, closed-door trial in Tehran, Iran and 
found her guilty, sentencing her to eight years in prison for 
espionage.

The Iranian Government went from purchasing a bottle of wine which 
justified her arrest and detention in prison, to reporting without a 
license, to espionage, and to an 8-year prison sentence. Today, Roxana 
Saberi sits in a 10-foot by 10-foot cell with two other women in that 
prison.

I visited this week with the Swiss Ambassador to Iran, who came to 
this country and stopped in to see me. The reason I mention the Swiss 
Ambassador is because we do not have an embassy in Iran nor do we have 
an ambassador there. We do not have diplomatic relations with this 
country, so the Swiss Embassy is our protectorate. So we have an 
intercessor. They have been working with us to talk with the Iranian 
officials.

This is an unbelievable miscarriage of justice and needs to be 
rectified. The fact is, the Iranian officials should understand that 
they have detained this young journalist and thrown her in prison. They 
have charged her with espionage and sentenced her to eight years in 
prison, thus the spotlight of the world is on them. Their credibility 
is at stake.

I hope the Iranian officials will do the right thing: release her 
from prison and allow her to leave the country of Iran. It is past 
time, long past the time for them to make the right judgment. They have 
made a number of wrong judgments in recent weeks and months. This young 
woman has been in prison since the end of January. It is a complete 
miscarriage of justice. For them


to charge her with being a spy and find her guilty of espionage is 
almost unbelievable. They know better than that. I call on the Iranian 
Government to release her from prison and allow her to leave the 
country of Iran.

Most governments in the world have now communicated with the country 
of Iran about this case. I hope we will not have to be talking about 
this case much longer. I hope the Iranian authorities and its 
Government will do the right thing.

Roxana Saberi should not be in prison. She is a very accomplished 
young woman who was in the country of Iran because she treasured her 
heritage. Because she was in Iran, she was apparently arrested on what 
I believe are trumped-up charges and has been sentenced in a way that 
completely defies any reasonable sense of justice.

Again, my hope is Iranian officials will begin to do the right thing 
and do it very soon. I call on them to release this young woman from 
prison and allow her to leave the country of Iran.
















 Energy Policy


Mr. President, I wish to talk about energy policy. There are so many 
different issues we confront in this country, and we have been 
leapfrogging from one issue to another. We have a very serious 
financial crisis and financial collapse in this country. We have seen, 
month after month after month, 600,000, 650,000 people losing their 
jobs, in an economy that has substantially collapsed, and we are hoping 
now is at bottom. We are hoping we will begin to rebuild once again. 
But when we talk about 3.7 million people having lost their jobs just 
since this recession began. This is a very serious situation.

So the financial crisis that is one issue. On top of that, day after 
day we hear of other significant challenges--a crisis now that might 
turn out to be a pandemic dealing with swine flu, and requiring the 
U.S. Government to move very quickly to address that. I just described 
one issue in Iran. The reality is that we have a country that wishes to 
build a nuclear weapon and imprisons innocent young women. Further, 
there are concerns about North Korea and their actions in recent weeks. 
We have no end to challenges. We are trying to figure out what and 
where we go with respect to Afghanistan and Pakistan. What do we do 
about Iraq? How do we address the issue of terrorism? There is no end 
to the issues we face.

I have been in both Afghanistan and in Iraq and that region dealing 
with, not only the internal issues of both countries which are very 
difficult, but the issue of terrorism in the region is something very 
important to us.

My point is that we are working on many issues and all of them 
critically important. But let me describe one issue that, if something 
catastrophic happened some night about midnight, would put this country 
flat on its back. That concern is energy and our unbelievable 
dependence on foreign energy.

Let me put a chart up that shows oil consumption. This is a chart 
showing the top oil consumers in the world. At the top of the chart is 
the United States. The next largest is China and so forth. We put 
little straws in this planet and suck oil out. We suck 85 million 
barrels of oil every day out of the Earth--85 million barrels a day! 
One-fourth of it is needed for the United States. Think of that: One-
fourth of everything that is taken out of this planet in the form of 
oil is needed in this country. We have an unbelievable appetite for oil 
to turn into energy.

Another statistic: Of the 21 million barrels a day that we use in the 
United States, nearly 70 percent comes from outside our country. We are 
70 percent dependent on oil supplies from outside of our country. 
Another statistic: Nearly 70 percent of all the oil that we use is used 
in the transportation sector. We get behind a steering wheel, put the 
key in the ignition, get the seat real comfortable, put whatever we are 
going to put in the cup holder, and away we go using oil. As I said, 70 
percent of that which we use is used in transportation, and nearly 70 
percent of that which we use comes from outside our country.

Think through for a moment: If somehow terrorists interrupted the 
supply of oil to this country or were able to destroy one of the major 
supply lines or one of the major facilities in Saudi Arabia or 
elsewhere, then we would be in very significant difficulty. This 
demonstrates how we are unbelievably dependent on oil.

I think we are going to continue to use oil, natural gas and fossil 
fuels in our future for a long time. We are going to need to use them 
differently by decarbonizing them and have less CO2 emitted, 
but the fact is we are going to continue to use fossil energy. Much 
more importantly, how do we, even as we continue to use that oil, make 
the U.S. less dependent on that oil which others produce? Well, the way 
we do that, it seems to me, is to define a different kind of energy 
future. To decide that, we are going to produce renewable energy and 
that we are going to do so by maximizing the production of renewable 
energy domestically. If we are producing a lot of energy from the wind 
and a lot of energy from the sun, or biomass or other alternatives, it 
means we need to import less oil. That is a fact.

We are going to have a lot of debates, and it wasn't too many months 
ago on the floor of the Senate that we had folks coming with big signs 
that said: Drill, baby, drill. Drill, baby, drill. The whole notion was 
you have to drill more. Well, you know what, I am for drilling more. It 
makes sense to me.

By the way, if you are going to drill more, the place you would go, 
it seems to me, is in the eastern Gulf of Mexico--where you have 
substantial opportunities to achieve more production. The only area 
that has been newly opened in the Gulf of Mexico in recent years is 
something called lease 181, which four of us, myself, Senator Bingaman, 
then-Senator Talent, and Senator Domenici introduced legislation to 
open. It got narrowed some, but we got it done, and that became law. 
They had a lease sale, and we now have the opportunity to get some 
energy from lease 181, which is a reasonably small area in the eastern 
gulf.

My point is: We should drill more. Let us drill where it makes sense 
and add to our stock. But the fact is, that in itself will not solve 
our problems. Senator Voinovich and I introduced legislation in recent 
weeks called the National Energy Security Act of 2009. It is bipartisan 
and addresses a wide range of issues of things we have to do to address 
this energy issue. Right now, in the authorization committee of the 
Energy and Natural Resources Committee, we are beginning to write a new 
energy bill as well, and I am pushing very hard to include those kinds 
of provisions in a new energy bill that will, I hope, come to the floor 
of the Senate reasonably soon.

Here are the kinds of things this represents--the achievements I 
think we have to strive for in a new energy bill. It is what we have 
included in the National Energy Security Act. Number 1, reduce our 
dependence on foreign oil; Number 2, increase domestic production--and 
that is not just oil but production of all sources of energy--Number 3, 
electrify and diversify our vehicle fleet because as I indicated, 70 
percent of our energy is used in transportation; and by doing this we 
can move toward an electric drive future with respect to vehicles, and 
then even beyond that, hydrogen fuel cells with respect to the long-
term future--Number 4, create a transmission superhighway; and, Number 
5, train the energy workforce of tomorrow.

The transmission superhighway is a critical part of this because we 
don't have a transmission superhighway similar to the interstate 
highway system in this country. We have a transmission system that is 
kind of like an old inner tube with patches on it. Much of it is old, 
with some new, but it does not have a transmission capability that 
connects all of America. What we need to do is maximize the potential 
of renewable energy.

How do we do that? Well, the wind blows especially hard from Texas to 
North Dakota. What you need to do is to capture that wind energy and 
move it to where it is needed. For example in North Dakota, while it 
can produce a lot of wind energy--the Department of Energy calls it the 
Saudi Arabia of wind--North Dakota doesn't need the additional wind 
energy. But if it can produce it, it must move it to where it is 
needed. From Texas to California, in the heartland of our country, 
where you can produce a lot of energy from the wind, you need to have a 
modern grid that connects it to areas of the country that can use, and 
must have, the product of that wind energy.



I mean, this is simple. You take energy from the wind and, through a 
turbine, turn it into electricity. You can do a lot of things with it, 
but most notably you would put it on a grid and move it to where it is 
needed. Or you can, through electrolysis, separate hydrogen from water 
and store a hydrogen fuel from it.

This is an example of an interstate transmission system. We have all 
seen these. Actually, there are new technologies now that would allow 
it to be put underground and perhaps would be much more efficient and 
much less costly. But anyway, if you don't modernize the transmission 
grid and create a superhighway of transmission capability connecting 
all of America, you cannot possibly maximize wind energy or solar 
energy or biomass or others. You can't possibly do it. If we can get a 
bill to the floor of the Senate that is tepid or halting with respect 
to how we want to do this, or even whether we want to do it, we can 
talk until we are blue in the face. But we will not have done this 
country any favors in maximizing the production of renewable energy.

I mentioned a transmission system. The transmission system is 
necessary for wind and solar energy, and so on. Most of us now 
understand what this wind energy means. I know it was a fanciful idea 
not too many years ago to talk about getting energy from the wind, but 
with the new technology with respect to the turbines, you can put a big 
old tower up and some very large blades and you can grab energy from 
the wind and produce electricity. Once you put that tower up, you can 
make a few adjustments here or there, but for the next 30 years, you 
are going to be getting wind energy for virtually nothing. I understand 
we have to talk about maintenance, but understand that wind is free.

By the way, free energy comes from sun as well. As we know, the wind 
comes from different warming trends of the Earth, the sun shines all 
the time and has an unbelievable amount of energy that it focuses on 
the Earth, both in solar energy and wind energy. We need to harvest it 
and we need to take advantage of it with solar cells and a whole range 
of different approaches using solar and wind energy.

The only way it will work, however, is if we have, as I said, an 
interstate transmissions system. This system has three components to it 
that make it controversial: Who is going to plant it? Who is going to 
site it? And who is going to pay for it? Now, let me give a statistic. 
In the last 9 years, we have produced 11,000 miles of natural gas 
pipeline in this country, moving natural gas all around the country. 
During those 9 years, we have been able to build only 640 miles of high 
voltage transmission lines. Let me say that again. We have built 11,000 
miles of natural gas pipeline, and during the same period we could only 
build 640 miles of high voltage transmission lines.

Why is that? It is because it is hard to build transmission lines. 
Nobody wants them to cross their interstate transmission lines. Talking 
about interstate now. They have proven very difficult to build because 
you have several different jurisdictions that have to give approval and 
a good many of them simply say, ''Not in my back yard. Take a hike.'' 
We have to address those issues. Is it controversial? Sure it is. But 
if we don't address it, I guarantee you this country can talk and talk 
and talk about moving toward more renewable energy, but we will never 
get there. We will not get there. Now, if we do that--move toward more 
renewable energy and put it on transmission lines to move it where it 
is needed--it will allow us to move toward an electric drive future for 
our vehicles, which I think is very important.

I have often mentioned my first vehicle as a young kid was an 
antique--a 1924 Model T Ford. It is interesting--I will not tell the 
whole story about my Model T Ford--but I restored it in 2 years as a 
young teenage kid. I loved to do that stuff. When I got it running 
again, got it painted and all fixed up, it was a car that was 
serviceable, right? It was running. The Model T ran. The interesting 
thing about vehicles is that everything--everything--in a vehicle has 
changed since they made a Model T--everything. It doesn't matter what 
you talk about--tires, the radiator, the spark plugs, you name it--it 
has all changed. There is now computer capability. But the one thing 
that hasn't changed is the gas tank. The gas tank on that car that was 
built nearly a century ago is the same as the gas tank on the current 
vehicle. You filled it the same way as you do now: You looked for a gas 
pump, drove up there, stuck a hose in the tank and started pumping.

Nothing has changed about the way we fuel vehicles. But we have to 
change that. If 70 percent of our oil is used in the vehicle fleet--in 
transportation in this country--then we have to decide if we are going 
to be less dependent on Saudi Arabia and Kuwait and Venezuela and Iraq 
and so on, and change the way we fuel vehicles.

Here is a picture of an electric drive vehicle. I don't quite know 
the form, but we have electric drive vehicles on the road today. There 
is much more sophistication in the development of these vehicles. In my 
subcommittee, I put in $2 billion in the economic recovery program for 
grants for battery technology because we want to lead the world in 
battery storage. That is part of the key to an electric drive future. 
We want to lead the world in storage capacity.

Some of the electric vehicles, perhaps--whether you have plug-in 
vehicles, plug-in hybrids, there are all kinds of different 
approaches--will run on batteries, and when the battery runs a bit low, 
there will be a tiny engine someplace that starts and provides some 
additional charging for the battery. There are all kinds of different 
approaches, but the fact is we need to move in this direction, and I 
believe we will. But it will happen only if we decide as a country to 
embrace the policies that allow us to do it, and that is substantial 
additional development of renewable energy--the capability of building 
an interstate transmission system and getting it done with high voltage 
wires. If we do all that, we can change our energy future. That is a 
fact.

I mentioned a few moments ago about drilling. The fact that I want to 
maximize renewable energy doesn't mean I don't want to produce what we 
need to produce, and that is additional oil and natural gas, and 
continue to use coal as we decarbonize the use of coal. But in the 
legislation Senator Voinovich and I have introduced, we open the entire 
eastern gulf for expansion of drilling. This is a very important area 
where there is substantial additional opportunity for drilling. It is 
now closed, by the way. This little area, lease 181, is the area we 
opened, the four of us, by legislation in recent years. That is the 
only area that has been opened. We need to do this, and we need to 
demonstrate we are serious about energy and all forms of energy.

I have talked a lot about production and then moving it to where it 
is needed. Conservation is critically important, and in the legislation 
we have introduced, we have substantial conservation capability as 
well. But the fact is, when you save a barrel of oil, it is the same as 
producing a barrel of oil. I believe we have great opportunity to 
conserve.

While I am speaking, there are a whole lot of folks who left their 
homes to go to work today. They have all kinds of appliances plugged 
in. It is true at this point that the toaster is not pushed down, 
toasting bread, you know. Many of the appliances are not actually 
triggered, but they are still using some energy because they are 
plugged into the wall. At midnight and 2 o'clock and 4 o'clock in the 
morning, almost every home is still heating water. You tell me the name 
of somebody who is going to shower at 3 a.m. The whole country is 
heating water at 2 a.m.--for what? The point is, we can do a lot more 
and do it a lot better through conservation. That deals with the issues 
of smart grid and smart metering and a whole range of issues of that 
type.

If someone wonders whether all of this is important, I want to show 
you this black spot on the map. This is a map of the United States of 
America, and the lights show where electricity is used at night. You 
can see the population centers. But over here, there is one big black 
hole. That is because it is August 14, 2003, and 50 million people lost 
their electricity. Do you see that? Ohio to New York, 50 million 
Americans discovered the switch they used to flick up doesn't yield any 
energy, the toaster they used to push down doesn't produce any energy; 
no energy at all,


and all of a sudden you have a huge dark spot for 50 million Americans. 
If you wonder about the importance of this, I am talking about the 
reliability of a system for something we take advantage of every single 
day.

We are drafting a bill right now in the Energy Committee, and there 
is a great deal of disagreement about a renewable energy standard 
requirement that at least 15 percent of electricity is produced from 
renewables. That should not be controversial at all. In fact, I think a 
couple dozen states have gone way beyond the Congress on this issue. 
That should be a slam dunk, but it is not.

Building a transmission system--we are going to have a lot of 
opposition. But no country gets where it wants to go unless it sets a 
course. There is an old saying: If you don't care where you are, you 
are never lost. This country has to set a course and say: Here is where 
America wants to head for a decade. If, at the end of that decade, we 
are not less dramatically dependent on foreign oil for this country's 
energy needs, we are going to be held hostage for a lot of interests 
around this country. We need to do this, we need to do it right, and we 
need to do it soon.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.