# REPUBLIC CREATED FOR UNITED STATES
## `cc89e56048afa6156532b7a8b719b98b`
`Mr. CARTER â€” 14 September 2010`

---


Mr. CARTER. Thank you, and I reclaim my time.

The point is legislation is the proper way for us to deal with this 
problem. This Congress is the place where we make decisions on how we 
change our immigration laws. They are written by this Congress, and 
they should be changed, if they need to be changed, by this Congress.

I don't understand why the President of the United States thinks he 
must arbitrarily grant what turns out to be a de facto amnesty because 
his party controls this House and will until the end of this year 
control this House. We still have weeks left on this session of 
Congress, and there is a possibility we can come back after the 
elections and have another session of Congress before the end of this 
year. If this immigration issue needs to be taken up, it should have 
been taken up by the Congress. But there seems to be this idea that the 
President of the United States has the type of powers that he can, with 
the stroke of a pen, set aside contracts; and with the stroke of a pen 
set aside the laws of this country; and with the stroke of a pen ignore 
orders of our court system. I just don't think the world or our laws 
allow the executive branch to be able to do that. It is not like this 
thing wasn't telegraphed before.

Recently, we had one of the worst oil spill disasters in the history 
of our country. And the President of the United States declared at one 
time a gulf-wide moratorium on drilling in the gulf. At that time, 
there were hundreds of drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico operating. 
And at that time, both shallow water and deep water, they shut it down 
by the President declaring a moratorium.

Now how do we learn how we do things in this country? We either read 
them in our laws, we are instructed in the precedents that are set by 
the courts, and we ought to look at the history of how we operated in 
the past. That would make common sense. So before we look at whether 
the President overstepped his individual authority by declaring a 
moratorium, the question would come, has anybody that was President of 
the United States ever declared a moratorium on drilling before? And 
the answer is, yes. His name was Richard Nixon, a Republican.

Now let's look at how Richard Nixon went about getting a moratorium 
to stop drilling off the coast of California. Did he make an individual 
dictate from his own pen and say, I hereby declare you can no longer 
drill? No. What did he do? He went to the Congress of the United States 
and said to the Congress, we need to have a ban or moratorium on 
drilling off the coast of California. And this deliberative body held 
hearings, I assume. I haven't delved into it that much, but I do know 
that the Congress and the President issued a moratorium on drilling off 
the coast of California. And to my knowledge, that moratorium is still 
in place. And whether or not it was tested in the court systems, I have 
no idea. But I would assume it was, because if there was anybody 
drilling at the time, they probably felt like their contract rights 
were stepped on. And I am sure the court ruled on it. And the court 
must have ruled in favor of the Congress and the President because the 
moratorium is still in place.


So what does that tell us about the right way to declare a 
moratorium? Well, the right way is to go to the Congress, and with the 
Congress put forth the Congress declaring a moratorium and the 
President enforcing that moratorium. That is the way it is supposed to 
operate. If you read this little book, the Constitution of the United 
States, that is what it says.

This is not what we did. The President of the United States 
unilaterally said we are declaring a moratorium. He was joined by his 
Secretary of Energy, I believe, but it was taken to court and a Federal 
judge overturned the Obama administration's initial 6 months of 
moratorium and rejected the government's bid to have the court 
challenge thrown out. The government lawyers argued that the lawsuit 
filed by several offshore service companies on the May 28 moratorium 
was moot because the Interior Department imposed a new drilling 
moratorium. What is the Interior Department? Is it a creation, is it a 
department of the Congress? Nope. It is a department of the executive 
branch of the Federal Government. Who appoints the Interior Secretary? 
The President of the United States appoints with the advice and consent 
of the Senate. That is how we get the head of the Interior Department.

Now I can't speak for the Interior czar because the Interior czar 
doesn't have to go through that vetting process; he must answer only to 
the President of the United States, but we have now approaching 40 
czars, and I don't know what they do except draw a paycheck. But they 
answer to the President. But U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman 
rejected that argument, saying the second moratorium arguably fashions 
no substantial changes from the first.

Now, when a judge grants an injunction and says, one side over the 
other, this side is right to seek relief from the court in the form of 
an injunctive process, and you are enjoined, you are stopped from doing 
the behavior you were doing. And that is basically what this court said 
to the President of the United States. It said you can't do this. But 
they did it anyway. Where that is in the court system, I don't know. 
But it is blatantly standing forward. Not only is it bypassing the 
legislative process, which is the normal way by precedent to get a 
moratorium on drilling in America, because that is the way it has been 
done in the past, but then when the court says hey, you can't do it, 
they did it anyway. And now by playing regulatory games and giving 
favors to some and maybe not favors to others, and I don't know 
anything about that part of the game playing; I know that some people 
seem to be getting permits and some people seem to be not getting 
permits, and whether or not there is a moratorium in shallow


water depends on who you talk to. But I can tell you, the deepwater 
folks seem to still be shut down.



Now, there is a reason we ought to go to the Congress. One of the 
reasons is that every seat that you see in this House of 
Representatives is filled with a person who represents at this time 
652,000 Americans. So that person speaks for and votes for 652,000 
Americans. If a choice is going to be made to shut down the production 
of approximately 20 percent of the oil and gas production a year in the 
United States, which is what the gulf produces, approximately 20 
percent, then the American people probably would think this could have 
an effect on jobs, that it could have an effect on the cost of fuel and 
that it could have an effect on their standard of living. It may be 
they would like their Members of Congress to be able to have something 
to say about shutting down 20 percent of the production of petroleum 
and natural gas in the United States.

Especially in light of a recession, I would think they would want 
their individual Members of Congress to be very vocal about how their 
Representatives have represented them and would ask, What's this going 
to do to my job? What's this going to do to this economy? How much is 
this going to hurt us? How much more dependent is it going to put us on 
foreign oil? With these questions, that's why Nixon went to Congress 
for a moratorium, because the people in Congress spoke for the people 
of the United States. That's the way it's set up. The House of 
Representatives represents the people.

We didn't go through that process for this moratorium. We had the 
White House and President Barack Obama basically declare a moratorium.

You will do what I say. You will not drill in the gulf.

The court said, You can't do that, partner.

So then he had the Interior Department saying, You can't drill in the 
gulf. I assume the concept behind the Interior Department is that the 
leases that they were drilling on were Interior leases. That's the way 
I understand it.

Then wait a minute. If you paid for that lease and if part of the 
contract you made with the government was, if you paid them money for 
their lease--sometimes millions of dollars for a lease--and then you 
went out there and drilled on that lease and you didn't find any oil, 
the Interior Department would kind of say, Well, better luck next time. 
Thanks for your million bucks. If you find oil, then the Interior 
Department is supposed to say, Well, congratulations. Although, there 
are those in this body who would say, Wait a minute. Wait a minute. 
Now, if you've found oil, you've got to give us more money; but the 
laws of contracts have something to do with that--once again, the rule 
of law.

So we were talking about this problem with drilling offshore. We had 
sort of a one-man show of a moratorium, and the courts have disputed 
it.

Now the President of the United States is taking off, and the Justice 
Department is going after one of our States by taking it to U.N. Human 
Rights Council and arguing that a law in the State of Arizona should be 
taken before some body that should have no authority over this country, 
and they'll ask them to call us human rights violators and call the 
State of Arizona human rights violators. They have also taken the State 
of Arizona to court for a law that they wrote, which tracks almost 
identically a Federal law that the Department of Homeland Security is 
supposed to be enforcing but is not. Therefore, Arizona got tired of 
the invasion of their State and said, if the Feds aren't going to 
enforce this law, then we'll write it just like the Federal law, and 
we'll ask our folks to enforce it because somebody has got to stand up 
for the people of Arizona.

I'm not here to debate that. I'm here just to point out that all of 
this type of thinking comes down to the concept that the executive 
branch of the government can do what it wants to. It doesn't have to 
consult with Congress. Sure, Congress wrote laws which state it's 
illegal to come into this country without permission, but we think that 
there are at least 17,000 first-time cases. There may be more. Though, 
starting with around 17,000 people, we're just going to decide to 
dismiss the cases against them.

Now let's think about that. There is a judicial process where the 
folks who come into this country illegally get caught. There is a 
judicial process that can determine whether or not they should be 
deported from this country. It's very similar to the judicial process 
you're all familiar with in this House and all over the country about 
what goes on in the courtroom.

You have a trier of fact who determines what the facts are in the 
case, and you have law that is written and precedents that are 
established which tell you what the remedies are to resolve the issue. 
Then there is a trier of fact, the trier of the law, who comes up with 
a resolution of the issue. Whether it be an immigration judge or 
whether it be a Federal district judge, there is an issue that is 
resolved.

True, true, the prosecution can dismiss a case, but to have the 
executive branch of the government direct the Justice Department, which 
is supposedly our lawyer, to randomly dismiss cases and then make the 
statement ''we're only going after criminal aliens,'' well, let me tell 
you something about criminal aliens so you've got a really clear 
picture of this. I have tried to talk with the Homeland Security 
Department about this because I happen to serve on the Appropriations 
Committee for Homeland Security.

If your definition of a ''criminal alien'' is someone who is a felon, 
then you can't under the Constitution of the United States declare 
someone to be a felon until that person has been convicted of a crime 
by a court. Otherwise, there is something called the ''presumption of 
innocence,'' and until a court declares you guilty, you are innocent. 
So, even though somebody walks in here and shoots everybody in this 
room on national television, that person is still innocent until a 
court says he's guilty.

So you're saying we're going to go after criminal aliens. If you're 
going to call them ''criminal aliens,'' they have to be convicted by a 
court. Now, if they are convicted by a court, it's a pretty good chance 
they're in prison.

Now, let me ask you--and you don't have to be a legal scholar; you 
don't have to be a former judge; you don't even have to have ever 
served on a jury. By just using the good old American commonsense, if 
all of the criminal aliens--or let's just say 95 percent of those 
convicted of a crime as criminal aliens are in jail or are in prison, 
how hard are they to find? I mean is it really a task to find out where 
they are?

I come from Williamson County in Texas. We have a great big jail in 
Williamson County. I promise you that you can pick up the phone and 
call our great sheriff and ask, Sheriff, how many convicted illegal 
aliens have you got in your jail?

He'll say, I can give you a list of people I think are illegal, but I 
haven't asked them.

So let's just assume that the sheriff's wise ideas are even 
inaccurate a little bit. You're still going to pick up a number of 
them. How hard is it to catch them? Go to the jail; go to their cells; 
unlock the doors and take them. That's how hard it is to catch them. 
They're in custody. They've dedicated the entire program of ICE to one 
proposition--deporting illegal aliens who are criminals. They don't 
have to go out and chase anybody. They've got them all incarcerated.



It's not that hard, but that's what the target is for this year. And 
it sounds great on television, but the truth is, I think anybody that 
is a normal American wouldn't even consider releasing somebody that has 
been to prison for some serious crime. Of course if you have the chance 
to deport them, you want to deport them; but here's something that's 
kind of interesting: there is a sector of the border--and the Homeland 
folks and the border patrol divide the areas up by sectors, and this is 
called the Del Rio sector. And in the Del Rio sector, we started a 
thing called Operation Streamline with the cooperation of the judges 
and the courts and the prosecutors. And let me tell you, this isn't 
easy, it's hard work, and these people are to be commended for what 
they do.

But they set up a process that those people caught coming across our 
border


in the Del Rio section of the border would go before a judge and have a 
hearing, every one of them. Now, you say why is that a big deal? Well, 
because the President of the United States and the Homeland Security 
Department just declared 17,000 people will never go before a judge, 
not on that issue. Unless they re-file the cases--which is done with 
prejudice so they can come back and re-file the cases--but unless they 
re-file the cases, these people will never answer to a court.

But why would you want them to answer to a court, courts are so 
crowded? Sure, but some judges who are willing to work hard to do 
what's right by the law in the Del Rio sector have made the Del Rio 
sector the least border-crossed area on the border. Why? Because there 
is something about looking a judge straight in the eye and they tell 
you, Sir, or madam, you have violated the laws of the United States by 
coming across our border, that makes those people say I'm not going to 
see that judge again, I'm going to cross someplace else.

Now, maybe we should be setting up a system like that to cover our 
whole border, maybe that would help a whole lot, and we should provide 
the resources to do it.

But the real point comes back to at least 17,000 people will never 
look that judge in the eye based upon the actions of the Obama 
administration. And some of those people may have gone back across and 
applied to come in legally. We are the only country in the world that 
brings in 1 million foreigners a year into our country illegally. There 
isn't anybody who can match us; nobody can even come close in the 
entire world. The United States opens our doors to 1 million people 
that follow the rules and come into this country, yet you can call it 
compassion, but it is random compassion. Who said these people, 
determined by the White House, are more deserving of compassion than 
these people over here because we've got, according to most of the 
estimates, between 12 and 20 million of these people in our country? So 
who decides we pick 17,000? And are we starting a policy that everybody 
that is awaiting a hearing in an immigration court will just be 
excused. Is that the new policy? So 17 is just a start? Well, I don't 
know, we don't have an answer to that.

But the real question we have to be concerned about is, who made the 
executive branch so independent to operate that they can shut down 
things like drilling in the gulf and turn loose people who have pending 
court cases on their say so without any consultation or action by the 
legislative branch of the government or any declaration for enforcement 
by the judicial branch of the government? I think that's a rule-of-law 
question that we in this House ought to be talking about. I don't 
think, when we wrote this Constitution of the United States, we ever 
envisioned giving that kind of power to any individual person or even 
to any branch of the government.

And I think we have reason to show real concern when we read 
something like this in the Houston Chronicle: ''Culling the immigration 
court system dockets of noncriminals started in earnest in Houston 
about a month ago and has stunned local immigration attorneys.'' I'm 
sure it stunned them because they are no longer going to get a fee. But 
in addition to that, they got benefits they never even sought because 
they weren't seeking dismissals. They were seeking probably things 
like--well, I won't go into that--other remedies in the court. They got 
the cases dismissed without even knowing they were going to be 
dismissed, and they are as confused as everybody else is.

Now, I'm not saying it wasn't done for the right reason. I don't know 
why it was done. I don't know who makes the random pick of 17,000 
people out of 20 million. Who makes that choice? Is that the choice 
that one individual we need to have make? It is the immigration czar 
that decides who gets that and who doesn't? Or is it the Secretary of 
Homeland Security? Or is it the President of the United States? And 
under what authority do they have the right to do this? And is it the 
kind of world you want to live in where one person has the ability to 
make a decision that basically sidesteps the judicial system in the 
country because they like you? Or whatever they do; we don't know why 
they did it.


Do we want the President of the United States coming into the 
judicial system of the country and saying, you know what? We've got so 
many criminal cases pending, they are just too crowded, the docket, 
we're going to dismiss all but the murder cases because we really think 
the only thing that is really serious is murder. So wipe out the rest. 
I mean, that seems ridiculous--and it is ridiculous--but at what point 
does that authority, not granted by any other source to one man, what 
curtails it unless we ask about it and we ask what law allows this to 
happen? Who gets to make these decisions to circumvent the written law 
of the United States and why do they get that decision-making process?

There may be a good answer; I haven't heard one. And those who have 
questioned it in the press and those who have questioned it with 
letters, such as Mr. Bilirakis and Marsha Blackburn--another great 
Member of Congress--have asked that question and it's my understanding 
have not received any answers. By what authority is this done?

And I may be the only voice talking here tonight, but every country 
ought to have somebody and every State ought to have somebody standing 
up and asking these questions because the only supreme authority other 
than God Almighty is this Constitution of the United States. In this 
document and the offshoots of this document lies the power of the 
people who serve up here in Washington, DC and around the country. So 
this is serious stuff we are talking about, the rule of law, and it's 
stuff we ought to worry about.

Finally, I want to say that the really sad thing that is being 
reported in some of these newspaper articles is that this is deferred 
action, which really concerns me for those of us who have been trying 
to actually come up with real solutions to be fair and yet be just to 
all Americans, and just have possibly one of the tools that could have 
been used by this Congress established by the written document called 
the law, possibly taken away from us because of the bad taste it's 
going to leave in the American public's mouth.

I'm very concerned about that because, quite honestly, it was one of 
the possible solutions we could deal with. But I'm not going to go into 
that other than to say I hope that when we do finally sit down and do a 
compassionate solution to the immigration problem that takes into 
consideration not only the invading immigrants, but takes into 
consideration the rest of the country that it has invaded to come up 
with a solution to this problem, that we haven't in some way, by the 
actions of the White House, tainted one method that might have been 
used to start to correct some portion of the problem.



Finally let me say, the reason there's passion in my State on this 
issue is because more people died in the war run by the cartels across 
the border. Right across the border, a hundred yards from American 
citizens who live among the border, there have been, I think it's 
something like 25,000 people murdered, which is way more than the 
casualty rate for our forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Police officers and police officials, mayors, anyone who stands up 
and says, ''We ought to enforce the law over here,'' is killed, maimed, 
butchered, beheaded. And anarchy reigns--not because of the good 
intention of the Mexican Government; because of the evil that permeates 
the lawlessness on the Mexican-U.S. border.

And we have to be concerned about what's happening on our borders. 
All of us in this country have to be concerned, because that evil is 
there, and it's just, in Texas, a swim across the river away; in 
Arizona or New Mexico, it's one footstep away from being in one of our 
States and then across the country. And some of these drug gangs now 
have agents in every major and minor city in this country. MS-13 and 
other gangs like that, the study shows they have spread across the 
Nation.

So when we're talking about, yes, we've got lots of issues that have 
to do with good folks who live good lives and they're here illegally, 
we need to work on that. But don't ever forget, if you give up a 
portion of the law, you could lose it all. And when you lose it all,


who's going to stand between you and the bad guys?

And that's why we've got to keep talking about the rule of law is the 
glue that holds our society together. And if we give it up, whether it 
is for what is viewed today as a compassionate, goodwill reason or not, 
if we give up the strength of the law that keeps our society together, 
we weaken our society. And then ultimately those people who would do 
you harm through violence and terror will be able to control the world 
we live in.

That's why our soldiers go to war to fight across the ocean to 
prevent that from happening in our country and to help countries where 
it is happening to establish rule of law so they can prevent the 
destruction of their society. That's why great American soldiers go 
fight those wars. That's why we have the police force and the fire 
department and all of these other departments that protect us.

But if you take away the tools by some group deciding we can just, by 
the stroke of a pen, eliminate a certain bunch of rules we don't like, 
where does it stop?

This is a serious issue of the rule of law. I raise it for discussion 
among the Members of this House and among the people of this country. 
Is this the way we make it better for our lives?

I yield back the balance of my time.
