# None
## `cd625d9bc1eeb2f58da7a264fb8cb344`
`Mrs. BOXER â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, that is now the fourth time--the fourth 
time--that our colleagues have objected. This Senate must not be a 
rubberstamp for any administration, especially when our constituents 
are getting killed. We are here to speak for the people.

Now, my colleague from Texas says we need to take a stand for 
freedom--we need to take a stand for freedom--and I agree with her. 
However, once we allow the Iraqis, with our Armed Forces protecting 
them every step of the way, to have three elections--three elections--
to be able to draw up a constitution, to have the ability to self-
govern, we can't force them to do that.

It is true that there is al-Qaida there. Al-Qaida, according to our 
own military, is responsible for 15 percent of the violence--15 
percent--and it is ugly violence, it is horrific violence, and we 
should go after it. After all, al-Qaida cells didn't exist in Iraq--I 
have the document to prove it--until we went in. We have been a 
recruiting tool. Unfortunately, this policy has been the recruiting 
tool. I have the documentation from the State Department that showed 
right before 9/11 how many cells there were in each country. Iraq 
wasn't even mentioned. But they are there now, and we need to get them, 
and that is part of the Levin-Reed amendment: to change the mission to 
go after them.

A fight for freedom? If people don't want freedom, can we force them 
to want freedom? If people decide to kill their neighbor, what are we 
going to do? Shia on Shia violence, Sunni on Shia, Shia on Sunni--just 
read the history books and you will see how long this has been going 
on, and we put our brave men and women right in the middle.

This is the greatest country on Earth, by far and away, and the 
greatest country on Earth doesn't have a Senate that is a rubberstamp. 
It doesn't have a Senate that fights for the status quo when the status 
quo isn't working. The greatest country on Earth shouldn't send our men 
and


women back two, three, four, and five times to fight without adequate 
rest, and yet our Republican friends set up a 60-vote hurdle for 
Senator Webb and Senator Hagel so we couldn't even pass something that 
said give them rest before they go back; give them the equipment before 
they go back. It is not what the greatest country on Earth does to its 
fighting men and women. That is wrong.

A New York Times story, here is a woman, April Ponce De Leon, who 
describes herself and her husband as ''gung-ho marines,'' and in 2 
weeks she deploys to Iraq where her husband has been fighting since 
March. But she says she stopped believing in the war last month after a 
telephone conversation with him.




 He started telling me he doesn't want me to go and do the 


 things he has been doing.


That is what CPL Ponce De Leon, 22, speaking by telephone, said as 
she boxed up her belongings in their apartment near Camp Lejeune, NC.




 He said that we have all decided it's time for us to go 


 home.


And the wife said:




 You mean go home and rest? And he said, I mean go home and 


 not go back.


And she said:




 This is from someone who has been training for the past 


 nine years to go to combat and who has spent his whole life 


 wanting to be a marine. That's when I realized I couldn't 


 support the war anymore, even though I will follow my orders.


So when we listen to some of our colleagues make it sound as if those 
of us who want to change the mission and start redeploying the troops 
in 120 days don't stand behind our troops, I say, Mr. President, it is 
the opposite. They can't speak out. They do not have a box to stand on 
and a microphone. We owe them the truth as we see it.

It is perfectly legitimate for our colleagues to disagree with us. 
Absolutely. And I would die for their right to disagree with us. But 
what I think is wrong is when it comes to a vote of conscience like a 
war, to set up a 60-vote hurdle. Let's have a vote. Let the majority 
rule. Let's see what happens.

What are you afraid of? The President has already said he is going to 
veto this thing, but it is our job to keep the pressure on, Mr. 
President. So I am very proud to stand here tonight. I am very sorry I 
have asked twice to go straight to a vote on the Levin-Reed amendment, 
but we are not able to do that.

Others will come, and I will be back after several hours myself. When 
you lose 21 percent in your home State, you have a lot on your heart; a 
lot you want to say. So I look forward to coming back to the floor. And 
to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I know this is a tough 
night. I know it is emotional, but I am glad we are doing it. And I 
hope at the end of the day, when someone asks unanimous consent to go 
to a vote, there will be no objection and we can do so.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.