# None
## `cd66af390a66a8139e94a5edf014e11e`
`Mr. HAGEL â€” 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Madam President, I rise today to address the issue of 
Iraq. The debate on Iraq over the last few weeks in our country and the 
Congress has been centered on conditions for America's continued 
involvement in Iraq. Unfortunately, it has been defined by many in the 
context of political winners and losers. Either President Bush wins or 
Congress wins. That is not responsible legislation. That is not a 
responsible approach to a serious issue such as a war, when today we 
have crossed over to 3,400 Americans killed in Iraq.

The troops will get their money. They need to get their money. We 
will find a center of gravity that will accommodate the President and 
the Congress with the appropriate language or conditions for America's 
continued involvement in Iraq. The question we need to focus on now is: 
Where is Iraq headed? The answer will require an honest and clear 
analysis of the facts, as the facts are on the ground in Iraq today.

I returned 3 weeks ago from my fifth trip to Iraq, and there is not 
much good news in Iraq. There is no point unraveling the last 4 or 5 
years of mistakes and bad decisions or assigning blame. We are where we 
are. We are where we are, and we must get beyond the immediacy of today 
and the debate over the conditions of our continued involvement. We 
need to ask the question: What happens next? What happens in September 
and October? What comes after, hopefully, a reduction in violence? 
Where are we going in Iraq? How do we get there? Do we need a new 
strategy in Iraq, new thinking?

As Secretary of Defense Gates has said, America's continued support 
is not open-ended, and the American people have registered that fact 
very clearly. Iraq is caught in a vicious complicated cycle of 
violence, despair, and no solutions. This cycle must be broken. 
American military power alone will not be the solution in Iraq. General 
Petraeus and all of our military leaders have stated this.

Iraq's political system and leaders seem incapable of finding a 
political accommodation to move Iraq toward a political reconciliation. 
Our civilian and military leaders all agree there is no military 
resolution. That is only a temporary holding pattern for the Iraqis to 
find that new consensus of governance, and only a political resolution 
in Iraq will sustain that new center of gravity and that new consensus.

Some strategic new thinking must be found in Iraq for our policies, 
not unlike what Ambassador Carlos Pasqual, Larry Diamond, and many 
others, have been thinking and writing about and putting forward over 
the last few weeks. First we must take the American face off of Iraq. 
Get America out of the middle of the Iraqi political process. We are 
exacerbating, we are complicating the problem; not because we are not 
well-intentioned and have not made tremendous sacrifices but because 
the people of Iraq and the people of the Middle East believe we are 
still an occupying power after 4 years in Iraq.

We must engage, as the Baker-Hamilton report recommended, Iran and 
Syria. The Bush administration deserves credit in beginning the 
engagement; however, it needs to be done in a regional framework, not a 
series of bilateral talks with unclear or disjointed purposes and 
objectives. The time has come to consider an international mediator for 
Iraq--probably under the auspices of the United Nations--to begin a new 
process for achieving some form of political accommodation in Iraq. The 
Iraqis are obviously incapable of bringing that consensus, that 
accommodation together. Only a credible and trusted outside influence 
can bring this political reconciliation about in Iraq. If it can be 
done, it will be up to the Iraqis to support it and to sustain it. 
America cannot do that for them.

There are significant political, cultural, historical, religious, and 
regional differences between Iraq and other countries that have had UN 
mediators, such as Afghanistan, Kosovo, East Timor, and Northern 
Ireland. But they have been tailored to work, and they have worked.

We have to understand we have no options in Iraq today. There is 
chaos today in Iraq. We must change direction, strategy, and policy. 
America can continue to support this process and help ensure the 
success of this mediation, but we can't, and we won't, continue to be 
the occupying power in Iraq.

America has an important strategic, geopolitical, energy, and 
economic interest in the Middle East. It would be irresponsible to 
abandon Iraq and other interests in the region. But if we don't find a 
new direction soon, and a responsible and workable policy to help the 
Iraqis find some core stability, bringing some political consensus, 
America will leave and the Middle East could then erupt into a very 
dangerous regional conflagration. Reality and clear new strategic 
thinking being incorporated in a new direction and policy in Iraq is 
now required. These are the essential dynamics the Congress must now 
engage in--the Congress, with the President--and we must put aside the 
partisan dynamics, the partisan difficulties and differences. War 
should never be held captive to partisanship. It should never be a 
wedge issue for either political party. This is too serious. It is very 
serious.

As we enter our fifth year, with the kind of money and casualties we 
have invested in Iraq, we must ask ourselves: Where do we go next? How 
do we get there? I think that will depend on some bold new strategic 
thinking, incorporating a new UN mediator we can support and frame and 
be a part of, and taking the American face off of the political process 
in Iraq. These are the issues we must debate and find consensus on.

I would hope as we work our way through the differences on the $100 
billion in additional spending for Iraq and Afghanistan that we will 
move to that next series of significant consequences and seriously find 
a new strategy and policy for Iraq and America's interests in Iraq and 
the Middle East.

Madam President, I yield the floor.