# None
## `cda58f55badec91b568b6b3d3018a1d9`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 8 May 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from New York. I 
know my colleague from Illinois, Senator Durbin, will be here shortly 
as well to talk about a critical juncture at which we are now in terms 
of the war in Iraq.

Last week, both the House and Senate sent a very strongly worded bill 
to the President of the United States supporting our troops, saying we 
are there for them when they need us, but we also said it is time for a 
change of course in Iraq, that we can no longer leave our troops in the 
middle of a civil war. It is disappointing to all of us that the 
President chose to veto that bill and sent it back to us. But I think 
it is very important for us to set the context of where we are now as 
we look at what we are going to send back to the President.

These are the facts. There is increased violence in Baghdad as we 
speak. There is increased violence outside Baghdad today. In fact, over 
100 American soldiers died last month alone, and at least 27 more 
American troops have been killed this month. In my home State of 
Washington, we got the sad news yesterday morning that six of our Fort 
Lewis soldiers were killed over the weekend. These are


families--husbands, children, grandchildren--who will be impacted 
forever and who will not forget.

Months ago, the President said to the American people that he was 
going to change his course by having a surge of American troops--
25,000, 30,000, 40,000 new troops. They are now on the ground in Iraq. 
What we are seeing is increased violence inside and outside of Baghdad, 
more American soldiers losing their lives. And what are we looking at? 
An Iraqi Government that has not changed, has not stood up to the mark 
to care for their own country and make the tough decisions they need to 
make. The bill we sent to the President was designed to give him the 
tools to turn to Iraq and say: You need to take on your own battles and 
make these tough decisions. It is time for Iraqis to stand up. Four 
years after removing Saddam from Iraq, the Iraqis have still not made 
the political compromises necessary to bring peace to their own 
country. In fact, they are on pretty shaky ground today, even as we 
speak, as we hear of factions that may pull out.

Most important, what is happening here in our country? Mr. President, 
64 percent of Americans and 65 percent of independents support setting 
a timetable for redeployment.

That is the ground we are now on, as the President vetoed that very 
important piece of legislation which funded our troops. We had funding 
for our veterans as they came home and important, critical funding for 
Katrina and other important causes.

Despite all the facts I just laid out--the increased violence, the 
soldiers being killed, the Iraqis not standing up for their own 
Government--we have seen Republicans on the other side of this aisle 
stubbornly stand with President Bush and refuse to set a timetable for 
our troops to come home, refuse to set a timeline to force Iraqis to 
take responsibility for their own future, and refuse to set a timetable 
to let Iraqis know we are not going to be there endlessly, month after 
month, year after year, for decades.

Mr. President, what is heartening to me today, after the President's 
veto, is we now are hearing from many of our Republican colleagues that 
they, too, believe we cannot continue to send a message that we will 
continue to be there forever.

Senator Schumer was just here on the Senate floor and spoke of some 
of our Republican colleagues who have been speaking out. House Minority 
Leader Boehner said:




 Over the course of the next 3 to 4 months, we'll have some 


 idea how well the plan is working. Early signs are indicating 


 there is clearly some success on a number of fronts. But, by 


 the time we get to September or October, Members are going to 


 want to know how well this is working, and if it isn't, 


 what's Plan B.


We are now hearing, thankfully, our Republican colleagues set forth 
time tables of their own. I think it is important we listen to what 
they are saying because despite the fact they said no time tables in 
the bill, we are hearing them say there is a timeline; that this 
country cannot continue to send our troops to Iraq without Iraqis 
standing up.

Importantly, as well, we are hearing our Republican colleagues talk 
about benchmarks. We know benchmarks without consequences are 
pointless. But unlike the President, our Republican colleagues are 
starting to realize this and are breaking with the White House.

Senator Susan Collins said:




 Obviously, the President would prefer a straight funding 


 bill with no benchmarks, no conditions, no reports . . . Many 


 of us, on both sides of the aisle, don't see that as viable.


I hear that as very promising language from our colleagues on the 
other side. We are hearing from many others--Senator Voinovich, who 
spoke out this weekend. We are hearing from House minority whip Roy 
Blunt, who says he ''can support binding benchmarks on the Iraqi 
Government tied to a 'consequences package,' so long as it would not 
put restrictions on the military.''

Mr. President, we support our troops. The bill we sent to the 
President last week supports our troops. Our troops have done 
everything we have asked them to do and more, and they have done it 
courageously. It is time now for us to give them the tools they need so 
the Iraqis will stand up and take control of their own government.

We can no longer simply say: We will stand down when you stand up to 
the Iraqi people. I hope our Republican colleagues will join with us in 
standing up as well, now, to send a strong message to the Iraqi people 
that it is time for our troops to get the support they need and to know 
that they will be brought home in a timely manner.

It is encouraging to hear the comments we are hearing. I hope they 
are met by the courage of our colleagues on the other side to stand 
with us, find some language we can agree on, and send the supplemental 
to the President. I hope that is what we can do over the next several 
days. I encourage our colleagues to work with us to do so.

I yield the floor.