# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `cde7ee2ffa8e2f5476d6b57f0e8d09cb`
`Mr. REED â€” 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, we are engaged in a debate that will be 
critical to the future of this country. We have now for many years been 
engaged in Iraq. We have seen substantial casualties of our military 
men and women, not only those who have given the ultimate sacrifice but 
those who have been seriously wounded. We have seen our position in the 
world, particularly in that region, seriously eroded. We have a 
situation where, unwittingly perhaps but actually, Iran has become a 
more powerful agent in that area of the world because of the policy of 
this administration. I think we have the opportunity at this juncture 
to change this flawed strategy; also, to improve the operational skill 
of this administration because not only was the strategy flawed, but 
the implementation was absolutely horrid.

The Iraq Study Group made many useful suggestions, and key to those 
suggestions was to begin a phased redeployment of our forces. This was 
similar to language Senator Levin and I proposed last June, which 
talked about a phased redeployment of our combat forces, leaving 
residual missions for other forces, and also talked about an ambitious 
diplomatic effort to try to adjust politically the various forces and 
the various tensions in the country of Iraq and in the region. It was 
interesting to note that many months after the Levin-Reed proposal, the 
administration finally participated in a regional conference last week 
involving both Iran and Syria and the other neighboring countries. That 
is a step forward--a timid step but, indeed, a step forward.

The President, however--after the Iraq Study Group recommendations 
and after our debates last year--in January, when he was able to 
present and willing to present his new strategy, he made another 
mistake in several respects. First, the surging or escalating of forces 
is, I think at best, a temporary stopgap. The real solution to the 
dilemmas and the details that engulf Iraq are political in nature. That 
has been vouched for by every military commander and most commentators.

Rather than embracing the Iraq Study Group's recommendations, he 
distanced himself from them. Rather than talking about a phased 
redeployment, he talked about an indefinite escalation. In doing so, he 
jeopardized one of the fundamental foundations of any national policy, 
and that is public support. I believe the American people were 
listening closely, waiting for a sign that the President finally got it 
and that he was going to begin to conduct an orderly phased withdrawal 
and concentrate on the other critical missions of training Iraqi forces 
and going after terrorists who are much more important to our long-term 
security. They did not hear that in his speech. It is no surprise to me 
that their continuing lack of confidence in the administration has been 
translated into a lack of confidence in our prospects in Iraq.

I think the American people are looking for a policy they can 
support, one they can sustain, and one we can sustain. In my view, that 
policy is laid out very explicitly in the proposal that we are debating 
today authored by Senator Harry Reid. It focuses on defining critical 
missions so that our soldiers know precisely why they are in that 
country and that we can give them all the resources necessary for those 
missions to go after terrorists who have infiltrated the country.

The existence of terrorists before the invasion was one of highly 
speculative debate, and it turned out there was more speculation than 
fact. But the reality is terrorists have infiltrated Iraq in the 
intervening several years, and we have to go after them just as we did 
in Somalia, just as we are doing in Afghanistan, and just as we hope 
the Pakistanis are doing in Pakistan. After all, that is where bin 
Laden and Zawahiri are residing, reorganizing, and contemplating 
attempts to attack us again.


That effort of preemption of terrorists has to go on, and we have to 
maintain a presence in Iraq to do that. We also have to train the Iraqi 
security forces because, frankly, they are ultimately the decisive 
point in terms of security for Iraq. It is not American soldiers. We 
don't have the cultural affinity, as best we try; we don't have the 
vested interests. We are trying to help, but it is not our country, it 
is their country, and to prevail, they must carry the burden of war. We 
have to help them, we understand that. We have to continue to train 
them. Of course, we have to protect our forces.

There was some discussion today about how these missions are going to 
cause our soldiers, as they go through Iraq, to say: Well, I can't go 
after that fellow because he might be a sectarian militiaman and not a 
terrorist.

If those forces pose a threat to American troops in the field, they 
are fair game. That is what this resolution says. But it is made, these 
missions are, in the context of a policy of redeployment, of getting 
our combat forces out of Iraq. We hope we can do that within a year, 
but much depends upon what happens in other arenas: political mentoring 
and economic support. Frankly, this administration has done a dreadful 
job of that.

I have been to Iraq a number of times, as my colleagues have. You 
arrive there and they proudly announce they are going to have 
provisional reconstruction teams all over the country. Suddenly you 
discover months later that their goal of 20 was really 10, and now they 
have just about 10 but not fully staffed and not fully functional.

They are still trying to get it right. Again, any military officer 
will tell you that military forces in a counterinsurgency buys time. 
The decisive action is by political and economic progress, to give the 
citizens, the people of Iraq, tangible proof that their future lies 
with a legitimate government and not those who seek to undermine.


Yet, repeatedly, when you strip away the President's proposal, it is 
just more troops, without the real enablers, the real decisive factors 
of economic, political, reconstruction and reconciliation.

So, again, I think this is exactly the right course to pursue. It is 
a course that we must pursue. I have a great deal more to say about 
this issue. I notice my colleague from New York has arrived. Under the 
arrangement worked out with Senator Levin, I will yield the floor so he 
may speak in the order established. There is much more to be said, and 
I hope I have the opportunity to do so.

I yield the floor.