# URGING ALL AMERICANS AND PEOPLE OF ALL NATIONALITIES TO VISIT THE  NATIONAL CEMETERIES, MEMORIALS, AND MARKERS ON MEMORIAL DAY
## `ce1d1ac6aa760a207ab50a913a6c6702`
`Mr. POE of Texas â€” 19 May 2009`

---


Mr. POE of Texas. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, it's been said, ''From this day to the ending of the 
world, we in it shall be remembered. We few, we happy few, we band of 
brothers; for he today that sheds his blood with me shall be my 
brother.'' Shakespeare penned these words in Henry V, describing the 
commitment of a soldier to his fellow soldiers.

I rise today in support of H. Res. 360 which calls on all Americans 
to honor our veterans by visiting memorials and national cemeteries on 
Memorial Day. I am proud to cosponsor this very important legislation.

Since 2004, 26 men and women from the Second Congressional District 
area of Texas have served honorably and given their lives for the cause 
of freedom in Iraq and Afghanistan. Every time a brave member of 
America's military from my area dies for this country, I come down to 
this House floor, and I talk about their lives, their legacy, their 
family, and those others that they have left behind.

Every year, millions of Americans visit the national cemeteries and 
the memorials and the war markers all over the United States to 
remember the men and women who have so courageously fought to defend 
America's freedom.

Mr. Speaker, in a land far, far away, there are over 9,000 Americans 
buried in a place called Normandy in France, most of them young teenage 
boys that left America and went off to war to defend our country. They 
shed their blood in 1944 for not only us but for those folks in Europe. 
My father who served in the great World War II as an 18-year-old never 
talked about his service in Europe until he and Mom visited Normandy 
and its cemetery 50 years after that important event. He, like many 
other veterans, is proud to have


served but keeps saying that the heroes are still buried in places 
throughout the world.

Each Memorial Day all across America, parades are held, wreaths are 
laid, grave sites are decorated as a tribute to our fallen warriors. On 
Veterans Day, we remember those who fought and came home, but on 
Memorial Day, we remember those who fought and did not come home.

The Department of Veterans Affairs preserves 128 cemeteries all over 
the world that are the final resting place for over 3 million 
Americans. These national cemeteries and memorials remind us of the 
warriors who have fought and gave all to protect the rest of us. When 
called, they went.

I am pleased to support this legislation and urge all Members to 
approve this resolution.

As Toby Keith so eloquently put it in his tribute to the American 
soldiers, he said about the American soldier: ''I don't do it for 
money, there's bills that I can't pay. I don't do it for the glory, I 
just do it anyway. I'm an American soldier, an American beside my 
brothers and sisters, I will proudly take a stand. When liberty's in 
jeopardy I will always do what's right. I'm out here on the front 
lines, so sleep in peace tonight. I'm an American soldier.''

These warriors, Mr. Speaker, are our sons of liberty and the 
daughters of democracy. They are our heroes, and they need to be 
honored and remembered by the rest of us for all time.

And that's just the way it is.