# U.S. STRATEGY IN IRAQ
## `cf05931bab8d5927c9b8104815762faf`
`Mr. SANDERS â€” 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, in my home State of Vermont and all 
across this country, the American people are deeply concerned about the 
war in Iraq. They want real debate here in Washington on this issue 
and, more importantly, they want real action.

Frankly, I have a hard time understanding why some of my colleagues, 
regardless of what their position on the war might be, would try to 
prevent a vote on what is at best a very modest proposal that was 
brought forth this afternoon. If you like the Warner bill, you should 
vote for it. If you do not like it, you should vote against it. But in 
fairness to the American people, we should have a serious debate and a 
vote on this issue.

Let me be very clear in giving you my perspective on this war. In my 
view, President Bush's war in Iraq has been a disaster. It is a war we 
were misled into and a war many of us believed we never should have 
gotten into in the first place.

This is a war which the administration was unprepared to fight. The 
administration has shown little understanding of the enemy or the 
historical context or the cultural context in which we found ourselves. 
Who will forget President Bush declaring ''mission accomplished'' 
aboard the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln when, in fact, the mission 
had barely begun? Who will forget Vice President Cheney telling us that 
the insurgency was in its ''last throes,'' just before some of the 
bloodiest months of the war took place? Who will ever forget those Bush 
advisers who predicted that the war would be a cakewalk--nothing to 
worry about--and that we would be greeted in Iraq as liberators?

This war in Iraq has come at a very, very high price in so many ways. 
This is a war which has cost us terribly in American blood. As of 
today, we have lost some 3,100 brave American soldiers, twenty-three 
thousand more have been wounded, and tens of thousands will come home 
with post-traumatic stress disorder.

This is a war which, with the President's proposed increase, will 
cost us some $500 billion, with the price tag going up by $8 billion 
every single month. This cost is going to add to the huge national debt 
we are already leaving to our children and grandchildren. And it is 
going to make it more difficult for us to fund health care, education, 
environmental protection, affordable housing, childcare, and the 
pressing needs of the middle class and working families of our country, 
not to mention the needs of our veterans, whose numbers are rapidly 
increasing as a result of this war.

This is a war which has caused unimaginable horror for the people of 
Iraq. People who had suffered so long under the brutality of the Saddam 
Hussein dictatorship are suffering even more today. There are estimates 
that hundreds of thousands of Iraqis have been killed or wounded and 
almost 2 million have been forced to flee their country--some 8 percent 
of their population.

While civil war tears neighborhoods apart, children are without 
schools, and the Iraqi people lack electricity, health care, and other 
basic necessities of life. The doctors and nurses, teachers and 
administrators who have provided the professional infrastructure for 
the people of Iraq are now long gone.

This is a war which has lowered our standing in the international 
community to an all-time low in our lifetimes, with leaders in 
democratic countries hesitant to work with us because of the lack of 
respect their citizens have for our President. Long-time friends and 
allies are simply wondering what is going on in the United States 
today. This is a war which has stretched our active-duty military to 
the breaking point, as well as our National Guard and Reserve forces. 
Morale in the military is low, and this war will have lasting impacts 
on the future recruitment, retention, and readiness of our Nation's 
military. This is a war which has in many respects lowered our 
capability to effectively fight the very serious threats of 
international terrorism and Islamic extremism.

Five years after the horrific attacks of 9/11, Osama bin Laden 
remains free. Using the presence of United States troops in Iraq as 
their rallying call, al-Qaida's strength around the world continues to 
grow and the situation in Afghanistan is currently becoming more and 
more difficult.

Tragically, this administration has refused to listen to the American 
people who, in this last election, made it very clear that they want a 
new direction in Iraq, and they want this war wound down, not 
escalated.

This administration has refused to listen to the thoughtful 
suggestions of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, which included two 
former Secretaries of State, including President Bush's own father's 
Secretary of State, as well as a former Presidential chief of staff and 
a former Secretary of Defense, that it was time for a change in 
direction. This administration has refused to listen to the advice of 
our military leaders in Iraq who told us that increasing troops from 
the United States would make it easier for the Iraqi Government and 
military to avoid their political and military responsibilities.

This administration has refused to listen to the Iraqi people who, 
according to a number of polls, have told us very strongly that they 
believe, in the midst of all of the horror and turmoil and violence 
within their country, that they would be safer and more secure if our 
troops left their country.

In fact, this administration has tragically refused to listen to 
almost anybody except that same shrinking inner circle, led by the Vice 
President, who has consistently been wrong on this issue from day one.

As most everybody understands and as the recent National Intelligence 
Estimate has confirmed, the situation today in Iraq is extremely dire. 
The sad truth is there are now no good options before us; there are 
simply less bad options. In Iraq today, according to Secretary of 
Defense Bob Gates, there are now at least four separate wars being 
fought, wars that our soldiers who have fought with incredible bravery 
and skill find themselves in the middle of.

Let me quote Secretary Gates, who has recently stated:







 I believe there are essentially four wars going on in Iraq. 


 One is Shia on Shia, principally in the south; the second is 


 sectarian conflict, principally in Baghdad but not solely. 


 Third is the insurgency, and fourth is Al Queda.


The reality today, as described by the Secretary of Defense, has 
nothing to do with why President Bush got us into this war in the first 
place. In March of 2002, he told us Iraq had weapons of mass 
destruction and that they were poised to use those weapons against us. 
That was not true and certainly has no relevance to the war today. In 
2002, the President told us Iraq was somehow linked to al-Qaida and 
bore some responsibility for the horrific 9/11 attack against our 
country. That also turned out not to be true and has no relevance to 
the situation we find ourselves in today.

In the 2006 elections, the American people, in a loud and 
unmistakable voice, told us they no longer had confidence in the Bush 
administration's handling of the war in Iraq. In my view, they told us 
they wanted Congress to begin asserting its constitutional authority 
over this war, and they wanted us to rein in the administration. Most 
importantly, they told us they wanted us to begin the process of 
bringing our troops home as soon as possible. And as a Vermont Senator, 
that is exactly the effort I intend to make.

In my view, the Warner resolution is far too weak. It is a baby step 
forward. Whether it is passed or not, it must be followed with much 
stronger legislation, legislation that has real teeth. Instead of just 
voicing our disapproval of President Bush's escalation of the war with 
a nonbinding resolution, we should now be considering legislation that 
provides for the safe and orderly redeployment of virtually all of our 
troops out of Iraq within the next year, even as we continue to give 
support to the Iraq Government and their military for the purpose of 
helping them accept their political and military responsibilities. That 
is the legislation we should be debating. That is the legislation we 
should be passing.

How can we accomplish this withdrawal and redeployment? Regardless of 
what happens with the nonbinding Warner bill, in the very near future 
we must bring forth legislation on to the floor of the Senate that 
would prohibit the use of funds for an escalation of United States 
military forces without a specific new authorization from the Congress. 
Secondly, we must consider legislation to require a schedule for the 
return home of a majority of American forces and the redeployment of 
the rest of the American forces from Iraq to other places. Finally, we 
must vote against any additional funding to increase troop levels. In 
addition, we must set conditions in any future funding bill so that the 
President is obliged to begin winding down this war.

We are mired in a war that has gone on longer than American 
involvement in either the First World War or the Second World War. We 
will spend more money on this war in real dollars than we spent on 
either the Korean war or the war in Vietnam. Our standing in the 
international community has declined, and our ability to combat 
international terrorism has been seriously compromised. It is time to 
say no to this ill-conceived escalation. It is time to deploy our 
troops out of harm's way. It is time to end this war.
