# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `cf7d6b61a39948bb48dd3c6b60e7d4fd`
`Mr. OBEY â€” 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 3 minutes.

Madam Speaker, I have a double and conflicting obligation on this 
matter. As chairman of the committee, I have an obligation to this 
House to bring this war supplemental before the House to allow this 
institution to work its will. But I also have the obligation of my 
conscience to indicate by my individual vote my profound skepticism 
that this action will accomplish much more than to serve as a 
recruiting incentive for those who most want to do us ill.

Last year, as the administration was undertaking its Afghanistan 
review, I expressed my concern that the best policy in the world could 
not succeed if we did not have the tools on the ground, namely, the 
effective cooperation of the governments of Afghanistan and Pakistan, 
to accomplish it. I submit today that those critical tools are not at 
hand.

The Afghan Government has not demonstrated the focused determination, 
reliability, and judgment necessary to bring this effort to a rational 
and successful conclusion. Even if we could have greater confidence in 
that government's capacity, it would likely take so long that it will 
obliterate our ability to make the kinds of long-term investments in 
our own country that are so desperately needed.

We have appropriated over $1 trillion for the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan to date, more than $700 billion to Iraq and $300 billion 
for Afghanistan. These wars have been paid for with borrowed money. 
What's happened with this bill is a good indication of the tensions in 
the false choices that we face. The bill started in March as a domestic 
disaster relief and youth summer jobs bill, and the Senate added war 
funding. Then we tried to do something about other emergencies this 
year, such as the loss of more than 100,000 teachers' jobs because of 
devastating State and local budget cuts, border security 
vulnerabilities, and a shortfall in Pell Grant funding because more 
students qualify for aid due to the economic recession.

The House tried to fund those emergencies, which were largely paid 
for with offsets to other programs, but now, true to form, virtually 
everything we've attempted to do this year to address the economic 
crisis and emergencies on the domestic side of the ledger has fallen by 
the wayside. And on the current course, we will face the very same 
situation again next year and the following year as well.

Military experts tell us that it could take up to 10 more years to 
achieve any acceptable outcome in Afghanistan. We've already been there 
9 years. I believe that is too high a price to pay. Now, to those who 
say we must pay it because we're going after al Qaeda, I would note 
that Afghanistan is where al Qaeda used to be. Today, there are fewer 
than 100 al Qaeda in Afghanistan, which was publicly confirmed last 
month by CIA Chief Panetta. Al Qaeda has relocated to other countries 
and regions.