# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `cfa4eddc60899db33c56b65392109e79`
`Ms. KAPTUR â€” 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. KAPTUR. I would like to deeply thank, Mr. Chairman, the chairman 
of our Budget Committee, the very able and distinguished gentleman from 
South Carolina, John Spratt, who has led our committee to produce a 
budget that will balance in the next 5 years with no tax increase. It 
is going to take pay-as-you-go and it is going to take a real regimen 
to correct America's net negative savings rate.

Certainly, the Bush administration has done much damage in the last 6 
years by making a mess of fiscal policy, just as it has made a mess of 
foreign policy; and now we have got these overhanging budget deficits 
and trade deficits. For, in fact, in 2001, the administration inherited 
a projected 10-year surplus of nearly $6 trillion; and within 2 years 
alone the surplus had been eliminated and we began piling up debt, 
adding $2.8 trillion over 6 years, much of it purchased by foreign 
investors, which I will talk about here in just a second.

I want to thank Chairman Spratt for doing what is right for America. 
Many organizations, like the Concord Coalition, states, ''Thus, to be 
clear, the Democratic budget resolution does not call for nor require a 
tax increase.''



The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said this month as well, 
''The House Democratic plan does not include a tax increase.''

And the Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution of this month 
also says, ''The Democratic budget would not raise taxes.''

I think that those on the other side of the aisle doth protest too 
much, because, in fact, you didn't produce this kind of budget. Now, 
you might be well intentioned. I used to think Republicans balanced 
budgets. I have since learned differently after serving here in this 
Congress.

I want to talk about what is so dangerous about the debt that the 
Republicans and the Bush administration have accrued. If you look at 
who is footing the bill, it is foreign countries, Japan, the oil-
producing and exporting nations, China. In fact, China now holds over 
$1 trillion in U.S. dollar reserves, and they are looking to diversify 
away from the Dow. And if you look at what is happening to the price of 
gold, it is skyrocketing as the U.S. dollar's worth is dropping.

Our accounts are badly out of order. This budget maintains in the 
reserve account all of the tax breaks that were given to the American 
people, the extension of the child tax credit, the marriage penalty 
relief, extension of the research and air experimentation tax credit, 
extension of the deduction for State and local sales taxes, school 
construction bonds and so forth.

So even with the incredible drag of the Iraq war on our Federal 
budget and our Nation's economy, this Democratic budget that Chairman 
Spratt and members of our committee have produced does achieve balance 
within 5 years. It is rigorous, it will make the Nation more healthy, 
and I just want to commend him for taking a most difficult challenge 
and doing what is right for the American people, for our children and 
grandchildren.