# None
## `d061c0e8dc745ac321e4f74d17f7c0b5`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia â€” 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. I thank the gentlelady because it is the 
question that needs to be asked, and it is a question that our friends 
on the other side of the aisle asked all the time about what the 
President asked once Saddam fell, what next? What we ask them now, 
given our current situation: Where is your strategy? If you succeed 
with your policy of ending the funding


for the troops and ending our involvement in Iraq, what next? What 
happens then?

There are some very good scholarly individuals who have looked at 
this, and they have said what they believe will happen next. In fact, 
the chart that I have here shows what the National Intelligence 
Estimate, the NIE, says will happen if we fail in Iraq. That is 
important because that group, the National Intelligence Estimate, is 
the group that our good friends cite all of the time, incorrectly, I 
might add oftentimes, but they cite them as the source for information 
about what ought to be done in Iraq.

But what the National Intelligence Estimate has said that the 
consequences of failure in Iraq would be: ''Coalition capabilities, 
including force levels, resources, and operations remain an essential, 
stabilizing element in Iraq.'' Essential stabilizing element in Iraq.

Last week when General Petraeus was here and what he said, and it was 
so distorted by our friends on the other side of the aisle, but what he 
said on April 26 was: ''As I noted during my confirmation hearing, 
military action is necessary but not sufficient. We can provide the 
Iraqis an opportunity, but they will have to exploit it.''

He also said: ''And again I note that we are just really getting 
started with the new effort.''

He went on to say: ''Success will take continued commitment, 
perseverance and sacrifice, all to make possible an opportunity for the 
all-important Iraqi political actions that are the key to long-term 
solutions to Iraqi's many problems. And because we are operating in new 
areas and challenging elements in those areas, this effort may get 
harder before it gets easier.''

Mr. Speaker, that is the kind of information that is imperative for 
this Congress to appreciate and recognize and utilize in its formula 
for where we go from here. If we ignore that kind of information from 
our general that was unanimously approved by our Senate, if we ignore 
that kind of information, we do so at our peril.

So what happens if we have failure in Iraq, according to the National 
Intelligence Estimate, well, one, Iraqi security forces would be 
subject to sectarian control. What does that mean? That means in 
essence the nation breaks into three warring factions, three warring 
factions, and some would say that is what is happening right now. The 
difference is there would be no stabilizing influence whatsoever, and 
the estimates are that ten of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of 
Iraqis would be slaughtered. Mr. Speaker, that is a sobering 
assessment. That is a sobering assessment.

Secondly, interference by neighboring countries in an open conflict 
is what the National Intelligence Estimate says is likely with failure 
in Iraq. What does that mean.

Mr. Speaker, as you well know, what that means is that the 
conflagration, the battles, the war in Iraq becomes a war in the larger 
Middle East in a way that can only be described as a nightmare not just 
for the Middle East but for peace in the world, for peace in the world.

The National Intelligence Estimate went on to say there would be 
massive civilian casualties and population displacement, as I mentioned 
before. The estimates range from tens of thousands to hundreds of 
thousands of individuals slaughtered, killed, murdered, in sectarian 
violence that would put the kind of violence that we are seeing right 
now, which is horrendous, but it would make it seem like just a 
prelude, just a prelude.

Fourth, the al Qaeda in Iraq would plan increased attacks inside and 
outside Iraq.

This is important because if al Qaeda, if in the larger war on terror 
which we sometimes or oftentimes in this Chamber seem to lose sight of, 
but if in the larger war on terror the terrorists, the Islamic 
terrorists whose stated desire is to wipe Israel off the map and to end 
our way of life, that is their stated desire, not my opinion, that is 
their stated desire. If we fail in Iraq, what results is a haven of 
significant size and significant ability to attract terrorists in a way 
and to allow them the opportunity to plot for significant violence and 
attacks both inside and outside Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, as we saw outside Iraq doesn't just mean next door. It 
means around the world. As we saw on September 11, around the world can 
mean violence and horrendous activities visiting our shores when we 
least expect it.

Finally, the National Intelligence Estimate says there will be 
spiraling violence and political disarray, including Kurdish attempts 
at autonomy in Kirkuk. What that means is the nation breaks apart. And 
if Iraq breaks apart in the way that the National Intelligence Estimate 
has stated would be the likely outcome of failure in Iraq, if that 
nation breaks apart, what happens is it becomes a magnet for terrorism 
and a terrorist haven in the Middle East, a less stable Middle East, a 
more endangered Middle East, an emboldened enemy, a likely scenario 
that would bring about significant violence upon our shores once again.



So, Mr. Speaker, the consequence of the actions that have been 
adopted by this majority party, by this bill that the President has 
vetoed this evening, the consequences of moving forward with that same 
kind of legislation, which the majority party has threatened to do, and 
''threatened'' is the right term because it threatens to place, Mr. 
Speaker, at greatest risk and in greater harm's way, if we continue 
along that path, what we do is bring about a less stable Middle East, 
certainly a less stable Iraq, a greater threat to Israel and other 
Nations in the Middle East and certainly a greater threat to the United 
States.

I was quoting earlier, Mr. Speaker, from some news reports and 
newspapers from around the Nation on what they believed was the essence 
of this bill that the President has appropriately vetoed this evening.

The Washington Times said that, ''The Democrats' lack of interest in 
the real-world impact of their legislation is reflected in their shabby 
treatment of the commander of U.S. forces in Iraq, Lieutenant General 
David Petraeus. Last week, House Democratic leaders initially declined 
General Petraeus' invitation to brief Members, reversing themselves 
only after coming under fire from Republicans. And by tying funding for 
the war to a surrender bill that the President will veto, the Democrats 
are showing studied contempt for our troops in the field.''

Studied contempt, Mr. Speaker, which brings me back to the original 
letter that I read from Lieutenant Jason Nichols, who clearly 
appreciates this studied contempt, but also takes it to the next step 
and describes what that studied contempt does. I quote Lieutenant 
Nichols once again, ''To be brief, your words are killing us.''

A powerful statement, Mr. Speaker, and we ought to be listening. We 
ought to be listening to the brave men and women who stand up to defend 
our liberty.

The Washington Times went on to say on April 26, ''When it came to 
the 150,000 U.S. troops now fighting in Iraq, lawmakers included enough 
poison-pill language to ensure a presidential veto which will in turn 
delay much-needed support for military operations in Iraq.''

In another paragraph in that same article on April 26, ''To satisfy 
the MoveOn.org types, particularly in the House, the bill stars the 
pullout as early as nine and a half weeks from now. In an effort to 
provide political cover for House 'Blue Dogs' from more conservative 
districts who want to vote with Mrs. Pelosi, it contains troop-
withdrawal language that sets a 'goal' for pulling out rather than a 
deadline.''

However, Mr. Speaker, if you read the bill H.R. 1591, what it states, 
indeed, is a hard and fast deadline.

I want to quote one more individual who has stood tall and taken a 
lot of heat for it, and this is Senator Joseph Lieberman who last week 
wrote in the Washington Post that the Democrat surrender bill is 
''dangerously wrong.''

He went on to say, ''And today, perversely, the Senate is likely to 
vote on a binding timeline of withdrawal from Iraq. This reaction is 
dangerously wrong. It reflects a fundamental misunderstanding of both 
the reality in Iraq and the nature of the enemy we are fighting there. 
What is needed in Iraq policy is not overheated rhetoric but a sober 
assessment of the progress we have made and the challenges we still 
face.''

He went on to say on April 25 of this year, ''Indeed, to the extent 
that last


week's bloodshed clarified anything, it is that the battle of Baghdad 
is increasingly a battle against al Qaeda. Whether we like it or not, 
al Qaeda views the Iraqi capital as a central front of its war against 
us.''

Finally in that article, Mr. Speaker, Senator Lieberman said, ''In 
the two months since Petraeus took command, the United States and its 
Iraqi allies have made encouraging progress on two problems that once 
seemed intractable: tamping down the Shiite-led sectarian violence that 
paralyzed Baghdad until recently and consolidating support from Iraqi 
Sunnis, particularly in Anbar, a province dismissed just a few months 
ago as hopelessly mired in insurgency.''

So, Mr. Speaker, where do we go from here? Well, I think that it is 
time for the majority party to regroup, to reassess, to appreciate that 
what they have done is spent four months on a policy that is candidly 
shameful; that brings about a discredit and a disservice to our troops; 
that sends the wrong message to our allies saying that you cannot trust 
the United States of America; and certainly sends the wrong message to 
our enemies saying that if you oppose the United States and you are in 
a conflict, all you have got to do is wait because the United States 
will not live up to its commitment.

So, Mr. Speaker, what we need to do from here, the President has 
vetoed this bill this evening. I would challenge the leadership in the 
majority party to bring the House together. I would challenge the 
Senate to work together in a bipartisan way and come up with a bill 
that the President can sign and to do so in very rapid fashion. Every 
day that we delay makes it more harmful for our troops, makes it so 
they know not whether or not they will get the resources that they need 
to carry on their mission, makes it less predictable, continues to 
erode their morale because of the comments like the ones by the Senate 
majority leader last week. So we must in short order come together and 
pass a bill that the President can sign.

Mr. Speaker, regardless of what you believe, what one believes about 
the nature of this battle and whether or not it is indeed the central 
front of the war on terror, it is incumbent that we live up to our 
responsibilities, to our oath as Members of the United States House of 
Representatives, that we live up to the responsibility and the duty 
that we have. That primary responsibility is to preserve and to protect 
and to defend the United States.

I would suggest, Mr. Speaker, that one of the issues about preserving 
and protecting and defending the United States is making certain that 
the men and women who stand up and volunteer to protect our liberty and 
our freedom deserve all of our support and the resources that they 
require to protect themselves and to carry out their missions.

So, Mr. Speaker, I challenge the leadership of the House and the 
Senate to make certain that this week we act to bring forth a bill that 
will pass both chambers of this Congress, and that the President can 
sign, that does a credit and honors our troops; that sends the correct 
message to our allies, and that is, that you can count on the word of 
the United States of America; and sends the correct message to our 
enemies, and that is, that if you engage the United States in military 
battle, that you have met an enemy that you cannot defeat.
