# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `d0c82d6722b7004dab57fc83e05e3756`
`Mrs. JONES of Ohio â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mrs. JONES of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, today the administration released 
its ''Assessment Report'' on Iraq. While attempting to tout 
''progress,'' it is plain to see that this is more of the same rhetoric 
that has become so commonplace in this administration. The sad truth is 
that since President Bush launched this war, more than 3,600 American 
service men and women have been killed in Iraq, more than 26,000 have 
been injured, and the American taxpayer has spent nearly half a 
trillion dollars on this war.

The report highlights that the Iraqi government has not met a single 
one of the 18 security, political, and economic milestones that the 
Congress laid out as measurements for success. It also substantiates 
the fact that of the 18 benchmarks Congress laid out, Iraqis are making 
progress on only eight. The report also shows us that Iraqi security 
forces are not providing even-handed enforcement of the law and that 
Militia presence is still a prevalent force within the security 
services of a number of ministries.

It is for this reason that I am in support of the Responsible 
Redeployment from Iraq Act. In addition to requiring the redeployment 
of American forces this legislation requires the development of a 
comprehensive strategy for U.S. policy in Iraq and limits missions any 
remaining forces in Iraq may undertake to duties such as counter-
terrorism, and protecting American personnel at the embassy in Iraq.

It has been said that faith without action is merely superstition. We 
now have the opportunity to change course in this war. My father was a 
World War II veteran. He died a few months ago at the age of 87. As I 
looked at the flag draped across his coffin, I thought about the many 
mothers, fathers and families that had to bury their loved ones, many 
of them barely adults, and see that flag draped across their caskets.

I, along with the American people, have no more patience with regards 
to this war in Iraq. I've been to three deployments, five funerals and 
countless memorial services; I don't want to go to any more. I want to 
be able to go to one last homecoming celebration when we can bring an 
end to this war.

