# RULES OF THE HOUSE
## `d1103afa6e88380b2fcd183af199aa65`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 4 January 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
Title II of H.R. 6, the Rules of the House of Representatives for the 
110th Congress. With the adoption of this title, we begin to make good 
on our pledge to ''drain the swamp'' and end the ''culture of 
corruption'' that pervaded the 109th Congress.

Mr. Speaker, it is critically important that we adopt the ethics 
rules contained in Title II because Americans are paying for the cost 
of corruption in Washington with skyrocketing prices at the pump, 
spiraling drug costs, and the waste, fraud and no-bid contracts in the 
Gulf Coast and Iraq, for Administration cronies like Halliburton.

Ethics and legal scandals plagued the Republican Congress--from the 
resignation of Reps. Tom DeLay and Duke Cunningham to


the admission of illegal or improper conduct by Reps. Bob Ney and Mark 
Foley.

The cozy relationship between Congress and special interests we saw 
during the 109th resulted in serious lobbying scandals, such as those 
involving Republican super lobbyist Jack Abramoff. In this scandal, a 
former congressman pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit fraud--
accepting all-expense-paid trips to play golf in Scotland and accepting 
meals, sports and concert tickets, while providing legislative favors 
for Abramoff's clients.

But that is not all. Under the previous Republican leadership of the 
House, lobbyists were permitted to write legislation, 15-minute votes 
were held open for hours, and entirely new legislation was sneaked into 
signed conference reports in the dead of night.

The American people registered their disgust at this sordid way of 
running the Congress last November and voted for reform. Democrats 
picked up 30 seats held by Republicans and exits polls indicated that 
74 percent of voters cited corruption as an extremely important or a 
very important issue in their choice at the polls.

Ending the culture of corruption and delivering ethics reform is one 
of the top priorities of the new majority of House Democrats. That is 
why as our first responsibility in fulfilling the mandate of this 
critical election, Democrats are offering an aggressive ethics reform 
package. We seek to end the excesses we witnessed under the Republican 
leadership and to restore the public's trust in the Congress of the 
United States.

Mr. Speaker, I commend Chairman Slaughter and the members of the 
Rules Committee for their excellent work in preparing this ethics 
reform package. The reforms contained in the package are tough but not 
nearly too tough for persons elected to represent the interests of the 
600,000 constituents in their congressional districts. Indeed, similar 
bipartisan lobbying and government reform proposals were debated and 
passed by the House and Senate in 2006 but the Congress failed to 
reconcile the two versions.

Mr. Speaker, I support each element of the ethics reform package, 
which bans gifts from lobbyists; bans lobbyist financed trips and 
travel; requires pre-approval and certification for travel financed by 
outside groups; prohibits use of corporate aircraft; ends the notorious 
K Street Project; and mandates ethics training for all House employees.













 bans gifts from lobbyists


Members of Congress are paid enough by the taxpayers to afford to pay 
for their own meals. Lobbyists can make their case by providing Members 
of Congress accurate, reliable, and persuasive information. Thus, it is 
appropriate that the House rules should ban gifts, including meals and 
tickets, from lobbyists and the organizations that employ them, and 
require that tickets to sporting and other events given to Members and 
staff by non-lobbyists are valued at market price.















bans lobbyist travel


Another reform that I support is the ban on lobbyists and the 
organizations that employ them from financing travel for Members or 
staff, except for one-day travel to visit a site, attend a forum, 
participate in a panel, or give a speech. As the scandal involving Jack 
Abramoff revealed, lobbyist financed travel led to serious abuse. The 
new rules do not ban such travel altogether but directs the Committee 
on Standards of Official Conduct to develop guidelines for minimal 
lobbyist involvement for one-day/one-night travel. It should be noted, 
however, that travel provided by a private university is not to be 
affected by anything in the rules package.


requires certification and pre-approval for travel paid for by outside 
















 groups


I also support the travel certification and pre-approval provisions. 
The new ethics rules require sponsors of all other permitted travel to 
certify that they have abided by all restrictions on lobbyist 
involvement and requires Members and staff to obtain pre-approval from 
the ethics committee for travel to ensure trips are connected to 
official duties, the amount spent is limited to reasonable expenses, 
and the destination is related to the purpose of the trip. The rules 
require the full disclosure of all travel within 15 days after the 
trip. Travel provisions take effect beginning on March 1, 2007.












prohibits use of company planes


Next, the new rules prohibit the use of official, personal or 
campaign funds to pay for the use of non-commercial, corporate jets. 
This provision does not apply to charter plane services or to airplanes 
owned by Members.













 ends the k street project


Clarifies that no Member can take or withhold an official act, or 
influence, or offer or threaten to influence, the official act of 
another with the intent to influence on the basis of partisan political 
affiliation an employment decision or employment practice of any 
private entity.














mandates ethics training


Finally, and effective March 1, 2007, the new rules require the 
Committee on Standards of Official Conduct to offer annual ethics 
training to members, delegates, the resident commissioner, officers and 
employees of the House. This training would be required to involve the 
classes of employees deemed appropriate by the committee and must 
include the aspects of the Code of Official Conduct and related House 
rules deemed appropriate.

The required training is to be provided to new officers or employees 
within 60 days of their employment, and each officer or employee is to 
file a certification with the committee by January 31 certifying that 
they have attended training in the past year.

















 Conclusion


Mr. Speaker, it is wholly fitting and proper that the Members of this 
House, along with all of the American people, paid fitting tribute to 
the late President Gerald R. ''Jerry'' Ford, a former leader in this 
House, who did so much to heal our Nation in the aftermath of 
Watergate. Upon assuming the presidency, President Ford assured the 
Nation: ''My fellow Americans, our long national nightmare is over.'' 
By his words and deeds, President Ford helped turn the country back on 
the right track. He will be forever remembered for his integrity, good 
character, and commitment to the national interest.

This House today faces a similar challenge. To restore public 
confidence in this institution we must commit ourselves to being the 
most honest, most ethical, most responsive Congress in history. We can 
end the nightmare of the last 6 years by putting the needs of the 
American people before those of the lobbyists and special interests. To 
do that, we must start by adopting Title II of H.R. 6, the ethics 
reforms to the Rules of the House of Representatives for the 110th 
Congress.