# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `d2529eb3e348bc70eeb9e19b8ec6dcdc`
`Mr. COSTA â€” 22 January 2007`

---


Mr. COSTA. Thank you very much, the gentleman from Arkansas. I 
appreciate having an opportunity to share with my fellow Blue Dog 
colleagues this evening the challenges that our country is facing as we 
wage this war on terrorism, and try to bring together some level of 
stability in Iraq.

The War Funding Accountability Act that the Blue Dog Coalition is 
sponsoring, that we present to you this evening, is an attempt to bring 
accountability that has sorely been missing almost 4 years now after we 
have been engaged in this effort. And we, as Americans, are all engaged 
in this effort.

This War Accountability Act, if it successfully passes Congress, 
would require the Department of Defense Inspector General, as well as 
the Special Inspector General for Iraq on Reconstruction, to report to 
the Congress every 30 days after any supplemental bill passes, and 
quarterly thereafter. These reports, unfortunately, have been lacking 
over the last 4 years.

Now, as we look back, there has been a lot of water that has passed 
under this bridge, at tremendous costs, beginning first with over 3,000 
American lives, men and women that have been lost, and over 20,000 
Americans who have suffered injuries as a result of this engagement in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

We are talking about the fiscal costs here this evening. But there is 
no way that we can put a cost or a value on the American lives that 
have been lost in this effort to try to bring stability and continue to 
protect Americans on this war on terrorism.

What has been lacking is accountability. The Blue Dogs feel strongly 
that accountability not only in the fiscal sense, but accountability in 
how we have engaged in this war effort needs to be seriously focused 
on. And that is why I am supporting this resolution.

A couple of weeks ago I met with the President, as he solicited our 
ideas about how we should go forth. I said, ''Mr. President, I was in 
Iraq last year, among the first delegation to meet with Prime Minister 
Maliki, and I asked Prime Minister Maliki what his goals were. He said 
they were disband the militias, reduce violence, get reconstruction 
going and move the economy.'' It all makes a lot of sense. Eight months 
later, going on to 9 months, unfortunately, the Prime Minister's 
actions have been far deficient of his words. And so today we are 
focusing on this War Funding Accountability Act.

But I said, ''Mr. President, militarily we cannot be successful in 
this effort alone. There needs to be a political agreement in which the 
major sectarian factions in this sectarian civil war are willing to 
agree upon on how to share the political power in Iraq and the oil 
revenues.'' Let's make no mistake about it. That is what we are 
fighting in today.

Unfortunately, that is the sectarian civil war that we have gotten 
ourselves into, and without a political solution, we will not be 
successful in Iraq.

I have been there. I looked into the eyes of the American men and 
women in uniform who are fighting valiantly on our behalf, and we need 
to put the same support for them as we try to put for you. So as we 
demand accountability on single-source bidding, on sole-source 
contracting for the efforts in Iraq, let's also hold the Iraqi 
Government to the same time lines and the same sort of accountability 
that we should be holding our own government for. And for these 
reasons, I support the Blue Dog Coalition on the War Funding 
Accountability Act.

And as I told the President, ''Put me in the doubtful column as it 
relates to the surge unless we have a political agreement among the 
Shiites, the Kurds and the Sunnis on how they are going to share power 
forthwith and how they are going to share the oil revenues, because 
otherwise, in my opinion, we are kidding ourselves, and, more 
importantly, we are misleading the American public. And sadly, what is 
at stake are the lives of American men and women in uniform who are in 
harm's way in Iraq and Afghanistan.
