# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `d277b2a4e248a4a84ed890bb4f0b063b`
`Mr. BYRD â€” 7 November 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I support the motion to waive rule XXVIII. 
If the motion to waive is defeated, the Military Construction-Veterans 
Affairs bill will be stricken from this conference report.

Frankly, I am a little bit tired of the political games the 
administration plays with the health care of our veterans. It is the 
President's veto threats that necessitated the combining of the Labor, 
HHS, and Education bill and the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs 
bill. The President has threatened to veto 10 of the 12 appropriations 
bills--10. This President is insisting that Congress strip $22 billion 
for homeland security, for educating our children, for NIH, and for 
fighting violent crime from the 12 bills. President Bush's budget 
request simply did not meet the needs of a veterans population that is 
suffering from the pressures of war.

The number of disabled veterans, the type of injuries, and the mental 
health services needs produced by this horrendous Iraq war are well 
beyond the President's shortsighted budget request. Congress, on a 
bipartisan basis, recognized that the President's request for veterans 
programs was out of touch with reality, and we increased funding above 
that inadequate request by $3.7 billion. The President's own bipartisan 
study found that the veterans health care system is in need of dramatic 
reform. Yet President Bush, our President, has not requested one thin 
dime, not one thin additional dime for veterans health care to 
implement much-needed reforms. When faced with the dire political 
consequences of this bad budget decision, the President, our President, 
President Bush, did a political dance and finally agreed to the 
additional spending approved by Congress for our veterans. But--the 
conjunction ''but''--the President insisted that Congress find $3.7 
billion of savings to pay for it in other bills.

Did the President--our President--cut his request for a 12-percent 
increase in foreign aid to pay for it? No.

Did the President, our President--your President, my President--did 
the President reduce his--the President's--request for a 10-percent 
increase for the Department of Defense to pay for it? Did he? No.

Did President Bush identify $3.7 billion of savings from his meager 
and inadequate budget for education or the National Institutes of 
Health to pay for it? No.

President Bush, our President, brandishes his veto pen and refuses to 
participate in any attempt to correct his failed budget. Meanwhile, 
veterans health care, our children's education, vital health research, 
and other programs important to our citizens are at risk. As long as 
the President--our President, President Bush--as long as the President 
links veterans funding to his demand for cuts in other vital domestic 
programs, Congress has no choice--none--but to bundle these bills 
together.

His plan, the President's plan, to veto the Labor-HHS and Education 
bill, and sign the Military Construction-VA bill would force Congress 
to make dramatic reductions in such areas as education funding, funding 
for the National Institutes of Health, and funding for low-income home 
energy assistance.

Those decisions would be very bad decisions, and every Member of the 
Senate knows it or ought to know it. The Labor-HHS and Education bill 
passed the Senate by a vote of 75 to 19. The Military Construction-
Veterans Affairs bill passed the Senate by a vote of 92 to 1.

Bundling these bills is not an effort to jam the Senate with 
controversial legislation. These bills were fully debated. Any Senator 
could have come to the floor to offer amendments to reduce funding in 
the bill. Any Senator who votes ''no'' on the motion to waive has a 
responsibility to come down to the floor and show down on the $3.7 
billion of cuts that Senator would propose for such programs.

This bill could be on the President's desk tomorrow. Any Senator who 
votes ''no'' on the motion to waive rule XXVIII has a responsibility to 
explain to veterans why that Senator refused to tell the President of 
the United States that he needs to sign this legislation. I urge a 
''yea'' vote on the motion to waive rule XXVIII.

I yield the floor.