# SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 4--EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON  IRAQ
## `d34ca888d068fd58268b17839bcad282`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska â€” 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, first of all, I thank the 
senior Senator from Virginia for his considerable work in drafting this 
resolution and working over the weekend with us and our staffs, who 
worked very closely together to prepare this Iraq resolution.

I think it is important to say as well that I respect the work done 
by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee today in considering the 
resolution submitted by, supported by their chairman, the distinguished 
Senator from Delaware, Mr. Biden. I have a great deal of respect for 
Senator Biden's work.

This is an area where there can be more than one idea about how to 
approach something, but at the end of the day, it is going to be 
important to have a resolution that has broad bipartisan support.

I also appreciate the work of Senator Collins, who, as our colleague, 
has worked very closely on this resolution together with her staff to 
be able to submit it today in this fashion by putting it not only into 
the Record but on the floor so it can become part of the business of 
the Senate.

There will be some who would say: Why is there a need for a second 
resolution? Well, this resolution offers a new set of ideas, more 
broadly worded, and in some cases, clearly, more likely to be 
bipartisan for Senators to consider. Given the fact that the Senate 
Foreign Relations Committee resolution came out on largely a partisan 
vote, we think this resolution, because it is picking up bipartisan 
support, will be, in terms of content and support, consistent with an 
effort to bring about a bipartisan resolution with broad support.

The recommendations of the Iraq Study Group have not been followed to 
any significant extent to date. In some respects, they have been almost 
on a skyhook for future consideration. It was our feeling that many of 
these recommendations of the Baker-Hamilton study group should be 
included in a resolution, and we included many of those recommendations 
in the body of our resolution.

We also worked very carefully to avoid political rhetoric or any kind 
of rhetoric that threatens the real objective. The real objective of 
this resolution is to stress to the White House that we disagree with 
the approach this plan takes by putting more men and women in our 
uniform in harm's way to fight, to do battle, to overcome the sectarian 
violence and the possible civil war of the Sunnis and the Shias and 
various subgroups within those religious and political elements. We 
also believed it was important to stress benchmarks and to empower the 
Prime Minister and the Iraqi Government to be able to meet certain 
objectives, certain goals, and to be able to deliver.

At the end of the day, we think it is important to send a strong but 
unified message to the White House and Iraq. The more support the 
resolution receives in the Senate, the stronger our message will be. So 
tonight I am very pleased and am certainly proud to be here with my 
colleagues to say that at the end of the day, we think the strength of 
this resolution to uphold our responsibility will be in the best 
interests of our country and our military and that our colleagues 
should join together with us in opposition to the surge of U.S. troops 
to be placed in Baghdad. It is the responsibility of the Iraqi 
Government and the Iraqi military to overcome the battles between 
sectarian groups within their own country and to seek less of a 
military resolution and certainly more of a political resolution to the 
problems that exist at the present time.

With that, let me say that I would like to see our unanimous consent 
be modified to include up to 10 minutes for Senator Salazar from 
Colorado to speak on the resolution afterward, if there is no 
objection.