# SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
## `d38cb9c19b6f1394e1536f36a61a98b3`
`Mr. LUGAR â€” 31 January 2008`

---


Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the NATO 
Membership Action Plan Endorsement Act of 2008. This resolution is 
intended to express strong Senate support for Administration leadership 
in ensuring that NATO extends Membership Action Plan, MAP, status to 
Georgia and Ukraine as soon as possible.

NATO has a long track record of support for continued enlargement of 
NATO to democracies that are able and willing to meet the 
responsibilities of membership. The leaders of Georgia and Ukraine have 
clearly stated their desire to join NATO and both have made remarkable 
progress towards meeting NATO standards.



The Membership Action Plan was launched in April 1999 to assist 
countries in preparations for possible NATO membership by providing 
advice, assistance, and practical support on all aspects of membership 
requirements. NATO has identified four main categories of cooperation 
and assistance through MAP. First, NATO assists in the development of a 
national program that covers political, economic, defense, resource 
security, and legal requirements for membership. Second, NATO experts 
provide focused and candid feedback and political and technical advice 
to the governments. Third, NATO provides an organizational structure to 
assist in the coordination of defense and security assistance received 
from NATO member states and other allies. Fourth, NATO provides 
assistance in the construction of an individual approach to defense 
planning to include force, personnel, and capability reforms.

MAP implementation is no longer simply an activity that focuses on 
military and security issues. Inter-ministerial meetings engage other 
governmental departments in a coordinated and systematic approach with 
the goal of government-wide reform and progress. These goals include 
settling international, ethnic or external territorial disputes by 
peaceful means; demonstrating a commitment to the rule of law and human 
rights; and promoting stability and prosperity through economic reform, 
social equality, and environmental responsibility. Each participant is 
free to choose the elements of MAP best suited to their own national 
priorities and circumstances. In other words, if approved at the NATO 
summit at Bucharest, Romania in April, Tbilisi and Kyiv will set their 
own objectives, targets, and work schedules.

Since the end of the Cold War, NATO has been evolving to meet the new 
security needs of the 21st century. In this era, the threats to NATO 
members are transnational and far from its geographic borders. NATO's 
viability as an effective defense and security alliance depends on 
flexible, creative leadership, as well as the willingness of members to 
improve capabilities and address common threats.

If NATO is to continue to be the preeminent security Alliance and 
serve the defense interests of its membership, it must continue to 
evolve and that evolution must include enlargement. Potential NATO 
membership motivates emerging democracies to make important advances in 
areas such as the rule of law and civil society. A closer relationship 
with NATO will promote these values and contribute to our mutual 
security.

Three years ago, the U.S. Senate unanimously voted to invite 7 
countries to join NATO. Today, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, 
Romania, Slovakia, and Slovenia are making significant contributions to 
NATO and are among our closest allies in the global war on terrorism. 
It is time again for the U.S. to take the lead in urging its allies to 
recognize the important efforts underway in Georgia and Ukraine, and to 
offer MAP to both countries this spring.

Both countries have significant amounts of work to accomplish before 
they can be offered NATO membership. Let me be clear, MAP participation 
does not guarantee future membership, nor does it consist of simply a 
checklist for aspiring NATO members to fulfill. It is a guide, not an 
endorsement to NATO membership.

I am confident that Presidents Saakashvilli and Yushchenko understand 
that NATO membership will not be possible without the support of their 
respective electorates. In Georgia the issue was put to a referendum 
earlier this month and 76.22 percent of voters supported NATO 
membership. Ukrainian leaders have identified the need for a national 
referendum on this important issue in the future. Alliance membership 
requires commitment and sacrifice that must have the support of the 
local population if they are to be successfully implemented.

Last week, former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine, Steven Pifer, outlined 
in the International Herald Tribune several compelling arguments for 
extending MAP to Ukraine. He said, in part: ''Granting Ukraine a MAP at 
the Bucharest summit . . . would enhance European security and 
stability . . . [N]one of the arguments against the measure stand up to 
scrutiny . . . Ukraine has made as much progress on democratic, 
economic, and military reform as Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, and 
Albania when they received MAPs in 1999 . . . Kyiv has demonstrated 
that it has serious military capabilities and the political will to use 
them. In recent years, the Ukrainian military has provided the alliance 
with strategic airlifts; participated, often side-by-side with NATO 
troops, in peacekeeping operations in the Balkans and elsewhere; and 
made a significant contribution to coalition ground forces in Iraq 
during 2004-05. Ukraine would be a net contributor to Euro-Atlantic 
security.''

Mr. President, I ask that my colleagues support this important 
resolution. It sends a strong message to the administration, our NATO 
allies, as well as to the people of Georgia and Ukraine that we are 
prepared to work closely with each to contribute to the strengthening 
of peace and security in Europe and Eurasia.
