# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3036, NO CHILD LEFT INSIDE ACT OF
## `d3a874b559d62951bb3a00819446612e`
`Ms. CASTOR â€” 18 September 2008`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Madam Speaker, over the past year and a half, this new 
direction Congress has been solely focused on growing and strengthening 
America's middle class. Despite the protestations from my friend from 
the other side of the aisle, it was just this


week that we passed the most comprehensive, balanced energy legislation 
that has been considered in the past decade. That Comprehensive 
American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act proved that there 
are real differences between the two sides of the aisle here because 
our energy bill was focused on lowering prices for consumers and 
protecting taxpayers.

Yes, it expanded domestic drilling offshore and on land, but it also 
added a huge expansion of renewable sources of energy. It increases our 
security by freeing America from the grip of foreign oil. And it 
finally requires Big Oil to pay what it owes the American taxpayers.

Is it fair that Big Oil continues to receive taxpayer subsidies at a 
time when they are making huge record profits? No, it doesn't, so we 
end the subsidies to the big oil companies. And a lot of this new 
emphasis on clean, green, renewable energy will have the extra added 
benefit of creating good-paying jobs here in America.

Besides energy, we have also been focused on landmark education 
reform. Indeed, as I highlighted at the beginning of consideration of 
this bill, we've passed truly landmark historic investments in 
education for America's students. First was the single largest increase 
in college aid since the GI bill, the College Cost Reduction and Access 
Act of 2007. Under that law, 6.8 million students who take out need-
based Federal loans each year will see the interest rates on their 
loans cut in half.

We increased Pell Grants by over $1,000. We have also passed and it 
was signed into law by President Bush the Ensuring Continued Access to 
Student Loans For American Families Act. That is so vital during this 
turmoil in the financial markets. It is absolutely vital that American 
families can still get those low-cost student loans. That new law 
provides new protections to ensure that families have timely, 
uninterrupted access to Federal college loans in the event that 
distress in the credit markets leads to a significant number of lenders 
not being liquid and being able to lend to families.

We also expanded college access for students and families, we cleaned 
up the corrupt practices going on on some campuses in student loan 
programs, addressed student textbook costs and increased college aid 
and support programs for veterans and military families.

And one that I didn't mention but I think we can all celebrate, the 
hugely bipartisan and popular new GI bill for the 21st century that 
will provide 4-year scholarships to the brave men and women who have 
served in the wars of Iraq and Afghanistan. We truly have been on the 
side of American families and the middle class.

This modest bill today also renews our commitment to the No Child 
Left Inside Act. Doesn't that really bring all of this together as we 
focus on energy policy and improving our public education and higher 
education in this country, a modest but important commitment to 
students at home who are interested in environmental sustainability and 
energy conservation. We will provide additional resources to our 
schools and our students so they can get outside the classroom, get 
away from the TV set and the video games and learn by doing, learn in 
an active setting, learn out in the natural environment how to conserve 
energy and to address global climate change.

Studies shows that environmental education boosts student 
achievement, it builds students' critical thinking and social skills, 
it improves student behavior, and it can enhance teaching. So we are 
going to help schools and States expand and enhance environmental 
education. We are going to focus on qualified expert teachers in the 
Nation's classrooms, and strengthen and develop environmental literacy 
plans.

For a long time there was another group in charge here in Washington, 
and it oftentimes seems like over the past decades it has been the 
Democrats who have had to come in and clean up the mess of past 
administrations. Well, I think we are proving again that we are on 
track to do that again. We are all in this together and we need to pass 
this bill. I urge a unanimous ''yes'' vote on the previous question and 
on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Mr. Lincoln Diaz-Balart of 
Florida is as follows:

Amendment to H. Res. 1441 Offered by Mr. Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Florida




 At the end of the resolution add the following new section:



 Sec. 3. It shall not be in order in the House to consider a 


 concurrent resolution providing for an adjournment of either 


 House of Congress until comprehensive energy legislation has 


 been enacted into law that includes provisions designed to--



 (A) allow states to expand the exploration and extraction 


 of natural resources along the Outer Continental Shelf;



 (B) open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and oil shale 


 reserves to environmentally prudent exploration and 


 extraction;



 (C) extend expiring renewable energy incentives;



 (D) encourage the streamlined approval of new refining 


 capacity and nuclear power facilities;



 (E) encourage advanced research and development of clean 


 coal, coal-to-liquid, and carbon sequestration technologies; 


 and



 (F) minimize drawn out legal challenges that unreasonably 


 delay or prevent actual domestic energy production.