# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `d3b93f38ce765cb74ad0edbee552d385`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, we have seen an increasing amount of 
attention on the growing problem of community and hospital-associated 
methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, infections. The 
CDC estimates that in 2005 in the U.S., 94,000 people developed an 
invasive drug-resistant staph infection. Out of 94,000 infections, 
researchers found that more than half were acquired in the health care 
system--people who had recently had surgery or were on kidney dialysis, 
for example. Nearly 19,000 Americans die, often needlessly, from these 
infections every year. This is more than the number of people who died 
from HIV/AIDS, homicide, emphysema, or Parkinson's.

The infections impact not only our civilian families but also our 
military families. CDC worked with the Army in 2003 to look at an 
outbreak of serious infections among soldiers. Between March and 
October 2003, they discovered that 145 American soldiers had been 
infected with another drug-resistant bacteria, Acinetobacter baumannii-
calcoaceticus complex, or ABC. This outbreak of drug-resistant wound 
infections among soldiers in Iraq appears to have come from the U.S. 
military hospitals where they were treated, not the battlefield.

Hospitals are taking active steps to identify and control infections, 
but keep in mind that about half of the infections that end up being 
treated in a hospital were actually picked up in the community. Schools 
in Connecticut, Maryland, North Carolina, Ohio, Virginia, and Kentucky 
have had to close to help contain the spread of an infection. School 
officials in Mississippi, New Hampshire, and Virginia reported student 
deaths within the past month from bacteria, while officials in at least 
four other States reported cases of students being infected. Most 
recently, a 12-year-old in Brooklyn died from a community-aquired staph 
infection.



In the State of Illinois, cases of the drug-resistant staph infection 
closed schools in Aurora and Joliet. Other cases were confirmed in the 
Indian Prairie School District in the Aurora Naperville area. Two 
suburban Catholic elementary schools outside of Chicago were closed for 
heavy-duty cleaning after school leaders discovered each of the student 
bodies had a case of a drug-resistant staph infection.

States are taking important steps to control staph infection. The 
State of Illinois has taken aggressive steps to identify the infection 
before it grows out of control. Illinois is the first State to require 
testing of all high-risk hospital patients and isolation of those who 
carry the bacteria called MRSA. Twenty-two States have passed laws that 
will give their residents important information about hospital 
infections. Nineteen States have laws that require public reporting of 
infection rates.

States are actively pursuing the options that the CDC recommends for 
communities and hospitals to help fight the spread of drug-resistant 
bugs. It is time for the Federal Government to follow suit.

Today, I introduce the Community and Healthcare Associated Infections 
Reduction Act of 2007. This legislation builds on what hospitals are 
already doing and what infectious disease experts and Government 
agencies agree is critical to reducing the emergence of these 
infections.

My colleagues, Senator Obama and Senator Schumer, and I introduced 
this bill because we believe we have a national responsibility to 
improve the prevention, detection, and treatment of community and 
health care-associated infections. To do so, we need to tackle the 
problem from all sides.

We need better data to understand the problem at hand. The bill 
requires hospitals to report infection rates to the Federal Government, 
which we will then use to target high risk areas, identify hospitals 
that are doing a good job of controlling infections, and do a better 
job of communicating what we know to hospitals and health departments 
around the country. With better data, researchers will learn more about 
how to treat and, ideally, how to prevent these dangerous infections.

But, reporting is not enough. We need comprehensive infection control 
programs. The bill commissions an updated, comprehensive look at best 
practices for hospitals on infection control to provide hospitals the 
tools they need to best address these infections.

The bill also requires the Secretary to conduct a feasibility study 
on the creation of a Federal payment system to acknowledge and reward 
hospitals that are preventing these infections. Would this system work 
and is it what hospitals need? Hospital workers, doctors, and nurses do 
their very best to protect patients from infection. What more can be 
done to reward hospitals that are keeping infection rates low?

In addition, the bill addresses the growing impact of these 
infections--inside and outside the hospital. A new public health 
campaign will increase awareness in the public and educate people about 
reducing and preventing infections, especially in schools, locker 
rooms, playgrounds--the areas where we know bacteria can thrive. 
Finally, the bill calls for greater coordination of and greater 
emphasis on research at the Federal level. There are promising 
approaches to the control of infectious disease--for example, some 
investigators are looking at the use of bacteria-resistant surfaces in 
hospitals and other settings.

In a Nation as rich as ours, with the best health care professionals 
in the world, we don't expect people to come into a health care setting 
with a broken bone and then go home with a dangerous infection. Our 
health care system is safe and high quality, and I think we can only 
improve on that with a stronger emphasis on prevention, reporting and 
research. Our patients need it, our families deserve it, and everyone 
of us wants it.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.