# PROGRESS IN IRAQ
## `d3ed560f36a7d17b5f089a609da1b40c`
`Mr. GRAHAM â€” 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I think our time expires in the next 5 
minutes. I will quickly wrap up my thoughts and ask my colleagues to 
comment.

People want to know when we are going to come home. Trust me, if you 
have been to Iraq at all, if you spent any time with our men and women 
in uniform, you want them to be with their families and out of harm's 
way in the most desperate way.

The point I want people to remember is these are all volunteers. Some 
have been there two, three, four times. They make one simple request to 
me as a Senator: Take care of us, but support us so we can win. The 
reason they go back time and time again is they understand the 
consequences to our Nation if we lose.

So if you want to take stress off the military--and don't we all--the 
best stress we can take off our military is the stress of not knowing 
if they are going to be allowed to win.

I hope colleagues in this body will respect General Petraeus's 
reasoned opinion and give him some deference because I think he has 
produced results that will go down in history as one of the most 
successful military counterinsurgency operations anywhere on the planet 
and give a little deference and respect to Ambassador Crocker, who has 
put together political progress under the most difficult circumstances, 
where the Iraqis are seeing each other now not as enemies but as 
partners in an endeavor to create a better life for themselves, to live 
at peace with their neighbors, and to make the whole world safer 
against extremism.

When we come home is not the question for the ages. It may be for 
your next election and it may be about your political future; that may 
be the way you are looking at it or it may be about the Republican 
Party's political future. It is not that way for me, Senator McCain, or 
I think anybody else, certainly not for Senator Lieberman.

The question for me, the question for our Nation, and the world over 
time is, What did we leave behind? I am more confident than ever that 
we can leave behind, in the heart of the Mideast, in the center of the 
Arab world, a group of people called Iraqis, who will be our friends 
for a long time to come, will contain Iranian expansionism, and will 
continue to be al-Qaida's worst nightmare. That day is coming. The only 
way we can lose now is for Congress to undercut it.

To Senator Kyl, how important is it for the Congress to pass a 
supplemental without strings attached?