# IRAQ
## `d4293572aaf533b9c57107e7e780cd9f`
`Mr. MARTINEZ â€” 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. MARTINEZ. Madam President, it is interesting that we would be 
preparing today to have a debate that will not be taking place, and it 
will not be taking place because it is the prerogative of the 
leadership to set the agenda of what we do discuss and debate.

I agree with my colleagues who have requested an opportunity to have 
a full airing of the views, to have a full debate, to have an 
opportunity to express our support for the men and women in the field, 
in addition to whatever else we might want to debate on this topic of 
the most important issue facing our country today.

But getting beyond the procedural and the tit for tat that so often 
signifies what Washington is about, what fundamentally is this debate 
about? It is about the global war on terror. It is about the events 
that unfolded in our country on the morning of September 11, 2001, and 
the aftermath of all of that, the things that have occurred as our 
Nation has responded to the attacks that were brought upon our shores, 
as we have sought to carry out this difficult mission, but one in which 
we must not waiver, which is this war on terror.

As a result of this war on terror, our troops are in Iraq today, 
where they have removed a dictator from power and where they have 
confronted the enemy, which regardless of how someone might have felt 
about the original decision to go into Iraq, today we are there and we 
are engaging an enemy that is the very enemy that attacked us here on 
9/11.

It is known that in Al Anbar Province it is fundamentally an al-Qaida 
operation. So to send additional reinforcements to Al Anbar Province to 
defeat al-Qaida in Iraq is in the best interests of this Nation. It is 
in our national interest to pacify, to bring some peace to Baghdad, 
which is the capital city of Iraq, which is essential to the peace and 
security of that nation, of that budding democracy that is attempting 
to put itself on its feet, and to bring some stability to that capital 
city by additional reinforcements of American troops in a new plan I 
think is reasonable.

We cannot get so focused on whether some in this body cannot work 
with this President, do not want to support any of his policies. But 
let's look at the people who are going to carry out this policy, the 
generals who are going to be in the field.

In the past few days, as has been stated, we have approved by a 
near--well, I guess it was unanimous; it was 81 to 0, I believe--the 
sending of General Petraeus as our new commander of


allied forces in Iraq. I recall his testimony in the Armed Services 
Committee where he clearly said he believed in this plan and thought it 
had a reasonable chance of success. Why would we not give a reasonable 
chance of success a chance to succeed? Why would we not stand behind 
our men and women who are willing to go into harm's way to carry out 
this plan and see if they have an opportunity to succeed?

The goal of this new plan is threefold. First, we have to have some 
stability in Baghdad. We have to continue to defeat al-Qaida in Al 
Anbar Province. But then beyond that there are other elements to the 
plan. There obviously needs to be a political reconciliation. There 
needs to be a political settlement. But that will never take place if 
there is not some modicum of stability, if we do not bring down the 
sectarian violence and other violence in Iraq to a manageable level.

We then have an opportunity for the political settlement to take 
place between the Shias and Sunnis, and the Kurds in the north, so they 
can all come together and begin to bind as a new nation, as a new 
country, as a new government--a government, by the way, that has only 
been in place about 9 months.

In addition to that, we then have a third angle to this, which I 
think is so vitally important, which is the economic reconstruction, 
the economic development, the opportunity for there to be jobs, for 
there to be opportunities for folks to find a way to make a better life 
for themselves and their children, so they can reach their aspirations, 
and do it in an atmosphere of freedom, do it in an atmosphere of 
democracy and respect for one another. That is the goal.

What would happen if we do not give this plan a chance, if we do not 
see if it has an opportunity to carry out and have an opportunity for 
success? What is the alternative? Well, we would then have failed in 
this test of wills. Our enemies have clearly stated they believe if 
they kill enough Americans, if they cause enough grief to our mothers, 
if they cause enough harm to our troops, we will not stand up, we will 
move on, we will find an easier way, and we will not resist those who 
would bring the destruction of our country upon us.

Their stated aims are very clear. They want us out of the Middle 
East. They want to be able to get America out of the Middle East. They 
do not want us there because they know we are what stands between them 
and the opportunity of creating a radical Islamic new caliphate in that 
region of the world, and the danger that would all bring about.

The new intelligence estimate on Iraq we have seen gives a window 
into what would happen if we had a precipitous withdrawal over the next 
12 to 18 months. It would not be a pretty picture. Sectarian violence 
would ensue. Unquestionably, we would have a Shia-dominated Middle 
East. Already they are, through their proxies, in Lebanon, in Syria. 
They have a strong alliance with them. They are trying to take over the 
Palestinian movement.

Over the next 12 to 18 months, the assessments would be very dire of 
what would take place if we were to be out of the region: an escalation 
of violence, a diminished chance for stability, no chance for positive 
change.

The estimates suggest that a key aim in Iraq is to stabilize the 
situation from the standpoint of violence, enough to let the political 
changes that have to happen take place. I am going to quote from the 
estimate. It says from the public version:




 If strengthened, Iraqi security forces more loyal to the 


 government, supported by coalition forces, are able to reduce 


 levels of violence and establish more effective security for 


 Iraq's population, and Iraqi leaders can have an opportunity 


 to begin the process of political compromise necessary for 


 longer-term stability, political progress, and economic 


 recovery.


Isn't that a better way? Isn't that what we all want, what the Senate 
should be on record as supporting--this opportunity for our troops to 
be successful, and not only to be in harm's way fighting for our 
country, but also to know that the Senate stands behind them, will not 
cut off their funds, will stand with them as they go into battle, and 
will stand with them as they do the hard work of freedom--work done by 
many other generations of America any time they have been called upon 
to stand for freedom, stand for the rule of law, and to give this 
budding new democracy an opportunity to take hold and take root.

Madam President, I am disappointed that today we will not have an 
opportunity to have a fuller debate, that I won't have the opportunity 
to be on record with a vote reflecting where I stand, which all of us 
should be willing to do--take a stand, take a position supporting our 
troops.

I personally would also be in support of this plan which I believe 
gives us the best opportunity for success, which is the only plan out 
there. Those who would not give this plan a chance owe the American 
people an alterative but one that would have a reasonable chance for 
success. Success is what we are after. A victory in this part of the 
world would send a strong message to our enemies. So I am disappointed 
we will not vote today.

I hope the majority leader will reconsider and come back to have an 
earnest debate and take the votes that are necessary to be taken.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.