# None
## `d4699d0e9f96810ae7d7e86de8e0b1d2`
`Mr. ISSA â€” 19 May 2008`

---


Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise in support of this resolution. I 
certainly believe that 100 years of the attempts by spouses to have 
this body work together in a better, more collegial fashion is 
noteworthy.

Today, though, as we honor the work of our spouses, and particularly 
those who would say that if, in fact, you don't do what I'd like you to 
do, it could cause a great deal of domestic unhappiness--I believe was 
the line--in Washington, we should take note that this body is not 
operating in a collegial fashion. This body has, in fact, broken down. 
The concept of bipartisan behavior, including the long tradition of a 
motion to recommit, a long tradition of amendments and opportunities 
for ideas to be exchanged on and off the dais, has broken down.

So I do think it's important that we turn to recognizing an effort 
made 100 years ago at a time in which Members of Congress--House, 
Senate, Republican, Democrat--went to dinner together in each other's 
homes. Their children played together. They, in fact, lived here in 
Washington.

Living here in Washington has become sort of a term for misconduct. 
The idea that you would come and that you would work with 434 of your 
colleagues to make a better America, that you would walk across the 
Capitol and work with 100 Senators to make a better America seems to 
have fallen out of favor.

Today, unfortunately, we spend a lot of time meeting in our 
conferences on a partisan basis. In those conferences we ask, well, how 
can we beat them? How can we beat them now? How can we beat them in the 
election? We should be asking, how do we work together for a better 
government and a better America?

So I hope that the efforts of this club, which have been long, hard, 
and successful in many, many ways certainly in bringing our spouses 
together, certainly in activities for the community, will be a starting 
point today for us looking across the aisle and asking, why is it that 
we're afraid to have dinner together? Why is it that our meetings are 
Republicans with Republicans and Democrats with Democrats? We need to 
work together.



We have big problems in America today; some of them are obvious to 
Americans. We talk of the war and we talk of gas prices, we even talk 
of the Pelosi premium. Well, I believe it's a Pelosi premium, but it's 
a premium built on years of other people's mistakes and other people's 
watches.

Today, I use the opportunity given to me to talk about this important 
bipartisan resolution to say, let's solve gas and oil problems on a 
bipartisan basis. Let's deal with the challenges we face in Iraq and 
Afghanistan on a bipartisan basis. Let's deal with the immigration 
reform challenge on a bipartisan basis. Most of all, let's make sure 
that America's next 100 years is 100 years of success in competing 
worldwide. We can do this if we do it on a bipartisan basis. One 
hundred years ago, mostly women worked tirelessly to form an 
organization to help us do just that. Let's commit ourselves to doing 
just that today.

With that, I yield back the balance of my time and urge support.