# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d476aae1d38912c379ac0a997c6d1670`
`Mr. CARDOZA â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. CARDOZA. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Speaker, I believe in a robust military and a strong national 
defense; however, I oppose this escalation, because I do not believe 
that it will make America safer or improve security in Iraq.

At this hour, sending more American forces cannot reasonably be 
expected to resolve a civil war rooted in over 14 centuries of deep-
seated historical division. I oppose the escalation because I believe 
that we must recognize Iraq for what it is, not what we want it to be.

Our best hope lies not with increasing Iraqi dependence on us, but 
rather in handing over responsibility to them. This ultimate success or 
failure is the endeavor that now lies in the hands of them, not us.



Our goal in Iraq must reflect reality. Our objective should be to 
protect the ethnic minorities and religious minorities from further 
oppression and genocide, and to maintain a strong deterrent against the 
spread of a broader war in the Middle East. None of these ends is 
served, however, by simply escalating the failed strategy that has 
gotten us to this point today.

Like most Americans, I am deeply dismayed by this administration's 
inept prosecution of this war. At almost every turn, the President and 
his team have been intolerant and dismissive to outside advice, the 
consequences of which have been dire. The President sent our men and 
women into battle absent a real plan and lacking the tools they need to 
protect themselves. By pushing our allies aside, the President has 
isolated America from the world. We are now bearing the burden of this 
war virtually alone. It did not have to come to this.

From the beginning, responsible critics who genuinely desire success 
in Iraq have offered the President and his team sensible strategies for 
changing course. Almost 3 years ago, I proposed a plan to the President 
that offered a responsible path forward. I am still waiting to this day 
for a response.

President Roosevelt during World War II, President Truman during 
Korea and the dawn of the Cold War, President Kennedy during the Cuban 
missile crisis, and President Reagan at the twilight of the Cold War 
all successfully guided the ship of state through the roughest of seas. 
That caliber of leadership has been sorely lacking during this 
challenging time for our Nation. This President's inability to admit 
and correct mistakes has not served our Nation or our troops well. Now 
Iraq has descended into a bloody civil war that cannot be resolved by 
the American military. The Sunni-Shia divide goes back 1,400 years. 
Twenty thousand more American troops cannot reverse 14 centuries of 
division and hate in that country.

According to a recent poll, 71 percent of Iraqis want us to leave. 
Sixty-one percent of Iraqis support attacking U.S. troops. To argue 
that increasing our presence in Iraq will lessen the violence defies 
common sense. The American people and our military did not sign up for 
refereeing a civil war halfway across our planet. History has taught us 
that outside powers are ill-equipped to influence or resolve civil wars 
in foreign lands.

I am also deeply troubled that the war in Iraq has undermined our 
efforts to address urgent threats in the war on terrorism, note notably 
in Afghanistan. After failing to kill Osama bin Laden at Tora Bora, the 
administration turned its attention to Iraq, allowing the Taliban to 
regain lost ground.

I believe we must refocus our efforts on the following objectives:

Stopping the spread of a wider war in the Middle East.

Preventing a humanitarian crisis in Iraq.

Protecting the ethnic and religious groups, such as Assyrian 
Christians, who are vulnerable to persecution.

And we must redouble our efforts to snuff out the Taliban in 
Afghanistan.

Let me close, Mr. Speaker, by paying homage to our men and women in 
uniform. Some have alleged that this debate is inconsistent with 
support for our troops. Those who insist that Congress should remain 
silent on this issue are very familiar with that word ''silence.'' Many 
have remained silent when it comes time to supporting care for our 
veterans and their families as well. Many have stood idly by for years 
as our troops went into battle lacking the equipment and body armor 
they needed. Most of all, far too many have been invisible when it 
comes to genuinely supporting our servicemen and women by insisting on 
an effective plan to conclude and win this conflict. Simply repeating 
the word ''victory'' does not equal a plan, or support for our men and 
women in uniform.

I want to conclude by thanking those serving in harm's way. These 
brave men and women are America's finest. They have done everything 
that has been asked of them and more. Let us honor them by thanking 
them for a job well done and pursuing a policy that is worthy of their 
sacrifice.