# WORLDWIDE WAR ON TERROR
## `d4925022ba45de3d26195717d845af35`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, my colleague, Senator Feinstein of 
California, this weekend made a point that I think is very important. 
She, on a television program, said that Iraq is being debated virtually 
everywhere in our country: debated at kitchen tables, business places, 
workplaces, and schools. The only place in America that Iraq is not 
being debated is in the Senate. Here we are debating whether we should 
debate.

That was what went on yesterday, and it is what is going on today, a 
debate about whether the debate on Iraq should occur in the Senate. It 
is unbelievable. We have a cloture vote on a motion to proceed to the 
debate, and the minority party in the Senate voted nearly unanimously 
to say, no, we shouldn't be debating. I don't understand that at all, 
Mr. President.



Why would we not want to engage in this national discussion about 
what is happening in Iraq; what are our obligations, and what are our 
national interests with respect to these issues? This is not a war 
against terrorists in the main. It is sectarian violence that is 
occurring in Iraq. Yes, there are some terrorists in Iraq, I understand 
that, but it is largely sectarian violence, Shia on Sunni, Sunni on 
Shia.

Let me make a point about Iraq that I think is important. The 
dictator who used to exist in Iraq no longer exists. Yes, he was a 
madman and a dictator. We have unearthed mass graves in Iraq to show 
that nearly a half million people were murdered by the man who ran that 
country. But he has been executed, and the people of Iraq have had the 
opportunity to vote for a new constitution.

The people of Iraq have had the opportunity to vote for a new 
government. Things have changed in Iraq. We now have in Iraq what is 
largely a civil war, sectarian violence. Things have changed.

What is the role, then--given that Saddam Hussein has been executed, 
given that there is a new constitution, given that there is a new 
government--what is the role for the United States and its soldiers? Is 
the role to continue to be in the middle of a civil war in Iraq, to 
surge additional troops, as the President suggests? That is what was to 
be debated this week in the Senate. But at this point we still cannot 
debate that because we are debating whether we will be able to debate 
it. It is unbelievable to me. Only here on this small piece of real 
estate, one of the wonderful places on this Earth, the United States 
Senate, do we have a serious debate about whether we should debate.

We should have moved very quickly past this issue of a motion to 
proceed and been to the substance of this issue on behalf of this great 
country of ours. There is a majority in this Congress for a bipartisan 
resolution. And I emphasize bipartisan resolution. Senator Warner, a 
very distinguished American, a Republican, and former chairman of the 
Armed Services Committee, and Senator Levin, a Democrat, the same. 
Warner-Levin. When we get to a vote on the Warner-Levin resolution, 
which disapproves of surging additional American troops to Iraq and 
deepening our involvement in Iraq, a majority of the Senate will 
support that resolution. There is a clear majority for that resolution. 
The question is, Can we get to that point?

I hope in the coming hours that the minority will relent and give us 
the opportunity, the opportunity the American people would expect to 
exist in the United States to debate one of the most important 
questions of our time. This is about obstruction and it is about 
political maneuvering and about protecting the White House. It is about 
a lot of things, unfortunately. It ought to be about this country's 
national interest, this country's best interest. It ought to be about 
the soldiers we have asked to don America's uniforms and go fight for 
this country and what is best for them as well.

Two months ago, General Abizaid said this in open testimony in the 
Senate:




 I met with every divisional commander. I said, in your 


 professional opinion, if we were to bring in more American 


 troops now--he is talking about Iraq--does it add 


 considerably to our ability to achieve success in Iraq? And 


 they all said no.


That is what the commanding general said 2 months ago in testimony 
before the Senate. Why did they all say no? Here is what General 
Abizaid said the reason is:




 We want the Iraqis to do more. It is easy for the Iraqis to 


 rely upon us to do more. I believe more forces prevents the 


 Iraqis from doing more and taking responsibility for their 


 own future.


Finally, Mr. President, a week ago, the head of our intelligence 
services came to the Senate and testified in open public hearings. Here 
is what he said:




 Al-Qaeda is a terrorist organization that poses the 


 greatest threat to U.S. interests, including the homeland.


That is from the top intelligence chief of our country. Here is what 
he said:




 Al-Qaeda continues to plot attacks against our homeland and 


 other targets with the objective of inflicting mass 


 casualties. They continue to maintain active connections and 


 relationships radiating outward from their leaders' secure 


 hideout in Pakistan.


Let me say that again. Our top intelligence person says that al-Qaida 
is the greatest terrorist threat to our country; that they direct their 
operations from a secure hideout in Pakistan.

Mr. President, a question: If al-Qaida is the greatest terrorist 
threat to America, and our intelligence chief says it is directed from 
their secure hideout in Pakistan, and we know that Osama bin Laden 
continues to talk to us in his missives that they send out; if we have 
21,000 additional soldiers to surge anywhere, why on Earth would we not 
use those 21,000 soldiers to eliminate the greatest terrorist threat to 
our country, which would be to eliminate the leadership of al-Qaida?

No, that is not what the President recommends. He recommends we send 
21,000 additional soldiers into the neighborhoods of Baghdad where 
sectarian violence is occurring in massive quantities and a civil war 
exists. With all due respect, and I do respect the President, he is 
wrong, and I believe the majority of this Senate would say he is wrong 
by voting for the Warner-Levin resolution.

In a Byzantine twist, however, on this Tuesday morning, we find 
ourselves debating the question of whether we should debate one of the 
central questions of our time.


That is unworthy of the Senate. What is worthy of this Senate, and I 
am proud to be a part of it what is worthy of us is to have on the 
floor of the United States Senate the great questions before this 
country, the questions the American people ask this morning and discuss 
this morning all across this country: What is our role here? What is 
happening here? How have things changed in Iraq? What is the greatest 
threat to our country? How do we deal with that threat? What about Mr. 
Negroponte pointing out that the greatest terrorist threat is al-Qaida? 
What about the fact he says they are in a secure hideaway in Pakistan? 
What about the fact that no one has done anything about it? What about 
the fact that if 21,000 soldiers are available to be surged, that the 
President says let's send them to Baghdad, in the middle of a civil war 
in Iraq, rather than going to Pakistan after the leadership of the 
greatest terrorist threat to this country, according to our 
intelligence chief?

I simply do not understand this logic. There is a lot to be said 
about these issues. All of us in this Chamber want the same thing for 
our country. All of us love this country. All of us respect our 
soldiers and will do everything to make sure we support them. All of us 
want this country to do well and to make the right decisions. In the 
last 5 years, however, we have been involved in a war that has lasted 
longer than the Second World War. We have been in a war that has cost 
us far too many lives and too much of America's treasure. We have been 
put in a situation in which there has been dramatic change. Yet the 
policy has not changed. This is not the circumstance for which we went 
to war in Iraq. All of that intelligence, it turns out, was wrong.

Colonel Wilkerson, who served as Secretary of State Colin Powell's 
aide for 17 years and was present when the information was compiled 
that led to the presentation at the United Nations, testified before 
the Senate, and he said publicly that it was the perpetration of a hoax 
on the American people. That is not me speaking. That is someone who 
had a distinguished record and who served 17 years with Colin Powell. 
He was a Republican and proud of his service to this country, but he 
said all of the intelligence that was basketed together and presented 
was the perpetration of a hoax on the American people.

Whatever happened, happened. We went to Iraq. Saddam Hussein has now 
been executed. Iraq has a new constitution and a government. It is 
time, long past time for this country to say this to the country of 
Iraq: Saddam Hussein is gone. You have a new constitution. You have a 
new government. The question is this: Do you have the will to provide 
for your own security? Because if you don't, no one in the world can do 
it for you. Do you have the will to take your country back? This is 
your country, not ours. This country belongs to you, not us. Do you 
have the will to provide the security for a free Iraq? Because if you 
do not, I say to the people of Iraq, American soldiers cannot, for any 
indefinite period, provide order and


security in Iraq for you. You have to make that judgment, and you have 
to understand that it is your responsibility to provide security in 
Iraq.

This is not a circumstance where we are trying to embarrass anybody. 
We are not trying to say to the President: You have an awful situation 
you have created, shame on you. That is not what this debate is about. 
All of us understand that things have changed. This debate is about 
what do we do at this point. Do we agree with the President that we 
should send 21,000 more American troops into Baghdad and surge and 
deepen America's involvement in this war?

Quite clearly, if we are allowed to get to this debate and have a 
vote on Warner-Levin, a bipartisan resolution, this Senate will say, 
no, we believe it is the wrong thing, and that will be the first step 
in beginning to change policy. It will say to the President, we believe 
you must change the policy, and then use our energies and our efforts 
to go after the leadership of al-Qaida. They are the ones who murdered 
Americans on 9/11, and they still exist in secure hideaways, according 
to our intelligence chief. Let's deal with the greatest terrorist 
threat to this country, according to Mr. Negroponte, the head of 
American intelligence. The greatest threat to our country. They exist. 
They live today, he says, in Pakistan. Let's deal with those issues.

As I indicated earlier, all of us want the same thing for our 
country. This is not about politics. It cannot be about politics. It is 
about policy and what works for America's future, what strengthens our 
country, what keeps our promise to our soldiers, and what keeps our 
commitment to ourselves as one of the great symbols of freedom in the 
world. That is why I hope we will get past this issue that has now 
impaled this Senate, a debate about whether we should debate. The 
answer clearly ought to be, yes, we ought to get to the debate that is 
significant and important to the future of this great country of ours.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.