# CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS
## `d5231cc16950943498692791ec5ad215`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Thank you, Madam President.

Madam President, when we convened here in January, we had an 
unprecedented meeting of the new Members of the U.S. Senate, both 
Republican and Democratic, in the Old Supreme Court Chamber where the 
Senate used to meet. There were a lot of very nice speeches by the new 
majority leader, Senator Reid, and by the Republican leader, Senator 
McConnell, about efforts at bipartisan cooperation. I think those were 
welcomed by all of us and I think welcomed by the American people as 
well because, frankly, I think


they believe--and I think they are right--sometimes there is too much 
emphasis put on party and not enough emphasis put on the well-being and 
the welfare of the American people at large.

Well, we had a good start. We started out on ethics and lobbying 
reform. As you will recall, we initially had a vote to close off 
debate, and we got over that minor hurdle after that cloture motion 
lost and we were able to shape a bill that got the support of an 
overwhelming bipartisan majority of the Senate on lobbying and ethics 
reform. So that was a good start.

Then we moved on to the minimum wage and small business tax and 
regulatory relief. And we had, I guess, another period of testing 
there, people trying to figure out what all this new majority and new 
minority meant and how we might work together. Lo and behold, we got 
through that in a bipartisan way, and we passed a minimum wage bill, 
with small business tax and regulatory relief that, again, I think we 
could all look at and say: I don't agree with 100 percent of it, but on 
balance this is a good bill. This is the kind of thing we ought to be 
doing together.


Well, I would say that notwithstanding that good start--and I think 
it was a good start--we have stumbled a little bit in recent days. We 
see a resolution on the Iraq war where we have requested the 
opportunity to present alternatives that reflect the diversity of views 
in the Senate. Yet the majority leader, in his wisdom, decided we were 
not going to have an opportunity to vote on those different views, some 
of which are espoused by his own caucus. So we are not able to get to a 
vote on any of those resolutions--yet. I predict they will come back. 
We will be back on those issues. The issue itself is not going to go 
away. We are going to have plenty of opportunities to vote on whether 
we are going to support our troops and the mission we have called upon 
them to do.

But, here again, we have stumbled again on this continuing 
resolution. It is not, as we all know, technically speaking, a 
continuing resolution, which would be to continue the spending at 
levels of 2006 into the 2007 year. This is really what would probably 
more properly be called an Omnibus appropriations bill. Rather than 
breaking things down into their constituent parts and passing, let's 
say, a Department of Defense bill, a Labor, Health and Human Services 
bill, and different appropriations bills, this is one big, huge, 
appropriations bill and I think most appropriately called Omnibus 
appropriations.

Although I will correct myself. I think this is really--if I had to 
give it a name, I would call it an ''Ominous'' appropriations bill. The 
reason I say that is for the reason that has been pointed out by a 
number of our colleagues today. What it does is it demonstrates an 
unwillingness to provide the financial resources necessary for our 
military during a time of war. And I think that is ominous. I hope it 
does not give us a foretaste of the future, when we have seen our 
military underfunded at times and resulting in a later effort to try to 
catch up.

I remember the Secretary of the Department of Defense, Secretary 
Gates, just a couple days ago, in the Armed Services Committee, of 
which I am a member, said: Do you know what. We would accept a lower 
level of funding if it was kept relatively constant so we could 
actually plan rather than have the spikes and the valleys, the changes 
from year to year, from appropriations bill to appropriations bill.

But my point is, this bill, by cutting $3.1 billion from our military 
during a time of war, is simply penny-wise and pound-foolish. I may be 
too generous when I say it is penny-wise because the money that is 
actually cut from the military is then distributed through a variety of 
other programs, which means in the end, when we pay the bill, which we 
ultimately will have to pay, we are going to add to the debt rather 
than--and we have seen $3.1 billion in new spending that could not 
otherwise be done without cutting the military--but causing us problems 
by exacerbating a deficit that none of us would like to see compounded.

But I want to mention--because I just met with MG Robert Lennox, who 
is the commanding general at Fort Bliss in El Paso, TX--El Paso will, 
as a result of this last Base Realignment and Closure Commission, 
receive an additional 20,000 new uniformed servicemembers and about 
25,000 in addition to that, for a total of 45,000 people, including the 
family members who will move there. The $3.1 billion that was cut from 
this bill will have a direct impact on General Lennox's ability to 
build the infrastructure necessary to accommodate those 45,000 
servicemembers and their families in El Paso, TX.

It also will have an impact on places around Texas such as Camp 
Bullis where an Armed Forces Reserve Center is in jeopardy; places at 
Fort Sam Houston, which is a principal location for Army medicine; 
places such as Grand Prairie; Seagoville; Fort Worth Joint Reserve 
Base; Carswell Air Base; Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, my 
hometown; Laughlin Air Force Base in Del Rio, TX; and Randolph Air 
Force Base, also in San Antonio, TX.

All of those various programs to try to build the infrastructure and 
accommodate this Base Realignment and Closure Commission are in some 
jeopardy, and it is because our colleagues, the leadership on the other 
side, has determined that, without an opportunity for amendment, 
without an opportunity to vote on alternatives, we are going to take 
$3.1 billion from the military and give it to other programs and 
projects.

The problem we have in an All-Volunteer military is that we depend 
not only on our ability to recruit service members but also to retain 
those service members in our All-Volunteer military. And, of course, 
quality of life issues are very important--housing, various facilities. 
Of course, I mentioned this earlier today, but the saying goes: You 
recruit a servicemember, you recruit an individual, but you retain a 
family because it is important we provide the services to sort of 
cushion the sacrifices that so many family members make when their 
loved one is serving in our Armed Forces.

I am disappointed to see what started out as laudable efforts at 
bipartisan cooperation in the way we craft legislation on the floor of 
the Senate sort of degenerate into partisan railroading of important 
legislation. I fear what will happen is, when we come back to the 
supplemental appropriations bills that will be necessary to fund our 
military, we will then, out of these emergency supplemental 
appropriations, try to make up for this $3.1 billion.

The only difference is that it will result in $3.1 billion in new 
spending rather than the required offsets that would be necessary to 
maintain fiscal responsibility. An amendment that the senior Senator 
from Texas and I have cosponsored, along with others, would provide 
such an offset. And if allowed to have a vote on that amendment, for 
less than a three-quarters of 1 percent, across-the-board cut in this 
Omnibus appropriations bill, exclusive of defense spending, we could 
restore the complete $3.1 billion that this current Omnibus 
appropriations bill cuts. We could tell our men and women in the 
military that we not only appreciate and support them but actually back 
that up with real action and a real financial commitment to make sure 
they have what they need.

I am disappointed that after we got off to such a good start in terms 
of bipartisan cooperation, we find ourselves now where the majority 
party is attempting to dictate the terms of this Omnibus appropriations 
bill, without any input, without any opportunity for votes on any 
amendments that some of us believe are in the best interests of the 
military and in the best interests of the country. It represents an 
unfortunate and unwelcome development.

In the end, I predict the new majority will learn what the old 
majority learned, that no single party gets to dictate how things 
happen around here because of the 60-vote requirement to close off 
debate. The magic number, of course, for the majority is 60. The magic 
number for the minority is 41. That gives us the power we need to get a 
seat at the table. But it is clear that the majority leader has made a 
calculation that he can pass this legislation without any contribution, 
any amendments, any opportunity to vote on important amendments. 
Unfortunately, not only is the kind of bipartisan cooperation we 
started off with during the first month we have been here in January 
the loser, I am afraid as a result of this ill-advised cut in our 
military that our military is the loser as well.



I yield the floor.