# FAREWELL TO THE SENATE
## `d52547bb797cdd2ccb6f303f72e31f18`
`Mr. LUGAR â€” 15 January 2009`

---


Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, I rise to honor my good friend and our 
distinguished colleague, Joe Biden, who will be ending his remarkable 
Senate career to assume the office of the Vice President of the United 
States. It has been my great privilege to serve with Joe Biden in the 
Senate for 32 years. He and I have served together on the Foreign 
Relations Committee for all of the 30 years that I have been a member 
of that panel. He entered the Senate as the sixth youngest person ever 
elected to this body, having been elected at age 29 and seated soon 
after he reached the constitutionally required 30 years of age. He 
leaves as the longest serving Senator in the history of his State and 
the 14th longest serving Senator in U.S. history. He has cast more 
Senate votes than all but nine other Senators in history.

Joe Biden comes from a modest Irish-Catholic background. He started 
out in Scranton, PA, where his father was a used car salesman and his 
mother was a homemaker. The oldest of four children, Joe and his family 
moved to Claymont, DE, where his father had found a better job. It may 
be hard for many to believe today, but as a teenager, Joe had trouble 
speaking because he had a stutter. But showing the grit and 
determination we all have come to know, he undertook to give a speech 
to his entire school as a way to force himself to overcome his 
impediment. At the University of Delaware, he majored in history and 
political science, and he received a law degree from Syracuse 
University.

He started practicing law and worked as a public defender, but 
perhaps because his grandfather had been a State senator in 
Pennsylvania, he was soon attracted to politics. At the young age of 
27, he was elected to the County Council of New Castle County in 
Delaware. Two years later he surprised all the political experts in his 
State, as well as his opponent, by defeating an incumbent Senator in a 
presumably ''safe'' seat. The margin of victory was just over 3,000 
votes, but Joe went on to increase his vote totals in subsequent 
reelection races

Although Joe was elected at an especially young age, it would be 
wrong to say that he led a charmed life. In fact, just the opposite is 
the case. Just weeks after his election, his wife Neilia and his 
youngest child Naomi were killed in a car crash while Christmas 
shopping. His two other children, Beau and Hunter, were critically 
injured. Naturally, the tragedy was devastating to Joe, and he 
considered dropping the Senate seat to tend to his stricken family. The 
distinguished majority leader at the time, Mike Mansfield, persuaded 
Joe to reconsider, and he took the oath of office at his sons' hospital 
bedside.

It was the start of a long career of dedicated service in the Senate. 
It also was the start of a tradition for which Joe has become famous--
his regular commute on Amtrak from Wilmington down to Washington when 
the Senate was in session.

When I arrived in the Senate 4 years later, Joe had already 
established a reputation as a dynamic presence on Capitol Hill. In 
1979, I joined him on the Foreign Relations Committee, where he had 
become a member in 1975. We have served together ever since, and I have 
benefitted greatly from Joe's friendship during that time. I have 
always believed that foreign policy is most effective when it is done 
in a bipartisan manner, and in Joe I found an able partner willing to 
work across the aisle to achieve important victories on behalf of the 
country and the American people. Some of the battles have not been 
easy. I recall, for instance, the difficult job we had in achieving 
passage of the Chemical Weapons Convention during President Clinton's 
administration. We celebrated another major victory last year with the 
passage of the Tom Lantos and Henry J. Hyde United States Global 
Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act. Recently, 
our collaboration led to the joint sponsoring and introduction of the 
Enhanced Partnership with Pakistan Act. We have worked closely on 
legislation related to Iraq, Afghanistan, climate change, tropical 
forest conservation, international violence against women, the control 
of global pathogens, and numerous arms control measures.

Each of us has twice been chairman of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, and we and our staffs have worked with special purpose 
during those times. We share the belief that the Foreign Relations 
Committee occupies a special place in history and is an essential 
component of a successful U.S. foreign policy. It is because of Joe's 
wide experience, keen mind, steady hand and strong advocacy that he was 
chosen by our Committee colleague, Senator Obama, to be his vice 
presidential running mate.

While I will deeply miss working with Joe on the committee, I look 
forward to joining with him to achieve further accomplishments while he 
is vice president. Besides a new commuting routine, he will face many 
challenges, and I know he will gain strength from the support and 
affection of his family: his lovely wife Jill, their daughter Ashley, 
and his two sons, Beau and Hunter, as well as their five grandchildren. 
I wish them all the best as they begin this exciting new chapter in 
their lives.