# IMPORTANT PRIORITIES
## `d53ca1bf730b896f23d918a490250043`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 4 January 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I am honored to be here with my 
Democratic colleague today. I listened to the Senator from New York 
talk about our top 10 priorities. Senator Reid, our new majority 
leader, and Senator Durbin before me talked about how we now in this 
new majority are going to focus on the real issues affecting American 
families. I congratulate Senators Reid, the new majority leader, and 
McConnell, the Republican leader, for setting the right tone today by 
bringing us together this morning and reminding us all that we are here 
together to work on a very important agenda for the American people. We 
will have our disagreements, our partisan battles, but at the end of 
the day we have to move legislation forward because if there was any 
message to me out of the November election that brought us to the 
majority now, it was that people want us to get past the partisan 
rancor on the floor of the Senate. They want us to get past the 
bickering. They expect debates, they like that, but at the end of the 
day they want us to move forward.

Across this country today, American families are struggling to send 
their kids to college, struggling to get health care, struggling with 
their pensions, struggling with their salaries, and they expect us, the 
100 leaders of the Senate, to be here together to solve those issues in 
a way that moves them forward and gives promise and hope to the next 
generation.

Mr. President, that is what the top 10 priorities are that our new 
majority leader set out for us today. They are bills that focus on 
bringing back hope and opportunity for the thousands of American 
families that are hoping today that we have heard them and that we will 
respond and work hard to make sure their lives are better.

I am pleased that we are beginning next week with ethics reform. I 
think it is important to start with a strong message that we understand 
we have a responsibility to uphold the honor of this Senate, not just 
for today but for many years to come. I am very excited that within a 
few weeks we will be talking about the minimum wage for the families 
out there who are struggling so hard to make sure they do the right 
thing for their kids and to send them a message that we understand and 
we are going to do a little bit to help them.

Senator Schumer talked about the 9/11 Commission and implementing 
their report--something we should have done long ago. The security of 
this Nation, people's fear about where we are, is a message that we all 
need to understand. I am pleased that is part of the top 10 priorities 
of this new Congress. In dealing with the Medicare prescription drug 
plan, I have met with many seniors in my home State and they are 
confused and frustrated. They are angry as they fall into the doughnut 
hole and realize that the promise we have given them of prescription 
drugs is not meeting that expectation, and we have a responsibility to 
do better. I hope that we can.

I heard Senator McConnell a short while ago say he didn't want us to 
tear apart the Medicare prescription drug plan. Nobody does. We want to 
make it work. I hope we can work together in cooperation and make that 
happen. Stem cell research: The Senator from Iowa will be speaking in a 
few minutes. He has been a leader on that issue. It is about promise 
and hope for so many American families. I hope we can move it quickly 
through the Senate, through the House, and to the President's desk. If 
we have to, I hope we have the votes to override. Far too many families 
struggle today, and we should at least send them the promise of the 
future as generations before did for us. Energy independence is 
critical in my State and across the Nation. It is something I hear 
about everywhere I go.

Strengthening our military: Certainly, that is important today, as we 
know we face terrorism across the globe, and we have exhausted our 
forces in Iraq. We have to make sure that we work together in a 
bipartisan manner to strengthen our military not just for today but for 
those who come behind us.

Included in that for me is taking care of those who have served us, 
our veterans, keeping the promise we made to them when they served us 
overseas, that we will be there when they come home. We cannot tolerate 
the long lines our men and women are in, the fact that they are coming 
home and cannot get a job; that the unemployment rate for 18- to 24-
year-olds who served in Iraq and Afghanistan is three times the 
national average. We have a lot of work to do there. I am pleased our 
leader has put out immigration. This is an issue the Senate has worked 
through. It is a tough one, but it is one that, if we work together, we 
can move forward.


Many other issues are coming before us, but one I want to mention, in 
my last few minutes, is the issue of education. That is the backbone of 
our country, it always has been: making


sure young people today can grow up and know that if they choose, they 
can go to college and it is affordable.

I am especially delighted that S. 7, one of the top 10 priorities, 
addresses the issue of college affordability. It is very disheartening 
to me to walk into a middle school today and have seventh and eighth 
graders say to me: Why should I get good grades; I can't afford to go 
to college. That is not the message we should be sending. We should be 
sending the message to them that if they work hard and get good grades, 
they will go to college.

We have to address that issue in the Senate. We all know the jobs of 
the future depend on our young people today and whether they get the 
education they need, and the money should not be a barrier.

I know this issue. Money was not a barrier for me when I was growing 
up. My father was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis when I was in high 
school. There are seven kids in our family. We all thought the door had 
been shut to us and the ability to go to college. But not so because 
leaders in the Senate stood up before I ever knew about them and said 
we need to have Pell grants and student loans and we need to make 
college affordable.

So all seven kids in my family--despite the fact my dad could no 
longer work and was confined to a wheelchair, that my mom had to go on 
welfare, she had to go back to school herself and raise seven kids--we 
were able to go to college on Pell grants and student loans. All seven 
of us graduated and went on and one of us became a Senator.

We should not be shutting that door of hope to any young American 
today. No matter what happens to them personally, no matter what their 
circumstances, no matter what State, city or community they grow up in, 
we want them to know the United States of America and leaders in their 
country know it is important for them to get an education.

So as we move forward in this session of Congress, we are going to 
focus on college affordability and making sure that the backbone of our 
country is strong once again.

We have much work ahead of us. We do need to work together. Mr. 
President, 51 to 49 in the Senate is very close, but we know that the 
issues in this country are extremely important and the families in this 
country are counting on us.

I look forward to working with all of my colleagues to achieve an 
agenda that sends that promise of hope once again.

I yield the floor.