# None
## `d542a9aae75326153ba3d7496f977498`
`Mr. GINGREY â€” 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this rule and 
the conference report for Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense 
Authorization Act, and I would certainly like to commend Chairman 
Skelton, Ranking Member Hunter for standing strong throughout 
conference negotiations and representing us so well during these 
proceedings.

Madam Speaker, I think it proves, as my colleague from Washington 
just stated, Mr. Hastings, that we can, when we put our heads together 
and have that cooperative spirit, we can do things in a bipartisan 
manner, and I commend Chairman Skelton and his excellent staff for 
making that happen. Certainly, I want to thank Subcommittee Chairman 
Neil Abercrombie, as well as Ranking Member Jim Saxton, as well as all 
the conferees for the hard work in getting this legislation before the 
floor. The staff of the Armed Services Committee, as I say, deserves 
our thanks for their tireless efforts in support of our soldiers, 
sailors, airmen and marines who are bravely defending us both at home 
and abroad.

Madam Speaker, as we move toward adjournment, it's essential that we 
pass this legislation, which covers an extensive range of issues that 
are so vitally important to our Armed Services. From a 3.5 percent 
across-the-board pay raise to an additional $17.6 billion for MRAP 
vehicles, mine resistant ambush protected vehicles, this legislation 
addresses the most pressing needs of our troops during a most trying 
time for America. I am further pleased that the bill provides for an 
increase of 13,000 Army and 9,000 Marine personnel, active duty 
personnel, and at a time when our Guard and Reserve forces have been so 
heavily utilized, it appropriately includes Guard empowerment 
provisions.

Madam Speaker, although I do remain concerned about the overall 
underfunding of missile defense and the lack of full funding for our 
European missile defense site, I am thankful that the conferees 
significantly restored funds for certain critical missile defense 
programs. I am also proud, as my colleague from Washington State made 
note, that the Wounded Warrior legislation is included in this 
conference report, which will help our injured heroes as they face 
challenges encountered on their long road to recovery.

Additionally, the legislation authorizes $189.4 billion in 
supplemental funding to support current operations in the global war on 
terror, and it fittingly recognizes the dangers posed by a precipitous 
withdrawal from Iraq. By providing increased funding for force 
protection and for the repair and replacement of battle-worn equipment, 
this legislation authorizes the necessary supplemental funding to give 
our deployed soldiers the resources they need to continue taking the 
fight to the terrorists.

I am further very pleased with the work the committee has done this 
year to authorize funding of 20 F-22 Raptors, in line with the current 
multiyear contract. The F-22, Madam Speaker, is the world's most 
capable fighter, and these funds will go a long way towards providing 
stability for our forces and ensuring that America does maintain air 
dominance for the foreseeable future.

Madam Speaker, section 1257 of the conference report affirms the 
Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation, acronym WHINSEC, 
as an invaluable education and training facility which the Department 
of Defense should continue to utilize in order to promote security 
cooperation with Latin American countries. I proudly serve, along with 
my colleague on the House Armed Services Committee, Ms. Sanchez from 
California, we serve on the Board of Visitors for WHINSEC, and have for 
a number of years, Madam Speaker, and know how important that is, 
important for my colleagues to remember that WHINSEC may be the only 
medium we have to engage future military and political leaders of these 
Latin American countries. If we were not to engage with these nations 
in this way, the void created would be filled by countries with 
different values than our own regarding democracy and, yes, human 
rights, countries such as Venezuela and China, whose influence in the 
region is growing. Therefore, I am so proud that Congress stands behind 
WHINSEC.

Finally, Madam Speaker, I would like to take this opportunity to 
again recognize our fallen soldiers. A brave young man from my district 
who heroically gave his life for our country, Sergeant Paul Saylor from 
Bremen, Georgia, his remains were not able to be viewed for a final 
time upon being returned to his family 2 years ago.

Last year's authorization bill, H.R. 5122, included a provision which 
requires that all medical personnel be trained in remains preservation 
to ensure that these fallen heroes get the dignity and respect they 
deserve. This is the least that we can do for the families as they are 
grieving so much. I would like to thank my colleagues for following up 
on this measure by honoring my request for a report on this program in 
this year's bill, and I want to certainly take an opportunity to thank 
Paul's parents, Jamie and Patti Saylor, for their help in this regard.

Madam Speaker, there is much to be proud of in this bill. I again 
commend Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member Hunter for their efforts to 
keep this bill focused on the needs of the warfighter. In this spirit, 
I urge all my colleagues in these days ahead, let's abandon any 
defeatist rhetoric and any partisan bickering which only serves to 
demoralize our troops and, yes, to embolden the enemy. We must stand 
united in providing our troops every needed resource and send a strong 
message to these terrorists and our allies that the resolve of our 
great Nation is stronger than it has ever been.

Madam Speaker, I urge all Members to vote in favor of the rule and 
the conference report.

