# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d552f97f55aa0f765091e99545b74c91`
`Mr. COLE of Oklahoma â€” 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. COLE of Oklahoma. Madam Speaker, I rise today to speak about the 
challenges we face as a Nation, and to urge the Members of this House 
to confront those challenges honestly and forthrightly.

As I do, I remind my colleagues that this House is not a debating 
society. It is not a place to merely score political points or 
rhetorical points. It is a place where we should confront the issues 
that face our country and then act accordingly. This responsibility 
rests not just with the Members individually, but with the majority 
especially. We come to this floor not just to speak, opine, and orate. 
We come here to set policy, to legislate and, most importantly, to act.

This resolution the majority, the Democrats, put before us today 
presents us with a choice; but after we make that choice, nothing will 
happen, nothing will change. We will have chosen to state our opinion, 
but we will refuse to act on that opinion. Some will see this as a 
tragedy; some, Madam Speaker, will see it as a farce.

This resolution is not serious. It is a political ploy rather than a 
principled position. It is sound and fury that signifies nothing. It is 
a cruel joke on those who sincerely want to leave Iraq before our 
mission is finished, and it is an affront to those of us who wish to 
succeed in Iraq. But while this politically motivated resolution 
achieves nothing, it does have real and lasting consequences. Passing 
this resolution will embolden our enemies, it will discourage our 
friends, and it will disappoint our troops. It will raise questions 
about our seriousness as a legislative body to anyone who actually pays 
attention to our proceedings, and it will lead our enemies to question 
our resolve and it will leave our men and women in uniform wondering 
why we are sending them on a mission in which we do not believe, but 
lack the political courage to cancel.

Mr. Speaker, I am surprised and disappointed that the majority party 
would bring a resolution to the floor which condemns an action directed 
by our Commander in Chief and his military advisers yet which neither 
forbids that action nor offers an alternative course.



If the majority party, the Democratic Party, was being honest with 
their supporters and with the American people, they would have a 
straight up-or-down vote on whether or not to fund the initiative 
ordered by the President. This is the way in which we should approach 
our constitutionally defined responsibility in regard to war and peace.

Madam Speaker, I have often voiced my respect for my Democratic 
colleagues on the floor, and as individuals I do respect and admire 
them. However, I neither respect nor admire the manner in which their 
leadership has chosen to frame the issue which they now place before 
the House. My friends on the other side of the aisle have abdicated the 
responsibilities of being in the majority.

They do not want to legislate. They do not want to act, they just 
want to state an opinion. But they are stating it in a fashion that 
will lead many to question our sincerity as Members of this House and 
to doubt the effectiveness of the institution which we all love, and 
they are now privileged to lead.

Madam Speaker, the majority in this body has the responsibility to do 
more than just criticize. So, I ask, what is their plan? We don't know. 
How will they achieve a stable Iraq? They won't say.

It is time for Democrats to step up and answer these questions. It is 
easy to second-guess the decisions of former Congresses and the 
President. It is easy to reconsider one's support and the support many 
in this Congress and in their majority have voiced in the past of 
placing additional troops in Iraq. But, what is easy isn't always right 
and certainly not in this case.

Let there be no mistake. Our soldiers are engaged in combat this very 
minute. Our military commanders have voiced support for the mission 
that they have been asked to complete. General Petraeus, our commander 
in Iraq, supports the surge of forces. Indeed he says he needs these 
additional troops to succeed. Moreover, the declassified National 
Intelligence Estimate makes clear the disaster that would result from 
failure in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, let us consider what will happen if the Democrats are 
successful in undermining the mission and the objectives of the surge. 
What would it mean? What effect would this have on our forces? What 
would be the implications for our Nation and the region?

Well, Madam Speaker, at a practical level, it would certainly mean 
that our enemies would know they have weakened the will and resolve of 
the American people. They would take this as a lesson and a guide for 
the future. At a tactical level, it would likely increase the level of 
insurgent activity aimed at destroying our forces. Additionally, it 
would also mean that, lacking reinforcement, our current forces would 
be stretched even further.

Strategically adopting this resolution would undermine the 
credibility of the United States. It will make the region more chaotic 
and dangerous than it is today. I remember many Members of the majority 
party calling for an increase in the size of our force in Iraq not so 
long ago. I remember numerous statements by Members from the other side 
of the aisle that said the alternatives to success were too horrible to 
contemplate. They were right, but now those concerns seem to be no 
longer operative.

I am under no illusions that we face an easy road ahead in Iraq. 
Quite frankly, it is the greatest challenge our Nation has faced in a 
generation. However, the alternative to showing resolve in Iraq is 
defeat in the central front in the war on terror. That will be 
disastrous for the Iraqis, threatening for our friends in the region, 
and dangerous for the security of our own country.

That is why this resolution is so disturbing. Democrats want to have 
it three ways. They want to criticize the President's plan, offer none 
of their own, and then refuse to let our side of the aisle offer a 
proposal for consideration by this body. A nonbinding resolution is no 
plan for the future. It is a plan for the next election.

In the next few days, I will continue to engage in this debate and 
outline what I believe to be the real challenges and choices that we 
face, and why we must support the surge in forces. I hope that in this 
debate my side persuades my colleagues to reject this resolution.

But if they are not persuaded, then I hope they will have the 
political courage to act, as opposed to just talk; that they will 
legislate as opposed to just debate. I hope they will discharge their 
duties as a majority by laying out and enacting their strategy, as 
opposed to merely criticizing the President and complicating a 
dangerous situation faced by our forces in the field