# RETIREMENT OF GENERAL RICHARD A. CODY
## `d5972f87bd84b1d1d5297f8e6a8bd3df`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. I rise to commend GEN Richard A. Cody, the Vice Chief of 
Staff of the Army, on his retirement. General Cody is one of the 
Nation's finest military officers, and, with a career that spans over 
36 years in the Army, he leaves behind a stronger, more experienced, 
and more professional fighting force. Vermont is proud to call General 
Cody a native, and there is little doubt that his time growing up in 
our State capital, Montpelier, instilled in him a deep sense of loyalty 
and public service.



From the day of his commissioning to his last formal day in the 
service, General Cody made an indelible mark as an aviator, not just as 
an officer who could wield an Apache or Blackhawk with impressive 
precision and skill, but as a leader who inspired other aviators and 
maintainers to do their best. He competently led such prestigious and 
capable aviation units as the 160th Special Operations Regiment and the 
101st Airborne Division. In the early stages of the first gulf war, he 
headed up one of the earliest and strategically critical aerial 
attacks, paving the way for subsequent air and ground forces. He 
amassed an impressive 5,000 hours of flight time.

It was that quality to inspire and to lead through example that 
elevated General Cody to the higher ranks of the U.S. Army. His service 
as the Vice Chief of Staff has coincided with ongoing wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and he has helped the Army restructure and reequip itself 
for that challenging undertaking. He has always been open about the 
Army's needs, clearly informing the service's civilian leaders, the 
media, and Congress about the tools necessary to carry out its 
missions. He has been involved in some vigorous debates in the 
Pentagon, out of which emerged sensible approaches to activation and 
equipping of the Reserves, including the National Guard. He always has 
in mind his view--built through that experience and knowledge--of what 
is best for the Army and the country. He is an articulate spokesperson 
and fierce advocate.

General Cody has always kept one foot in Vermont where his family has 
such strong roots, particularly around Montpelier where he was born and 
raised. Few in the State have not purchased a car at Cody Chevrolet, 
which is owned and operated by the General's family. He and his lovely 
wife Vicki have two proud sons, Capt. Clint Cody and Capt. Tyler Cody, 
both Apache pilots in the Army. His immediate family has had the chance 
to spend considerable time in the State, experiencing the deep 
patriotism that runs through the Green Mountains and the Champlain 
Valley. It was only fitting that Norwich University, the Nation's 
oldest military academy, recently honored General Cody.

General Cody has been open about the challenges that the Army faces. 
His forthright manner is matched only by the quiet energy he brings to 
tackling problems aggressively. He is the model Army officer, a doer as 
much as a thinker, a loyalist as much as someone speaking straight. As 
he retires, I know there are many in the Army, officers and enlisted, 
who will continue to strive to replicate the path that he blazed with 
such dynamic energy. I know he will continue to be engaged with the 
Army, and, for that--and, above all, that incredible 36 years of 
service--Vermont and the whole United States are grateful.
