# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `d615f3c62830f369a4b4edd79d4347a5`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida â€” 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Speaker, first I want to make the point as 
strongly as I can that I want our troops out of Iraq and Afghanistan 
and anyplace else in the world where they are in harm's way as soon as 
we can possibly do it without risking the security of our own Nation 
and the security of our own people.

Mr. Murtha and I have been partners in this business for many, many 
years, and he and I have both stood by the bedside of too many wounded 
troops and have attended too many funerals, and we want this over.

As a matter of fact, the legislation before us, the appropriations 
part of this defense bill is a good package. Mr. Murtha and I met prior 
to him submitting this to the full Appropriations Committee and we 
agreed. Basically I told Mr. Murtha that these are about the same 
numbers that I would have recommended if I were still the chairman. But 
we did agree to disagree on the issue of the restrictive language on 
the conduct of the battlefield.

My memory takes me back, as we discuss this legislation now, to 
October of 1983, where terrorists attacked the Marine barracks in 
Beirut. The Marines there on a peacekeeping mission and 241 of our 
troops were killed. In February of 1993, the World Trade Center was 
bombed, as Chairman Lewis noted in his comments. Six lives were lost.



In June of 1996, Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia, where our airmen were 
being housed, was bombed. Nineteen American lives were lost. August of 
1998, our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania were bombed by terrorists 
again. Two hundred fifty-nine lives were lost. October of 2000, the USS 
Cole off the shore of Yemen was bombed by terrorists. Again, 17 
American lives lost, and almost every crewman on the ship injured.

But all this time nothing happened except a lot of rhetoric. Well, we 
talked a lot. We were going to hunt them down. And you can run, but you 
can't hide.

But finally, after September 11, the people of America were so 
incensed by what they saw with the airplanes flying into the two World 
Trade Centers, the airplane flying into the ground in Pennsylvania, in 
or near Mr. Murtha's district, and the airplane flying into the 
Pentagon right across the river, killing some 3,000 innocent people. 
The people of America were incensed. They demanded action. The 
President of the United States promised action, and the Congress 
provided action. And subsequently, our troops are in Afghanistan and 
are in Iraq. And it is essential that we provide whatever they need to 
carry out their mission and to protect themselves while they are 
carrying out the mission.

But now, what about leaving today or tomorrow or March or July, as 
some of these restrictions provide?

One of our great successes was Desert Storm. In Desert Storm, we 
attacked Saddam Hussein's armies successfully, and we annihilated, 
basically, his army. At least they ran away. They ran for cover. They 
surrendered. A lot of them lost the battle because the United States 
was aggressive and our coalition partners.

But here's where we made a mistake. Once we had Saddam's armies 
defeated, we left. We left before there was anything else there to 
provide a reasonable, logical government for the people of Iraq.

And what happened? Saddam responded in a vicious attack upon his own 
Iraqi citizens to continue the genocide that he began in earlier years. 
After we left from Desert Storm, he killed thousands of Shia Iraqis.

What General Petraeus and our American troops are trying to do is to 
give the Iraqi government that has been elected by the people, 
Constitution approved by the people, a parliament elected under the new 
Constitution by the people; General Petraeus said that the Iraqi 
security forces were growing in number, were growing in capability. 
Even the Sunnis are starting to join up with these security forces in 
Iraq to show a Sunni-Shia coming together. Not much, but a little bit.

But to let this government exist so that we didn't have another 
situation where we left, we didn't leave anybody in charge, and the bad 
guys took over again.