# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `d65a3d66cc2bdaf53f0753c9fbbb68df`
`Mr. KERRY â€” 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Pennsylvania for 
his comments. I associate myself with them and appreciate what he just 
said.

We find ourselves in a remarkable situation, where, frankly, there is 
an extraordinary amount of distortion and fakery taking place on the 
floor of the Senate. There is a great strategy of deception which the 
Republicans have engaged in and in which they continue to engage, 
claiming they are being left out of the process; claiming we ought to 
go back and start over; claiming they haven't been included; claiming 
they do not know what is going on. We are where we are today after a 
year and a half of effort in this initiative specifically--years and 
years beyond that if you want to go back to Teddy Roosevelt and Harry 
Truman and every President since then.

But right now we have a specific effort going. We began in the 
Finance Committee a year and a half ago, the summer of a year ago, 
where we assembled over at the Library of Congress, and we had an 
entire day during which time we had Republicans and Democrats. We 
listened as a committee to experts from across the country about how to 
do health care.

Subsequent to that we began hearings, constant hearings. And then at 
the beginning of this year, 11 months ago, we began what we hoped would 
be a bipartisan process. No chairman in the 25 years I have been here 
and working here has ever reached out as much as I watched Chairman Max 
Baucus reach out in an effort to try to get a bipartisan effort. How 
many Senators from the other side came to the table? For the entire 
summer, 3 months were taken up with the so-called Gang of 6, 6 
Senators--3 Republicans and 3 Democrats.

Unfortunately, several of the Republicans have already walked away 
because they didn't like something that 60 Members of the Senate might 
want to do. So they walked away. The Senator from Utah is one. He was 
part of those early negotiations. Then he said: I am not going to 
do this.


In the end, the Senator from Colorado, Senator Enzi, and Senator 
Grassley, the Senator from Iowa, walked away. And Senator Snowe, to her 
credit, has stayed at the table, worked hard with people, and continues 
to try to have a dialog about what it might need or not need. But 
somehow they come here with the notion that they have a right to 
dictate what is in the bill that 60 Senators might think otherwise 
about, and because they just cannot get their way on the big picture, 
they are even willing to try to block the funding for the troops in 
Afghanistan and Iraq. That is just stunning to me.

I learned full well firsthand what it is like to be fighting in a war 
when people back home are not supporting it. I vowed when I came back 
that would never be a mistake we might make again. We might disagree 
with the war, but we would never confuse the war with the warriors, the 
people fighting it.

In fact, these folks don't care, the folks on the other side. They 
are willing to just hold it hostage, do anything they can--not just to 
defeat health care because they don't like it because it is different 
philosophically from how they would approach it.

Incidentally, they opposed Medicare. I hope America hears this. This 
is the party over here that opposed Medicare when it was put in. They 
opposed Medicaid. They do not believe in that. They run around talking 
about the ills and dangers of a government program for health care. 
Which of them has brought an amendment to the floor ever or a bill to 
the floor to say: Stop Medicare, end it? They never do that.

It is a government program. How many of them want to take away 
veterans health care, a government program? They never do that. But 
they come to the floor and they jumbo mumbo the words around on the 
floor and confuse America and make everybody believe this bill is 
somehow what it is not. These are tried and true tactics. In a lot of 
places you call it demagoguery.

They have come here relying on crude but effective emotionally laden 
buzz words, tried and tested in focus groups, funded with millions of 
dollars. Where do the millions of dollars come from? They come from the 
people who want the status quo. Fourteen thousand people a day in 
America lose their health insurance. Where is their plan to put those 
14,000 people back on the rolls? They don't have one. But we do; we do. 
That is what we are here to do.

There is so much good in this bill. Is it perfect? Of course it is 
not perfect. I will talk about that in a minute. But it is 
extraordinary to me that the folks who oppose it philosophically--they 
are never going to change. They keep talking about let's go back and 
start over. Going back and starting over to them means let's write the 
bill the way we want it even though there are only 40 of us and 
literally to hell with the rest of you 60 who represent the majority of 
the country. That is their idea of going back to the beginning.

It is not going back to the beginning and coming up with a 
constructive way to approach it because they had that chance. All year 
long they had that chance. All they want to do is beat President Barack 
Obama. That is their theory.

I was here in 1994. Unfortunately it has some potency out there. You 
make the institution look bad, make the entire Congress look bad, and 
then the voters will say: O, my God, who is running it? Oh, it is those 
guys. We better go to the other guys now. Just make it look bad because 
people will not discern who is really responsible.

Let me be very clear. We are trying to move this forward. We have 
tried and tried, again and again, to reach out in a bipartisan way 
which requires compromise. Some people have come to the Senate in 
modern times with a new definition of compromise. Their definition is 
''do it my way,'' not meet you halfway, not give in to what a majority 
might believe they have a right to say is a fundamental bedrock 
principle of the way they want to approach a particular piece of 
legislation.

Here we are with some of our folks now on our side of the fence 
actually being emboldened by the comments they hear that distort the 
bill on the other side, to say: Oh, you guys better throw it in. Don't 
vote for it.

Yesterday we heard a person I admire and like and have become a good 
friend of, Howard Dean, who worked his heart out in 2004 to try to win, 
and then worked his heart out in 2008 to help elect this President.

Yesterday he wrote something which, incidentally, had some errors in 
fact about what was included and not included in the bill. But he said 
yesterday:




 Let's kill the bill and start over.


As another person whose work I greatly admire because I think he 
holds things accountable, Keith Olbermann said Wednesday night:




 This is not health, this is not care, this is certainly not 


 reform.


I respectfully--and I mean that--respectfully disagree with both of 
them. I don't think they fully evaluated what is in this bill and what 
it accomplishes for America, nor fully evaluated the realities of what 
it would mean if you said kill it and start over. There is no President 
who is going to step up in the next few years if we don't make 
progress. There is no Senator who is going to invest in a process after 
this, if we don't make this reform work now.

If you follow that kind of advice and give up now because this bill 
isn't everything you want it to be individually, then the very reforms 
people have spent their life working for, reforms that the Democratic 
Party has been proposing for decades that are in this bill, many of us 
ran on them and said: This is why we want to come to Washington to 
accomplish this--they would be destroyed. That would be it. It would be 
gone. What a mistake that would be.

The fact is, there are things I wanted that are not in this bill. I 
am a passionate supporter of a public option. Do you know what our 
public option was in this bill? Our public option, ultimately, in this 
bill required the people who take part in it to carry the option with 
their premiums, not very different from a regular plan, except that it 
wasn't for profit. It had no public money to support it, and it 
wouldn't allow public money to come in and bail it out. It had to abide 
by the actuarial


values and rules of the marketplace, the way private insurance 
companies do. But it just wouldn't have shareholders and a for-profit 
structure. It could drive competition in order to have those companies 
that we all know have not stepped up when it comes to making sure that 
they are there for the patients. Why? Because if you are for profit and 
you are one of these insurance companies answerable to Wall Street and 
your shareholders, your principal concern is to drive that profit. So 
what do they do? They hold onto the money until the last minute because 
they get the float in the market. As long as the money is in your 
coffers, then you are working the interest on it or you have it to use 
for your company. If you pay out at the last moment, you make more 
money. If you pay less than you have to pay, you make more money. If 
you cut people off, which they would do all the time, you make more 
money. If you tell people who bought their insurance, who thought they 
had the insurance: Sorry, we don't have that insurance for you because 
of a little clause down here that you didn't read, too bad for you, but 
you don't have the insurance, even though you have stage 4 cancer and 
you have two kids and you are a divorced parent, too bad for you, you 
don't have insurance. They do that because then they make more money. 
These are real stories. You can find thousands of them across America. 
How else do you lose 14,000 people a day who lose the insurance they 
thought they had or wanted?

This wasn't easy for Franklin Roosevelt when he tried to do it. It 
wasn't easy for Harry Truman when he tried to do it. It wasn't easy for 
Bill Clinton when he tried to do it. Some of us were here and tried 
with him. We understand how difficult it is. But you don't sound 
retreat. You don't ignore history and say: We are going to be better 
off by giving in to 40 people who are trying to destroy a Presidency 
and simply can't stand the fact that there are 60 votes here and there 
is a President who has an agenda to fix things. So the best thing they 
can do is try and stand and stop it.

Some of our progressive friends have said because it doesn't have the 
public option, we ought to do that. Even though it doesn't have a 
public option, the bill encourages the creation of more not-for-profit 
insurers, which I will say a little more about in a minute, that have 
the ability to drive costs and increase competition. We don't have that 
today. Is that not worth fighting for on the Senate floor and putting 
into this bill?

Again, my friend, Howard Dean, wrote in the Washington Post that real 
health care reform needed this public option to ''give all Americans a 
meaningful choice of coverage.''

I happen to know this because he and I spent some time combating each 
other for the Presidency. In 1993, Howard Dean said of Medicare:




 One of the worst Federal programs ever and a living 


 advertisement for why the Federal Government should never 


 administer a national health care program.


That shift of opinion on something as important as this leaves me 
asking whether they have analyzed, all these folks, the level of reform 
in this bill.

We need to step back and see the forest for the trees of what this 
legislation does. I believe this legislation, even though it doesn't 
have the public option I want--and there are a lot of other things it 
doesn't do that could make the bill more effective--I believe when you 
take the totality of this bill and measure it against the problems we 
have in America today in delivery of health care and you look at the 
ways in which this bill increases coverage for seniors, provides lower 
cost drugs for seniors, expands the number of people who will be able 
to afford health care, helps to promote any number of individual 
reforms, almost every single idea that is worth considering that has 
been put forward by any think tank or any group in America is in this 
legislation in an effort to do what we call bending the cost curve--a 
terrible phrase, a Washington phrase.

It just means lower the cost increase in health care. Bring it down 
so it is reasonable with respect to what people can afford in relation 
to the rate of increase of inflation and other costs in our lives.

The Senate bill that is attracting all this trumped up, completely 
inapplicable but effective politics of destruction, this Senate bill, 
in fact, provides a provision that will allow the States to establish 
health care coverage for people between 133 percent and 200 percent of 
poverty. It allows States, not the Federal Government telling them what 
to do, no government from Washington, as everybody is trying to pretend 
this does, it doesn't tell the States what to do, but it allows the 
States to contract directly with plans that provide insurance. It 
allows those States to have the authority. This is States rights. This 
is the party that always talked about States rights. We are empowering 
Governors, we are empowering States individually to have the right to 
negotiate the premiums, the cost sharing, and the benefits for their 
citizens.

Something else the Senate bill does. It provides $6 billion in 
startup funding under the Consumer Operated and Oriented Plan, CO-OP 
program. This money fosters the creation of a new nonprofit member-run 
health insurance that offers coverage in the individual and small group 
markets. Those are the markets where the costs have gone up most 
rapidly and where Americans have the hardest time surviving.

I just came back from Boston. A fellow came up to me, an unemployed 
pilot, at the airport and talked to me about the $1,100 a month he pays 
for his family premium and how it was killing them. It goes up 20 
percent a year. It is the market that is squeezing most Americans out. 
We lower those costs. We dampen down that increase, and we make it more 
affordable for people who are at the lowest end of the income scale, 
who deserve to buy insurance, deserve to have insurance. We make it 
more accessible to them and affordable for them.

The press has reported that one of the options being considered in 
the managers' amendment is the creation of the Office of Personnel 
Management-administered plan. That is a plan administered by the 
Federal Government that would offer individuals an option to get a 
national nonprofit plan. I would say to Keith Olbermann and Howard 
Dean, take a look at this. Look at the OPM-managed and co-op-managed 
plans that actually provide a not-for-profit option at the Federal 
level.

When I ran for President, I proposed allowing everyone to have access 
to the same health care coverage offered to Federal employees and to 
Members of Congress. Ask any American, do you think you should have 
access to the same health insurance that the Members of Congress 
give themselves? They will say yes. That is exactly what we do. We give 
Americans the option of participating in a plan administered by the 
same entity that administers the health insurance for Members of 
Congress. I think leveraging the role of OPM to encourage creation of a 
national nonprofit plan is a key way to lower health care costs and to 
roll more Americans into plans that devote a higher premium portion of 
dollars to medical dollars.


Some of our progressive friends have also said we ought to kill this 
bill because it has an age-rated premium. They want us to kill this 
bill because it has an age-rated premium. I don't like age-rated 
premiums. It would be wonderful to get rid of them altogether. An age-
rated premium is a premium, let's say for a lot of young people, 
because young people are healthier. When an insurance company looks at 
the young person, they say the odds of that young person having high 
blood pressure, any number of other diseases that seniors tend to have 
more because they are older, is less, therefore, we ought to charge 
those people less and we are going to charge the seniors a whole bunch 
more because they are much more likely to be a lot sicker, and it costs 
the system more. That does make sense to some degree. But the whole 
theory of insurance is to spread the risk of being sick among 
everybody.

Those young people are going to be old people one day--not a bad idea 
that they are going to be able to pay an affordable premium for good 
health care when they are older too. So maybe there is a sharing across 
the board. That is how you do your home insurance. That is how you do 
car insurance. It is spread across the entire population of users and 
risks that are within those user fields. Although there is some 
allocation, even in automobile insurance, we all understand, for age 
ratings and the likelihood that if you are young and a new driver, you 
may have


an accident, more prone, and we have some deferential there, as we do 
in this bill.

People who are criticizing this bill ought to stop and take a look at 
what it does. Insurance companies are going to be prohibited from 
denying coverage or charging more because of a preexisting condition. 
How many people in America complain: I can't get insurance. They turned 
me down because, once upon a time, I had this or I had cancer 4 years 
ago, but now I am cured but they won't give me insurance because they 
think it may come back and I am going to be sick later on. That is what 
insurance is for. But companies have been allowed to say no. This bill 
will prohibit companies from denying insurance to people because they 
have a preexisting condition.

I introduced the Women's Health Insurance Fairness Act, which 
prevents insurers in the individual market from charging women higher 
premiums than men. That is what has been happening all this time. I am 
happy to say that in this legislation, in our bill, we prohibit 
discrimination in those premium increases for women. Insurance 
companies will also be prohibited from dropping coverage once someone 
becomes seriously ill, and they are going to be required to renew your 
coverage each year. Why would Americans across the board not say: Wow, 
you guys are going to protect me so I can't be kicked off. You are 
going to guarantee that I can buy it, even though I had a preexisting 
condition. That sounds pretty reasonable to me.

Our colleagues don't come to the floor and talk about that. They just 
use a lot of scare tactics, pretending they don't know what is in the 
bill. They know what is in this bill because we did it in the HELP 
Committee, and we did it in the Finance Committee, and we have been 
doing it for 11 months. So insurance companies are going to be 
prohibited from providing a lifetime cap or an unreasonable annual 
limit on coverage. That sounds pretty reasonable to me.


Now, I also wish the bill would include an age rating so that 
insurance could not charge older Americans more. I hope older Americans 
are listening to this carefully because the fact is, the Senate bill 
imposes a 3-to-1 limit on age rating, i.e. the rating charged seniors 
is restricted to three times the level of premium that is charged to a 
young person.

A lot of people are going to react: Oh my God, you mean I am going to 
pay three times more than a young person? That doesn't sound fair to 
me. Guess what. When it began in the bill, it was 5 to 1. Under current 
state, premiums can be 25 to 1. There are States that charge 25 to 1, 
20 to 1, 15 to 1. That is the way it is today. That is what seniors 
face today without this bill.

Guess what. In this bill, in the Finance Committee, we knocked it 
down from 5 to 1 to 4 to 1, and then, in the merged bill, we knocked it 
down to 3 to 1. In the House bill, it is 2 to 1. I ask a simple 
question: Is 3 to 1 or 2 to 1 better than 25 to 1 or 20 to 1? That is 
what is in this bill. This limits the age rating disparity in America. 
I offered an amendment to try to limit it to 2 to 1, but we were not 
able to carry that in the committee. Republicans spoke out against 
imposing a cap age rated premiums.

Charging older Americans nearly three times as much for health 
insurance is by no means ideal. I know that. But, boy, when you look 
around the country, the majority of States have no rating structure in 
the individual market at all, and there is a huge rate disparity, as I 
described, in the small group market. So you have no rating restraints. 
So we get down, at least, to 3 to 1. The House is at 2 to 1. Today, in 
most places in America, there are no restraints, nothing--zero--for the 
individual market, and there are high rating bands, as I said, of 20, 
25 percent for the small group market.

Let me give you an example for Kentucky. We have a couple Senators 
from Kentucky on the Republican side. The rate bands in the small group 
market in Kentucky are as high as 25 to 1. I guess that is OK with them 
because they do not want this bill.

In Utah, the rate bands in the small group market can be as high as 
34 to 1. I guess that is OK with them.

As I said, the 3 to 1 is too high, but, boy, is it a vast improvement 
over current law.

Some of our friends have said we should kill this bill because the 
exchanges are not strong enough. Well, I have been working on the 
exchanges with about 70 different groups in America ranging from 
seniors' representatives, union representatives, small business, and 
other representatives, all of whom are concerned about the exchanges 
being strong. I am pleased to say those who claim the exchanges in this 
Senate bill are not strong enough have not read the bill. You do not 
have to get past the first 200 pages in this bill to see how the 
exchanges have been strengthened.

In the Finance Committee, I offered an amendment to allow State 
exchanges to engage in prudent, selective purchasing of insurance. 
Under my proposal, exchanges would negotiate with plans for lower bids, 
encourage plans to form select networks, and exclude plans that did not 
offer good cost and good value.

The Senate bill we are looking at now provides exchanges with strong 
authority to certify whether a plan can participate in the exchange 
based on a number of criteria, including whether the plans meet certain 
marketing requirements, whether it has broad provider networks, whether 
they deliver quality benefits for the price. They can literally 
negotiate for all of those things. You do not have that today. You just 
have plans, and you have no control over what is in them.

So we actually create an exchange that can negotiate down the prices. 
And they have the power to approve the participation of plans if they 
are determined to be in the best interests of qualified individuals and 
qualified employers in the State.

I have advocated for these provisions because of a simple reason. In 
Massachusetts today we have this ability. We do this, and it has driven 
down the premiums. In Massachusetts, we have something called the 
Connector. In fact, the exchange that is in this bill is significantly 
based on the Connector in Massachusetts. In that, the Connector has the 
ability to negotiate contracts for what is called Commonwealth Care, 
and it has placed pressure on the carriers to reduce the rates overall. 
We have had this in place for 3 years now. The average premium 
increases have been only 4.7 percent compared to 8 percent average 
premium increases for private insurance.

The language in the Senate bill is modeled after the strength of the 
exchanges in Massachusetts, and I believe it will ensure that taxpayer 
dollars are spent in a smart way. That is what this does. It guarantees 
you can go negotiate for lower premiums, so you are driving down the 
cost to the taxpayers.

This bill also will ensure that all Americans have access to quality, 
affordable health care and will create the transformation within the 
health care system necessary to contain costs. The Congressional Budget 
Office has determined that it is fully paid for--fully paid for--and it 
is going to provide coverage to more than 94 percent of all Americans. 
Even as it does that, it stays under the $900 billion limit President 
Obama established. It reduces the costs of health care in America, and 
it reduces the deficit over the next 10 years and beyond.

I cannot think of how few the times were over the course of 25 years 
where we had a piece of legislation that accomplished a social goal 
that managed to simultaneously lower the deficit. That is an enormous 
accomplishment.

This bill includes immediate changes to the way health insurance 
companies do business to protect consumers from discriminatory 
practices, and it provides Americans with better preventive coverage--
something we do not do enough of in America. We spend an amazing amount 
of time in our health care system just responding to symptoms, 
addressing disease, hospitalizing people with expensive procedures. A 
classic example of that is diabetes because we do not screen people. 
Because a lot of Americans do not have coverage, they do not get 
screened at an early stage. Therefore, when they are discovered to have 
diabetes, it becomes a far more acute treatment as a consequence of 
having gone all those years without the discovery. So you wind up with 
expensive alternatives, such as the amputation of limbs, dialysis, 
instead of having treated them earlier with oral intake of a pill or 
other treatments, diet, and other kinds of things that ultimately would 
save billions.



Well, this bill tries to encourage the embrace of better coverage for 
prevention and wellness. It empowers people in America. It does not 
say, in Washington: You have to do this or that. It is not command and 
control. It puts information at the disposal of Americans, so every 
American can decide what they want, where they want to go get it, who 
will treat them. That fundamental principle of American health care is 
absolutely, totally preserved and sacrosanct in this bill. Every 
American can choose their own doctor, choose their own plan. No one is 
told to go do this or go do that.

Uninsured Americans with a preexisting condition can have access to 
an immediate insurance program and help them avoid medical bankruptcy. 
One of the huge bankruptcy causes in America is health care. How many 
seniors have had the situation where they have had to spend down by 
selling their homes, selling--if they are lucky enough to have any 
stocks--whatever assets they have, sell the family farm, sell the small 
business because they are very ill and they do not have the money, the 
kids do not have the money? But they hope to leave that money to their 
kids. They hope to leave something to their children. Instead, we just 
wipe it out because we do not provide a lot of those folks with the 
insurance they deserve.

The new health insurance exchanges will make coverage affordable and 
accessible for individuals and small businesses. Premium tax credits 
and cost-sharing assistance is going to help people who need 
assistance. Insurance companies are going to be barred from 
discriminating based on preexisting conditions, health status, and 
gender.

The bill also improves the quality and efficiency of health care 
itself. As the Presiding Officer knows, we are strengthening the 
Medicare Program for America's seniors. I cannot believe the distortion 
that has been taking place over the course of these last weeks, months. 
Time and again, someone on the other side of the aisle will come to the 
floor and say this is attacking Medicare or this is going to tax the 
benefits.

Well, we believe--we, the party that created Medicare; we, the party 
that expanded Medicare; we, the party that has lifted a huge percentage 
of Americans out of poverty over the last 50, 60 years through 
Medicare--that it is a sacred trust, and we are going to keep it. This 
bill helps, in fact, to extend the life of Medicare. The cost of 
inaction is unacceptable for seniors and the Medicare Program that 
serves them. In fact, the Medicare hospital trust fund, as we know, is 
expected to go broke in over 7 years. This bill makes Medicare 
stronger. It makes it more sustainable. It extends the solvency by 9 
years.

Medicare currently reimburses health care providers on the basis of 
the volume of care they provide rather than the value of the care they 
provide. For each test, scan, or procedure conducted, Medicare provides 
a separate payment. So we do that regardless of whether that was 
necessary or whether it had anything to do with the outcome for that 
particular patient. That does not make a lot of sense. We do not pay 
people to build our home the wrong way, or to build something we did 
not ask for and charge us more, or a whole bunch of other kinds of 
examples. But Medicare is doing that.

I think Americans deserve to get something better out of their 
taxpayer dollar. This bill includes a number of proposals to move away 
from what we call the ''a la carte'' Medicare fee-for-service system so 
that we begin to pay for quality and value, and that reduces costs to 
America's seniors.

This bill promotes, as I said, preventive care and improves the 
public health to help Americans live healthier lives and to help 
restrain the growth of health care costs over time. It, importantly, 
eliminates copays and deductibles for recommended preventive care, and 
it provides individuals with information they need to be able to make 
good decisions about their health care and improves education on 
disease prevention, public health, and invests in a national prevention 
and public health strategy. It does all of that. All of those things 
just put to shame the idea of just scrapping this legislation.

Currently, 65 million Americans live in communities where they cannot 
access a primary care provider. An additional 16,500 practitioners are 
required to meet their needs. If you scrap this, that number is going 
to go up, and the number of millions--65 million today--of Americans 
who do not have access to a primary care provider is going to go up.

This bill addresses the shortages in primary care in other areas of 
practice by making necessary investments in the Nation's health care 
workforce.


Specifically, this bill will invest in the National Health Service 
Corps, scholarship and loan repayment programs. It will expand the 
health care workforce. The bill includes incentives for primary care 
practitioners and for providers to serve underserved areas.

Don't listen to me on the transformational changes. Listen to a 
fellow by the name of Jon Gruber, who is a very respected and renowned 
economist from MIT, and here is what he writes:




 The United States stands on the verge of the most 


 significant change to our health care system since the 1965 


 introduction of Medicare. The bill that was passed by the 


 House and the parallel bill before the Senate would cover 


 most uninsured Americans, saving thousands of lives each year 


 and putting an end to our status as the only developed 


 country that places so many of its citizens at risk for 


 medical bankruptcy. Moreover, the bill would accomplish this 


 while reducing the Federal deficit over the next decade and 


 beyond. They would reform insurance markets, lower 


 administrative costs, increase people's insurance choices, 


 and provide ''insurance for the insured'' by disallowing 


 medical underwriting and the exclusion of preexisting 


 conditions. The Senate bill in particular would move us 


 closer to taming the uncontrolled increase in health care 


 spending that threatens to bankrupt our society.


That is what this bill does. That is what the Republicans are 
opposing.

These aren't minor things. These are things we have been striving to 
accomplish here for decades. I see colleagues who were here with me 
back when we struggled with the Clinton administration's effort on 
health care and every one of us would have been more than happy back 
then to have accepted--right then and there, we would have accepted 
what we have here today. I will tell you something: We would have had 
Republicans, such as Senator John Chafee, and I think Bob Packwood and 
others at that time, who would have tried to get a compromise passed, 
not totally dissimilar from the direction we are moving in here, and it 
was totally rejected by the Clinton administration.

So now is the time to examine what we have promised our people and 
decide where we stand. We know where the other side stands when they 
say ''let's begin over,'' pretending to America there is some place to 
begin over here. They have engaged in fear-mongering and deliberate 
misinformation. Those have been the core of the arguments they have 
used, fundamentally, to stop the success of President Obama.

They are also continuing now, obviously, to use procedural tactics, 
chewing up the Senate's time. The week before Christmas: Boy, let's see 
if we can back this right up and make it look as bad as possible and 
try to make the Congress look as bad as possible; make them fold. So 
they use this idea, and they are willing to block the funding for our 
troops so we can go on with this delay. We could have voted today, but 
they have said no.

There is no reason to do this. I think there is a snow storm coming 
to Washington. I suspect they are hoping the snow will prevent some 
Senator from getting here and then they won't be able to vote, because 
normal decency would have said, Hey, why don't we convenience everybody 
and have the vote before the snowstorm, but no. So they link it to 
blocking the money for the troops. I hate to think what some of those 
troops think is going on here. It is embarrassing.

We have heard repeatedly from Republicans that our health care reform 
bill is going to drive insurance premiums sky high for families. That 
is what they say, but the Congressional Budget Office says the 
opposite. It says that the 134 million Americans who get their 
insurance through their employer would end up paying 3 percent less for 
their premiums if we passed the reform measure before us. In addition, 
the CBO says the subsidies included in the measure would result in a 
59-percent reduction in costs for nearly 18 million Americans who 
purchase their own insurance--a 59-percent reduction for a


lot of Americans out there who buy their insurance individually. You 
don't think they want a 59-percent reduction? And despite the fact that 
the CBO says there is a 59-percent reduction, they continually come out 
here and tell people otherwise. Because one of the things we have 
learned in American politics is that if you throw the mud out there, 
throw the lie out there, throw the distortion out there enough, enough 
people will hear it and they won't know the difference.

Health care reform has dramatically reduced the premiums in 
Massachusetts. Premiums fell by 40 percent. We are not here 
conjecturing as to what is going to happen. This isn't some pie-in-the-
sky theory that if we do this, here is what is going to happen. We have 
done it. In Massachusetts, we are insuring over 97 percent of all of 
our citizens, the highest level of insurance in the United States of 
America. Guess what. The number of companies participating in the 
program has gone up since it was passed, and they like it. The premiums 
fell by 40 percent, from $8,537 at the end of 2006 to $5,143 in mid 
2009, while the rest of the Nation saw a 14-percent increase. So in 
Massachusetts, premiums go down for the individual market by 40 
percent; the rest of the Nation they go up 14 percent. What do you 
think most Americans would rather have, the 40-percent reduction or the 
14-percent increase? Our bill gives Americans the opportunity to 
experience the same success we have enjoyed in Massachusetts.

We have also heard repeatedly from Republicans that this bill will 
add billions of dollars to the Federal budget deficit, despite the fact 
that the CBO analysis concludes that the bill is not going to add one 
dime to the Federal deficit--not one dime. From the very beginning of 
this debate, our colleagues on the other side of the aisle have tried 
to make the case that seniors' Medicare benefits--benefits--are 
jeopardized by our reform measure. Well, it is patently false, but we 
keep hearing it. It gets repeated again and again no matter how many 
times it has been shown to be false. The bill before us, in fact, does 
exactly the opposite. It actually adds benefits for seniors.

For example, there are new screening benefits. The bill shrinks the 
so-called doughnut hole in the Medicare prescription drug benefit. When 
we passed the prescription drug benefit, millions of seniors had a 
large gap in coverage. In 2009 seniors will experience a $3,454 
coverage gap. Even though they must continue to pay their monthly 
premium, they will receive no assistance with their drugs costs between 
$2700 and $6,154. That is a lot of money out of pocket for seniors. 
Well, we have reached an agreement where now that will be closed, and 
no longer will those seniors be out of pocket for the costs of drugs in 
the middle of that bracket.

In addition, the nonpartisan National Committee to Preserve Social 
Security and Medicare sent a letter to every Senator a few days ago. 
The Republicans and Democrats alike got this letter, but it hasn't 
stopped them from continuing to make the argument, but here is what the 
argument says: Not a single penny in the Senate bill will come out of 
the pockets of beneficiaries in the traditional Medicare Program. In 
fact, the letter adds that our reforms: ''will positively impact 
millions of Medicare beneficiaries by slowing the rate of increases and 
out-of-pocket costs and improving benefits, and it will extend the 
solvency of the Medicare trust fund by 5 years.''

To me, and to I think all of my colleagues here on our side of the 
aisle, that is a win-win for seniors, and it is a win-win for the 
Medicare Program.

Since sending that letter, the CMS actuary released a report saying 
that the solvency of the Medicare trust fund would be extended by 9 
years as a result of the Senate bill. So it has been interesting to 
watch Republicans speak about protecting Medicare, as I said earlier, a 
program that their party has opposed since the very beginning. While 
claiming to be trying to protect Medicare, they have simultaneously 
warned us many times about the evils of a government-run program. 
Again, I would ask, if they are so opposed to a government-run program, 
why don't they come to the floor with an amendment or a proposal to do 
away with Medicare? They won't, of course, because Medicare prevents 
millions of seniors from falling into poverty due to health care costs.

They also always promote the idea that competition is good for the 
marketplace, yet they adamantly oppose adding an option that could help 
provide some of that competition. President Obama said it clearly, that 
a public plan would help keep the private plans honest. I couldn't 
agree more.


Like some of our friends, some of our progressive friends, the 
Republicans have argued again and again about starting over. Let me 
remind my colleagues about one of the greatest legislators of the 
Senate's attitude about that, and one of the greatest champions of 
health care. Ted Kennedy fought for health care from the day he came 
here. One of his early speeches on the Senate floor was about health 
care. He often said that the biggest political mistake that he 
personally made in the 46 years he legislated was turning down a health 
care deal with Richard Nixon in 1971 that for the first time would have 
required all companies to provide a health plan for their employees, 
with Federal subsidies for low-income workers. That is how far the 
Republican Party has drifted from one of their own Presidents who, most 
people would agree, despite what happened in terms of what cost him the 
presidency, that he was a strong and capable President with respect to 
social policy in America.

The fact is that for the first time, all companies would have been 
required to cover their employees. That is the plan Richard Nixon 
offered Ted Kennedy and Ted Kennedy made the mistake of turning it 
down. He backed away from that deal under heavy pressure from fellow 
Democrats who wanted to hold out for a single-payer system once the 
party recaptured the White House in the wake of the Watergate scandal.

Well, 38 years have passed and single payer is still out of reach; 
not even on the table. Some people want to give up what we have 
available to us here and repeat that greatest mistake.

The lesson Teddy learned is this: that when it comes to historic 
breakthroughs in America, especially in social policies, you make the 
best deal you can and then immediately start pushing for ways to 
improve the deal.

Let me share a quick story with my colleagues. We all remember how 
Ted Kennedy on the floor of the Senate kept pushing and pushing to 
raise the minimum wage, which hadn't been raised in years. Finally, he 
pushed so hard that Robert Dole, who was then the majority leader and 
who was then running for President, decided he couldn't run for 
President while Ted Kennedy was pushing that hard, tying up the Senate, 
to get the legislation passed. It might raise people just a little bit; 
it wouldn't even get them up to par. Robert Dole resigned from the 
Senate to go run for President. He said, Ted Kennedy doesn't run the 
world, but he did.

Trent Lott came in. Senator Lott from Mississippi became the majority 
leader. He vowed the same thing. He said: This isn't going to happen. 
Within months, within months, Senator Kennedy was doing the same thing 
again, pushing for the rise in the minimum wage. Senator Lott acceded 
to him. We got the minimum wage passed. And at a rally where he was 
celebrating the rise of the minimum wage, which was then not even up to 
par, he was in the victory moment and he turned to Congressman George 
Miller and he said: I am introducing a bill to raise the minimum wage. 
George Miller said, What do you mean? We haven't even let the dust 
settle. He said, We have to move on this.

That is what is going to happen with this bill. We all know there are 
things we are going to have to watch, there are things we are going to 
have to do, things we are going to have to improve, things that aren't 
in it that we want to get in it. But to pass up the opportunity for all 
of the things I have talked about and listed would be an enormous--an 
enormous--mistake.

Since 1965, when Medicare and Medicaid were created, they have 
involved and improved over the years.

When Medicare first passed, it didn't cover individuals with 
disabilities or individuals with end-stage renal disease. Now it does. 
Similarly, Medicaid evolved to allow States to cover additional 
services such as home- and community-based care. Now, both Medicare and 
Medicaid are indispensable elements of the social contract of the 
United States.



Our march to this point has been too long and too slow--almost a 
century, in fact. It began in 1912 when Teddy Roosevelt ran for 
President promising government protection against, as he put it, ''the 
hazards of sickness.'' There have been fits and starts ever since--
through the shouting and distortions and big interests clinging to the 
status quo, and we cannot allow that to continue any longer.

We know the legislative process is a long one. But 97 years is way 
too long for America to finally join the other major industrialized 
nations in guaranteeing health care for all of our people. That we are 
here today, with an opportunity to take a giant step, shows not only 
what a challenge this undertaking has been, but it shows what hard 
work, skill, and dedication a lot of Senators have shown trying to get 
us here.

I particularly applaud the effort of Senator Reid, who personally has 
sacrificed the effort to help move this, and the entire leadership, 
including Senator Baucus, chairman of the Finance Committee, and 
Senator Dodd, of the HELP Committee, who was carrying that load for 
Senator Kennedy. Tom Harkin is now doing that job, and he and Barbara 
Mikulski and Jeff Bingaman were central to shaping what is coming to 
the floor.

Hundreds of Republican amendments were accepted during that process. 
Senator Baucus considered hundreds of amendments on the Republican 
side. The bill is not perfect. Tell me what bill is. All of us would 
like to change it here and there, but none of us can credibly claim we 
didn't get a chance to have input to this bill.

Make no mistake, this legislation, with cooperation and 
bipartisanship, can make history and improve the lives of Americans for 
decades to come, and that is important to this country and to our 
economy. It can help change who we are as a country. Ninety-four 
percent of Americans will have health care. Just think of that. If we 
do nothing, things are only going to get worse--more expense, more 
bankruptcies, and more people without coverage.

I can't help but think how often we have private conversations around 
here at the Prayer Breakfast, at the National Prayer Breakfast, at the 
Senate Prayer Breakfast, and in private conversations about what the 
duties and obligations are of good adherence to most of the organized 
religions of the world and certainly most of the philosophies of the 
world. They all embrace a component of the Golden Rule. You can go to 
any Scripture and you can read about one person's human responsibility 
to another human. These kinds of opportunities to live up to those 
guidelines, these values, don't come very often. Many of us here saw 
that pass in 1993. We learned a lot of tough lessons then.

I say to my progressive friends in this country, after that, we did a 
little better with the Children's Health Insurance Program, and we did 
better with portability and little pieces here and there. But still the 
system is out of whack and gets more expensive, and still more 
Americans lose their health insurance. Still, we wind up with 
institutionalized unfairness.

I remind my colleagues of when Ted Kennedy worked on the Children's 
Health Insurance Program. Do you know who the minority cosponsor was? 
It was Orrin Hatch. He said that passing it was the mark of a 
compassionate, caring Congress. We still have millions of kids who are 
not covered by health insurance.

Compassion can be the mark of this Congress, if we act with respect, 
courage, and with cooperation. I don't think we can stop now. I don't 
think there is any object but to get this job done after all these 
years.

I yield the floor.