# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS
## `d699f13a38ee94de0386cf029f6a9591`
`Mr. BROWNBACK â€” 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, this is the Lieberman-Brownback 
amendment; and several others are on the amendment as well. I have 
worked on this issue for some period of time. Over the past 4 years, we 
have been able to get some funding for democracy-building activity 
inside of Iran. It has been a difficult project. We have not been able 
to get much money secured, but it follows a long tradition of 
successful efforts at targeting regimes that do not support democracy, 
that undermine democracy, indeed, even support terrorism around the 
world, by building civil society organizations within that country.

It is very interesting to me you can get a message into Iran, and 
there is a good possibility, there is an excellent prospect of building 
civil society organizations inside Iran. You can look at some of the 
things that have taken place recently where there has been a bus driver 
strike and the possibility of a labor union movement forming there or 
even with some of the teacher strikes or some of the student strikes.

You are clearly seeing the people inside Iran are opposed to the 
regime. We


need to work, I believe, with them and with others to form civil 
society organizations inside Iran to go at the regime itself, and to 
undermine the regime itself, of saying: If you are not going to support 
our civil rights here, we are going to oppose you.

We saw some of these things taking place with some fruit of success 
inside the Ukraine, where you had a revolution that took place there, 
where you had a number of civil society organizations that had built up 
over a period of years, over time, so that when there was a movement of 
the people where they decided they didn't like that autocratic 
dictatorship, that autocratic rule that was taking place, there was an 
underlying group that said: Yes, here is where we should go as a group 
and as a society.

Plus, I think we have to recognize what Iran is. The Iranian 
Government is the lead sponsor of terrorism around the world. The 
Iranian people do not support the Government. They are in direct 
conflict with the United States now in their support and development 
and funding of troops, of people being trained in Iran or supplied in 
Iran to go into Iraq. We can oppose, exterior-wise, the Iranians. We 
can oppose the regime that way. But one of the key things we can also 
do is say, internally, there should be a development of a civil society 
within Iran, an internal support for people there.

The Iranian regime not only threatens us, they directly and violently 
threaten a key ally of ours in the region in Israel. In addition to the 
well-publicized extremist rhetoric from President Ahmadinejad, Iran 
directly funds groups such as Hezbollah and Hamas. Iran directly funds 
them, which are designed--these groups--to perpetuate violence and 
thwart efforts for Middle Eastern peace.

Their regime is engaged in a campaign against the United States 
interests in Iraq, as I have stated. Some in the United States would 
prefer to ignore Iran's threats to our operations or pretend they do 
not exist at all. It is increasingly clear Iran's leaders are 
deliberately and purposely targeting U.S. forces in Iraq. The Iranian 
regime does not want the United States to succeed in Iraq and is 
consistently resorting to violence to underscore that threat. I also 
note we are also learning of the regime's sponsorship of violence 
inside of Afghanistan as well.

In short, it is not enough to contemplate what might happen if the 
United States and Iran came to blows. Based on the actions of the 
regime in Tehran, Iran is already in conflict with the United States.

On our current course, the future is not bright. Iran is moving ever 
closer to a nuclear capability that will allow it to threaten the 
security of anyone who opposes its dreams of dominating the Middle 
East.

This amendment provides for the full $75 million for democracy 
programs. It would take the first step in this direction. We must call 
the regime to account for its flagrant human rights abuses committed 
against the Iranian people.

I have worked with a number of Iranian dissidents. I have done talk 
radio programs that have broadcast into Tehran.

The regime is brutal in opposing its own people. It is a huge sponsor 
of terrorism, the largest in the world. It is one we should oppose, and 
this is a key method that needs to be adequately funded--and I think 
hardly funded very much at $75 million. But if you cut that down to $30 
million, you are below a target that probably even can be of much 
effect at all. We clearly need to do this.

Madam President, before I yield the floor, I want to add Senator 
Collins as a cosponsor to this amendment. I ask unanimous consent that 
Senator Collins be added as a cosponsor to this amendment.