# ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `d7160b480e3d473a15c12f2da07817b1`
`Mr. HOBSON â€” 19 June 2007`

---


Mr. HOBSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

First of all, let me thank Mr. Obey, the chairman of the committee, 
for his good work with us on this bill. And I want to add my support to 
Chairman Visclosky on doing a good job on his first bill, and I will 
talk about that a little bit further.

This is the first Energy and Water appropriation bill that my 
colleague from Indiana has developed and brought to the floor. The 
first one, I found out, is always the hardest one, but he has done a 
great job and it is a good bill; and I have certainly enjoyed working 
with him this year in a new position for me also as the ranking member 
on this bill.

It certainly helps to have an allocation that is $1.1 billion over 
the administration's request. However, I do not disagree with the major 
funding decision that the chairman has made in this bill.

This bill is a very thoughtful approach to some very difficult 
issues, including investing in our Nation's water infrastructure, 
developing domestic energy sources with less impact on global climate, 
and fostering our national security through rational efforts on nuclear 
nonproliferation and nuclear weapons.

I want to comment briefly on a couple of specific programs and 
projects, including several that Chairman Visclosky has just recently 
discussed. I fully support the increased spending for water resources 
infrastructure. We have chronically underinvested in this 
infrastructure in recent years both in this administration and, 
frankly, in the previous administration.



And the hurricanes of 2005 taught us some very hard lessons about the 
consequences of such underinvestment.



The Corps already has a significant backlog of construction projects, 
a backlog that, frankly, is only going to get larger with the next 
Water Resources Development Act, which we don't have the money to fund 
that.

I'm very pleased that the chairman maintains the continuing contracts 
and financial management reforms for the Army Civil Works program. 
These reforms are critical if the Corps is to get its house in order, 
and if it is to make responsible use of the $5.5 billion we provide in 
this bill. And let me say that not fixing the Corps' problems has cost 
us a lot of money, because when we don't complete projects on time or 
don't complete parts of projects, those projects grow in cost and it 
makes the problem even worse. And therefore, the underfunding of this 
by the administration, and not just this administration, but previous 
administrations, has not been helpful.

I generally agree with the majority's priorities for the Department 
of Energy. It is essential that we develop advanced energy technologies 
that increase our energy security by reducing greenhouse gas emissions 
and lessening our dependence on foreign oil. However, I will caution 
that increased spending on these technologies is no guarantee of 
increased results, especially at the Department of Energy.

I want to briefly talk on this subject of loan guarantees. I will 
state up front that I have no confidence whatsoever that the Department 
of Energy is capable of managing this program in a responsible manner. 
That said, I recognize the congressional and industry pressure in favor 
of loan guarantees.

You may hear two complaints about our bill, that we do not provide 
the full administration request of $9 billion for loan guarantees, and 
that we did not include nuclear power plants in the $7 billion. Those 
criticisms miss one essential fact: that Congress already provided DOE 
with $4 billion for loan guarantees in the fiscal year 2007 continuing 
resolution that was not restricted to any particular energy 
technologies. The Department could apply all $4 billion to nuclear 
power plants if they so choose. But let me tell you, they don't have 
any expertise over there on this, and it's going to be a mess because 
they don't know how to handle it and they don't know how to underwrite 
these loans. But they're going ahead with the program because Congress 
is pushing them into it.

Now I want to talk about nuclear weapons.

I share the majority's concerns on the reliable replacement warhead. 
The concept of RRW has merit if it allows us to have a smaller 
stockpile of more reliable weapons that will not require nuclear 
testing. But all we have right now is a vague promise. What we need to 
see is a significant stockpile plan from the administration that shows 
how developing the RRW will actually get us to a much smaller future 
stockpile. Such a stockpile plan is also essential before we invest 
significant resources in modernizing the DOE's nuclear weapons complex. 
For that reason our bill does not fund RRW, and makes roughly a 10 
percent reduction in the weapons account activities.

We should not be spending billions to modernize a Cold War footprint 
of the weapons complex until the Department of Defense defines what 
kind of future stockpile DOE will have to support. I don't think most 
people are really aware of how this all works, but the Defense 
Department is the customer, DOE is the provider.

I am aware that there are Members' and administration concerns about 
the effect these cuts may have on weapons facilities. I will address 
these concerns later in my discussions.

Now let me talk about one that really gets me going.

There is really only one place in this bill, and I see the chairman 
smiling, where I have a really significant difference of opinion with 
the majority, and that is funding for the MOX plant. For those Members 
who are not familiar with this project, let me do a little quick 
review.

In early 2000, the United States and Russia agreed for each country 
to dispose of 34 metric tons of excess weapons-usable plutonium. Each 
country had a preferred technology for plutonium disposition. The U.S. 
wanted immobilization, and Russia wanted fast reactors. So, they 
reached a compromise to convert the plutonium into mixed oxide fuel to 
be burned in existing commercial lightwater reactors. The U.S. and 
Russia were supposed to proceed in parallel with their respective MOX 
projects. Well, guess what? The Russians are coming. Last year, Sergey 
Kiriyenko, the head of ROSATOM in Russia, told the chairman and myself 
that MOX is an obsolete and expensive technology, and Russia has no 
intention of building a MOX plant unless the international community 
pays 100 percent of the cost. If Russia has to spend any of its own 
money for plutonium disposition, then it will use fast reactors. He 
couldn't believe that we were dumb enough to still want to build a MOX 
plant in the United States. Well, guess what? We are going to build one 
because we are that dumb, I guess, because DOE and some in Congress 
still think we should proceed with construction of this plant.

The project was sold to Congress as costing only $1 billion. That's 
where it started out. The latest estimate, and they haven't broken 
ground yet, is $4.7 billion. And that's before construction actually 
starts. Given DOE's dismal track record of controlling costs, the final 
price tag will certainly be much higher. The total set of facilities 
and operations that must be completed to dispose of the 34 metric tons 
of U.S. plutonium has an estimated life-cycle cost of $11 billion. And 
the project is now a mere 11 years behind schedule.

So, what has been the response of this cost growth and schedule 
slipping and the Russian abandonment of the MOX approach? The 
authorizers delinked the U.S. and Russia project, meaning they want the 
U.S. MOX project to go forward with or without any Russian progress. 
The U.S. material, frankly, is not at risk. What we really wanted to do 
was to eliminate the 34 metric tons of the Russians. So now, what is 
the incentive for the Russians to go forward and eliminate theirs? So, 
we lost all our leverage.

This is not about nonprolifieration, it's all about jobs and economic 
development in South Carolina. Without any competition, DOE picked the 
Savannah Rivers site as the place for the MOX project. Some claim that 
South Carolina only accepted this mission with great reluctance, and 
insisted on DOE building a MOX plant so that plutonium would have an 
assured path out of the State. Well, that argument is bogus for two 
reasons.

First, the 34 metric tons of plutonium is not presently at Savannah 
River. The vast majority of it is stored at the Pantex plant in Texas. 
The government does not have an obligation to get this material out of 
South Carolina because this material isn't in South Carolina.

Second, some folks assume that construction operation of the MOX 
plant somehow guarantees this plutonium material will leave their 
State. Well, it doesn't. We have testimony on the record from DOE 
making very clear that Yucca Mountain will be full to its authorized 
capacity by the year 2010. Any material generated after that date, 
whether spent MOX reactor fuel or even vitrified plutonium, will remain 
in storage onsite until Yucca is expanded or a second repository is 
built. That means this plutonium material will remain in South Carolina 
for a long time. And during that time, they're going to be able to sue 
us for $100 million a year because we haven't moved it. Does this sound 
dumb? Does this sound like smart business? Not to this Member.


I had high hopes that the Secretary of Energy had the background and 
skills to make a real difference at DOE, and certainly on this project 
he could have made a difference. But I have lost confidence in him, and 
it started over his unwillingness to change course on the MOX project 
when circumstances changed.

There is plenty of blame to go around. Not only has the 
administration stubbornly insisted on ''staying the course'' on this 
troubled project, but the authorizing committees with jurisdiction have 
failed to exercise oversight and taken action on MOX. Even the fiscal 
conservatives in my own party, who were so anxious to criticize every 
earmark, miss the fact that this project will waste $11 billion of 
taxpayer dollars. I want you to know under my watch, when I was 
chairman of this, we gave it zero funding. And I would have liked to 
have done that. But I understand the pressures on the


chairmen on both the committee and the subcommittee. And frankly, they 
have reduced the level significantly from the requested amount.

I really appreciate the fact that the chairman of the full committee 
and Mr. Visclosky made a statement, the statement was actually by Mr. 
Visclosky and supported by Chairman Obey. And the chairman said, ''The 
MOX plant is one of only a few construction activities supported in the 
bill. And DOE is put on notice that the first sign of significant cost 
growth, schedule slip or requirements change, the committee will shut 
this project down.'' In future years, maybe this project will run off 
the rails, and I want Members to see what happens here.

I offered to the administration and to others not to build this plant 
the way they're building it. I think it's silly to build 34 metric ton 
capacity and then have to tear the plant down and send it out to Utah 
and put it underground. What I really wanted to do, and offered to do, 
was build a plant that we could design up front to where we could do 
other types of fuels in this, rather than the weapons-grade plutonium, 
but nobody seems to be listening anywhere at this point. But I do 
appreciate the full chairman and the chairman of the subcommittee and 
their comments.

I want to talk about the policy on earmarks. I think we've got that 
straightened out now. I wish it had been in this bill, but I think it's 
going to move forward. And I think we fail in our responsibility if we 
don't do oversight. I think it's good to take out both the President's 
earmarks and our earmarks. I did that before. Any new starts that were 
in the bill, I took them out when I was chairman, and I want to 
congratulate the chairman now for doing the same thing. We need to 
provide more oversight.

I really get upset that the way the Corps of Engineers is done today 
is we get no real input into that. It's all basically done by an agency 
within the White House and by some people that we don't even meet with 
and we don't even know. They are saying what's going to go forward in 
somebody's community or not going forth in somebody's community; and 
frankly, we're here and know our communities better than somebody in 
some agency that we can't find.

I want to just conclude by saying I am pleased that Chairman 
Visclosky has continued the bipartisan cooperation in this bill. I am 
proud to be a part of a subcommittee that focuses on getting the job 
done efficiently and does not let partisanship get in the way of doing 
the right thing for the American people.

This subcommittee could not get the job done so well without 
exceptional staff. I want to thank Dixon Butler, Taunja Berquam, Scott 
Burnison, Terry Tyborowski and Lori Maes on the majority side for their 
hard work and dedication. I might say, many of those people worked when 
I was the chairman before, and I thank the majority for keeping them, 
and for the good work that all of them have done.

I also want to thank Chris Frabotta, our Corps detailee this year, 
who comes from the Corps' Wilmington District and has served in Iraq. I 
also want to thank Kevin Cook, Ben Nicholson and Rob Blair on our 
minority subcommittee staff, and Shari Davenport on the chairman's 
personal staff and Kenny Kraft on my staff for a great job. We have all 
worked together on this bill for a number of years, and we are 
continuing to do that.

I just really want to thank my chairman, my partner on this bill. I 
frankly intend to be as good a partner to the chairman as he was to me 
when I was the chairman. And the only way we can solve some of the 
problems of the Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy is, 
frankly, for us to continue working together.

Despite my concerns about the level of spending without congressional 
direction, I intend to support this bill to the full. And I encourage 
the other members of the committee to do so as well.

Once again, I thank the chairman for his courtesy, and I look forward 
to working with him for a number of years.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.