# IRAQ
## `d73cf514e84264beaeeffa3829c5666c`
`Mr. SANDERS â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, the issue of American presence in the 
Middle East is of great importance. We are currently engaged in a war 
in Iraq from which, according to poll after poll, a majority of the 
American people believe we should withdraw.

In the face of the momentous elections of this past November, in 
which the American electorate indicated their dissatisfaction with the 
President's policies in Iraq, President Bush has responded with a call 
for more troops, not less. At this moment, he is escalating the war, 
not redeploying our brave men and women out of harm's way. He is 
sending these troops into the middle of a civil war.

Now there are reports that the President may be considering expanding 
this tragic war into Iran. The President has no constitutional 
authority to make war on Iran without congressional approval, nor has 
he historical precedent. I offer today a resolution ''expressing the 
sense of Congress that the President should not initiate military 
action against Iran without first obtaining authorization from 
Congress.'' The resolution sets forth the constitutional grant of 
authority to Congress for declaring war and funding any war, it cites 
Federalist Paper No. 69 on the intention of the drafters of the 
Constitution, and it cites Presidents Washington and Jefferson on the 
power reserved to Congress to authorize war.

The resolution strongly and unequivocally affirms that the President 
does not have the power to initiate military action against Iran 
without first obtaining authorization from Congress, that neither of 
the existing authorizations to use military force in Iraq gives him 
such authority, and that the President must seek congressional 
authority prior to taking any military action against Iran.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.