# HONORING BROTHERHOOD OF THE BADGE, INTERNATIONAL
## `d7deb65c27b6d0182f6e6d221d1dece3`
`Mr. RADANOVICH â€” 12 February 2009`

---


Mr. RADANOVICH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to commend and 
congratulate the accomplishments of Brotherhood of the Badge, 
International based out of Fresno, California. In the organization's 
short history, its members have successfully completed two trips to 
Iraq and Afghanistan to deliver law enforcement equipment to the Iraqi 
Police Officers.

In November 2003, Mike Harris discovered a cause well worth his time 
and energy. After hearing about Iraqi civilian police and military 
forces who were without proper gear and equipment, protecting the 
American soldiers, Mr. Harris came to the realization that he had to 
find a way to help. He has been in law enforcement for over thirty 
years and was well aware of surplus and outdated equipment that every 
law enforcement agency had acquired over the years. This non-
serviceable equipment is a burden to the agencies because it cannot be 
thrown away. To destroy it is extremely costly, and in previous years 
the old equipment has been found with criminals after the agencies had 
donated it to Mexican police.



Mr. Harris had previously been involved in another type of assistance 
to Iraqi officers; a joint venture to financially assist a wounded 
officer that had been working with the California National Guard. This 
gave Mr. Harris a good grasp of the short supply of equipment in Iraq 
and he came up with the idea to take the surplus supplies and send them 
to the Iraqi government for their police forces. After working through 
the Iraq government for a waiver of liability, as well as working with 
the Fresno City Council, the organization came to fruition. In February 
2004, five people, including Mr. Harris, traveled to Iraq and 
Afghanistan to donate vests, radios, helmets, leather equipment and 
riot equipment. The Fresno group outfitted five hundred Iraqi police 
officers.

In the spring of 2006, the Brotherhood of the Badge, International 
made a second trip to Iraq, this time the mission was different. The 
team made the trip to personally assess the needs of the civilian Iraqi 
police forces in the Salah ad-Din Province. This trip was also made at 
the invitation of General Turner of the U.S. Army's 101st Airborne. The 
mission of the 101st is to work to help the Iraqis establish the proper 
local government and police functions that will allow them to function 
on their own.

Since 2003, the Brotherhood of the Badge, International has gained 
non-profit status and has established a board that includes members of 
local law enforcement, the fire department, an elected official and a 
community volunteer. The organization has sent 20,000 bulletproof 
vests, thousands of helmets, radios and other protective equipment to 
Iraq and Afghanistan. Over one hundred law enforcement agencies from 
across the United States have donated equipment and the group has 
collected over 2.7 million dollars in private donations for the 
purchase of new bulletproof vests. U.S. military forces distribute the 
gear and it is currently being used to protect Iraqi police officers 
and firefighters.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to commend the Brotherhood of the Badge, 
International for their commitment to serve law enforcement agencies in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. I invite my colleagues to join me in wishing the 
organization many years of continued success.
