# FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `d819ab41b45bf54c83a843d9d355eb91`
`Mr. KAGEN â€” 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Thank you for yielding, Congressman Hodes. It is an 
extreme pleasure for me to be with you this evening and with our 
Speaker Braley from Iowa. The American people have been posed a number 
of questions by you this evening. I think the most important question 
was posed to our generation many years ago by Bobby Kennedy on the 
evening of the assassination of Martin Luther King when he asked the 
country this question: What kind of Nation are we? And which direction 
shall we turn?

We were confronted several days ago with a Presidential veto of 
children's health care called SCHIP. The State Children Health 
Insurance Plan, SCHIP, saves lives. SCHIP saves lives for children and 
for pregnant mothers. We have to do all we can to guarantee access to 
affordable care for everyone in our country. But first and foremost, 
what kind of Nation are we if we don't care for our children?


I have here a placard that gives us the SCHIP facts. People may have 
heard a number of things in the last several days about SCHIP, but 
these are the facts. SCHIP is a State-run private program. The States 
get grant money from the Federal Government to run their own programs. 
It focuses on the poorest working families in America, families that 
earn just above what would qualify for welfare or Medicaid health care 
coverage. It also provides $3.50 cost per child per day. Now, if you 
want to compare what you can do with your hard-earned tax dollars, you 
can invest $3.50 of your hard-earned tax money into the health care for 
children who need it most, and on 1 day we are currently spending $330 
million to $400 million a day in the sands of Iraq.

Now, where I come from in northeast Wisconsin people are asking me 
this question: ''Doc, how can I get my country back? I want my country 
back.'' We need to create jobs here in America, not overseas. SCHIP 
fact Number 4, who is eligible? The poorest working people in America. 
People that are three times the Federal poverty rate, which is just 
under $58,000, $59,000 per year. Also, who is it going to cover? It is 
going to cover 10 million, 10.8 million, we hope, children who need 
access to their pediatricians, children who require their family 
practitioner to guide them and make them healthy.

If our children are not healthy, they can't learn in school. If they 
are unable to learn in school and progress with their education, what 
kind of future do they have? Our children, after all, are our own 
future. Our future depends on the good health of our children.

So these are the SCHIP facts that we are going to be taking about in 
the next several days. You will see more and more Congressmen and 
Congresswomen talking about health care for children. But I haven't 
seen in my medical practice over 30 years a single child in my 
examination room without a mother, a father, or a caregiver.

So we have to begin to broaden this discussion not just about 
children's health care, but access to health care for every citizen 
everywhere in these United States. So SCHIP is a proven program. I hold 
it against no one that it started out as a Republican program. It is a 
Republican-inspired private program administered by States with moneys 
appropriated through the Federal Government. It focuses on working 
families, the poorest among us, and focuses on putting children first.

It only involves U.S. citizens. If you are not a citizen, you are not 
a legal resident, you are not going to get these benefits that come 
with it. It is a private, private-run plan, private doctors, private 
health care plans, and children up to 19 years of age can be covered.

This is a program that works for kids. In my view, in the view of 
most people living throughout the United States and especially 
northeast Wisconsin, the President was being morally unresponsible. It 
is morally unacceptable to say ''no'' to our children.

I yield back my time for a few moments, to my good colleague from New 
Hampshire as we talk more about health care and its relationship to 
Iraq. Because the way I look at it, Iraq is a health care issue. They 
are using real bullets, real people are being killed, about 700,000 
Iraqi civilians are dead, and they are not coming back. Thousands of 
our soldiers have given everything, have given their lives as they have 
served with courage, with honor and with incredible skill. We have done 
our job in Iraq. We have taken down Saddam. We have done everything the 
Iraqi Parliament needed us to do for them to help them in their 
religious civil war.

