# HOUSING CRISIS
## `d853efbd68ee4eccda3f0affb65cd40b`
`Mr. REID â€” 3 March 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, you can't bring back to the table someone 
who never left. My friend, the distinguished Senator from Kentucky, 
says he would hope we would come back to the table. We never left.

Procedurally, we have a unique situation here where you have to move 
to proceed to a piece of legislation. In years past, it was fairly 
easy, just move toward it, and then you got into a position at that 
time where you started legislating. If people wanted to offer 
amendments, they would do that. But since we have gotten into the 
majority, the Republicans basically have prevented us from doing that.

Our legislation is so concise and direct, so easy to understand. The 
President has tried to work through the Treasury Department. They have 
come up with a couple things that deal with less than 3 percent of the 
people in trouble, less than 3 percent, and it is all voluntary.

Our legislation has five issues. Our plan helps families keep their 
homes by increasing preforeclosure counseling funds. What does this 
mean? We, in our last legislation, put $200 million in that legislation 
to allow people to have counselors. They help a great deal. The reason 
we did that, in a time of foreclosure, panic around this country, the 
President cut funds, for example, in Nevada, for these nonprofit 
counselors, by 70 percent. You should be increasing them. He cut them. 
That money is gone. Our legislation calls for more money to keep people 
in their homes so they can have some counseling.

Our legislation expands refinancing opportunities for homeowners 
stuck in bad loans. President Bush, in his State of the Union Message, 
called for a proposal to allow a process to go forward where you would 
have bonds to work on homes that were being foreclosed upon and homes 
that would soon be foreclosed upon. We support that. That is in our 
bill.

Our legislation provides funds to help the highest need communities 
purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed properties, CDBG moneys going to 
these communities that really need to do something about these homes.



Our legislation helps families avoid foreclosure in the future by 
improving loan disclosures and transparency during the original loan 
financing process--something Jack Reed has advocated for some time.

Finally, it amends the Bankruptcy Code to allow home loans on a 
primary residence to be modified, only in certain circumstances with 
very strict guidelines.

Those are the five things. If the minority was serious about doing 
something with this legislation, they could offer amendments. If they 
don't like the bankruptcy provision, which they profess not to, let 
them move to strike it, let them move to modify it in some way. If they 
don't like any of these other four provisions--money for counselors, 
making it more transparent--let them offer amendments to strike them. I 
can't advocate strongly enough that if they don't like what we have, 
they can move to change it.

I have people on my side who would like to improve our bill. We can 
offer amendments. As I said, we can offer three, five on each side. It 
seems fair. But sadly, when the press conference was held last week on 
the Republicans' proposal to take care of the housing crisis, they want 
to lower taxes and they want to have tort reform.

To talk about our budget expending more taxpayers' dollars, we need 
only go back and look at how I started my remarks today. Today, we will 
spend $400 million on the war in Iraq, borrowed money. We don't have 
enough money under the present standard to have more than one person 
looking at the consumer safety commission--toys, for example, that come 
into this country. So we are willing to work. We are willing to 
legislate. It has been extremely difficult with 72 filibusters so far 
this Congress. But maybe today will bring a new day. Maybe we can move 
to the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which is a bipartisan piece 
of legislation, by the way. I would hope after that we don't have to 
use up the 30 hours. We can start this afternoon offering amendments on 
this legislation, doing opening statements. But maybe if we spend a 
couple days on this legislation, we can spend the rest of the week--if 
the Republicans finally decide what they want to do on the housing 
stimulus package--and finish that before we start the budget battle 
next week.

I thank the Chair.