# EXECUTIVE SESSION F_____
## `d8f3c77c1833d864b072e3bae2a70770`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I come to the floor this morning to express 
my support for the nomination of LTG David H. Petraeus, U.S. Army, for 
appointment to the grade of General and assignment as Commander, 
Multinational Force--Iraq.

General Petraeus is presently serving as Commanding General, U.S. 
Army Combined Arms Center, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, the Army's leader 
development, professional military education, doctrine development, and 
lessons learned center. This is the place where the Army focuses its 
attention and its greatest professional capabilities on developing 
leaders, on military education, on developing doctrine, and on learning 
the lessons from previous conflicts and challenges. As a matter of 
fact, the Army and Marine Corps' newly issued counterinsurgency manual 
was written under the command and guidance of General Petraeus at 
Leavenworth.

General Petraeus had two previous tours of duty in Iraq. The first 
was in 2003 when he was Commanding General of the 101st Airborne 
Division, which was headquartered in Mosul, Iraq. General Petraeus' 
second tour in Iraq was from May 2004 to September 2005, when he was 
Commander, Multinational Security Transition Command--Iraq/Commander, 
NATO Training Mission--Iraq. In that capacity, he was responsible for 
the organizing, training, and equipping of Iraqi security forces.

General Petraeus' nomination to become the Commander of Multinational 
Forces--Iraq may be the single most important command in the Nation's 
defense establishment. The Nation will entrust him with the operational 
command and the welfare of over 130,000 American service members who 
are presently in Iraq, and of those who may be deployed to Baghdad as 
part of the President's planned increase in the middle of a protracted 
and bloody sectarian battle over the future of Iraq.

General Petraeus is professionally qualified for this command. He is 
widely recognized for the depth and breadth of his education, training, 
and operational experience. Noteworthy is his recent leadership of the 
new Army/Marine Corps manual. He testified that he believes the new 
military strategy for Iraq will work, and that the U.S. military forces 
under his command will be able to successfully accomplish their 
mission. We would not want a commander who did not believe in his 
mission and in the troops under his command. I pray he is correct.

I am obviously very concerned over a strategy that relies on the 
Iraqis meeting their commitments when they have repeatedly failed to do 
so in the past. I am obviously concerned about a strategy which is 
based on an increased military presence, when expert after expert, 
including military commander after military commander, has told us 
there is no military solution in Iraq; that the only way to end the 
violence in Iraq is for the Iraqis to reach a political settlement.

I am deeply concerned that this new strategy, I believe, is based on 
the wrong assumption--that there is a military solution to a sectarian 
war--when in fact the only solution to a sectarian conflict is for 
those groups to finally share power, share resources, including 
resolving the differences over autonomy that can end the violence. That 
is not just me saying that; that is also what the Iraqi President has 
said repeatedly--that it is the Iraqi political leaders' failure to 
reach a political settlement that is the cause of the continuing 
violence.


That being the case, I don't believe--and I don't think a majority of 
this body believes--that an increase in troops going into the middle of 
the neighborhoods of Baghdad and staying there--''holding,'' as we 
say--is going to contribute to a successful conclusion of our presence 
in Iraq. It is not going to help the Iraqis succeed, to put our troops 
in their neighborhoods in the middle of the sectarian strife. We are 
going to add targets without adding to the essential need of the Iraqis 
to face a reality--to stare at their options, to look into an abyss--
civil war or one nation? That has to be their choice. We cannot make it 
for them. We can make it easier or harder for them to do it.

The question is whether adding troops into that sectarian cauldron is 
going to contribute to their reaching a political solution or indeed 
will delay the day, as some of our commanders have said, when they will 
reach a political settlement. As a matter of fact, General Casey, the 
current commander, emphasized this point on January 2:

The longer we in the U.S. continue to bear the main burden of Iraq's 
security, it lengthens the time that the government of Iraq has to make 
the hard decisions about reconciliation and dealing with the militias.

General Abizaid said the following:




 It's easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us to do the work.


Then he said this:




 I believe that more American forces prevents the Iraqis 


 from doing more, from taking responsibility for their own 


 future.


That is what General Abizaid said in November.

So those are the expressions of our top military commanders who are 
there now. I believe they are right. But we need a commander in Iraq. 
General Casey is retiring. The question is not whether we agree with a 
particular strategy--and we will have an opportunity, hopefully next 
week, to vote on whether we agree with the increase of the American 
military presence as a way of pressuring the Iraqis or taking the heat 
off of their political leaders to reach a political solution. We will 
debate that issue.

But we need a commander. We have a qualified commander who has been 
nominated. There are other issues General Petraeus is going to have to 
face. General Keane, yesterday, pointed this out. We had a hearing in 
front of the Armed Services Committee yesterday. General Keane was 
there, along with former Secretary of Defense Perry and Ambassador 
Ross. General Keane pointed out yesterday that we have a significant 
problem which is going to face General Petraeus in Baghdad other than 
the violence, other than inserting American forces into neighborhoods 
and trying to hold them with American forces, with an American face, 
with an American uniform. That is a big enough problem. But the command 
arrangements are such that U.S. and Iraqi forces are going to be 
operating side by side in those neighborhoods under two separate chains 
of


command, violating the unity of command principle that is so ingrained 
in U.S. military doctrine and, indeed, is one of the key principles in 
that counterinsurgency manual which General Petraeus helped to create. 
He must have unity at the command. They must agree down there on those 
streets: Yes or no, are we going into that house or not?


Now, who goes into that house is a critically important issue. Many 
of us don't believe it ought to be an American tip of the spear; that 
the Iraqi forces have been trained, 150,000 or more, to protect their 
country, and they should be the tip of the spear. That is one issue. 
There is a great dispute over that issue.

That goes to the heart of the matter as to whether more American 
troops are going to help solve this problem. But it complicates the 
problem, it exacerbates the problem when you have two commanders on the 
ground side by side who have two different chains of command who may 
have two different opinions as to who ought to go into that house or 
whether that house ought to be entered. That has not been resolved. 
That is what General Petraeus is also going to have to face.

General Keane, who is former Vice Chief of Staff for the Army, just 
yesterday expressed his strong concern about the command arrangements 
but said he was confident that General Petraeus had the ability to 
revise the arrangements so that there could be a unity of command. I 
hope he is right.

It may be a superhuman task. It may be an impossible task. It is not 
a task which ought to face a commander. These issues ought to be worked 
out in advance of forces entering into combat situations. But they are 
not worked out. So General Petraeus has to figure that out as well as 
the major issues that he is going to face.

Mr. President, did I yield myself a particular amount of time?