# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `d9540d889e1007a6593d3d263622a1f2`
`Mr. COLEMAN â€” 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. COLEMAN. Mr. President, I was in Iraq this weekend, and I was 
there in December, right before Christmas, with my friend, Senator 
Nelson of Florida. Our meetings at that time took place in the shadows 
of the 2006 Congressional elections and in the wake of the much 
anticipated Iraq Study Group report. During each of our visits at that 
time, the atmosphere exuded a feeling of transition, a desire to get 
out of the constant struggle of lateral movement to a feeling of 
longing for a new strategy, long overdue in Iraq. On January 10, we 
learned the details of that new strategy. It wasn't exactly what many 
of us expected and it raised some particular concerns for me. Two weeks 
earlier when I was in Iraq, I met with the National Security Adviser 
for the Prime Minister of Iraq, Dr. al-Rubaie, and he told Senator 
Nelson and me he didn't think sectarian violence was the biggest 
problem in Iraq. To express that kind of denial was incredulous. 
Senator Nelson and I kind of looked at each other. His comments 
reflected to me at that time that I didn't think the Iraqi Government 
had the commitment to reconciliation needed to warrant an increase in 
U.S. forces in Baghdad and in an area wracked by sectarian civil war.

So at the time I stated the idea of sending an additional force of 
20,000 troops into Baghdad, into the lion's den of sectarian violence 
without any additional commitment from the Iraqi Government was 
something I did not feel I could support. Because of the duty we share 
as Members of this deliberative body, I put myself on record expressing 
my views. I wasn't popular with a lot of my constituents. I joined


the senior Senator from Virginia, a colleague whom I respect so deeply 
on military matters, the former chairman of the Armed Services 
committee, and I cosponsored his resolution expressing the concern over 
the proposed surge in Baghdad.

A slightly modified version of his resolution came before the full 
Senate on February 5, a little over 2 months ago. Although my 
colleagues in the majority at that time sought to limit our opportunity 
to amend this legislation through procedural maneuvering, I believed I 
had a duty to follow my conscience and I supported the procedural 
motion to move forward on that resolution. I joined many of my 
colleagues, mostly on the other side of the aisle, in voting for 
cloture on this resolution on February 5.

Here we are, 2 short months later, and how the debate has changed. I 
will talk a little bit about what I have seen in Iraq but how the 
debate has changed. I thought I would take a brief moment to remind 
some of my colleagues across the aisle what they went on record as 
supporting on February 5. On February 5, my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle said: We respect what S. 470 said, we respect the 
constitutional authorities given to the President, that the President 
shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States. 
Here we are 2 months later making an attempt to limit his 
constitutional authority to exercise his fundamental constitutional 
duties.

On February 5, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle said the 
resolution they supported should not be interpreted as precipitating 
any immediate reduction in, or withdrawal of, the present level of 
forces.

Here we are, 2 short months later, picking an arbitrary withdrawal 
date without the consent of our commanders on the ground and advocating 
a pullout.

On February 5, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle stated 
their belief that ''the U.S. should continue vigorous operations in 
Anbar province.'' And here we are 2 short months later and we are 
trying to pull our forces out and leave the Sunnis in Anbar alone to 
deal with the terror of al-Qaida.

On February 5, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle stated 
their belief that ''a failed state in Iraq would present a threat to 
regional and world peace.'' I don't know that many who have studied 
this issue would disagree with that notion. And here we are 2 short 
months later essentially working to ensure that this frightening 
prospect materializes.

On February 5, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle commended 
our troops in the field, agreeing that they have served our country 
''with the bravery and professionalism consistent with the finest 
traditions of the U.S. Armed Forces.'' But here we are today, 
reflecting on comments that they have ''lost'' the war in Iraq.

Most importantly, on February 5, my colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle stated their belief that the U.S. ''should not take any 
action that will endanger U.S. military forces in the field, including 
the elimination or reduction of funds for our troops.'' Here we are 2 
months later, conditioning that funding on withdrawal timelines to 
handcuff our military leaders, delaying the delivery of resources our 
forces need.

One of the things I heard in Anbar Province from a Marine general was 
that they needed these V-shaped humvee vehicles to protect against 
IEDs. Regular humvees are flat and they take the full force of a blast. 
With the use of these V-shaped humvee bottoms, we have not had many 
casualties. This bill the President will veto has about 8,000 of those 
V-shaped vehicles that we need.

I supported that resolution in February, but I did not support the 
bill before us today. It is unfortunate that the majority in this body 
has decided to utilize this important piece of legislation to attempt 
to set us on a course for failure in Iraq. When I say that, it is true 
this bill contains a lot of important things for our military, our 
veterans. But it is unconscionable that our veterans would be used as 
pawns in a political game, where the majority seeks to ensure failure 
in Iraq at all costs. That is what happens when you say it is lost, 
when you tell the enemy this is when we are withdrawing. I think our 
soldiers and our families deserve better.

My recent trip to Iraq underscored the fact that while we face 
formidable challenges, there are also glimmers of hope. General 
Petraeus said that to me in Baghdad on Saturday. He showed me the 
charts of the declines in the death squads and sectarian violence in 
Baghdad. He talks about the sheiks in Anbar Province coming over and 
fighting shoulder to shoulder with us against al-Qaida in Iraq.

When I visited Iraq this weekend, I traveled to Taqaddum in Anbar 
Province, between Fallujah and Ramadi, and Talil, in south central 
Iraq. I also spent time in Baghdad. We have some Minnesota National 
Guard in Talil and Taqaddum. We have a long way to go. It is certainly 
too early to tell whether our new strategy, including the surge in 
troops, is succeeding at the level set out by the President. Even 
General Petraeus has said that. Certainly our headlines here at home 
still echo the horrific suicide bombs and insurgent attacks we have 
sadly grown to expect when we read the morning paper. This is an enemy 
with resolve. It understands the impact of those actions on the 
American people.

General Petraeus told me and others in this body that he will come 
back to us in September--his troops are not all deployed at this point 
in time--and he can show the progress and the decline in the killings 
and sectarian violence. He talked about the elimination of some of the 
killing cells and some of their leadership. He will come back in 
September with the Ambassador, whom I also had dinner with that night, 
to discuss the situation. They will tell us whether they have succeeded 
in providing the stability in Baghdad that will allow the process of 
reconciliation to move forward more aggressively. He used the phrase 
many times that ''the clock in Washington ticks much faster than in 
Iraq.'' We know that. He did say military action cannot win this war. 
But my colleagues on the other side, when they quote that, don't quote 
the other half of the sentence. He said it is 20 percent military 
action, but you cannot do the other 80 percent unless you are 
successful in the military action. He is clear about that. I believe 
General Petraeus and the troops he commands deserve to be given the 
time they need before we arbitrarily decide the war is lost.

I continue to have my doubts about the Iraqi leadership. I met with 
the Prime Minister of Iraq, and he told me he was annoyed by a 
statement by the Secretary of Defense regarding the need to bring 
Sunnis more into their Government. His comment was that the Shia is a 
majority and it would undermine the democracy, tell the majority what 
they have to do. I said: Respectfully, I serve in the Senate. In the 
Senate, we protect in this country against one of the enemies of 
democracy, which is the tyranny of the majority. That is what has to go 
into the reconciliation in Iraq. I don't believe, as I listened to him, 
that he has the kind of commitment yet we need to make reconciliation 
successful. So that is of concern.

For us in this body, it is hard to think that giving a voice to the 
minority would constitute undermining democracy. We know the perils of 
a tyranny of the majority, which Alexis de Tocqueville defined in 1835, 
and that Madison and Hamilton alluded to in the Federalist Papers. The 
fact we are still trying to persuade the Prime Minister that he has to 
do a better job of reaching out to his own countrymen makes it hard for 
me to be optimistic.

Despite these challenges, the atmosphere in my meetings last weekend 
was so different than what I saw in December. The brave American 
civilians who are executing the diplomatic components of our strategy 
have a new sense of mission. I met with State Department folks--two of 
them--at breakfast Saturday morning. They are part of the new PRT. They 
are about to go Anbar Province, and they are reading in the paper that 
the war is ''lost'' and they are going out into Anbar Province to work 
on the reconstruction of Anbar and Fallujah. They are just about to 
begin their mission with a sense of hope, and shame on us if we dash it 
here. Some of the Iraqi leaders I was with reacted strongly in an 
opposite direction from the Prime Minister and clearly understood our 
commitment is not open-ended. Certainly, the courageous men and women 
in the field told


me to relay to my colleagues this war is not lost. Let me be very 
clear. I sat in meetings with members of the Minnesota National Guard--
by the way, I am unhappy about their tours of duty being extended. They 
and their families heard in the press that they were being extended. I 
complained about that to the Army and received an apology. In spite of 
that, they stood up and said to me: Use our names. Tell the Senate the 
war is not lost.

MAJ Brian Melton, from Moorhead, MN, said: Tell the Senate the war is 
not lost. Lieutenant Martin of the 
1/34th Support Battalion in Talil, Iraq, wants the Senate to know the 
war is not lost. These soldiers talked about at one point it being kind 
of the Wild West in Anbar Province and it is being transformed.

I wish my colleagues would have heard the story from LTC Gregg Parks 
of Walker, MN. He told me about a suicide bomber who came into a town 
called Habbaniyah, and he veered into a crowd coming out of a mosque, 
blew himself up, and wounded or killed many Iraqis. Not a single 
American shed blood in that attack; yet our soldiers lined up to give 
blood. The next day, the mayor and local sheiks came in and gave the 
names of al-Qaida operatives and pledged to work side by side with our 
troops to drive al-Qaida out of Iraq. I wish my colleagues could have 
heard COL David Elicerio, commander of the 1/34 Brigade Combat Team of 
the Minnesota National Guard. He told me about the ''adopt a highway'' 
program his men and women have implemented with the local Iraqis. He 
said the local sheiks came in and identified where there were two IEDs.

There are many challenges that lie ahead, probably too many to name 
here. I don't see the situation in Iraq through rose-colored glasses 
and I am not trying to paint an unrealistic picture. The violence we 
have see over the past weeks in places like Baqubah reminds us all too 
well of the struggles we face.

I know the American public has run out of patience on this war. I 
don't know what the next round of letters to the editor will look like, 
or the attack ads on moveon.org for the vote I cast; but I am committed 
to stemming the flow of terrorism, not handing al-Qaida a victory they 
will be able to use to strengthen their forces and hurt and kill more 
Americans.

This bill we passed, with the timeline for surrender, doesn't make 
America safer. I am not for an open-ended commitment or a blank check, 
but as General Petraeus has said, you have to have a plan B. If the 
Iraqis don't do what they need to do for reconciliation, we are going 
to figure out a way to get Americans out of the crosshairs of that 
civil war. Some say we will be in Kuwait or some other area. General 
Petraeus told me he has to refuel his helicopters three times to get 
back into Baghdad, and if there is a ''Rwanda'' in Baghdad, we are not 
going to be able to do anything about it. We will redeploy our troops 
if this surge doesn't work, put them outside the center area.

In the end, they may have to look at a plan B. But that decision will 
come soon. General Petraeus said: Let me come back in September. 
Perhaps that is not soon enough for the American public, but the 
decision we made today, the statement that the war is ''lost,'' the 
decision to set into place a timetable for surrender, doesn't help us 
provide an opportunity for reconciliation to occur in Iraq, or for 
there to be greater stability in the region, and it will let al-Qaida 
have a victory. A timetable for surrender hurts our warriors on the 
front line. It is a path I could not follow, one America shall not 
follow. Let us come back with a different supplemental and let us give 
our warriors the money they need to fight the war that has to be 
fought. Let us do that quickly.

I yield the floor.