# IRAN
## `d9c17df902251a7160f18f4cfc405f6f`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. If the gentlelady would yield, I just came 
back from Iraq, and you are so right. After going and I think getting a 
very wide view of the status of affairs there, clearly as we have 
understood or understand, the government is leaning on the captains of 
our military. Ranks at the captain level are like the government. There 
is no seeming intent or plan that would cease the Maliki government 
from leaning on the United States military, using it as a crutch. So 
there is no evidence that suggests that they don't intend to have 
permanent military bases. In fact, every indication from the 
presentations of the military and others is that they would have it. I 
believe they are in violation of maybe not the rules of this House, but 
certainly the respect of the three branches of government.

Finally, I would say that I have legislation that declares a military 
success, that lists the criteria under which our soldiers went in, and 
moves it to a diplomatic surge. We should not fool ourselves. The 
intent is a permanent base that allows them to do the preemptive strike 
that you are speaking of against any country in the Mideast, and in 
particular Iran. I believe we have to stop it now, and we have to stop 
it forever, and we have to lean on the Constitution because we have 
seen over the last couple of years the Constitution ignored, and that 
simply cannot stand in this place called America.

