# None
## `d9c9b5ef347d3c064fca3bc5f7a0db31`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Vice Chairman, I just want to thank you for 
your continued leadership, and point out one fact before I go to my 
chart over here.

This is not an issue as it relates to, but in the 30-something 
Working Group, and let me just back up. In the 30-something Working 
Group, we like to have third-party validators. We like to have 
information so Members know exactly what they are voting on. We all 
have to go back home and talk to our constituents about the things that 
we have accomplished, and the resources we brought back to our 
district, and where we stood up on behalf of those that needed us to 
stand up for them.

There have been 47 key measures that have passed, 79 percent 
bipartisan consensus. I think that is important because what you are 
talking about as it relates to the Senate and what I have experienced 
serving with you in the 108th Congress and 109th Congress, we knew 
where our place was in those Congresses. We knew it was hard to bring a 
consensus vote because the leadership on the Republican side would fix 
the deck so we wouldn't have consensus, we wouldn't have 
bipartisanship.

With Speaker Pelosi, who encouraged bipartisanship where we can come 
together on issues, and these are major issues, these are not post 
offices. There is nothing wrong with naming post offices. I think 
Americans should be recognized at the local post office, and it is a 
wonderful privilege that we have here in Congress to do it. But I think 
it is important that everyone understands that across the board 47 key 
measures, and you know I love charts, Mr. Larson, we are going to 
review those 47 key measures so Members know the time we have come 
together on behalf of the American people.

I say all of this to say when I spoke of the rubber stamp Republican 
Congress, and I have my rubber stamp, and that is one thing I have 
protected. It is in my office and it is high up on the top of a 
cabinet. I keep my eye on it because I don't know, many of the charts I 
have had in the past that have been very, very effective in making the 
point to the Members, I call it a moment of clarity, fact versus 
fiction, someone, somehow these charts are leaving the floor. I don't 
know what is going on. I'm not saying anything, but I would love my 
charts back. Hopefully one of the Members will hear me.

President Bush, when you look at it, and this is by the U.S. 
Treasury, the foreign debt, when we talk about this war and we talk 
about the life of our men and women, many of them will never come home. 
A large number of our forces will never come home. And if they do come 
home, a number will come back with physical issues, emotional issues or 
mental issues that we have to deal with.

So what we did in an appropriations bill, over what the President 
calls for as it relates to mental health counseling, what the President 
has done in the past and what Members of Congress have done, the 
rubber-stamp Congress, the President, over 42 other Presidents, and 
this is my old chart. It is a new number, but this President has 
borrowed more from foreign countries than 42 other Presidents. So 42 
Presidents over 224 years were only able to borrow $1.01 trillion. This 
President, $1.19 trillion at the end of the Republican control of the 
House. This is the Republican House here that allowed the President to 
rubber stamp.

Here is my point that I want to come back to that Mr. Larson made 
earlier. We as Democrats and a few Republicans, sent a bill to the 
President that we consulted generals, we had hearings. The 
Appropriations Defense Committee had more hearings than the last 
Congress had combined on the whole issue of Iraq and this was just an 
emergency supplemental. I think it is important for the Members to 
understand that we sent that bill to the President and the President 
had a meeting. Members of the Republican Conference went down and had a 
lunch. They all came out and stood behind the President I think on the 
east steps, I saw it on television, and said we stand with the 
President and we have made a commitment to the President that we will 
not take part in overriding his veto as Members of the House.

Here is the Republican Congress, here is the $1.19 trillion that we 
have borrowed from foreign nations. It reminds me of the past Congress. 
So when Mr. Larson started talking about those willing to stand in the 
schoolhouse door of good policy, Mr. Speaker, I am seeing that and 
saying, ''Okay, the American people have taken the majority from the 
Republicans.'' And I am speaking as a Republican, which is very highly 
unlikely here on this floor. Taken the majority from them and now 
giving it to the Democrats to move in a new direction. Just when we 
start carrying out the will of the


American people, Mr. Speaker and Mr. Larson, how can we stop this from 
happening? What can we do?

So the Republican says, ''Well, we don't have the votes on the floor 
because the American people have taken that away from us. Well, maybe 
in the Senate, maybe we can drum up something. We need to have 
bipartisan support, but we are not going to get it because we are going 
to stand in the way as much as we can?''


And I think it is important that the American people understand and 
Members of the House understand, both Democrats and Republicans, we 
were sent here to do something. I enjoy those Members who take extra 
time to work on the art of doing something and moving us in a new 
direction. But I see Members trying to find some sort of creative way 
to stop things that the supermajority of the American people want.

The first thing that they threw out, ''Well, the Democrats will leave 
our troops without what they need.''

That didn't happen.

''Well, the Democrats are soft on homeland security.''

Then we pass a bill that has done more than the Republican Congress 
has done since Homeland Security has been created. As a matter of fact, 
it was a Democratic idea that started the Department of Homeland 
Security so we can have the consensus that we needed. And to have the 
Republicans come to the floor and say that, and the facts are not there 
to support their arguments.

But I wanted to have this illustration here of the Republican 
Congress with the President addressing the Republican Congress, the 
President is doing the State of the Union and the picture is taken this 
way to show the Republicans on that side, Mr. Larson, to go back to 
your point, so we have a moment again of clarity, a moment to say that 
not only do we have illustrations to show how it happened in the past, 
and that is the beautiful thing about history, and it is good you can 
bring this history up, and it can be lifted off the Congressional 
Record, but to be able to let Members know that there are only so many 
times that you can stand in front of the will of the American people 
and be rewarded. Because the American people, one thing that I saw, 
last November, I have said here on this floor the American spirit will 
always rise. The American spirit will rise above partisanship.

My message to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, and we 
always say on the floor ''my good friend.'' But you know what, they are 
good friends. We work with them every day. We live the same life. Many 
of them are away from their families. Some of them are living in this 
city. They miss their family members, so we go through some of the same 
things that our colleagues do. So we are all here in the Chamber and 
our card is the same shape, and we stick it in this machine and we vote 
on behalf of the American people. But I can tell you this, the American 
people will not reward when you go out of your way to stop their will. 
That is the point I wanted to make.