# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `d9e71e368b16a697440c5acd30bb6efc`
`Mr. FEINGOLD â€” 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I am pleased to vote in favor of the 
fiscal year 2007 supplemental because it contains binding language that 
effectively ends the current misguided military mission in Iraq and 
requires the President to begin withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq. 
While this action is long overdue, it is a big step in the right 
direction and it brings us closer to ending our involvement in this 
disastrous war.

I am also pleased that the supplemental includes necessary funding to 
address conflicts throughout the world, especially in Sudan, Somalia, 
and the Democratic Republic of Congo, to assist Iraqi refugees and 
internally displaced persons fleeing their homes, and to help pay for 
U.S. arrears to the U.N.

The supplemental also contains a 1-month extension of the Milk Income 
Loss Contract, MILC, program, which fixes a quirk that could have put 
family dairy farmers on unequal footing during the upcoming farm bill 
debate. I was glad this provision was included in the supplemental and 
will work with my colleagues to retain it during conference.

I am extremely disappointed at the removal of a provision in the 
supplemental spending bill that would have fixed a glaring problem in 
immigration law that effectively labeled the Hmong as terrorists. We 
will forever be indebted to the Hmong who fought alongside and 
supported the United States during the Vietnam war. I will continue 
working to make sure that Hmong and other legitimate refugees who are 
not threats to our national security do not face lengthy and 
unnecessary delays as the Federal agencies involved determine whether 
they are eligible for a waiver that would permit them to resettle in 
the United States or adjust their immigration status.

I remain concerned at the continued practice of funding the war in 
Iraq through emergency spending bills. We should not be using such 
bills to bypass the regular appropriations process. That is why I 
supported efforts to remove certain spending provisions that do not 
appear to address true emergencies, including an amendment offered by 
Senator Coburn to remove funding for next year's political conventions.