# None
## `daa40de3df1713c8701e58fdc2f7d7d8`
`Mr. REID â€” 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, this was a good, hard-fought battle. I am 
disappointed we did not pick up one more vote, but I know how difficult 
it was for some of my Republican colleagues to vote the way they did, 
and I admire and appreciate that very much.

We are going to finish this bill today, if at all possible. What we 
would like to do is go back to the farm bill for a while, and as soon 
as we get the path forward on this bill, we will come back. My 
intention is to eliminate the tax title, and we would vote, then, on a 
piece of legislation that deals with CAFE and deals with renewable 
fuel.

Now, we, of course, really believe in the tax title, as I indicated 
in my speech before the vote, and hopefully we can work together to get 
that done. We all know we need to do renewable fuel, and really in a 
big way. I hope my friends on both sides of the aisle will work with us 
very early next year to get this done. It is extremely important.

But everyone should understand, as disappointed as I am and as 
disappointed as people throughout the country are, what we are going to 
wind up with is still historic--the first increase in fuel efficiency 
standards in 32 years. And we have increased them significantly. There 
has been a push from everybody to change various portions of what we 
have left, and there may be a little bit of tinkering with some of it 
but very little of it.

We are going to move forward as quickly as we can today to complete 
this legislation. If we have to file cloture on the rest of it, we will 
do that. If we do that, that will mean there will be a cloture vote on 
Saturday, just so everyone understands. Hopefully, this is the last 
weekend before we adjourn for the year, so I hope we don't have to do 
that. I hope we can have people working here together to maybe overcome 
some of the procedural hurdles we normally have to go through to move 
this legislation.

Also, we are going to finish the farm bill this week. Today is 
Thursday, tomorrow is Friday, and the next day is Saturday. We are 
going to finish the farm bill. I had a conversation earlier this 
morning with the Democratic


manager of the bill, I didn't have a chance to speak to the Republican 
manager, but we would like to have all voting completed tonight or 
early--sometime before noon--tomorrow. If that is the case, we have a 
number of other issues that are extremely important that we want to try 
to get a handle on before we leave. We need to take a look at the 
intelligence authorization bill. That is a conference report which has 
been completed. We also have to do the Defense authorization conference 
report. We need to complete that.

We have to take a hard look at FISA. It would be in the best 
interests of the Senate and this country if we could determine what the 
will of the Senate is on the domestic surveillance program. It expires 
on February 5. I hope prior to our coming back here in January that we 
have the Senate's position on that and we send it to the House before 
we leave here.

Then, finally, it is kind of a moving target, but the spending bill 
we are going to get from the House--I have spoken to the Republican 
leader today. We are going to figure a way to go forward on that when 
we get it from the House. It appears at this time we will get it 
sometime Tuesday--maybe Monday but probably Tuesday.

Then--there are no secrets here; I wish we could have a few more--we 
have to do the domestic spending, get that done. Also, as much as it 
pains me to say this, we have to do something about the supplemental 
appropriation for the President for the war in Iraq.

Those are the main issues we have. With the little bit of time we 
have, there are a number of holds we are trying to work our way 
through. I had a good conversation with Senator Coburn yesterday and he 
has indicated a willingness to let us move some of those. I hope that 
in fact is the case. As much as I disagree with Senator Coburn on so 
many things, I have found him to be an absolute gentleman and someone 
who is a man of his word. He has different beliefs than I do. He is 
entitled to those. He does it because it is a matter of principle. That 
is obvious. From all I know about him, it is not because of political 
purposes but because it is something he believes in. I came to learn a 
long time ago that other people's beliefs are as important as mine.

That is the track forward.
