# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `db1e49ce2deb57a7ee4280f4794f42e2`
`Mr. LEWIS of California â€” 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, let me begin by expressing my 
appreciation to Mr. Obey for recognizing the fabulous work of Frank 
Cushing. We expect we'll do more of this as we go forward in the 
several days ahead of us, but in the meantime, his thoughtfulness is 
very much appreciated by all of us on this side who have worked so 
closely with Frank on the appropriations process.

It's not my intention to speak extensively on this matter. There are 
some things that do need to be said. But, nonetheless, all of us know 
in 7 days it will be Christmas Eve. Tonight I find myself more hopeful 
than just a few days ago that we will be home, if we choose, by 
Christmas.

Tonight the House is considering a massive year-end omnibus spending 
package. I must confess that while I


know the broad parameters of what's included in this package, the 
details are still not widely known. I'm told that it adheres to the 
President's top line on spending, which is encouraging and, obviously, 
a step in the right direction.

I am pleased that, though, through the weekend negotiations Chairman 
Obey and other leaders have agreed to drop provisions that would have 
triggered a Presidential veto. Still, I'm troubled by the fact that 
these two amendments before us fail to provide any funding to our men 
and women in uniform in Iraq; yet I remain hopeful that this oversight 
will soon be addressed by the other body.

It's unfortunate that we find ourselves considering an omnibus 
package at all for it represents to, I think, both the chairman and 
myself a breakdown of regular order. I do not blame Chairman Obey for 
this breakdown.

This year the House passed each of the spending bills in an orderly 
fashion. And while I believe that these bills spent too much money, the 
House Appropriations Committee kept its word by completing its work. 
The breakdown of regular order, particularly in the other body, is 
largely to blame, once again, on our failure to complete our work on 
time in the regular order of the year.

Our Congress, our country are best served when we move our individual 
bills through the legislative process. It is the only way that we can 
provide adequate oversight, both policy and spending, that is. That 
challenge was particularly acute this year with a Democratic majority 
writing and passing spending bills that initially exceeded the 
President's budget by some $23 billion. The President has been very 
clear all year long that he would veto any spending bill that exceeded 
his budget request. All told, the House spending bills, as passed last 
summer, dramatically exceeded the President's budget request, and yet, 
for months, the Democratic majority chose to dismiss or ignore the 
President's clear intent.

We are now 78 days into the new fiscal year, and it appears that 
after months of work by our exhausted committee staff, we are on the 
verge of having a spending package the President may be able to sign. I 
say may be able to sign because this package, lacking adequate funding 
for our troops, is still incomplete. For this reason, I'm not able to 
endorse legislation as presently written. I cannot and will not support 
a spending package that fails to provide for the needs of our troops in 
harm's way in Iraq and Afghanistan. Where the House has failed to act, 
I'm hopeful that the Senate will demonstrate its leadership. It is 
absolutely essential that the Senate support our troops with no strings 
attached.

Before closing, Mr. Speaker, let me take a moment to express my 
appreciation to all of our staff. As David has expressed, the fabulous 
work by Frank Cushing, he's been supported on our side, as David has on 
his side, by very hardworking, very fine people who have been working 
day in, day out, night and day over the weekends. They have prepared 
this legislation as best their side would allow them, and our side as 
well. Many of our staff have not yet put a Christmas tree up and even 
begun to prepare for the holidays because of the work of the committee. 
Let me say to each of you, I thank you, thank you for your fine work. 
All of our professional staff has worked together as a team on both 
sides.

Again, I remain hopeful that the Senate will amend this spending 
package and quickly return it for our consideration. Until then, I must 
reluctantly urge my colleagues, I'd include in that even committee 
members on both sides of the aisle, I encourage our colleagues to 
oppose this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.