# GEORGIA AND UKRAINE NATO MEMBERSHIP
## `db347ae670e3040c10d08831608a24ae`
`Mr. WEXLER â€” 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. WEXLER. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 997, 
urging NATO to provide a Membership Action Plan to Ukraine and Georgia 
at the NATO summit in Bucharest which begins tomorrow. I want to 
especially thank Chairman Berman for his extraordinary leadership in 
moving this resolution forward, as well as his very thoughtful remarks 
in announcing his support for this resolution. I also want to thank my 
colleague and ranking member on the Europe Subcommittee, Congressman 
Gallegly, as well as Congresswoman Schwartz, who joined us in 
introducing H. Res. 997.



Madam Speaker, it is clear that NATO is at a crossroads given that 
important decisions are being made about further enlargement, Kosovo 
and renewed Balkans instability, and mounting difficulties in 
Afghanistan.

While tomorrow's summit will undoubtedly focus on these pressing 
issues, it is also a golden opportunity for the alliance to take steps 
forward to bolster transatlantic security and further entrench 
democracy, freedom, and the rule of law throughout Europe.

I believe it is in both America's and Europe's interest to further 
integrate Georgia and Ukraine into the West. Tblisi and Kiev have 
demonstrated their commitment to joining the United States and our 
allies in addressing security challenges from the Balkans to Iraq and 
to rebuilding Afghanistan.

As we debate this resolution, it is important to remember that the 
goal of NATO enlargement since the mid-1990s has been to achieve a 
broader, more secure Europe. Providing a membership action plan for 
Ukraine and Georgia would further consolidate democracy and stability 
in eastern Europe and the Caucuses region; and, is essential to 
fulfilling NATO's 1997 ''open door'' policy that ensures that any 
European nation that meets alliance standards and can contribute to 
Euro-Atlantic security be considered for membership.

Georgia and Ukraine have much to accomplish before they can be 
offered NATO membership. Since the MAP process will further require 
democratic and security reforms in Kiev and Tblisi, it is crucial for 
the Ukrainian and Georgian governments to know that their efforts and 
aspirations are supported by this Congress as well as all NATO members.

Madam Speaker, I was in Kiev just last month, and there was an 
extraordinary development in Kiev with the president, prime minister 
and speaker of their parliament all formally asking for the NATO 
membership action plan. It is an extraordinary statement of unity, and 
it is incredibly important that this House go on record in support of 
those pro-democratic politicians and officeholders in Kiev as well as 
in Georgia.

To that end, I urge my colleagues to support H. Res. 997, and send a 
strong message to our NATO allies on the eve of the Bucharest Summit. 
And I thank Chairman Berman for his extraordinary leadership in this 
regard.