# TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY ACT OF 2008
## `db5b807a914ce55c0ee8e8981f70a8de`
`Mr. SCOTT of Virginia â€” 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of 
National Public Health Week and the health bills that the House will 
debate today. It is important that we recognize and build on quality 
public health programs that affect every aspect of our lives--from 
effective childhood vaccination programs, to early screening programs 
for diseases, to ensuring that Americans have access to critical 
treatment programs.

Access to quality, affordable health care is critical to the well-
being of our country, today and in the future. With 46 million 
uninsured--9 million of whom are children--we need to focus on 
strengthening the Medicare system, providing increased access to 
quality health care programs and ensuring that our low-income children 
and families have health insurance.

During my tenure in the Virginia General Assembly, I introduced a 
number of bills that focused on child and maternal health, preventive 
screenings for hearing and immunizations for children against certain 
diseases. The need for these services was vital to the health of the 
citizens not only of the Commonwealth of Virginia, but also to our 
Nation as a whole and continues to help our most vulnerable today.

Madam Speaker, there continues to be an urgent need for expanded 
health care coverage and increased access to health care for children, 
seniors and low-income individuals. Because of this need, I introduced 
H.R. 1688, The All Healthy Children Act. The All Healthy Children Act, 
endorsed by the Children's Defense Fund, is a logical, smart and 
achievable incremental next step to close the child coverage gap and 
guarantees all children have access to the health coverage that they 
need to survive, thrive and learn. This proposal would ensure that all 
children are covered by expanding the coverage of both the Medicaid and 
SCHIP programs while eliminating procedural red tape that currently 
prevents many children from being covered under either program. This 
comprehensive program would include all basic health care and 
preventive testing as well as coverage for mental health and prenatal 
care.

The bills that we will vote on today will also help to provide our 
medical community the tools necessary to improve lives through 
prevention, research and treatment of disease. For example:

The Early Hearing Detection and Intervention program is a critical 
CDC program intended to identify and help infants with hearing loss. 
This bill reauthorizes funding and expands the program to provide 
screening and intervention services for young children. We know that 
the earlier hearing problems are identified, the more effective the 
medical services can be.

The Wakefield Act is designed to improve emergency medical services 
for children needing trauma or critical care.

The Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act educates parents and health 
care providers about newborn health screening, improves follow-up care 
for infants with an illness detected through newborn screening, and 
helps States expand and improve their newborn screening programs. Many 
diseases and conditions which can be cured when detected early can lead 
to permanent disabilities if not detected in time.

The Cytology Proficiency Improvement Act is designed to improve the 
analysis of tests for cervical cancer by ensuring that health care 
professionals who read tests for cervical cancer are skilled in today's 
medical technology. It modernizes the cervical cancer testing program 
by requiring continuing medical education for pathologists to assess 
their diagnostic skills and ensure they keep up with the latest 
practices.

The Keeping Seniors Safe from Falls Act launches a comprehensive 
preventative care program to reduce the number and severity of falls by 
the elderly. It directs HHS to implement directives to reduce falls, 
including improving the identification of seniors who have a high risk 
of falling; supporting education campaigns focused on reducing and 
preventing falls and on educating health professionals about fall risk, 
assessment and prevention; and conducting research to reduce falls.

The Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Management Act will help schools 
deal with food allergies among their student population by requiring 
the Department of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the 
Department of Education, to develop a policy for schools on appropriate 
management and emergency plans for children with food allergies and 
anaphylaxis. The policy would be provided to schools within 1 year 
after enactment, and schools could voluntarily implement the policy. 
The bill also authorizes HHS to award grants to local school districts 
to help them in implementing the policy.

The House amendment to the Traumatic Brain Injury Act authorizes the 
Centers for Disease Control, CDC, to provide State grants for patients 
with traumatic brain injury to enter treatment and rehabilitation 
programs. The thousands of brain injury survivors who are returning 
home from combat in Iraq and Afghanistan are joining the 5.3 million 
similarly afflicted Americans here at home. Indeed, TBI is the leading 
cause of death and disability among young Americans. The legislation 
would require the CDC to monitor brain injury incidents and create a 
reporting system to track the condition. It also directs CDC to study 
treatment techniques and NIH to conduct basic research to improve 
treatment.

Madam Speaker, action on these critical issues is imperative to meet 
the pressing health care concerns of our Nation. I urge my colleagues 
to support these bills.