# FAA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `db8f8b52a3df071e8e10353d8e3485ba`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, if you sat down this morning to design a 
system that would offer American workers the most secure retirement 
possible, where would you start? If you are starting from scratch, what 
principles would guide you?

Here are a few I think you might begin with. First, you want to 
encourage companies to offer secure retirement benefits. That is 
obvious. Second, you want to ensure that companies keep their promises 
to their employees and retirees. That ought to be at the top of the 
list. Third, don't create circumstances under which employers decide 
they can't afford to keep offering decent retirement benefits without 
becoming uncompetitive as a business or insolvent. That is pretty 
sensible. Fourth, treat all the companies in an industry equally so as 
not to pick the winners and losers. Don't tip the scales.

There are many other goals you might set out to achieve. Of course, 
we are not starting from scratch this morning, and this is not 
primarily a pensions bill, it is a reauthorization bill for the Federal 
Aviation Administration. But the substitute amendment we are now 
considering contains one pension provision that I think violates the 
principles I just laid out. That is why I am offering an amendment with 
Senator Hutchison of Texas, with a lengthy list of bipartisan 
cosponsors, to strike that provision of the bill.

The impact of our amendment will be to provide retirement security 
for over 180,000 American workers and at the same time maintain air 
service for all of our constituents in over 300 cities in our Nation 
and around the world.

Who supports this amendment dealing with the pensions of workers? The 
workers themselves. It is supported by the 135,000-strong Transport 
Workers Union of the AFL/CIO, and it is supported by a long list, a 
bipartisan list of cosponsors starting with Senator Hutchison, who will 
be speaking a little later on this amendment this morning, as well as 
Senator Brown of Ohio, Senator Inhofe of Oklahoma, Senator Lautenberg 
of New Jersey, Senator Voinovich of Ohio, Senator Bill Nelson of 
Florida, Senator John Cornyn of Texas, Senator Bob Menendez of New 
Jersey, and Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa. As you can tell from this list, 
this is a very diverse sponsorship--both sides of the aisle, all over 
the country. We have the support of the workers whose pensions are 
being affected, and we have the support of Senators from both sides of 
the aisle in a bipartisan fashion to strike this section of the bill.

It is a little complicated, but for the record we need to get into 
the background of why we are here today.

In 2006, we passed the Pension Protection Act, which established new 
rules for defining which companies were meeting their obligations to 
their employees and retirees and which companies were not. All the 
companies in America were, in effect, given 7 years to catch up on any 
underfunded pension plan, and rules were established regarding how the 
underfunding was to be estimated. That is only right and sensible 
because if we are going to offer a pension to an employee and the 
employee can count on that pension, they have to make sure the pension 
plan is adequately funded so when they call on that plan at the time of 
retirement, the benefits will be there, the benefits that have been 
promised over the lifetime of a worker.

It affected all the companies in America except for airlines. We 
recognized at the time that the airlines were facing unique 
circumstances. They owed huge amounts of money to hundreds of thousands 
of workers and retirees, and yet they were facing a very


difficult struggle to profitability after 9/11. We all recall what 
happened. Airlines were shut down completely across the United States 
and then air travel was at least compromised if not inhibited for 
months and years afterward.

We understood the airline industry needed special consideration, so 
we gave the airlines a special arrangement when it came to funding 
their pension plans. We said airlines had 10 years to make their 
pensions whole instead of 7 years, which gave them a little longer 
period of time. We allowed the airlines to assume a rate of return on 
their investments of 6 percent instead of assuming a lower rate based 
on the formula that other companies were forced to use--all airlines, 
that is, except for two, Delta and Northwest. These airlines had frozen 
their defined benefit retirement plans.

What does that mean to freeze the benefit plan? It meant no new 
workers at those airlines could participate. It meant the workers then 
working were covered by their defined benefit pension plans; those new 
workers coming onboard at these airlines did not get that benefit; and 
no new benefits could be provided to existing workers and retirees. The 
current pension benefits were frozen, excluded new employees from 
coverage.

So, in a way, Delta and Northwest were given special treatment. They 
were allowed to deal with their retirees in a different fashion than 
any company in America, than any airline in America. These airlines 
were told they could take 17 years to catch up on the payments instead 
of 10 years, and they could assume a rate of return of not 6 percent 
but 8.85 percent. It was a very generous deal.

Let me restate that another way. Some airlines, but not all of them, 
could assume a far higher rate of return and spread their payments over 
a much longer period of time. What difference does it make? It meant 
those airlines, Delta and Northwest, had to set aside far less cash 
toward their pension plans each year than the other airlines with which 
they were competing.

In a very competitive industry such as air travel in this country, 
this created a huge advantage for these two airlines, Delta and 
Northwest. To make matters worse, we rewarded the airlines that froze 
their pensions. Let's compare that result then to the principles I laid 
out at the beginning of the statement.

Did we encourage, with this decision, companies to offer secure 
retirement benefits? No. It seems to me instead we encouraged companies 
to freeze their benefit plans.

Second, did we ensure that companies keep their promises to their 
employees and retirees? I do not know about that. Does allowing 
companies to take 17 years to adequately fund their obligations ensure 
that they keep their promise? It is a fair question.

Third, did we avoid creating circumstances under which employers 
might decide they could not afford to keep offering decent retirement 
benefits without becoming uncompetitive or even insolvent? I think 
trying to avoid this scenario was part of the rationale for giving 
airlines a bit more of a cushion. So perhaps we did.

Did we treat all companies in an industry equally, so as not to pick 
winners and losers and create a competitive advantage for some airlines 
over others? We most certainly did not.

Now, fast-forward to last year. On the first day of the new Congress, 
Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas introduced legislation to bring 
more balance to pension rules for the airline industry. We passed this 
legislation as part of the Iraq supplemental last spring, and I 
supported Senator Hutchison.

What did the language do? It gave the airlines that have not frozen 
their pension plans--and let me be specific which airlines: American 
Airlines, Continental, Hawaiian, Alaskan, and US Airways--the 
opportunity to assume a better rate of return on their investments. 
They now can assume a rate of return of 8.25 percent.

Remember, Delta and Northwest, under the law that we passed, can 
assume a rate of return of 8.85 percent, whether that, in fact, takes 
place. So even under the existing law before the bill that we have 
before us, those two airlines are going to benefit. They get a better 
break, better treatment, Delta and Northwest, than all the other 
airlines, and they can smooth out these payments over 17 years, not 10 
years.

So did the change in the law on pensions benefit those two airlines 
initially? Yes. Is their benefit compromised by what we are doing with 
this amendment today? No. But does it bring the other airlines in the 
country closer to the same treatment? Yes, it does. So we still have 
not provided all of the industry players with parity. Delta and 
Northwest still do much better. The airlines that are still trying to 
provide their workers secure retirements through defined benefit plans 
that are not frozen are still getting a much worse deal than the 
airlines that froze their plans, but it is a bit fairer.

So what was done years ago rewarded those airlines--struggling, I 
will concede--with better treatment in terms of funding their pension 
plans from a corporate point of view than other airlines. What we are 
doing today is lessening that advantage slightly but not at the expense 
of Delta and Northwest. In fact, what we are doing is maintaining what 
has been the law since last year. That brings us today to this 
substitute amendment which we are considering.

Section 808 of the substitute amendment would place new 
responsibilities on only those airlines that we tried to help last 
year. This section would once again widen the disparity between the 
rules that apply to some airlines versus the rules that apply to 
others. That does not make any sense. This section would require only 
the five airlines that I mentioned to fully fund all new pension 
obligations this year and every year going forward, only those five 
airlines.

Now, you might say, in a vacuum that seems reasonable, fully funding 
a pension. We want companies to pay their pension plans, right? Well, 
it is up to a reasonable point. There are three fundamental problems 
that I think are very important for my colleagues to understand. First, 
the provision in the bill which Senator Hutchison and I would strike 
penalizes the airlines that have worked the hardest to fully fund their 
pensions already. Don't we want companies to work hard to fully fund 
their pensions? If we do, why would we want this section of the bill 
which penalizes them for their effort to protect their workers and be 
fair in their pension plans?

Take American Airlines, for example. According to the rules, American 
Airlines' pensions are 116 percent funded. To put it another way, the 
management has put more money into their pension plans than they 
actually need to put in to make sure they make all of the payments 
promised, 16 percent more. It is not as if American is 
underfunding their pensions; they are overfunding their requirements. 
The assets on hand, after assuming the investment rate of return over 
time, are worth more than what American Airlines has promised its 
workers and retirees. How can we ask for anything more than that?


So why should American Airlines have to then fully fund all of its 
new obligations each year so it continually maintains 116 percent 
funding? Is not 100 percent enough?

Second, this provision unnecessarily pushes these five airlines 
closer to bankruptcy. Is it really in our Nation's best interest that 
these five airlines pay an additional $2 billion into their pension 
funds over the next 5 years when they simply do not have cash laying 
around?

As a national policy, is it better for us to have more airlines or 
fewer? Do we want more competition or less? Do we want fewer 
bankruptcies or more? And if we really care about the retirements of 
these hundreds of thousands of workers who are employed at these five 
major airlines, why would we push their companies closer to bankruptcy?

Do you know what happens when a company goes into bankruptcy? Ask the 
employees of United Airlines what happened? The first casualty is their 
pension plan. I have been there. They are based in Illinois; they are 
based in Chicago. It was painful. And if you push more airlines into 
bankruptcy, you are not helping their workers and their retirement, you 
are jeopardizing it.

If that sounds dramatic, I would like to show this chart to my 
colleagues who are following this debate. These are the bankrupt 
airlines, recent bankrupt airlines: Frontier Airlines filed for


bankruptcy, 6,000 employees were affected by that decision; ATA filed 
for bankruptcy, 2,230 employees affected; Skybus, 450 employees 
terminated; Aloha, 1,900 employees; EOS airlines, 450 employees.

This is the reality of the airline industry today. By my count, over 
11,000 employees were affected by these bankruptcies. So why in the 
world would we put a provision in this bill which would require our 
airlines, these five airlines, to put dramatically more cash into these 
pensions, beyond what is required of other airlines, beyond what is 
required for 100 percent funding, and jeopardize them and endanger them 
so that they face bankruptcy?

Let's look at the losses recently reported for the first quarter by 
some of the largest domestic carriers, just in case those who are 
critical of this amendment believe these airlines are flush with cash. 
Look at what happened in the first quarter of this year: Delta 
Airlines' first quarter losses, $274 million; American Airlines, $328 
million; and United, $537 million.

If there is someone who believes--and I do not know who it might be--
that the airline industry is so flush with cash, that they are so 
strong they can handle this new pension requirement that is put in this 
bill, and it will not have a negative impact, they have not noticed the 
reports on the first quarter. In virtually every instance every airline 
in America has struggled and fallen behind because of jet fuel costs.

Now comes this bill, not providing these airlines a helping hand 
through one of their most difficult periods in history where 
bankruptcies are rampant and losses are at record levels. This bill 
imposes new regulations on airlines struggling to survive.

At a time where crude oil is threatening to reach $120 a barrel--it 
did last week--and jet fuel is pushing $160 a barrel, I do not think 
the airlines are in a position to add another $2 billion to their 
pensions which are already well funded.

Remember, Delta and Northwest were given a privileged position when 
it came to the treatment of their pension plans under the law. They did 
not have to put as much money into their pension plans. They were given 
a longer period of time to pay out or to fund them, 17 years, and the 
rest of the airlines were given circumstances which were more demanding 
of them. They had to put in more money.

What Senator Hutchison and I are trying to do is protect a difference 
but one that we think is reasonable. What the bill does is to push 
these airlines at exactly the wrong moment in America's business 
history into a position where they are going to have to surrender cash 
reserves and risk bankruptcy.

Now, is that in the best interests of the workers and the pilots of 
those airlines? Eleven thousand workers at airlines are already 
bankrupt or out of work. There are over 180,000 workers in America who 
stand to lose nearly everything if we push these airlines into 
bankruptcy, and the over 300 cities that could lose air service and 
face higher fares? Why? Why do we want this?

Third, and finally, this provision creates an even larger disparity 
between the way some airlines are treated and the way other airlines 
are treated. In this most competitive industry, why in the world are we 
trying to tip the scales to the advantage of some airlines and push 
others near bankruptcy? It does not sound right.

Why are we demanding these five airlines to follow rules that no 
other company in America must follow? Why are we demanding these five 
airlines follow rules that two of their competitors do not have to 
follow?

The amendment I have with Senator Hutchison and others would strike 
this provision from the bill and leave current law unchanged. I think 
this is important to all Senators. It is not just an issue for those of 
us whose home States entertain these airlines and have them as 
carriers. I urge every Member who is interested in providing equitable 
treatment under the law to all companies in a given industry to support 
our amendment.

Do this for 180,000 workers who have weighed in, whose pensions are 
at stake and strike section 808. It is a bad idea. And let me also say 
this on behalf of the largest carrier affected, American Airlines. This 
legacy carrier is the only one left--of the larger carriers, I should 
say--that has not gone through bankruptcy. They have made sacrifices. 
They have cut back. They have tried to protect their workers and 
provide quality service. It has not been easy.

Now they are facing recordbreaking jet fuel costs. That is a reality. 
They have tried to keep their word to their unionized workforce to keep 
them on the job, to pay them as promised, to give them the pension they 
promised. Why do we want to punish good conduct? Why do we want to 
punish an airline that has tried its level best to keep its word to its 
employees and retirees? That is a question not only asked by the 
management of American Airlines, it is being asked by the workers of 
American Airlines.

They oppose section 808. They think it could be the end of their 
airline. What a legacy we would leave at the end of the day if we pass 
a bill that is supposed to pass to make air travel safer and jeopardize 
the existence of five major airlines in the process. That is exactly 
what section 808 would do.


I urge every Member who is interested in giving their constituents as 
many options for flight travel as possible by keeping afloat as many 
airlines as we can to support our amendment. I thank the 135,000 
members of the transport workers unions whose pensions are at issue 
with this amendment. They have stood up in what I think is the best 
interest not only of transportation workers today but those retirees. I 
thank Senators Hutchison, Brown, Inhofe, Lautenberg, Voinovich, Nelson, 
Cornyn, Menendez, and Harkin for cosponsoring the amendment. I urge my 
colleagues to join us. Let's strip this section from the bill and then 
move forward to do what we need to do to make American air travel safe 
and to respect the companies and workers we count on every day.

I yield the floor.