# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `dc0a780b3bad0a53d3d0e46e25abf24f`
`Mrs. BIGGERT â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mrs. BIGGERT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me the 
time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this nonbinding 
resolution. I


cannot support it for it neither supports our troops nor offers an 
alternative plan. It is symbolic, it is partisan, it is cynical, and it 
is meaningless.

The leadership of this body is taking the easy route: criticize the 
other guy's plan but don't offer your own. Call up your own nonbinding 
resolution, but don't allow votes on resolutions that actually have 
substance. Position yourselves for the next elections but not for the 
next wave of terrorism attacks. Win the White House, but lose the war 
on terror.

There is no doubt that the voters spoke in the last election. They 
are not happy with the war. Few, if any of us, are satisfied with the 
progress made in Iraq. I know I am not. Neither are my constituents. 
Their patience and that of all Americans has run thin.

For too long we pursued an open-ended commitment without well-defined 
goals and clear benchmarks for success. We also pursued a strategy that 
placed too heavy a burden on our troops and too light an expectation of 
the Iraqi Government. But I want to remind my colleagues that the 
voters will speak again if we don't get this right. And I say ''we'' 
because it is all of us. If we don't put aside the partisan positioning 
and work together for the good of this country, we all will lose more 
than just our seats in this body.

It is not enough to point the finger and say that the President is 
wrong, and wait for the returns to come in. It is not enough to 
disapprove and criticize and say It is not my job. He is the Commander 
in Chief. And it is not enough to turn around and through this 
resolution say you support troops that have been or are serving in 
Iraq, but not those who may go in as replacements, rotations, or as 
part of the new temporary deployment. This is why we should be using 
this opportunity, not to take a symbolic vote of no confidence in our 
Commander in Chief, but to discuss real options for the way forward in 
Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I have been there several times. I have been to the red 
zone, visited the convention center where the Iraqi Parliament meets, 
and was there as Prime Minister Maliki presented his reconciliation 
plan. I met with our military commanders. I have listened to our 
soldiers who patrol the streets in Baghdad, and I have talked with 
democratically elected Iraqi leaders about their hopes for the future. 
The one thing that was very clear to me is that only the Iraqi 
Government can take the tough steps that will achieve reconciliation 
and an end to sectarian violence.

So now Prime Minister Maliki has stepped forward and asked our 
President for specific assistance in securing Baghdad. In response, 
President Bush's commanders have drawn up a plan. The President 
proposed a new commander on the ground, General Petraeus, who was 
confirmed by the other body in a bipartisan, unanimous vote of 81-0.

We urged the creation of a bipartisan Iraqi Study Group comprised of 
our country's most distinguished and seasoned experts and asked their 
advice. Among the key items they supported was a temporary surge in 
troop strength if called for by the commanders on the ground. ''As 
Baghdad goes, so goes Iraq,'' they pointed out.

These are all steps in the right direction. But what would approving 
this resolution signal to the world? That we tell the Iraqi people to 
take the tough steps, but then we deny them the support they need to do 
so? That we urge the creation of a bipartisan commission to give us 
guidance and then reject its advice? That we unanimously confirm a new 
general on the ground and then we deny him his plan? That we support 
our troops, but not their replacements?

These are not the messages that I want to send. We owe it to our 
troops and to those who have given their lives to give the Iraqis one 
last chance to show that they are willing to fight for and take 
responsibility for the future of their own country. But we have to 
exercise our constitutional powers and hold them to it, and we have to 
stop signaling that the best Congress can offer is a big, nonbinding 
''no'' to someone else's plan.

So today I am cosponsoring legislation, H.R. 1062, that will do just 
that: hold the administration, and the Iraqi Government, accountable in 
achieving clear benchmarks. It requires the President to report to 
Congress every 30 days on the extent to which the government of Iraq is 
moving forward on more than a dozen fronts, from troop training and 
security to rebuilding, reconciliation, international cooperation, and 
enforcing the rule of law. It also requires progress reports on the 
implementation of strategies that will prevent Iraqi territory from 
becoming a safe haven for terrorist activities.

Most significantly, H.R. 1062 exercises the full constitutional 
powers of this body, not through a symbolic expression of discontent, 
but through vigorous oversight and true accountability.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1062 and reject the resolution 
before us.