# None
## `dcb29d76145e2471fbf9f80f394fd213`
`Mr. McKEON â€” 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time.

I have another letter to read, and I'd like to insert it into the 
Record.

This is from General Carl E. Mundy, Jr., United States Marine Corps, 
Retired. He sent an identical letter, I believe, to the chairman.

He says: ''I write to convey my appreciation for your strong stance 
relative to efforts to repeal the current law which exclude homosexuals 
from serving openly in the armed services. You and I both know that 
such action is not in the best interest of our Nation or its Armed 
Forces. While each member of the HASC has many constituencies to serve, 
some very vocal, it may be that your largest is the 2.8 million men and 
women in uniform, together with the family members who support them and 
who number at least that many. In sharp contrast to homosexual 
activists, these volunteers in uniform serve silently and obediently 
and rely on the reasoned judgment of their leaders and even more so, 
perhaps, of those empowered to 'raise armies, provide and maintain a 
navy, and to make the rules for the governance thereof' to speak and to 
represent them.

''Secretary Gates has put into motion an effort to at least give this 
element of your constituents an opportunity to be heard relative to 
their concerns about implementation. The


very large majority of servicemembers who are not homosexual, at least 
97 percent or more, deserve to be heard before any peremptory, 
uninformed action is taken to impose the sexuality of a minority on 
them. I believe strongly that a moratorium on discharges being 
advocated by some in the Senate and on your committee as well could be 
tantamount to muzzling those most affected by such peremptory action. I 
appreciate the stand you have taken to prevent this.''

I would like to enter General Mundy's letter into the Record.

Mr. Chairman, there have been comments made that perhaps the Chiefs 
support this action that will be taking place tonight on this vote, 
tonight or tomorrow, whenever we get to that amendment. But I must 
reiterate, I spoke to them on the phone and they followed up with a 
letter and, to a person, they all oppose us taking action before the 
recommended procedure that the Secretary has set in place.




















 General Carl E. Mundy, Jr.,
















 United States Marine Corp (Ret.),



























 May 19, 2010.


 Hon. ''Buck'' McKeon,


 Ranking Member, House Armed Services Committee, Rayburn House 




 Office Building, Washington, DC.



 Dear Congressman McKeon: I write to convey my appreciation 


 for your strong stance relative to efforts to repeal the 


 current law which excludes homosexuals from serving openly in 


 the Armed Services. You and I both know that such action is 


 not in the best interests of our nation or its Armed Forces. 


 While each member of the HASC has many constituencies to 


 serve--some very vocal--it may be that your largest is the 


 2.8 million men and women in uniform together with the family 


 members who support them and who number at least that many. 


 In sharp contrast to homosexual activists, these volunteers 


 in uniform serve silently and obediently and rely on the 


 reasoned judgment of their leaders and even more so, perhaps, 


 of those empowered to ''. . . raise armies, provide and 


 maintain a navy, and to make the rules for the governance 


 thereof' to speak for and to represent them.



 Secretary Gates has put into motion an effort to at least 


 give this element of your constituents an opportunity to be 


 heard relative to their concerns about implementation. The 


 very large majority of servicemembers who are not 


 homosexual--at least 97% or more--deserve to be heard before 


 any peremptory, uninformed action is taken to impose the 


 sexuality of a minority on them. I believe strongly that a 


 moratorium on discharges being advocated by some in the 


 Senate and on your Committee as well would be tantamount to 


 muzzling those most affected by such peremptory action. I 


 appreciate the stand you have taken to prevent this.



 Last year, my Service, the Marine Corps, discharged 


 something over 32,400 men and women from active service. 


 Seventy-eight of those were discharged for matters related to 


 homosexuality--less than one-quarter of one percent. Within 


 that small number, more than half were still in Entry Level 


 Training with less than a year in service--young trainees 


 still in the reality-shock of Boot Camp or the immediate 


 months following--who can barely be considered qualified, 


 much less skilled or even of a maturity old enough to drink 


 alcohol. And within that small number, three were discharged 


 without any active service at all while still in the Delayed 


 Entry Program awaiting assignment to active duty. Claims of a 


 hemorrhage of skills due to the injustice of the law are 


 simply not supported by cases like these. And in my 


 experience, if not by admission of homosexuality--factual, or 


 not at their still emerging state of maturity--most of these 


 young people--homesick, disillusioned, or stunned by the 


 shock of Recruit Training--would seek another means of 


 gaining discharge.



 As a final note, let me convey my concern that in counter-


 balance to whatever number of homosexual advocate voices you 


 hear, the voices of the thousand retired military officers 


 who gave their advice professionally and with dignity and 


 respect to the President and members of Congress on this 


 subject last year--together with the 160 more who have lent 


 their names since--should not be ignored. This is the largest 


 number of officers to have collectively conveyed their views 


 and recommendations in the history of our nation. And in 


 spite of the efforts of activists to impugn the character and 


 legitimacy of these officers as out of touch, a number of 


 those offering their advice commanded Divisions in combat or 


 held other significant command or staff positions as recently 


 as the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. This body of 


 professional advice matters, since the signers base our 


 judgments on experience, and have no special interest agenda 


 other than the effectiveness of our Armed Forces.



 I want to again offer my admiration for your courageous and 


 principled stand on behalf of the men and women of our armed 


 services on this issue. I hold the strongest hope that you 


 will continue to allow the voices of those in uniform to be 


 heard on this important subject, and will continue to oppose 


 efforts to impose a moratorium on discharges, which is 


 tantamount to de-facto repeal of a law that has, and does 


 serve the armed forces well.





 Sincerely,
























Carl E. Mundy, Jr.
