# MARINE CORPS CORPORAL STEVEN P. GILL POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `decb9ce7800b26805d71f7c53d7d2e08`
`Mr. CARTER â€” 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I thank the 
committee for all they have done on this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution honoring the 
memory of United States Marine Corps Corporal Steven Patrick Gill of 
Round Rock, Texas.

In January of 2002, Steven Gill placed his college education on hold 
to enlist in the United States Marine Corps. The events of September 11 
moved Steven to take up arms to defend his country. On July 21, 2005, 
he paid the ultimate sacrifice while deployed in Iraq doing that duty 
of defending his country.

Steven Gill was born on November 3, 1980, to Bill and Rose Gill of 
Houston, Texas. After moving to Round Rock, my hometown, in 1993, 
Steven attended Westwood High School. He was an active member of King 
of Kings Lutheran Church, and took part in numerous mission trips to 
help those in need.

After high school, Steven enrolled at Concordia Lutheran College in 
Austin, Texas, where he studied towards his goal of becoming a youth 
minister in the Lutheran Church. As it did for so many Americans, the 
tragic events of September 11 changed the course of Steven's life.

Upon completion of basic training, Steven received follow-up training 
to become an infantry marine rifleman at the School of Infantry, Camp 
Pendleton, California. He also attended Amphibious Reconnaissance 
School at Naval Amphibious Base, Norfolk, Virginia. On July 21, 2005, 
Steven was serving as a reconnaissance man with Echo Company, Third 
Reconnaissance Battalion, Regimental Combat Team 8, Second Marine 
Division in Zaidon, Iraq, when he was killed in action.

Steven served one tour in Iraq and was awarded a Purple Heart, Combat 
Action Ribbon, Selected Marine Corps Reserve, National Defense Service 
Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, two GWOT Service Medals, and an Armed 
Forces Reserve Medal.

Steven Gill gave his life so we can enjoy the freedoms that we have 
today in this great Nation. It is my honor as his Congressman and a 
resident of Round Rock, Texas, to honor the sacrifice of Steven Gill 
for his country here today and to honor his family who gave us their 
son. As Congress returns to work after honoring our Nation's war 
heroes, I am proud to offer this small tribute to one of those heroes 
from Texas.