# None
## `df71f224e9cb405bf12c0d4cbd9f41f0`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA â€” 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Reclaiming my time for just a minute. When we take a 
look at the threat that we face today, it is a fight against radical 
jihadists. As my colleague pointed out, this is a fight that is very 
different than what we fought in the cold war. But even in the cold war 
we had a very specific strategy laid out and a very specific objective. 
Now, we need to transform our intelligence community to make sure that 
it is as good and as quick. Actually, it has to be better and it has to 
be quicker, than radical jihadists. These people who have perverted 
their Islamic faith to achieve what they hope will be ultimately a 
world in which their view of Islam dominates everyone, and you either 
bend to their will or you are killed. Remember, their objectives are 
very simple: They want to take down the government in Iraq; they then 
want to destabilize the region; eliminate the State of Israel; 
establish their caliphate, Northern Africa, Southern Europe, the Middle 
East, reaching down into Asia, and they want to put it under sharia 
law; and, at the same time, they want to continue on in the West.

Remember, that for radical jihadists, as they look at the rest of the 
world they say, you have three options: you have the option to convert 
to Islam; you have the option to pay the tax, the hadid, or you will be 
attacked and you will be killed. And that is how they view the rest of 
the world. And that is why, when you take a look at the statements of 
bin Laden, al Qaeda, and other radical jihadist groups, it is why they 
are so focused and why bin Laden, in one of his latest messages, said 
that they need to escalate their efforts against the West. They need to 
escalate the killing. And why, if by the grace of God he is given a 
nuclear weapon, he will decide whether they


will use it or how they will use it. It is why we need to use every 
tool at our disposal, tools that we refined and that we learned how to 
use during the cold war.

We developed a great capability against the former Soviet Union, 
against other enemies during the cold war, and we ought to now take our 
knowledge of how these tools worked, how we put them in practice, to 
make sure that we got the information that kept us safe, that prevented 
the Soviet Union from ever being able to attack us and attack us 
successfully. How did we develop those tools to make sure that we got 
the information that we needed at the same time that we protected 
American civil liberties, privacy and American rights and the American 
way of life?

We had a good balance. We got the intelligence that we needed. We 
kept America safe. We had a period of 50 years where we developed these 
tools. We developed them at their various intelligence organizations 
where we refined the practices in such a way that they are now 
positioned as we target them at different threats, and perhaps a more 
serious threat than what we have ever seen before, radical jihadists. 
These are the tools that will enable us to meet our commitment of 
saying we will do everything we can to prevent a successful attack 
against the homeland.

I will yield to my colleague.