# IRAQ FUNDING
## `df912b4319256c307bc1aee73fe7dcaf`
`Mr. THOMAS â€” 23 April 2007`

---


Mr. THOMAS. Mr. President, I come to the floor to talk about an issue 
that seems to be the most pressing of any we have before us; that is, 
to fund our troops in Iraq.

I came to the floor on the 64th day following the President's 
submission to the Congress of legislation for funding our troops in the 
field. I believed it was important that we urge Congress to complete 
its work on this legislation immediately. How could there be anything 
more pressing than making funding available for our troops? Certainly, 
the time is now.

It is now day 77, and we still don't have a bill to send to the 
President. It is time we do so. In fact, the conference committee has 
not even met. Even though both houses of Congress have passed the 
measure, they have yet to come together between the Houses in order to 
do something. Our military leaders are people in the best position


to prioritize the needs of our troops. They are the ones who know what 
needs to be done and what the timing is. They have left no doubt that 
this funding is urgently needed, without arbitrary deadlines or 
unrelated pork, both of which are in the bill.

Unfortunately, there are a number of Members who want to call the 
shots and micromanage the execution of the war. I understand there are 
different views about the war. There are different views about what our 
role should be. But the fact is, we are there now. We have had a change 
in direction. We have some new ideas, new leadership. But we have the 
troops there. They need to be supported financially so they cannot only 
do their job, certainly, but protect themselves. If we don't get this 
funding to the troops, the first thing to be cut without this 
supplemental will be facilities maintenance throughout the services, 
particularly the Army.

In addition, counseling programs for both troops and their families 
will have to be cut back. As to this idea that there is no hurry, that 
we can find the money somewhere else, Members need to be sure they 
understand that finding it somewhere else takes it away from someone 
else who has earned it, either through service or families of service 
people. More and more troops and their families are seeking counseling, 
and reducing funding at this critical time certainly needs to be 
avoided.

Failing to act immediately will have real-life impacts on military 
personnel. I should think we could come to that understanding. I don't 
know quite what the timing is seeking to do--apparently, impress on the 
President the points of view being made on the other side of the aisle 
or whatever. But he has made it clear what he is going to do. We know 
that. We know we have to go there and get it vetoed, come back and find 
something that is acceptable. All that takes time. All the time we 
spend puts more risk on the military and their families.

I believe failing to enact this legislation very soon will have real-
life impacts on our military personnel. I can't find much reason for 
that. If we can't take care of our troops' mental health and see that 
they aren't living in dilapidated barracks, we will have a hard time 
ensuring they are able to fight when the Nation calls. I hope we can 
continue to remember what giving these people are doing, what they are 
sacrificing. We need, of course, to support them.

It is very simple. If our troops don't have the training to deploy, 
then our soldiers and sailors overseas cannot come home, and that is 
kind of the situation we are increasingly in now. At this point the 
only priority should be funding our troops in the field. Even though we 
have other work to do, certainly if we look at priorities, what could 
be more important than dealing with the needs of our troops overseas.

I don't know if James Baker would have been any clearer when we 
reiterated that the Iraq Study Group report does not set timetables or 
deadlines for the troop withdrawal.

James Baker said:




 The [Iraq Study Group] report does not set timetables or 


 deadlines for the removal of troops, as contemplated by the 


 supplemental spending bill the House and the Senate passed. 


 In fact, the report specifically opposes that approach. As 


 many military and political leaders told us, an arbitrary 


 deadline would allow the enemy to wait us out and strengthen 


 the positions of extremists over moderates.


Several months ago the President indicated he would establish a new 
direction in Iraq. General Petraeus is back in Washington today to 
report on the counterinsurgency plan. Certainly, it isn't doing 
everything we want it to yet. It hasn't achieved success yet. But it is 
moving in the right direction. We have a change in people. We have a 
change in leadership. We have a change in the plan. It has only been 3 
months since we installed the general and only 60 percent of the troops 
are in place he had wanted and suggested were necessary. Despite these 
modest improvements, the other side wants to pack up and admit defeat. 
They are also claiming the war is lost, and that is unfortunate, 
especially when our troops hear those comments. In any event, I hope 
this Congress does what is responsible and sends the President a bill. 
Our troops deserve to know Congress will provide them with the funding 
they need to succeed.

I wanted to talk on that issue. It is one of the most important we 
have. I look forward to proceeding with what will be before us on the 
floor now, education. Sharpening up our competitiveness is very 
important. I am hopeful we can assure Members that this program with 
this money and additional spending will have some impact. As we look at 
it, we have lots of programs that are designed to strengthen education, 
yet we don't have a very good measurement of whether those dollars are 
causing things to happen that we hoped they would.

I look forward to that.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.