# NEW START TREATY
## `e028d918e15e618c04e6a9e537f3b676`
`Mr. KERRY â€” 29 November 2010`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, we are in what we all understand are very 
difficult times--challenging in every respect and certainly with 
respect to the national security concerns of the country. As we speak, 
American soldiers are fighting a war in Afghanistan, winding down a war 
in Iraq, and our Nation has young men and women in harm's way in many 
parts of the world, engaged in a persistent challenge against global 
terrorism. Iran's nuclear program continues to advance, and North Korea 
is building a uranium enrichment facility and provoking the south on a 
regular basis with its military aggression.

Every single one of these is a complex challenge without any easy 
solution. But in the middle of all these challenges, the Senate has 
been given an opportunity to actually reduce the dangers our country 
faces. We have been given an opportunity set an example for the world. 
We have been given an opportunity to make the decision that would help 
to put greater pressure on Iran, on North Korea or on any other country 
that might be contemplating the notion of moving toward nuclear 
weapons. The Senate has been given the opportunity in the next days to 
express the leadership of our country with respect to moving in the 
opposite direction--away from nuclear weapons to greater controls, 
greater accountability, greater security and safety for our people.

With one simple vote before we leave here in the next days, we could 
approve the New START treaty and make America and the world more secure 
and take an important step forward in leadership as we express to the 
world our sense of responsibility with respect to the challenge of 
nuclear weapons. That is the opportunity we have. The question before 
every Senator is going to be whether we come here in these next days to 
do the business of the American people, to do our constitutional 
responsibility to advise and consent to a treaty negotiated by the 
executive department of the country.

New START is, quite simply, a commonsense agreement to control the 
world's most dangerous weapons and enhance stability between the two 
countries that possess over 90 percent of them. Just think of the 
statement it makes to those countries contemplating where Iran may be 
going when the countries that possess 90 percent of these weapons begin 
to dismantle these weapons and provide intrusive verification steps 
between us for how we will both behave. What an important statement at 
this moment in time with respect to Iranian behavior, with respect to 
North Korean behavior, and what a completely opposite, irresponsible 
decision it would be if the Senate just got bogged down in politics and 
walked


away from this moment, unwilling to make that kind of decision that 
offers the leadership that I think the world and certainly the American 
people expect us to make.

This treaty will limit the number of nuclear weapons Russia can 
deploy to 1,550 warheads. What American who contemplates the nature of 
nuclear war and conflict and the potential damage of 1 weapon, 10 
weapons, 20 weapons--what American does not understand the common sense 
of limiting Russia to 1,550 weapons pointing at the United States of 
America, some of them directly pointing at us even as I stand here and 
speak today?

This treaty will give us flexibility in deploying our own arsenal so 
we do not have to live by a strict restraint with respect to land or 
sea or air. We have flexibility in which weapons we want to put into 
which modality, and the verification provisions will significantly 
deepen our understanding of Russian forces. It has been almost a full 
year now since the original START treaty and its verification 
procedures expired. Every day since then, insight that treaty provided 
has been degrading.

New START does more than just restrain the weapons. It does more than 
just provide verification. It actually strengthens the relationship 
between the United States and Russia, and it enhances the global 
nonproliferation regime we signed up to years and years ago during the 
Cold War. It will improve our efforts to constrain Iran and, most 
important, to contain the loose nuclear materials we all fear could one 
day fall into the hands of terrorists and, if not result in a nuclear 
explosion, result in what we call a dirty bomb explosion where nuclear 
material is, in fact, scattered for want of the ability to create a 
nuclear weapon itself but with grave consequences of radioactive 
material doing enormous injury to large populations as a result. 
Already in the 7 months since we signed the New START, Russia has shown 
greater dedication to this renewed relationship. They have supported 
harsher sanctions against Iran. They have suspended the sale of the S-
300 air defense system to Tehran.

The original START agreement which was the bedrock of the Nunn-Lugar 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, a program whereby we are 
currently reducing nuclear warheads with Russia and containing the 
nuclear material--one of the great contributions to nonproliferation of 
modern times--that is the most successful nonproliferation effort to 
date in which any country has engaged. That would be threatened if this 
START agreement does not pass. It is strengthened if the START 
agreement does pass.

Without the START treaty, the New START treaty--I think nobody 
expresses concern greater than Senator Lugar. Senator Lugar, a 
Republican Senator, has shown enormous leadership on this issue for 
years and years now. He is respected all across the globe by those 
people who follow these issues. He has expressed the urgency of passing 
this treaty now, in this Senate, in this Congress, in this session.

In summary, the New START helps the United States to lead other 
countries so we help each other to address the lingering dangers of the 
old nuclear age, and it gives us a very important set of tools in order 
to combat the threats of the new nuclear age. Indeed, the single most 
significant question being raised at this point in time is not about 
the substance of the treaty within the four corners of the treaty; it 
is about language external to the treaty with respect to whether it 
somehow might limit our missile defenses. All of us acknowledge that 
those missile defense investments we have made to date will go a long 
way toward helping us to be able to address the threat of rogue states.

Let me just say as unequivocally as I know how that there is nothing 
in this treaty--there is no way this treaty--there is no way the 
policies of this administration--there is no way any language that is 
formal or binding between our nations or any other language, in fact, 
binds the United States or restrains us from pursuing missile defense. 
The answer with respect to any question on missile defense in this 
treaty is, no, it unequivocally does not restrain America's ability to 
develop and deploy missile defense. What is more, the evidence of that 
was very clear in Lisbon just the other day where the President of the 
United States, together with European countries, publicly announced the 
procedure by which we are going forward to deploy a missile defense in 
Europe in order to deal with the rogue threat problem.

Let me be even more clear. With respect to the question of any 
limitation of missile defense, the Secretary of Defense, appointed by 
President George W. Bush, says no, there is no limitation on missile 
defense; the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff says no, there is no 
limitation on missile defense; the commander of our nuclear forces says 
no, no limitation on missile defense; the Director of the Missile 
Defense Agency says no, there is no limitation on missile defense. 
Again and again, senior military leaders have said unambiguously that 
this treaty does not limit our missile defense plans. So, in my 
judgment and the judgment of most people I know who reasonably approach 
this treaty, there is no issue of missile defense with respect to this 
treaty.

Now we are beginning to hear people say that maybe we do not have 
time, in the context of the lameduck session, to deal with this 
question of American leadership, this constitutional responsibility 
that ought properly to be executed by the Senate that has done all of 
the work on this treaty. There is in that statement about lack of time, 
to some degree, a sort of question: Maybe there are a whole bunch of 
issues out there that just have not been resolved. Let me try to deal 
with that for a moment because I wish to make it very clear that the 
New START treaty's inspection and evaluation and analysis process by 
the Senate and appropriate committees has been extensive and 
exhaustive.

I wish to make clear what the record says about the time we have to 
consider this treaty. The Senate has been working on this treaty for 
the past year and a half, ever since the negotiations first began.

Starting in June of 2009, the Foreign Relations Committee was briefed 
at least five times during the talks with the Russians. Senators from 
the Armed Services Committee, the Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
Senate's National Security Working Group--all of them took part in 
those briefings. That was an obligation of this Congress. This Congress 
was present during the briefings with the negotiators, this Congress 
was privy to those negotiations as they went along--something a future 
Congress could not be because the negotiations are over. That 
underscores even more why this is the Congress that is the appropriate 
Congress to deal with this treaty. Roughly 60 U.S. Senators, through 
those committees I named, were able to follow the negotiations in 
detail, and individual Senators had additional opportunities to meet 
with our negotiating team, and a delegation of Senators even traveled 
to Geneva in the fall of 2009 to meet with the negotiators. I might add 
that included Senator Kyl, who has been one of the leading Senators on 
the other side involved in our discussions on this treaty. In other 
words, by the time the New START treaty was formally submitted to the 
Senate in May, the 111th Congress was already steeped in this, deeply 
steeped in this. No other Senate can now replicate the input we had 
into these negotiations.

Over the next 6 months after the Senate treaty was submitted, the 
Senate became even more immersed in the treaty's details through 
hearings, briefings, documents, and hundreds upon hundreds of questions 
that were submitted to the administration. Something like 900 questions 
were submitted to the administration, and all of them have been 
answered in full.

This Senate has done its homework on the New START treaty, and it is 
this Senate that has an obligation to complete the advice and consent 
on that treaty.

The fact is, there are also very important security reasons for us 
not to wait. Next Sunday, December 5, it will have been 1 year since 
the original START treaty expired--a whole year without on-the-ground 
inspections in Russia. Some people say it doesn't really make a 
difference whether it be a month or 2 months or whatever. I have to 
tell you something: When it comes to nuclear arsenals, every day 
matters. Without this treaty, we know


too little about the only arsenal in the world that has the potential 
to destroy the United States.

As James Clapper, the Director of National Intelligence, said--and he 
does not come to us with an opinion that is clouded by politics; he 
doesn't come to us as a Democrat or a Republican; he comes to us as a 
professional whose task it is to defend the security of our country and 
who has a lifetime career wearing the uniform of our Nation, defending 
our country--he says of ratifying New START, ''I think the earlier, the 
sooner, the better.''

One of our most solemn responsibilities is this responsibility of 
advice and consent. We have been through a tough political year. The 
American people, we all understand--Senators keep coming to the floor 
and referring to the anger. It is real. It is there. We know the 
American people are angry. But they are angry because the business of 
the country does not seem to get done. They are angry because they see 
a partisan food fight, a political food fight taking place instead of 
the serious business of our Nation.

I believe other countries are watching us to see whether we can 
fulfill our constitutional responsibilities. Just how well does this 
democracy we sell all over the world actually work? If we can't make it 
work here at home and we can't deliver now, what kind of a message does 
it send about the power of the United States to leverage its values and 
its interests in the challenging world we face today?

Every Senator has an obligation to ask that question of themselves 
over the course of these next days: Are we a credible partner? Can 
other nations rely on us? What happens when the President of the United 
States negotiates a treaty, and he comes back here and the rest of the 
world sees that treaty bogged down, not in the substance of the treaty 
but in the politics of the day?

With this vote we can demonstrate our resolve and our leadership, and 
we can demonstrate something about the quality of our democracy. I 
think the schedule of the Foreign Relations Committee shows good-faith 
efforts which we have applied to live up to the Senate's 
responsibility.

After the treaty was signed in April, Senator Lugar and I worked 
together to set up a bipartisan review of the treaty. Never once did 
Senator Lugar or I approach this in a partisan way. I am grateful to 
Senator Lugar for his exceptional leadership and his willingness to 
stand up to some of the currents of the day and act on the interests of 
the country as he sees them.

Our primary consideration in the scheduling of witnesses before our 
committee was not whether they would support or oppose the treaty, we 
looked for expertise and we looked for experience. On April 29, the 
committee heard from Bill Perry, former Secretary of Defense, and Jim 
Schlesinger, former Secretary of Defense, Secretary of Energy, and 
Director of Central Intelligence.

These men recently led the congressionally mandated Strategic Posture 
Commission. They both said we should approve the New START treaty. Dr. 
Schlesinger said it is--this is the quote of Dr. Schlesinger, who 
served a Republican President--''obligatory''--that is his word--
''obligatory for the United States to ratify New START.''

Dr. Perry told us this treaty advances American security objectives, 
particularly with respect to nuclear proliferation and nuclear 
terrorism. On May 18, the committee held a hearing with Secretary 
Clinton, Secretary Gates, and Admiral Mullen. Admiral Mullen told us 
the New START treaty ''has the full support of your uniformed 
military.''

Secretary Gates made clear the treaty will not constrain U.S. missile 
defense efforts. He said:




 From the very beginning of this process more than 40 years 


 ago the Russians have hated missile defense. They do not want 


 to devote the resources to it and so they try and stop us 


 from doing it through political means. This treaty does not 


 accomplish that for them.


That is what Secretary Gates said. The next day, former Secretary of 
State Jim Baker, who helped negotiate START I and helped negotiate 
START II, said that the New START ''appears to take our country in a 
direction that can enhance our national security while at the same time 
reducing the number of nuclear warheads on the planet.''

A week later, on May 25, Henry Kissinger recommended ratification of 
the treaty. He also cautioned us that rejection of the treaty would, in 
his words, have an ''unsettling impact'' on the international 
environment.

We also heard from two former National Security Advisers; Stephen 
Hadley, who served under George W. Bush, who told us the treaty is ''a 
modest but nonetheless useful contribution to the security of the 
United States and to international security''; and Brent Scowcroft, who 
served under George H.W. Bush, said he supports the treaty and he told 
us the New START does not restrict our missile defense plans. He said 
the Russian unilateral statement was simply an issue of ''domestic 
politics for the Russians.''

So we heard from some of the most eminent statesmen this country has 
produced, Republicans and Democrats, with decades and decades of public 
service. They said we should approve this treaty. In all, six former 
Secretaries of State, five former Secretaries of Defense, the Chair and 
Vice Chair of the 9/11 Commission, and numerous other distinguished 
Americans have said it is important we approve New START.

On July 14, seven former heads of the U.S. Strategic Command and 
Strategic Air Command sent the committee a letter urging approval of 
the treaty. Indeed, some of the strongest support for this treaty has 
come from the military, which unanimously supports the treaty. On June 
16, I chaired a hearing on the U.S. nuclear posture, modernization of 
the nuclear weapons complex, and our missile defense plans.

GEN Kevin Chilton, commander of the U.S. Strategic Command, which is 
responsible for overseeing our nuclear deterrence, explained why the 
military supports the New START. He said:




 If we don't get the treaty, A, the Russians are not 


 constrained in their development of force structure, and, B, 


 we have no insight into what they are doing. So it is the 


 worst of both possible worlds.


Again, the commander of the U.S. Strategic Command says not ratifying 
this treaty is the worst of both possible worlds. And LTG Patrick 
O'Reilly, who heads the Missile Defense Agency, told us the New START 
does not limit our missile defense plans.




 I have briefed the Russians, personally in Moscow, on every 


 aspect of our missile defense development. I believe they 


 understand what that is. And that these plans for development 


 are not limited by this Treaty.


In other words, the Russians know what we intend to do and they 
signed the treaty, nonetheless.

On July 14, the committee had a closed hearing on monitoring and 
verification of treaty compliance with senior officials from the 
intelligence community. Obviously, that was a highly classified 
briefing. But every Senator is welcome to go down to the Office of 
Senate Security and read the transcript of that hearing, which I 
suspect will stay there and not appear in WikiLeaks.

If my colleagues want a public statement on verification, I would 
once again cite what James Clapper, the Director of National 
Intelligence, said last week about ratifying the New START treaty:




 I think the earlier, the sooner, the better. You know the 


 thing is, from an intelligence perspective only--


This is General Clapper's perspective--



 are we better off with it or without it? We're better off 


 with it.


The committee also heard testimony from the directors of the Nation's 
three nuclear laboratories. As we all know, much of the debate on the 
treaty has focused on the resources that are needed to sustain our 
nuclear deterrent and modernize our nuclear weapons infrastructure, and 
it was important for our committee to hear from the responsible 
officials directly. They praised the Obama administration's budget 
request for this fiscal year. I suspect my colleague from North Dakota, 
in a few minutes, will have something to say about that additional 
funding for the nuclear modernization program and the plan of action 
that has been outlined.

I will simply say, again and again, the administration has bent over 
backward to work in good faith openly and accountably with Senator Kyl. 
I have been part of those discussions all


along. I think we have acted in good faith to try to meet the needs--so 
much so that we put money into the continuing resolution a few months 
ago, in order to show our good faith for this effort to try to produce 
the modernization funding as we go forward.

In all, the Foreign Relations Committee conducted 12 open and 
classified hearings, featuring more than 20 witnesses. The Armed 
Services and Intelligence Committees held more than eight hearings and 
classified briefings of their own. We did not stack the deck with 
Democrats. In fact, most of the former officials who testified were 
Republicans. Even the executive branch witnesses included several 
holdovers from the last administration--Secretary Gates, Admiral 
Mullen, General Chilton, Lieutenant General O'Reilly--all originally 
appointed to their posts by President Bush.

Overwhelmingly, these witnesses supported timely ratification of the 
New START treaty. As I have said, some of the strongest endorsements 
came from America's military leaders. The combined wisdom of our 
current and former military and civilian leaders, accumulated over 
decades in service, not to political parties but in service to the 
Nation as a whole, was clear: All of them said this treaty should be 
ratified.

Over the summer, the committee also reviewed a number of important 
documents, including a National Intelligence Estimate, assessing the 
U.S. capability to monitor compliance with the terms of the New START, 
a State Department report assessing international compliance with arms 
control agreements, including Russia's compliance with the original 
START, the State Department's analysis of the New START's 
verifiability, a classified summary of discussions during the treaty 
negotiations on the issue of missile defense.

By the end of July, the Foreign Relations Committee had compiled an 
extensive record. We could have reported the treaty out of committee 
then. We had the votes. I was prepared to move forward, but because 
some Republican Senators knew we were prepared to move forward, they 
came and asked for more time to review the treaty and to look at the 
testimony and the documents we had gathered.

So, in August, in direct response to this Republican request, I made 
a decision as chairman to postpone for 6 weeks, over the course of the 
August recess, until after that so Members would have more time to 
review the record, as the Republicans requested. Frankly, the treaty, I 
have said again and again, is too important to get caught up in 
partisan politics, so I thought it was very important not to allow 
anybody to say we were rushing it.

We gave that additional time, even though we had the votes. We came 
back afterwards and we dealt with each and every one of the concerns 
that were raised in good faith. Frankly, it is important to have 
reciprocal good faith in the workings of the Senate. Over the next 6 
weeks, I encouraged Senators to contact Senator Lugar and me with their 
comments on a draft resolution of ratification. In discussions with 
Senator Lugar, Senator Corker, Senator Isakson, I made it clear we 
welcomed and needed their input and, indeed, we got their input.

At the same time, the Armed Services and Intelligence Committees were 
wrapping up their work on the treaty. Senators Levin and McCain each 
wrote to the Foreign Relations Committee with their views on the 
treaty, as did Senators Feinstein and Bond from the Intelligence 
Committee.

We received the answers to several outstanding questions Senators had 
posed to the administration. In all, over the past 7 months, Senators 
formally submitted some 900 questions to the Obama administration, and 
they have received thorough responses to every one of them.

By mid-September, our bipartisan work produced a resolution of 
ratification we should all be able to support. Our review process was 
not designed to cheerlead for the treaty. It was designed to probe 
every aspect of the treaty and to come up with a resolution that 
provided the Senate's input and protected the prerogatives of the 
Senate and, indeed, of individual Senator's points of views. That is 
what we have done. At 28 pages, the resolution of ratification--
including 13 conditions, 3 understandings, 10 declarations--addresses 
every serious topic we have discussed over these months. If a Senator 
was worried about the treaty and missile defense, then condition (5), 
understanding (1), and declarations (1) and (2) addressed those issues.

If they were worried about modernization of our nuclear weapons 
complex and strategic delivery vehicles, then condition (9) and 
declaration (13) addressed those concerns.

If they were worried about conventional prompt global strike 
capabilities, then conditions (6) and (7), understanding (3) and 
declaration (3) addressed those.

Worried about tactical nuclear weapons? Well, that is in there. 
Verifying Russian compliance? It is in there. Even the concern that was 
raised about rail-mobile missiles was fully addressed in the resolution 
of ratification.

In short, the resolution is the product of careful, bipartisan 
deliberation and collaboration intended to address each of the concerns 
that was raised. That does not mean the resolution is perfect. It does 
not mean it could not possibly be further improved. But in the past 
weeks, I have been reaching out to colleagues to get additional ideas. 
I will be happy to consider any germane amendment that colleagues might 
propose. But the only way to do that is by having the floor debate on 
this treaty.

With the Senate now back in session, there are 33 days before the end 
of the year. All of us would obviously not like to repeat what happened 
last year and not be here right up until Christmas Eve. But there is 
plenty of time in the next 3 weeks for debate.

Look at the record. The original START agreement was a far more 
dramatic treaty than the New START because its cuts were sharper and 
because the Soviet Union had just collapsed, leaving tremendous 
uncertainty in its wake. Yet the full Senate needed only 5 days of 
floor time before it approved that treaty, by a vote of 93 to 6, a far 
more complicated and far more provocative, if you will, treaty at that 
time.

The START II treaty took only 2 days on the floor in the Senate 
before it was approved by a vote of 87 to 4.

So leave the precedent aside for a moment. When it comes to 
protecting our national security, the American people expect us to make 
time. That is exactly what we are prepared to do.

We are prepared to work around the clock. If time is the only 
concern, then we have no concerns. Given the time that it took to 
consider past treaties, it is clear we can do this. We are not new to 
this business. We are not new to this treaty. We could get this done if 
there is a will to do so. I know some Senators still worry about the 
administration's plans with respect to modernization of the nuclear 
weapons complex. That is not directly within the four corners of the 
treaty, but I understand their concern. So let's review the work very 
quickly that has been done there.

The Obama administration proposed spending $80 billion over the next 
10 years. That is a 15-percent increase over the baseline budget, even 
after accounting for inflation. It is much more than was spent during 
the Bush administration's 8 years. Still some Senators have concerns.

On September 15, the Vice President assured our committee that the 
10-year plan would be updated and a revised 2012 budget figure would be 
provided this fall. In the meantime, because I believed that the 
nuclear weapons program ought to be adequately funded, I worked with 
other colleagues--with the leader and Senators Dorgan and Inouye--to 
guarantee that an anomaly in the continuing resolution that we passed 
in October provided an additional $100 million for the past 2 months. 
It ensured that we would get the updated figures from the 
administration. The administration has now provided those figures. It 
is asking for an additional $5 billion over the next 10 years.

I remind colleagues that according to the resolution of ratification, 
if any of this funding does not materialize in future years, the 
President will be required to report to Congress as to how he is going 
to address the shortfall. But if the Senate does not now approve the 
ratification of the New START, it will become increasingly difficult 
without


any requirement for a report, and it will become increasingly difficult 
to provide that funding. That is a solid reason why we ought to get 
this done now.

Ultimately, bottom line, we need to approve this treaty because it is 
critical to the security of our country. It is better to have fewer 
nuclear weapons aimed at the United States. It is better to have the 
right to inspect Russian facilities. It is better to have Russia as an 
ally in our efforts to contain Iran and North Korea and in order to 
deal with the global proliferation challenge. Our military thinks it is 
better to have these things. If any of my colleagues disagree, let them 
make their case to the full Senate. That is the way it is supposed to 
work around here. Let them make their case to the American people. If 
the American people said anything in this election year, it is that 
Congress needs to get down to the real business of our Nation. If the 
national security of our Nation is not the real business, I don't know 
what is. They have asked us to protect American interests. By ratifying 
this treaty, we will do so.

I yield the floor.