# None
## `e0da0044d04c584a89d2c46c4c9445ab`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. I thank the gentlewoman from Ohio. I am so glad 
that she comes to the floor often to share with Members and the 
American people on issues that need light. It is good when we are able 
to give good information out.

Mr. Speaker, I think it is important as we go through this week of 
accountability in Washington, D.C. I think that is what people have 
been waiting on and counting on. The leadership is being provided to 
make that happen.

Earlier you heard me talk about the whistleblower legislation that 
was passed here today. When we start talking about ending waste in 
Federal contracting, we start looking at strengthening protections for 
Federal whistleblowers and moving to increase disclosure requirements 
for Presidential records, and also requiring disclosure of big donors 
to Presidential libraries. Providing long-term, overdue, 
constitutionally mandated oversight over veterans' health care crises 
and other Federal issues is very, very important. This is serious work, 
and there are some serious pieces of legislation that will cross this 
floor.

Tomorrow we will be dealing with the whole issue of accountability in 
contracting. That is so very, very important, not only with the war in 
Iraq and the war in Afghanistan, but many of the contracts that are 
being executed in Homeland Security and the Defense Department. As we 
start to look at future disasters, looking at future contracting in our 
Federal agencies, it is important.

Limited duration of no-bid contracts awarded in emergencies to 8 
months; within the emergency, Mr. Speaker, if it is an emergency, it is 
an emergency, not an emergency over the next 4 years for no-bid 
contracts. And many of the bigger companies have taken advantage of the 
no-bid contracts and have been the headline of several news articles 
about the fact that we have not provided the kind of oversight needed.

Also, requiring large Federal agencies to develop and implement a 
plan to minimize the use of noncompetitive contracts in having no-bid 
contracts, and many of these Federal agencies have not only doubled, 
but tripled in some instances.



So overall within the Bush administration that has doubled under this 
administration.

Also, requiring large Federal agencies to implement a plan in 
minimizing the use of cost-plus contracting. Cost-plus contracting are 
the type of contracts that give contractors little or no incentive to 
control costs. This is so very, very important. This kind of 
contracting has grown by 75 percent under this present administration.

This legislation that we are passing or will pass tomorrow hopefully 
as we debate it on the floor is not for the Bush administration. It is 
for the future. It is from this point on of how we are going to deal 
with contracting, how we are going to cut out some of this waste that 
is taking place here in Washington, D.C., and throughout the Federal 
Government.

This is really tackling many of the issues that we have right here 
under our nose, Mr. Speaker. We do not have to go off into foreign 
lands and try to figure out how we can correct. We need to correct some 
things right here in Washington, D.C., on how we do business.

Also, requiring agencies to prepare a public letter explaining why 
they awarded a no-bid contract. Again, shedding light where we do not 
have light now. This is leadership and work. It takes work to uncover 
the fact that we must shed light on the issue of no-bid contracting.

Also, requiring that contractors that overcharge more than $1 
million, that it is disclosed to Congress. We want to bring about 
accountability. Disclose it. Right now, contractors that go over and 
overcharge, go over the billions of dollars. When I was on Homeland 
Security Committee last year, the oversight committee, seeing all of 
the contractors that overcharged and was paid by the Federal agencies 
and Homeland Security, you charge us, you sent us a bill, we will pay 
it, no accountability, no oversight. Those days are over. It is going 
to start here tomorrow here on this floor.

I urge all Members to vote for the legislation in the affirmative, 
and Mr. Speaker, maybe tomorrow when we come to the floor, the 30-
something Working Group, maybe we will have a bipartisan vote on this 
legislation. It is kind of hard for anyone to go home and say I voted 
for the Accountability in Contracting Act. Just the word 
''accountability'' I have been using that for the last 3, 4 weeks. We 
will see. I hope we have it.

Also, making sure that we close the revolving door and requiring that 
former Federal procurement officers wait 1 year before seeking 
employment at lobbying and contracting firms; require that the Federal 
procurement officer wait 1 year before involving themselves in 
contracts given by the former employer.

I think it is important, Mr. Speaker, once again, we had just here on 
this floor, we have had Members that have anchored bills, led it 
through Congress and announced retirement, in past Congresses they have 
done this, announced retirement and go into the private sector and make 
millions, but that happens under the lights of this Chamber.

But in some of these Federal agencies, you have some folks that will 
start a project and then have an end date of when they are going to end 
their Federal employment to do what? To go out and manage the project. 
Again, I do not know an Independent, Republican or Democrat that would 
endorse that kind of activity.

Why will the Accountability in Contracting Act be on the floor to 
tomorrow? Because the Democratic leadership has the will and the desire 
to clean up the waste in Washington, D.C., not just talking about it, 
not just


having boards behind us saying we believe in accountability, we hate 
waste, but actually doing something about it.

This should be good for the private sector, too, of making sure that 
their employees and individuals that work with them and subcontractors 
that work with them on Federal contracts are accountable and that they 
make sure that they pay very close attention to what they are doing 
with the taxpayer dollars.

So, Mr. Speaker, with that, I look forward to coming to the floor 
tomorrow, talking about the victories of this week. I believe tomorrow 
will be our last day voting here this week, and I would like to just 
recap and also talk about what is coming up next week. The reason why 
we are going through this process is because not only has the 
leadership asked for inclusion of ideas, but to make sure that no one 
feels excluded of being a part of this process and having the 
opportunity to vote on legislation.

The bipartisan votes that I have mentioned earlier will continue to 
add on to that list, and soon I am pretty sure it will be in the high 
30s and 40s because legislation that makes sense to the people back 
home are coming to the floor of the House of Representatives in a 
record number like it has never done before.

So I am happy that we are having these bipartisan votes. I am happy 
that we are working as though we were in the minority, hungry to 
provide leadership. I am glad that accountability is shining on to this 
floor and throughout the halls of Congress, and with that, Mr. Speaker, 
once again, it was an honor addressing the House.
