# GENERAL LEAVE
## `e1135a63ac740509aa47b81a05d32782`
`Mr. EMANUEL â€” 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague from California. Two 
weeks ago, President Bush came to my district to highlight Horace 
Greeley School. It is a Blue Ribbon School and is recognized for Leave 
No Child Behind for its accomplishment in teaching children and raising 
their standards.

I went to that event with the President, because as he said, making 
sure you had qualified teachers in that school was important. I would 
also like to say that you need qualified nurse technicians. While you 
want to test kids for math, we believe you also must test them for 
measles. While you must worry about the principal, we also want to 
worry about the pediatrician. And you must have a comprehensive 
approach to those children, from their pediatrician to the principal, 
from testing for measles to testing for math and from a teacher to a 
technician.

One-third of the children at Horace Greeley, slightly more, are 
children enrolled in SCHIP. Now, those children do well because we 
raised their standards. They also do well because they have good health 
care, and we did right by them. Their parents work. Predominately, 50 
percent of the school are Hispanics. The rest is mixed. About a quarter 
are Caucasian.

The President of the United States picked a school in the inner city 
of Chicago, because of the about 200 schools across the country that 
are Blue Ribbon Schools, those kids met the standards. Their teachers 
met the standards. But we did it in a comprehensive fashion. We made 
sure that they had qualified teachers. We are making sure that they 
have qualified technicians. We made sure they have a qualified 
principal. They also must have a qualified pediatrician. And that is 
what made those kids and our future brighter.

I was proud that the President came to my district and recognized a 
school


in a tough area doing right by kids. And the question is, will this 
floor do right by those children? And I am not sure. No, we won't have 
the votes to override the President's veto. And I told him then, ''You 
want to reauthorize No Child Left Behind because it raised the 
standard. We want to also reauthorize the SCHIP program.''

Last November, the American people said they want a change in 
Washington to set the right priorities, and one of those things was to 
work together across party lines. We did that here. Unfortunately, one 
thing didn't change, and that is enough Republicans that want to 
rubber-stamp policies that I believe are misdirected. Investing in 10 
million children for the cost of 41 days in the war in Iraq will give 
those children more than just a blue ribbon; it will give them a chance 
at the future.

