# None
## `e12a91ef2c001e33ee22048786d043e8`
`Mr. SPRATT â€” 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend for yielding and 
thank all of you for participating in this Special Order tonight. You 
know, we tend to think of ourselves as urbanized, even in the Southeast 
these days. But in South Carolina, my State, and even more so in North 
Carolina, agriculture is critically important as part of our total 
economy. In South Carolina, 46,000 full- and part-time jobs are 
supported by agriculture. That is 22 percent of all the jobs in our 
State; $15.1 billion in income is attributable to agriculture, 17 
percent of the State's total income.

I could go on to show that even now in the 21st century, we in the 
Carolinas and throughout the Southeast still have a lot of agriculture, 
and we are critically dependent upon it. Our farmers and our people 
throughout the Southeast are faced with just about the worst drought I 
have seen in I don't know when. And it keeps getting worse and worse. I 
went to Marlboro County, probably one of the most agricultural counties 
in the 14 counties I represent. I couldn't believe what I saw. And it 
hasn't gotten any better since then. Soybeans that never develop. There 
is no pod. Cotton that is barely worth getting out of the fields. Hay, 
peanuts, pastures, you name it, they are all suffering. It is basically 
at the level of being catastrophic unless we can help and help soon. In 
Marlboro, back in September, the threshold for the Department of 
Agriculture in declaring a crop or an area a disaster area is 33 
percent crop loss. Marlboro County in September, 2 months ago 
virtually, at least 6 weeks ago, had 67 percent of its crop already 
damaged. It is worse by now I am sure. I represent 14 counties, small-
town counties, proud counties, but still dependent on agriculture, and 
13 of those 14 counties were included recently in a disaster 
declaration from the Secretary of Agriculture. That is how widespread 
the disaster situation is.

Our Commission of Agriculture estimates that in South Carolina alone, 
the losses are going to equal $500 to $600 million. Now, most people 
don't know it, but most farmers today, responsible farmers, carry crop 
insurance underwritten and subsidized by the Federal Government. But it 
is not enough to cover their losses. It is partial recovery, but it is 
not nearly enough. The existing law requires, allows disaster relief 
and other forms of relief to farmers who have suffered from natural 
disasters, provided that they planted their crops or harvested their 
crops before February 28, 2007. Unfortunately, that applies to very few 
of our farmers in the crops that they plant. Consequently, they have 
next to no coverage, next to no protection from disaster relief that 
some farmers in other parts of the country would enjoy.

Basically what we would like simply to see happen is for our farmers 
to be cut into the same program of relief that other farmers are 
enjoying by virtue of existing agriculture law. That is what we are 
asking for. And there's several different ways to do it. Supplementals 
will be coming through here with capital improvements in various parts 
of the world, Iraq, Afghanistan; we could afford something in those 
bills for our own farmers. The farm bill itself will be coming back 
here in conference report. Maybe there is some way we can adjust it to 
provide for us. The Agriculture appropriations bill has not yet been 
passed. There are lots of opportunities.

We are here tonight to say we need the help of everyone, beginning 
with the administration. The Bush administration could initiate this 
process by requesting in the next supplemental some sort of assistance 
for these farmers, as was done and should have been done for the 
farmers suffering from wild fire on the west coast and, by golly, that 
will be a big first step and help us finish the process, carry the ball 
across the goal line here in Congress.

We are here tonight from all over the Southeast to bring the same 
message to the Congress, to the country and to the Bush administration. 
We are hurting, hurting bad. And if we don't get some sort of relief, 
it is going to be devastating for our farmers.

Thank you very much for the time you have yielded.