# None
## `e1fca15b62dec72cdb389abb68d77f1e`
`Mr. ROCKEFELLER â€” 16 April 2007`

---


Mr. ROCKEFELLER. Madam President, I have to declare myself absolutely 
a series of things: furious, double-crossed, misled, minimized--in 
terms of my role as a Senator and as chairman of the Intelligence 
Committee--shocked by the arrogance of the technique that was used 
between the White House and the minority leader to say to Republicans, 
after weeks in which Vice Chairman Bond and I worked out a compromise 
on a managers' amendment on which we worked in good faith--I dropped 
things he did not like, he dropped things I did not like--but it was a 
genuine effort.

Vice Chairman Bond, whom I respect greatly, stood here praising the 
managers' amendment. Then the word came down from the White House--not 
from Vice Chairman Bond but from the White House--through the minority 
leader, that this vote was to be a test of Republican Party loyalty and 
that therefore all Republicans were instructed to vote against it.

In all of my years in the Senate, and certainly all of my years on 
the Intelligence Committee, I have never seen something so repugnant, 
putting politics over national security. That is the bottom line. 
Politics was put over national security.

An order came down: This is a test of Republican Party loyalty. When 
it comes to that, by golly, you put politics over national security.

Thirty-one people, at least, died at Virginia Tech University this 
afternoon. All of my kids went to camp there. I know a number of 
students down there. I called to find out that they were OK, and there 
was grief everywhere. Republicans were standing up, Democrats were 
standing up expressing they were horrified.

I was just trying to figure out how many intelligence agents, how 
many soldiers--because of inadequate intelligence or because of some 
slip-up or something we had not done, something which we were prepared 
to correct or did correct in the managers' amendment--died, and I 
suspect the number was essentially greater than 31.

Now, my heart goes out to those 31. I know some of them who were 
spared. I was in despair until I knew they were OK.

But this act of cynicism, this act for the third year in a row, 
blocking intelligence legislation is beyond me. We all understand 
nothing can happen in military action without intelligence leading the 
way in; to scout out the territory, to get the feeling, to get through 
language skills, et cetera, to get the feeling of what is going on so 
we know what we are getting into.

I will not get into the importance of intelligence for Iraq or 
Afghanistan, but this is a real crusher. I am not shocked or 
discouraged with the intelligence. I am more fired up than ever on 
intelligence. I am shocked because something like this happens in the 
United States Senate for any reason at any time. I have been in this 
body for 24 years.

I have been in this body for 24 years, and on one occasion a majority 
leader called me at home--I happened to be shaving, and it was not a 
convenient phone call--and asked me to vote against a particular piece 
of legislation, which I was going to vote against in any event. That 
has never happened since then. Not once have I been instructed by my 
party or by my minority or majority leader to vote a certain way.

Yet when it comes to national security, to funding intelligence 
agencies, where we change the authorities, where we spent weeks in 
trying to work out hard problems, and did so in the managers' 
amendment, with more amendments to come, which we would have agreed to, 
to alleviate the White House's concern--the White House decided they do 
not like oversight. Well, I understand that. When I was a Governor, I 
did not like oversight. Nobody likes oversight, but it is our 
constitutional responsibility. We do not have that choice. We have that 
duty.

One of the great things about the Intelligence Committee is it has 
come together in recent months to accept this responsibility and to 
reach out and take hold of it with a vigor and a lust that makes us 
want to do more--but not to overdo but to do. Then along comes this 
vote.

It certainly is the most disappointing day, the most disappointing 
vote, the most disappointing sign of where we are in this country--the 
most disappointing sense of the relationship between the executive 
branch and the legislative branch--the failure of the realization we 
exist for a reason, that we work hard, getting ready for this vote 
because we had a chance to do it. Then comes down the instruction: No. 
Politics trumps national security. Prove you are a loyal Republican. 
Vote no.

It is not a good day in the Senate.

Several Senators addressed the Chair.