# None
## `e272c1f1ed93286f03dd36e57663561e`
`Mr. CARPER â€” 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, thank you very much. I thank the floor 
manager on the majority side for this unanimous consent which allows me 
to proceed now under morning business.

I wish to say a word or two about the Defense authorization bill 
which is before us, and then I want to pivot. I will talk about the 
health of our Nation's defense, but also about the health care of our 
people.

Let me start off by extending my thanks to the leaders of the Armed 
Services Committee, Senator Levin and Senator McCain, and their staffs 
for the good work they have done. I wish to thank Senator Reed of Rhode 
Island for his contributions as well. Standing here on the floor, I am 
looking at Senator Reed, a graduate of the


Military Academy at West Point, and right across the aisle, at Senator 
McCain, a graduate of the Naval Academy. It is great to have that kind 
of experience here in the Senate. They are sitting on opposite sides of 
the aisle, coming from schools that are sometimes thought to be rivals, 
but they are able to work together when we need them to.

I wish to express my thanks to the President and to the Secretary of 
Defense Bob Gates. We have learned that in the last 7 years, cost 
overruns from major weapons systems in this country grew from about $45 
million in 2001 to last year almost $300 billion, a growth over 7 years 
in cost overruns for major weapons systems in 2001 of $45 million and 
last year almost $300 billion. What we need is for the administration 
as well as the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs to say to the 
folks on the Armed Services Committee, but also to say to us in the 
Senate and in the House: These are the weapons systems we need, these 
are the threats we believe we face as a nation, and to give us some 
sense of priorities of the weapons systems we should support and fund, 
the troop levels we need and, frankly, the weapons systems we don't 
need and the troop levels we don't need.

I was privileged to follow on the heels of the Presiding Officer, 
Senator Kaufman, about a month and a half ago to Afghanistan and 
Pakistan. He and Senator Reed, I think, led that CODEL and shared with 
us our needs in that part of the world. We need a military strategy and 
we also need a civilian strategy in Afghanistan, and I think this 
administration has given us a good two-pronged approach. We have good 
new leadership there on the military side. Basically, though, they said 
our job here is counterinsurgency. We need more troops, more trainers 
to train the Afghans and to train the military side, and then the 
civilian side. We also need mobility in terms of a lot of additional 
helicopters, about 150 new helicopters or additional ones coming in to 
provide the mobility to move our men and women all over the southern 
part of Afghanistan, and to meet the Taliban threat.

The kind of weapon we don't use there or don't need there, I will be 
very blunt, is the F-22 which we discussed and debated here for the 
last several days, a fighter aircraft that has been around for a dozen 
or so years. We are still building more of them, but they have never 
flown a flight mission in Iraq and never flown a flight mission in 
Afghanistan either. The F-22 is limited in what it can do. It basically 
is a fighter, air-to-air combat. The Afghans, the Taliban, don't have 
fighter aircraft. In Iraq, the folks we are fighting there don't have 
aircraft. Meanwhile, we have F-15s, F-16s, F-18s. We are going to build 
2,500 F-35s, for less than half the price of the F-22, which not only 
do dog fights but can also do ground-to-air support and a variety of 
different functions that the F-22 cannot for a lot less money. The 
administration, I think wisely, said as hard as it is sometimes to stop 
the production line on aircraft, in this case the F-22, in terms of 
what is cost effective, we need to refocus on the F-35 and on 
counterinsurgency, preparing for those kinds of challenges we face. We 
voted to do that, a 58-to-40 vote. I was very pleased with the vote and 
I commend everyone who voted as they did, and, frankly, the people who 
took the opposite view. There were some tough issues to deal with, I 
know particularly from folks in whose States the aircraft are being 
produced and systems for those aircraft are being produced. I know it 
is difficult to accept. But I am encouraged by that vote.

My hope is we will pay heed to some of the priorities sent to us by 
the Secretary of Defense, which are designed to make sure we spend 
money on weapons systems that we are likely to need in the 21st 
century--certainly in the next decade or two or three--and I think with 
today's vote, we are on a better path to do that.















 Health Care Reform


Sort of pivoting, if I can, after having said a word about the health 
of our Nation's defense, let me talk about the health of the people in 
our country. Some of my colleagues are probably getting tired of 
hearing me say this, but when talking about health care, I mention four 
things: No. 1, we spend more money for health care than any other 
nation on Earth. No. 2, we don't get better results. No. 3, we have 
14,000 people in this country today losing their health care. No. 4, 
some 47 million Americans today don't have health insurance, don't have 
health care. We have to do better than this. We have to do better than 
this. I believe we can.

There has been a big focus, as there should be, on extending health 
care coverage to 47 million folks who don't have it, and we need to 
address that, obviously. Having said that, the other concern we need to 
address is reining in the growth of health care costs. We are getting 
clobbered as a nation in terms of being able to compete with the rest 
of the world where we pay so much more money for health care than any 
other nation, and employers pay, and we are getting clobbered as a 
Federal Government with the cost of Medicare and Medicaid, and State 
governments trying to bear their share of the cost of Medicaid. They 
see enormous pressures on their State budgets.

Over lunch today, I said to my colleagues in our caucus meeting that 
wouldn't it be great if somehow we could have our cake and eat it too. 
I said that with a piece of chocolate cake staring me right in the 
face. But as it turned out, there are delivery systems, if you will, of 
health care in this country where they are not necessarily having their 
cake and eating it too, but where they are able to provide better 
health care, better outcomes, at a lower price. Think about that: 
better health care, better outcomes, better quality of health care at a 
lower price.


The names are beginning to become familiar to us. Some are already 
familiar: Mayo in Minnesota, and now they have an operation down in 
Florida too to see if that model will work in Florida, and it has; 
Kaiser Permanente in northern California, an outfit called 
Intermountain Health--all of these are nonprofits--Cleveland Clinic in 
Cleveland, OH, an outfit called Geisinger in Hershey, PA; there is what 
is called a health care cooperative in the State of Washington, I 
believe it is around Puget Sound, called Puget Sound Cooperative where 
they have been able to emulate this interesting result of better 
quality outcomes, better health care, lower prices.

What we need to do is to attempt not only to extend health care 
coverage to folks who don't have it--47 million--but to rein in the 
growth of health care costs. The idea that health care costs grow at 2 
or 3 or 4 percent over the consumer price index, to continue to do that 
is going to cripple us economically and competitively as a nation. It 
is going to cripple our ability to rein in our large and growing 
deficits.

In the last 8 years in this Nation we ran up as much new debt as we 
did in the first 208 years of our Nation's history. Think about that: 
In the last 8 years, we ran up as much new debt in this country as we 
did in our first 208 years as a nation. This year we are on track to 
have the biggest single-year deficit we have ever had. We are also in 
the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression, and we are 
trying to stimulate the economy and get it moving. I am encouraged that 
it is starting to move, but that is a huge deficit, coming on the heels 
of, frankly, 8 years where we spent like drunken sailors, and I know 
how drunken sailors spend. It is not a pretty sight, and this is, 
frankly, not a pretty sight either.

We need to go to school on the Mayos, the Geisingers, the Cleveland 
Clinics, the Kaiser Permanentes, the Puget Sounds, the Intermountain 
Healths, and see what we can learn from them. What is their secret? How 
are they able to do this, better outcomes, less price?

As it turns out, there are a number of things they do in common. I 
wish to mention a few of them today. Among the things they do, they 
have literally brought on to their staff the doctors at Cleveland 
Clinic, for example, who provide health care. They are on staff at the 
Cleveland Clinic. The same is true at Mayo and these other nonprofits.

I saw an interesting special on CNN a couple of weekends ago. They 
were interviewing a number of people who worked at the Cleveland 
Clinic. They interviewed a fellow who is a doctor, a cardiologist, as I 
recall. He used to be in private practice. He said, in the old days 
when I was on my own in private practice or group practice, I got paid, 
compensated, for the number of hearts I operated on. If somebody came 
to me


and they had a heart problem and it could be addressed by diet or 
exercise or medicine, he said, usually I didn't prescribe those things. 
I didn't get paid for doing that. If they needed to have a heart 
operation and we could address their problem with an operation, he 
said, I got paid for that. As a result, I was more inclined to operate 
on people's hearts than to use some approaches that were arguably more 
cost effective. He went on to say, now I work for the Cleveland Clinic. 
I am a staff doc here. I don't have to operate on people's hearts to be 
compensated. I can provide good advice, help people with their diet 
problems, their exercise problems, their weight problems. I can help 
people better understand what their opportunities are with medicine. I 
still get paid. Bingo.

So a light went off for me. Some of us are hearing quite a bit the 
need to get away from these fee-for-service deals where we basically 
incentivize doctors, hospitals, and nurses to ask for and order more 
visits, more procedures, more MRIs, more lab tests, for imaging, more 
x-rays, because they get paid for it, because they know that by doing 
more of everything, they reduce the likelihood that they are going to 
be sued. That sort of gets us in this conundrum where we overuse health 
care. If we are going to have real success in drawing down the costs of 
health care, part of it will be addressing the issue of fee for 
service, get away from that practice, and get away from the 
overutilization of the health care we have.

Let me mention some of the things they are doing at these five or six 
entities I mentioned, these nonprofits. Among the things they do is 
coordinate care. I use my mom as an example. My mom is now deceased. 
She lived in Florida for roughly the last 30 or so years of her life. 
She had dementia; she had congestive heart failure; she had arthritis. 
She had five doctors. The last years of her life that she was down 
there, my sister and I would go down to visit my mom about every other 
month or so. We would take turns, and we would go with our mom to visit 
her doctors. These five doctors my mom had never talked to each other. 
In fact, I don't think they knew that the other doctors existed. They 
were all in the aggregate prescribing something like 15 different kinds 
of prescription medicines. We kept them at her home in what looked like 
my dad's old fishing tackle box. It was compartmentalized with 
medicines to take before breakfast, during breakfast, after breakfast; 
before lunch, during lunch, and throughout the day. Some of those 
medicines my mom was prescribed, she didn't need to take. Somebody 
needed to know what she was taking and say, You shouldn't be taking 
these two medicines in combination; they are hurting you. We didn't 
have good coordination of care of my mom.

One of the things these nonprofits do is coordinate the care that is 
provided to my mom or anybody's mom or dad. Another thing that would 
have been very helpful for my mom or other people in that situation is 
to have electronic health records. If my mom had an electronic health 
record such as we have in the VA and like we are developing in Delaware 
and some other States, when my mom went from doctor's office to 
doctor's office they would know in each office who else she was seeing 
and the medicines she was being prescribed, the lab tests and 
everything. They would have it right there for her when she came for 
her regular visit.

We have a great ability to harness information technology or 
electronic health care records, which are a big part of that. Our 
nonprofits I have talked about--the half dozen or so--have that in 
common. On wellness and prevention, we know it is not just from 
nonprofits but out in California is Safeway, and these people have 
supermarkets all over America and several hundred thousand employees. 
Their health care costs from 2004 to 2008 have been level and flat. 
They have incentivized employees to do the right thing for themselves, 
in terms of holding down their weight, helping them get off tobacco, to 
fight obesity and lethargy, to get off the sofa, and to eat what is 
right; and there are antismoking campaigns and all kinds of stuff. So 
we have a good model there to perform.

It is not just the nonprofits but a lot of employers are starting to 
get into this as well.

There are another one or two points I will mention on the nonprofits. 
On chronic disease management, such as heart disease and diabetes, I am 
told that about 80 percent of the cost of these chronic diseases can be 
controlled by four factors: diet, exercise, overweight/obesity, and 
smoking. Those four factors control about 80 percent of the cost of our 
expenditures on chronic care. If we work with those four items, we will 
help reduce the costs and provide better outcomes for people. We will 
also hold down our costs. There are a couple lessons from the 
nonprofits and others. Part of it is pharmacy--making sure people who 
need pharmaceutical medicines, small and large molecules, are taking 
those, and somebody is checking to make sure they are taking what they 
need.

Focusing on primary care, many of those people coming out of medical 
schools want to be specialists. They are not interested in being 
primary care doctors. We need more primary care doctors. We need to 
change the incentives to get more primary care doctors, which is what 
we need. Another idea is for us to pool insurance costs. As my 
colleagues know, we have the Federal Employee Health Benefit Plan. We 
have an insurance pool where we pool all the Federal employees and 
their dependents and the retirees and their dependents into one large 
pool to purchase health insurance. They get it at a not cheap price but 
a pretty good price. One of the reasons why is, when you have a lot of 
people in the purchasing pool, you get a good variety and much better 
costs. If you think about the administrative costs for health 
insurance, as a percentage of premiums, I am told, in the Federal 
Employee Health Benefit Program, it is about 10 percent. When it comes 
to people buying individual policies and small businesses, their 
administrative costs as a percentage of premiums are about 30 percent. 
So the idea of creating large purchasing pools makes a whole lot of 
sense.

I will close here. The idea that we would pass health care 
legislation and stop extending coverage for people who don't have it--
if that is all we do, we have failed the American people. We have to do 
at least two things. One is extend coverage but also make sure the 
coverage we extend provides better coverage, better quality outcomes 
and better health care and that we do so at a price that is diminished 
and does not continue to expand by several times the rate of inflation. 
We can do that going forward. That is what we need to do.

My friends have been generous in allowing me to proceed. I see 
several Senators are anxious to get back into the debate.

I yield the floor.