# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `e2cbac9c3469a4f5facaaafdf1c1bff2`
`Ms. CASTOR â€” 16 May 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

We did have a debate over missile defense in the Armed Services 
Committee, but at the end of the day, recall we had a unanimous vote, 
58-0, bipartisan vote, to send this bill to the floor.

I would offer, there is no debate. We must protect this great country 
from nuclear threats, missile threats; and in fact, this bill does 
that.

We have provided $1.4 billion for Patriot PAC-3 and MEADS. These 
funds will be used to purchase additional interceptors, upgrade 
remaining firing units' configuration, continue the development of the 
MEADS program and purchase equipment for two additional Patriot 
battalions.

The committee also authorized $1.1 billion for Aegis BMD, an increase 
of $78 million above the budget request from the White House. These 
funds will be used to continue and expand the fielding of Standard 
Missile-3, improve the discrimination capabilities of the Aegis SPY1 
radar, and continue the joint development with Japan of the SM-3 Block 
IIA missile.

We have authorized $2.3 billion for ground-based missile defense.

The committee supports THAAD and authorizes $858 million to continue 
the purchase of two THAAD firing units. So to come to the floor and say 
that missile defense is not provided for in this bill is incorrect.

What we are facing, though, is because of this war in Iraq, we have 
growing needs for the troops on the ground. So our committee made the 
decision that the troops on the ground come first; that they will have 
the body armor, they will have the MRAP vehicles, the mine-resistant 
vehicles, because that is the priority today. Tough decisions, but our 
troops come first on the ground.

Madam Speaker, I am pleased to yield 2/1/2/ minutes to the gentleman 
from Utah (Mr. Matheson).