# HONORING SERGEANT MERLIN GERMAN
## `e2cc03dfaf1c4d3ee442d8272debbb72`
`Mrs. LOWEY â€” 13 May 2008`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Marine SGT 
Merlin German, who passed away on April 11, more than 3 years after 
surviving a roadside blast in Iraq.

Merlin, a graduate of Woodlands High School, was a dedicated friend, 
son, brother, and citizen. Those who met him could not deny his big 
heart, entrepreneurial spirit, and great sense of humor. The youngest 
of eight children born to Dominican immigrants, he and his siblings 
were not allowed to play with toy guns in the house. Yet this did not 
prevent him from realizing his childhood goal of serving in the 
military, and he enlisted in the Marines in September 2003.

Merlin German became part of a weapons platoon for convoy security in 
Iraq in the fall of 2004 and was charged with spotting improvised 
explosive devices. On February 20, 2005, a bomb exploded next to his 
vehicle. Merlin survived the blast, but began his own battle for 
survival.

Over 97 percent of his body was burned in the explosion, and he was 
given just a 3 percent chance of survival. Merlin proved to be a true 
fighter who, despite undergoing more than 100 operations over the next 
three years, maintained his positive outlook. He cracked jokes and 
mentored new patients at the Brooke Army Medical Center, where he was 
an inpatient. While recovering, he started a charitable foundation, 
Merlin's Miracles, to help burned children.

Sergeant German passed away last month, more than 3 years after 
returning from Iraq. Only 22 years old, Merlin was a true patriot and 
inspiration to all. A recipient of the Purple Heart, he fought 
valiantly on behalf of our country. He continued his fight to improve 
the lives of others, in his efforts to assist burn victims, upon his 
return to the U.S. Our Nation is blessed to have dedicated, talented 
men and women like Merlin German serving in our armed services.

Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring the memory 
of SGT Merlin German, along with all of our Nations' other fallen 
heroes.
