# ENERGY INDEPENDENCE FOR AMERICA
## `e359349777212f4b48d18c0c387e7176`
`Mr. PEARCE â€” 5 December 2007`

---


Mr. PEARCE. Mr. Speaker, now we should talk about the components of 
the bill that is suggested. Again, keep in mind that we are here 
talking about the future of the Nation. We are talking about the 
philosophical underpinning of where we are going in this country with 
our jobs, with our economy, with our future. This bill is at the basis, 
because the American economy is driven by affordable, cheap energy.



And what are we to say about the bill? We are having to speculate. We 
are told that it's coming up this week, either today or tomorrow. It's 
obvious that it's not coming up today. So one would say that it must 
come up tomorrow because we had that promise from the Speaker of the 
House. And yet we don't have the text of the bill that is dealing with 
our future as a Nation, our ability to make and create jobs, and we 
know nothing tonight so that we can not really talk in anything but 
speculative terms. But we feel fairly certain on those speculative 
terms because we have had leaks from behind those closed doors where 
this process is going on.

What are we to believe might be in that bill? First of all, there is 
going to be the renewable fuel standard, the RFS, renewable fuel 
standard, which says that we need to produce a certain amount of our 
energy, our gasoline, from ethanol. That is a worthy and acceptable 
thing if it's possible and if it doesn't stop us from implementing the 
Healthy Forests Act.

The second thing that is in the bill that we feel pretty certain 
about is that there will be some renewable portfolio. That is, we are 
suggesting that companies should produce electricity using renewable 
fuels. The only problem is that the suggestion up to now has been that 
they should produce 15 percent. Now, there's a delicate problem there 
because we have not yet seen the capability to produce from renewable 
fuels 15 percent. Again, one has to wonder about the penalty. Every 
major utility is against this provision because they know they cannot 
comply.

Every single one of us wishes that we were independent of Saudi 
Arabian oil and Hugo Chavez oil. But the truth is we are not. We made 
the wrong decisions 30 years ago, and the wrong decisions are causing 
us the problems that we have today. We did not make incentives in 
renewables 30 years ago. We made it harder to invest in nuclear power 
30 years ago. Today, we are making it harder to invest in coal. We are 
requiring the conversion to natural gas, and that conversion to natural 
gas is pushing the price of natural gas up, which is causing Dow 
Chemical to say we are taking our jobs to where the price of gas is 75 
cents, not over $8. It is a very simple process that we are engaged in.

So the bill, we think, is going to have a renewable fuel standard. 
It's going to have a renewable fuel standard that says we cannot take 
woody fibers out of our national forests, even when they are burning 
down, even when the trees are dead, even when they are at threat of 
burning down. There's going to be a renewable portfolio standard which 
says that you have to produce more energy than what is technically 
feasible right now in this country from renewable sources.

The next thing actually appears to be a good consensus from the auto 
industry on the CAFE standards. If the automakers say that we can hold 
American jobs and we can produce to those standards, again, we have not 
seen the exact standards, but if the automakers say we can keep 
American jobs, then that's one of the key pieces of the debate.

There is another thing in this energy bill that we are supposed to 
bring up tomorrow but yet haven't seen. But there is a component that 
we are assured is going to be there. That is $21 billion in taxes on 
American companies, $21 billion, and the truth is taxes are not paid by 
companies, taxes are passed along by companies. So that is $21 billion 
that is going to come out of the taxpayers' pocket. Every time you fill 
up with gas, $21 billion is going to come from the producer or from the 
taxpayer. It's going to the government and it's going to lower the 
capability for us to balance our personal budgets. So $21 billion in 
taxes in this bill that will be borne by consumers.

Now, the sad thing, and this is where you really must understand that 
there are elements of this tax provision that include a rollback of the 
section 199 manufacturers' deduction. That was a deduction that was 
passed in Congress back in 2004. It included oil and gas, but it was 
specifically there to encourage increased domestic production 
activities. We wanted to assure American jobs and we wanted to assure 
that American jobs were competitive with overseas countries, so we had 
a rollback in the 199 taxes. I'm sorry; we established the section 199 
manufacturers' deduction but the bill that is coming before us, it has 
leaked out that it has a rollback in those incentives for producers.

Now, the difficult thing is that the rollback hits only the top five 
producers. It hits BP, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, and Shell. 
Now if you are listening like I am reading, you're wondering who got 
left out of the list. Who's not going to see a tax increase? Citgo.

Now Citgo is owned by Hugo Chavez. I do not know if it is by design, 
but I can say that according to the information that is out right now, 
there is going to be a rollback in deduction for the top five companies 
so that they pay more taxes, and we are not charging Hugo Chavez any 
more tax. One has to wonder about the value system that says don't 
charge Hugo Chavez tax but do charge Exxon, do charge ConocoPhillips, 
do charge Chevron/Texaco, do charge Shell and BP.

Now, what you have been led to believe, if you listen to the people 
on the left, they want you to believe that ExxonMobil is an evil 
entity; that they by themselves are driving the price of oil up that 
they might profit. When we look at a world assessment of size of 
companies, we realize the falseness of that argument.

Let's look at this chart which begins to look at countries and 
companies. Many countries own their oil companies. Saudi Arabia by far 
has the largest oil company, you can see. It has about 10.3 million 
barrels per day. You go to Iran. It has a very large oil company. The 
Iraqi National Oil Company is actually quite large. Qatar, Kuwait, 
Venezuela, ADNOC, Nigeria. You notice we are not even yet to 
ExxonMobil.

And yet Hillary Clinton says, I am going to take ExxonMobil's profits 
and spend them. Nancy Pelosi has said the same thing, We are going to 
take


ExxonMobil profits and spend them. We haven't taken yet any profits 
from any of these companies, and they dwarf, they dwarf ExxonMobil. We 
go all the way down to this far on the chart before we find the first 
privately owned company, ExxonMobil.

ExxonMobil is owned privately by you, the shareholders, the 
stockholders. You can buy it every day. ExxonMobil is going to be 
charged taxes. It's going to make them less competitive worldwide. We 
are going to do away with more jobs so that these companies, these 
state-owned companies might have an easier time to take our jobs. I 
wonder at the thought process that went into that. I wonder what 
compelled policymakers here, the Speaker of the House to say we are 
going to tax American consumers, we are going to tax American 
companies, and we are going to let Hugo Chavez, we are going to let 
Nigeria, we are going to let Kuwait, Saudi Arabia go.

We also have other considerations. In the bills that we have passed, 
the bills that we have passed out of this Congress so far about energy, 
we have done kind of sort of a tricky thing. There is much discussion 
about Enron. That was the large power company that became synonymous 
with tricky dealings, double dealings.

What did they do? One of the things they did in defrauding the 
consumer, one of the things they did in defrauding the shareholders is 
that they did things called round-trip sales. If they needed their 
balance sheet to look better on a certain day, they would maybe buy or 
sell a lot of energy, maybe a specified amount of energy, and then they 
would simply buy it back, sell it to their own selves in a different 
company, and buy it and sell it, buy it and sell it, round trip, so 
that nobody was actually giving them money, but it looked like money 
coming in, and no one could ever see their balance sheet to see that 
they were actually paying out the money to themselves. It was coming 
in. The sales looked really good until some day you simply have to have 
the cash in hand. Those round-trip sales became synonymous with Enron 
and their double dealing.


But let's look at what this Congress, the new majority, who said they 
are going to do things in such an ethical fashion, let's look at what 
they have done. They have used the same taxes on offshore oil and gas 
in the gulf coast, the gulf region. They used those as on offset 
because we in Congress say we can't spend money without providing for 
it; the PAYGO provision. So they use those same taxes in H.R. 6, and, 
by the way, I am calling these the Enron tax provisions because they 
are kind of like those Enron round-trip sales, those ways of stating 
things so you have to check both sides of the ledger before you 
understand, but there's really not anything there.

So our friends on the other side of the aisle used those offshore 
taxes, those 1998/1999 leases to offset, to be the PAYGO in H.R. 6. 
They used it in H.R. 2419. H.R. 6 we passed back on January 18. H.R. 
2419, we passed July 27. They used them again on August 4 in H.R. 3221. 
And they used them again in H.R. 3058, which still has only passed 
committee but yet has not passed the floor.

When we as policymakers begin to do round-trip sales, it's no wonder 
that we have the reputation that only 9 or 10 percent of the American 
public really trusts what we are doing. We are doing things that do not 
make sense for our economy. We are doing things that are creating a 
false illusion about our potential to pay for things that we are saying 
we are going to do. We are watching our jobs leave and go away, all 
because we in this country need affordable energy, and yet we are doing 
things that hurt the chances of providing affordable energy.

Again, the point that we object to in this coming bill, the energy 
bill we are talking about this week, are the renewable fuel standards 
that are not achievable and keep us from implementing the healthy 
forest initiative so that we don't burn down our forests. It's 
objectionable that a renewable portfolio standard is being set that we 
cannot reach. It's objectionable that we are raising taxes by $21 
billion to American consumers. It's objectionable that we are using a 
tax that is going to be punitive to American companies but will not tax 
foreign oil companies, will not tax Hugo Chavez. At the end of the day 
we have to ask ourselves exactly why. Why is it that this majority is 
taking these stances that harm Americans so much? I don't know an 
answer to that.

I would like to submit for the Record a summary of the report, the 
Charles River report. In that, Charles River is suggesting that we are 
going to lose jobs, almost $5 million from the energy policies that are 
being suggested right now by this Congress. We are going to lose 5 
million jobs. The average American household's purchasing power could 
drop by $1,700 by 2030. Aggregate business investment in the U.S. could 
drop by as much as $220 billion by 2030. Our gross domestic product 
could decline by more than $1 trillion by 2030. The costs of petroleum 
products could more than double by 2030. If you take a look at that 
report, you will see the damaging effects to your future, your 
children's future, and your grandchildren's future. The Charles River 
report is nationally respected and says: Please, please reconsider what 
you're doing in Congress, what the majority is doing in Congress right 
now to affect energy prices in the wrong way. We need lower costs of 
gasoline at the pump, lower costs of heating oil. We need policies 
which will implement those, not drive them up. We need them to be 
driven lower.

Mr. Speaker, I thank you for the time that you have yielded me 
tonight. I thank my friends from Utah (Mr. Bishop) and from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Murphy). This is a very important consideration that 
we are talking about tonight.


The Economic Impacts of Proposed Energy Legislation, Charles River 








Associates International, November 2007




 A report by a respected economic analysis firm examines the 


 economic impacts of seven major energy legislative provisions 


 being considered by Congress. If adopted, these provisions 


 would mandate that American families and businesses replace 


 proven energy sources such as oil and natural gas with 


 unproven high cost sources, likely leading to higher energy 


 costs. The study reveals the following:



 Almost 5 million jobs could be lost by the year 2030. The 


 impact would likely be felt even sooner, with an estimate of 


 more than 2 million jobs lost by the year 2020, and about 3.4 


 million jobs lost by the year 2025. These estimates take into 


 account jobs that would be created by the nearly five-fold 


 expansion of the biofuels mandate.



 The average American household's purchasing power could 


 drop by about $1,700 by 2030. Higher energy and non-energy 


 costs estimated in the study would likely mean that consumers 


 must spend a larger percentage of their income to maintain 


 their current level of consumption. This could force 


 Americans to make lifestyle changes, as significant 


 quantities of energy would be needed to produce and transport 


 many goods and services.



 Aggregate business investment in the U.S. could drop by as 


 much as $220 billion by 2030. Higher energy costs place 


 upward pressure on manufacturing costs, and businesses have 


 less capital to absorb the impact. As household and business 


 consumption fall, demand for goods and services weakens.



 Our national GDP could decline by more than $1 trillion by 


 2030, relative to the baseline. This estimated 4 percent 


 decline in GDP would be the result of energy supplies 


 declining and energy sources becoming more expensive. The 


 economy as a whole likely would suffer, but the impact would 


 resonate strongest in the following sectors: commercial 


 transportation, electric generation, motor vehicles, and 


 manufactured goods.



 Costs of petroleum products could more than double by 2030. 


 The impact would likely be felt sooner, with a roughly 44 


 percent cost increase by 2020. In addition to refined fuels 


 and home heating oil, this would likely impact the many 


 products that have oil or natural gas components, including 


 toothpaste, cell phones, infant seats, and pacemakers.
