# IRAQ
## `e4b572e85e308f0d6aea92fa17de26e9`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. This holiday season we wondered if President Bush 
wanted to be Scrooge to America and Santa Claus to Iraq. Over the last 
several months I have spoken many times about what the American 
presence in Iraq is costing at home. The true cost of the $455 billion 
we have spent on that war and the $10 billion per month we continue to 
spend might never be more clear than it is right now, at a time when 
Congress debated the budget for almost the entire Federal Government.

While we have been here crunching numbers, American families are 
feeling the crunch of a few numbers themselves: the interest rate on 
their mortgage that is about to jump beyond what they can afford, the 
price on the gas pump when they fill their tank, the price of heating 
oil and natural gas, higher grocery bills, fare hikes or threats of 
hikes on public transportation, and the skyrocketing costs of providing 
medical care for themselves and their children.

The President's consistent threats to veto funding for Federal 
Government operations forced across-the-board cuts to programs and 
services that so many Americans are counting on. This winter, as snow 
and ice fall on roads across America, people are waiting for better 
ways to travel. They are waiting for expanded, affordable public 
transportation, progress on efficiency, and new sources of fuel and 
power. They are waiting for our Nation to fill our energy portfolio 
with something other than the usual energy sources.


The omnibus spending bill the Senate approved this week would inject 
another $1.7 billion in the development of renewable sources of energy, 
such as solar, wind, and geothermal. It is an important step--but it 
could have been much greater.

Republicans have consistently objected to bigger steps. They said 
weaning us off fossil fuels is too expensive. Meanwhile, they have 
insisted that oil companies need more multimillion-dollar tax cuts. 
Meanwhile, we spend enough money to pay for that entire renewable 
energy package in Iraq in just 5 days--in just 5 days.