# None
## `e5306490e89a49d138c016cbc95c2062`
`Ms. STABENOW â€” 8 March 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, I rise today to support the Improving 
America Security Act of 2007, the legislation in front of us. It will 
put us on a path of more security for the future by implementing the 
unfinished recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. I commend all of 
those involved in this important effort.

As I came to speak on the floor in support of the legislation we have 
been working on for the last couple of weeks, I find myself needing to 
express great concern about the place in which we find ourselves at 
this point--unable to move forward with the final bill and the relevant 
9/11 Commission amendments that have been offered because of an effort 
by the Senate Republican leader to offer a wide-ranging number of 
unrelated amendments to this bill. So we find ourselves now stopped and 
waiting to figure out a way to resolve this effort.

The families who lost loved ones 5/1/2/ years ago have been waiting 
for the Congress to act. The 9/11 Commission report was released. After 
it was released, I assumed we would immediately take that document and 
begin to move forward aggressively because we all want safety for our 
families. We all live in America, and we are all concerned about 
vulnerabilities and risks and what we need to be able to do to keep our 
families safe and the country safe.

Unfortunately, things did not move under the former Congresses. We 
now find ourselves in a situation where, again, we are stalled because 
of a set of unrelated issues that have come up. I wish to share for the 
Record the deep concern of family members who lost loved ones on 9/11 
and who have written a letter to the distinguished Republican leader of 
the Senate. I think it expresses their grave concern about where we are 
right now. They are calling on us to move forward and act.

This reads:



 Dear Senator McConnell: As family members who lost loved 


 ones on 9/11, we support full implementation of the 9/11 


 Commission recommendations. We are writing out of grave 


 concern that your recent introduction of highly provocative, 


 irrelevant amendments will jeopardize the passage of S. 4. It




 is inconceivable that anyone in good conscience would 


 consider hindering implementation of the 9/11 Commission 


 recommendations, delaying much-needed homeland security 


 improvements. We strongly disagree with these divisive 


 procedural tactics.



 Just as the Iraq war deserves separate debate, so do each 


 of the amendments you offered. S. 4 should be a clean bill 


 and debate should conclude this week with a straight up and 


 down vote. Each day that passes without implementation of the 


 remaining 9/11 Commission recommendations, the safety and 


 security of our nation is at risk.



 Tactics such as those you are contemplating, which endanger 


 the 9/11 bill, send a signal to America that your priority is 


 partisan politics, not protecting America against terrorism. 


 Both parties must work together to pass this critical 


 legislation.



 We, the undersigned, understand all too well the risk of 


 failure to secure our nation.





 Respectfully,


 Carol Ashley,



 Mother of Janice, 25, Member, Voices of September 11th.


 Mary Fetchet,



 Mother of Brad, 24, Founding Director and President, Voices 


 of September 11th.


 Beverly Eckert,



 Widow of Sean Rooney, 50, Member, Families of September 11.


 Carie Lemack,



 Daughter of Judy Larocque, 50, Co-founder and President, 


 Families of September 11.


We know the job that needs to get done. I commend our Senate majority 
leader for making the wise determination, out of respect for these 
families, not to proceed with amendments relating to Iraq, which we all 
care deeply about. We want to have that debate on the policies and 
support for our troops and future direction as it relates to Iraq.

But the distinguished majority leader made the determination not to 
proceed on this bill because the families, the communities, and the 
country have waited too long for it to pass. So I think it is very 
unfortunate that we have had to get to this point, but it is very 
important that we pass a bill of tremendous significance.

I commend Chairman Lieberman and all of the members of the committee 
for their leadership. I commend particularly Senator Lieberman for his 
conviction to bring these issues to the Senate and for hanging in there 
and trying to get this done. The 9/11 Commission did a great service to 
our country by asking tough questions about the 9/11 attacks and then 
making recommendations to keep us safe in the future. The 9/11 
Commission not only gave a detailed explanation of how the attacks 
happened but also gave Congress and the administration detailed 
recommendations in how to fix our vulnerabilities and prevent future 
attacks. For that, we are grateful for their service.

In December 2005, a group led by former members of the 9/11 
Commission released a report card that overwhelmingly gave the 
administration and Congress failing grades for their poor 
implementation of the 9/11 Commission recommendations. This legislation 
is intended to change those failing grades to passing grades and to 
make us more secure.

The members of the commission gave the Government a D for improving 
checked bag and cargo screening. This bill requires all cargo and 
passenger aircraft to be screened and dedicates funding for the 
screening of checked baggage.

The Government also received Ds for creating incentives for 
information sharing and increasing Government-wide information sharing. 
This legislation makes several changes to information and intelligence 
sharing urged by the Commission. The bill establishes incentives for 
Government-wide information sharing and makes permanent the information 
sharing environment program, which will expire next month. The bill 
also creates the Interagency Threat Assessment and Coordination Group, 
which will facilitate the production and dissemination of Federal 
intelligence products to other Federal agencies and to State, local, 
and tribal governments.

The former Commissioners gave the Government another D for the lack 
of progress on intelligence oversight reform. However, the days of 
Congress giving President Bush a free pass are over, and this 
legislation increases Congress's oversight of the intelligence 
community and gives the intelligence community greater freedom to 
submit information to Congress, without approval by an executive branch 
officer.

One appalling lack of progress has been in the area of first 
responder communications interoperability. The 9/11 Commissioners gave 
the Government an F for failing to provide an adequate radio spectrum 
for first responders. This lack of progress is appalling to me because 
of the shortcomings the Commission identified in this area.

The 9/11 Commission report outlined the numerous communications 
problems first responders have had as they have tried to save lives. 
The report detailed the problem the police officers and firefighters in 
New York faced because they were on different radio systems. Over 50 
different public safety organizations from Maryland, Virginia, and the 
District of Columbia reported to the Pentagon to help, but they could 
not talk to each other.

The 9/11 Commission concluded that:




 The inability to communicate was a critical element at the 


 World Trade Center, Pentagon, and Somerset County, 


 Pennsylvania, crash site where multiple agencies and multiple 


 jurisdictions responded. The occurrence of this problem at 3 


 very different sites is strong evidence that compatible and 


 adequate communications among public safety organizations at 


 the local, State, and Federal levels remains an important 


 problem.


The 9/11 Commission published its final report in July 2004, but the 
men and women in the first responder community knew of the 
communications difficulties before 9/11.

Not long after 9/11, I traveled around Michigan and held a number of 
different townhall meetings. Over and over again, I heard the same 
thing from our police officers and firefighters, our emergency 
responders. In the 5 years since the September 11 attacks, one of the 
top requests for support I receive every year from the communities in 
Michigan is for interoperable communications equipment. Nearly every 
time I meet with police and firefighters and emergency medical 
personnel, they bring up this issue.

The 9/11 Commission is not alone in the assessment of this problem. 
In June of 2004, a U.S. Conference of Mayors survey found that 94 
percent of cities didn't have interoperable capabilities between police 
and firefighters and emergency workers; 60 percent of cities didn't 
have interoperable capability with the State emergency operation center 
in their State.

It has been over 5 years and we now are seeing this come forward in 
this important bill. I commend everybody involved in this legislation 
for putting in the first grant program for interoperability. This is a 
program that would be dedicated to improving communications between our 
first responders and would authorize $3.3 billion over the next 5 years 
to begin to get this right.

Our committee that has brought this forward has done an excellent job 
of presenting a package for us of which we can all be proud. It is a 
bipartisan effort. I hope we are going to see us move beyond this 
stalemate able to get the job done. The people of my State, and each of 
our States, are counting on us, and certainly the families who have 
suffered such a grave loss in the attacks on our country are counting 
on us to focus on the job in front of us and get it done.

I yield the floor.