# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `e541421ad8c410cfb5b82bff0cc8ee56`
`Mr. KING of Iowa â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I would start out with the title of 
this, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act. Positively Orwellian 
to name a resolution the Redeployment From Iraq Act. I have gone back 
and revisited George Orwell, and I can tell you this says, the Cut and 
Run From Iraq Act. And however you want to cut it, that's part of it.

Then it says, be moved in a safe and orderly manner. And I'd like to 
know from the other side, was the helicopter lifting people off of the 
U.S. Embassy in Saigon, was that safe and orderly? Would that comply 
with your definition?

Another point, we have in this Congress constitutional 
responsibilities and authorities with regard to war. The first thing we 
can do in this Congress is declare war. The second thing we can do is 
to raise an army and a navy, and the third thing is to fund it, not to 
micromanage it. This is another piece of micromanagement. This is 
another piece of moving us down the path towards what history will 
record as a defeat on the floor of Congress, not a defeat in the field 
of battle.

Von Clausewitz said the object of war is to destroy the enemy's will 
and ability to conduct war. And we understand that if you don't have 
the will, it doesn't matter what your ability is. We're the only 
unchallenged super power in the world, and you're breaking down the 
will of the American people.

Sun Tzu said it more simply. ''Supreme excellence in warfare lies in 
destruction of your enemy's will to resist an advance of perceptible 
hostilities.'' And yet the American people's will has been 
systematically undermined by the debate here on this floor, by the 
debate in the national news media. And I question, in the face of the 
opposition that we have to our will here in this country, if we ever 
can manage the effort to rise up and defend freedom with this kind of 
support that we lack.

And then, when Mr. Price of Georgia lays out that the Defeatocrats in 
Congress are invested in defeat, the former gentleman from California 
rose up and squealed. And being the leading number one pork-producing 
district in America, I can tell you, when you throw a rock into the 
pigpen, the ones that squeal are the ones you hit.