# None
## `e5a28a12091971dc2738abe6b44b0d4a`
`Mr. SANDERS â€” 16 September 2008`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, this week we have learned that Lehman 
Brothers, one of the oldest financial institutions in our country, an 
investment bank that has survived two world wars and a Great 
Depression, has proven that even it could not survive 8 long years of 
deregulation and lax oversight by the administration of George W. Bush. 
It is going bankrupt.

Yesterday we also learned that the beleaguered Merrill Lynch, the 
largest brokerage firm in this country, will be bought out by Bank of 
America, the largest financial depository institution in this country. 
Now we are also learning that AIG, the largest insurance company in the 
United States, and Washington Mutual, the largest savings and loan 
association in this country, are also in deep financial trouble. The 
list of troubled banks that the FDIC maintains is growing larger and 
larger.

In addition, last week, to avert a complete mortgage meltdown, we saw 
the Bush administration bail out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, putting 
tens, if not hundreds, of billions of dollars of taxpayer dollars at 
risk. Earlier this year, we saw the Federal Reserve orchestrate the 
takeover of Bear Stearns, a deal backed by $30 billion in taxpayer 
dollars.

At the same time, Americans are still paying outrageously high prices 
at the gas pump. Prices are still over $3.50 a gallon, even though the 
price of oil is now down to almost $90 a barrel. Every little hiccup to 
send gas prices up or down with virtually no connection to real supply 
and demand indicators.

Up to this point, the Republicans in the Senate have prevented us 
from taking any real action to rein in those volatile energy markets, 
so oil could be down this week, but any kind of rumor or instability, 
whether man made or natural, could send those same prices soaring 
again.

I think it is important the American people understand why we got to 
where we are today; why we are in a situation where millions of workers 
are fearful about being able to heat their homes in the wintertime 
while workers all over this country are finding it very difficult to 
fill their gas tanks. Is what occurred simply bad luck? Are we at the 
bottom of the so-called business cycle? How do these happenings occur 
to what was once the strongest economy in the world with the greatest 
middle class?

If we take a deep look at what is going on in terms of the financial 
crisis we are suffering through today and the volatile energy prices we 
are suffering through today, we can understand that both are the result 
of deliberate policy decisions made by the Congress and the 
administrative negligence on the part of the Bush administration. These 
deliberate policies were the result, to a significant degree, of the 
power and influence of corporate lobbyists--who also make huge campaign 
contributions--representing some of the most powerful special interests 
in the world, whether it is big oil, big coal or whether it is the 
largest financial institutions in the world.

What these lobbyists fought for and secured was selling deregulation 
snake oil, deregulation snake oil backed with millions in campaign 
contributions. That is what I think is the overlying issue as we look 
at the financial crisis facing Wall Street and the soaring and volatile 
prices in terms of oil.

All too often when bad things happen because of failures here in 
Washington, both parties generically blame it on the other and no one 
stands up and tries to point out what, where, why and, most 
importantly, who is behind these bad policies. As an Independent, I 
think that breeds a cynicism and an anger and a frustration on the part 
of the American people about the political system of our country.

Well, in this case, I think the American people deserve a little more 
of an explanation. It has been their hard-earned dollars that have been 
needlessly spent on $4 a gallon gasoline. It is their retirement 
savings and, my God, I wonder all over this country the kind of 
frustration that exists today with the volatility in the stock market 
going down 500 points yesterday and what people are worried about, 
whether their 401(k)s are going to be worth very much in the future. 
These are very frustrating times for the American people.

In the case of both of these current crises, the financial services 
and energy crisis, one of the major actors and perhaps the main actor 
in creating what we have seen today is a former Senator from Texas 
named Phil Gramm. In terms of our financial crisis, one of the reasons 
we are in the mess we are in today is because of the enactment of the 
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act in 1999. As you may recall, this legislation was 
responsible for deregulating the financial services industry by 
completely repealing the Glass-Steagall Act.

Now, I was a Member in the House of Representatives at the time. I 
was a member of the House Banking Committee when this legislation was 
being debated. I remember that debate very well because I was in the 
middle of it. Let me tell you, I do not mean to be patting myself on 
the back, but I think it is important to take a little bit of a look at 
recent history.

This is 1999 during the debate. This is what I said as a member of 
the House Banking Committee:




 I believe this legislation will do more harm than good. It 


 will lead to fewer banks and financial service providers, 


 increased charges and fees for individuals, consumers and 


 small businesses, diminished credit for rural America, and 


 taxpayer exposure to potential losses should a financial 


 conglomerate fail. It will lead to more mega mergers and a 


 small number of corporations dominating the financial service 


 industry and a further concentration of economic power in our 


 country.


Unfortunately, that is exactly what is happening today, and I would 
much prefer to have been wrong than right. But on the other hand, 
former Senator Phil Gramm--who I should mention to you has been Senator 
McCain's top economic adviser--at that time had a very different 
opinion of the legislation which bears his name. Senator Gramm at that 
time said something very interesting about that piece of legislation. 
This is what he said:




 Ultimately the final judge of the bill is history. 


 Ultimately, as you look at the bill, you have to ask 


 yourself, will people in the future be trying to repeal it? I 


 think the answer will be no.


Well, put me down as a Senator who believes we need to repeal Gramm-
Leach-Bliley. Put me down as a Senator who believes we need to restore 
strong Government oversight of the banking industry. Put me down as 
someone who believes we need to have firewalls in the financial 
services sector so that we do not have the domino effect we are seeing 
right now.

There was a reason Congress enacted reforms of the banking industry 
in the 1930s, and that was because we did not want to repeat the 
mistakes that caused the Great Depression. Failing to have learned from 
our mistakes, it looks as if we are doomed to repeat them.

The lesson here is that left to their own devices, company executives 
will make poor decisions and put their investors' capital at risk. The 
important lesson here is that poorly regulated financial markets 
invariably endanger the health of the entire economy and, of course, as 
this world becomes more and more interlocked, in fact, the economy of 
the entire world.

In that context, the extreme economic ideology of people such as


former Senator Gramm, and for that matter Senator McCain, says that the 
people of this country should simply stand back and allow executives in 
Wall Street boardrooms to make decisions with no public oversight that 
have the potential of wrecking our economy. In other words, deregulate 
them, let them do whatever they want in order to improve their bottom 
line, and the Government does not have to watch to see what the 
implications of their decisions are for our country or for our 
taxpayers.

I disagree with Senator Gramm's perspective. People who want to 
gamble their own money are certainly welcome to do that. But when your 
actions have the ability to dry up credit for businesses all over our 
country, when your actions can dry up mortgages for people who 
desperately want to buy a home or stay in their home, when your actions 
depress the value of Americans' savings, we need public oversight, and 
it should be strong oversight with the primary mission being to protect 
the American public from the reckless greed that has brought us to 
where we are today.

In former Senator Gramm's world view, when it comes to protecting the 
American consumer and the safety and soundness of our financial 
institutions, Government is not the answer, Government is the enemy, 
Government is terrible. But when banks fail, all of a sudden, guess 
what happens. The Government has no choice but to intervene to prevent 
the entire economy from collapsing. The Gramm-McCain version is one 
where profits are private, going to the very wealthiest people in this 
country, but risk is public, being assumed, by and large, by the 
middle-class and working people of this country. It is socialism for 
the very rich, and free enterprise for everyone else.

Unfortunately, former Senator Gramm was not satisfied by having set 
up the dominos in 1999 that made our current financial crisis possible. 
In 2000, he decided his loot-and-burn economics had to be applied to 
the energy markets as well now. This is an achievement. First you go 
after deregulating the financial markets, and then you move to energy. 
And out of his efforts in energy, of course, the so-called Enron 
loophole was born. Senator Gramm, who was then Chairman of the Banking 
Committee, was one, if not the main proponent of the provision 
deregulating the electronic energy market that we now know as the Enron 
loophole.

Was this done through a deliberative process with debate and 
hearings? Actually, no, it was not. This very important provision was 
slipped into a massive unrelated bill with no discussion and no 
hearings, and the American people today are paying the price for that.

The Federal agency that oversees those energy markets was the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the CFTC. Conveniently, the head 
of that agency at the time was a Wendy Gramm. Yes, you guessed it, it 
was his wife. And Wendy Gramm had become head of the CFTC after being 
on the board of directors of, well, you guessed it, the Enron 
Corporation. Even Hollywood could not come up with a plot quite so 
transparent.

The result of this deregulation of the energy markets has, according 
to many experts who have testified before Congress, allowed speculators 
on unregulated markets to artificially drive the cost of a barrel of 
oil up to over $147 a barrel.

My colleagues, including Senator Dorgan and Senator Cantwell and many 
others, have laid out the way that speculators have driven up oil 
prises in many well-researched presentations here on the floor and a 
number of Senate committees. I applaud them for their leadership. But 
all of this speculation and all of the millions and billions of dollars 
that Americans have spent on exorbitantly priced gasoline would not 
have happened if it had not been for the efforts of Senator Gramm 
pushing through the so-called Enron loophole.

As central as Senator Gramm was in creating the financing and energy 
disasters we are currently facing, he was aided and abetted by the Bush 
administration's willingness to simply look the other way. Even with 
all of the harm that has been done to the economy, President Bush still 
refuses to acknowledge it. One wonders what world he is living in.

And, shockingly, Senator McCain is singing from the same song sheet. 
On September 15, Senator McCain said:




 The fundamentals of our economy are strong.


Does that sound familiar? Well, it should. Since 2001, President Bush 
and members of his administration have repeatedly described the economy 
as strong and getting stronger: Thriving, robust, solid, booming, 
healthy, powerful, fantastic, exciting, amazing, the envy of the world.

Those are the adjectives used by the President and members of his 
administration over the last 8 years. What economy are they looking at? 
The fact is, when it comes to the economy, Senator McCain and President 
Bush do not get it. Is it a surprise to anyone that Senator Gramm, who, 
until fairly recently, was Senator McCain's major economic adviser on 
his campaign, described Americans as ''a nation of whiners'' who are 
suffering through a ''mental recession''?

Was it a surprise? What is surprising is that Senator McCain is 
trying to pass himself off as a maverick when he looks to the same 
people, people such as Senator Gramm, who laid the groundwork for our 
current economic problems.

While Senator McCain and President Bush think the fundamentals of our 
economy are strong, while they talk about how robust things are, the 
reality is the middle class in this country is collapsing. And if we do 
not make the kind of bold changes we need to make, for the first time 
in the modern history of America our children will have a lower 
standard of living than we do.

We are looking at the American dream as an American nightmare. We are 
moving in the wrong direction economically as well as in so many other 
areas.

Since President Bush has been in office, nearly 6 million Americans 
have slipped out of the middle class and into poverty. How do you think 
the fundamentals are strong when 6 million more Americans enter the 
ranks of the poor? Since Bush has been in office, over 7 million 
Americans have lost their health insurance. Now well over 46 million 
Americans are without any health insurance at all, and even more are 
underinsured. Does that sound like the fundamentals of the economy are 
strong?

Since President Bush has been in office, over 3 million manufacturing 
jobs have been lost, total consumer debt has more than doubled, median 
income for working-age Americans has gone down over $2,000 after 
adjusting for inflation. They do not get or do not care that prices on 
almost everything we consume are going up and up and up.

Today the typical American family is paying over $1,700 more on their 
mortgages, $2,100 more for gasoline, $1,500 more for childcare, $1,000 
more for a college education, $350 more on their health insurance, and 
$200 a year more for food than before President Bush was in office.

In addition, home foreclosures are the highest on record, turning the 
American dream of home ownership into the American nightmare. The 
unemployment rate has skyrocketed. Since January of this year, we have 
lost over 600,000 jobs. Adding insult to injury, the national debt has 
increased by over $3 trillion, and we are spending $10 billion a month 
on the war in Iraq, making it harder and harder to do anything to help 
the struggling middle class.

Is it any wonder that Rick Davis, Senator McCain's campaign manager, 
recently said: ''This election is not about issues''? If my economic 
policies were to follow President Bush's and the economy was in a state 
of near recession and unemployment was up and median family income went 
down and more people were losing health insurance and more and more 
people were in debt, the foreclosure rate at the highest rate in 
American history, if all those things were happening, I would certainly 
also run on a campaign not having anything to do with issues 
whatsoever. That is what I would do. I would run away from all of those 
issues. That is certainly John McCain's strategy. Who can blame him?

John McCain claims to be offering change. But on issue after issue, 
he is offering more of the same--more tax breaks for the very rich, 
more unfettered free-trade agreements that will


cost our country millions of good-paying manufacturing jobs, more tax 
breaks to big oil companies ripping off the American consumer at the 
gas pump; in other words, more of George Bush's failed policies that 
have led to a collapse of the middle class, an increase in poverty, and 
a wider gap between the very rich and everyone else.

John McCain and George Bush may be right in one respect: If they are 
talking about the wealthiest people and the most profitable 
corporations, the economy is fundamentally strong. Things could not be 
better for those people, that small segment of our society. In fact, 
one can make the case--and economists have--that the wealthiest people 
have not had it so good since the robber baron days of the 1920s.

Right now--this is really quite an astounding fact--the top one-tenth 
of 1 percent of income earners earn more income than the bottom 50 
percent. That gap between the people on top, who are busy trying to 
build recordbreaking yachts and all kinds of homes, busy buying jewelry 
that is unbelievably expensive--one-tenth of 1 percent earn more income 
than the bottom 50 percent--that gap is growing wider. Also the top 1 
percent own more wealth than the bottom 90 percent. We as a nation have 
the dubious distinction of having the most unfair distribution of 
wealth and income of any major country on Earth.

The wealthiest 400 people have not only seen their incomes double, 
their net worth has increased by $640 billion since President Bush has 
been in office. Can we believe that? The wealthiest 400 Americans have 
seen their net worth increase by $640 billion since George Bush has 
been in office. Today, the richest 400 Americans are now worth over 
$1.5 trillion. At the same time, we have the highest rate of childhood 
poverty; 20 percent of our children live in poverty. We have working 
families lining up at food banks because they don't earn enough to pay 
for food.

Apparently, all of that is not good enough for Senator McCain and for 
President Bush. They insist that those tax breaks be made permanent. In 
George Bush's and John McCain's world, those are the Americans who are 
struggling. The wealthiest 400 Americans just can't make it on $214 
million a year. It must be pretty hard to scrape through and get the 
food and shelter a family needs, so obviously those are the guys who 
need a tax break.

We have had almost 8 years of President Bush's economic policies. 
They follow, of course, 8 years of the policies of President Clinton. I 
think it is important to say a word to compare what happened during 
those two administrations.

I happened, as a Member of the House, to have disagreed with 
President Clinton on a number of issues. But I think when we look at 
his overall economic record and contrast it to the overall economic 
record of President Bush and the policies Senator McCain would like to 
follow, the record speaks for itself.

Take a look at job creation, how many new jobs have been created. 
Under President Clinton, almost 23 million new jobs were created. That 
is a pretty good record. Did every one of those jobs pay the kind of 
wages we would like? No. But nonetheless, almost 23 million new jobs 
were created in Clinton's 8-year term. Under President Bush, less than 
6 million jobs have been created.

Under President Clinton, more than 6 million Americans were lifted 
out of poverty and into the middle class. Under President Bush, the 
exact opposite has occurred. Nearly 6 million people who were in the 
middle class have been forced into poverty. Under President Clinton, 
median family income went up by nearly $6,000. That is a lot of money. 
Under President Bush, median family income is going down.

The Republican Party for years has told us they are the party of 
fiscal responsibility above all. Yet, under President Bush, the 
national debt has increased by more than $3 trillion. Under President 
Clinton, we had Federal surpluses as far as the eye could see. Under 
President Bush, we have had Federal deficits as far as the eye can see.

There is a clear choice to be made this year. That choice is, does 
Government work for all of the people, for the middle class, for 
working families, for people who are struggling, or do we continue to 
develop policies which represent the people on the top who, in fact, 
have never had it so good since the 1920s?

The future of our country is at stake. I personally believe we cannot 
afford 4 more years of President Bush's policies.

I yield the floor.