# WAR SUPPLEMENTAL IS BAD POLITICS, BAD POLICY
## `e6058197d0b0a521b4a6c4dc7d291734`
`Mr. CARTER â€” 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. Would the gentleman yield? I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.

Very good description of what we are looking at this week. And you 
are right; this may be one of the most critical votes that the people 
that hold these valuable seats that our people back home gave us are 
going to cast in their lifetime, because they are going to cast a life-
and-death vote here.

You know, as you mentioned, the troops and the 1st Infantry Division 
that you represent over there in Georgia, I am very blessed to 
represent the folks at Fort Hood, Texas. We are the only two division 
posts in the entire world, as I understand it, and I am very proud to 
represent the 4th Infantry Division and the 1st Cavalry Division and 
III Corps.

As we meet here tonight, the 1st Cavalry Division is in Baghdad, and 
General Odierno and III Corps are in command.



Now, I have my soldiers from the 1st Cavalry Division, and I call 
them mine because I care about every single solitary one of those 
soldiers as they serve our country. I have them in harm's way tonight 
as we stand here, with great generals who know what they are doing, 
know their mission, and are ready to accomplish it.

I don't think the American people have really understood what General 
Petraeus is trying to do with what some are calling a surge, but more 
familiar to our soldiers is a call for more boots on the ground; or as 
Jack said, for somebody to take your back.

But the real issue here is what is the plan for victory that General 
Petraeus has painted for us. Well, the plan is to involve Iraq in their 
own defense. The plan is for one battalion of American soldiers to back 
up a brigade of Iraqi soldiers as they go in and execute a new policy 
in the neighborhoods of terror in Baghdad. The Army will be backing up 
a brigade with a battalion. There are five battalions in a brigade. So 
that means it is a 5 to 1 ratio is the plan for the Iraqis to be in the 
fight versus the Americans. The Americans will provide all of the great 
resources, all of the know-how, all of the skill, all of the training, 
all the can-do that our American forces provide to the fight. But the 
Iraqis will go in and they will take care of cleaning out the 
neighborhoods in Baghdad. They speak the language. They know the 
culture and the religion. They know the various groups. They can do 
this in a much more effective way, with the support of General 
Petraeus' troops. And he has told us that he needs the additional boots 
on the ground to make this plan work.

Now, I think the American people are a people that believe in 
winning. You know, I sit around this House in our off time, and what 
are we talking about, who is going to win the next basketball game 
competition that is going on in this country? And we are talking about 
who is going to win, not who is going to lose.

When it is football season, we are looking for a winning season. When 
we have a baseball team, we want them to have a winning year and to win 
the pennant. We are a Nation that likes winners. We have the most 
effective fighting force in the history of man on the ground today, and 
they can win. And they are telling us we have a plan.

One of the problems that we have run into in Baghdad, and I have 
learned this by visiting with these generals. I visited just recently 
with the general who brought the 4th Infantry Division back, and they 
are ready and training to deploy again next fall for their third or 
fourth deployment.

What was said was we have demonstrated we can clear out an area like 
Sadr City, for instance. The 1st Cavalry Division went in 2 years ago 
and cleaned out Sadr City, redesigned the sewer system, got the 
electricity system working slightly, got the garbage that had been in 
the streets for years under Saddam Hussein cleaned out, and they did 
this under fire. And they also killed or captured the bad guys that 
they found, and ran the rest of them out of Sadr City. But they didn't 
have the resources to hold Sadr City.

This plan is to clear, hold, and rehabilitate. That's the plan that 
General Petraeus talked to the Senate about. That's the plan he has, as 
I understand it.



And the Iraqis will set up like stations in the various neighborhoods 
to do the clear with our help; they will do the hold with our help; and 
then teams will come in from the Army and the Marine Corps and like 
from the State Department to do the rehabilitation of the area and give 
them services they practically haven't had under Saddam Hussein, and 
some have never had in their lifetime.

This is a plan that I think we owe to our soldiers and their 
sacrifice, to give them a chance to get done. I am heartsick that we 
have a plan that is supposed to be funding these troops to get this job 
done that is coming to the floor of the House, and it has provisions in 
that plan which it looks like to me are saying we don't think you can 
succeed. Therefore, we are setting up kind of a track to get you out 
because by a vote for the bill in its present state, we are saying to 
our soldiers overseas, we don't think you can get the job done and so 
here is how we are going to get you out, and here is the drop-dead 
date, August of next year, when you are getting out, like it or not.

You mentioned General Pelosi micromanaging. I have real problems with 
this bill, and I hope every Member of Congress will look at this bill 
and look at it in terms of human beings, i.e. our soldiers. It has a 
provision, and it has a provision which says no unit can go to the 
fight unless they are certified by someone, that they are fully 
trained, fully equipped before they are allowed to go. And if they 
cannot meet that certification on their demarcation date they will be 
by this bill defunded because they are not certified to go to the 
fight.

Meanwhile, there are troops in Iraq who are expecting to have a 
replacement coming in. They have been there for a year. But what does 
this bill say about those troops in Iraq? In this case, the 1st Cavalry 
Division from Fort Hood, Texas, next fall under this bill, once they 
reach 365 days in theater, this bill defunds those soldiers.

Now, if we fail to certify their replacements and we have defunded 
the soldiers and now you have a 1st Cavalry Division soldier who is 
short on gasoline and ammunition in the war, is that where we want that 
soldier to be? Is that caring for the American troops? And all of this 
is being managed from here, not from the generals that are in the 
fight?

I think it is a tragedy that we would even consider doing something 
like this, thinking we as a body have the military knowledge, superior 
to the people we just, by the example you gave, by a unanimous vote of 
the Senate hired a man to do the job.