# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e70682f013d013c70fc720391a9a95d6`
`Mr. MARCHANT â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. MARCHANT. Madam Speaker, I stand before you today, offering a 
candid reflection of the tasks before us. As someone entrusted to be a 
leader in this great nation, I find myself humbled by the decisions we 
make and the traditions of this institution. In times of hardship, 
America has often looked to the House of Representatives, the 
''people's house,'' as a place for deliberation and decision. Many 
great leaders have preceded our place in this Chamber, and many more 
will undoubtedly follow. By design we find ourselves here again today, 
in the footprints of those who stood so firm against the winds of 
adversity. It was in this very room that President Franklin Roosevelt 
so famously addressed the Nation after the tragic events surrounding 
Pearl Harbor had unfolded; and Members of Congress were faced with the 
daunting effort of placing our nation in a second world war.

America was forged long ago as a beacon of democracy, shining bright 
onto the shores of the world. Ever since our bold proclamation to 
others that we would shelter ''your tired, your poor, your huddled 
masses yearning to breath free,'' we have called on this body to answer 
the question: How tired, how poor, how yearning must the oppressed be 
to warrant our assistance? And so we find ourselves here today, paused 
at an intersection on the road of democracy. Will we turn back and 
embolden those that oppress the free and murder


the innocent? After careful consideration, I must vote against this 
resolution and choose instead to follow the path blazed by those who 
pledged our commitment to freedom.

On September 11, we were forced to witness the consequences of a 
decade of inaction against a determined enemy. Osama bin Laden and 
other radical Islamists, have declared war on every American, for no 
other reason than we practice freedom and democracy. Beginning in the 
1970s, radical Islamists began targeting America with a steady campaign 
of terror. Although the images of that tragic September day remain 
seared in our minds, it forced us to awaken from our long period of 
denial and realize the true determination of our enemy. The war in 
Afghanistan and subsequent invasion of Iraq have discouraged any major 
terrorist attack from occurring on our soil in the last 5 years. Our 
enemy is patient, calculating, and determined. However, by supporting 
Iraq's efforts to become a free and Democratic society, we have forced 
the terrorists to focus their resources in the Middle East and away 
from American soil.

The only impact this resolution will have: is embolden our enemy and 
convince them of our weakness. The overall commanding officer in Iraq, 
General David Petraeus, recently agreed that a resolution such as this 
would only ''give the enemy some encouragement.'' Although I will 
continue to be an advocate of free speech, we must remain aware of our 
speech's impact. One can only imagine the result here at home if we 
formalize a resolution of no confidence in this body.

As a member of this body, I have made clear my support for the war in 
Iraq and our fighting men and women. I stand behind our military and 
appreciate the importance of our mission, but am also aware that some 
mistakes have been made along the way. War is unpredictable and we can 
do no better than by putting our armed forces in the capable hands of 
our military leaders. We owe it to the generations of Iraqi's murdered 
under the reign of Saddam, and our brave country men and women who have 
paid the ultimate sacrifice, to move forward with our mission.

The decision to commit our military to harm's way, is the toughest 
made of any leader. Some of my colleagues in Congress will argue that 
we cannot afford to vote in approval of the job our military men and 
women have done in Iraq. After looking at the facts, I say we can't 
afford not to. This non-binding resolution being offered by Democrats, 
is little more than a political sound bite. Although I have respect for 
many of my colleagues across the aisle, I urge them to consider the 
negative effect this resolution will have.

It should be clear to all that have listened to this debate, that 
this resolution is the first step by the majority party in their quest 
to cut off funding for our troops in Iraq. This is not fair to our 
soldiers on the ground and it dishonors the fallen and injured heroes 
that have so bravely served this Nation.