# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e710f136f0dd2cacfc688e82d96b5fed`
`Mr. DOYLE â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. DOYLE. Thank you.

Mr. Speaker, as someone who has opposed this misguided version from 
the war on terror from the very beginning, I believe it is way past 
time for our country to take stock of where we have been, where we are, 
and where we are going in Iraq. I think it is important to remember how 
we got there.

President Bush told Congress and the American people that Saddam had 
weapons of mass destruction and was an imminent threat to the United 
States; that Saddam had ties to al Qaeda and the 9/11 attackers; that 
the invasion, occupation, and reconstruction would cost us nothing; 
that Iraqi oil revenues would cover all the costs.

So where are we today? We know that Saddam had no weapons of mass 
destruction and that he posed no imminent threat to the United States. 
We know Saddam had no operational relationship with al Qaeda. Eighty 
percent of the Iraqi people want us to leave their country. The 
invasion, occupation, and reconstruction of Iraq will cost us at least 
half a trillion dollars, not to mention the cost in human lives and 
international goodwill.

More than 3,000 American soldiers are dead, more than 20,000 American 
soldiers are wounded. The burden of the Iraq war is being borne 
exclusively by our children and grandchildren who will bear the debt, 
and the families of our military personnel, who, at best, experience 
long separations and terrible worry, and, at worst, lose a beloved 
family member forever.

The invasion and occupation of Iraq has alienated our allies, has 
called our credibility into question around the world. It has soured 
Middle Eastern attitudes about the United States and Western democracy. 
Finally, the invasion of Iraq got us into a long-term bloody occupation 
of a country with no significant connection to the war on terror and 
diverted critical military and intelligence resources from the fight 
against al Qaeda.

The recently released National Intelligence Estimate concluded that 
there is little prospect for political reconciliation in Iraq at this 
time. So, what


should the United States do? What does victory in Iraq mean at this 
point? Most of us would see victory as any kind of political settlement 
that ended the violence, but the American people need to hear the 
truth, and the truth is, there is no happy ending for Iraq as long as 
our presence allows the Maliki government to avoid making the political 
compromises necessary for peace in Iraq.

Now, the President has proposed a significant increase in the numbers 
of U.S. troops serving in Iraq. I believe that Congress should oppose 
this escalation. I don't believe it has any real chance of producing a 
political solution in the war in Iraq or even curbing the violence in 
Baghdad.

I am not alone in this belief.

General Colin Powell, General George Casey, General John Abizaid, 
General Joseph Hoar, General Barry McCaffrey, Major General Don 
Sheppard and General James Conway all question this escalation.

Now, many supporters of the President's Iraq policy ask what those of 
us who oppose this military escalation would support instead. This 
Member of Congress believes that the United States should begin an 
immediate orderly redeployment of our troops out of Iraq with the goal 
of completing that redeployment by the end of the year.

We should lead and enlist the participation of all neighboring 
countries in a massive diplomatic surge to help contain the civil war 
already underway, and that diplomatic surge should include all the 
countries in the region, including Iran and Syria. The only way to 
bring stability to that region is through a regional effort.

Our troops have performed with courage, compassion, and 
professionalism. They did everything that was asked of them. Their work 
in Iraq is done. We gave the Iraqis their freedom. It is up to them to 
decide what they will do with it.

It is time for the Iraqis to take responsibility for their own 
security. It is time for Iraqis to decide if Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds 
wish to share resources, share power, and coexist peacefully as one 
country.

America cannot force them to do this, no matter how long we stay 
there. Only the Iraqi people can decide this.

Mr. Speaker, it is time. The American people have known for quite a 
while it is time, and I believe this week that finally the United 
States Congress will take the first step to bringing our troops home by 
adopting this resolution