# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `e7174841ecf1f4e4e3899aaa20e13fd4`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 9 May 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, traumatic brain injury is the signature 
injury of the Iraq war. The widespread use of Improvised Explosive 
Devices, IEDs, has taken a terrible toll. Even those who have walked 
off the battlefield without visible scars often find they have suffered 
the internal trauma of a traumatic brain injury.

Today, I am introducing legislation, along with Senators Warner, 
Murray, Graham, Obama, Webb, and Cantwell, to create a Traumatic Brain 
Injury Program, operated jointly by the Department of Defense and the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, to ensure that those servicemembers who 
suffer a brain injury receive all the services they need. The 
legislation establishes a standard of care for each individual found to 
have suffered a brain injury, improves the coordination of care, 
strengthen the rights of brain injury patients, and expands brain 
injury research in the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs.

This legislation will reduce the number of our wounded soldiers who 
fall through the cracks and are left to fend for themselves as they 
struggle to recover from a traumatic brain injury. I am pleased to have 
the support of Veterans for America for this legislative effort.

We have made tremendous progress in battlefield medical care. During 
Vietnam, one in three servicemembers who were injured died. In Iraq and 
Afghanistan, 1 in 16 who are injured die. But with the changes in 
warfare and in medical technology, more of our servicemembers are 
coming home with serious brain injuries from Iraq and Afghanistan than 
from any other recent conflicts we've known.

For some of these wounded warriors, the greatest battle comes at home 
when they seek care. Many of these returning troops need long-term 
treatment and rehabilitation long after their discharge from active 
duty, as they fight to overcome the severe disabilities that a 
traumatic brain injury can cause.

For others, there is a different story. Some servicemembers don't 
even realize they suffered a traumatic brain injury until long after 
their discharge, because we don't do a very good job of identifying and 
treating those who may have suffered a brain injury.

Fortunately, many of those who suffer a brain injury are able to 
recover fairly quickly. But for some, the experience is life-altering, 
even life-shattering. We must not fail them in their time of need.

Consider the case of Sgt. Eric Edmundson. Eric left my home state of 
Illinois to serve in Iraq. In October 2005, he suffered a severe head 
concussion when a roadside bomb exploded near him. He was cared for at 
Walter Reed Hospital, then was transferred to a VA facility where he 
and his family felt he was not receiving the kind of treatment that 
would allow him to continue to make progress in rehabilitation.

He would have been stuck there if the family had not found a creative 
way to obtain the care he needed. The family found a way to ensure that 
Eric could receive treatment and rehabilitation at one of the premiere 
rehabilitation hospitals in the nation: the Rehabilitation Institute of 
Chicago. He is making great progress there and hopes to walk out of the 
hospital some day soon.

We need to use private hospitals more. In fact, we should use them 
whenever they are the best option for our returning soldiers who are 
wounded. In the case of traumatic brain injury, they often have the 
special expertise needed, because the leading facilities in this field 
deal with brain injuries day in and day out as a result of construction 
accidents and car crashes.

Now consider the case of Sgt. Garrett Anderson of Champaign, 
Illinois. Garrett went to Iraq with the Illinois National Guard. After 
4 months there, an IED exploded next to his armored Humvee in Baghdad. 
The blast tore off his right arm below the elbow, shattered his jaw, 
severed part of his tongue, damaged his hearing, and punctured his body 
with shrapnel.

He spent 7 months at Walter Reed, where he received excellent care in 
Ward 57, the famous amputee ward. However, the outpatient care that 
followed has been filled with paperwork and red tape. It was months 
before the VA recognized that Garrett had suffered a traumatic brain 
injury. He has not received the kind of treatment for brain injury that 
could make a significant difference in the trajectory of his 
rehabilitation.

We need to change the way we handle patients with traumatic brain 
injury, so that they receive the care they need at the time they need 
it.

The legislation I am introducing takes a comprehensive approach to 
dealing with the traumatic brain injuries that plague our troops and 
veterans.

First, this legislation would establish a Traumatic Brain Injury 
Program, run by DOD and the VA, to provide treatment and rehabilitation 
to servicemembers and veterans who have suffered a service-connected 
traumatic brain injury.

Second, this bill would establish a standard of care for the 
participants in the TBI Program. Specifically, each individual in the 
program shall be provided ''the highest quality of care possible based 
on the medical judgment of qualified medical professionals in 
facilities that most appropriately meet the specific needs of the 
individual. ''And they shall be rehabilitated to the fullest extent 
possible using the most up-to-date medical technology, medical 
rehabilitation practices, and medical expertise available.''



That's the standard of care we should provide to these injured troops 
who gave so much of themselves for us. They should receive the best we 
have to give.

Third, the measure would direct the Defense Department to develop and 
administer a standardized cognitive pre-test, which would be 
administered to all military personnel prior to deployment and again 
upon return from deployment to determine if they have suffered a brain 
injury.

It also would require DOD and the VA to refer any servicemember or 
veteran for TBI screening if it is found, in the course of later 
treatment or contacts, that the servicemember or veteran may have 
suffered a service-connected brain injury.

Anyone found to have suffered a traumatic brain injury would be 
enrolled in the TBI program and receive the care they need.

One of the things the families of TBI patients complain most about is 
the confusion that surrounds their efforts to ensure that their loved 
one received all needed care. The fourth thing this measure would do is 
to direct DOD and the VA to assign each patient a lead case manager to 
ease the stress on the patient and family, facilitate navigation 
through the DOD and VA systems, ensure proper care, present options for 
care outside of DOD and the VA, and ensure consistent guidance. 
Additionally, DOD and the VA would assign to each patient a lead 
primary care physician to coordinate and oversee the care provided to 
the patient, including all treatment, rehabilitation, and medications.

Another complaint of families and TBI patients is that they are 
sometimes blocked from receiving the care they need due to their status 
as either a veteran or an active duty member. DOD and the VA have 
different health benefit options. In some cases, servicemembers have 
found that, because they accepted a discharge, they lost access to 
benefits that would help them.

Our bill addresses this problem by establishing, for these TBI 
patients, a temporary overlap of benefits. The participants in the TBI 
Program will be allowed, for 2 years, to receive any of the benefits 
available to veterans and to active duty members, regardless of their 
active duty status. This will help ensure they receive the best care 
and rehabilitation available, wherever it may be.

Our bill would spell out some other rights that are important for the 
rehabilitation of TBI patients. First, DOD and the VA would be required 
to provide a referral to a medical professional outside of DOD and the 
VA when requested by a TBI patient. This will allow patients to 
determine whether there is better care in the private sector that is 
not being provided to that patient. They would also have a right to an 
appeals process to challenge any failure to provide the standard of 
care required in the TBI Program.

In some cases, undiagnosed traumatic brain injuries may contribute to 
behavior resulting in other than honorable discharges. Upon the request 
of a servicemember who served since 2001 and was discharged under other 
than honorable conditions, the DOD would be directed to review the 
discharge to determine whether a brain injury might be the root cause 
of the actions that precipitated the adverse discharge, with fair 
reconsideration of the discharge if such evidence is found.

Similarly, the VA would be required to make available, upon request, 
an appeals process to update the disability rating of a veteran who is 
found to have suffered a traumatic brain injury.

Finally, this measure authorizes additional funding for research 
related to traumatic brain injury both in DOD and in the VA, to improve 
screening, diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation for traumatic brain 
injury.

This is a comprehensive effort to improve the treatment of our 
Nation's wounded servicemembers who have suffered a traumatic brain 
injury. I can't imagine the anguish that must be associated with such 
an injury, but I can imagine the kind of medical system I would like to 
have in place if it were my son or daughter struggling to recover from 
such an injury. This legislation reflects that vision.

I thank my cosponsors, Senators Warner, Murray, Graham, Obama, Webb, 
and Cantwell, and I urge all of my colleagues to support this measure.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.