# None
## `e8524d7826f2d4194b6d9d3523b68991`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I rise in support of S. 2633 offered by 
Senator Feingold.

I think it is unfortunate the Republican leadership has once again 
put the Senate into a stall. It seems as if the Republicans feel that 
it takes them 30 hours to make up their mind to do anything. They want 
to burn off 30 hours of Senate time. I don't know why. What Senator 
Reid offered them was a chance to move to this resolution, to debate 
it, and if amendments are going to be offered, they would be offered. 
They turned it down. They want to wait 30 hours before we even possibly 
reach that point. As Senator Reid explained it, there may be an 
intervening motion that slows us down there. But that is what this is 
all about. This is the Republicans' slow boat for America. They want to 
slow everything down to a snail's pace, and it is unfortunate that they 
do.

They know what we want to do. We want to have a good, open debate on 
the policy on the war in Iraq, followed this week by emergency 
legislation to deal with the housing crisis in America. So their 
strategy is to avoid that debate on Iraq, a debate that leads to the 
actual bill, tie us up in procedural issues, and hope we don't get to 
the housing crisis by the end of the week. I guess at the end of the 
week the Republicans will say: Job well done. The Senate went home and 
didn't do anything for another week. Well, I guess that is what they 
think the minority is all about, to stop anything from happening. Isn't 
it unfortunate.

If you listen to Presidential campaigning on both sides, Republicans 
and Democrats talking about change, they point an accusing finger at 
us, saying that time and again, Senators and Congressmen dream up ways 
to avoid facing the important issues in America. Well, it is time for 
us to face those issues in a timely way, to give ample opportunity to 
minority and majority, to debate, to amend, to move forward. Yet the 
Republicans, as they did last year, are doing everything this year 
again to obstruct, to stall, and to stop.

Why is this important? The minority leader, Senator McConnell of 
Kentucky, was complaining that we have had 35 votes on the war in Iraq. 
He is war weary of voting on Iraq. Well, I want to say to him I am war 
weary as well. I am weary of 3,972 U.S. service men and women killed in 
Iraq. I am weary of 29,000 injured, many seriously, and with permanent 
conditions they will struggle with for a lifetime. I am weary of a war 
this President won't pay for, that costs us $10 billion to $15 billion 
a month. I am weary of the excuses we have made for the Iraqis who have 
failed to lead their own Nation while we risk and give American lives 
in this conflict. I am weary of the missed opportunities in America 
that $1 trillion spent on this war could have bought us to make our 
Nation stronger at home--better schools, making certain our teachers 
are compensated for good work, the technology we need so our children 
can be successful in this 21st century, medical research funds that 
have been cut under this administration, funds for extending health 
care and insurance for families across America, putting infrastructure 
in place in America so our economy can grow and move forward with good 
American jobs building those roads and highways and airports and mass 
transit. I am weary of that too.


No apologies for the Senator from Kentucky for 35 votes on Iraq. That 
is hardly 1 vote for every 100 Americans who have been killed in that 
country. It certainly is worth our time to debate this. Even more 
important, it is worth our time to change this policy in Iraq.

I salute Senator Feingold. He has been a lone voice. There were times 
I didn't agree with him. I thought he had an approach for this that we 
weren't ready for. But over time, I have come to understand his wisdom 
and his insight, and his political courage to bring this issue to the 
floor. If he didn't fight doggedly to make sure we didn't have this 
Iraq war debate, we would skate along perhaps month after month without 
ever facing the music. What we face is a reality.

The Republican plan is to stall and wait 11 months until President 
George W. Bush, on January 20, 2009, can leave the White House, give a 
fond adieu to Washington, DC, and say: Well, I left the war; now it is 
up to the others to try to solve this. Well, it is going to take quite 
a bit to try to undo the worst foreign policy decision in modern memory 
in America.

Many of us remember that night in October of 2002 when here in the 
Senate Chamber we voted on authorizing this President to go to war. I 
was a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee then. I listened 
behind closed doors to classified and confidential information, and I 
couldn't put it together. I couldn't square with the information we 
received in the Intelligence Committee all of the dire predictions 
being made by President Bush, Vice President Cheney, Condoleezza Rice, 
and Donald Rumsfeld. It didn't square away.



Where in the world were the threats they were talking about--the 
weapons of mass destruction, the nuclear weapons, the connections with 
9/11? It turned out none of them existed--not one. We found no weapons 
of mass destruction. We found no nuclear weapons. We found no 
connection between Saddam Hussein and the terrible tragedy of 9/11. All 
of the pretenses and reasons given by this President to engage us in 
this war, to risk American lives, and to drag us on for more than 5 
years in this conflict turned out to be false; all of it.

There is no greater deception in a democracy than for the leader to 
mislead the people of a nation into a war, to ask families to offer 
their children and their children's lives in service to this country 
for reasons that turn out not to be true. No weapons of mass 
destruction, no nuclear weapons, no connection with 9/11, and here we 
are, still bogged down, mired in this conflict.

It is cold comfort to know that as we sent 20,000 or 30,000 more 
soldiers into Iraq last year that things got better. I am glad they 
did. I have been there since then. I am glad the surge brought some 
peace to some sections of Iraq. But that wasn't the reason for the 
surge. The surge was put in place so the Iraqis could finally take 
responsibility for their own country, so they could make hard political 
decisions and govern and lead and defend themselves. Here we are, 
almost a year later, and what do we have to show for it? An Iraqi 
Parliament that when we can get them to meet won't even face the 
serious issues. Time and again they fail to make the decisions they 
need to make so their Government can govern. Time and again we find 
excuses from them: They need a little more time. Every day they need is 
at the expense of American soldiers. Every month they take to finally 
reach a decision means that more body bags will come home to America 
and more wounded soldiers will return. So as they take their sweet time 
making their decisions, we are paying a heavy price as a Nation. And 
the complaint from the other side is we have had 35 votes on this; 
haven't we had enough? No, we haven't had enough until we change this 
policy, until we start bringing the troops home.

You are going to hear a lot of things said about this Feingold 
resolution. I certainly hope that colleagues and Members will take the 
time to read it. Here is what it says: It says our future role in Iraq 
is going to be limited. We are not going to say to the military: Do 
whatever you like. We are going to say to our military in Iraq: Here is 
your role. This is what you can do. This is what we will provide funds 
for.

First: Conduct targeted operations, limited in duration and scope, 
against members of al-Qaida and affiliated terrorist organizations.

That is certainly something we all agree on. Al-Qaida was behind 9/
11, not Saddam Hussein, and we should continue to target them. They 
have used Iraq as a land of opportunity now to go in and sow their 
seeds of division and hatred, to try to kill innocent people and to 
kill American soldiers. Senator Feingold says we will continue to fight 
to eliminate al-Qaida in Iraq.

Second: Provide security for personnel and infrastructure of the U.S. 
Government.

That should never be in question. We should make certain our Armed 
Forces are always there to protect our people and to protect important 
installations.

Third: Provide training to members of the Iraqi security forces who 
have not been involved in sectarian violence or in attacks upon the 
U.S. Armed Forces.

If the Iraqis are ever going to take over defense of their own 
country so that we are not in Iraq for 50 years or 100 years or even 
1,000 years, as one of the Presidential candidates has said--if we are 
ever going to avoid that terrible outcome, the Iraqis have to stand and 
fight and defend their own country. Senator Feingold says that is one 
of the legitimate reasons we can stay in Iraq. I agree with him.

Fourth: To provide training, equipment, and other materials to 
members of the U.S. Armed Forces to ensure, maintain, or improve their 
safety and security.

No argument there.

And finally: The resources to redeploy members of the U.S. Armed 
Forces from Iraq.

What is missing from this? What is missing is any unilateral combat 
operation that opens a new part of this war. For 5 years we have given 
the Iraqi people all they could ever ask for. We deposed their 
dictator, we brought the best military in the world to their country, 
we gave them a chance to elect their own Government, write their own 
Constitution, and govern and defend themselves. What more could they 
ask for? We have paid for it mightily, with almost 4,000 lives, the 
hundreds of thousands who have served, and the thousands who have come 
home wounded, injured.

I will tell you, for those who think we ought to look the other way 
for 11 months so President Bush can get out of town, they ought to go 
to these National Guard deployments and redeployments and look into the 
eyes of our guardsmen and their families, their tear-filled eyes as 
they send their soldiers off for yet another deployment.

We have a young man here on the Capitol Police force who works with 
my office. He is about to face his second deployment with the Navy 
Reserve. He is taking it very well, with a smile, but he is going to be 
gone for 8 months--8 months away from his family, making less money 
serving with the Navy than he makes serving as a Capitol policeman--
taking a pay cut because the Federal Government is too cheap to provide 
what private corporations do for their activated employees--and he will 
be away from his family for another 8 months.

Easy for us to say: Well, it is only 11 months. There will be a new 
President. Maybe there will be a change. But what about those soldiers 
and sailors and marines, airmen, all of our military who are called to 
serve? That 11 months will be a lifetime away from their families, and 
during that 11 months some of them will give their lives. That is why 
this debate is important and why it is timely and why I am glad Senator 
Feingold has brought it before us.

It is unfortunate the Republican side wants to stall this debate, 
stall it for 30 hours in hopes we can drag everything out so we will 
never quite get to the issue here on Iraq and maybe never get to the 
issue of the housing crisis in America. That is the Grand Old Party's 
brandnew strategy: Stall, try to delay, find ways to make sure we don't 
get to the important issues. It is little wonder that the opinion of 
the American people of this Congress is low.

What we should do is look to the positive side. If we change this 
policy in Iraq, if we tell the President on a bipartisan basis that we 
have had enough of this, that we want to see a change in mission, we 
have a chance to change this country. We can take the resources that 
would have been spent in Iraq and spend them in America. We can make 
sure we are providing health care, job training, and building schools, 
roads and bridges. We can create an economic stimulus in the United 
States instead of an economic stimulus in Iraq. I think a strong 
America begins at home. Wouldn't it be great if we invested our 
precious tax revenues in that belief?

Let me tell you what the National Intelligence Estimate said about 
the state of this war in Iraq. Last year, they gravely noted that:




 The Iraq conflict has become the cause celebre for 


 jihadists, breeding a deep resentment of U.S. involvement in 


 the Muslim world, and cultivating supporters for the global 


 jihadist movement.


That is a quote from the National Intelligence Estimate. What it says 
is that as we battle on in Iraq and lose American lives and spend 
American dollars, we are creating a magnet for the extremists around 
the world to come and kill our troops and to be inspired in their own 
sad and devilish ways to kill other innocent people around the world. 
Did anyone bargain for that when we invaded Iraq? Did anyone think it 
would make the war on terror more difficult to win? That is what the 
National Intelligence Estimate tells us.

This administration has recklessly diverted critical military 
intelligence and civilian assets from Afghanistan in the process. That 
was a war I voted for, without reservation--a unanimous vote in the 
Senate, just days after the attack on 9/11. We knew where that attack 
came from. It didn't come from Saddam Hussein and Iraq, it came from 
Osama bin Laden and the Taliban, and the al-Qaida forces that were 
running


rampant through Afghanistan. Well, the situation in Afghanistan has 
deteriorated because we have spent so much on human life and American 
dollars on Iraq. That is the reality of this administration's 
priorities.

The Taliban and al-Qaida, sadly, are regrouping in Afghanistan, and 
we know for sure Pakistan, the neighboring country, is increasingly 
unstable. In fact, the strongest military on Earth is apparently so 
overstretched at this moment, the administration can't even find a 
handful of transport helicopters to help the desperately needed people 
of Darfur with the U.N. peacekeeping force.

How long will we stand by this failed foreign policy, this disaster 
in Iraq, at such a high cost in human lives, dollars, reputation, and 
national security? We are hearing once again that we are seeing 
progress in Iraq. How many times have we heard this story? At least for 
5 years--from the beginning, from Vice President Cheney's rosy scenario 
of the troops being greeted with parades and arms laden with flowers to 
welcome them to Iraq, something that unfortunately did not occur--until 
the present time, when the so-called surge has turned everything 
around. And yet 150,000 American lives are still at risk this morning, 
this afternoon, and this evening in Iraq.

The entire point of the surge was to carve out political space for 
the Iraqi political leadership. They haven't used the time; they 
haven't used the surge for that to happen. Does anyone honestly believe 
we are closer to the day that the Iraqis will take responsibility for 
their own future? They will if this passes, because they will know our 
days are numbered in Iraq. We are not going to be there for 25, 50, or 
1,000 years. That is not fair to our soldiers; it is not fair to 
America.

This administration has no strategy beyond ''stay the course'' until 
January 20, 2009. We in Congress have a responsibility to change 
direction. Our responsibility is for those soldiers and their families, 
it is for those guardsmen and their families, it is for everyone 
risking their life today in Iraq. They need to come home. And when they 
come home, we know that we have our hands full.

They come home with serious problems. The suicide rate among soldiers 
is at a record high. It is even higher among Guardsmen who are 
activated to serve. Post-traumatic stress disorders of years gone by 
intensify in the returning soldiers from Iraq and Afghanistan.

We know those who suffered serious injuries--amputations, traumatic 
brain injury--are going to need our help for a long time to come. This 
administration has shortchanged the Veterans' Administration. When we 
begged them to put in the billions of dollars necessary to keep our 
promise to these veterans and those from other wars, they said they did 
not need it. Then, of course, they were proven wrong.

We continued to put billions of dollars into the Veterans' 
Administration, and we should and we will for the future, trying to pay 
the long-term costs of this war, a heavy cost that future generations 
will carry. And those on the other side say: Well, let's just let this 
go for another 11 months. Let's see how this all works out, another 11 
months of returning veterans, returning wounded, another 11 months of 
more responsibility to future generations.

Staying with the failed strategy is no strategy at all. Changing 
course in Iraq is long overdue. Quite simply, we cannot give this 
administration another blank check because we know what they are going 
to do with it. They are going to continue this policy as we see more 
and more American soldiers in harm's way. The bill before us is 
reasonable, it is measured, it is a thoughtful effort to put before 
this administration a new approach, a new policy, and a new direction 
in Iraq.

Starting to redeploy the majority of U.S. troops from Iraq within 120 
days is a reasonable thing to do. Certainly, many of them will stay 
there for those specified responsibilities, but as they start to leave, 
the Iraqis may wake up to the reality that it is their country and 
their responsibility. The question is no longer whether the surge, or 
more accurately a significant escalation of troops, has worked. The 
question is how we can return our focus to the original al-Qaida 
threat.

Sad to say, 6 years, more than 6 years after 9/11, Osama bin Laden is 
still on the loose. He is still guiding in his way the al-Qaida forces 
that threaten us in the rest of the world. We need to help countries 
such as Jordan that have been overrun with Iraqi refugees. We certainly 
have to understand that a country that has been that friendly to the 
United States deserves a helping hand, and we have to start to rebuild 
our international image and reputation.

It is unfortunate to hear people around the world, once our friends, 
once our allies, once our supporters, so critical of the United States 
because of the colossal mistake made by the Bush administration with 
this invasion of Iraq. We have to turn that page, and we cannot wait 
until January 20, 2009, to do it.

Last year, a New York Times-CBS News poll showed that only 5 percent 
of Americans trust this President to successfully resolve the Iraq war; 
1 out of 20 Americans trust President Bush to resolve this war. Well, I 
do not believe he will either. I would be with the 95 percent. But 
Congress has an equally important responsibility to oversee this war as 
it is fought, to do everything we can to protect our troops and to 
resolve this war so our troops can come home to the heroes, welcome 
they richly deserve. We need to step into the leadership void that this 
White House has left and change directions for our policy in Iraq.

I am going to support this bill to bring an end to this war. I was 1 
of 23 who voted against it. Of all of the votes that I have ever cast 
in this Congress in the House and Senate, I look back with the greatest 
assurance that was the right vote, the right vote for America. I do not 
think anything that has transpired since that late October night in 
2002 has ever made me waiver in my belief that it was a serious mistake 
for the United States to give to this President and this administration 
the authority to begin this war, which has cost us so much over the 
years.

I believe we have to be careful in our foreign policy. Of course, 
defend America, that is our first responsibility. But never engage in a 
war when we cannot understand the consequences that might follow, like 
this war. It is so much easier to get in a war than it is to get out of 
one.

Senator Feingold is engaging this Senate in a debate that is long 
overdue for a change in policy that is long overdue. The Republicans 
are going to stall, try to avoid the vote, try to speechify us to 
death, not going to face this vote or a vote on the housing crisis. But 
that is nothing new. As the majority leader, Senator Reid has said, 
last year 68 times they initiated a filibuster. That is a brandnew 
record in the Senate. Before that it was 61 filibusters in 2 years. 
That was the record. Well, they managed 68 in 1 year.

It shows you what they are up to. They just want to grind us down, 
slow us down, and make us avoid the issues that count in America. One 
of those issues is ending this war the right way, and another which 
will follow is the housing crisis which plagues our economy.

I yield the floor.