# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `e8add7d6496e717884dcd498790b3991`
`Mr. RISCH â€” 20 May 2009`

---


Mr. RISCH. Mr. President and fellow Senators, I come to the floor to 
offer this important amendment. What this amendment does is simply 
appropriates $2 billion to the National Guard and Reserve equipment 
account. Mechanically, it does this by permitting the OMB to rescind $2 
billion that has been previously appropriated in the stimulus package. 
It exempts from the rescission funds related to the Department of 
Defense, the Department of Homeland Security, and part of title X of 
that bill relating to military construction and veterans and related 
agencies. Otherwise, the OMB is directed to rescind $2 billion, which 
is the amount authorized for the National Guard and Reserve equipment 
account.

The reason for the amendment is that as our Guard units and Reserve 
units have been asked to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan over recent 
years, their equipment has been badly depleted. I have personal 
experience with this, as our Guard unit from Idaho had been dispatched 
to Iraq and spent time there. When they came back, a lot of their 
equipment was necessarily left behind for the use of the Iraqis and for 
the use of other American troops who were going to stay in Iraq. We 
have in Idaho over a period of time gone through a process by which 
some of this equipment has been replaced but not all. Obviously, this 
amendment does not apply just to Idaho; it applies to all States, all 
National Guard units, all Reserve units.

This is something that is badly needed. The National Guard certainly 
performs a valuable service to the Governors of each of the States, to 
the people of each of the States. This bill will help them get the 
equipment that badly needs replacing back in the queue where it belongs 
and back where it can be used by these Guard units and Reserve units.

Thank you, Mr. President.