# CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS
## `e9016fcde3fb0445bb8d30f213f3c423`
`Mrs. CHRISTENSEN â€” 16 July 2007`

---


Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Yes. Not only that, but Congressman Clyburn's 
district will be hosting a disparities conference, as well as the Tri-
Caucus, the Hispanic, Black and Asian Pacific Caucus this weekend.

Mr. Speaker, I'm pleased to join my colleagues to call attention to 
some critical unmet health care needs that this 110th Congress is 
called upon to address.

And I also want to applaud our chairwoman, Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick, 
for making this hour available to us and to thank Congresswoman 
Stephanie Tubbs Jones for her leadership as well.

Before I speak about the children's health insurance program, which 
is up for reauthorization, I want to remind this body that we have not 
yet appropriated the level of funding that would make a dent in the 
health disparities that result in 100,000 unnecessary deaths every year 
because of our country's failure to address them. We worry more about a 
few dollars that may be less than necessary than we worry about the 
unnecessary loss of life that happens every day in this country, 
although we have the wherewithal to stop them.



Until our country funds disparity elimination adequately, people of 
color will continue to get to health care services late, if at all, and 
become disabled or die prematurely from preventable causes.

This Congress will have the opportunity to do just that by passing 
the Healthcare Equity and Accountability Act, introduced by the Black, 
Hispanic, and Asian Pacific Caucus last week. That is the way to 
improve health for everyone and to begin to drive down the skyrocketing 
cost of health care.

Mr. Speaker, I also want to call our attention to the now chronic 
underfunding for the AIDS Drug Assistance Program, or ADAP. As we have 
underfunded it every year, the gaps have grown and the waiting lists 
for lifesaving medicines have grown longer. Some of those waiting in 
line have died because of our neglect. This Congress, led by Democrats 
who have always understood the challenges faced by the HIV/AIDS 
community, more than half of which are people of color, needs to 
correct this deficiency in funding for this important program.

And, also, Mr. Speaker, very soon we will be reauthorizing the State 
Children's Health Insurance Program. We need to do so fully. Now when 
we have the opportunity to do the right thing for America's children 
with whose welfare we are charged, we are poised to shortchange them, 
to let them down, and to leave them without access to health care. That 
is unbelievable. There are 9 million uninsured children, of which 6 
million are at or below 200 percent of poverty and eligible for SCHIP. 
I think we should cover all of them, but current proposals don't even 
cover one-third of those who are eligible.

This Congress should do nothing less than cover all 6 million 
eligible children, and we must do so with robust programs to foster 
their mental, dental, and nutritional health. Investing in our children 
is investing in our future.

The CBO has said that it would cost at least $60 billion to cover all 
of those eligible children. We are told there are not enough offsets, 
not enough money to cover the costs.

Well, there are no offsets for the civil war in Iraq, which we are 
funding while our children are being caught in the crossfire, and there 
were no offsets for the tax cuts to the wealthiest individuals in this 
country, both of which are funded in part with money borrowed from 
Communist China. If we can go into bad debt for those, then we can 
certainly go into good debt for our children because it is an 
investment that pays back invaluable dividends. I am willing to bet, 
Mr. Speaker and colleagues, that we will have to set PAYGO aside for 
some measure that is deemed important, probably even before this 
Congress adjourns. So let's do it now for America's children. There is 
no one and nothing more important than they.

There is one other alternative, and that would be to provide funding 
to cover all 6 million children for a shorter period of time and 
revisit that program 2 or 3 years from now when we should be out of 
Iraq and the tax cuts for the rich would expire. That, I think, is 
another viable alternative.

We know that the President has said that he will veto a bill if it 
costs what he considers too much and even the modest proposals from the 
House and Senate fit that bill. I think that that is a fight the 
American people would want us to take on because our children are just 
that important. And so using his own words, I would say ''bring it 
on.''

Let's not let there be any more Deamonte Drivers, the 11-year-old who 
died because he could not get an $80 tooth extraction. We are a better 
country than that.

Thank you, Congresswoman Tubbs Jones.