# None
## `e95107e310909113de40e56e5ee763df`
`Mr. PRICE of North Carolina â€” 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of an amendment extending 
oversight and accountability for security contractors overseas, for 
contractors performing security functions, as one element of this en 
bloc amendment.

The gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Spratt) joins me in this 
effort, and I also want to acknowledge the leadership of other Members, 
especially that of Ms. Schakowsky, in this critical area of defense 
policy.

This amendment is brief and straightforward. It would simply extend a 
section of the fiscal year 2008 defense authorization bill that 
strengthened the oversight of private security


contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan to additional areas in which there 
is or could be a significant security contractor presence.

I don't need to recount here, Mr. Chairman, the arguments in favor of 
greater oversight and accountability for armed contractors, 
particularly those operating in areas in which our military is 
operating. The high-profile incidents of contractor misconduct that 
have punctuated our campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan should speak for 
themselves.

In responding to these incidents, Congress has come a long way toward 
improving Federal management and oversight of private security 
contractors, most notably through several important reforms, including 
those in the fiscal 2008 defense authorization bill. These reforms, 
many of which were drawn from my broader contractor accountability 
legislation, have been credited with improving both the operational 
capabilities of the Armed Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan and Congress' 
ability to conduct effective oversight of private security contractors.

As our military faces new and emerging threats in other areas of the 
world, it is critical that these effective oversight measures be 
maintained and extended. This amendment seeks to do just that by 
extending several of the key reforms enacted in 2008 to additional 
areas with significant contractor presence. The amendment lists four 
such areas by name, but its broader intent is to give the Defense 
Department, the State Department, and USAID the tools and authority 
they need to apply these coordination and oversight mechanisms to any 
area in which our military is conducting significant operations.

I want to thank Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member McKeon and the Armed 
Services Committee for their leadership in drafting this legislation as 
well as for their support and cooperation in the effort to improve 
transparency and accountability in the use of contractors.

I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.