# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `e96112a2ca70562713c6c3af62c08558`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia â€” 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairwoman of the 
subcommittee, and I want to express my support for the bill and express 
my appreciation specifically for the significant increases in funding 
for global health issues, peacekeeping, and trade capacity building, 
especially in Colombia. And I know that the chairlady shares the 
frustration that was articulated by the preceding speaker, Mr. Olver, 
on Darfur. We wish we could do far more than we are able to on the 
horrific situation in Darfur.



But I also want to express my support for the work of an 
international nongovernmental organization, the International 
Commission on Missing Persons, otherwise known as the ICMP. The ICMP is 
an organization whose work in Bosnia, Iraq, Vietnam and the tsunami-
affected areas has brought relief to thousands of families with missing 
relatives resulting from armed conflict and natural disaster. This 
commission, which was established in 1996 from the Dayton Peace 
Accords, has received U.S. Government support in the past and is widely 
acclaimed throughout the international community. But is in desperate 
need of funds in Iraq today.

I would strongly urge the committee to consider this organization for 
possible congressional support in this year's conference or in future 
appropriations.