# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `e9aa4127772c0a302f9847fb2cc7e823`
`Mr. CARDIN â€” 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for 
H.R. 2642, the fiscal year 2008 Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs appropriations bill. This is an important bill, one that makes 
the necessary investments in caring for our veterans, in improving the 
quality of life for our military families, and in building and 
improving the facilities integral to our military's current and future 
mission and our national security. The legislation provides $64.7 
billion in discretionary funding, which is $4 billion above the 
President's budget request. Frankly, the President's request was 
insufficient, so I support the Appropriations Committee's 
recommendation.

The bill offers substantial new investments in health care for 
America's veterans and takes into consideration the unique needs of our 
service men and women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. By 
increasing critical investments in medical services, which include 
treatment of traumatic brain injury, TBI, and post traumatic stress 
disorder, PTSD, for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, providing the 
funding necessary to hire new claims processors to address the VA's 
backlog, and investing in VA repair and maintenance necessary to 
prevent another Walter Reed-type situation, the bill addresses key 
shortcomings in our veterans health care system.

The bill also addresses key quality-of-life and mission-related needs 
for all U.S. troops and their families. I am grateful it includes $265 
million for construction of facilities at Aberdeen Proving Ground, 
Patuxent River, Suitland, Fort Detrick, and Fort Meade in recognition 
of the growing and critical role these Maryland installations play in 
our national defense.

As stated in the Base Realignment and Closure, BRAC, Commission 
Report, the primary goal for the 2005 BRAC process was military 
transformation. While acknowledging the need to save money, the 
Commission went beyond a business model analysis, giving military value 
criteria priority consideration. Of critical importance to communities 
in Maryland and to citizens across the Nation, the bill provides $8.17 
billion for BRAC 2005 to implement the base closures and realignments 
that the Commission determined are critical to our military's current 
and future mission. This includes over $700 million for the 
construction of crucial facilities at Aberdeen Proving Ground, Indian 
Head, Andrews Air Force Base, Fort Meade, and the Bethesda National 
Naval Medical Center.

Given the critical nature of these appropriations, you can imagine my 
concern when I read the Statement of Administration Policy on this 
bill. President Bush, it seems, thinks that such investments in our 
veterans and our military infrastructure are ''excessive.'' While he 
has indicated that he will not veto H.R. 2642, he has threatened to 
veto other appropriations bills unless we find ways to cut spending in 
those measures equal to the spending--$4 billion--in this bill that 
exceeds his request.

This administration, which has consistently underestimated the 
resources it would take to fund our military and care for our veterans, 
promises that it is ''closely tracking the ongoing cost of providing 
for our veterans.'' When it comes to bases, troops, and veterans, we 
shouldn't be cutting corners or scrambling later to make up for earlier 
mistakes. It is our duty to pass this bill and fully fund the veterans 
initiatives and military construction projects it contains.

I applaud Senators Byrd, Cochran, Johnson, Hutchison, and Reed and my 
other colleagues on the Appropriations Committee for their excellent 
work and look forward to quick passage of this critical legislation.

