# None
## `ea28c8113562bffcbe856e41153843f6`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 23 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, I think it is important that we have a 
real discussion back and forth on this very issue.

We talked about the President coming to the floor and hopefully 
bringing about and, well, promoting bipartisanship, coming to the floor 
and saying there are some good things that have happened here; you 
know, hey recognize the historical moment of having the first female 
Speaker in the history of the country; but secondly, dealing with some 
of the major issues.

I understand, Mr. Speaker, in his speech on Iraq he is going to say 
what he says and says he sent the escalation troops. He is going to 
stick with it or my way or the highway. It is the wrong approach and it 
is going to inflame the American people and Members of Congress on both 
sides of the aisle.

Also, I would like to say, even when it comes down to the issue of 
the minimum wage, I know that the President has said, well, you know, I 
like the minimum wage but there are some things that I would like to 
do. That is fine, but as far as I am concerned, when it comes down to 
the bill, signing it, he needs to be overjoyed to sign it because that 
is what the American people want. It is not just Democrats. I mean, the 
American people want to see folks that are making $5.15 an hour to make 
$7.15 or greater because when they make more, the American people make 
more, salaried workers, because their pay is going to go up.

I see Mr. Ryan has something there he is going to go a little further 
into it. Stem cell research, folks may have issues here and there, but 
the bottom line is the American people have spoken in many of these 
Senate races and many of these House races, and they have spoken 
because they want their loved ones to have a better chance in beating 
some of the terminal cancer that is out there right now and diseases 
that so many Americans are suffering through and their family members 
are trying to fight through those issues.

The bipartisan 9/11 Commission, Mr. Speaker, why fight on the commas 
and the periods saying that, well, we believe that we are already doing 
that. Well, apparently you must not be doing it because the 9/11 
Commission has given you Ds and Fs in those areas that you say that you 
are already doing it.

So not just because we got to the cafeteria first we get an 
opportunity at the only oatmeal cookie that is left. It is the fact 
that we have to secure America. This goes beyond I thought of this 
first or I thought of this second.

The American people said they want the full implementation of the 9/
11 Commission, and that is what we gave them. The majority vote here in 
this House and will be a majority vote in the Senate and will have the 
opportunity to go to the White House and hopefully the President will 
implement those recommendations, it is to make America safer. It is not 
because it was not your original thought to do it, and I am hoping that 
he comes to the floor and embraces that on behalf of all of our safety.

I do not think that I need to advise the President in any way, but I 
think that on behalf of all of us, if we are going to continue the 
spirit that we have started and bipartisanship and having the least 
friction as possible, especially on issues that we should not even be 
debating on, the issues that I have outlined, they are not even issues 
that are brand-new issues. These are issues that have been talked about 
in committee, talked about it in commissions, even as it relates to 
campaigns to get to Congress.

The issue of the investment on Big Oil, the billions of dollars in 
subsidies, and now we have reversed and put them in the clean, 
renewable energy, that should not even be a debate.



It should not even be, well, I agree with it or I don't agree with 
it. You should agree with it, because we need it more now than ever.

One of the big issues now, Mr. Ryan, when it all boils down to 
redeployment of our troops in Iraq, all of this is a vicious circle of 
irresponsibility in the past, or a lack of responsibility, and making 
sure that we are able to carry out not only diplomatic responsibility, 
but legislative responsibility and oversight.

I think the reason we have had the escalation in troops, Mr. Ryan, is 
prior to the lights being illuminated or the committee rooms being 
illuminated to have hearings on what we should do in Iraq, how we 
should work in a diplomatic way in Iraq, what kind of leadership should 
we have in Iraq, now that is happening with the confirmation of a new 
general to take over the command in Iraq.

I think it is important, Mr. Ryan, that we move in the direction that 
we have been moving in, and that is in a bipartisan direction, that is 
in a direction that the supermajority of American people agree with. 
Let's get those things off the table. Let's start fine-tuning these 
issues of six in '06. I think some of the Republican leadership just 
has issues with the fact it is part of six in '06 and ''we have to be 
against it, because we didn't do it when we had the opportunity to do 
it.''

I can care less about what happened in the last Congress. I do care 
about what is happening in this Congress, Mr. Ryan, and what is 
happening in the future Congresses. Because when folks woke up at 7 
o'clock in the morning on a Tuesday morning and voted for 
representation, they voted for leadership, they voted for 
bipartisanship, they voted for a Washington, D.C., especially under the 
Capitol dome, Americans coming together, because we are all Americans, 
coming together on behalf of the greater good.

That is what they are counting on. That is what we should give them. 
The majority of the Members of the House should give that to them. When 
I am speaking of the majority members of the House, I am talking about 
Republicans too. I am talking about all of us coming together on their 
behalf.

So, to hear these issues tonight, it is going to be very, very 
important. The President has a choice. If he wants to come to the 
floor, Mr. Speaker, and continue to give the same speech that he has 
been giving in the past, it will be very, very unfortunate. But if he 
comes to the floor tonight talking about how he would like to work with 
the Democratic Congress and work with the Democratic leadership and the 
Republican leadership, and the same


thing over in the House and the Senate, work in a bipartisan way, if he 
used the words ''bipartisan Congress,'' I think he will be more 
successful in passing legislation that we can all come together on and 
that we do have an input in it, because we will have input in it, and 
we should not dig in and deny the American people of this great 
opportunity, Members, to see advancement in health care, to see some 
advancement in the issue of Iraq and Afghanistan at the same time, and 
to see some level of advancement in having clean air for our children 
and renewable fuel here in America, investing in the Midwest versus the 
Middle East.

I yield to my friend from Ohio.