# None
## `ea28e8725260052028e14cb2b9d25065`
`Mr. PRICE of North Carolina â€” 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise as a sponsor of this 
important legislation to prohibit the establishment of permanent U.S. 
bases in Iraq.

We have passed similar legislation before by a wide margin. The first 
time was a few weeks after I questioned General Abizaid in an 
appropriations hearing. He could not unequivocally disavow permanent 
bases, and so the House stepped in and asserted its prerogative on 
foreign policy by prohibiting permanent bases in Iraq.

Now, my colleagues might understandably ask, why are we voting on 
this bill again today? The reason is that the Bush administration 
continues to stubbornly reject the will of Congress, of the Iraq Study 
Group, and of the American people.

Defense Secretary Gates recently stated his goal of ''a long and 
enduring presence'' in Iraq. President Bush has stated his vision for a 
presence ''as we have in South Korea,'' where U.S. troops remain 50 
years after an armistice. That kind of rhetoric suggests that they have 
not yet gotten the message, and it seriously damages our cause.

The Iraqi people and the American people need assurance that there is 
light at the end of the tunnel, that occupation is not a permanent 
state of affairs. So I urge my colleagues to support this legislation 
today, and to once again unequivocally state that the U.S. will not 
establish permanent bases in Iraq, because this administration and the 
world need to understand that America's misadventure in Iraq must and 
will come to an end.