# EXPRESSING APPRECIATION TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND TO KOREAN  AMERICANS
## `ea2a6f41226f6296f28c4eb6dfeb5484`
`Mr. BOOZMAN â€” 7 February 2008`

---


Mr. BOOZMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Lee Myung-
Bak on his election as President of the Republic of Korea and to 
express appreciation for the many contributions of the Republic of 
Korea and Korean Americans towards strengthening and enlarging the 
U.S.-Korea alliance partnership.

On January 13, 1903 the first Korean immigrants arrived in the United 
States. On that day each year, now known as Korean American Day, we 
recognize and honor the economic, social, cultural and political 
contributions Korean-Americans have made to the United States over the 
last century. Korean-Americans have thrived in this country because of 
a shared belief in the importance of family life, individual 
responsibility, hard work and education.

Over the past 50 years we have seen the Republic of Korea emerge from 
colonial rule and the ravages of war to stand alongside the United 
States as a beacon of democracy, peace and security; prospering under a 
free market economy whilst upholding the rule of law. Over these 50 
years the Republic of Korea has been a loyal and indispensable ally to 
the United States as we have worked at close quarters to combat those 
who would threaten these shared values.

In recent times we have seen this commitment through South Korean 
peacekeeping troops in Lebanon and Afghanistan, and the 650 South 
Korean military personnel serving alongside our soldiers in Iraq today, 
now the third largest partner in the coalition with $460 million 
pledged to the reconstruction effort. At the end of December last year, 
South Korea's National Assembly voted to extend the time of its 
commitment to provide troops for the War in Iraq. While some of our 
friends scale down their operations in Iraq, our South Korean friends 
have remained steadfast in the War on Terror, for which we are truly 
grateful.

In his farewell address to the Congress in 1951, one of Arkansas' 
greatest sons, General Douglas MacArthur, said this of the Republic of 
Korea: ''Of the nations of the world, Korea alone, up to now, is the 
sole one which has risked its all against communism. The magnificence 
of the courage and fortitude of the Korean people defies description.''

Madam Speaker, I would like to congratulate the new President-Elect 
of the Republic of Korea, Lee Myung-Bak, and wish him well as he takes 
on the responsibility of working with the United States to tackle the 
challenges of the East Asian region, particularly the ongoing efforts 
to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula. I ask that my colleagues join me 
today in recognizing and honoring the U.S.-Korea Alliance and the 
contribution of our South Korean friends to the global war on terror as 
we work towards ensuring the safety of our citizens.

We look forward to fostering our historic relationship under the new 
leadership of President Lee Myung-Bak.



