# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `eace677801b79874279722a4f597e32b`
`Mr. WOLF â€” 17 June 2009`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Chairman, as the ranking member on the committee, I 
feel an obligation just to make a comment to kind of put things in 
perspective, particularly as the American people are watching, because 
I think what we're doing today is setting a very bad and a dangerous 
precedent.

I've been around the House for a while, and I've been involved in 
debates on scores of appropriations bills. Traditionally, whether it's 
been Democrats or Republicans in the majority, we've had open rules on 
spending bills, and a respectful working relationship across the aisle; 
and that's the way it should be, and that's what the American people 
expect, a cooperative attitude and the opportunity for full scrutiny of 
how their tax dollars are being spent.

I didn't like the preprinting requirement for amendments that the 
majority instituted to start the appropriations process on the floor 
this session with the Commerce-Justice-Science bill. I supported an 
open rule so that every Member could have the opportunity to review the 
entire bill, and if there were programs that Members believed could be 
cut, then we could debate that amendment and the House could work its 
will.

So we started the process late last night to debate the preprinted 
amendments. And 21 minutes into the amendment debate, the chairman of 
the committee pulled the plug on that process and on the Members who, 
really, in good faith, followed the instructions of the preprinting. 
They went up; they did everything that was asked of them. The rules, 
Mr. Chairman, were then changed in the middle of the night, and now we 
have even a more controlled process.

Members on my side, and I think if you kind of do unto others as you 
would have them do unto you can think, if you were in that situation 
and had gone through the same thing the guys on our side, Members on 
our side, how you would feel. Members on my side have the right to have 
their voice heard and offer amendments to control spending. Members on 
both sides had substantive, thoughtful amendments.

Members on my side have the right to have their voice heard and offer 
amendments, whatever they may be, to control spending or whatever. 
Members on both sides also have substantive and thoughtful amendments 
that were germane and in order, and now those Members have lost the 
opportunity to offer them.

For example, Mr. Rogers from Michigan, who was an FBI agent, who went 
to Afghanistan, God bless him for taking the time for the oversight, 
who serves on the Intelligence Committee, had a very important 
amendment regarding an apparent policy initiative by this 
administration, to expand the practice of reading Miranda rights to 
detainees in the custody of the U.S. Armed Forces in Afghanistan. It's 
called global justice.

Mr. Rogers wanted to talk about that and offer an amendment. And 
whether we would pass it or not, he had every right to do so. And now 
Mr. Rogers and other Members have legitimate concerns about such 
policies. He simply wanted the opportunity to offer his amendment and 
let the House vote. He complied with the printing requirement. He 
testified late last night, sat up here late into the night, till 12:30 
or 1 in the morning. He testified at the Rules Committee; and yet, now, 
Mr. Rogers finds he is unable to even offer this amendment that deals 
with the whole fundamental issue of the war on terror, what's taking 
place in Afghanistan, and all these issues.

Closing, this is a departure from the traditional open rules and the 
comity that has characterized the appropriation process over the years.

If we can't even come up with a fair process to debate annual 
spending bills on this floor, how can we ever hope to ever, ever, ever 
find solutions to the big problems that this country has?

I yield back the balance of my time.