# IRAQ
## `ead883de5b5de4ced312acf63c7b1559`
`Mr. KERRY â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Virginia whom I 
think has been unbelievably thoughtful, unbelievably patient and 
courageous in this effort. I had the privilege of traveling with him to 
Iraq, together with Senator Stevens. I could see the thought that he 
was giving then to the ways in which he was visually perceiving that it 
wasn't working the way it was promised. There is no stronger advocate 
for our Armed Forces. There is nobody who understands the military 
better, having just finished a tour as the chair of the Armed Services 
Committee. I really think the administration should bend over backwards 
to listen to this Senator who speaks with a voice of great 
reasonableness. He is greatly respected in the Senate. I thank him for 
his courage, for being willing to stand up on this issue.

The Congress, all of us, come here with a new responsibility in a 
sense. The last election could not have been more clear. People all 
across the country registered their disapproval of the policy that was 
being executed in Iraq. In fact, the Iraq Study Group report was 
awaited with enormous anticipation by everybody as an opportunity to 
bring everybody together and think this through anew and find a way to 
get a legitimate, across-the-aisle, Republican/Democrat, joint effort 
in the best interests of our country. I regret to say that the best 
efforts of former Secretary of State Jim Baker; the former Attorney 
General, Chief of Staff of the President, Ed Meese; another former 
Secretary of State, Larry Eagleburger; a former leader in the United 
States Senate and moderate from the State of Wyoming, Al Simpson; and a 
former Secretary of Defense, Bill Perry--just to name a group of those 
who were on the Iraq Study Group--that their efforts were just cast 
aside. Every recommendation they made was left on the sidelines.

Today we find the President adopting a policy which runs counter even 
to the advice of his own generals. Rather than listen to the advice, 
they change the generals and they put people in who would pursue a 
different policy. General Casey comes back, General Abizaid departs, 
and the policy goes on.

This institution has a solemn obligation to vote on this issue. It 
should not be procedurally delayed, and it should not be played around 
with. The fact is, the American people asked us to accept 
responsibility for something for which we already have some 
responsibility because we voted as an institution to empower the 
President to be able to send troops to Iraq, though many of us who 
voted for that resolution never voted for the President to abuse the 
power he was given by ignoring diplomacy, rushing to war, and 
forgetting to do the planning that they had promised they would do.

Our troops have done their duty. Our troops have served with 
remarkable courage under the most difficult circumstances. They have a 
right, together with the American people, to expect that this Congress 
does its duty. That does not mean avoiding a simple vote. If you are in 
favor of sending the troops, you have an opportunity tomorrow to 
register that vote, say you are in favor, stand up and be counted; if 
you are opposed you should vote no--as the House will do in a short 
period of time.

Whatever procedural games are played on the floor of the Senate will 
never erase the perception by the American people of the responsibility 
that we ought to be exercising. They understand that this is the time 
and this is the place and they expect us now to execute our 
responsibility. We owe it to the troops. For all those who come to the 
Senate floor and talk about supporting the troops, responsibility for 
the troops, what would be fair for the troops, don't demoralize the 
troops--there is nothing more demoralizing, I will tell you, as a 
former troop myself, than having a policy that doesn't work; sending 
you out on missions which don't have the kind of purpose that you 
believe can succeed. You send these guys out in these vehicles, waiting 
to be blown up by an IED, knowing as they hold their breath that they 
don't have an adequately armored vehicle to be able to withstand it, 
and they go out and come back and turn to each other and say: What did 
we accomplish? What did we do? Did we secure a territory? Did we change 
minds? Did we actually hold onto some advantage gained by driving 
through a city in that kind of a dangerous situation?

Sending an additional 20,000 of our troops in the middle of a raging 
civil war is not a sensible policy on any


number of levels. I believe, as a matter of larger strategy, raising 
the stakes by sending 20,000 additional troops and saying at the same 
time, publicly, ''This is it, this is our big move, if this doesn't 
work we don't know what,'' is an unbelievable invitation to those who 
make mischief to make more mischief. And what's more, the very people 
who keep saying, ''Don't set a date, don't set a timeline,'' set a 
timeline on this very deployment because they have come to us and said 
this is only going to be for a few months. So they announce a timeline 
on the very escalation that they say is supposed to make the difference 
and advertise: If you are one of the bad guys, just wait those 3 
months. That is what they can do, knowing it is only 3 months.


I think there is a smarter strategy. I think there is a better way to 
be successful in Iraq, and it involves holding Iraqis accountable and 
setting legitimate benchmarks for what they ought to be doing. It is 
incredible to me that some people on the other side would obstruct a 
debate on the most fundamental issue confronting our country today. We 
are sent here to be a great deliberative body, and they don't want to 
deliberate. They don't want to make a decision. They think somehow they 
can just walk away and avoid responsibility for voting on the question 
of this escalation.

The majority leader has said they will have every opportunity to vote 
on that in a short period of time. Every amendment they want to bring 
they will have an opportunity to bring. We can have, in the meantime, a 
real vote on Iraq.

Since the end of last month when we started talking about talking 
about Iraq, 60 American troops have died in Iraq. There is a fellow by 
the name of Kevin Landeck, whom I just learned yesterday was killed on 
February 2 by an IED. Kevin Landeck comes from Wheaton, IL. He was a 
member of a Ranger unit over there. I have a wonderful photograph, a 
digital photograph on my computer of Kevin and a bunch of his other 
troops standing on a stairwell celebrating Christmas. The Christmas 
stockings are all hanging from the stairwell. I am proud that our 
office--Mary Tarr in our office particularly--has led an effort to help 
send packages to those troops regularly. Our office sends them boxes 
full of goodies, at Christmastime particularly--the stockings.

Sadly, Kevin has given his life in the ultimate act of patriotism, a 
courageous young man, admired by his fellow soldiers. That happened 
during the time that we couldn't even debate this issue on the floor of 
the Senate, during a time that the Senate avoided its responsibility.

We have every right to expect that the people who were elected to 
protect Kevin Landeck and the rest of those troops get this policy 
right--for their parents, for them, and for all of us.

I believe the only way we are going to do that is, ultimately, to be 
able to set a target date which gives the President the discretion to 
keep troops there to complete the training. What other purpose is there 
to be there? We give the President that discretion. We give him the 
discretion to leave troops necessary to chase al-Qaida. We give him the 
discretion to be able to leave troops necessary to protect American 
forces and facilities. What other purpose would there be, after 4 
years, to have us there but to finish the training of the Iraqis and to 
provide an emergency buffer against Iran and others?

But you don't need to be on patrol in Baghdad, carrying the brunt of 
a civil war on a daily basis in order to provide that. You can be over 
the horizon. You can be deployed in garrison. You can be rear deployed. 
There are any number of ways to protect American interests in the 
region, and I am tired of our colleagues on the other side suggesting 
that a policy that clearly advantages America's position in the region, 
changes the dynamics, shifts responsibility to the Iraqis, and 
ultimately protects our troops is somehow a policy of abandonment. It 
is not. It is a policy for success. And it is to be measured against 
the current policy, which is an invitation to more jihadists.

Our own intelligence agencies are telling us we are building the 
numbers of jihadists. We are inviting more terror. The world is more 
dangerous. Iraq is less united. Iran is stronger. Hezbollah is 
stronger. Hamas is stronger. This is a failed policy, and when a policy 
is failing, day after day, leaders have an obligation to stop and get 
it right.

I believe that requires us to have a summit, bring the nations 
together to solve the issues between the stakeholders and ultimately 
resolve what our troops are powerless to resolve. A civil war is a 
struggle for power. We have to resolve that at the diplomatic and 
negotiating table.

So I strongly believe it is not enough for Congress simply to go on 
record opposing the President's reckless plan. Congress has an 
obligation to provide a responsible exit strategy that preserves our 
interests in the region, retains our ability to protect the security of 
the United States, and honors the sacrifice our troops have made.

Eight months ago in the Senate, 13 of us stood up against appeals to 
politics and pride and demanded a date to bring our troops home, to 
make Iraqis stand up for Iraq and fight a more effective war on terror. 
But while we lost that roll call, I still believe it was the right 
policy to put in place, to demand accountability, and to leverage 
action.

Now, I am more convinced than ever that a combination of serious, 
sustained diplomacy and the enforcement of benchmarks for progress by 
the Iraqi government, leveraged by a 1-year deadline for redeployment 
of U.S. troops, is the best way to achieve our goal of stability in 
Iraq and security in the region.

That is why I will again introduce legislation that offers a 
comprehensive strategy for achieving a political solution and bringing 
our troops home within 1 year. We have to find a way to end this 
misguided war, and I believe this legislation is the best and most 
responsible way forward.

Let me emphasize that this strategy does not mean abandoning Iraq in 
1 year: in fact, it gives the President the discretion to leave the 
minimum number of U.S. troops necessary to complete the training of 
Iraqi security forces, go after terrorists, and protect U.S. facilities 
and personnel.

This 1-year deadline is not arbitrary. It is consistent with the Iraq 
Study Group's goal of withdrawing U.S. combat forces from Iraq by the 
first quarter of 2008--it's consistent with the timeframe for 
transferring control to the Iraqis set forth by General Casey, and the 
schedule agreed upon by the Iraqi government itself. Even the President 
has said that, under his new strategy, responsibility for security 
would be transferred to Iraqis before the end of this year. It is the 
opposite of arbitrary. The President has said it, our generals have 
said it, the Iraq Study Group has said it.

Some say those of us who oppose the President's failed policy in Iraq 
do not offer an alternative--nothing could be further from the truth. 
This legislation offers a comprehensive military and diplomatic 
strategy that incorporates key recommendations of the Iraq Study 
Group--including many that some of us here have long been advocating--
to provide us with the best chance to succeed: holding a summit with 
all of Iraq's neighbors, including Iran and Syria--creating an 
international contact group--enforcing a series of benchmarks for 
meeting key political objectives--shifting the military mission to 
training Iraqi security forces and conducting targeted counterterrorism 
operations--and maintaining an over-the-horizon presence to protect our 
interests throughout the region.

It is time for Iraqis to assume responsibility for their country. We 
need a timetable which forces Iraqi politicians to confront reality and 
start making the hard compromises they have resisted thus far. Instead, 
they are using America's presence as a security blanket. Americans 
should not be dying to buy time for Iraqi politicians hoping to cut a 
better deal. We should be working to bring about the compromise that is 
ultimately the only solution to what is happening today in Iraq. And 
Iraqi politicians have repeatedly shown they only respond to 
deadlines--a deadline to transfer authority, deadlines to hold two 
elections and a referendum, and a deadline to form a government.


Without hard deadlines, our best hopes for progress in Iraq have been 
repeatedly dashed. When Prime Minister Maliki took power in May, 
General Casey and Ambassador Khalilzad said the new government had 6 
months to make the political compromises necessary to win public 
confidence and


unify the country. They were right, but with no real deadline to force 
the new government's hand, that period passed without meaningful 
action--and we are now seeing the disastrous results.

In fact, for 4 years now, we have been hearing from this 
administration that progress is right around the corner. We have been 
hearing the Iraqis are near a deal on oil revenues, that they are 
making progress towards reconciliation--but we still haven't seen any 
results.

That is why we must give teeth to the benchmarks agreed upon by the 
Iraqi government for national reconciliation, security and governance. 
Meeting these benchmarks is crucial, but without any enforcement 
mechanism, they are little more than a wish list. That is why this 
legislation supports the Iraq Study Group proposal to make U.S. 
political, military, or economic assistance conditional on Iraqis's 
meeting these benchmarks.

A deadline is also essential to getting Iraq's neighbors to face up 
to the realities of the security needs of the region. None of them want 
to see Iraq fall apart. That should be the basis for cooperation in 
stabilizing Iraq, and yet a sense of urgency has been lacking. This 
deadline will make clear the stakes and hopefully focus their minds on 
helping the Iraqis reach a political solution.

We cannot turn back the clock and reverse the decisions that brought 
us to this pass in Iraq and the Middle East. We cannot achieve the kind 
of clear and simple victory the administration promised the American 
people again and again even as Iraq went up in flames. But we can avoid 
an outright defeat. We can avoid creating the chaos we all say we want 
to avoid. We can avoid a victory for our adversaries by taking a clear-
eyed approach to identifying specifically what we can and cannot 
accomplish in Iraq.

With a new Congress comes a new responsibility: to get this policy 
right. That starts with preventing the President from going forward 
with this senseless escalation. And it has to end with an exit strategy 
that preserves our core interests in Iraq, in the region, and 
throughout the world. Only then will we have honored the sacrifices of 
our troops and the wishes of those who sent us here. Only then will we 
have done our duty.