# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `eb0ffda4d0fcfab8e7691d4a2d5052a5`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida â€” 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of the 
time.

Mr. Speaker, throughout the evening, we have heard some very, very 
interesting speeches. I listened with great respect to all of them. I 
agreed with some, I disagreed with some, I wasn't sure about some. 
Nevertheless, it was a good debate at a high level. I paid special 
attention to the very distinguished Speaker of the House because in her 
opening comments, she talked about how Monday, Veterans Day, America 
honored our veterans. She spoke about the Veterans appropriations bill 
in great, glowing terms. I agree with that. It is a really good bill. 
It provides a lot of benefits for the veterans. There are 400,000 
veterans claims backed up. That bill provided money to hire additional 
adjudicators to get rid of that backlog and get the veterans what they 
need.

The problem is that as she spoke about the importance of this bill 
and what a great bill it was and great bill it is, she failed to say 
that the House passed it on June 15, the Senate passed it in September, 
and here we are in November still waiting to get that bill on the House 
floor.

I say, Madam Speaker, let's vote on the VA appropriations bill.

I mentioned the fact that there were great speeches. But, Mr. 
Speaker, tonight we will not be voting or be recorded on how those 
speeches went, or what those speeches said, or what those speeches 
included. We are not going to be voting on opinions. We are not going 
to be voting on politics. We are going to be voting on what is in this 
bill. What has been said about this bill is not necessarily what is 
actually written in the bill. But we are going to vote for what is 
written in that bill. We will be held accountable for our vote on what 
that bill says, not on what some speaker said about it.

One of the things that I mentioned in my opening comments that I was 
really offended by is that this legislation gives constitutional 
protection to terrorists, the same constitutional protection that all 
of our constituents enjoy. I refer to page 3 of the bill itself, 
''Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the rights under 
the United States Constitution of any person in the custody or under 
the physical jurisdiction of the United States.''

Now, that gives terrorists the same protection that your constituents 
have. And that's just not right. By giving them that protection, do we 
give them for example, do we have to read them their Miranda rights if 
we capture them on the battlefield? Do we have to allow them to pay 
bail and get out of jail or get out of detention? What kind of rights 
will we be giving to terrorists with just this one sentence that says 
they shall have rights under the Constitution? These are terrorists, 
Mr. Speaker. These aren't even people who are signatories to the Geneva 
Convention. They don't play by any rules. They do whatever they must 
do, and they have killed thousands and thousands of Americans, and they 
have killed thousands and thousands of the Muslim populations.

Now, something about this bill, on page 6 of this bill, ''After the 
conclusion of the reduction and transition of United States Armed 
Forces to a limited presence as required by this section, the Secretary 
of Defense may deploy or maintain members of the Armed Forces in Iraq 
only for the following missions.'' Now, pay attention to this because 
this is what you will be allowing. For those of you that think you're 
getting troops out of Iraq, this is what this bill will permit. The 
Armed Forces in Iraq can be there for the following missions: 
''Protecting United States diplomatic facilities, United States Armed 
Forces, and American citizens.'' We do that now. That is one of the 
things that we are doing right now.

So you think you're getting out of that. This bill keeps you in that. 
The next paragraph, ''Conducting limited training, equipment, and 
providing logistical and intelligence support to the Iraqi Security 
forces.'' We're doing that now. So if you think this bill is going to 
change anything, it doesn't because you are allowing them to stay


to do the same thing that they are doing now.

The next paragraph, ''Engaging in targeted counterterrorism 
operations against al Qaeda, al Qaeda affiliated groups, and other 
terrorist organizations in Iraq.'' Mr. Speaker, we're doing that now.

On page 12, we go to the Iraqi Security Forces Fund provided in this 
bill. ''For the 'Iraq Security Forces Fund', $500 million, Provided, 
that such funds shall be available to the Secretary of Defense, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of allowing 
the Commander, Multinational Security Transition Command-Iraq, or the 
Secretary's designee, to provide assistance, with the concurrence of 
the Secretary of State, to the security forces of Iraq.'' Mr. Speaker, 
we are doing that now. So if you think we're making a change here, read 
the bill.

It goes on to say, ''Including the provision of equipment, supplies, 
services, training, facility and infrastructure repair, renovation, and 
construction, and funding, and to provide training, reintegration, 
education and employment programs for concerned local citizens, former 
militia members and detainees and former detainees.'' Mr. Speaker, 
we're doing all that now.

So this bill doesn't make very many changes if you think this gets 
you out of Iraq. It doesn't. If you read the bill, you will see that it 
doesn't. Now, these are things that we would be allowed to do under 
this bill. But if this bill were successful, and it will not be because 
I have an idea the President would veto it in its present form, we 
would have to do all of these same things that we are doing today but 
with a smaller force, a smaller force, minus the surge, for example. 
The change in policy that we all demanded early on came about, and it 
was called the ''surge.'' The surge has had many positive effects. When 
you get to the point that The New York Times and the L.A. Times and the 
Washington Post are writing stories about the positive effects of the 
surge, you have to admit there is something real there in the surge. So 
do you want to go back and have to do all of the same things we are 
doing today with a smaller force? I don't think so.

We will have a motion to recommit. And if that motion to recommit is 
successful, we will have a bill that we can all vote for and that I 
believe the President would be willing to sign. So let's vote based on 
what is in this bill, not what the speeches say about it, not about the 
politics, not about the opinions, but let's actually vote on what is in 
this bill and let's support our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan and 
anywhere else in the world where they might be deployed. We owe them no 
less. This bill is not a good bill today. Let's vote against it tonight 
and vote for the motion to recommit.

