# SBIR/STTR REAUTHORIZATION ACT
## `eb6af08ad27ed4542ff01680a031d44b`
`Mr. YOUNG of Alaska â€” 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. I thank the gentleman for yielding because we're 
talking about innovating small business and helping small business in 
this country. And that's well and good, and I congratulate the chairman 
and, of course, the ranking members on this legislation.

But, Madam Chairman, it's all for naught, it's all for naught, unless 
we address this issue of energy. Small business can't run on hot air. 
Small business can't even survive in this Nation or progress unless we 
solve this energy problem of fossil fuels.

And you may have heard me last week saying it's not your fault other 
than the fact you're in the wheelhouse now. You're in the wheelhouse. 
We were there for 12 years, and we didn't solve it either. But you said 
you would do that. You would lower the cost of energy for small 
business and the consumers of this Nation. That has not happened.

Realistically, this Congress cannot do it unless we address the issue 
of production. Not pie in the sky but production.

There's no shortage of fossil fuels in the United States of America. 
There's a shortage of the will to develop it. We just had a sale in 
Alaska in the Chukchi Sea, $2.6 billion. And they tell me, the 
geologists, there's more oil there than there is in the Gulf of Mexico. 
But we can't, in fact, develop it because of a lawsuit by certain 
interest groups in this Nation who do not want that developed. We have 
the Beaufort Sea. We have the Aleutian chain. That's just Alaska.

And for those of you in California, you have more oil off your shores 
than we do in Alaska if you'll develop it. But you have not done so. We 
have not done so.

We have the Gulf of Florida. We can't do it. We have the Rocky 
Mountains, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and we have not 
done so. We have not passed one piece of energy legislation in this 
body that produces any energy that runs these small businesses.

So I ask you, my colleagues, how can you stand here on the floor and 
sit on this floor and talk about innovation for small business without 
addressing the energy problem?

Each man, woman, and child this year will pay a $2,000 tax to foreign 
countries, each man, woman and child in the United States of America, 
for buying fossil fuels overseas and not developing those fossil fuels 
within our borders. That's $2,000 a year, the largest tax of any one 
family, a family of five, a $10,000 tax, to the Saudi Arabians or 
Venezuela or Kuwait or Iran or Iraq.



Seventy percent of our fossil fuels today are being imported because 
this body has not solved this problem, and should do so. Some of you on 
that side, some on this side voted to open the Arctic Wildlife Range in 
Alaska 12 times in this House. We did get it out of the Senate once, 
and Bill Clinton vetoed it. He vetoed it. We passed it 12 times here, 
11 times; couldn't get the votes in the Senate. If we had it developed 
today, we would be producing enough energy so they couldn't raise the 
prices they are doing now.

By the way, everybody says, Get the oil companies. They say, Get 
those dirty oil companies. We are not the only buyer on the market any 
more. China is now burning more barrels of fuel today than we are, and 
it's going to go up. Look at their automobile consumption. India is 
right behind them.

Now some people say, Well, we don't need fossil fuels. We will use 
wind power and solar power, et cetera. I agree with all those things. 
But our economy is run on power that moves objects. Your product that 
comes and goes, comes on a vessel that is driven by fossil fuels. The 
plane, the train, the ship, and the automobile that delivers to the 
consumer is driven by fossil fuels. There is no quick solution with 
hydrogen, et cetera.

If you want the economy to go forth and you want these small 
businesses to succeed, this Congress, and I ask the Congress on both 
sides to address this issue. Madam Chairman, let's solve the problem. 
Let's not have any more pie in the sky. Let's open these areas that 
have been put on restriction, because the oil is there, Mr. and Mrs. 
America. It's just that you have not asked us to open it. You preferred 
us not doing so as long as we can buy it cheap from a foreign country. 
And those days are over.

Now this is my prediction. Oil now is at $120 a barrel. That means 
gasoline for this summer is going to be around $5 a gallon. But more 
than that, that means the power to run small businesses will not be 
available because we


have not kept up the power in other areas. We don't develop the 
nuclear, which we should. We haven't had any hydro, which we should. 
Yes, we have a little bit of wind and solar. But more than that, we 
have not addressed the fossil fuel issue.

So as we talk about small businesses, how we are going to encourage 
them, we are going to give them incentives, and have new imagination, 
that is well and good, but you can't do it without reasonable price 
power.

So I charge this body, the leadership on that side, and I charge this 
side in the minority, to truly come to grips and address each area that 
has fossil fuels that we know where they are, lift the restrictions, 
and develop it for the future of this Nation, the youth of this Nation, 
and the businesses of this Nation. If we don't do that, we are 
neglectful of our duty.