# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `eb9a1c254de8f54e9db9ba5df35db9e9`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida â€” 24 January 2008`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, I, as the Senator from 
Wisconsin, my colleague, have had difficulty as we sit side by side in 
the Intelligence Committee with the issue of immunity.

First of all, I want to say that I think the intelligence community, 
headed by Admiral McConnell, is doing an excellent job. They are 
correcting colossal mistakes. We had a colossal mistake on intelligence 
on September 11. We had another colossal mistake of intelligence 
leading up to the Iraq war. And in order for us to protect ourselves, 
we, in fact, have to have information in order to disrupt the plans to 
attack us, to harm the Nation.

So I give credit to Admiral McConnell, the Director of National 
Intelligence. I give credit to General Hayden, the head of the CIA, to 
Steve Kappes, the Deputy Director of the CIA. I think they are doing a 
terrific job.

I compliment the chairman and the vice chairman of our committee, and 
they are within earshot, and I want them to hear how much this Senator 
appreciates their cooperation between each other to work in a 
bipartisan fashion. They are talking right now, so I am not sure they 
are hearing me. I want them to know my personal appreciation for how 
they have taken a bipartisan approach. It is important that we thank 
people for the work they are doing.


This legislation is an attempt to be crafted so that these folks can 
better perform their job but at the same time protecting the precious 
civil liberties Americans have that make us unique from any other 
society on planet Earth. We want to protect those rights of privacy. I 
believe there are protections in this bill that will extend to 
Americans, regardless of their physical location. One of the things we 
amended in the Intelligence Committee was that it doesn't make any 
difference, if an American is here in the United States or if they are 
abroad, if you are going after an American as a target, they ought to 
have to go to the FISA Court to get a court order called a warrant, 
regardless of where that American is, if they are a target of 
surveillance. That is important. It is important to support our 
constitutional protections of privacy and that the Government can't 
come and intrude in our lives. I think we have started off in the right 
direction.

As the Senator from Wisconsin has said, I have a problem with the 
blanket immunity as well. I agree with Admiral McConnell. At the end of 
the day, we have to have the cooperation of the 10 communications 
companies, and they should not have the threat of a spurious lawsuit 
hanging over their heads, thinking they are going to be dragged out in 
public court over time as a means of trying to extract a pound of flesh 
from them. There should be every opportunity and encouragement for the 
telecommunications companies to cooperate with the U.S. Government 
intelligence community for the protection of the country. The bill 
before us does, in fact, give that immunity for any of the surveillance 
that did not have a warrant from the FISA Court from the period of 
September 11, 2001, to January 17, 2007.

The problem I have with that is, I am not sure the telecommunications 
companies were attending to their knitting, as to whether they were 
getting legal orders from the United States Government, not in the 
first year after September 11, not in the second year, perhaps not even 
in the third year after the attack on New York City and the Pentagon 
and the attempt on other facilities in Washington. I am talking about 
this went on for a fourth year and a fifth year. I am not sure that, in 
fact, they had the legal basis to say that the Government, in fact, was 
complying with the law. Of course, I make that judgment, and my 
judgment is based on something I can't say here on the Senate floor, 
because it is not only highly classified; it is highly compartmented. I 
have read the documents. I have a problem with that.

At the end of the day, if it means we have to pass the bill and it 
has immunity in it, I am going to vote for the bill, because it is much 
more important that we go ahead and have a procedure set out by which 
we can try to protect ourselves from the bad guys and at the same time 
protect the civil rights, the right of privacy of our citizens. That is 
contained within the committee bill, and that is the way I voted in 
committee. I voted against the immunity,


but that amendment only got three votes. When it came to passage of the 
final bill, I voted for it, because that is in the interest of the 
country. If that is what I am confronted with here, that is the way I 
am going to vote and support the chairman and vice chairman of our 
committee.

Maybe it doesn't have to be as stark as Senator Feingold has said, 
that it is either immunity or no immunity. Maybe what the issue 
ultimately ought to be is somewhere in between. That is the Feinstein-
Nelson amendment that will be offered later in which it will put a 
review of the telecommunications carriers' actions squarely under the 
jurisdiction of the special Federal court set up to handle these top-
secret matters called the FISA Court. The court would review all 
aspects of the telecommunications carriers' involvement and make a 
decision on immunity based on three criteria. No. 1, if the court 
decided that the telecommunications carrier did not provide the 
assistance as alleged, then, of course, the court would dismiss the 
lawsuit against the company. No. 2, if the assistance was provided, the 
court then would determine whether the documentation sent by the U.S. 
Government to the companies met the requirements of the law and was 
adequate. This law that would have to be met states that a 
telecommunications carrier needs a court order or a written 
certification from the Attorney General that no court order is 
required. It further has to state that all statutory requirements have 
been met. So then this FISA Court, in other words, would, in fact, 
judge that. If the conditions of the statute had been met, then the 
companies would be shielded from the lawsuit and the lawsuit would be 
dismissed.

Or the third criteria the court would look at: If the special Federal 
court, the FISA Court, found there was no certification given to the 
telecommunications company, then the court would examine whether the 
company acted in good faith and with an objectively reasonable belief 
that it was legal. If the court determined that, then the 
immunity would be provided.


That seems to be a way in which the companies would be protected, and 
at the same time we can get to this issue of this third year, fourth 
year, and fifth year that the United States Government is saying this 
is legal without a court order, when, in fact, it seems to me that the 
CEOs of those companies and the general counsels of those companies 
ought to have been jumping up and down saying: Wait a minute. We want 
additional information. The amendment to be offered by the Senator from 
California and me creates a series of three requirements that must be 
met in order for the telecommunications companies to receive immunity. 
It is going to preserve the rights of private citizens to make their 
case in front of a judge without jeopardizing these highly sensitive 
kinds of not only top-secret but compartmented material that need to be 
classified for the protection of the country.

Practically speaking, what is going to happen? We can't pass anything 
around here unless you get 60 votes. That is a huge threshold. As this 
comes before the Senate, I doubt the Feingold amendment is going to get 
60 votes to cut off debate. I doubt the Feinstein amendment is going to 
get 60 votes. That brings us right back to the Intelligence Committee 
bill which is before us right now, in which case, on final passage, I 
am certainly going to vote for that. But there is another opportunity 
to address this specific issue. It is unlikely that the House of 
Representatives is going to pass this legislation with the immunity for 
the companies. Therefore, there will be a huge difference between the 
Senate bill and the House bill, as the clock continues to tick down 
toward the deadline in which agreement is going to have to be reached. 
It seems to me the Feinstein-Nelson approach is a reasonable compromise 
at that point.

I hope in time we are going to be able to pass this, that we will 
pass it before the deadline which, to my knowledge, is in a week or so, 
maybe a week and a half. The majority leader says he is going to keep 
us in all weekend in order to get this passed. If I were he, I would do 
the same. It is so critically important to our country that we pass 
this legislation.

So on we go. Let the legislative process work itself out. Hopefully 
we will get this thing passed.

I yield the floor.