# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `eba40d37883c8e0b87f367e30b7a8c6d`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 28 March 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, a few moments ago the Senator from Idaho 
came to the floor to talk about an amendment he had regarding the 
language in the underlying bill covering veterans and he described it 
as ''too prescriptive.'' I think it is imperative that we keep the 
language the way it is written.

For 4 years, the Bush administration has conducted this war with very 
little regard for the tremendous strain it is putting on the VA and it 
is putting on veterans and their families. Last month we saw this 
horrible reality exposed at Walter Reed. So today, in this supplemental 
bill, we are helping to put an end to that neglect. We are not going to 
wait for the President to fix these problems. We have waited too long. 
We are facing the cost of war in the supplemental, and we are putting 
the money where it is needed.

This supplemental does include $1.7 billion for veterans health 
funding. We put this money in because this administration has fallen 
short in meeting the needs of our returning veterans. The supplemental 
does direct the VA to prescriptively put in $50 million for new 
polytrauma centers, as we have learned of the traumatic brain injury 
impact to many soldiers and their families. It does direct $100 million 
for mental health care, because we know more than a third of our 
soldiers who are returning home are suffering from post-traumatic 
stress syndrome and too often are being turned away for care. It does 
include $201 million to treat these recently returning veterans, 
because we know they are waiting in line and cannot get their benefits, 
and too many of them today are ending up homeless simply because they 
can't get the check they need to be able to pay for basic costs for 
themselves.

It does include $30 million for research on the best prosthetics for 
amputees. We were at the VA hearing a few days ago and heard from a 
wonderful woman, Tammy Duckworth, talking about our veterans today who 
are coming back who need prosthetics, not just to be able to walk but 
to be able to ski or to be able to rock climb. Those are the kinds of 
prosthetics that take a great deal of training. We want to make sure 
those young men and women who are coming back today who have lost limbs 
have the best prosthetics available for what they need in their lives. 
It does include $870 million to fix those problems that were uncovered 
at the VA facilities across the country, not just at Walter Reed, but 
for tiles falling off ceilings, bats that haven't been eliminated in 
Oregon, facilities that have peeling paint at care facilities that 
would not be accepted by any of us in this country. It does include $46 
million to hire new claims processors so our veterans don't have to 
wait for their benefits.

Why are we being so prescriptive? Well, we are here today because we 
have seen the VA not spend the dollars wisely, to move the dollars 
around in different accounts to cover the lack of funding they have 
needed, and we are going to make sure in this bill we take care of the 
needs we have heard so vividly about from so many men and women who 
have returned from Iraq and Afghanistan and around the globe, and who 
are facing long lines, who aren't getting the mental health care they 
need, who need access to care for traumatic brain injuries, the 
signature injury of this war, and we are going to make sure we hold 
this administration accountable by finally being prescriptive so it is 
spent wisely.

I reject the Senator from Idaho's arguments on our amendment, and I 
think we have wisely held the administration and ourselves accountable 
to make sure the men and women who have served us so well are treated 
with respect when they come home.

Mr. President, we have a number of amendments we are going to go 
through at this time. I believe we are ready to accept them. I ask 
unanimous consent to set aside the pending amendment.