# CONSOLIDATED SECURITY, DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `ec0560fe387c5193524b86009da4d6bb`
`Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD â€” 28 September 2008`

---


Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 
2638, The Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing 
Appropriations Act. This bill makes critical investments in America to 
provide we have the necessary resources to secure our nation, to 
prepare and respond to natural disasters, and to maintain the 
uninterrupted flow of important government services and functions.

This continuing resolution includes three annual appropriations bills 
to operate important security programs in the departments of Defense, 
Homeland Security, and Veterans Administration. With the nation engaged 
in military conflict both in Afghanistan and Iraq, it is important that 
Congress provide the necessary investments in the Defense Department 
for the American men and women engaged in both battles. As a step-
mother of a uniformed soldier and a wife to a former Marine, I am 
particularly pleased with the increased investment of $28.4 million 
over current funding; among other important items for our troops this 
will address equipment shortfalls, supply quality training, and provide 
top of the line medical care to our troops.

The bill increases our investment in Homeland Security by $2.3 
billion over 2008 levels. Most of this increase is in the area of 
grants to states and localities for much needed security programs such 
as those for urban areas, states, transit systems, fire, interoperable 
communications and emergency management performance. Key programs in 
customs and border protection and the Transportation Security 
Administration which monitor and safeguard our borders, trade and 
transport systems will also receive increases.

The bill also makes investments in veterans' programs and in military 
construction, providing a $9 billion increase in funding. We all 
appreciate and honor the service and sacrifice of our veterans, and 
these investments will fund increases for medical care and will improve 
access to medical services for all veterans. It also continues a 
critically needed quality of life initiative to improve living 
conditions for training soldiers and marines and to upgrade substandard 
medical treatment facilities.

In addition to these three regular appropriations bills, our 
legislation addresses important emergency needs. With hurricanes in the 
gulf coast, floods in the Midwest, and wildfires in the west, America 
has experienced another year of dramatic weather-related disasters. Our 
bill makes a $22.9 billion investment to not only respond to these 
specific events but also to ensure our preparation and readiness for 
future emergencies. These funds will help rebuild damaged highways, 
levees and other public infrastructure; help communities revitalize 
their damaged economies; and provide important social services to 
affected residents.

Of course, it is equally important that we take the opportunity of 
this continuing resolution to address certain important domestic needs. 
Accordingly, this bill makes several important investments to directly 
benefit hardworking families, as well as strengthen the American 
economy. These investments include the following increases over current 
funding:

$1 billion for Nutrition for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) to 
provide mothers and their children with proper nutrition to cover 
increased costs as more families struggle with the economic downturn 
and rising food costs;

$23.5 million for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program to prevent 
nearly 70,000 low-income women, infants, children, and elderly 
citizens, from losing access to food;

$2.5 billion for the Home Energy Assistance (LIHEAP) to help families 
pay rising home energy bills, assisting an additional 2 million 
households and raising the average grant from $355 to $550;

$2.5 billion for Pell Grants to prevent cuts to student aid midway 
through the school year;

$2.9 billion to help the Census Bureau to ramp up operations for the 
2010 Census; and

$7.5 billion to support $25 billion in loans to help American 
automakers retool their factories to build more fuel-efficient 
vehicles.

While I am pleased the continuing resolution addresses these 
important issues, I am disappointed that it does not include another 
important matter--an extension of the drilling ban on the outer 
continental shelf. Although an extension of the ban had become routine 
in the annual appropriations bills, the current energy crisis has made 
that impossible this year. I trust congressional leaders in the next 
Congress will reach an agreement that addresses our energy needs while 
still providing continued environmental safeguards for our coastlines 
and coastal communities.

Mr. Speaker, my constituents are not happy that once again Congress 
has had to resort to a continuing resolution to fund the operations of 
the government. Unfortunately, the Congress was left with no choice but 
to proceed in this fashion when the President threatened to veto 
domestic spending bills that exceed his inadequate requests. Re-
investing in America and in American families is the new Majority's 
priority; however, it clearly is not the priority of the Administration 
as evidenced by the President's budget request. Rather than engage 
president renown for his inflexibility, the new Majority has opted to 
work with the next administration to fund these important programs.



I urge my colleagues to support this bill to secure our nation, 
invest in America, and respond and prepare for disasters.
