# NATIONAL MILITARY APPRECIATION MONTH
## `ec36ef6e9639b8da8304c71a06dadd43`
`Mrs. BOXER â€” 20 May 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I am proud today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in recognizing the National Military Appreciation Month. As a 
cosponsor of the bill that designated May as the National Military 
Appreciation Month in 1999, I ask my colleagues and fellow Americans to 
honor, remember, and thank the generations of American military 
personnel and their loved ones, whose sacrifices have brought us the 
liberties that we enjoy today.

This May, the National Military Appreciation Month acknowledges a 
number of important milestones that highlight the best traditions of 
our Nation's military history: Loyalty Day, May 1, VE Day, May 8, 
Military Spouse Appreciation Day, May 9, Armed Forces Day, May 17, and 
Memorial Day, May 26. These special dates during National Military 
Appreciation Month provide reminders of the invaluable contributions 
that our military personnel and their loved ones have made throughout 
the course of our Nation's history. Every man and woman who has worn 
the uniforms of our armed services, and every person who has supported 
their endeavors deserves our gratitude and respect. Their contributions 
continue to protect and promote the values that define the United 
States.

During this month of remembrance, I am continuing my work to ensure 
that our servicemembers and veterans receive the honor and care they 
rightly deserve, and that those serving in war can return home soon.

In the Senate, I am working for concurrent receipt for our retired 
military personnel so that disabled veterans can receive the benefits 
they deserve. With Senators Lieberman, Bond, and Obama, I have also 
championed efforts to improve mental health care and services for 
Active Duty military and veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
I proudly support Senator Jim Webb's new GI bill, S. 22, to vastly 
improve educational benefits for our newest generation of 
servicemembers and veterans. We must all remain committed to ensuring 
that our military members, veterans, and their families are taken care 
of.

As Americans from across the Nation pay tribute to our military this 
month, I offer my appreciation and admiration for all the men and women 
who have contributed to the history and traditions of the U.S. Armed 
Forces.
