# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `ec47a7d649d5bcf4e765b6a90d415aab`
`Mr. REID â€” 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I am going to shortly suggest the absence of 
a quorum again. I want to tell everybody, it is going to take us a 
little while to figure out where we go next. I need to meet with 
Senator McConnell, Senator Byrd, and Senator Cochran. This is not an 
easy proposition. We have cloture in the morning. As we have heard from 
both sides, this is a very important bill and we have to move as 
quickly as we can. Well over 100 amendments have been filed on this 
bill. That is going to throw a monkey wrench into things. Senator 
McConnell has worked in good faith for us to get to the point where we 
are today. I hope I have done the same. I represented to Senator 
McConnell we could have a vote on the Iraq bill, and we have done that. 
I represented to Senator McConnell we could have a vote on the minimum 
wage, and we almost have that worked out. I represented to Senator 
McConnell there were certain amendments a couple of his Senators wanted 
to offer and we were going to work that out, and I think we have done 
that.

There is something that is wanted on both sides, very important to 
Senator Wyden and Senator Smith, Senator Bingaman and Senator Baucus, 
and others. We are at a point where we can resolve that.

Beyond that, it is a legislative mess. Standing here in the well, I 
have had five Senators come up to me and say they had emergency things 
they needed done. I asked each of them: Is it in the supplemental? No.

It makes it tough to try to be everything to everybody. We need a 
little time to see what we can do to work through this. I want to be as 
fair as we can, but this is an unusual piece of legislation. We have a 
cloture vote in the morning. The staff will work during the night to 
find out which of the amendments that have been filed either are 
germane or appear to be germane or are not.

We will not have a vote in the near future. It will be a little 
while. I would say it will probably take us at least 15 minutes before 
we know where we are going. We have Senator Cochran, Senator Byrd, who 
are as experienced as anyone could be on this most important bill. We 
will do our best to give everyone an idea of where we are headed.