# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `eca867a344b6998abf6247812c78eaa2`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida â€” 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I would like to offer a personal 
explanation of the reason I missed rollcall Nos. 367 through 374 on May 
17, 2007. I was down in my district attending the funeral of Staff Sgt. 
Timothy P. Padgett.

If present, I would have voted: rollcall vote No. 367, Tierney 
Amendment on Defense Authorization to reduce the $8.1 billion specified 
for Missile Defense Agency activities by $1.084 billion from specified 
programs, ''no''; rollcall vote No. 368, Franks Amendment on Defense 
Authorization to increase by $764 million the amount authorized for 
ballistic missile defense, ''aye''; rollcall vote No. 369, King 
Amendment on Defense Authorization to clarify that neither the bill nor 
any other provision of law shall prevent the U.S. government from 
establishing temporary military installations or bases by entering into 
a basing rights agreement with the government of Iraq, ''aye''; 
rollcall vote No. 370, Moran Amendment on Defense Authorization to 
require the Secretary of Defense to submit a report that contains a 
plan for the transfer of every enemy combatant at Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, ''no''; rollcall vote No. 371, Holt Amendment on 
Defense Authorization to require the videotaping of interrogations and 
other pertinent interactions between military personnel and/or 
contractors and detainees, ''no''.