# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `ecda2ee39d20e830bb3ba7f0b6377f49`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. WARNER. I thank the Senator for correcting me. In the year 2009, 
it is $18.9 billion. That is over a 100-percent increase, keeping up 
with inflation, keeping up with added expenses. But that is not the 
case with the existing GI bill. Although there has been a CPI 
adjustment, it doesn't compare to how Congress has treated the 
category, a well-deserving category, of the Pell grants. So this is 
essentially what we are trying to do.

My colleagues, the three of us, have worked together on the question 
of transferability. I wish to go back and acquaint the Senate with some 
history. I was chairman in 2001 of the Armed Services Committee, and I 
worked with a distinguished former colleague, Senator Max Cleland. He 
introduced, along with myself, on May 23, 2001, an amendment on the 
ability of a service person, after stipulating periods of time, to have 
some transferability to his family. The cosponsors, at that time, of 
the original amendment were Senators Bingaman, Dayton, Kennedy, Levin, 
and myself. I was the only Republican. There were several other 
Senators, four more. I was the only Republican who stepped up at that 
time. Later it became a bipartisan effort. In the evolution of events 
that year, we marked it up. But here is the interesting thing. On June 
28, 2001, in the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, at a full 
committee hearing, there was no markup or no action taken on the bill. 
So then we decided, on the Armed Services Committee, we would act. In 
September of 2001, our bill was accepted by the full Senate and became 
law on December 28, 2001.

I pay my respect to those who formulated the concept of 
transferability originally in the Senate. It is the law today. I will 
send to the desk later today an amendment, which Senator Webb, Senator 
Hagel, and I worked on. We are joined by two other original cosponsors, 
Senator Levin, current chairman of the Armed Services Committee, and 
Senator Akaka, current chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee. 
This amendment will be filed at the desk this afternoon. We are going 
to make a technical adjustment to it. The purpose of this amendment is 
to provide a 2-year pilot program of transferability. We track as 
closely as possible the original law I recited that was enacted on 
December 28, 2001. The details will be provided to the full Senate when 
we file the amendment.

Essentially, we are asking an individual to complete his or her first 
4-year term of enlistment and then, if they enlist for another 6 years, 
there is a vesting over a period of time of the


full transferability of their benefits, as a sequence of time, to their 
family.

In the letter from the Secretary of Defense to the Senate, which 
talked about the need for transferability--and I am not sure at that 
time whether he was referring to the existing law or a new law--he 
said: ''Transferability supports military families, thereby enhancing 
retention.''

There it is. We are meeting the Secretary of Defense's letter to the 
Senate expressing the need for this transferability.

In my career, winding up 30 years in the Senate, I can't think of a 
piece of legislation in which I have had a greater emotional 
involvement. I am so pleased to share it with my good friend, the 
junior Senator from Virginia, and my friend from Nebraska. As I said 
when we first began to debate this bill, with a deep sense of humility, 
it is highly unlikely I would have ever achieved the opportunity to 
come to the Senate had it not been for the GI bill given to me by the 
United States in return for modest service in the last year of World 
War II and then a second period of active duty service during the 
Korean War, this time in the Marine Corps. I feel it so strongly in my 
heart. I don't know of any time I have felt more strongly the need to 
do something than this today.

Through the years, I have been to Iraq many times, Afghanistan. 
Throughout the intervening period, I visited military bases and spent 
as much time as I could with the men and women of the Armed Forces 
today. Each of us does the same thing, works with our military. On 
Monday, I was privileged to go into the State that Senator Webb and I 
are privileged to represent. We worked together to get funding in years 
past--and he is supporting it today--to build a new armory for the 
National Guard in Virginia, a famous regiment that fought in World War 
I and World War II. Members of that regiment were the first to go in on 
D-Day. They fought subsequently. I felt at that time that we are doing 
the right thing with this bill, taking care of those future guardsmen 
and reservists and active-duty individuals. This is the right thing for 
the Senate to do.

I understand there are honest differences of viewpoints and 
approaches. That is true with all legislation. Other colleagues have 
put in a different bill. It had a section on transferability. In some 
ways, it tracked what is existing law but not in the way we are doing 
this. This amendment, this bill, if amended, will bring forward 
existing law, incorporate it into the underlying amendment sponsored by 
Senator Webb and ourselves, and that will become, hopefully, at some 
point in time the new law that will govern future benefits of our GIs 
and sailors, airmen and marines. We file it today because I do not know 
exactly how this supplemental will go through. I don't know if there 
will be a window of opportunity put on it. If there is, we will 
exercise that opportunity. But if it is not, we are going to, as a 
team, bring it to the attention of the Armed Services Committee in the 
context of the annual authorization bill, which I presume will be done 
just before the Fourth of July recess.

We will affix to it that bill so it will eventually be amending the 
underlying bill, which I hope becomes law very soon as a component of 
the supplemental process now being undertaken by the Senate and the 
House.

Again, I salute my colleague from Virginia and my colleague from 
Nebraska. We have been here together. We have shared many opportunities 
to do something such as this together but none as important as this 
one.

I yield the floor.