# None
## `ed12b65813150fe8439ef24da0cc8e9c`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 29 October 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join 
me supporting H.


Res. 740, which I introduced, together with my good friend and 
distinguished colleague, Mr. Chabot. This bipartisan legislation 
condemns, in the strongest terms, the attacks on African Union 
peacekeepers that occurred in Haskanita, Darfur, Sudan, on September 
29, 2007

I would like to thank the Chairman and the Ranking Member of the Full 
Committee, Mr. Lantos and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, and of the subcommittee on 
Africa and Global Health, Mr. Payne and Mr. Smith, for their support 
and co-sponsorship of this important bill. Let me also thank my 55 
colleagues who co-sponsored this legislation.

Since 2003, we have witnessed a systematic campaign of displacement, 
starvation, rape, mass murder, and terror in the western Sudanese 
region of Darfur. In the worst humanitarian crisis of our time, an 
estimated 400,000 people have been killed in Darfur by the Government 
of Sudan and its Janjaweed allies. An additional 2,000,000 people have 
been displaced from their homes and livelihoods. Both the House of 
Representatives and the Senate declared that the atrocities in Darfur 
constitute genocide in July 2004, and the Bush administration reached 
the same conclusion in September 2004.

However, three years later, the situation in Darfur continues to 
deteriorate. The United Nations reported a substantial decline in the 
humanitarian situation during the first three months of 2007, during 
which time 21 humanitarian vehicles were hijacked, 15 additional 
vehicles were looted, and gunmen raided 6 humanitarian compounds. The 
security situation makes it extremely difficult for aid organizations 
to reach vulnerable populations, and, in the 12 months preceding April 
2007, the number of humanitarian relief workers in Darfur decreased by 
16 percent, largely due to security concerns, restrictions on access, 
and funding limitations. The flow of humanitarian aid has been severely 
threatened by the escalating violence in the region.

Since 2004, a small contingent of African Union peacekeepers have 
been deployed to Darfur, responsible for maintaining security in a 
region roughly the size of France. The 7,000 peacekeepers under the 
banner of the African Union Mission in Sudan, or AMIS, have displayed 
exemplary courage and resilience, but they are woefully outmanned and 
outgunned, as well as chronically short of funding. Recognizing the 
near-collapse of the AU Mission, the United Nations, in July 
2007, approved a UN-AU hybrid peacekeeping mission, to be known as 
UNAMID, which is meant to take over from AMIS shortly.


The AMIS peacekeeping mission recently encountered yet another 
significant setback. On September 29, 2007, an estimated 1,000 members 
of a heavily armed Darfur rebel group, in 30 vehicles armed with heavy 
artillery and mortars, overran a small base in Haskanita, Darfur, 
Sudan, which was occupied by AMIS peacekeepers. The ambush resulted in 
several hours of intense fighting that killed ten peacekeepers--seven 
Nigerian peacekeepers and three other soldiers from Mali, Senegal, and 
Botswana--and wounded many others.

According to U.N. estimates, in the aftermath of this brutal attack, 
which was described by the African Union commander as ''deliberate and 
sustained,'' 15,000 civilians fled the area to neighboring towns or the 
wilderness, fearing for their safety. This attack is considered to be 
the worst on AMIS peacekeepers since their deployment in July 2004. The 
United Nations Security Council condemned this ''murderous attack'' on 
AMIS peacekeepers, and demanded that ''no effort be spared'' to 
identify and bring to justice the perpetrators of this assault.

Only recently, during the August recess, I had the opportunity to 
lead a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to Darfur. This was the first 
CODEL to the region since the announcement of the joint UN/AU 
peacekeeping force. Along with my colleagues Mr. Chabot, who joins me 
as the lead Republican cosponsor of this legislation, and Mr. Smith, I 
had the opportunity to meet with government officials, civil society 
leaders, international aid workers, and affected civilians, as well as 
with the African Union peacekeepers responsible for protecting Darfur. 
I saw first hand the immense suffering of the people of Darfur, as well 
as the enormous strain on the courageous but outnumbered AU 
peacekeepers.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly condemn recent attacks on African Union 
peacekeepers. This legislation also expresses the condolences of this 
House to the people and Governments of Nigeria, Mali, Senegal, and 
Botswana, the families and friends of those individuals who were killed 
or missing in the attacks, and expresses its sympathies to those 
individuals who have been injured. It expresses the solidarity of the 
people and Government of the United States with the African Union and 
the African Union peacekeepers as they recover from these attacks, and 
the readiness of Congress to support efforts to bring to justice those 
individuals responsible for the attacks and efforts to detect, pursue, 
disrupt, and dismantle the networks that plan and carry out such 
attacks.


This legislation also looks forward, to the process of bringing about 
a peace settlement for Darfur. Crucial though effective peacekeeping 
forces are, they are no substitute for a serious and sustained peace 
process. Consequently, this bill also expresses its support for the 
people of Darfur, Sudan, in their continued struggle against extremism 
and violence and support for their efforts to secure a permanent peace, 
justice, and return to their restored villages and homes, and it 
encourages all parties involved in the conflict to commit to negotiate 
a fmal and binding peace agreement at the peace talks, which began on 
October 27, 2007, in Tripoli, Libya.

Early reports from these negotiations have not been promising. With 
key rebel groups boycotting the peace talks, media reports indicate 
that mediators will now have to travel to Darfur to meet with rebel 
leaders before actual peace agreements can be reached. Despite these 
setbacks, U.N. Special Envoy Jan Eliasson has maintained optimism, 
saying yesterday ''I refuse to state that the peace process is 
interrupted.''

Mr. Speaker, as United States foreign policy remains centered on the 
highly partisan debate over Iraq, we cannot allow Darfur to slip 
through the cracks. I thank the over 40 of my colleagues who have 
joined me in cosponsoring this important resolution, which reiterates 
that attacks on African Union peacekeepers in Darfur are unacceptable. 
Despite the setbacks experienced at this weekend's peace talks in 
Libya, I believe it is important that we condemn the attacks of recent 
weeks, and look forward to the construction of a lasting peace for 
Darfur.

I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
legislation.