# BARRING ACCESS OF LONG-HAUL MEXICAN TRUCKS
## `ed59e52336a06df6506dc964f5bbf088`
`Mr. OBERSTAR â€” 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 6630. 
This is a bill with a simple purpose: to require a cross-border 
trucking pilot program initiated by the Department of Transportation 
(''DOT'') on September 6, 2007, to terminate immediately, and to force 
the Administration to stay true to its word that this program remain a 
short-term, limited experiment.

In February of last year, the Secretary of Transportation first 
announced her intent to launch a pilot program to allow up to 100 
Mexico-domiciled motor carriers to operate beyond the commercial zones 
at the U.S.-Mexico border. The Secretary assured Congress and the 
American people that this pilot program would last one year. The 
Secretary made this pledge at news conferences and multiple 
Congressional hearings. DOT further cemented this commitment by 
publishing the details of a one-year pilot program in three separate 
Federal Register notices.

The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure ordered H.R. 6630 
reported in July in anticipation of the one-year mark, which occurred a 
few days ago. We considered this bill, which statutorily requires the 
Secretary to shut the program down after one year, because we had no 
reason to believe that the


Administration would terminate the pilot program and revoke the 
authority of participating carriers--unless compelled to do so by 
Congress.

We were right. On August 4, 2008, on the first day of the 
Congressional recess, DOT announced that it would extend the program 
for an additional two years, through 2010.

Since last February, I have expressed my strong concerns over whether 
safety on U.S. roads would be adversely impacted and whether DOT was 
ready to enforce all Federal motor carrier laws and regulations. I have 
also expressed my amazement with the careless way that the 
Administration has violated the will of Congress and the spirit of the 
law over the last 18 months.

Today, I repeat these sentiments and say enough is enough. It is time 
for DOT to be held accountable for its actions and made to keep its own 
promises.

The House has already voiced strong, bipartisan opposition to the 
implementation of this pilot program in three separate pieces of 
legislation, each of which DOT has strongly opposed:

The House passed H.R. 1773, the Safe American Roads Act of 2007, on 
May 15 by a vote of 411-3.

On May 25, 2007, the House passed the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans 
Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 
2007 (P.L. 110-28), which was signed by the President, and which 
included a number of safety prerequisites regarding the proposed pilot 
program. DOT glossed over these requirements and moved ahead without 
fully taking them into account.

On July 24, 2007, the House passed the FY 2008 Transportation, 
Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill 
(H.R. 3074) with a provision to bar DOT from using any funds to 
implement its proposed pilot program. A similar provision was included 
in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008 (P.L. 110-161), approved 
by the House on December 17, 2007. DOT found a technical ''out'' to 
avoid compliance with this provision.

DOT pushed past Congressional concerns in establishing this program. 
The Department has pushed on despite strong opposition to extend the 
program, and they will continue to push on. Carriers participating in 
the pilot program have been granted provisional operating authority for 
18 months, after which DOT could allow the authority to become 
permanent.

Without further Congressional action, this ''experiment'' will turn 
into what opponents of this program have feared all along--a sea change 
in surface transportation policy.

To date, participation in the pilot program has been underwhelming. 
According to Federal Motor Carrier Safety Association (''FMCSA'') data, 
27 Mexican carriers operating 107 trucks and 10 U.S. carriers operating 
55 trucks are participating in the pilot program. Pilot program 
participants from Mexico crossed into the United States 9,776 times. 
Only 1,337 of these crossings, or 14 percent, resulted in carriers 
traveling beyond the border zones.

To accommodate a small fraction of trips taken by these 37 carriers, 
the Federal Government has spent more than $500 million since 1995 to 
prepare for opening of the U.S.-Mexico border to motor carrier traffic.

This is more than the entire FMCSA budget for all Federal motor 
carrier safety programs in all 50 States for FY 2008.

While spending thousands of hours of staff resources to implement the 
Administration's cross-border operations, FMCSA has yet to finalize 14 
Congressionally mandated rulemakings--some of which have been pending 
since {999--on critical motor carrier safety issues such as medical 
certification of drivers, commercial drivers license testing standards, 
hours of service, and revocation of operating authority from a carrier 
with a pattern of safety violations. Several reports are also overdue--
including a report on whistleblower protections required in 1998.

There is nothing in the North American Free Trade Agreement, or any 
other trade agreement, that abrogates the authority of Congress to 
exercise its power under the Constitution to change domestic law. It is 
time for Congress to reclaim its ability to have some bearing on the 
obligations contained in the surface transportation provisions of 
NAFTA.

I thank the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, Mr. 
DeFazio, for introducing the bill, and Ranking Member Mica and 
Subcommittee Ranking Member Duncan for joining with us in this effort.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 6630.