# ECONOMIC BAILOUT
## `ed8f6db2f9eeef374ae117b2ce10358a`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 22 September 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. I thank the Senator from Virginia.

There are so many questions that have been raised by this proposal 
from the administration. I have to say at the outset, for those of us 
who have been here a number of years, this has an eerie resemblance to 
something I have seen before. It was on the floor of this Senate 6 
years ago when we were told by this administration in October, before 
an election, that we had to give to the President of the United States 
the authority to invade Iraq. Oh, he did not say he was going to do it. 
He just needed the authority to invade Iraq because of weapons of mass 
destruction.

Of course, the pressure was building on Members of Congress: Do 
something. Saddam Hussein may have nuclear weapons. Condoleezza Rice 
talked about mushroom-shaped clouds. It was in that environment and 
atmosphere that the President said: Give me the authority; I will make 
the decision about whether we should invade Iraq.

The pressure was on. Some of us were up for reelection at the time. I 
can recall going to editorial boards in Chicago, and I can tell you, I 
lost their endorsements because I said there is something that concerns 
me about this. We are delegating so much power to this President. It is 
far easier to get in a war than it is to get out of one.

Here we are 6 years later. We are still in it. Mr. President, 4,183-
plus American lives have been given in this conflict, 20,000, 30,000 
have returned with serious wounds and injuries--amputations, paralysis, 
traumatic brain injury. I cannot tell you how much money we have spent 
there. It is almost as much as the President is asking now for the 
banks, maybe more.

We are being told again, as we approach another election: Give the 
authority to the administration, to the President, and step aside; in 
their wisdom, they will handle it. I worry about that. As I said, I 
respect Henry Paulson. I really do. I do not think he is a politician 
at heart. I think he is a patriot, a citizen who wants to do the best 
for his country. But his actions have to be put in a constitutional 
context. We have the balance of powers in this country because that is 
what America is. It is not because of what this current crop of 
politicians dreamed up. It is what the Founding Fathers said we are all 
about. We do not want to give too much power to any branch of 
Government. We want other branches to be involved.



A proposal is coming from this administration now, a few weeks before 
the election, with ominous clouds gathering over the financial 
institutions of America, and we are being told: Trust us. Trust us to 
give to the Secretary of the Treasury the authority to take $700 
billion and to buy assets in banks without the review of any court or 
any administrative body.

I do not see in here the protections against conflict of interest. 
Why should I worry about conflicts of interest? Have we had any 
conflicts of interest with the war in Iraq? Let me think for a moment. 
Does the word ''Halliburton'' spring to mind, these no-bid contracts 
for billions of dollars that shortchanged our troops and our taxpayers? 
Excuse me if I am cynical and skeptical, but I have seen this movie, 
and I don't like the ending. The taxpayers pay too much money. The 
troops do not get protection. Halliburton gets billions of dollars in 
contracts.

So should I be concerned that there is going to be one person in the 
administration or a handful allocating $700 billion without anybody 
looking over their shoulder? Yes, I am concerned.

Then there is a question about the banks we are going to help. This 
started out about the American economy and American financial 
institutions, and now it has become something larger. At the last 
minute, the Treasury Department said: Oh, we are going to help foreign 
banks too. Really? Foreign banks? I want to know more about that. I 
want to know how much we are going to get into this in terms of these 
foreign banks. A lot of these questions have to be asked and answered 
before any of us in good conscience can vote for this.

But that is the reality of what we face. Just in case people are 
keeping score, things have changed in the United States of America in 
the last several weeks. Some of it was lost on the business pages, and 
some of it most people did not focus on. But I have tried to study it a 
little more closely with this $700 billion request.

To put this into perspective, the debt of the U.S. Government is $5.4 
trillion. In the combined history of the United States of America, all 
of the money we have had to borrow to keep this Government moving over 
and above what we raised in taxes comes to $5.4 trillion. That debt, 
incidentally, has gone up dramatically, a record-breaking pace under 
the Bush administration. We are now facing, this year, a $480 billion 
deficit--I am sorry, I think it is $407 billion, but it will be $480 
billion next year, a record-breaking deficit.

So to put that in perspective, this is our mortgage, America, $5.4 
trillion and growing. It is a mortgage we will pay as long as we are 
alive, and so will our kids and so will their kids. That is the 
starting point. What has happened recently?

Almost 2 weeks ago, the decision was made that we would assume 
liability--the Federal Government would assume the liability, a second 
mortgage, if you will--for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Now, this is a 
government-sponsored entity which basically guarantees 50 percent of 
all the mortgages in America. So now our second mortgage is, we are 
stepping in--not the shareholders of the companies, the taxpayers are 
stepping in to guarantee the solvency of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
There was not much else we could do, I will be honest with you. We 
reached a terrible point where there were not many alternatives.

How much liability is involved in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac? Well, 
it will be easy to remember. It is exactly the same liability as 
America's national debt: $5.4 trillion. The second mortgage on America 
is the same as the first mortgage. Now, don't get me wrong. Behind 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is a lot of property--homes, businesses, 
real estate. So it isn't as if there isn't collateral involved, but we 
are on the hook for $5.4 trillion. That is not the end of the story. 
The story goes on.


We decided that people who have mutual funds--my family has done that 
too--and have taken cash and put it into money market mutual funds--
everybody knows what I am talking about; it is not the CD at the bank 
at the corner where Uncle Sam stands and says: We are going to protect 
you via the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, but it is the money 
market mutual fund where you move money out of your stocks, out of your 
mutual funds, put it into your money market mutual funds because it 
makes a little bit better than what they are paying at the bank. It 
turns out they are in trouble. They are in such trouble now that we are 
going to have to step in for the mutual funds and provide a money 
market guarantee on the mutual funds. OK, we have our national debt and 
we have our secondary mortgage--Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac--$5.4 
trillion more, and now we are stepping in to guarantee money market 
mutual funds. How much could that be? Well, it is much smaller than the 
other two. It is $3.4 trillion. Stay tuned, sharpen your pencil, there 
is more to follow because we are being asked now to come up with $700 
billion to buy illiquid assets. What is that? Something nobody wants to 
buy. We are going to buy them.

Do we have to do this and try to stop the seizure of the credit 
institutions of America? We may have no choice, but I think it is 
reasonable to ask a few questions. Just as we should have asked more 
questions about weapons of mass destruction 6 years ago before we found 
ourselves in this war, we need to ask questions today about where this 
is leading, and we need some protection for the taxpayers of this 
country.

I walked down LaSalle Street on Friday. It is a great street in 
Chicago, lined with banks and big office buildings. A lot of people 
came and said hi, but a lot of them came to me and said: Are you going 
to do this, $700 billion for bailing out these banks? I said: I don't 
know. At the end of the day, I don't know. I want to see what the 
administration comes back with. Right now we have a concept. I want to 
see a proposal.

I thought to myself as I walked along there and had a little press 
conference with a bunch of folks who walked by on the sidewalk 
listening: These are the folks who are going to pay for this idea. 
These are the taxpayers who are going to have to come up with the money 
for this--for all of this. None of these taxpayers got a notice about 
the annual bonus checks at these major companies that are going under. 
They didn't receive any of that. They didn't get a parachute either. 
They are the taxpayers. Unfortunately, it will be a bigger tax bill 
because of this.

What has happened is a fundamental failure of a philosophy that has 
been tested and tried for the last 10 years or so that says the 
Government ought to get out of the way, no questions asked, and don't 
diminish the dynamic aspect of this economy with overregulation. That, 
to me, is something we need to take a second look at.

Incidentally, my staff has told me the national debt is over $10 
trillion. I misspoke on the primary mortgage. I got the wrong figures 
out of the paper today, and I want the record to reflect it: The 
primary mortgage is over $10 trillion, and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
is an additional $5.3 trillion in liabilities, as I said earlier. That 
shows you the amount of debt that is involved.

So the fundamental failure of the philosophy is this belief that 
somehow we, as taxpayers, have a responsibility to rescue but not a 
responsibility to regulate. That is not right. If the full faith and 
credit of the United States of America is going to come to the rescue 
of these private institutions, we have an obligation in Government to 
the taxpayers of this country to ask the hard questions in advance, 
before the disaster arrives. We should have been asking these questions 
a long time ago. We should have asked them about the predatory lending 
practices of major credit institutions. We have had several votes on 
the floor of the Senate on that issue. We should have been asking about 
how this money was being loaned--the circumstances.

I guess there is not much sympathy for people facing foreclosure in 
America today. A lot of us might be inclined to think: These poor 
souls, they should have been a little more careful, until you take the 
time to meet some of them. Some of them got carried away. Don't get me 
wrong. I can't have a lot of sympathy for them. They made big mistakes 
trying to make big money, but some of these folks were conned. They 
signed up for mortgages full of tricks and traps that ended up 
exploding in their faces and now they are going to lose their homes.



At the end of the day, this crisis started with a housing catastrophe 
and disaster and continues because of it. It is up to us now to decide 
what we are going to do about it. We can rescue the folks at the top--
that is what is being proposed--but we need to do a lot more than that. 
I think we need to set up a mechanism for those who are about to lose 
their homes to be protected.

Here is an interesting thing. If you face bankruptcy today and you 
have seven or eight homes and go into the bankruptcy court, they can 
renegotiate the terms of all your mortgages, except one. They cannot 
renegotiate the terms of the mortgage on your home. Why? If they can 
renegotiate the terms on my vacation home, my farm, my ranch, my 
property in some other place, why not my home? There is no good 
explanation. The fact that the bankruptcy court cannot renegotiate 
leads us, sadly, to the point where banking institutions and credit 
lenders and the others are not renegotiating terms. They would rather 
see people fail and face foreclosure. I think we have to do something 
to make sure the bankruptcy courts have that option. I think there 
should be incentives for those lending institutions to try hard to keep 
people in their homes.

Mr. President, 340,000 Americans were foreclosed on in the month of 
August. It is a record-breaking number. Not since the Great Depression 
have we seen that percentage of homeowners facing that kind of 
liability. So we have to keep the taxpayers in mind when we read this 
proposal of the Treasury. We have to keep homeowners in mind, and we 
ought to keep accountability in mind. At the end of the day, there is 
no branch of this Government above the law. When it comes to $700 
billion in taxpayers' dollars and money--and hard-earned money, I might 
add--they are not above the law.

One last point I wish to make. Senator McCain has made a name for 
himself in the Senate, calling himself a leading deregulator. He has 
been opposed to regulation. In fact, he teamed up with Senator Phil 
Gramm of Texas, who was his inspiration for years, and they voted 
together on many issues: to deregulate, get the Government out of the 
economy. Let a thousand flowers bloom. Let's let these forces of 
capitalism go to work. I am not going to diminish the power of the 
entrepreneurial spirit and the forces of capitalism, but they can get 
carried away. We saw it happen with the savings and loan crisis and we 
have seen it happen with the subprime mortgage crisis. We have seen it 
before. It might happen again if we don't learn a lesson.

I am disappointed that Senator McCain in the past took that position. 
I am troubled that, in a recent article in Contingencies magazine, he 
said about our health care market:




 Opening up the health insurance market to more vigorous 


 nationwide competition, as we have done over the last decade 


 in banking, would provide more choices of innovative products 


 less burdened by the worst excesses of State-based 


 regulation.


I don't know when Senator McCain wrote that. It couldn't have been 
recently because I have to tell my colleagues that if he is promising 
for the health insurance market what we now face in the banking market 
after deregulation, God help American families. I couldn't disagree 
more with Senator McCain's position on deregulation when it came to 
banking, and now his position on deregulation when it comes to health 
insurance companies.

If the Government doesn't set the rules, the insurance companies 
will. How would you like to throw yourself on the mercy of that 
insurance company adjuster, when it is your health or the health of one 
of your kids on the line? Insurers compete with one another, trying to 
avoid costly patients and avoid paying for procedures. We hear about it 
almost every day. According to Senator McCain, let a thousand flowers 
bloom. Let the market work. The market works pretty well if you are 
young and healthy or wealthy. It doesn't work very well if you are 
older, have a history of illness, and don't have much of an income. 
That is why we need sensible regulation.

This idea that we are going to move away from employer-based health 
insurance, as Senator McCain has said--well, I am sure there are some 
people who buy into that. Put each one of the customers in America out 
on their own buying health insurance instead of buying through pools 
where they work, and we know what will happen. The sickest people will 
have the toughest time finding insurance and paying for it. That isn't 
how it should work. We learned that, I am afraid, the hard way, and 
Senator McCain is stuck on that. I think he is wrong. I think we need a 
health insurance program in America which gives us all a fighting 
chance. Unfortunately, Senator McCain's approach does not. So we have 
to make sure that when it comes to banking or health insurance, Senator 
McCain's approach is not going to be our approach. This idea of 
deregulation may at one time have had wide subscription, but today it 
does not. We have to move forward with the concept that there is an 
appropriate role for Government--not to go too far but to provide 
enough protection, disclosure, transparency, and accountability to make 
sure we don't find ourselves in the crisis we find today with our 
banking institutions.

I yield the floor.