# COMMUNIST CHINA AND CIFUS: ``DROPPING THE SHARK''
## `edaf6bcd400b111fbab0a367cd52b6ea`
`Mr. McCOTTER â€” 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. Mr. Speaker, to resuscitate the 1970s sitcom ''Happy 
Days,'' Arthur Fonzarelli was aquatically clad in a swimsuit, white T-
shirt and leather jacket and filmed performing a harrowing water ski 
jump over a shark. Though The Fonz pulled it off, the network pulled 
the plug on ''Happy Days.'' Subsequently, inane attempts to prevent a 
show's cancellation by scripting an absurd season have been coined 
''jumping the shark.''

But what should we call situations where the U.S. Government 
willfully suspends its disbelief Communist China is a strategic threat 
and, instead, appeases it? I suggest we call such instances ''dropping 
the shark.''

Mr. Speaker, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States 
must review and block Bain Capital and Communist China's Huawei 
Technologies' deal with the 3Com Corporation. If approved, Communist 
China's Huawei Technologies stake in the 3Com Corporation will gravely 
compromise our free Republic's national security.

The 3Com Corporation is a world leader in intrusion prevention 
technologies designed to prevent secure computer networks from hacker 
infiltration, and our Department of Defense extensively utilizes them. 
These technologies were severely tested this June when Communist China 
hacked into our DOD's computer networks and caused a shutdown. Given 
this and other instances of Communist China's persistent cyberwarfare 
against us, approving this sale would be an abject abnegation of 
CIFUS's duty to protect America's vital defense technologies from enemy 
acquisition.

Few doubt the aims of Communist China's Huawei Technologies, which 
was set up in 1988 by a People's Liberation Army officer to build 
military communications networks. The pending deal with Huawei is 
deemed ''really worrisome'' by a former Pentagon cybersecurity expert, 
and as reported by Bill Gertz in today's Washington Times, a current 
Pentagon official confirmed, ''Huawei is up to its eyeballs with the 
Chinese military''; while another official stated ''we are proposing to 
sell the PLA a key to our front door. This is a very dangerous trend.''

This is not the first time Communist China's Huawei Technologies has 
raised legitimate American concerns. In January 2006 Newsweek described 
Huawei Technologies as ''a little too obsessed with acquiring advanced 
technology.'' Appearing before the House Armed Services Committee on 
September 19, 2002, Professor Gary Milhollin, Director of the Wisconsin 
Project on Nuclear Arms Control, testified as to the extent of the 
danger: ''The history of Huawei shows how sensitive American exports 
can wind up threatening our own Armed Forces. So when we talk about 
export controls, we are not just talking about money. We are talking 
about body bags.''

This is not hyperbole. At the start of this decade, Huawei violated 
U.N. sanctions and illegally provided a fiber-optic network to Iraq. 
This network linked the Iraqi military's air defense network. Moreover, 
the CIA-led Iraq Survey Group's final report concluded Huawei illicitly 
participated in providing transmission switches for Iraq's fiber-optic 
communications. In August


2001, this Chinese-made fiber-optic network was bombed because it was 
part of the Iraqi air defense missile sites firing at U.S. and allied 
aircraft which were enforcing a no-fly zone. And also, for the record, 
this company found time to help the Taliban too.

In other business practices, Huawei appears equally cavalier about 
the rule of law. In 2003, Cisco Systems formally charged Huawei 
Technologies with grievous intellectual property violations, including 
patent infringements. Again, this should be unsurprising, given the 
strong ties between Huawei Technologies, the Communist Chinese 
Government and its armed wing, the People's Liberation Army. Not 
coincidentally, in only two decades, Huawei has expanded to over 100 
countries, amassed sales of over $87 million, and significantly 
contributed to the PLA's arms buildup. Obviously, through this proposed 
acquisition the comrades at Huawei aim to contribute far more.

Mr. Speaker, this deal is not only unacceptable on its face to our 
free people's sensibilities, it endangers our military and our 
security. Therefore, if CIFUS approves this sale and its accompanying 
sensitive defense technologies to Huawei, it will place in Communist 
China's cyberhacking hands some of the most sensitive technologies 
employed for our high-tech defense, and it will be tantamount to CIFUS 
dropping the shark in our fish bowl and pulling the plug on America's 
happy days.

Therefore, I urge CIFUS to do its job and block this deal that 
threatens our liberty, our security and the bounds of sanity itself.
