# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `ee1ccb0063bcf0b323bdf4e606ae9836`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, as we debate the so-called new strategy in 
Iraq, and as we once again engage in more than a little political 
posturing that has become so redundant, that has already delayed 
important legislation, not the least of which was the emergency 
appropriations bill to get proper funding and equipment to our troops, 
it appears once again that some of my colleagues in the Senate feel we 
should retreat, thus abandoning what al-Qaida views as the central 
front in their global war of terror, and in so doing, allowing Iraq to 
become a safe haven for al-Qaida, the same terrorist organization that 
hit this country on September 11, 2001.

I ask my colleagues who want us to abandon this critical fight now, 
if we leave Iraq before the Iraqis can defend and govern themselves, 
then will they answer this question: Will that action strengthen or 
weaken al-Qaida and other foreign jihadists in Iraq and across the 
region? If there is one thing all of us should have learned by now, it 
is that al-Qaida and organizations that emulate it are the face of 
evil. These organizations and the individuals who subscribe to their 
ideology are dedicated to the destruction of the United States, to the 
destruction of Israel, and to committing the most barbaric and 
incomprehensible assaults on innocent civilians that any of us can 
possibly imagine.

Without a stable government in Iraq, it becomes increasingly likely 
that the training and equipping of terrorists and the planning and 
execution of terror operations can proceed in both Iraq and throughout 
the region with impunity, and that our adversaries will operate with 
little fear of discovery or disruption.

I also ask my distinguished colleagues who believe that we ought to 
leave Iraq before it is stable: Will al-Qaida and other terrorists then 
follow us here into the United States, even while expanding their 
influence in the Middle East, Europe, Asia, and Africa? We have already 
seen numerous attacks occur throughout Europe and Africa from al-Qaida-
linked or al-Qaida-inspired terrorists. With a firm foothold in Iraq, 
al-Qaida would have a safe and unthreatened sanctuary to serve as their 
new base of operations from which they can expand further into the 
Middle East or Africa or Europe, spreading chaos, fear, and strife.

How long would it be before al-Qaida is able to continue unabated 
with further attacks against the United States including operations 
into and within our country?

I ask my distinguished colleagues who believe we should retreat and 
surrender before stabilizing Iraq, before


providing them the opportunity to govern and defend themselves: How 
will we address Iran's continued support of Iraqi insurgents and 
terrorists now that we have definitive evidence of their involvement in 
activities such as the training of terrorists and Shiite militias in 
Iran; operations in Iraq by terrorists trained in Iran by Al-Quds and 
other Iranian special military forces; alliances with Hezbollah and 
other groups, including Iranian-trained and equipped Hezbollah fighters 
operating in Iraq; the provision of the explosive formed penetrator and 
other improvised explosive devices that are killing American soldiers, 
sailors, marines, and airmen; and other aid and assistance directly 
resulting in the death of American citizens serving us bravely in Iraq?

We must be especially concerned as Iran spreads its power and 
influence in the region, considering their insistence on developing 
nuclear capabilities. I ask my colleagues who subscribe to this 
proposed policy of retreat and surrender: What will Iran do to expand 
their influence in Iraq through their Shia alliances if we stage an 
immediate withdrawal?

We have seen the impact of Iranian-supported terrorist activity in 
Iraq. Not only have we lost hundreds of American servicemembers due to 
Iranian involvement, not to mention those who still live but live with 
grievous injuries, but scores of Iraqis have died too, including 
innocent civilians who have been the victims of these savage attacks.

I ask my colleagues who believe we ought to retreat and surrender 
regardless of the circumstances on the ground, regardless of the 
ability of the Iraqis to govern and defend themselves: Will Sunni 
majority nations outside of Iraq, including Saudis and others, stand by 
and let Shiites massacre Sunnis in Iraq? Conversely, will Iran, 
Hezbollah, and others stand by when Sunnis then massacre Shiias in 
retaliation? It is clear that this situation could rapidly deteriorate 
into a full-scale civil war, a massive religious conflict or, at worst, 
uncontrolled genocide on both sides.

I ask my distinguished colleagues who believe we ought to withdraw 
from Iraq before that country is able to defend and govern itself: What 
is the resultant impact with the Kurds in northern Iraq and with Turkey 
if we stage an immediate withdrawal?

Cross-border incursions by both PKK elements operating from Kurdish 
safe havens in northern Iraq, and retaliatory attacks by Turkish forces 
could become routine, further destabilizing Iraq, Turkey, and the 
region.

I ask my distinguished colleagues who believe we ought to withdraw 
from Iraq before that country is able to govern and defend itself: What 
will happen to our Iraqi allies who have fought alongside of us? How 
will this affect America's ability to conduct future multinational 
operations?

Some have argued we should have shaped and relied upon a stronger 
coalition before undertaking operations in Iraq. Clearly we lose the 
ability to build such a coalition in the future if we leave our allies 
behind as we precipitously withdraw from Iraq.

I ask my distinguished colleagues who believe we ought to withdraw 
from Iraq before that country is able to govern and defend itself: What 
is the scope of humanitarian and refugee crisis that will ensue if we 
suddenly depart from Iraq? Where and how will the United States address 
that consequent crisis? It was not that long ago we experienced the 
largest scale humanitarian and refugee flow after the first gulf war. 
We were able to eventually deal with that situation through a 
substantial commitment of forces to Joint Task Force Provide Comfort in 
northern Iraq. Under this new scenario, it would be difficult if not 
impossible for us to adequately help the large segments of the Iraqi 
population trying to flee from unrelenting terror when our forces 
suddenly withdraw.

I ask our colleagues who believe we ought to withdraw from Iraq 
before the Iraqis are able to govern and defend themselves: Are the 
Iraqis ready to assume full responsibility and control of their own 
security, economic development, reconstruction, and governance? If not, 
how can we posture the Iraqis for that desired end state, while at the 
same time withdrawing under continued enemy pressure?

Finally, I ask my colleagues on the other side this important 
question: What is your plan? What is your plan for the way forward in 
Iraq and in the region?

Our presence in Iraq is not about pride. It is not, as some have 
suggested, solely to benefit the Iraqis. Instead it is about our own 
vital national security and our ability to address the threats to our 
Nation. Our success is not just about providing the people of Iraq a 
safe environment to develop and provide for their own self-governance, 
it is about America's national security, the stability of the Middle 
East, and our partners in the war on terror.

We have to do what is right for America's national security, which 
means helping to stabilize the Middle East and supporting our partners 
in the war on terror. These 10 concerns have caused me to draft an 
amendment which I believe must be added to this bill. This amendment 
expresses the sense of Congress that ''the Senate should commit itself 
to a strategy that will not leave a failed state in Iraq.'' It also 
states that ''the Senate should not pass legislation that will 
undermine our military's ability to prevent a failed state in Iraq.''

The Iraq Study Group, National Intelligence Estimates, and even the 
New York Times have all repeatedly warned against the consequences of a 
failed state in Iraq. Instability in the region could lead to genocide, 
retaliatory attacks against our allies, invasions from neighboring 
countries, and the proliferation of global terrorism. We cannot allow 
these possibilities to become realities. Withdrawing our troops now or 
on the expedited basis proposed by Senators Reed and Levin, when Iraq 
is not yet able to sustain itself, will only sink the fledgling nation 
into further chaos and disorder while ensuring that either we will 
recommit our troops later to a more tumultuous and dangerous battle or 
that we will leave ourselves open to future attacks from a fortified 
terrorist network.

I urge all my colleagues to reject any notion of a premature troop 
withdrawal and join me in expressing the importance of a stable Iraqi 
nation, not just for the benefit of the people of Iraq but for our own 
national security. We can't talk about ideas such as withdrawing our 
troops without looking at the consequences. I know all of us join in 
believing that we want to get our troops home as soon as we can. The 
only difference between us is those who believe we ought to do so based 
on an arbitrary timetable and those who believe we ought to do so after 
we are able to leave the Iraqis in a position to govern and defend 
themselves, not just, again, for their security and safety but for ours 
as well. Because a failed state in Iraq is a clear and present danger 
to the American people. It would be terrible, indeed, if, having let 
that happen and seeing more Americans die as they did on 9/11 as a 
result of al-Qaida's strength and its ability to recruit, train, and 
then export terrorist attacks to the United States and around the 
world, that more people in this country and other countries around the 
world had to die. That is at stake.

If we are going to talk about ideas such as those proposed in the 
Reed-Levin and other amendments, we need to confront directly the 
consequences of our actions. This amendment expresses the sense of the 
Senate that we will take no action that will make it more likely that 
Iraq will end up a failed state, again, in the national security 
interest of the United States.

I yield the floor.