# HONORING MANCINI'S CHAR HOUSE ON THE OCCASION OF ITS 60TH ANNIVERSARY
## `ee6129211cc98220ebc34a7cb03dcb17`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota â€” 20 November 2008`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Madam Speaker, it is my great pleasure to 
rise to pay tribute to the Mancini family and all employees of 
Mancini's Char House and Lounge in Saint Paul in honor of their 60th 
anniversary year. Mancini's restaurant has earned a legendary 
reputation for hospitality, serving a gathering place for generations 
of Saint Paul families, friends, as well as quite a few local and 
national sports stars and celebrities. Anybody who comes to Mancini's 
looks forward to having a great meal and a special occasion.

It all began with Nick Mancini, who opened his first small tavern on 
Saint Paul's West 7th


Street in 1948, with strong support from his family--especially his 
mother's famous spaghetti. It was not long until Nick met his wife 
Maryann, who was with him every step of the way, until he passed away 
in 2007.

Throughout his entire life, Nick's generous and friendly presence 
personified Saint Paul hospitality. Nick's greatest pleasure was 
greeting his customers and making them feel at home. Nick also 
delighted in serenading diners with his beautiful accordian music. 
Nick's sons Pat and John now own the restaurant, continuing the 
tradition of hospitality with the help of the whole family, including 
their mother, children and Nick's sister Bertha. Their many loyal 
employees feel like they are part of the family.

Hospitality was the cornerstone of Nick's business success, growing 
through the years from a tiny bar to a 600-seat steakhouse. Mancini's 
has been a crossroads of who's who in sports, Hollywood and politics. 
Nick's son John estimates that 300 photographs of notable patrons line 
the walls of the lounge. Mancini's 1986 major expansion even attracted 
the attention of singer Tony Bennett, who lent his voice and star power 
to the celebration.

Despite Mancini's great success, the family restaurant has remained 
focused on its neighborhood roots. Among their most loyal customers are 
the families who grew up with Nick and his family. Mancini's Sports 
Hall of Fame pays tribute to nearly 150 Saint Paul athletes who are 
leaders in teaching, coaching or supporting amateur or professional 
athletics in Saint Paul.

Hospitality continues to be the biggest draw at Mancini's--but their 
fantastic steaks don't hurt either. In recent years, their famous 12-
ounce Mancini's sirloins have been enjoyed worldwide. Through an 
ambitious effort called ''Serving Our Troops,'' Mancini's has partnered 
with several other family-owned Saint Paul restaurants, other local 
businesses and hundreds of volunteers to stage several major picnics 
for Minnesota National Guard troops and their families. Since 2004, 
they have donated their time and thousands of steaks to bring Saint 
Paul hospitality to troops and their families in Mississippi, Oklahoma, 
Kosovo and Iraq. ''Serving Our Troops'' truly speaks to the community 
spirit and hospitality epitomized by the Mancini family. Many people 
talk about supporting our military families, but the Mancini family has 
gone above and beyond the call of duty in sharing Saint Paul 
hospitality.

Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring the Mancini family and all 
employees of Mancini's Char House and Lounge on the first 60 years of a 
remarkable Saint Paul institution. We look forward to many more.
