# IRAQ
## `eed9fc1c988c73a9a72d3b1c0bd4eef2`
`Mr. ROBERTS â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROBERTS. I thank the Presiding Officer.

Mr. President, some weeks ago--and I mentioned this in my remarks 
during the debate we were having on the resolutions with regard to Iraq 
and the war--I said several weeks ago I had the privilege of attending 
and speaking at a farewell dinner in honor of LTG David Petraeus and 
his wife Holly at the Command and General Staff College of the United 
States Army at Fort Leavenworth, KS. And, of course, now General 
Petraeus is in Iraq and involved in the new mission as prescribed by 
the President and the subject of great debate not only here but in the 
House of Representatives, which is voting as I speak on their 
resolution in regard to this matter.

It was quite an evening of tribute in behalf of the general who has 
become admired and beloved serving as commanding general of the Army's 
Intellectual Center in Leavenworth, KS. Throughout the evening I had 
the opportunity to again visit with David Petraeus, his feelings about 
his new mission, his impressive knowledge with regard to this most 
difficult war in Iraq, the history of the region, his understanding 
with regard to the nature of past wars, his understanding of insurgency 
in past wars and the insurgency we now face in Iraq.

While at the Command and General Staff College, he wrote the Army's 
new manual on counterterrorism. Let me say, as a former marine, as the 
Presiding Officer is as well, I helped write a similar manual years ago 
for the U.S. Marine Corps. So I find this man unique in his knowledge 
and his command ability. But when I was asked to make remarks after the 
dinner--they would always invite a Senator to make some remarks and, 
unfortunately, sometimes that turns into a speech--I was glad I said 
what I said, and virtually everybody in that room told me I had said 
what they cannot say. Those who wear their officer rank on their 
shoulders or their enlisted stripes on their sleeves in most cases do 
not comment on policy decisions or politics, no matter how strongly 
they feel. They follow orders, and they serve their country. But I 
believe my remarks to the general and his officer corps and the 
veterans of many previous wars are pertinent to the issue we face in 
this debate.

Before I express my views, I want to stress that I regret we are at a 
stalemate in this body. Obviously, they are not in the other body, in 
terms of a vote at least, on this issue of vital national security. I 
think most in the Senate wish we could debate this issue with comity, 
with cooperation, and, yes, in a bipartisan fashion. And I think the 
American people who are concerned, obviously frustrated and angry about 
the war, would certainly appreciate that, but that is not the case. 
This issue, very unfortunately, is wrapped around a partisan and 
political axle.

Our good friends across the aisle insist that we debate and vote on 
one of three nonbinding resolutions--there may have been an agreement 
on maybe one more vote--in regard to the war in Iraq, and that is all. 
They wish to debate and vote on the House resolution which is now being 
debated in the other body and about to come to a conclusion, or the 
Warner resolution, which I think are very similar, and then call it a 
day because both resolutions support the troops but not the mission.

This is the rub for many of my colleagues and myself, and it is about 
as far as the majority wishes to wade in the waters of withdrawal at 
this time. I realize if we were to consider other votes, it would be 
more pertinent to the issue, especially the amendment by Senator 
Feingold, and that would be wading in the water a little deeper than 
they would want to at this particular time.

Others of us wish to debate and vote on the McCain resolution--I hope 
we can do that--and the Gregg resolution and, as far as I am concerned, 
the Feingold resolution. I oppose the Feingold resolution, but I admire 
his forthrightness and his courage. But we are being denied that 
opportunity.

Most perplexing to me is that those who are covering this debate 
within the media--and it is never a good idea to say anything that 
could be possibly defined as critical of the media. I note there are 
none or there may be two, but, obviously, everybody is watching the 
vote on the House side.

Having said that, how on Earth can we describe this situation by 
writing headlines and 15-second news sound bites saying Republicans, 
like myself, have voted to stifle debate? I want to debate. Let's have 
a debate. Let's have a full debate and vote on the House resolution 
and/or the Warner resolution--vote on both of them--but let us also 
debate and vote on resolutions offered by Senators McCain, Gregg, and 
Feingold. I will vote for Senator McCain's resolution. I will vote 
along with Senator Gregg. I would not vote for Senator Feingold's 
resolution but, again, I think his resolution is probably the most 
determining in terms of effect, and he should get a vote.

We are not stifling or shutting down debate; our colleagues in the 
majority


are. Either we are not capable of explaining what I believe is a very 
simple proposition or some in the media cannot discern what is obvious. 
This is like playing baseball, although it isn't like playing 
baseball--that is a poor allegory, but it is the one I have chosen--
playing baseball with one strike and then you are out. You say: Wait a 
minute, usually in a baseball game you get three strikes. What happened 
to the three strikes? Where are my other two strikes? Where are my 
other resolutions that I want to debate, that I want to support because 
they are pertinent to this, certainly as much as the others? They are 
nonbinding as well. And the umpire--in this particular case the 
distinguished majority leader--says: Back to the dugout, Senator 
Roberts, I am sorry. We run this ball game. You don't have any further 
strikes.


I have information that the House has just passed the House 
resolution 246 to 182. That is a pretty solid vote. So, obviously, we 
will be getting to vote on that resolution, and I hope we will get to 
vote on these other resolutions.

In my remarks at the Command and General Staff College, I told 
General Petraeus we had not been personally acquainted over a long 
period of years, but in our short span of time, I certainly came to 
know him well. I have had several stimulating and enjoyable 
conversations with him over a wide range of issues, most especially the 
British experience in Iraq from 1921 to 1931, the example of Lawrence 
of Arabia. Lawrence of Arabia wrote ''The Small Warfare Manual,'' and 
he wrote ''The Pillars of Wisdom.'' As I indicated, the U.S. Marine 
Corps had similar manuals, one called a ''Manual on Antiguerrilla 
Operations,'' which I participated in, and now the manual the general 
has written.

It seems we cannot get it right with regard to insurgencies. The same 
things we write in these manuals we have to be careful about and pretty 
well play out the problems, to say the least, that make it very 
difficult.

Anyway, with regard to General Petraeus, he is exactly the right man 
for the right job at the right time. He knows this. He has been to 
Iraq. He was successful in his second tour. He is going back. I hope 
and pray he will be successful in his third effort. Our brave young men 
and women in uniform deserve nothing but the very best leadership, and 
they are getting it.

But I think it is a paradox of enormous irony that the Senate 
confirmed David Petraeus without a dissenting vote--not one, not one 
Senator--a vote of confidence that is unique, certainly given today's 
controversy and turmoil and the times. Yet at the same time, the same 
Senators who gave their vote of confidence are now in the business of 
what I call--I don't mean to perjure them--''confetti'' resolutions 
supporting the general and the troops but not the mission they are 
undertaking now. That to me is unprecedented for the Senate. I think it 
is remarkable, and I have said many times that these resolutions--and 
it has been said many times--are nonbinding. They have no legislative 
impact. They are so-called sense-of-the-Senate resolutions. For those 
who do not pay attention to the parliamentary procedure around here, 
that means they are meaningless except for the message you want to 
send, and that can be important to the Executive, i.e., to President 
Bush and the folks back home.

With all due respect, we have long crossed the message Rubicon with 
regard to sending mixed messages to our allies, our troops, the 
American people, the media and, yes, our adversaries. Words have 
consequences and, rest assured, our adversaries will read to try and 
figure out, analyze every word of the resolution just passed in the 
House and perhaps the one, maybe two resolutions we can pass in this 
body, hopefully three or four, and try to figure it out. I suspect they 
will be absolutely flummoxed in trying to discern the sense in reading 
a resolution that states support for the troops and our new commander, 
with new rules of engagement, with a limited timeframe for achieving 
and reporting benchmarks of progress, but that opposes the 
mission. That is a mixed message, and it should cause quite a bit of 
head scratching among the 31 different terrorist organizations that are 
planning various attacks around the world and even on the United 
States. My real concern is that the Senate is not considering or even 
talking about the probable consequences of these actions, let alone our 
responsibilities should they happen.


I want to make it very clear I do not question the intent or purpose 
or patriotism of any Senator, regardless of whatever resolution they 
are proposing voting for. I do question the judgment and the law of 
unintended effects. Bluntly put, with all this debate with regard to 
nonbinding resolutions, we appear like lemmings splashing in a sea of 
public concern, frustration, and expressing anger over the war in Iraq.

In this regard, I don't know of anybody in this body or anybody in 
America who does not want our troops home at the earliest possible 
date, and stability in Iraq, if possible. If possible--and that is a 
real question here. That is not the issue.

When all of this confetti settles, the end result of all this frenzy 
will be: ''General, you and the troops have our solid support--but we 
don't support your mission. However, press on and good luck.''

I think that message is remarkable. This is not a profile in courage. 
This is not the Senate's finest hour. If we are going to debate and 
vote on nonbinding resolutions, let us at least consider resolutions 
that will send a clear message or which can be of useful purpose. In 
that regard, we should consider the McCain resolution. It lists 
benchmarks of progress that General Petraeus has told Senator McCain 
and me would be useful in his discussions with Prime Minister Maliki, 
and certainly the Gregg resolution that supports spending for our 
troops in harm's way. I think that is the precedent we have to set. 
That is the killer in this debate, along with the Feingold resolution, 
because my colleagues across the aisle do not want to vote on the Gregg 
resolution, let alone the Feingold resolution.

Senator Feingold has a resolution which certainly does something. I 
don't agree with his resolution, but he is at least very forthright and 
sends a clear message, and he is a good Senator.

As the former chairman of the Intelligence Committee in the Senate, 
let me again stress what is not happening in the Congress or the media, 
and has received very little public attention regarding this challenge 
we face in Iraq. No one is talking about the consequences of what will 
happen if we simply withdraw or redeploy. And we may just do that, 
because I do not believe this war can or should be sustained if we do 
not see progress in the next 6 months. If General Petraeus doesn't come 
back and tell us there has been measurable progress, where we can see 
it, feel it, and touch it, we have some serious policy decisions to 
make. We need to be thinking about a policy of containment as opposed 
to intervention if this latest mission does not work.

I would also point out that most of the time deadlines for withdrawal 
are either in the nonbinding resolutions or they mirror exactly the 
time period General Petraeus has told the Armed Services Committee he 
would follow in reporting whether this new effort is making any 
progress, pretty much along the lines of the benchmarks that are in the 
McCain resolution. So the obvious question is: Who can better make that 
judgment, General Petraeus in theater or Senators here on the floor?

We have not discussed the difficult policy decisions that may 
confront us if it becomes necessary to redeploy, what that mission 
might be if we redeploy, where are we going, what is the mission going 
to be, or even how to withdraw.