# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `eef54bc97143afdd23764be17f093000`
`Mr. DONNELLY â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. Speaker, we all want success in Iraq. We want a 
stable region. We want safety and security for our troops and peace in 
the Middle East.

Our service men and women are the finest in the world, the best 
trained, the most dedicated. They are incredibly fine soldiers and 
people. They deserve a clear mission in Iraq. They deserve to have all 
the protective equipment and armor needed to keep them safe. They 
deserve to have all the funding required, and they deserve to have the 
best leadership in the field and the finest military planning from 
Washington.

What our brave troops do not deserve is Washington's bungling. We had 
bad intelligence at the start, a flawed occupation plan that failed to 
send enough troops, despite the best advice of the Army's Chief of 
Staff at that time, and Washington failed to properly plan for critical 
logistics such as electricity and infrastructure. These mistakes have 
put our troops in much greater danger.

With these issues in mind, I sent a letter to the Administration over 
1 month ago asking for specific answers as to how this surge would 
increase our chances for success in Iraq. I was very hopeful for 
positive solutions. I also asked at that time what specific benchmarks 
we could look at to indicate whether or not we were making progress. As 
of this date, I have yet to receive any answer from the Administration.

I have spoken to veterans in Winamac and in Osceola, Indiana, to 
constituents in restaurants and churches and to concerned Hoosiers 
throughout my district. I have also met with Iraq Study Group 
cochairman, Lee Hamilton, with military representatives, and with my 
valued colleagues. What I have heard consistently is that our brave 
troops should not be placed in the middle of what is increasingly 
becoming a very dangerous civil war.

Our fighting troops have been placed in an almost impossible 
situation. They are trying to bring stability to Iraqi cities and 
provinces where a fierce and bloody religious war rages between the 
Sunnis and the Shiites. Our service men and women from Michigan City 
and South Bend and Logansport cannot end this vicious cycle of death. 
Only the Iraqis can do that. The Iraqi Government and people have to 
want peace and stability for their country as much as we want it for 
them.

If the proposed surge increased our chances of succeeding in Iraq, I 
would support it wholeheartedly. However, I fear this surge will not 
lead to an Iraq that will be stable over the long term, but instead 
will simply put over 21,500 more American troops into harm's way. There 
will not be stability until the Shiites and Sunnis decide that the 
price of the death and destruction they inflict upon each other is no 
longer worth the cost. The Iraqis have to make this decision, and 
sending 21,500 more of our finest citizens will not cause the Iraqis to 
make that decision any quicker. In fact, it might only delay that day 
of decision for them.

Two recent surges by American troops did not bring additional 
security to Iraq, and I do not see how placing more troops in the most 
dangerous areas of the country at this point will calm things down. Our 
troops deserve America's full support, full funding, and all the 
equipment and materials they need to remain safe and battle ready. The 
time has come for the Iraq Government and its troops to step up and to 
seek peace with each other. Our obligation in Congress is to provide 
common-sense judgment that guarantees complete support for our troops 
and a plan that provides a path toward peace and stability.

I do not see, and I have not been shown, how this surge will further 
our chances for success. For the above stated reasons, I will be voting 
for House Concurrent Resolution 63. May God bless America and our 
troops serving in Iraq, Afghanistan and everywhere else throughout the 
world.