# None
## `ef536fef1ddd4a988ecd30e3ad42644d`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 29 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the House 
once again. I just have come to the floor on behalf of the 30-something 
Working Group. As you know, and as the Members know, we work daily and 
weekly on issues that are facing the American people and also to not 
only inform Members of Congress but also allow the American people to 
get a closer glimpse of what is happening here in the Capitol dome and 
what is not happening here under the dome.

I am proud to report that there were a couple of days, we only worked 
3 days last week, or 4, to allow the minority party to have their 
retreat. During that time, Speaker Pelosi and a number of other 
chairmen traveled to Iraq and Afghanistan to visit our troops and also 
our commanders in the field.

I can share with you that the trip will be talked about a little 
further by the Speaker tomorrow, but it is very, very important because 
it is the number one thing that is facing the Nation right now, and 
that is war in Iraq and also in Afghanistan.

Last week we spoke or talked here on the floor about the importance 
of the President's State of the Union, what was said and what was not 
said. There was some level of focus on the fact that Katrina was not 
mentioned not one time during the President's State of the Union, with 
me being from a hurricane State and representing a district that is 
constantly hit by hurricanes and natural disasters, just being one 
season away. Katrina, noted as one of the worst natural disasters of 
our time and one of the worst responses by this Federal Government, did 
not receive even a mention from the President of the United States.

I can say that there are several Members here in Congress that 
continue to be concerned about Katrina and the area of housing and 
follow-through and preparedness on behalf of our first emergency 
responders, or that they have the tools to respond, but making sure 
that FEMA has the proper oversight to be able to carry out the tasks 
needed in the event of a natural disaster or terrorist attack.

One other thing I think is important to be able to identify is 
veterans were not pointed out in this State of the Union. Looking at 
Katrina and the State of the Union, we must come to grips with there 
are two hard realities. One, if we have a natural disaster or a planned 
terrorist attack that takes place in this country, is the Federal 
Government ready to respond, especially on behalf of the executive 
branch? That question is still left unanswered.

At the same time, when we start looking at issues of veterans, 
looking at our troops, our men and women coming home, what will be the 
state of affairs on behalf of those veterans?

I am saying all of this to line up the debate that is going to take 
place after this week when we pass the continuing resolution that will 
be on the floor on Wednesday of this week, of what is going to happen 
the following week after that when the President sends his budget to 
Congress.

It is important within that budget to embrace some of the values of 
the American people and even legislation that we have filed in the 
110th Congress and also that was filed in the 109th Congress.




I think it is important, also, to outline the fact that Americans 
continue to disapprove of the direction that the President is heading 
in dealing with the troop escalation in Iraq. I will be looking forward 
to hearing more about the Speaker's trip not only tomorrow in her press 
conference but also when she shares not only with the Democratic Caucus 
but with this House of Representatives.

And to see after the State of the Union, the President's polling 
numbers drop even to another low. What I understand from some reports, 
as low as 30, 28 percent. I know the President is not going to win a 
popularity contest, but I think it is important to be able to follow 
the will and desire of the American people and on behalf of the 
Congress.

Also, I took the opportunity today, Mr. Speaker, before coming to the 
floor, to take a look at what congressional leaders are saying, not 
just on the Democratic side of the aisle but even on the Republican 
side of the aisle, and there is a great debate that is going on. I pull 
here the Congressional Daily AM, which pretty much any staffer or 
Member of Congress involved in the process here in Washington, D.C., 
can pick it up and find out what is going on throughout the whole week; 
and on a number of the issues that are going to face the President, 
some of his strongest supporters here in Congress are disagreeing with 
him at this point. I think this could only boil down to Members of 
Congress using common sense and standing up on behalf of their 
constituents, either it be an entire State, if you are a Senator, or 
Member of Congress that represents a district. I think it is important 
that we exercise those values.

There will be an up-or-down vote on how the Senate feels about the 
troop escalation in Iraq; and I believe, reading here, that the 
Democratic leader, Mr. Reid, has said that that vote will be taken and 
that there will be a number of Republicans that are going to have to 
take that vote because there are going to be 21 seats to defend in the 
Senate in the 2008 elections.

Now, saying that, Mr. Speaker and Members, this is not about 
politics. This is about standing up on behalf of the American people. I 
think Senator Webb said it best, Mr. Speaker and Members, that if the 
President doesn't want to lead us in the right direction, then we need 
to show him the way, something along those lines. And I think it is 
important on behalf of the men and women that are in harm's way now and 
the fact that we have oversight as the legislative body in this three-
branch government that we exercise our rights in this.

I want to read just a little bit here, continue from page 1 over to 
page 2: ''Warner's opposition to sending more troops was a heavy blow 
to the White House and administrative officials that hoped that the 
former Senate Armed Services chairman, one-time Navy Secretary would 
help convince colleagues to support the plan.'' I think it is important 
that the Senator and past chairman of that committee stand up on behalf 
of the American people in what is right, and I commend that on a 
bipartisan basis.

I think the American people and Members here in the House know 
exactly where Democrats stand on this issue of making sure that we 
bring about the kind of oversight but at the same time not just 
standing by and saying, well, the President is Commander in Chief; and 
he is making all the decisions.

I see my good friend, Congressman Murphy, is here.

If this was left up to politics, then we would just stand back and 
allow the President to continue to do what he is doing, and then we 
could have Ground Hog Day all over again, as we had in November, 
Democrats continuing to gain power because of the lack of leadership on 
behalf of the Republican leadership to stand up to the President of the 
United States.

But this is not about politics. This is about protecting the American 
people. This is about making sure that their will and desires are 
represented here in the people's House, in the U.S. House of 
Representatives, and I am pretty sure in the Senate.

And I am hoping that Democrats and Republicans will come together. As 
you know, Mr. Speaker and Members, here in the 30-Something Working 
Group, we embrace bipartisanship. We encourage bipartisanship. And the 
good thing about serving in an elected body is when you are right and 
you are on the side of the people, then you will return back to this 
body. If you are wrong, I used to play football down at Florida A&M, 
and we used to say the blind leading the blind and the two shall fall 
in the ditch.

So I think it is important that if we know that the American people 
are looking for a new direction versus the same direction that the 
President was taking in the 109th and 108th Congress, the wrong 
direction as it relates to Iraq, then that is a decision that every 
Member of Congress has to make.

Mr. Murphy, I am so happy that you are able to join us right now. I 
was just talking a little bit about what we finished off on last week. 
I talked about the fact that the Speaker was in theater, two theaters, 
in Iraq and also in Afghanistan. She just returned. She will be having 
a press conference tomorrow to talk about that a little more. The fact 
that on Wednesday we will be debating the continuing resolution and 
will be here on the floor. We will have a follow-up.

The President's budget will be handed down, I think, February 5, and 
some of the things which were not mentioned in the State of the Union, 
Hurricane Katrina and the victims of Hurricane Katrina and those Gulf 
States and also veterans that were left out of the State of the Union 
speech, which is going to be the next major wave that this country is 
going to be facing. How we are going to deal with the influx of new 
veterans coming into the system? And you pretty much heard the rest 
when you joined us.

But, welcome, and I yield to you.