# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `f005cdf424cc8ad8d16e2e97331810cc`
`Mr. KOHL â€” 8 March 2007`

---


Mr. KOHL. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleague Senator Smith 
to introduce the SSI Extension for Elderly and Disabled Refugees Act. 
This is the third year that a bipartisan group of Senators will come 
together in support of this legislation to serve the individuals in our 
society who most need our help.

Due to short-sighted policy passed in the 1990's, elderly and 
disabled humanitarian immigrants face a time limit of seven years on 
eligibility for Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits. Refugees 
and asylees have seven years to become citizens--an inadequate amount 
of time, given the bureaucratic delays and hurdles these individuals 
face. Thus, thousands have already lost their benefits, and tens of 
thousands more will lose this important benefit if Congress does not 
enact our legislation.

It is estimated that in the next decade, more than 40,000 elderly or 
disabled humanitarian immigrants will lose their SSI benefits. This 
program is a safety net for those who need it; in 2007, the maximum SSI 
benefit is $623 for an individual and $934 for a couple--barely enough 
to afford basic necessities. The program is structured to help those 
with severe barriers to work or elderly individuals with little or no 
retirement income. To allow these benefits to expire is to take away a 
lifeline from the neediest individuals.

In Wisconsin, these individuals are often of Hmong descent. Many 
fought with the U.S. in Laos during the Vietnam War, providing critical 
assistance to U.S. forces. After the fall of Saigon, thousands of Hmong 
fled Laos and its communist Pathet Lao government. The United States 
remains indebted to these courageous individuals and their families.

In addition to the Hmong, America serves as a shelter for those faced 
with persecution or torture in their own countries. Across the country, 
we have heard their stories; whether Jews and Baptists fleeing 
religious persecution in the former Soviet Union or Iraqis and Cubans 
escaping tyrannical dictatorships. Our policy toward refugees and 
asylees embodies the best of our country--compassion, opportunity, and 
freedom.

Our legislation will bring the SSI program in line with our other 
policies towards these humanitarian immigrants. This legislation 
extends the amount of time that refugees and asylees have to become 
citizens to nine years. In addition, the bill contains a ''reach back'' 
provision: it retroactively restores benefits to those individuals who 
have already lost them for an additional two years. This provision 
helps the individuals who need it most; humanitarian immigrants who are 
trapped in the system and have lost this important income source.

I believe we must act now to protect these individuals--we cannot let 
another year go by without action. Our country has long been a symbol 
of freedom, equality and opportunity. Our laws should reflect that. 
Every day that goes by could result in the loss of a refugee's support 
system--I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and restore 
the principles we were put here to protect.