# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `f0bfda3af3464bf5e959be69f7f533b6`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona â€” 31 July 2009`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican 
Leadership standards on budget requests, I am submitting the following 
information regarding budget designations I received as part of H.R. 
3326: FY 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill.

(1) Recipient: Robertson Aviation

Budget Designation: $3,000,000

This designation funds the procurement of internal 200 gallon A-kits 
and B-kits for installation on UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters operated by 
the Army National Guard. The Internal Auxiliary Fuel Tank System is a 
crashworthy, ballistically self-sealing, single-point pressure 
refuelable internal auxiliary fuel system that has been developed and 
fielded to H-60 helicopters operated by the U.S. Army Special 
Operations, the U.S. Navy, U.S. Air Force Combat Search and Rescue, and 
certain units of the U.S. Army National Guard. Having this system 
installed on an H-60 helicopter saves lives by reducing the risk of 
post crash fires by using military standard crashworthy self sealing 
bladders integrated into rugged aluminum honeycomb fiberglass outer 
containers. The resulting system provides ballistic protection for 
aircrews operating in hostile environments and crashworthy protection 
for all operations.

(2) Recipient: Southwest Gas Corporation

Budget Designation: $3,000,000

This funding request is for a Gas Engine Heat Pump (GEDAC) 
demonstration. GEDAC provides essential peak electric and winter gas 
load reduction. GEDACs not only provide increased energy efficiency, 
reduced peak electricity demand, costs savings to the U.S. military, 
resource reductions (water), and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, 
it also diversifies energy sources and provides the foundation for grid 
independence in electricity production. This type of energy 
independence is invaluable to a military installation, or other 
facility of national interest, that has to continue to function in the 
event of a national emergency.

(3) Proposed Recipient: USAF, Air Education and Training Command

Budget Designation: $1,500,000

This funding request is for Air Education & Training Command (AETC) 
aircraft range upgrades, specifically Barry M. Goldwater Range (BMGR) 
improvement projects. Air Education and Training Command ranges have an 
unfunded requirement for enhancements to bring them more in line with 
the operational capabilities of the F-35. The Barry M. Goldwater Range 
has an identified unfunded requirement to secure a sensor training area 
and new instrumented target area as well as two ground moving target 
sets to conduct real world training which mirrors Global War on Terror 
requirements. Acquisition of ground moving targets, and development of 
a sensor training area/instrumented target area within the Barry M. 
Goldwater Tactical Range addresses the operational requirements which 
F-16 and future pilots (F-35) will face in defeating urban and moving 
targets with high precision.

(4) Proposed Recipient: Advanced Ceramics

Budget Designation: $2,000,000

This funding request supports efforts at the U.S. Army Battle Command 
Battle laboratory at Ft. Huachuca to aggressively pursue experimental 
deployment efforts and spiral development of sensor and micro-
transponder technologies using the Silver Fox and Manta unmanned aerial 
systems (UAS). Silver Fox and Manta systems' uniquely compact size and 
stealth technology coupled with the use of advanced sensors and 
transponders enable them to detect, track, and isolate the smallest 
enemy movements, including the emplacement of improvised explosive 
devices (IEDs)--the enemy's weapon of choice against our troops in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.
