# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `f116a31bd0f89ef947c7626d88d5fad9`
`Mr. HENSARLING â€” 18 July 2007`

---


Mr. HENSARLING. Madam Chairman, again we have another modest 
amendment aiming at saving the American taxpayer, in this case $21.4 
million. Again, we have a program that has a very lofty name, 
Preventive Health under the Administration of Aging. But I think that, 
again, the program needs to be put in the larger context.

We are being asked now to provide in this particular appropriations 
bill $152 billion in discretionary funding, one of the largest bills 
that will come to the people's House. It has, I believe, a 4.8 percent 
increase over last year, when I assure you, American families who are 
being asked to pay for this did not enjoy a 4.8 percent increase.

We, once again, have another portion of the Federal budget growing 
beyond the ability of the family budget to pay for this. So we all know 
that this is a part of a plan that will increase an additional $26 
billion for domestic programs under the budget resolution of the 
Democrat majority, on top of the $6 billion that has been added to the 
current year omnibus, on top of the $17 billion in nonwar emergency 
spending they have added to the Iraq war supplemental.

Again, I recall the words of the distinguished chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee, referring to those of us who may drone on 
about attempting to save the Federal taxpayer money, but there are also 
those who seemingly use the same old argument that government knows how 
to spend money better than the American family.

Somehow, if we take money away from American families, that's an 
investment. But if they somehow keep it, well, that's waste, or somehow 
that's going to bring down the government to its knees. I just don't 
buy that argument. Somehow we are supposed to believe in the roughly 
10,000 Federal programs spread across 600 different agencies, growing 
at roughly twice the rate of inflation, growing beyond the ability of 
the family budget to pay for it, that somehow, somehow, every single 
penny of Federal expenditures is sacrosanct.


Yet there is nothing sacrosanct about the money we take away from the 
American people to pay for that.

Now, the funds in this particular program are awarded to States and 
territories that supposedly educate older Americans about the 
importance of healthy lifestyles, a very noble purpose. But I would 
note with the exception of, I think, two, maybe three States, every 
single one of them is running a surplus.

We are granting money to 95, 98 percent of the States that are 
running the surplus, while the Federal Government continues to run a 
deficit. Although that deficit is coming down because we are awash in 
tax revenues, it certainly hasn't been from any spending disciplines. 
The bottom line is we are running a deficit, and we are handing out 
money to States that are running surpluses.

Again, this is a program that the Office of Management and Budget 
says should not be funded: ''It is duplicative of services that States 
can provide to the Administration on Aging's community-based supportive 
services program.''

I have heard nobody address or take the opposite viewpoint of OMB and 
say the program is duplicative. So maybe they approve of duplication. 
If they think that OMB has got it wrong, I would be interested in 
hearing that particular argument or that particular debate.

Furthermore, OMB says that AOA and visions integrating, prevention is 
an underlying principle in its core programs and that is better than 
the current mechanism of providing a small funding stream of unfocused 
seed money through the Preventive Health Services Program. Again, I 
feel we have too much legislation by symbolism.

We should never forget, when we are talking about the lofty purposes, 
that this will provide in vital investments and health care. Let's 
remember the vital investments in health care that the American people 
have. I mean, they are going to have to pay for this.

Again, I often hear from my constituents, like Joyce in Tennessee 
Colony, Texas, says, ''Please do what you can to stop the wasteful 
spending. I am retired and disabled. I am raising my three 
grandchildren and now one great grandchild. I sometimes can't afford my 
own medicine.''

So here we have a choice. We can take money away from Joyce in 
Tennessee Colony, take money away from her health care program, to 
engage in this particular program which OMB says is duplicative.

I have heard from David in the city of Garland.