# DWELL TIME
## `f22a31151bda100a610b418c61374e90`
`Mr. SPECTER â€” 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Madam President, the issues relating to Iraq have been 
very complex, have aroused an enormous national reaction, and have been 
consuming for those of us in the Congress trying to decide what is the 
best course of action.

Had we known Saddam Hussein did not have weapons of mass destruction, 
I do not think we would have gone into Iraq. But once there, we do not 
want to leave precipitously, and we do not want to leave Iraq in an 
unstable condition with all of the potential forces that might bode ill 
for the United States in the future with respect to terrorism, with 
respect to Iran moving into a vacuum, and many complex problems which 
might arise.

The President, in his recent speech, and General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker, in their testimony before Congress, have gone to 
considerable distance in trying to move toward some of the areas of 
concern. There have been commitments of troop withdrawal before 
Christmas. There are projections for additional troop withdrawal next 
year. There has been a modification to some extent of the mission. But 
still there is an unease with the current policy.

I voted against the Levin-Reed amendment when it came before the 
Senate because I think it is unwise to fix a firm date of withdrawal. 
It just gives the insurgents a target date to shoot at to declare 
victory.

I think the provisions of the Warner-Lugar amendment had much to 
recommend them and joined as a cosponsor. I have already expressed on 
the floor my concern that the Warner-Lugar amendment was not called 
before the Senate. I think its thrust to have required a report by the 
President by October 15 and the possibility of a withdrawal date later 
but leaving the ultimate discretion to the President would have been a 
step forward. It would have imposed an obligation on the part of the 
President, the administration, to come forward with a plan.

I have also cosponsored the Salazar-Alexander amendment, which 
incorporates the findings of the independent study group. I believe 
that is a general outline which is desirable to follow. Again, I 
expressed my concern when the majority leader took down this bill 
before calling up the Salazar-Alexander amendment. I have cosponsored 
that as an outline. Again, it does not place the administration in a 
straitjacket but outlines certain goals and certain objectives.

I believe the idea advanced by Senator Biden for some time now, to 
divide Iraq into three parts--the Shiites, the Sunnis, and the Kurds--
where those factions have been engaging in violent warfare, is an idea 
which is worth pursuing. Again, that is a matter which has to be 
decided by the Iraqi Government, not by the Congress of the United 
States, but Senator Biden has couched it in the form of a resolution, 
really, on what amounts to a recommendation.

I have been considering the amendment offered by the junior Senator 
from Virginia, Mr. Webb. I discussed the issue with him last week and 
since that time have undertaken to try to find out what the impact of 
the Webb amendment would be on force projection.

I met with LTG Carter Ham last week. General Ham is in charge of 
operations at the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

During the course of that meeting, General Ham outlined the 
projection by the Department of Defense that they could meet that 1-to-
1 ratio--12 months in Iraq and 12 months at home, which is the thrust 
of the Webb amendment--that they could meet that objective by October 
1, 2008, the beginning of the next fiscal year. General Ham was not 
supportive of the Webb amendment because he raised a number of concerns 
that on its face, if you enact the Webb amendment, there are troops in 
Iraq now who will have to stay longer. There would have to be 
additional calls to the Reserves and National Guard. There might be a 
need to take people out of units which would impact on morale, but that 
if there were an October 1 date, 2008, that the 1-to-1 ratio could be 
achieved, according to the Department of Defense projections.

Earlier today, at the invitation of Senator Warner, I met to talk 
again to LTG Carter Ham and to LTG Lovelace who works with General Ham. 
During the course of that meeting, the target date of October 1, 2008, 
to be the 1-to-1 ratio was reaffirmed. There was an additional factor 
injected into the discussion, and that is the factor of some 5,500 
additional troops in a variety of categories, special forces and 
others, where this 1-to-1 ratio could not be met by October 1.



Following that meeting, I have had telephone conversations with 
Secretary of Defense Gates and National Security Adviser Hadley to get 
some sense of the position of the Department of Defense and the 
administration. Secretary Gates confirmed the ability of the Department 
of Defense to meet in general terms the 1-to-1 ratio by October 1, 
2008. He talked about some other difficulties and, obviously, is not 
endorsing any plan. The administration would prefer not to have any 
congressional action on this subject. Similarly, after an extended 
telephone conversation with National Security Adviser Hadley, I heard 
the reasons there is opposition--the difficulty of knowing whether the 
factors on the ground will be as they are projected now, and they are 
resisting congressional action which would tie the hands of the 
administration.

In considering these issues, I have been very concerned about the 
problems of micromanaging the Department of Defense by the Congress. 
There is no question we are not equipped to do that. I have studied the 
constitutional law aspects, and I studied the case of Fleming v. Page 
[50 U.S. 603 (1850)], a decision by Chief Justice Taney, and the case 
of the United States v. Lovett [328 U.S. 303 (1946)], decided by the 
Supreme Court in 1946. I am well aware of the authority, the broad 
authority the Constitution vests in the President under Article II as 
Commander in Chief, but I am also cognizant of the authority of the 
Congress under Article I, Section 8: ''To raise and support Armies;'' 
''To provide and maintain a Navy;'' ''To make rules for the government 
and Regulation of the land and naval Forces;'' ''To provide for 
organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia, and for governing 
such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of the United 
States.''

We have seen the Supreme Court recently strike down executive action 
on military commissions, saying it is the function of the Congress of 
the United States, and the Congress has acted there. So there is 
authority for the Congress on that premise, in addition to our power of 
the purse, our power of appropriation.

I have discussed the matter with Senator Webb and have indicated--
have stated an interest on my part in supporting the Webb amendment, if 
the concerns which have been expressed to me by the Department of 
Defense could be accommodated, and that is a change of date to October 
1, and an accommodation of the 5,500 specialty forces that cannot be 
enumerated. Of course, there is the waiver provision which is already 
present in the Webb amendment. I asked about the possibility of 
deferring the vote. I think that if there was an understanding by other 
Senators about the ability of the Department of Defense to meet a 2008 
October 1 date, and the flexibility needed on some 5,500 additional 
troops, there might be some additional interest in the amendment. I am 
told, at least as of this moment of 4:36, the vote is going to go ahead 
5:15. But I have discussed the matter, as I say, with the sponsor of 
the amendment, Senator Webb.

There is also the obvious factor that what we do here is unlikely, in 
any event, to have the full effect of law. If the Webb amendment gets 
60 votes and is embodied in congressional enactment, it is virtually 
certain to be vetoed by the President of the United States, and there 
are not 67 votes to override a Presidential veto. But our function in 
the Congress is to exercise our best judgment and pass what we think is 
appropriate. Then, under our constitutional system, it is the 
prerogative of the President to either sign or veto. So we take all of 
these matters a step at a time. There is a lot of concern in the 
Congress of the United States about what is happening now, and an 
interest in, if it can be structured, congressional action which would 
be helpful. All of this is obviously very involved and requires a lot 
of analysis and consideration.

I think it would be a very helpful thing for the U.S. effort, 
generally, if the Congress and the President could come to an agreement 
on a policy and a plan without leaving it solely to the discretion of 
the executive branch. The Congress is going to continue funding, and I 
have voted for that. We are not going to put the troops at risk. We are 
not going to set times for withdrawal. It is possible we could use the 
Vietnam model, where funding existed up to a certain date on the 
condition that the troops be reduced to a certain number and then by 
another date. That hasn't been tried, but I think it unlikely the 
Congress is going to go that route. We are too concerned about the 
troops and we want to support them, but we are also gripped with a 
sense of unease as to what is happening.

There is agreement between the Department of Defense, for the purpose 
of Senator Webb's amendment, that the stays in Iraq are too long. We 
have noted the increase in the suicide rate, the increase in the 
divorce rate, the increase in psychiatric problems and stress 
disorders. The policy of the Department of Defense is to have 2 months 
at home for every 1 month in Iraq for the Army; 5 months at home for 
every 1 month in Iraq for the Reserves. We are far from that. So we are 
struggling and groping to try to find an answer. In the course of the 
remaining time before the roll is called, I am going to see if it is 
possible to find some constructive way forward and some rational basis 
for the vote I will cast.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.