# INAUGURATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF AFGHANISTAN
## `f2655826958eaac4f2d0c13dadabf673`
`Mr. KAUFMAN â€” 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, today, I rise to recognize the 
inauguration of President Karzai, as he begins his second term as 
President of Afghanistan. This milestone presents a unique opportunity 
to begin a new chapter in Afghanistan's history, which I hope will be 
characterized by transparency, effective governance, accountability, 
and an even stronger partnership with America.

Our two governments share common interests in the success of 
Afghanistan and the stability of the region.

When I met with President Karzai during my September visit to Kabul, 
we discussed counterinsurgency strategy and the importance of stronger 
governance at all levels--national, provincial, and district. Counter-
insurgency strategy has proven effective throughout the course of 
history, and good governance is essential for its success.

President Karzai knows that he must garner greater support among the 
Afghan people for his government because, ultimately, this is a battle 
for legitimacy between the Afghan government and the insurgents. We 
will continue to partner with the Afghans to defeat the Taliban, but 
counter-insurgency cannot succeed if the Afghan people believe their 
government is plagued by corruption.

I welcome President Karzai's recognition of corruption as a 
''dangerous enemy of the state'' in his inaugural address earlier 
today.

His intention to create an anti-corruption unit is an important step 
to this end, but words are not enough. He must match this rhetoric with 
action, and immediately take steps to effectively address the problem.

No government official is above the law, and all should be held 
accountable for their actions. Numerous criminal cases involving 
government officials--such as recent allegations that the Afghan 
Minister of Mining accepted a $30 million bribe as part of an illicit 
deal with a Chinese mining firm--must be thoroughly investigated.

As President Karzai said today, government officials should register 
their earnings. Those who engage in corrupt behavior should face the 
full weight of the law and be brought to justice.

Corruption must be addressed for two primary reasons: one, to build 
the confidence of Afghans in their government; and two, to ensure that 
the government functions more effectively in providing essential 
services.

In order to fulfill these two goals, I urge President Karzai to 
appoint competent governors and cabinet members who respect the rule of 
law and human rights, and are unequivocally committed to the people of 
Afghanistan. The stakes are too high to revert to cronyism. Now is the 
time for President Karzai to appoint and support capable, effective, 
and law-abiding public servants.

The essential defense against the Taliban is an effective Afghan 
government. As such, I urge President Karzai to work with the United 
States and other international partners to produce specific and 
measurable guidelines for combating corruption, improving government 
transparency and accountability, providing essential services, 
strengthening rule of law tackling the drug trade, and improving the 
economic infrastructure.

Clear benchmarks must be set, and progress must be monitored to 
ensure compliance.

This plan cannot be limited to Kabul. It is critical that government 
officials in the provinces and districts are well qualified and 
empowered with the necessary authorities and budgets to improve the 
lives of all Afghans. We must work together to undermine the Taliban's 
foothold and role as the de facto provider of rule of law and basic 
services, especially in southern Afghanistan.

In addition to good governance and essential services a third element 
of success in counterinsurgency is the training and deployment of 
effective national security forces.

I welcome President Karzai's stated intention to assume complete 
Afghan control over security within 5 years. I also echo his calls for 
NATO partners to take more effective steps to accelerate the training 
of the Afghan National Army--ANA and Police--ANP.

Currently there are not enough Afghan and international forces on the 
ground to ''clear and hold'' against the Taliban. In fact, the number 
of trained Afghan security forces is less than one-third that of Iraq--
a geographically smaller country with nearly the same-sized population.

The training of the ANA and ANP must be expedited to build a stronger 
force of needed counterinsurgents, with the near-term goal of 
transferring responsibility to the Afghans.

During my two trips to Afghanistan this year, it was clear that the 
Afghan people identified security as a key concern, and wanted a swift 
transition from international to Afghan forces. Americans also hope for 
a swift transition, so we can eventually end our military presence and 
bring our brave troops home to their families.

I fundamentally disagree with accusations by some in Afghanistan--
including President Karzai--that the U.S. presence in Afghanistan is 
purely self-serving. We are committed to working with President Karzai 
to secure our shared objectives. It has been said that nations have no 
permanent allies, only permanent interests. As we stand on the cusp of 
history together, the United States and Afghanistan are allies with 
shared goals and coinciding interests.

As President Obama outlined in March, it is America's goal to disrupt 
terrorist networks in Afghanistan, to defeat al-Qaida, and to help to 
promote a more capable and effective Afghan government. The way to do 
this is to partner with the Afghan people to defend them against a 
resurgent Taliban. As Secretary Clinton said, these are mutually 
reinforcing missions.

There is an underlying urgency to this joint venture, and we cannot 
succeed without a true partner in the Afghan government.

In his inaugural address, President Karzai said the right things. Now 
is the time for implementation.

During my visits to Afghanistan, I was impressed by the resolve and 
vision of the brave people of Afghanistan. In the face of enormous 
challenges, the majority of Afghans have rejected the Taliban's 
oppression, and chosen to seek a better life for future generations.

Today represents an opportunity for President Karzai to fulfill the 
hopes and dreams of his people, and bring greater peace and prosperity 
to Afghanistan through good governance.

As he begins his second term, President Karzai must forge a path that 
will lead to a brighter future, free from corruption. We need 
leadership, resolve, and determination, if we are to be successful in 
Afghanistan.
