# EXPRESSING SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING CREATION OF REFUGEE POPULATIONS
## `f2b4dd2d76cacb5da710af542207932e`
`Mr. NADLER â€” 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. NADLER. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution which I 
introduced, along with Representatives Ros-Lehtinen, Crowley and 
Ferguson. I am proud to stand alongside of them, as well as Chairman 
Berman and Representative Ackerman, who have been strong leaders on the 
issue of Jewish refugees from Arab lands, in this historic moment of 
recognition of these refugees.

I would also like to take a moment to commend the leadership of our 
late chairman, Tom Lantos, whose leadership on this issue and on all 
human rights issues has been critical to opening this debate and to 
recognizing the rights of refugees throughout the world.

This resolution is not just about a forgotten chapter of history. For 
centuries, long before the advent of Islam and long after it, Jewish 
communities lived peacefully and often prosperously and productively in 
Arab lands among Arab people. Their forced relocation and the material 
value they lost when they were compelled to abandon their homes and 
other properties in Arab countries has never been redressed. For 
example, in Iraq, a community of 150,000 in 1948 dwindles to around 10 
today. In Egypt, a community of 75,000 in 1945 became between 50 and 
100 today. In Yemen and Aden, 63,000 in 1948 became 200 in 2003. 
140,000 Jews lived in Tunisia in 1948, less than 100 remained in 2004.

In Morocco, which is hailed today as a bastion of Jewish-Arab 
coexistence in the Arab world, a thriving community of more than a 
quarter million Jews lived their lives in peace by 1948; by 2003, only 
5,500 remained. Some left willingly, most did not.

While the plight of Palestinian refugees is well known throughout the 
world and has been a major element in every Arab-Israeli peace plan and 
negotiation, the plight of these Jewish refugees is rarely mentioned 
these days. Nevertheless, numerous international agreements pertaining 
to the Arab-Israeli conflict have been codified with the rights of the 
Jewish refugees in mind. U.N. Security Council resolution 242, passed 
on November 22, 1967, after the Six Day War, calls for a just 
settlement to the refugee problem without limiting that problem to 
Palestinians. In fact, the Soviet Union tried to limit that resolution 
to Palestinians and it was rejected.

Presidents Carter and Clinton stated explicitly that the issue of 
Jewish refugees must be a part of any comprehensive Arab-Israeli peace 
agreement. And lest there be any doubt about this status, the U.N. High 
Commission on Refugees in 1957 ruled that Jewish people that fled Arab 
countries were, indeed, ''refugees.''

This principle is reaffirmed in the Camp David Accords and in the 
Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty. The treaty states, ''The parties agree 
to establish a Claims Committee for the mutual settlement of all 
financial claims.'' And it also states, ''Jewish refugees have the same 
rights as others do.''

These Jewish refugees, Madam Speaker, were expelled systematically 
under official regime policies, which included state-fostered anti-
Jewish decrees, pogroms, murders and hangings, anti-Semitic incitement 
and ethnic cleansing. They were done in accordance with an Arab League 
1947 decree that provided a formula to promote state-sanctioned 
discriminatory measures that were replicated in many Arab countries in 
a deliberate campaign to expel the entire Jewish population from their 
home countries. And unlike the Palestinians, the Jewish refugees, 
having been expelled from the Arab countries, were absorbed into their 
host countries, mostly by Israel. About 600,000 refugees went to 
Israel, and the remaining 300,000 fled to other countries, such as 
France, Canada, Italy and the United States. In Israel today, the 
majority of the population consists of Jews from Arab countries and 
their children and grandchildren.

The right of Jewish refugees from Middle Eastern lands to seek 
redress does not in any way conflict with the rights of Palestinian 
refugees to seek redress, and resolution states this explicitly. This 
resolution merely expresses the sense of Congress that Jewish refugees, 
many of whom were so effectively absorbed by the State of Israel, 
should not be denied their legitimate rights and compensation for the 
property of which they were deprived.

The resolution further states that a comprehensive Middle East peace 
agreement can be credible and enduring only if it achieves legitimate 
rights of all refugees, ''including Jews, Christians and other 
populations'' displaced from Middle East countries. Importantly, it 
also resolves that the President should instruct the U.S. 
Representative at the U.N. and all U.S. representatives in bilateral 
and multilateral fora to use their voice, their vote and the influence 
of the United States to ensure that any resolutions relating to the 
issue of Middle East refugees which include a reference to the required 
resolution of the Palestinian refugee issue must also include a 
similarly explicit reference to the resolution of the issue of Jewish 
refugees from Arab countries, and to make clear that the United States 
Government supports the position that as an integral part of any 
comprehensive and much to be desired Arab-Israeli peace, the issue of 
refugees from the Middle East, north Africa and the Persian Gulf must 
be resolved in a manner that includes recognition of the legitimate 
rights of and losses incurred by all refugees displaced from Arab 
countries, including Jews, Christians and other groups.

There is broad bipartisan support for this resolution, which was 
passed with unanimous consent from the Foreign Affairs Committee. Many 
Jewish groups have endorsed the resolution, including the American 
Jewish Committee, Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish 
Organizations, Hadassah, the Union for Reform Judaism, the Jewish 
Council for Public Affairs, the Anti-Defamation League, and the 
Orthodox Union, among others. I must particularly acknowledge the work 
of B'nai B'rith International and the strong leadership of Justice for 
Jews from Arab Countries, which has led the International Rights and 
Redress Campaign. As of September 2007, this coalition to secure the 
rights of Jewish refugees from Arab lands includes 72 organizations and 
20 countries.

It is important to deal with this issue now while some of the 
original refugees are still alive. Justice for Jews from Arab Countries 
has organized a campaign to conduct public education programs on the 
heritage and rights of former Jewish refugees from Arab countries, to 
register family history narratives, and to catalogue communal and 
individual losses suffered by Jews who fled from Arab countries.

By adopting this resolution and urging that the rights of Jewish 
refugees be recognized in any future comprehensive Middle East 
settlement, we are simply seeking to ensure that any such agreement is 
just, fully just to all parties. As a member of the Quartet, and in 
light of the United States' central and indispensable role in promoting 
a just Middle East peace, the U.S. must reaffirm that it embraces a 
just and comprehensive approach to the issue of Middle East refugees. I 
urge strong report for this resolution.