# LET OUR VETERANS REST IN PEACE ACT OF 2008
## `f3d67868061f022879b6715c18ad9fcc`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 19 May 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from 
Virginia.

It is of great necessity that we rise today to stand against this 
horrible and devastating act, and that is, the desecration of our 
veterans' or our fallen soldiers' graves. So I rise in support of H.R. 
3480, the Let Our Veterans Rest in Peace Act of 2008, in honor and 
tribute to Jeremy Burris of Texas, whose grave site was desecrated.

Might I also suggest that on the eve of the commemoration of Memorial 
Day, when we acknowledge and honor and pay tribute to our fallen 
soldiers, this is enormously important legislation. Because the 
desecration of veterans' graves is becoming so pervasive, States have 
acted by replacing the stolen markers with aluminum markers instead of 
the brass and bronze markers they once used. How insulting, how low. 
And so it is important that this Congress say to the American people, 
and those who would do such dastardly deeds, we will accept it no more.

With the price of aluminum sharply on the rise, it is expected that 
aluminum that is being utilized instead of the bronze may also be 
stolen. So this important legislation is asking for enhanced penalties 
to make a very strong statement that this is an intolerable act and an 
unacceptable act.

As we mourn our most recent dead, those who have fallen in Iraq, how 
much more can families tolerate to know that they buried their loved 
ones, and then someone desecrated their graves?

It is important that this legislation pass today to recognize again 
the great debt of gratitude and the great debt of appreciation that we 
owe our fallen soldiers.

As the great British leader, Winston Churchill, famously stated, 
''Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to 
so few.''

We owe, many of us, all of us, so much to the few who have fallen on 
behalf of this great Nation. And so I support, enthusiastically, the 
legislation sponsored by our good friend, Representative Carney from 
Pennsylvania, the Let Our Veterans Rest in Peace Act of 2008. Let this 
be an important statement that we will not tolerate the continuation of 
such desecration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3480, the ''Let Our 
Veterans Rest in Peace Act of 2008.''

This important piece of legislation is an effort to stop the theft of 
Veterans' grave markers. Increasingly, these grave markers are being 
sold to scrap yards and recycling centers as scrap metal. The bill 
directs the Sentencing Commission to review and enhance the laws that 
currently protect Veteran grave markers.

Because the desecration of veterans' graves is becoming so pervasive, 
States have acted by replacing the stolen markers with aluminum markers 
instead of the brass and bronze markers they once used. However, with 
the price of aluminum sharply on the rise, it is expected that these 
will soon be stolen also.

The May Our Veterans Rest in Peace Act of 2008 will bring attention 
to this issue and increase penalties for this crime so that thieves no 
longer consider robbing grave markers for scrap metal as easy money and 
will think twice about desecrating the tombstone of a fallen war 
veteran.

I firmly believe that we should celebrate our veterans after every 
conflict, and I remain committed, as a Member of Congress, to ensuring 
that we respect our fallen veterans. Veterans have kept their promise 
to serve our Nation; they have willingly risked their lives to protect 
the country we all love. We must now ensure that we keep our promises 
to our veterans.

Currently, there are 25 million veterans in the United States. There 
are more than 1,633,000 veterans living in Texas and more than 32,000 
veterans living in my Congressional district alone. On this Veterans 
Day, I hope we will all take the time to show appreciation to those who 
have answered the call to duty. As the great British leader Winston 
Churchill famously stated, ''Never in the field of human conflict was 
so much owed by so many to so few.''

With the approval of legislation on June 1, 1954, November 11th 
became a day to honor American veterans of all wars. Later that same 
year, on October 8th, President Dwight D. Eisenhower, himself a 
decorated veteran of war, issued the first ''Veterans Day 
Proclamation'' which stated in part: ''In order to insure proper and 
widespread observance of this anniversary, all veterans, all veterans' 
organizations, and the entire citizenry will wish to join hands in the 
common purpose.'' It was with that endearing spirit that America 
celebrated the first Veterans Day.



We must always remember the debt that we owe our fallen veterans that 
have paid the ultimate sacrifice. From the four surviving World War I 
veterans known to be living in the United States, to the over 300,000 
veterans of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom we 
expect to see by the end of 2008. Our gratitude must continue to be 
unwavering to our fallen soldiers and veterans.

In the words of President John F. Kennedy, ''As we express our 
gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to 
utter words, but to live by them.'' It is not simply enough to sing the 
praises of our Nation's great veterans; I firmly believe that we must 
demonstrate by our actions how proud we are of our American heroes.

I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation. I believe 
it is necessary for the Nation to act now so that we all can pay 
respect, tribute, and homage to the lives of the fallen armed services 
veterans who have fought to keep America free and have fought to make 
sure that all people and nations partake in the universal freedoms that 
we find so important in this country. These individuals have given so 
much and have paid us the ultimate sacrifice: the sacrifice of their 
lives. The least that we can do, is ensure that these veterans rest 
eternally in peace and that their grave markers are not stolen for the 
profit of a few. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.