# DEMOCRATS WORKING TO SOLVE AMERICA'S PROBLEMS
## `f3d98b288568b9822df56f919bd60a4c`
`Mr. YARMUTH â€” 14 May 2008`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. Madam Speaker, it is a pleasure to be here once again 
speaking on behalf of the majority makers, the freshmen Democrats 
elected in 2006 to bring change to Washington and who have worked very 
diligently over the last 16 months to begin to reverse the damage done 
to this country over the last 7/1/2/ years.

It is interesting, I was planning to talk about what I saw as a very 
encouraging sign over the last few days, the encouraging sign that we 
had actually solid bipartisan participation in trying to come up with 
solutions to some of the very daunting challenges that face this 
country today, including energy prices.

We had a bipartisan vote, an overwhelming bipartisan vote, to 
restrict additions to the strategic petroleum reserve, something which 
the President opposes but which overwhelming numbers of both bodies of 
Congress supported. And I was going to talk about the farm bill in 
which we had significant Republican participation in coming to grips 
with a new solution to our farm policy in this country. And I was going 
to talk about our housing initiatives, how we had significant 
Republican support last week in trying to craft policies that would 
help alleviate the serious housing situation we have and to try to keep 
things from getting worse.

But after listening to the partisan attack that I just heard, I have 
to respond because what we have heard is something that is almost in a 
parallel universe. It is interesting that my colleagues from the other 
side speak as if the last 7 or 8 years didn't exist, as if the 
Republicans weren't in charge of the entire government from 2001 until 
2007, as if the national debt did not increase by $5 trillion during 
their stewardship of this government, as if earmarks had not been 
developed into an art form under Republican leadership. It is almost as 
if there is no history that they choose to remember.

I can understand why they don't want to remember what went on from 
2001 to 2006, and before that many of the policies that were developed 
under Republican leadership in this Congress prior to George Bush's 
presidency because they don't want the American people to be reminded.

But we know from all of the polls and the voter turnout that we have 
seen in the last few months, we know that the American people remember 
what has gone on in these last few years. We know because, as we have 
seen in a poll over the weekend, when asked which party does the 
American people trust to deal with the challenges we face as a country, 
the American people prefer the Democratic policies by a margin of 20 
percent, one of the largest margins ever recorded. It is not hard to 
understand why. What we have seen are failed policies from people well 
meaning, no question about it, but people who do not believe that 
government has a role in solving our problems.

We see it when people come to the government, when the average 
citizen comes to the government for help. We see them in our offices 
every day, and we talk to them at home on weekends. We know that the 
American people are hurting. They come to us for help. We know that 
nurses come to us for help. Teachers come to us for help. Social 
workers come to us for help. They are dealing with the pain of average 
American citizens every day, and we are trying to do what we can to 
help them.

We know that the other side does want to come to the help of American 
citizens from time to time if they happen to be the CEO of ExxonMobil, 
if they happen to be the CEO of Chevron, if they happen to be the 
insurance executives. Those people can always find assistance from the 
Republicans. But when the average citizen comes for help, no, no, no, 
we don't want to do that. Government is not in that business.

Well, that's why the American people turned to the Democratic Party 
in 2006 and said, We have had enough, it is time for a change. We 
believe that the Democratic Party can help working Americans solve some 
of the problems that face them.

I think we have made a very, very good start. From the very beginning 
of our leadership in the 110th Congress last January, we took steps 
immediately to raise the minimum wage which had not been raised in 10 
years. We took steps to change the rules under which drug companies 
dealt with Medicare. We took steps to end the subsidy of oil companies 
with huge tax breaks when they are making more money than they had ever 
made in their history. We worked very diligently, and we talked about 
earmarks.

My colleagues on the other side want to make it sound like we 
invented earmarks, which we certainly didn't. We actually provided for 
the first time some transparency in earmarks. We said if you are going 
to put an earmark into a bill, then you have to identify that you 
sponsor that earmark and you have to attest and swear that you did not 
reap any personal benefit. You had no personal connection with the 
recipient of that earmark. Those were not the policies under the 
Republican Congress when they had in their last budget year 16,000 
earmarks. No, you could slip them in there. Nobody knew you got the 
earmark. You could take credit for it if you wanted to, but if you 
tried to find out who gave money for XYZ, you couldn't find that unless 
the person actually took credit for it. We changed that. We required 
accountability in the earmark process.

So it is interesting to listen to my colleagues talk about the 
horrible leadership that they contend of this Democratic Congress as if 
the last decade had not occurred. I think the American people have seen 
through that. I think there is no question that the recent results, not 
just in polls but in special elections for Congress, reflect the fact 
that the American people understand that the Republicans are out of 
ideas. They just are out of ideas. The idea that government will play 
no role in solving some of the challenges that we have has proven to be 
a bankrupt idea. They persist in that philosophy, and they persist as 
of earlier today, and we have to call the attention of the American 
people that these are not the facts and that there is a very distinct 
difference between our policies, the Democratic majority, in which we 
are trying to use government to help the American people while 
maintaining fiscal responsibility, while maintaining our PAYGO rules so 
we make sure that we don't add to the Federal deficit and the national 
debt and that we pay for what we do when we do it.

Now, there is a huge exception to that policy, as we all know. We are 
going to see it on the House, on this floor in the next few days. We 
are being asked once again to allocate billions and billions of dollars 
to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. We are being asked by the 
President, who now has the lowest job approval in modern history, we 
are being asked by him to give him a blank check, once again no 
constraints on his activities in Iraq and Afghanistan, no restrictions 
on his troops, no new regulations regarding the deployment of troops, 
just give him the money and let him try to accomplish the mission which 
he said was accomplished 5 years ago but which has not only not been 
accomplished in 2008 but which is something, a mission which we still 
can't define.

I would like to ask the administration, and we have on many 
occasions, if you want our support, if you want us to continue to fund 
this failed policy in Iraq, tell us what the mission is. Tell us once 
and for all what the clear objectives are, and we will listen and we 
will use our judgment and see if that is the type of thing that the 
American people will support.



But as always, we still don't have a clear idea what the mission in 
Iraq is. It changes on a day-to-day basis. We are being asked once 
again to spend billions and billions of American taxpayer dollars for a 
policy which no one really can explain.

I think my colleagues, and several have joined me here now, are in 
the same situation as I am. On a daily basis I speak to people from my 
district, Louisville, Kentucky, and they say, we need money for this. 
We have been cut this way. We are going to have to cut services, why 
can't we just spend a little less in Iraq. Every day I get that 
question. I probably got it six times today. Why can't we take some of 
that money we are flushing down the toilet in Iraq and spend it on the 
American people who are in desperate need of the things that government 
needs to do. These are some of the issues we are confronted with today.

It is my great pleasure to be joined by two of my colleagues from the 
class of 2006, the majority makers, Mr. Keith Ellison from Minnesota 
and Dr. Steve Kagen from Wisconsin, and I am going to yield to Mr. 
Ellison and have him continue this discussion about what we in the 
majority makers and we in the Democratic majority are trying to do on 
behalf of the American people.