# ADA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008
## `f59406cf03bf2c02d3ff330f2c3d6389`
`Mr. HARKIN â€” 11 September 2008`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Madam President, I am extremely proud to be the chief 
sponsor of the ADA Amendments Act of 2008, along with the distinguished 
senior Senator from Utah, Senator Orrin Hatch. This bipartisan 
legislation will allow us to advance and fulfill the original promise 
of the Americans With Disabilities Act, which was signed into law 18 
years ago.

I am especially grateful to Senator Hatch for his leadership and for 
his friendship through all these years in helping to craft and move 
this bill here in the Senate. Senator Hatch was one of the key players 
in helping get through the original ADA back in 1989 and 1990 when we 
passed it. And in this effort we have here today, he has become a true 
partner. I deeply appreciate his willingness to take on this critical 
role. I think it is safe to say that without the help and intense 
interest of Senator Hatch on this issue, and especially on the whole 
ADA process, the bill would not be here today. Again, I am so grateful 
to Senator Hatch for his friendship and his support through all of this 
long process.

And it has been a long process. We are not here today because we just 
met the other day to put this together. It has been a couple of years 
or more in the making, and at least over a year of very intense 
negotiations with the business community, the disability community, and 
others to get to where we are today.

This bill is similar to legislation that was introduced in the other 
body by the majority leader, Steny Hoyer, and Congressman Jim 
Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin. That bill passed by a 402-to-17 margin in 
June, and of course the bill we have here today is going to pass 
unanimously.

I am also grateful that from the outset these bills have been 
conceived and crafted in a spirit of genuine bipartisanship, with 
Members of both parties coming together to do the right thing for 
Americans with disabilities. Today, we have nearly 80 Senators 
cosponsoring this bill. Of course, passage of the original ADA was also 
a bipartisan effort.

As the chief sponsor of that bill in the Senate, I worked very 
closely with a great number of people on both sides of the aisle, both 
here and in the administration--Senator Bob Dole, of course, and others 
on both sides of the aisle. We received invaluable support from then-
President George Herbert Walker Bush and key members of his 
administration, including White House counsel Boyden Gray, who worked 
so hard to get the original bill through; and Attorney General Richard 
Thornburgh, who helped us craft the bill and made sure we did it in the 
right way. Dick Thornburgh was so instrumental in that initial passage, 
and ever since then, for the last 18 years, I have kept in contact with 
Attorney General Thornburgh periodically, talking about the ADA, what 
it was doing, how it was being implemented, and of course because of 
the recent court decisions, discussing with him how we could get to 
this point today and have a bill that would overturn those court 
decisions. Former Transportation Secretary Sam Skinner was very 
involved in this also.

But I would be remiss if I didn't state forthrightly the one person 
through all these years who was the key mover of the Americans With 
Disabilities Act of 1990, without whose leadership we could not have 
gotten it done, and who enabled this Senator to be the chairman of the 
Disability Policy Subcommittee and to get this bill moved through both 
subcommittee and committee. He was there from the very beginning to the 
end and has never let up in all his years on his interest in and 
support of legislation that would fully incorporate people with 
disabilities in all aspects of American life. Of course I speak of 
Senator Ted Kennedy, the chairman of the HELP Committee, who can't be 
here with us today. He is at home in Massachusetts recuperating and 
getting better so he can be here with us next year when we take up


health care reform. But if Senator Kennedy is watching, I wish to say: 
Ted, this one is for you. We finally got here. We finally got the bill 
up.

I thank Senator Kennedy for all of his help in the last 2 to 3 years 
in pulling everything together, and I am going to have more to say 
about that at the end when I thank all those wonderful staff members 
who helped. But Senator Kennedy has been there from the beginning, in 
the 1980s, when we were doing this, and all through the 1990s, to now, 
and I am sorry he can't be here with us today. I know he is here with 
us in spirit, and that spirit has been strong to get us to this point 
today.

I also thank Senator Enzi. Prior to a couple of years ago, he was 
chairman of the HELP Committee and was also very interested in helping 
to move this legislation along. Since he has been ranking member, he 
has also been involved, and his staff involved, in making sure we could 
get this bill here today.

The fact is that Americans from all walks of life take enormous pride 
in what we have done in the last 18 years since the passage of ADA. No 
one wants to go backwards. The ADA was one of the landmark civil rights 
statutes of the 20th century, a long overdue emancipation proclamation 
for Americans with disabilities. Thanks to that law, we have removed 
most physical barriers to movement and access for Americans with 
disabilities. We required employers to provide reasonable 
accommodations so people with disabilities could have equal opportunity 
in the workplace. We have greatly advanced the four goals of the ADA: 
equality of opportunity, full participation, independent living, and 
economic self-sufficiency.

I think the triumph of the ADA revolution is all around us. I 
remember a couple of years ago attending a Washington convention of 
several hundred disability rights advocates, many with significant 
disabilities. They arrived in Washington on trains and airplanes and 
buses built to accommodate people with mobility impairments. They came 
to the hotel on Metro and on regular buses, all seamlessly accessible 
by wheelchair. They navigated the city streets equipped with curb cuts 
and ramps. The hotel where the convention took place was equipped in 
countless ways to accommodate all manner of people with all kinds of 
disabilities. There were sign language interpreters on the dais so the 
people with hearing disabilities could be full participants. And the 
list goes on and on. In other words, a kind of seamless approach to 
making sure that anyone could participate regardless of their 
disability.

For many Americans, these many changes are kind of invisible. We kind 
of take them for granted. We take curb cuts for granted and ramps, and 
widened doorways for granted. The fact is, every building--think about 
this--every building being built in America today is fully accessible, 
with a universal design. A universal design. Now, these changes may be 
invisible to most people, but for people with disabilities, they are 
transforming and liberating. The provisions in the ADA outlawed 
discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities in the 
workplace, requiring employers to provide reasonable accommodations. 
Again, these are liberating and transforming for people with 
disabilities.

But despite all this progress over the last 18 years, we have a 
problem. We have a big problem. And the problem arises because of a 
series of Supreme Court decisions that have greatly narrowed the scope 
of who is protected by the ADA. As a consequence, people with 
conditions that common sense would tell us are disabilities are being 
told by the courts that they are not in fact disabled and, therefore, 
not eligible for the protections of the law. For example, in a ruling 
last year, the 11th Circuit Court concluded that a person with an 
intellectual disability was not ''disabled'' under the ADA.

When I try to explain to people what the Supreme Court has done, they 
are shocked. Impairments that the Court says are not to be considered 
disabilities under the law--at least in some cases--include amputation, 
intellectual disabilities, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, diabetes, 
muscular dystrophy, cancer, and others.

In three decisions on the same day in June of 1999--what we now know 
as the Sutton trilogy--the Supreme Court held that corrective and 
mitigating measures must be considered in determining whether an 
individual has a disability under the ADA. This is in complete 
contradiction to congressional intent as we expressed in our committee 
reports.

When we pass laws around here, we don't put every single little thing 
in the law; we would have huge bills. What we do is we have committee 
reports and findings to instruct the courts as to what our intent 
is. We expect the courts to follow them.


In the Senate committee report, here is what we said:




 Whether a person has a disability should be assessed 


 without regard to the availability of mitigating measures, 


 such as reasonable accommodations or auxiliary aids.


You cannot get much clearer than that. The House report said 
basically the same thing. It said:




 For example, a person who is hard of hearing is 


 substantially limited in the major life activity of hearing, 


 even though the loss may be corrected through the use of a 


 hearing aid. Likewise, persons with impairments, such as 


 epilepsy or diabetes, which substantially limit a major life 


 activity are covered under . . . the definition of 


 disability, even if the effects of the impairment are 


 controlled by medication.


That was in our report 18 years ago. The Supreme Court ignored that. 
They ignored it.

In the Sutton case, Sutton v. United Airlines, the Supreme Court held 
that for persons taking corrective measures to mitigate a physical or 
mental impairment, the effect of those measures must be taken into 
account when judging whether a person is ''disabled''--and therefore 
covered under the law.

That could include anything from visual aids to prostheses.

In Murphy v. the United Parcel Service, the Court applied the same 
analysis to medication used to treat hypertension, and concluded an 
employee who was fired because he had high blood pressure and 
hypertension was not covered because he took medication to alleviate 
the symptoms. But, again, in our report, as we said before, that should 
not be taken into account.

In the case of Albertsons v. Kirkingburg--we call it the Kirkingburg 
case--the Supreme Court went further and declared mitigating measures 
to be considered in the determination of whether someone is disabled 
included not only artificial aids such as devices and medications but 
also subconscious measures that an individual may use to compensate for 
his or her impairment. What were they talking about? Kirkingburg was an 
individual who was blind in one eye. Through experience and coping with 
it, he had been able to compensate for the fact he was blind in one 
eye. The Court said subconsciously he was able to compensate for that, 
therefore he must not be disabled. People hear this and they say how 
could the Supreme Court have decided that?

Last, in another case, the Toyota case, the Court held there must be 
a ''demanding standing for qualifying as disabled.'' Again, restricted; 
a demanding standard. We have never said that in the ADA bill. We 
didn't say that at all.

What has happened is that countless individuals have been excluded 
from ADA, even though the general rule of all civil rights laws is they 
should be broadly construed to achieve their remedial purposes, and the 
ADA is a civil rights statute.

Again, what does all this mean? What this means is the Supreme Court 
decisions have led to a supreme absurdity, a Catch-22 situation that so 
many people with disabilities find themselves in today. For example, 
the more successful a person is at coping with a disability, the more 
likely it is the Court will find that they are no longer disabled and 
therefore no longer covered under the ADA. If they are not covered 
under ADA, then any request that they might make for a reasonable 
accommodation can be denied. If they do not get the reasonable 
accommodation, they cannot do their job; and they can get fired and 
they will not be covered by the ADA and they will not have any 
recourse.

Let's look at it this way. If you are disabled and you take 
medication or use an assistive device, then you will be able to do your 
job, right? If you take the medication, use the assistive device, now 
you can do your job, but you will not be covered by the ADA.


Therefore, if you ask for a reasonable accommodation, the employer will 
say: No, you can't do your job, you are fired and, guess what, you go 
to court and the court will say: You are not disabled, you use an 
assistive device, you take medication. On the other hand, if you do not 
take the medication or you do not use an assistive device, you will not 
be qualified to do the job.

So what is a person with a disability supposed to do? If I use 
medication or use an assistive device, it enables me to become 
economically self-sufficient, become independent, become fully 
integrated in society. If I take medication or use my assistive device 
I can do that, I can get a job. But then I am no longer covered by ADA, 
and I can be fired or terminated. I will not get a reasonable 
accommodation.

You can see what this has done to so many millions of people with 
disabilities. What am I to do? I want to get a job. But I want the 
coverage of ADA. But I have to give that up if I use medication or use 
an assistive device--an absolute absurdity. This is not what I 
intended. It is not what anyone intended when we passed the ADA 18 
years ago.

It boggles the mind that any court would say that multiple sclerosis, 
muscular dystrophy or epilepsy is not a disability covered by the ADA, 
but that is where we are today. Think about the troops coming home from 
Iraq, losing limbs, getting prostheses. The Court might find they are 
not disabled. If they might need some reasonable accommodations to get 
a decent job, the Court would find they are not covered by the 
Americans with Disabilities Act.

As a result, we have to have this bill, and that is what this bill is 
all about. This bill is about restoring the Americans with Disabilities 
Act back to where we intended it to be 18 years ago and to give clear 
directions to the courts about how they should decide these cases. This 
bill will overturn the so-called Sutton trilogy and Toyota v. Williams 
and will give clear direction to the courts on exactly what we mean. It 
will restore the proper balance, it will clarify and broaden the 
definition of disability, it will increase eligibility for the 
protections of the ADA.

People who are denied coverage under ADA will now be covered, and we 
will get rid of that Catch-22 situation that confronts so many people 
right now with disabilities.

I tell you, this is extremely important in the employment context. 
According to most recent data, more than 60 percent of individuals with 
disabilities are not employed. That is shameful, in our society, that 
we have an unemployment rate among people with disabilities of 60 
percent. These are people who want to work, who are capable of work. 
They want to go out and become fully functioning members of society and 
contribute to society. All they need is the opportunity.

I can tell you employers find people with disabilities are sometimes 
the most exemplary of workers. All they need is the opportunity, a 
reasonable accommodation, and they can do their job. This bill before 
us today renews our promise to all Americans with disabilities. We 
basically say we keep the basic language of the original bill, but we 
also make sure the bill overturns the basis for the reasoning in the 
Supreme Court decisions--as I said, the Sutton trilogy and Toyota case 
that has been so problematic.

We clearly state mitigating measures--such as the medication or 
assistive devices I talked about earlier--are not to be considered in 
determining whether someone is entitled to the protections of the ADA. 
No longer is it report language. We put this in bill language so the 
Supreme Court can't skirt around it again.

The bill will make it easier for people with disabilities to be 
covered. It expands the definition of disability to include many more 
life activities, including a new category of major body functions. The 
latter point is important for people with immune disorders or cancer or 
kidney disease or liver disease because they no longer need to 
show what specific activity they are limited in, in order to meet the 
statutory definition of disability. The bill rejects the current EEOC 
regulation which says that ''substantially limits'' means 
''significantly restricted'' as too high a standard. We indicate 
Congress's expectation that the regulation be rewritten in a less 
stringent way and we provide the authority in this bill to do so.


The bill also revives the ''regarded as'' prong of the definition of 
disability. It makes it easier for those who suffer from discrimination 
because of a perceived disability to be able to seek relief if they 
have been fired or subjected to another adverse action. We also say the 
definition of disability is to be interpreted broadly, to the maximum 
extent permitted by the ADA.

Again, this bill will give clear direction, of course, as to exactly 
what we intend: A broad definition, more people covered, and getting 
rid of that problem of having that Catch-22 situation.

Eighteen years ago, the Americans with Disabilities Act passed with 
overwhelming bipartisan support, and I am proud to say we have that 
same level of support today in passing this unanimously. I am grateful 
for the bipartisan spirit with which we have considered this bill. We 
have an opportunity to come together to make an important difference 
for millions of Americans with disabilities.

I might say the bill enjoys strong support in the country. I have a 
letter I will submit for the Record from over 250 business, faith, 
disability, labor, and military organizations that support this bill 
and urge its passage.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that letter be printed in 
the Record at the conclusion of the statements of both mine and Senator 
Hatch.