# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `f5cf20c927bf19ddd64bd6236a8745f1`
`Mr. HENSARLING â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Speaker, I believe that this is a sad day for our 
institution, the House of Representatives, and I think it is a sad day 
because I sense this debate has very little to do with coming together 
as a Nation to face the greatest threat that we have faced since the 
Cold War. But instead I sense and I fear it has much to do with 
politics as usual.



I have heard speaker after speaker come to the floor to decry faulty 
intelligence, to decry how our Nation became involved in Iraq in the 
first place. I have heard speakers decry how the war had been 
conducted. But, Mr. Speaker, regardless of how we got into Iraq, 
regardless of whose war it might have been once, today it is an 
American war, and we must accept that fact.

As the people's elected Representatives, certainly we should look at 
this new strategy. We need to take an open and honest look at it. And 
certainly we are all disappointed that the previous strategy has not 
yielded the desired result. But, Mr. Speaker, very, very much hangs in 
the balance.

I myself do not know if the new strategy will work. I think it can 
work. I hope it will work. And I know it is at least a strategy that 
has been recommended by the Iraqi Study Group and our new battlefield 
commander, General Petraeus. So until such a time as somebody brings to 
me a more compelling strategy or until such a time that somebody 
convinces me that somehow the security of my country and the security 
of my family is somehow made better off by our immediate withdrawal and 
the subsequent implosion of Iraq, I feel we must support the new 
strategy. Defeat is not an option.

So what are the options, Mr. Speaker? Clearly many, if not most, of 
the Democrats call for withdrawal from Iraq, as do several of my very 
respected Republican colleagues. And I respect their views when they 
are heartfelt. But, Mr. Speaker, since Democrats now control both 
Houses of Congress, why are we not voting on a withdrawal resolution? 
And that is one of the reasons this is such a sad day.

I mean, think about it, Mr. Speaker. How do you look a soldier in the 
eye and say, You know, I don't believe you can succeed in Iraq. I don't 
believe in your mission. I don't believe you can win this war. And I 
have the power to bring you home, but I refuse to do it. I refuse to do 
it. Where is the courage in that resolution? Where is the conviction in 
that resolution? If you truly believe in your heart of hearts that our 
soldiers are needlessly risking their lives, don't you have a moral 
obligation to bring them home? So with lives hanging in the balance, 
with our national security hanging in the balance, we have a nonbinding 
politics-as-usual resolution.

Mr. Speaker, it is not really all that easy to figure out exactly 
what it is that the Democrats support. But if they don't put forth 
their own strategy and yet they want to vote against the new strategy, 
that says one and only one thing. It says stay the course. It says 
status quo. If you don't have an alternative and you want to vote 
against this new strategy, then you are voting to stay the course. The 
stakes are too high to stay the course.

Now, we all know that fighting this war is very costly. And like many 
Members of this institution, I have met with the mothers of fallen 
soldiers. Their burden and sacrifice is solemn and profound. But I 
never, never, never want to meet with the mothers whose children may 
perish in the next 9/11 if we accept defeat in Iraq. Iraq must be seen 
in the larger context of this war with jihadism, with radical Islam. 
Whether we like it or not, the battle lines are drawn in Iraq. And 
don't take my word for it. Take the jihadists' word for it. Osama bin 
Laden has said, ''The epicenter of these wars is Baghdad. Success in 
Baghdad will be success for the United States. Failure in Iraq is the 
failure of the United States. Their defeat in Iraq will mean defeat in 
all their wars.''

Mr. Speaker, we must soberly reflect on the challenge that we face. 
Listen to al Zawahiri, Osama bin Laden's number two in command: ''Al 
Qaeda has the right to kill 4 million Americans, 2 million of them 
children.'' Listen to Hassan Abbassi, Revolutionary Guard's 
intelligence adviser to the Iranian President: ''We have a strategy 
drawn up for the destruction of Anglo-Saxon civilization.'' Listen to 
Iraqi Ayatollah Ahmad Husseini: ''Even if this means using biological, 
chemical, and bacterial weapons, we will conquer the world.''



This is the enemy we face, Mr. Speaker, and we face him foremost in 
Iraq.

The consequences of failure in Iraq are immense, the beginning of a 
Sunni-Shiite genocidal clash as American troop convoys flee the 
country. The battle for Baghdad will undoubtedly spill over to the 
entire country. Shiites will most likely win. They will draw in Jordan 
and Saudi Arabia to the defense of Sunni Iraqis. Iran will rise to the 
defense of Shia Iraqis. An entire regional war could easily ensue, and 
what is left of Iraq would become a safe haven for the recruitment, 
training and financing of radical Islam.