# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `f66e87177667737ea0a0086a81e20da8`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I will want to visit with Senator Conrad 
and Senator Gregg, the chair and ranking member, to try to determine 
when I will be able to offer my amendment. I wish to speak about the 
amendment. My understanding is I am not yet able to offer it because of 
an objection, but my hope is we will be able to work this amendment 
into the list of amendments very soon.

I have often described this budget process. One hundred years from 
now, we will all be dead--not a pleasant thought--but historians will 
look back at what we did and who we were and could evaluate a little 
something about us and our value systems by looking at how we spent our 
money. What did we think was important? What did we invest in? What did 
we spend our money on? That is true for families and individuals, and 
it is especially true for governments--what the Federal Government 
thinks is important. What is its value system in this budget document? 
It will tell historians a lot about who we were, the kind of people we 
were.

I want to talk about an amendment I am offering to provide funding 
for the Indian health care system. I am going to tell you why I am 
doing that. American Indians were here first. We all came later. They 
were the first Americans. Because we took their land, in most 
instances, and put them on reservations, we signed treaties with them. 
Our Government said to them: Here is what we are going to do. Yes, we 
are taking your land, but we are going to have a trust responsibility 
for certain things we are going to do for you, and we will even put it 
in treaties and sign the treaties. We are going to provide for your 
health care. So we have a responsibility here in the Federal Government 
to provide for Indian health care. If someone wondered why that is the 
case--we promised. We signed treaties, we signed up, we said we will do 
it.

So we have a couple of million American Indians in this country who 
rely on the Indian health care system. Guess what. We do a pretty 
miserable job. We spend half as much money providing health care to 
American Indians, per person, as we do to those who serve in Federal 
prisons. When we incarcerate someone in a Federal prison, we are 
responsible for their health care. We spend twice as much more on 
Federal prisoners' health care per person than we do for American 
Indians. We are not nearly meeting our responsibility. We are not even 
close to keeping our promise, and nobody seems to care very much. There 
are people dying as a result of it, and still nobody seems to care very 
much.

We passed the Indian Health Care Improvement Act on the floor of the 
Senate recently. I am proud of that because it has been many years 
since this Congress has addressed the issue of Indian health care. If 
the funding available for Indian health care had kept pace with 
inflation, here on this chart is where we would be. Instead, we are 
down here, dramatically underfunding the health care system for 
American Indians, and as a result, we have full-scale health care 
rationing. It ought to be a scandal. It ought to be on the front page 
of the Washington Post, but it is not. It is a scandal, as far as I am 
concerned. Health care rationing? That is unbelievable to me.

Let me describe this health care rationing, if I might. My colleagues 
have heard me speak about this before when I talked about the Indian 
Health Care Improvement Act, but repetition is fine, as far as I am 
concerned, when you are talking about something this important.

Ardel Hale Baker was having a heart attack. She was a member of the 
three affiliated tribes, the Mandan, Hidatsa, and Arikara Tribes. She 
is a member. She was having a heart attack. They put her in an 
ambulance and sent her to a hospital 85 miles away. When she got to the 
hospital, they pulled her off of the ambulance gurney to put her in a 
gurney for the emergency room, and they found a piece of paper taped to 
her thigh. The piece of paper taped to her thigh said this, it said to 
the hospital: This is Ardel Hale Baker. If you admit this patient to 
the hospital, who is having a heart attack, by the way, understand you 
probably will not be paid for it because there is no contract health 
funding left for this individual Indian.

So Ardel Hale Baker is having a heart attack, and she is wheeled into 
an emergency room with a piece of paper taped to her thigh that says: 
Oh, by the way, hospital, admit this woman, and you may not be paid.

I described the need for Indian health care in the names of two 
children, one 5, one age 14, both dead. Let me tell my colleagues about 
them, as I have before. If, after we understand these issues that are 
going on all around the country in Indian Country, we still say there 
is no need here and it doesn't matter, then there is something 
coldhearted about this institution.

Let me describe Ta'shon Rain Littlelight. This beautiful young girl 
loved to dance, as you can see from the costume. She used to go to the 
powwows and dance. She was 5 years old and very sick. She was taken to 
the Indian health clinic again and again and again and again. They 
diagnosed her illness; depression, they said. So this 5-year-old girl 
was treated for depression. Then one day she could not bear the pain 
any longer. They took her to Billings, MT.

By the way, she was on the Crow Reservation in Montana. The way I 
know about this young girl is her grandmother came to a hearing I held 
with Senator Tester on the Crow Indian Reservation in Montana, and she 
held up a poster this big with a picture of her grandchild, and she 
described her death.

After being treated for depression, after going to the clinic time 
and time again and being treated for depression, one day she couldn't 
bear the pain, and they rushed her to Billings, MT, to a hospital 
there, and then they rushed her to Denver, CO, to a hospital there, and 
they said she had 4 months to live because she had terminal cancer--
this, after having been treated for depression for so many months.


Ta'shon Rain Littlelight said to her mom when they were in Denver 
that the one thing she wanted to do was to go see Cinderella's Castle 
at Disney World. The Make A Wish Foundation


took this little girl and her mother to Disney World in Orlando, FL, to 
see Cinderella's Castle. The night before, in the hotel, as they 
arrived in Orlando, the night before visiting Cinderella's Castle, 
Ta'shon Rain Littlelight said to her mother: Mommy, I am sorry I am 
sick. Mother, I am going to try to get better. She cuddled up in her 
mom's arms and never again woke up. She died in her mother's arms the 
night before she was to see Cinderella's Castle.

Her family told me this little girl spent the last 3 months of her 
life in unmedicated pain with a terminal illness, diagnosed as having 
depression. Her grandmother and her parents wonder, with decent health 
care, would this young girl have died? Would Ta'shon Rain Littlelight 
perhaps have lived? Maybe so.

Does it matter that a 5-year-old girl dies because she doesn't get 
the health care most all of us would expect? It does to me.

There was a 14-year-old girl named Avis Littlewind. She was on the 
Spirit Lake Nation Reservation. I talked to her family. I talked to her 
classmates in school. I talked to the Indian tribal council. I did that 
because Avis Littlewind was a 14-year-old girl who spent the last 3 
months of her life curled up in her bed in a fetal position, 
desperately ill, desperately emotionally ill, with no treatment 
whatsoever. At the end of that 90 days, she took her own life in her 
bedroom.

Her sister had taken her own life 2 years prior. Her father had taken 
his life. She came from a very dysfunctional situation. But somehow a 
14-year-old girl is not missed for 90 days? Not in school? On that 
reservation, they didn't have any mental health treatment capability. 
They told me they would have had to borrow--had someone known that Avis 
Littlewind, this child, was lying in bed for 90 days feeling hopeless 
and helpless, before she took her life--had they been able to find some 
mental health treatment somewhere, they would have had to borrow a car 
because there is no vehicle to take someone to treatment. It is a 
completely dysfunctional system.

These are two children who should not have died among us, but they 
did, and others will--perhaps today--because we have a health care 
system in the Indian Health Service that is not working. It is 
dramatically underfunded.

My colleagues who oppose the bill on the floor of the Senate 
recently, the Indian Health Care Improvement Act--a couple of my 
colleagues who voted against the act said we need reform but we are 
going to vote for additional funding. We are at least $2 billion short 
of just providing the kind of thing we would expect for us and our 
family.

Let me ask you this: If your aunt or your grandmother went to a 
doctor with bone-on-bone in a knee, so she couldn't even walk, it was 
so painful, a knee condition that was so unbelievably painful she could 
hardly move, what would we expect? Our families would expect she would 
get a knee operation and perhaps a new knee joint, have a replacement 
with a new knee.

I will tell you what happened to a woman who contacted me from the 
Indian Health Service. She went to the doctor with this unbelievable 
pain and the inability to move. She was told to wrap that knee in 
cabbage leaves for 4 days and it would be fine. That is not medicine, 
that is malpractice. What we would expect for our family would be to 
have a knee replacement. That is the kind of medicine we would expect. 
It is not the kind of medicine that is now being delivered.

Yes, there are some good people in the Indian Health Service. There 
are some who should not be there as well. There are people who work 
hard and long hours and do a great job, and my hat is off to them. 
There are some who, long ago, should have been fired, and no one seems 
willing or able to do it.

In this case, I say people are dying because we are rationing health 
care. That is a scandal.

I have offered an amendment that would restore $1 billion to this 
account. The money would be paid for by--I believe it is function 920 
that will provide the payment for this. The question is, Will we decide 
this is a requirement, this is a responsibility? I don't know the 
answer to that. I have tried before. I guess some are willing to just 
blithely go along and act as if this doesn't exist, people are not 
dying, people are not suffering, or if they believe it exists, to say: 
You know what, it is a tough life out there, it happens. We don't have 
the funding.

It would have been nice, perhaps, to have told those first Americans, 
the American Indians, when they sat down at the table and signed the 
treaty and expected the Federal Government, the United States of 
America, to keep its promise--it would have been nice, perhaps, when 
the American Government signed it if they had just said: Look, we are 
going to try really hard, but we are not sure we can do what we are 
promising you we will do. We will do our best, but we are not sure we 
can do that.

We don't have the money, apparently, to help Ta'shon Rain Littlelight 
or Avis Littlewind, and we don't have the resources or the will, I 
guess. That is what we are told. I happen to know how much money we 
have to build health clinics in Iraq. I happen to know we are building 
950 water projects in Iraq right now. I know how many electricity 
projects we are building in the country of Iraq. I know how much we are 
spending on road projects in the country of Iraq right now.

I went to a hearing yesterday and heard that $18 billion, most of it 
American money, is unaccounted for in Iraq and wasted. I went to a 
hearing yesterday to hear that $4 billion, most of it American money in 
Iraq to provide for additional equipment for Iraq's armed forces, is 
unaccounted for, and the head of their military who could not account 
for $4 million is now living in London, a big property holder. So don't 
tell me there is not money. How about taking some of that money and 
investing it here at home? How about taking some of that money and 
deciding to take care of our obligations and our commitments and our 
promises in this country?

We are going to have a long, tortured trail over this budget. I 
understand it. Everybody has their own sense of what is important and 
what is not. But if the health care for children and elders on our 
Indian reservations, for whom we have a trust responsibility for health 
care, with whom we have treaties--if that is not an urgency, if that is 
not something we are willing to commit to do, then, in my judgment, 
there is something wrong with the value system here.

I know there are so many other priorities. I look at this S. Con. 
Res. 70. It doesn't contain much but numbers. It is 69 pages of 
numbers. There are no jobs in here. There is no blood here. There is no 
health care here. It is just numbers. But all of these numbers mean 
something in a profound way. These numbers tell the American people 
what our priorities are and whether we are willing to keep our 
promises. I hope the answer from the Senate at last, at long, long 
last, is we will begin--at least begin to keep our promises.

If you few decide you want health care to continue as it is with 
respect to Indian Health Services, then you must stand up for saying: I 
believe in health care rationing; we are going to make a decision to 
withhold health care from people who need it.

The Indian Health Service--let me give an example, on the Fort 
Berthold Reservation, you go to a clinic that is open from 9 to 5 
o'clock 5 days a week. You get sick on Saturday at 6 o'clock, or at 
night on a weekday, you are in trouble. You are 85 miles from the 
hospital.

So you go to the hospital in an ambulance that is paid for with 
contract health care, because they do not have that kind of capability 
on the reservation. So contract health care. What do they say on Indian 
reservations? Do not get sick after June, because there is no contract 
health money. If you are going to get sick, it has got to be before 
June. If you get sick, otherwise you end up on a gurney with a heart 
attack with a piece of paper attached to your leg. And the paper says: 
By the way, hospital, admit this woman and you may not get paid.

That is an unbelievable way for us to meet our obligations. The fact 
is, we are not keeping our promises. I hope somewhere in the long trail 
of paper, somewhere in the deep abyss of all of these numbers, perhaps 
there is a value system, somewhere there is a value system deep in the 
recesses that will get people here in the Senate to say:


You know what, one of the first obligations of this country is to keep 
its promises. One of the first obligations of the Senate is to stand 
up. It is too late for Ta'shon Rain Littlelight, it is too late for 
Avis Littlewind, but other children will survive and other children 
will live if we decide to do the right thing.

Now, I wish to say to my colleagues that I would like to offer this 
amendment. I am told that at some point I will be able to. If I can 
have a dialog with them, I wish to find out----