# ENERGY
## `f6caa06df835a80c7ed7917d5ffd48fd`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I come to the Senate floor to speak about 
the issue of energy and the importance of this Senate and this Congress 
and this country moving forward with an authentic picture with respect 
to energy independence for our country. When I get up in the morning 
and think about the major issues that are facing our country, there are 
three issues which always come to mind.

The first is what is happening in Iraq and around the world and how 
we restore America's greatness and how we put Humpty Dumpty together 
again with respect to making sure America's greatness which we have 
enjoyed for the last two centuries is something we enjoy in the 21st 
century and beyond.

Second are the difficult and important domestic issues which we are 
attempting to confront today--the issue of health care and how we move 
forward to create a system of health insurance and health care 
availability for all the people of America, an issue which continues to 
confront us.

Third, the issue of energy and how we look forward. The issue of 
energy is something many of us in this Chamber and in the House of 
Representatives and the White House today will continue to work on, 
which is so important to all of us.

With respect to Iraq, we will be facing that issue here in the weeks 
and months ahead. I believe strongly there is unity in the United 
States of America in terms of our support for our troops. I believe 
there is a long-term desire for us to make sure what we do is establish 
stability in the Middle East.

I believe all of us want to make sure we are doing everything we can 
do to support our troops. Nonetheless, the debate will occur here on 
this floor this week and beyond. It is an important debate. It is a 
debate that involves perhaps the most important issue of our time. That 
is the issue of war and peace and the debate that is certainly 
appropriate to be held on the floor of the Senate.

With respect to health care, I am pleased with the efforts the Senate 
Finance Committee and the HELP Committee are undertaking, with the 
leadership of Senator Baucus and Senator Kennedy and others, as we try 
to address the issue of health care. This year for sure we will move 
forward with a program that hopefully will expand the coverage of 
health insurance to the children of America. We think about 9 million 
children in this country today who have no health insurance. The 
expansion of the SCHIP program is something that is very important for 
all of these children across our many States who today do not have 
health insurance.

But the other issue, the energy issue, is one which is winding its 
way through our various committees in the Senate today. In the 
Agriculture Committee, under the leadership of Senator Tom Harkin, we 
currently are looking at title 9 of the farm bill. We will have a 
robust law that will move us forward with a new agenda with respect to 
agriculture and energy.

In the Senate Energy Committee, under the leadership of Senators 
Bingaman and Domenici, we are working on several bills that will help 
us move forward toward energy independence.

In the Senate Finance Committee, under the leadership of Senator 
Baucus and Senator Grassley, we have numerous initiatives on the table 
that will create incentives for us to have the kind of biofuels, solar 
energy, and the other kinds of energy that will create the new 
environment for us to be successful in a program on energy 
independence.

For me, when I think about energy, I see the dawning of a new age for 
my State of Colorado and also for America. It is a dawning of an age 
for America which we ought to embrace with vigor. It is the dawning of 
the age of a clean energy future for the United States of America. One 
year ago in my State I hosted the first Colorado Renewable Energy 
Summit. At the summit, there were more than 500 of us brought together 
to talk about our national energy policy and the energy opportunities 
we face in my State.

We put renewable energy in the headlines for Colorado, and we have 
kept energy at the top of Colorado's agenda for the past year. This 
last Saturday, 2 days ago, on March 24, 2007, we again summoned the 
people of Colorado and we had over 1,000 people who attended a summit 
at the Colorado Convention Center. We were joined in that summit by my 
colleague Senator Wayne Allard, by Colorado Governor Ritter, the mayor, 
six Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, the president of the 
Colorado Senate, the speaker of the Colorado House of Representatives 
and, as I said, more than 1,000 people in my State who were interested 
in renewable energy and energy efficiency, not only for our State but 
for the entire country.

Because of the work we have taken on in the last year in Colorado, 
today we have a Colorado Renewable Energy collaboration. That 
laboratory is an incredible association with the National Renewable 
Energy Lab, the Colorado School of Mines, Colorado State University, 
and the University of Colorado at Boulder.

Even though the ink is not yet dry on the formation of the 
collaboration, these four great research institutions have already 
launched a world-class research program. It is called the Colorado 
Center for Bioresearch and Biofuels.

Colorado's private sector is moving forward, too, on a variety of 
different fronts. First, with respect to wind, Colorado has added over 
60 megawatts of wind generation in the last 4 years. But consider what 
is on the agenda for 2007. In 2007, my State of Colorado will add 
another 775 megawatts. That is more than tripling the State's 
production of wind generation. That is an equivalent of the generation 
we get from approximately two full-fledged powerplants.



Beyond wind, we have embraced solar. Since the passage of a citizens' 
initiative in Colorado 2 years ago, Colorado's solar industries have 
seen a growth of 40 percent every year. The State's first commercial 
solar electricity project will be constructed in my native San Luis 
Valley in 2007. We moved from wind to solar to biodiesel. In 2004, 
there was no biodiesel produced in the State of Colorado. Today we have 
three plants in my State that are producing more than 30 million 
gallons a year, and a fourth plant is ready to start operations in the 
production of biodiesel.

We go beyond biodiesel to ethanol. Two years ago we had no ethanol 
plants in the State of Colorado. Today we have three ethanol plants 
that are producing 90 million gallons of ethanol, and we have a fourth 
plant that will come on line in 2007, adding 50 million more gallons 
per year, and several other plants that are in the planning stages.

That is not all. In my State of Colorado, we have moved forward with 
wind energy companies, with solar, photovoltaic designers, and 
manufacturers who are opening facilities in places such as Larimer 
County. Cellulosic ethanol companies, which are engaged in research and 
development, inform us within 2 years they will be at a point where 
cellulosic ethanol will be available in the commercial markets.

We have hybrid vehicle manufacturers who are doing the technology 
development and research in my State, hybrid and plug-in vehicle 
battery manufacturers, engine efficiency research companies, such as 
German manufacturers in El Paso County and Colorado Springs.

There is a whole lot more that is happening with respect to clean 
renewable energy in my State of Colorado. We have a long road ahead of 
us, but we have found our stride and we know the destination. We want 
America to be the world's center for renewable energy research, for 
development and for production. I want my State to play a significant 
role as we embrace that agenda.

Let's be clear about what is happening with respect to energy in the 
United States of America. Some of us need to remind ourselves it was 
not so long ago when President Nixon and then President Carter later on 
said we needed to embrace a new ethic of energy independence. This was 
in the 1970s, some 35, 40, 45 years ago when we were talking about the 
importance of energy independence, frankly, because of the economics 
that were driving it at the time. There was great concern with respect 
to the formation of OPEC and with respect to the volatility of markets 
that could disrupt the American economy.


We see what happened in response to the leadership in the 1970s where 
there were great investments made in technologies that would look at 
alternative fuels that would power our homes and cars in this country. 
But the driver of economics went away when the price of oil dropped to 
around $20, $21, $22, $23 per barrel. Over this last year, we saw the 
price of oil get up to $60 and $70 per barrel, and we saw the price of 
a gallon come up to $3 a gallon, in some places more than $3.50, $3.60 
a gallon, the price of diesel following the same path. It became 
apparent at the time the economic driver was not the only significant 
driver here.

Mr. President, may I inquire as to the amount of time we have in 
morning business?