# ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `f80a40e900094edac906a0c85a58d7ce`
`Mr. VISCLOSKY â€” 19 June 2007`

---


Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Chairman, it is my privilege to submit to the 
House for its consideration H.R. 2641, the Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2008.

I want to first thank all the members of the Energy and Water 
Development Subcommittee for their help in bringing this bill to the 
floor today. I particularly want to thank my partner and ranking 
member, Mr. Hobson of Ohio, for his extraordinary friendship and 
cooperation this year.

I would parenthetically point out that for the last 8 years, Mr. 
Hobson has come to this floor as chairman of an appropriations 
subcommittee to manage a bill. I am wiser and richer because of the 
advice and counsel of Mr. Hobson throughout the development of this 
bill, and I thank my friend deeply.

This is a truly bipartisan bill that represents a fair and balanced 
compromise. I believe this is the way our constituents expect 
Representatives to work together, and I am proud of our bipartisan 
process. I also want to thank the chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee, Mr. Obey, and the ranking minority member, Mr. Lewis, for 
their support.

And I deeply want to thank all of the staff of the subcommittee, 
Dixon Butler, Scott Burnison, Terry Tyborowski, Taunja Berquam, Lori 
Maes, Kevin Cook, Rob Blair, and Ben Nicholson, for their very hard 
work on this bill. I want to also thank both Shari Davenport of my 
office and Kenny Kraft of Mr. Hobson's office. And I would also 
acknowledge our agency detailee, Chris Frabotta from the Corps of 
Engineers, for his assistance in putting this bill and report together. 
These people form a great team and their work has been invaluable. I 
would also note for the membership that Chris has served two tours of 
duty in Iraq as part of the Army Corps of Engineers and Taunja has also 
served our country in Iraq on one tour also with the Army Corps of 
Engineers.

Total funding for the Energy and Water Development in fiscal year 
2008 is $31.603 billion. This bill cuts lower priority programs. These 
spending cuts include 37 programs in weapons under the Department of 
Energy, totaling $632 million below the President's request, and 20 
other programs, totaling $280 million below the President's request.

On the other hand, this bill funds the most worthwhile projects and 
programs at or above the requested level. It reduces some programs that 
are less valuable or less urgent and redirects funding from previous 
years that has not been obligated or spent.

All our constituents are in shock at the high price of gas. There is 
nearly half a billion dollars provided in this bill for research, 
development, and demonstration efforts in biofuels and vehicle 
technologies. I would also note that this subcommittee has been working 
to provide additional funding for this critical area for 3 years, first 
of all, under the leadership of Mr. Hobson and, more recently, myself. 
We are today funding above the President's request for biofuels and 
vehicle technologies over fiscal year 2006. Together we again increase 
funding in 2007, and this subcommittee this year made additional 
investments in vehicle technologies and biofuels for fiscal year 2008. 
Compared to the President's 2006 request, the subcommittee has worked 
in a bipartisan fashion to address the energy crisis by increasing 
funding for these areas by over 100 percent.

These efforts will not bring down the price of gas immediately, but 
they will help put us on a path to decrease dependence on imported oil 
and greater fuel efficiency. These are critical steps we must take 
today.

One of the reasons for our current energy price crisis is the past 
lack of investment in energy. In fiscal year 2006, adjusted for 
inflation, government funding for energy research, development, and 
demonstration had fallen to less than one-quarter of its 1980 levels. 
In the fiscal year 2007 year-long continuing resolution, Congress began 
to address this by increasing funding for energy efficiency and 
renewable energy activities at the Department of Energy by $300 
million. For example, in fiscal year 2006, adjusted for inflation, 
government funding for conservation R&D


was 49.2 percent of where it was in 1980. This year it will be 68.7 
percent. The bill provides increased funding for energy efficiency and 
renewable energy that is $400 million above 2007 levels.

Energy consumption can be cut in the near term through increased 
funding for weatherization assistance. This bill provides $245 million 
in weatherization grants and is an increase of $100 million from the 
President's request. In addition, the bill redirects fossil energy 
funding to emphasize carbon capture and sequestration.

Increased funding is included for nuclear energy as well, balancing 
support for licensing new light water nuclear reactors, the kind that 
currently provide 20 percent of our electricity, for demonstrating the 
safer Gen IV helium-cooled nuclear reactor technology and for research 
and development, particularly on the nuclear fuel cycle.

Nuclear weapons or weapons material in the hands of terrorists is 
acknowledged by the President and others to be the number one terrorist 
threat to the United States. The Department of Energy takes the lead in 
combating this threat by advancing international efforts to prevent 
nuclear proliferation with an $878 million, or 74 percent, increase to 
the President's proposed operating level for legitimate nuclear 
nonproliferation programs.

Testimony before our committee has made clear that there are 
significant opportunities for protecting such nuclear material where it 
exists, enhancing monitoring systems that detect it should it be moved 
illegitimately, and transferring it to safer locations. This bill also 
redirects funding provided in 1999 but never spent to initiate a 
nuclear fuel bank under the auspices of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency. This fuel bank, conceived originally by former Senator Nunn and 
others, is intended to remove the motivation for countries that wish to 
rely on nuclear energy to develop their own uranium enrichment 
capabilities. This is the precise concern that the U.S. and many other 
nations have today with the country of Iran.

Nuclear nonproliferation activities have included parallel efforts 
for the United States and Russia to dispose of surplus weapons-origin 
plutonium. The U.S. has pursued fabrication of mixed oxide fuels, so-
called MOX, for use in commercial nuclear reactors followed by disposal 
in Yucca Mountain as its strategy. It is assumed that Russia will 
eventually agree to follow a similar path. Russia prefers a different 
path to dispose of its weapons-origin plutonium by using it to fuel 
breeder reactors. This approach would result in more plutonium, not 
less. The administration and the defense authorizers ended a direct 
linkage between the U.S. and Russian programs last year. Therefore, 
with no expectation of any Russian plutonium disposition occurring 
under this program, the U.S. MOX facility is no longer a nuclear 
nonproliferation activity. And very importantly, and I would emphasize 
this, the subcommittee transfers the project to the nuclear energy 
program along with enough funding to allow construction to proceed. 
This funding for MOX will be accompanied by continuous oversight. This 
subcommittee will closely monitor the progress of the MOX facility. If 
mistakes continue to be made, the Department of Energy will find it 
very difficult to make a successful case for any further support.

Without question, Mr. Chairman, there is a need for a comprehensive 
nuclear defense strategy and stockpile plan to guide transformation and 
downsizing of the stockpile nuclear weapons complex; and until progress 
is made on this crucial issue, there will be no new facilities or 
Reliable Replacement Warhead. Only when a future nuclear weapons 
strategy is established can the Department of Energy determine the 
requirements for the future of nuclear weapons stockpile and nuclear 
weapons complex.

Further, testimony before this subcommittee has pointed to the 
potential for the international community to misunderstand development 
by the United States of a new nuclear weapon. Moreover, for the last 
decade, the administration has said that stockpile stewardship was a 
path to maintain the safety, security, and reliability of the nuclear 
stockpile. Now, with three major facilities that we were told were 
needed for stockpile stewardship all overbudget, all over their 
deadlines, and all not completed, we are told ''let's do something 
else.''

Given the serious international and domestic consequences of the U.S. 
initiating a new nuclear weapons production activity, it is critical 
that the administration lay out a comprehensive course of action before 
funding is appropriated. Major transformation of the weapons complex 
can only be produced with significant bipartisan support, lasting over 
multiple sections of Congress and multiple administrations. Given the 
track record of mismanagement at the agency for projects that have a 
plan, I don't think it is asking too much for a comprehensive nuclear 
strategy before we build a new nuclear weapon.

People work hard for their money before they pay their Federal taxes. 
The Department of Energy has squandered vast sums of this money. 
Project management at the Department of Energy must be reformed. The 
Department of Energy is the largest civilian contracting agency of the 
Federal Government and spends over 90 percent of its annual budget on 
contracts. In 1990 the Government Accountability Office, the GAO, began 
an annual assessment resulting in a list of programs that are at high 
risk for waste, abuse, and mismanagement. DOE contract management has 
been on that list year in and year out for 17-long miserable years. GAO 
has found that since October 2002, alone, DOE has achieved its 
performance goal of implementing projects within 10 percent of cost and 
schedule baselines only about one-third of the time.

One of the management failures is the waste treatment plant at 
Hanford, Washington, where the construction cost overrun now exceeds $8 
billion. This is just one example of inexcusable, ineffective, and 
wasteful project management at the Department of Energy. DOE's 
inability to effectively manage critical projects has real consequences 
for our Nation and calls into question their ability to ensure that we 
are prepared to meet important challenges.

In the bill, DOE is directed to work with the GAO to develop a 
concrete plan to get off the GAO high-risk list.

There are also elements in this bill, important ones, dedicated to 
the environmental cleanup responsibilities of the Department and for 
the Army Corps of Engineers, as well as the Bureau of Reclamation.

I do believe, Mr. Chairman, this is a very good bill and would 
recommend it to my colleagues' attention and would request their 
support.

Mr. Chairman I reserve the balance of my time.