# None
## `f81c3d7dca453423a26a31bc8ed7adf8`
`Mr. KENNEDY â€” 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I thank the Senator.

Mr. President, as was described earlier on the floor with the 
chairman of the committee, on last Friday, there are important 
provisions dealing with refugees, particularly the select refugees who 
have been the ones who have been so associated with the American effort 
in Iraq.

We have differences in this body on the overall policy in Iraq, but I 
think all of us admire those extraordinary individuals who worked, in 
many instances, as translators for the American servicemen and risked 
their lives. Many of them lost their lives in this effort. A number of 
others who had worked with American forces now have their lives 
threatened, for which there is a sense of urgency. The amendment was 
accepted by both Senator Levin and Senator Warner. We are hopeful it 
will result in saving lives. Also, there are individuals who, by their 
religious beliefs, were being persecuted as well.

So this was a small amendment, but it will make a big difference. I 
thank them for their help and assistance on that amendment and a number 
of other items on our hate crimes legislation, and others.















 Amendment No. 3058


Mr. President, one of the pending amendments is the amendment offered 
by Senator Mikulski and myself, and that is an amendment that affects 
workers. In this case, we are talking about Defense Department workers. 
Of those 640,000 Defense Department workers, we are talking about a 
third of those workers who have proudly served in the Armed Forces of 
our country. They have worn the uniform of our country, acquired 
various skills, and then have come back and now are serving in the 
Defense Department in a wide variety of areas--in information and 
information technologies, in supplies, in technology and safety 
equipment--a wide variety of areas. They are using their skills--which 
they had--their patriotism, their dedication to service to this country 
and are doing so with great skill and determination.

It means a lot to those who are in the Armed Forces to know they have 
a backup, first of all by their families, but secondly by skilled men 
and women who are going to make sure they have the best in technology, 
the best in terms of equipment, and that they are going to be able to 
do their job in the way they were trained. Those are the Defense 
Department employees.

Now, we have found in recent times as to those employees that their 
futures have been put at risk. They have been put at risk because of a 
change in the rules and regulations for what they call outsourcing, the 
bidding for various contracts. These workers are highly skilled, highly 
professional, and they are prepared to compete on a level playing field 
with any group of workers--public or private sector--and do so, and do 
so well, do it skillfully, and also do it in a way that is going to 
save the American taxpayer resources. But what is added to the bid in 
various contracts is the fact that these Federal employees have health 
insurance and also have some retirement benefits.

In this country now we are facing a health care crisis. We hear 
Democratic candidates for President talk about it, Republican 
candidates talk about it, business leaders, leaders of the trade union 
movement talk about it. We were spending $1.3 trillion 6 years ago; we 
are now spending $2.3 trillion. We have increased the spending by $1 
trillion, and 8 million Americans have lost their health insurance--8 
million. It would be more than that if we didn't have the SCHIP 
program. That is another issue for another time, when it will be more 
than that.

So we are in real danger of seeing middle-class families lose both 
their retirement in terms of their pensions, as well as their health 
insurance. Now we have the regulations of the Department of Defense 
that are accelerating that. Effectively, what they are saying is, if we 
have good competition between the government bid and the private bid, 
the fact that we have health insurance and retirement, it is going to 
make the total cost somewhat higher and therefore the award will go to 
the private bid. This is sending a powerful message to these private 
contractors: Don't even think of providing any services, health care, 
for the families of your workers. Don't think about retirement. Don't 
think about anything because you can win contracts against those who 
are working in the Defense Department who are providing those benefits. 
That is basically unfair.

This competition ought to be for the cost of providing the services. 
Who can do that more efficiently? We don't want to rush to the bottom--
a race to the bottom--and that is what we are having at this time, and 
that is wrong. That is wrong, and it is unfair. If we continue that, we 
are going to find out we are going to have not tens of thousands, but 
we are going to have hundreds of thousands of people who are going to 
see that their insurance is lost.

This isn't just the employees. If we look at the private contractor, 
one private contractor was going for a bid, another was bidding for it, 
and at the present time, if that were the circumstance today, the 
responsible contractor who is looking out for their employees with 
health insurance for the families and with a retirement program, they 
would be somewhat higher than the cost of providing service by the 
irresponsible contractor, and they would lose out. So it isn't only the 
workers who are working in the Defense Department but also responsible 
contractors who are providing services for their employees and who 
respect their employees.

If we don't accept this amendment, we are going to see a continuing 
rush to the bottom where it is going to be virtually impossible to get 
these independent contractors to provide any of the kinds of services 
to these families who are working in this country. That isn't what we 
ought to have in terms of the Defense Department rules.



Finally, as I pointed out earlier, but it is worth mentioning again, 
some of the other provisions that basically work for the unfairness of 
those who are working in the Defense Department. If there is an unfair 
decision, the private contractors can appeal that, but the workers over 
here cannot. That isn't fair. This amendment is about fairness, 
treating people fairly.

Renew a contract without recompetition, they can do that. Private 
contractors can do it, but if the Federal workers have that contract, 
they can't do it. We find out for the most competitive bid, there are 
administrative rules and regulations that prohibit Federal employees 
from getting the lowest competitive bid. They know how to do it, they 
want to do it; nonetheless, they are denied the opportunity to do it.

Then we have these quotas that are set by OMB, which is not right. 
They establish so many contractors and so much is virtually prohibited, 
but it has grown into a practice at the present time.

So this amendment is very much about fairness. It is about how we are 
going to treat people who are part of the whole Defense establishment. 
And they are these workers, and they are indispensable. A great 
percentage of them have been a part of the military and have served 
with great distinction for many years. They want to continue that sense 
of patriotism, continue that sense of service, continue that sense of 
giving. The men and women who are in the Armed Forces know they can 
rely on the quality of the work that the individuals do because these 
individuals are highly motivated, highly trained, have been in the 
service, many of them have served for many years, come out of the 
service, have skills, and say: What I would like to do for the rest of 
my career is to be able to continue to give support to those who are on 
the front lines, and they do it. They do it with great distinction, and 
they do it with great expertise and with extraordinary patriotism.

All they are asking for is to have a fair system, to give them a fair 
shake. Give them some respect. Give them the respect they deserve, that 
they should have. Give some respect for their families as well.

So I hope very much we will have good support for this amendment. As 
I mentioned earlier in those particular provisions that we put up about 
disparities between the private contractors and the employees, we have 
had strong bipartisan support for just about every one of those 
provisions, but they have been put on appropriations in the past, and 
therefore at the time the appropriation expires, these provisions 
expire. Now we are back to try to revisit this once again. So there is 
a strong and compelling reason for this amendment.

I thank Senator Lieberman and so many of our cosponsors, including 
Senator Mikulski who has spoken so well and who has been such a strong 
advocate, and so many of our colleagues who have supported the 
different provisions on both sides of the aisle. Hopefully, we will 
have a strong vote in an hour from now for those workers.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.