# None
## `f8ceb72c00ec2469afe8de2d3f08cf86`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to address the House, 
and it's good to be here before we go on 4th of July break to celebrate 
the birthday of this great country.

As you know, in the 30-something Working Group, we come to the floor 
to discuss a number of issues that are facing the American people, and 
also, I think it's important to identify our focus on the issues in 
Iraq and Afghanistan and the issues that are facing the American 
people.

I think, Mr. Speaker, the events over the weekend in Iraq and also in 
Afghanistan even give us further focus on making sure that the issues 
that are facing our men and women that are in harm's way are addressed 
here in the Congress. I think it's also very important for us to focus 
on what has not happened in this Congress as it relates to making sure 
that we meet the needs of our men and women.

We have appropriation bills that have been held up in the process 
that are now moving through the process. It's not because of the 
majority side's lack of will to be able to move them, it's the fact 
that we have some of our friends on the other side of the aisle that 
see it fit to slow the process down, but that argument is for another 
day.

As you know, I'm one of the Members, especially on this side of the 
aisle, that push for bipartisanship. Mr. Speaker, I spend quite a bit 
of time here on the floor talking about how when we work together, 
we're able to move the American agenda forward. And I look forward to 
continuing to stand up on behalf of bipartisanship here in the House to 
accomplish a goal to be able to make sure that our men and women in 
harm's way are able to receive the representation that the American 
people voted for.

Mr. Speaker, I think also what we should touch on is the fact that we 
have sent a number of documents to the White House, and those documents 
happen to be law, or proposed law. We had a bill that passed both House 
and Senate emergency supplemental that had not only benchmarks in it, 
but also withdrawal dates that were sensible and that were timely to 
let the Iraqi Government know that we will not continue to reward a 
lack of action on their side and accomplishment on their side as it 
relates to securing Iraq. That was vetoed by the President. But I can 
say that not one Democrat went to the White House and stood behind the 
President and said that we will stop any override of the President's 
veto.



I am so glad that we did send that bill there to show the American 
people that we are willing to do the things that we need to do.

We also passed a nonbinding resolution against the surge in Iraq, the 
escalation, I must add, in Iraq of U.S. troops and personnel. That was 
a strong message that the American people wanted to send out. That was 
successfully passed. Now, we are going to have two reports when we get 
back July 15, I would say to Mr. Larson, our Vice Chair, in a report in 
September. I think it is going to be very, very important for the 
Members to remember that we are Americans first, Members of Congress. 
Along with that, that first chair that I mentioned, and on the second 
hand, that we are from two different parties, because there are men and 
women who are counting on us to work together.

But those of us on this side of the aisle have to provide the 
leadership. If the leadership doesn't come from the White House, then 
we are here, sent by American taxpayers, American voters, to represent 
them from the said districts that we are from. But it is important that 
we provide that leadership and opportunity.

I would like to yield to my good friend, Mr. John Larson, from the 
great State of Connecticut. He is our Vice Chair of the Democratic 
Caucus. I want to thank you, sir, for your leadership on this very 
issue of Iraq.