# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `f904ef137a21557f1df26ed65df388bb`
`Mr. HAGEL â€” 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Mr. President, there will be no victory or defeat for the 
United States in Iraq. There will not be a military solution to Iraq. 
Iraq belongs to the 25 million Iraqis who live there. It does not 
belong to the United States. Iraq is not a prize to be won or lost.

We can help the people of Iraq, as we have been helping them over the 
last 4 years, with a tremendous amount of our American blood and 
treasure. We have much invested in Iraq. America has strategic 
interests in the Middle East. And we will continue to help the people 
of Iraq, as we will continue to protect our interests and those of our 
allies in the Middle East.

But the future of Iraq, however, will be determined by the Iraqi 
people. The future of Iraq will be determined by a political 
accommodation by the people in Iraq, which will result in a political 
resolution that will be supported by the Iraqi people, its regional 
neighbors, and other powers, including the United States.

After 4 years in Iraq, America's policy there should be designed to 
gradually pull the United States further away from the day-to-day 
responsibilities, those day-to-day responsibilities of defending Iraq 
and de facto governance of Iraq, and turning over those 
responsibilities to the Iraqis, not escalating--not escalating--our 
military involvement in Iraq.

Today, we are headed in the opposite direction. I will not support 
sustaining a flawed and failing policy in Iraq.

We are now in our fifth year in an active war in Iraq. Iraq is more 
dangerous today than at any time in the last 4 years. And--puzzling--
the administration says, we are making real progress in Iraq. So if we 
are making


real progress in Iraq, then why are we putting more and more American 
combat troops into Iraq at the same time our allies are leaving or have 
already left?

The President's strategy is taking America deeper and deeper into 
this quagmire, with no exit strategy.

In January, we were told that 21,500 more U.S. troops would be sent 
to Iraq. This month, we learned that as many as 7,000 more U.S. troops, 
in addition to the 21,500, would be sent to Iraq. The Congressional 
Budget Office has estimated that the President's recent decision to 
escalate our military involvement could require as many as 48,000 
additional U.S. troops in Iraq.

In January, the administration said progress on the Iraq war would be 
measurable by this summer. We have heard that at 6-month intervals for 
the last 2 years in oversight committee hearings. But now we are being 
told that additional troops could be required in Iraq well into next 
year.

This strategy to deepen America's military involvement in Iraq will 
not bring a resolution in Iraq. It will only continue to undermine 
America's standing in Iraq and the Middle East, complicating and 
limiting our diplomatic options, and doing further damage to our 
military. And we continue to finance and build the most powerful and 
unaccountable mercenary armies in history, like Blackwater.

We cannot continue down a path that is destroying our military and 
continuing to place our men and women in uniform in Iraq in the middle 
of a civil war.

In February, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Peter 
Pace, reported to Congress that there is now--his word--a 
''significant'' risk that our military will not be able to respond to 
an emerging crisis in another part of the world. Why did he say that? 
It is because we are overburdened, overstretched. We are breaking our 
force structure--third and fourth tours.

Recently, the inspector general of the Defense Department issued a 
report on our National Guard. Our National Guard--our Army National 
Guard in America is broken. The Chief of Staff of the Army, General 
Schoomaker, has made similar, recent comments in open testimony before 
the Senate Armed Services Committee.

It is now time for the Congress to step forward and establish 
responsible boundaries and conditions for our continued military 
involvement in Iraq. That is our responsibility. Need I remind our 
colleagues in this body, the Congress of the United States is a coequal 
branch of Government with the President of the United States? We not 
only have moral obligations but we have constitutional 
responsibilities.

To hear some of my colleagues say we should dispense with this 
''frivolous'' debate because the President has threatened a veto--what 
a waste of our time--if you logically follow that through, why do we 
need a Congress? Why don't we let the President make all the choices, 
make all the decisions? There are some, I suspect, in this 
administration who would like that, some in this country would like 
that. But we tried a monarchy once. It is not suited to America. There 
are separations of power. Of course there are. But there are three 
coequal branches of Government.

It is now time for the Congress to step forward, after a disastrous 4 
years in Iraq. The language in the Senate supplemental bill does this 
in a responsible way. The Senate language does not cut off funds. It 
does not impose a precipitous withdrawal of troops from Iraq. This 
language establishes a limited U.S. military mission in Iraq: 
counterterrorism, training Iraqi forces, and protecting U.S. personnel. 
That is not new. We have heard that from this administration over the 
last 4 years. This was not dreamed up. This idea that somehow you do 
not support the troops if you do not continue, in a lemming-like way, 
to accept whatever this administration's policy is wrong. That is what 
is wrong, and that is dangerous.

This language establishes a limited U.S. military mission in Iraq 
that focuses on the things we should be doing, we can be doing. This 
new and responsible mission would pull our troops out of the middle of 
Iraq's civil war. Is that wrong? Is there something wrong with that--
asking these young men and women to put their lives on the line in the 
middle of a civil war in Baghdad, kicking down doors, with a bull's eye 
on their back--to pull them out of that? Is that wrong? Does that 
somehow display a cavalier attitude toward the support of our troops? I 
think not. I think just the opposite.

There is a timeline in the Senate language. But it does not establish 
a binding date for U.S. withdrawal from Iraq. Let's get that clear. It 
would establish the goal--those are the terms, goal--a goal that U.S. 
forces not involved in this more limited military mission be redeployed 
by March 2008. Is there something wrong with that? That means March of 
2008 is 5 years we will have been there--5 years. We will have done 
significant damage to our Marines and our Army and our National Guard 
by then.


We have misunderstood, misread, misplanned, and mismanaged our 
honorable intentions in Iraq with an arrogant self-delusion reminiscent 
of Vietnam. Honorable intentions are not policies or plans or 
responsible. It may take many years before there is a cohesive 
political center in Iraq. America's options on this point have always 
been limited.

I support the President's decision to initiate a new diplomatic 
strategy and support a regional diplomatic process on the future of 
Iraq that began on March 10 at the regional security conference in 
Baghdad. But the President must devote his attention to foster those 
efforts. As the Baker-Hamilton report made clear, we must develop a 
regional diplomatic strategy to achieve stability in Iraq.