# None
## `f98eedae5a4686e58c199d918710d8fe`
`Mr. BROWNBACK â€” 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from California 
for her comments. I respect her thoughts and her opinions and her 
consistency of position. I disagree, and I will articulate why on that.

Mr. President, we have been arguing and debating on Iraq for some 
period of time, since we have gone to war, which we did on a bipartisan 
basis, and aggressively decided that this was an important strategy to 
pursue together. We did that 5 years ago. We have invested a lot of 
time and energy and life and blood and limb from this country.

I was with a young man from Wichita, KS, yesterday who has a 
prosthesis on the bottom right of his foot. He was pleased to serve in 
Iraq. He doesn't like it that he has lost his foot, but he wants us to 
win and he wants us to see it on through.

So here we are, 5 years later, a lot of investment, particularly of 
people and lives, and it would seem as if a fair number of people now 
in this body would say: OK, we have done it long enough, let's quit. 
Let's pull on out and let's hope it all works out.

I don't think that is a responsible strategy. If I am hearing the 
people who have served there right, they want to see it through. They 
want to see us win, and they want to see us get it done right. They 
want to see us be able to bring a democracy that can stand on its own--
certainly not perfect, but one that can stand on its own in that region 
of the world. And they don't want to see us lose the investment we have 
made to date. And we have made a heavy investment. They don't want to 
see us walk away from it and say: OK, we didn't get it quite the way we 
wanted to. They do not want to see us walk away at such a point that 
the soldiers or the foreign fighters follow us back here and we see 
another 9/11.


The bottom line is the safety and security of the young people we 
have talked about so much. We want to keep this place safe and secure. 
And one of the best ways to do that is to keep on the offensive.

Mr. President, over the last few years, and particularly this last 
year, we have debated a lot of Iraqi resolutions, and they have all 
failed except one. One resolution has passed. It is the one I want to 
talk about. It is the one I did with Joe Biden, the Biden-Brownback 
resolution on devolving power and authority in Iraq. We voted and voted 
and voted last year. Nothing passed but this one. And because of it, 
what we were talking about is the model of devolving power and 
authority, a federal system, in Iraq.

I have met with Iraqis since that period of time, and a number of 
them have challenged and questioned: OK, is this really the right way 
to go? We don't want to see the country broken up in three parts.

I say: We are not talking about breaking the country up in three 
parts. We have 50 States, and we are one country. We are talking about 
three or five states or regions there but one country. You devolve 
power and authority from the center so it is not just one group, a 
Shiite-dominated central government that is dictating to a Kurdish, 
Sunni, Shiite country. Let's devolve that power and authority out. That 
passed. That passed.

Now, what has happened since that has passed on the ground? Well, we 
are seeing nice progress actually taking place, political progress at 
the local and provincial levels is happening. We saw recently the Iraqi 
Parliament pass a legislative package--three bills together. They did 
something we do here often. You can't get one bill through, you can't 
get two, but three you can somehow get a coalition enough to pass it 
through. That is what they did, establishing the 2008 budget, 
clarifying provincial powers, and then offering amnesty for Sunni 
political prisoners, all three very important.

That middle one, clarifying provincial powers, is a key one. I talked 
with one of the respected scholars on this, Michael O'Hanlin, on the 
phone today. He is one of the authors of the federalism approach in 
Iraq. We have a


military strategy that we are taking advantage of today that is 
providing political space, and he believes we need to devolve authority 
and power to the regions. You are seeing that now taking place 
legislatively by the central body in Iraq, clarifying provincial 
powers.

As I was talking with Mr. O'Hanlin, and also in my own thinking, we 
recently mostly talked about regions, and he is saying: Well, whether 
it is a region or a province, it is devolving of power and authority, 
and it is happening. And it is a good thing to get that out of the 
centralized area. What is allowing that to take place is more local 
governance. It is allowing people, whether they be Sunni or Kurd, or 
Shiite, or in a mixed area, to be able to solve more of their own 
problems rather than being dependent upon the central government that 
may have a bit of ideology or edge that you don't agree with, as 
happens around this country at times where people don't agree with what 
happens at the Federal Government, but they are wanting that decision 
to be made at the State level. That is starting to happen in Iraq. And 
it is diffusing some of the powder keg.

Now, we are far from solving this, but the political space that has 
been granted by the military surge in the area is allowing this 
devolution of power and authority to happen. So we now have clarifying 
provincial powers taking place. The laws, as I mentioned, are not 
perfect, but they are giving this power and authority out to the 
regions. We are now seeing political progress at the local and 
provincial levels, and that is driving some of the politics at the 
national level. None of that could happen without security at the 
national level in Iraq, without U.S. troops there on the ground. Iraqis 
can gain stability by continuing to decentralize and move more power 
closer to individual Iraqis.

I believe provincial elections later this year will accelerate the 
importance of local politics in Iraq, and that is what we want to take 
place because what we were seeing coming together was Shiite against 
Sunni, and the Kurds sitting in the north refereeing from time to time 
but other times staying off to their own and saying: Look, we are just 
going to sit up here and hope someday we will be able to have a nation 
and let those two guys fight. But now, instead, you are seeing this 
going down to Sunni councils and Shiite councils, and in some cases 
mixed neighborhoods.

You do continue to see an ethnic move in neighborhoods, particularly 
in Baghdad, and some going more Sunni and others going more Shiite in 
some regions or some mixed ethnic or other religious communities that 
exist there and some Christian populations that are there. But you are 
seeing it start to work because we continue to provide the security 
umbrella.

Now, let's take the security umbrella off. Let's have the Feingold 
amendment pass and send the signal to the Iraqis that we are moving 
out; that we are going to take care of our own areas, you take care of 
your own areas. What do we think at this most critical moment would 
happen if you pull that security piece out, the U.S. security piece 
out? Well, I think you would stop this move toward local and 
provincial. You invite more Iranian-financed problems into the region, 
in the hopes that the Shiite can take over and then dominate and 
possess all of Iraq--Sunni areas and possibly Kurdish areas as well, 
although they are pretty well fortified amongst themselves. You invite 
Sadr back in with his militia, where he just recently, for another 6 
months, asked his militias to stand down.

I think you invite back into the picture at this key political moment 
for Iraq a bunch of forces that are going to hurt the long-term future. 
And so it seems to me this is a bad idea at a particularly bad time for 
us to pull troops out of Iraq.

Now, I had trouble with the surge at the outset. I really questioned 
whether it was going to work. But the surge has worked, and this is 
coming from somebody who was a cynic as to whether this was going to 
work in that region.

But that, along with the Sunnis deciding, okay, we are going to build 
up our region here, and these awakening councils that have taken place, 
along with evolving this political power and authority, and our better 
counterterrorism strategy. It is working. So why on Earth would we 
change something we have invested so much in now that is starting to 
produce the results we want? Why on Earth would we change that at this 
point in time? That does not seem to make much sense, of why you would 
do that at this point in time.

I am a strong proponent of continuing to devolve this power and 
authority in Iraq. I think it is the way forward for them, as it was 
the way forward for our country when we had 13 original colonies that 
did not necessarily agree with each other but said, okay, let us have 
one Federal Government, but each one of us is going to maintain our own 
power and authority in a number of regions. Then over a period of 
years, we kind of worked things out. Over 50 years we have divided 
power and authority to State and local, Federal Governments, and this 
is going to take time for the Iraqis, but they need the political space 
our military provides. To pull out now, or to send a signal even of 
pulling out now, I think would be very harmful to the long-term 
investment we have made. I think it would send a signal to the region 
that we are going to allow the Iranian influence to spread. It would 
also invite much more aggressive actions, even toward us, and the 
pursuit of us here and other places around the world.

That piece is speculation. We do not know what is going to happen in 
the future. But it does seem as though we are on a sort of track now 
that we can look to the future with some bit of optimism, whereas the 
other route of pulling out would certainly lead to a great deal of 
pessimism by the Iraqis and toward me about what we are going to be 
doing in providing the long-term security for the United States when we 
know that the terrorist objective is to attack and come after us, that 
you are likely to see a devolution to a terrorist state, or an Iranian-
type of satellite state in Iraq if we pull out precipitously, either of 
which are options that I think would be completely wrong for us to do 
as a nation and something I cannot support.

For those reasons, I certainly would be voting against the Feingold 
amendment. I urge my colleagues to do that. I say, let us stick with 
something that is starting to work. It is not perfect. Let us stick 
with something on a political strategy that is starting to work. It is 
not perfect, but we have a model for it ourselves in the United States 
in our own history. It seems this would be a particularly unwise time 
to move off of that one bit of resolution that we have agreed upon, on 
political authority being devolved and to change a strategy on the 
military at this point in time.

I yield the floor.