# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `f9af50b8aba4ad463c9e5fc945bc0a5e`
`Mr. BURGESS â€” 29 July 2009`

---


Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the U.S. House of 
Representatives Republican Leadership standards on earmarks, I am 
submitting the following information regarding one earmark I received 
as part H.R. 3326, The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2010:

(1) Institute for Science and Engineering Simulation (ISES), 
University of North Texas--$6 million--Account: 0602102F Materials--
$4,500,000.

ISES at the University of North Texas is currently working closely 
with the U.S. Air Force to remedy a critical requirement. Due to 
increased operations as a result of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan 
during the past 5 yrs, Air Force aircraft are often pushed to perform 
beyond their intended design criteria: this has created serious 
concerns for safety of both the aircraft and personnel. The Air Force 
requires modeling and simulation research of the performance and 
lifecycles of materials in aircraft in order to extend the life of 
current military aircraft and to perform testing on future aircraft 
structures and material. Utilizing state-of-the-art facilities and 
equipment at the University of North Texas, the research conducted at 
ISES will be used to predict/identify and reduce the risk of 
catastrophic failure in aircraft structural components, extend the life 
of current aircraft and increase the safety of pilots and personnel.

University of North Texas is located at Hurley Administration 
Building 175, Denton, TX 76203-2979.
