# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3222, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `f9f239f6c43672b846cdf56754722cb1`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida â€” 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill. I think this is a very 
good bill.

As has been mentioned during the debate on the rule, maybe someone 
else might have written it a little bit differently. I don't think any 
legislation is ever totally perfect, but this is a good package. It's a 
good bipartisan package. The subcommittee worked hard; had many, many 
hearings; required the military to justify the requests; and we have 
come up with a pretty good bill.

Chairman Murtha has chaired this subcommittee before we became the 
majority, then I chaired the subcommittee for 6 years, now he is 
chairman again. We have always worked this bill together in the best 
interests of the United States of America and the troops who provide 
our defense and that support us.

Mr. Murtha mentioned the pay raise. Yes, we did give a pay raise. We 
wish we could have given more. But the 3.5 percent was more than was 
requested in the budget request.

We are also providing funding for increasing the size of our 
military. And I don't think anyone would deny the fact that our 
military is tired. They are being used and deployed a lot. And so I 
think it is appropriate that we increase the size of military, 
especially the Army and the Marine Corps.

Some other things were mentioned by the Members speaking on the rule, 
so I'm not going to repeat them, but I will submit for the Record a 
written statement.

But there are two points that I want to make: one is, as Mr. Murtha 
suggested briefly, the growth in shipbuilding. Do you remember 
President Ronald Reagan thought that the United States should have a 
600-ship Navy to guarantee that we had free access to the international 
waters of this planet of ours? If we don't take the direction that this 
subcommittee recommends, we would be below 300 ships in our Navy, and 
that is not big enough.

And so we provide the LPD-17 that was requested by the 
administration. We provide advance funding, which is in addition to the 
request, advance funding for a second LPD-17, which the Navy strongly 
supports. But one of the Navy's premier programs is the Littoral Combat 
Ship, the LCS. We provided for four ships; the other body did not have 
the same number. We prevailed, and the funding for up to four ships 
that the Navy really feels they need for naval superiority are in this 
bill.

Now the last point that I want to make, Mr. Speaker. So many times in 
our hearings soldiers who would fight on the ground, marines who would 
invade on the beaches have told us over and over again that they will 
go anywhere that their country sends them, they will fight any fight 
that their country asks them to fight, but when they do, if there is an 
aircraft overhead, they want that aircraft to be an American airplane 
manned by an American crew.

Our air superiority weapon today is the F-15, a very, very good 
aircraft, but very old. The F-15 is older than some of the Members in 
this Chamber. The F-15 is now suffering some metal fatigue. And as you 
know, the F-15 fleet has been grounded because one of our planes 
basically came apart in midair in Missouri. And so we provide funding 
for the F-22, which is the follow-on to the F-15, an aircraft that will 
guarantee America's air superiority. So it's important that we fund 
this package of fighter aircraft. It is important that if we send a 
soldier or marine or any member of our military services to war, that 
the air over head will be controlled by the United States of America 
and not by an enemy. And so this bill goes a long way towards 
accomplishing air superiority.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the conference report on Defense 
appropriations for fiscal year 2008.

This agreement totals over $459 billion, and is $3.5 billion below 
the President's request. However, it is almost $40 billion above the 
fiscal year 2007 level. It contains $11.6 billion in emergency funding 
for additional MRAP vehicles for use by the Army and Marines in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

This conference report provides for a number of Presidential and 
Congressional priorities, including: $6 billion in equipment to 
increase the size of the Army and Marine Corps; restoration of the $1.9 
billion cut in the Defense Health program associated with proposed 
increases in insurance co-payments that have not been authorized by 
Congress; an additional $980 million in equipment for the National 
Guard and Reserve, which is important for disaster response throughout 
the country, including the Gulf Coast; full funding for the 
Congressionally proposed 3.5 percent pay increase for the military; 
$4.1 billion for continued development of the Joint Strike Fighter and 
$3.1 billion to procure twenty F-22 aircraft; the F-22 program becomes 
even more important with the revelation that some F-15s are 
experiencing metal fatigue; procurement and advance procurement for 10 
ships for the
Navy, including initial funding for the next-generation 
aircraft carrier.


 There is one item not in this conference agreement that I wish we 
were addressing today. For the past 3 years we have provided a Bridge 
Fund to allow the Defense Department to finance war on terror 
operations until enactment of a supplemental appropriations bill in the 
spring. Last year's bridge totaled $70 billion for 6 months of war 
operations and was broadly supported by both sides of the aisle. This 
conference report contains no such funding.

When this Defense conference report is enacted into law, Defense 
spending will drop out of the continuing resolution. So will funding 
under the fiscal year 2007 Bridge Fund. Without this authority, the 
Department of Defense will be forced to use base funds to support the 
operations of the global war on terror. By mid to late January, the 
Army will run out of money.

We need to move quickly in the next few weeks to address this 
shortfall. Our troops in the field need our support, no matter what 
position we take on the war.

I know there are many on the other side of the aisle that do not want 
to support war on terror funding. Ironically, by voting for this 
conference report without a Bridge Fund, everyone voting for this bill 
will be effectively voting to support war operations. The question is 
whether we do so by forcing the Department to use base funds in this 
bill, or by enacting a Bridge Fund, or by allowing current rates to 
continue until enactment of a supplemental appropriations bill.

Aside from that, however, I want to reiterate my support for this 
conference
report. I appreciate the cooperation and courtesy shown by 
my Chairman, Mr. Murtha, throughout this process.


I also want to thank the members of the Defense subcommittee for 
their contributions to this conference report, especially those on the 
Republican side of the aisle. Mr. Hobson, Mr. Frelinghuysen, Mr. 
Tiahrt, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Kingston, and the ranking member of the full 
committee, Mr. Lewis, all made important contributions to this 
legislation.

 Mr. Speaker, again I want to say that I strongly support this 
legislation, and urge its adoption by the House.