# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `fa9015667e9ff9c8b5dae80eb0715be2`
`Mr. LARSON of Connecticut â€” 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, today we will vote on a 
historic piece of legislation that will refocus American foreign policy 
and forge a true partnership with Pakistan and its people. H.R. 1886, 
the Pakistan Enduring Assistance and Cooperation Enhancement Act of 
2009, will triple U.S. economic assistance to Pakistan, with a focus on 
the rights of women and religious minorities, strengthening democratic 
institutions, and improving Pakistan's public education system.

I am especially proud to pass this bill because of its focus on 
public education. The Enduring Assistance and Cooperation Enhancement 
Act will help Pakistan develop a national curriculum for public, 
private and religious schools and will expand educational opportunities 
for women and girls. I recently read a very important book; Three Cups 
of Tea is an inspirational story about a journey to Pakistan and the 
feats of one of the most inspirational people of our generation: Greg 
Mortenson. Upon my visit to Afghanistan several months ago, I saw the 
truth in Mortenson's message: that the poverty and lack of opportunity 
in countries like Pakistan and Afghanistan can incite hatred against 
the United States and lead to acts of terrorism. That is why I am proud 
of my colleagues for realizing that sticks, alone, will not fight 
terrorism. We can also fight terrorism by building schools, buying 
books, and helping children--especially girls--increase life's 
prospects through education. I commend Chairman Berman for introducing 
this important bill and urge my colleagues to join me in passing it and 
helping bring peace, stability, and opportunity to Pakistan's people.