# None
## `fb04cd3e83ad38c3ebb7ca93bad9d023`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. The thing about it and the thing about what we 
work on and what we meet on, and after we leave the floor I need to 
talk to you even further about this issue, because, Mr. Speaker, the 
President was on the road and saying, well, I'm going to veto the 
interest rate cut that the Democratic Congress passed because it 
doesn't help enough needy kids that are presently in college.

Well, this is the same President who said we're going to be treated 
as liberators when we were in Iraq.

This is the same President that has said that investing in big oil 
will be able to assist us to be energy independent when big oil made 
nothing but profits after the White House meeting.

This is the same President that said he was going to treat anyone in 
the White House that outed an CIA agent in a way that they should be 
treated, and then later let that person off the hook through his 
executive power.

This is the same President that has said that we need to send an 
escalation of troops to Iraq and we'll see a safer Iraq; that we've 
seen otherwise, some 500-plus men and women in uniform that have lost 
their lives since that surge.

This is the same President that goes on and on and on talking about 
how he's going to increase Pell Grants when he hasn't done that.

This is the same President that said that 9/11, that we are going to 
implement this Department of Homeland Security and said there was no 
need to pass all of the 9/11 recommendations. That still hasn't made it 
to his desk yet, that we want to get passed, that this Democratic 
Congress passed.

This is the same President that told folks to go shopping after 9/11 
when he had the opportunity to move this country in a new direction, 
bring us together, help our economy, and the Americans were ready to do 
what they needed to do.

And this is the same President saying I'm going to veto a bill that's 
going to cut student loan rates not only for students, I will go 
further as a parent to say, for parents and grandparents that are 
helping children that are now coming out of college that are more in 
debt now than ever because the Federal Government is not there for 
them. If we're not there for them, then the State government can't be 
there for them because they have to cut, and guess where the first 
place is they go. They go to students and cut back.

So I'm about full right now of the American spirit and say that I 
hope that our leadership here in the House, with the President, you 
spoke of politics saying it's a great thing to run on. I always said 
this whole Iraq issue, if we see more and more pictures like this, 
Republican leadership leading their caucus down to the White House 
saying we stand with the President and making sure that the Congress 
doesn't override his original thoughts or what he feels should be, the 
White House is not to be used as the Republican National Committee 
instrument or the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee. This is 
about the American people and what we do.

So, the President, this is his last day of school. This is the last 
month of school. He's about to move on. He's about to become a private 
citizen. Those of us that are in Congress, if the American people that 
allow us to come back after 2008, will be here to govern this country, 
and guess what, this is not the last day of school for Americans.

So, when we talk about cutting student loan rates in half and the 
President starts using all kinds of, I start to go back to the big oil 
argument. What,


did the banks have a special meeting at the White House, saying we 
can't allow this to happen; you got to stand in the schoolhouse door; 
and will they be able to motivate these Members to go back to the White 
House and say we stand with the President? How many times?

So, Mr. Speaker, I know that the bold leadership we have here in the 
House, if he vetoes this bill, which I don't want him to do, I hope he 
signs it, and we're able to provide the assistance to these individuals 
that are in all of our districts, Republican and Democrats. This is not 
for Democratic kids. This is for all kids, for all families, for all 
working people. If he does it, I hope that within the hour that he does 
it that we have something here on this floor, and we'll separate the 
Members from the followers here on both sides of the aisle.

And when we passed this bill, I know you brought this issue up, but 
when we passed this bill, there was 143 Republicans that voted against 
it, just enough to withstand. One, one over to be able to hold off a 
presidential override. That's a gut check there, Mr. Speaker. I wonder 
how many of those 143 are going to be with the President in not 
allowing American families to have a cut in financial aid.

I want their constituents to pay very close attention on whose side 
you're on. Are you on the bank's side or are you on the American people 
side?