# PROGRESSIVE CAUCUS
## `fb3dfe3c7510ef9af8b418c76765706b`
`Mr. McDERMOTT â€” 5 March 2009`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Well, I have to commend you for coming out here and 
talking about the defense budget.

There's a lot of talk in Congress about entitlements. When we talk 
about entitlements, people think, oh, you mean Medicare and you mean 
welfare and you mean Social Security and all these things, but there 
is, in fact, a defense entitlement in this country. It's as though the 
Defense Department is entitled to get more and more money every year. 
And anything anybody can think up for a new defense system, we wind it 
up, whether it makes any sense or not.

Now, if you look at the wars that we've been involved in or the 
military actions that we've been involved in, they have not been 
standard wars where tanks are facing tanks or machine guns; it has been 
mostly counterinsurgency, guerrilla-type events. And we continue to 
spend huge amounts of money on a variety of weapons that simply don't 
deal with what the country is facing today. And I think that the most 
egregious example of this was when the last administration decided that 
Iran was a problem; therefore, we have to have a missile defense system 
in Europe against Iran. So we went to the Czech Government, we leaned 
on them. They said, okay, you can have a tracking station here. And we 
went to the Poles and said, we're going to put missiles right on the 
border with Russia.

Now, first of all, they've made Iran into a boogyman. And they began 
to create a defense, and suddenly we're selling and we're putting all 
this stuff out there, and lo and behold, the Russians don't like it. 
Now, is that any surprise? If you were a sovereign country and somebody 
came and put missiles right on your border, how can you possibly think 
that that wouldn't be responded to by the Russians?

The next thing we know, they go into Georgia. And everybody's all up 
in arms and saying, oh, my goodness, my goodness, what are they doing 
going into Georgia? Well, if you go on a pretext to go into Iraq and 
attack Iraq, the Russians say, look, we went into a next-door neighbor 
that asked for our help. You went 9,000 miles to a place that wasn't 
asking for it.



So the military use of our power, in my view, has been greatly 
exaggerated in its real importance. What we need today is soft power.

I was just in Iraq, and I think that President Obama, one of the 
things that will be his toughest jobs is to get back control of 
reconstruction from the military. We fill the military budget with all 
this money and expect them to go out and build sewer systems and water 
systems and all these other things.

That's not what the military's job is. That should be the job of 
USAID and the State Department, and it shouldn't be done by soldiers.

Now, as long as we inflate the military budget and don't put the 
money over into the areas where it's really needed, we are not going to 
change the political climate in these countries. Whether you are 
talking about Iraq or whether you are talking about Afghanistan or a 
lot of places, you can talk about Pakistan, what we do is we give them 
a lot of money from the military budget to buy military equipment from 
the United States.

And, in my view, in the long run, we are not safer. The question is, 
are we developing a system that makes us secure? And just having tanks 
everywhere and Humvees and all this kind of stuff does not make us 
safer.

What should be done with our money is to look at what's happening to 
these countries who are economically being destroyed by this world 
economic situation and dealing with helping them reconstruct their 
country. Now, the irony of being in Iraq this weekend was realizing 
that we were rebuilding things that we bombed and destroyed. The 
question comes to your mind, well, what did we get out of that except a 
lot of destruction and a lot of ways to spend money in this country?

The Inspector General was out there on the trip with us, and here we 
have military colonels, you have got a colonel that was just sentenced 
to 9 years in a Federal penitentiary for taking a $7 million bribe in 
Iraq. Another colonel and his wife and his sister-in-law were taking 
bribes and running them through their church, trying to hide them by 
washing them through the church that they belonged to.

This is what is needed in oversight and a clear plan for what we are 
trying to do with our money. We have thrown money away endlessly. Talk 
about waste, fraud and abuse, the military, in my view, is as ripe for 
an investigation as any part of government. Before we expand the 
budget, we ought to look at and have investigations, as Harry Truman 
did, after the Second World War. He made his reputation on looking at 
the misexpenditure of money in the Second World War, and that's what 
ought to be going on now.

We are simply bloating the budget around issues that do not make us 
more secure and make us, actually, more enemies in the world. For that 
reason I think your examination, the Progressive Caucus examination of 
the budget is extremely important.

I think that this is an issue, obviously, people, as you point out, 
have jobs. People make a living making war machinery. But there have to 
be other things they can make, maybe things related to green energy, or 
there's a lot of other places that the workers in this country, with 
all their creativity, could be put to work rather than simply building 
more and more arms to sell around the world and for us to use in 
various situations.

We are talking about leaving Iraq. But one of the soldiers said to 
me, if we are getting ready to leave Iraq, why are we still building 
buildings like that one over there, what are we building for?

It is a really good question. I mean, if you listen to the soldiers, 
they can see that lots of money is being spent wastefully. There is a 
tower, a control tower for an airport in Iraq. We spent $14 billion 
building a control tower for a field where there are two helicopters, 
two helicopters.

Now, you ask yourself, what was that tower built for and why was it 
built there? And these kinds of questions aren't being asked, and I 
think that's why it's important that the budget that the Progressive 
Caucus is putting out is really raising a whole series of issues, and I 
think that the members of the caucus, of the larger Democratic Caucus, 
should think long and hard about how much money is put into the 
military budget.

At a time when we need things all across this country in terms of 
health and infrastructure and education, all these issues are going to 
be sacrificed to the defense entitlement. And Members have to ask 
themselves are we going to continue to feed the military monster or are 
we going to take some of it away and deal with the domestic problems of 
Americans today. So I thank you for the opportunity to talk about it, 
and I think the American people should be listening and thinking about 
what makes sense, what makes us safer?

I served in the military, so I am not against war. I am not some kind 
of a crazy peacenik that thinks you never go to war.

I served during the Vietnam era. I took care of casualties, so I know 
there is no glory in war, and I know what happens to those casualties 
when they come back to the United States. We are creating, by this war, 
a lot of costs in the future that no one is willing really to talk 
about. They said today in the newspaper that there may be as many as 
300,000 brain injuries from this war.

And you think about what that's going to mean as we try to deal with


those veterans over the next 30 or 40 years. These kids are 20, 30 
years old. They are going to live to 70, so we are looking at least to 
40 years, and that is a cost that's built into this kind of behavior.

I think it really has to be carefully examined, and I think that 
Barack Obama is correct in bringing as many of those troops home. I 
think he should bring them all home, but he is talking about bringing 
100,000 home and leaving 50,000 over there. I don't know what for. Is 
that just kind of for them to sit around and if something happens 
somewhere they will go jump out and do something?

They said they are going to be for training police and training the 
Army, 50,000 advisers? It doesn't make sense. So thank you for raising 
this issue. I think it's important that you take an hour tonight and 
talk about it.