# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `fb49cc6830f84a71ad16c7c6dcbaffcb`
`Mr. RENZI â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. RENZI. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the dialogue, and I thank the 
gentleman from California. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I also could benefit from the wisdom of the gentleman from Maryland. 
In defense of my neighbor from New Mexico, she articulately pointed out 
that the resolution also talks about the fact that the flawed language 
in this resolution, and I quote, says that Congress disapproves of 
deploying more than 20,000 additional United States combat troops to 
Iraq.

Certainly you do not disapprove of the several thousand troops that 
will be sent to al-Anbar province. I mean, after all, that is where we 
are engaging al Qaeda, the folks who attacked us. I mean, after all, 
that is where the generals are asking for those several thousand 
troops.

So you throw out a number of 20,000 troops. Not all of them are going 
to downtown Baghdad. Many of them are going to al-Anbar. A funny thing 
about al-Anbar province and Fallujah. The tribal authorities in that 
area who were with al Qaeda have now turned against al Qaeda. They are 
looking to join the American forces. They are looking to take advantage 
of this new enthusiasm, this new troop deployment.

Certainly when you put down 20,000 troops, you don't mean the 4,000 
or 5,000 going to fight al Qaeda that attacked us. Do you? Because that 
portion of the resolution is flawed.

I was recently in Iraq and had the honor of meeting Major General 
Moore. Major General Moore reminded me, ''Al Qaeda is a hyena waiting 
in the dark, ready to rip apart innocent Americans. And they are 
coming. We need to be lions, fiercely defending our people, ferocious 
in the face of enemy.''

You know, unfortunately, this nonbinding resolution is a political 
whimper rather than a roar of support for our troops. The language 
undermines our battlefield plans, it fails to offer any alternatives, 
it offers no hope, encourages no victory, and contains no solutions.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution is a cruel message to our brave soldiers 
on the front lines and it undermines their fighting spirit and their 
morale. It pushes for an abrupt exit to Iraq, sidesteps the dire 
consequences of leaving Iraq, not just of the country but of the 
people.

On a recent trip to Baghdad I was stunned by the honorable Iraqi 
families who live in the Sunni-Shia fault line neighborhoods, families 
who have lived together despite ethnic differences and religious 
differences. These are neighborhoods that are a model for religious 
tolerance. Can you imagine enduring religious bigotry and living 
peacefully alongside a different Muslim sect, and yet in exchange for 
your moderation and understanding your family is hunted, you are forced 
to move by armed militia at gunpoint, and these are the same radicals 
that pursue and round up your husbands and your sons and torture them 
and kill them?



And then you are left as a single mother in downtown Baghdad with 
children, and all you have to hold on to is a fledgling government and 
American soldiers, these same American soldiers that are already 
deployed and being sent and are already on their way to Baghdad to 
protect your home and your children's future. And yet this morning you 
awake in Baghdad, you await the news of politicians in Washington 
arguing about taking away this little bit of security that you have.

And if you can't imagine that, and a lot us have traveled together 
who have been to the Iran-Iraq border, go with me to al-Kut, where we 
are developing evidence of Iran's active engagement in exporting 
weapons and money and support for radical Islamists. Could the news be 
true that the Americans are talking about leaving the border, about 
leaving the several hundred El Salvadoran and multinational forces that 
are serving there with us? Those are the El Salvadorans from our own 
hemisphere. These are the El Salvadorans that survived death squads in 
their own country. These are the El Salvadorans who will return home. 
And what will they say about America? Did we leave too soon? Did we 
leave that border unguarded? Did we turn it over to the Iranians? Did 
we allow that little city called al-Kut to revert back to the city 
named ''Little Teheran''?

The State Department has warned us that a retreat of American 
military forces at this time could trigger ethnic cleansing. The 
resulting humanitarian crisis could be one of the worst in the region, 
and genocide could trigger a refugee exodus into Jordan and Syria and 
the surrounding regions.

My friends, should we lose our resolve, it is likely death squads 
will roam and will become immediately more emboldened and more 
murderous, and what is now referred to as violence in Baghdad will 
quickly regress into mass killings.

Mr. Speaker, genocide is what caused our involvement in the Clinton 
administration to put us into Bosnia. Eventually the cry from mass 
slaughter of innocent civilians in Baghdad could cause us to reenter 
Iraq. We need to take responsibility, all of us, for our words and our 
actions. We need to understand the effect this flawed resolution has on 
the morale of our soldiers overseas, and the effect it will have on the 
desires of our allies to team with us in the future.

Finally, we need to take responsibility, all of us, for the 
encouragement this resolution gives to our enemies.

I was up in Bilad recently with General McCrystal. After a long 
briefing and discussion, we were ready to depart the region and General 
McCrystal said to me, You know, tell the folks back home that I am 
going to stay and fight until somebody makes me leave.

General McCrystal, today we are trying to stop that from happening 
until your work is done.

Mr. Speaker, the American people must demand that the authors of this 
resolution tell us what their better plan is for al Anbar province. 
Tell us what your better plan is for the tribal authorities who have 
just joined us in the fight against al Qaeda in our national interests. 
Tell us, my colleagues, explain to me the consequences of withdrawing 
from downtown Baghdad and the slaughter that that could have on the 
tens of thousands of innocent families.

Tell me what we say to the Salvadorans serving with us on the Iraq-
Iranian border if we are about to leave that border unguarded. Please 
explain to me how this measure of discouragement, this flawed 
resolution, doesn't affect the performance and the morale of our 
troops. Please tell me how this political debate doesn't weaken the 
resolve of our country to win, to endure, and to prevail.