# THE 30 SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `fbbe947fe5136a722ac262a8b183f1a0`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Mr. Ryan, and I want to 
thank the Members and Mr. Altmire for hosting this hour and anchoring 
this hour for us. It is always good to see Ms. Wasserman Schultz. She 
has been busy. There are a lot of appropriations bills coming through 
the floor. And Mr. Murphy has so much to offer to this 30-something.

Mr. Ryan, I appreciate the fact that you took us down Memory Lane, 
especially what this administration has done. Being one that pays 
attention to history and appreciates those that have contributed to 
this country, whether it be in battle or service in the military and 
those families that are waiting for their loved ones to come home, 
whether it be a son or a daughter or a sister or a brother or a mother, 
waiting, I think it is important for us to recognize right here in the 
moment, I can't help but think and reflect on the contributions of 
those Americans before me, the sacrifices that they have made that was 
just regular order that we call here in Congress, it was just another 
day. But these were heroes and sheroes that stood on behalf of this 
country and wanted to carry out the will of the American 
people. Sometimes we get caught up here in Washington about what we 
think. I think it's important to note that seven out of 10 Americans 
have a bad feeling about what is going on in Iraq, the direction that 
we are going in. This New Direction Congress has tried to steer this 
administration in the right direction, but I'm just going to put it on 
the lap of those that are in Congress. The President is not running 
again.


I actually got up pretty early this morning and had a chance to go 
down to Morning Journal and have a chance to sit there and take calls 
from the American people. As you know, you get a cross section of 
Democrats, Republicans, independents, what have you.

But I think it is very, very important for us to realize, four 
Republicans tonight voted in the affirmative on H.R. 4156, which is the 
Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act of 2008. I 
think it is important that people note that in that bill, it put forth 
$50 billion under the $200 billion that the President called for. And 
the veto that you were talking about a little earlier as it relates to 
the health centers, as it relates to the research that has to take 
place dealing with the illness that many Americans are facing, family 
members that have cancer right now that need that research, need those 
dollars. The President vetoes those dollars.

So I think it is important for the Members here on the floor and the 
Members that are listening to what we are saying here on the floor and 
the staff members that are listening and the Americans that are 
listening that we pay very close attention. Everyone has to be a part 
of this paradigm shift in Washington, DC. It just can't be the majority 
we have here in the House and the one majority we have in the Senate, 
because if we had 60 votes, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, we would be able to 
move the agenda that the American people call for.

So my contribution tonight would be to, well, one, to our Republican 
friends on the other side of the aisle that don't allow us to have 
enough votes to be able to override the President, that the American 
people will hold them in judgment. To the Members in the Senate that 
feel that whatever the reason may be to not allow us to override the 
President, because the President is not running again, but you are, 
that the American people, independent, Republican, Democrat, first-time 
voter will let their voice be heard in 2008. That's the good thing 
about this whole thing, the fact that I know in this democracy that 
people are paying attention to what is going on.

You cannot justify, ladies and gentlemen, when you look in the face 
of 10 million children that have to receive health care and say that, 
well, it's okay for the President to veto and for me to stand by the 
President and not by those children, it's okay for us to continue on in 
a war with no accountability, and then we have the Blackwater incident, 
and then we have other incidents that are there. So the only thing that 
I am excited about is the fact that the American people are paying 
attention. But if it was about politics, I would just sit in my office 
and allow the President to do what he does and a very small majority as 
it relates to Republicans standing by the President because I know one 
day the Americans will rise up and the American spirit will rise up and 
we will see a different America. That is what I am praying for and I am 
hoping for very soon.

Mr. Ryan, I think you are 110 percent right. I think we need to 
remind the Members of the past. We need to make sure that we recognize 
those Members that were once Members of Congress but decided to follow 
the President, and the American people took them out of office, and as 
far as I am concerned, if you don't want to stand on behalf of those 
that sent us here, then you are making a career decision. The bottom 
line is we have men and women in harm's way right now.