# IRAQ
## `fc1ad8d6b85d8d836c2acfa75b7c1604`
`Mr. MARTINEZ â€” 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. MARTINEZ. Mr. President, I follow the remarks of my colleague 
from Texas regarding the situation in Iraq and our own situation as it 
relates to that effort. I wish to pick up on what he said, which is 
that for so long in the history of our Nation, politics ended at the 
water's edge. I wish we could go back to the days when we would look at 
our troops fighting overseas in an effort as significant as this is--
the current war against radical Islam--as something that could unite us 
all as Americans, where we might shed party labels and also shed 
personal political ambition.

I cannot help but notice, as the Senator from Texas was recounting 
all of the various plans that have been proposed from the other side, 
that most of them seemed to come from those labeled as a Presidential 
candidate. It seems everybody tried to have a different nuance on yet 
another micromanaging strategy to satisfy their personal political 
goals.

So how do we serve our national interests best? We should not be 
fighting a war from the political landscape of Washington. That is a 
recipe for defeat. We should follow the strategy of General Petraeus, 
who is in the field, who is the allied commander of our troops in Iraq, 
who does believe the current strategy we are following is one that has 
a reasonable chance for success. There is no guarantee, but it has a 
reasonable chance for success. That strategy has now been unfolding for 
several days. There has been a change on the ground. It is a strategy I 
know many forget, but it has multiprongs to it. It is not just the 
military reinforcements over Baghdad and the Iraqi forces taking the 
lead in Baghdad with our support, but it also has a political and an 
economic component. The political component--and I had to look for it 
because it was not on the front page--was that the Iraqi Cabinet 
approved yesterday an oil-sharing agreement for their country, which 
now goes to the Iraqi Parliament for their approval. That is one of the 
key cornerstones of beginning to achieve a political settlement--
reaching an accord on the sharing of oil revenue--so there can be a 
sense of nationhood, so there can be a coming together of the different 
factions within Iraq. It is a very important component of a political 
settlement. I know other settlements are being added to the military 
and, at the same time, we understand some of those folks we would not 
want to be partners with. There are elements from the old Baathist Army 
that can be incorporated. Most of these are Sunnis, which is leading to 
a greater sense of confidence in the Sunni population. We see shifting 
and changing on the ground. We see that al-Sadr is taking a slightly 
different approach. He is anti-American, but at the same time the 
streets of Baghdad seem to be a tad quieter.

We have a long way to go, but we are making some progress. I believe 
it is important we note even the small measures of progress. I know our 
troops on the ground, our brave men and women fighting in Iraq, do 
notice these changes and understand they make a difference in the lives 
of the Iraqis. When our men and women who volunteer to serve our Nation 
are deployed and they go into battle, they should never for a moment 
have any hesitation in their minds or wonder whether they will have the 
tools they need to successfully perform their mission while defending 
themselves and the civilians they are working to protect.


The concept of opposing the war but supporting our troops seems 
untenable, when part of that same plan is one that will not allow 
reinforcements into battle, will not allow the equipment necessary, and 
has been described as a slow-bleed strategy. That kind of a strategy 
accomplishes nothing toward victory, and it does damage our troops, 
their morale and their mission.

Our President is the Commander in Chief. He is the leader of our 
Nation's military. Congress voted to authorize the President under the 
present circumstances. Resolutions in Washington of all flavors and 
varieties might make for good politics, but they do not make good sense 
as a military policy and a strategy for success. We only have one 
Commander in Chief at a time. Our Nation only has one Commander in 
Chief, and to micromanage our troops in the field is not what was ever 
intended by the constitutional responsibilities that divide the powers 
within our Government.

My colleague from Texas talked about Chairman Levin's comments. He 
made other comments in that interview. This was Sunday on ''Meet The 
Press.'' He said:




 We are trying to tie the hands of the President and his 


 policy.


I will repeat that:




 We are trying to tie the hands of the President and his 


 policy. We are trying to change the policy. And if someone 


 wants to call that ''tying the hands'' instead of changing 


 policy, yes, the President needs a check and balance.


I don't think that is a check and balance that was envisioned by our 
Constitution and Founding Fathers--tying the hands of the Commander in 
Chief in a time of war, while our troops are deployed and are shedding 
blood in battle. That is not what our Constitution ever intended.

Is it appropriate for Congress to tie the hands of the Commander in 
Chief in a time of war? I would say no. I believe most Floridians would 
agree with that--that this is not the time to tie the hands of the 
Commander in Chief. Should we keep the Commander in Chief from 
reinforcing our troops? In the judgment of military leaders, such as 
General Petraeus, the reinforcements are necessary, needed, and they 
are part of what will give us an opportunity for success. Should we 
keep the Commander in Chief from reinforcing these troops? The answer 
to that is also no. Under article I, section 8, of the Constitution, 
with regard to the Armed Forces, Congress is given the power of the 
purse and only the power of the purse. We have the responsibility to 
fully provide funding for our military forces, especially when they are 
at war and in harm's way, defending our Nation.

So what is the President's role in all of this? Article II, section 
2, of the Constitution says the President is the ''Commander in Chief 
of the Army and Navy of the United States.'' He has command over the 
Armed Forces. He has the power and authority to deploy troops. He has 
the power and authority to direct military campaigns during wartime. 
For the Congress to tie the President's hands is not the right thing to 
do. It is outside the scope of what the Congress is supposed to do. 
This is not the checks and balances intended by our Founding Fathers. 
In a time of war, the Congress should only support our President, try 
to unite behind our troops and unite behind our effort. Our job is not 
to micromanage the handling of a war.

Another theory that has been advanced is we should continue to fight 
al-Qaida but not be involved in a civil war. I have not understood how 
we can have a strategy in a place that is as complex as Iraq is today 
to fight against one set of insurgents and not against another. We do 
know that a chaotic Iraq would be nothing but a haven for al-Qaida. We 
know that al-Qaida is resurging and reorganizing; our recent 
intelligence reports indicate that. Nothing would be more appealing or 
pleasing to them than to, first of all, validate their strategy, which 
is to create such an uproar in American politics through the deaths of 
our men and women in uniform and to end the resolve of our Nation so we 
would not continue to be steadfast in our resolve. This has been their 
avowed and professed strategy.

I believe for us to do anything other than continue forward in this 
hopeful effort for a victorious outcome would be nothing short of 
giving in to al-Qaida's strategy--their professed strategy. There is 
only one option, which has to do with the funding of our troops. I go 
back to the Gregg resolution. Senator Gregg had a resolution, and it 
was simply that we would support our troops. Our troops are in battle; 
we are in a time of war. This Congress sent them into battle by 
allowing the President to have the authority to do so. So at this time, 
the only resolution that I think is appropriate is the Gregg 
resolution, which has been discussed but not debated on the floor of 
the Senate. I look forward to an opportunity to have a full debate on 
that resolution. Hopefully, the leadership will allow it to come to the 
floor for a full debate and a vote.