# None
## `fc8173c5f4dd5f8fc639c1ecf5a4acf9`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, I agree with everything you just said, 
outside of throwing the kids in the back of the mini van; us parents, 
we don't do that.

But let me just say real quickly that we look at common sense and we 
look at the needs of the American people. They want to know what's 
happening. Every time they look at that gas price board that's in front 
of the gas station they're thinking about, who's running the 
government? They're thinking about, who's overseeing this? Who's in a 
magic room somewhere pushing up these gas prices? And I think it's 
important that we understand that it's bigger than a debate, that this 
is really dealing with folks having to park their car. This is dealing 
with folks who are going through some real hard times. And we have to 
make sure that we stand up for them.

Now, the President may wait a little while and say, well, I'm not 
going to do what the Speaker asked to do, suspending filling the 
Strategic Reserve, I'm not going to do it. Maybe he may do it now, I 
don't know. The first quarter report has come out on the oil revenues. 
Maybe that may happen, I don't know. I'm not saying that that's the 
motivation, I'm just saying that the American people need some relief 
and they need it now. And hopefully they will be able to get it sooner 
than later because we're having folks, from rising food costs, rising 
energy costs, finding themselves in a situation where they can't even 
afford to drive to work or to get their children to school.

Also, Mr. Ryan, as I spoke before about our friends on the other side 
of the aisle, our Republican leadership, we definitely want them to 
work with us as it relates to driving these energy costs down and then 
going after the individuals that may have something to do with jacking 
up the price on the American people. Last week, I talked about the fact 
that a gallon of gas in Iraq costs, I believe it was between $1.30 and 
$1.55. Here in the United States, it costs a lot more. And we all know 
what those costs are, people are reminded every day when they have to 
go to the pump. I have constituents that are putting something on it 
every day. When I say ''putting something on it,'' they can't afford to 
fill their whole tank up. They're putting in $5, $6, whatever the case 
may be, and just getting less than a gallon and a half of gas because 
that's all they can afford. And especially for those individuals that 
have stepped over their budget, taking the credit card out, filling it 
up with a credit card. That soon adds up because it's not within their 
budget to pay the $24 or the $50 they have to pay on these credit 
cards.

But I go back to say that fuel in Iraq is a lot cheaper than it is 
here in the United States. And the U.S. military is spending in the 
neighborhood of $3 and change in filling a gallon of gas in the same 
country. So when we start looking out how we're helping Iraq and how 
Iraq is assisting and appreciating our help, we also have to look at 
the difference and the disparity in the cost of gas between what our 
troops and civilian personnel have to pay for a gallon of gas there and 
what everyday Iraqis pay.

So when we look at it from the big picture, Mr. Ryan, we have to look 
at it from the executive branch level. And I think it's important that 
the President looks at all of this and takes it all into consideration. 
But we do need some action.

We talk about a commonsense approach--I said it earlier, I'll say it 
again--on the No Oil Producing and Exploiting Cartels Act, I think it's 
important that we see the passage of H.R. 2264 that has passed this 
House. And the Republican leadership has voted against. When you look 
at the Energy Price Gouging Act, you have to look at it for what it's 
worth. And this legislation will reduce the burden of rising gas prices 
on American families by providing immediate relief to consumers by 
giving the Federal Trade Commission authority to investigate and punish 
those who artificially inflate gas prices. I mean, I want that, I want 
it


bad to be honest with you, because I think it's important that if we 
have these commissions and we have those enforcement agencies, give 
them what they need.

Right now, as far as I'm concerned, the Federal Trade Commission is 
like a police officer in a high-crime area without a weapon. And I can 
tell you, there will be no real enforcement there if they don't have 
the tools that they need to be able to enforce the law when it comes 
down to it.

Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Act of 2008, H.R. 5351, very 
important piece of legislation. The bill has ended unnecessary 
subsidies to oil companies in which we're investing in clean and 
renewable energy. And I think it's important that Americans understand, 
and also, Mr. Ryan, that every Member of Congress understand, that none 
of the legislation that I've mentioned thus far would have seen the 
light of day if it wasn't for the 110th Congress and it wasn't for 
Democrats allowing it to come to the floor.