# JAMAL RASHARD ADDISON POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `fc877c255adfa99b8669327f7e3660f3`
`Mr. BUTTERFIELD â€” 12 February 2008`

---


Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues in 
the consideration of H.R. 4203, as amended, which names a postal 
facility in Lithonia, Georgia, after Army Specialist Jamaal Addison, 
the first soldier from Georgia to lose his life while serving in Iraq.

H.R. 4203, which has the support of the entire congressional 
delegation from the State of Georgia, was introduced by my friend, 
Representative Henry ''Hank'' Johnson, Jr., of the State of Georgia on 
November 15, 2007, and was considered by and reported from the 
Oversight Committee by voice vote on January 29, 2008.

Mr. Speaker, the measure before us pays tribute to the life and 
service of Army Specialist Jamaal RaShard Addison by renaming the post 
office in his hometown of Lithonia, Georgia, after him.

A brave member of the 507th Ordnance Maintenance Company in Fort 
Bliss, Texas, Army Specialist Jamaal Addison died, unfortunately, on 
March 23, 2003, as a result of an enemy ambush near Nasiriyah, Iraq. 
Army Specialist Jamaal Addison was born on October 7, 1980, in the very 
town of Lithonia and spent his entire childhood there until enlisting 
in the United States Army in March of 2000.

As we pay tribute to this heroic American citizen, let's also take a 
moment and recollect on the thousands of men and women in uniform 
currently serving abroad in order to protect us here at home.

Mr. Speaker, I ask that we all proudly commemorate both the life and 
unfortunate death of Army Specialist Jamaal Addison by passing H.R. 
4203. I want to commend the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Johnson) for 
bringing forth this legislation and getting the entire delegation to 
support it.

At this time, I reserve the balance of my time.