# None
## `fcf99999fa67f06056ce132e7786234f`
`Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia â€” 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, let me start by saying, Look, 
I think the State Department when this draft was leaked made a mistake 
in trying to reclassify this and put the genie back in the bottle. They 
should have just said this is unofficial, this has some problems, and 
gone ahead. I think that would have made it a lot easier for everybody.

Secondly, let's get real. For the State Department to make official 
pronunciations about another government and particular ministries can 
have its diplomatic challenges, and I respect the right of the 
administration in some of these instances to refrain from saying what 
the majority would like them to say.

Having said that, I think the State Department, when they go tell The 
Washington Post things that they wouldn't tell this committee, gives me 
some problems and puts me on the side of voting for this resolution 
rather than defending the State Department.

I want to thank the chairman for his oversight hearings on corruption 
in Iraq. I think it is entirely appropriate. I think he is certainly 
within his bounds in the right to get the information from the 
Department of State, and I hope in the future they will be more 
cooperative in terms of turning over information to the committee 
instead of just turning it over to the newspapers with their own slant. 
That is not the way this works. We have a separation of powers. We are 
a separate branch of government, the legislative branch, and we want to 
be part of these discussions.

Now, this resolution could have been about a strong bipartisan 
consensus calling attention to the corruption in Iraq and urging the 
State Department to step up its efforts to ferret out official 
corruption, but it is not.

The resolution is just the latest, as I said before, it is the latest 
find in a search for proxy anti-war votes that the leadership on the 
other side has staged to feed an increasingly restive left wing of 
their party.

Unable to prevail directly, they ignore regular order; they nibble 
around the edges with symbolic surrogates and sense of Congress 
resolutions.

Having said that, I am going to vote for this resolution. It is not 
the resolution I would have put forward. We would like to have had more 
input. I hope as we move down the road on a number of war issues, we 
can work across the aisle to try to bring some consensus and real 
change regarding what is going on in Iraq, instead of putting up a 
document such as this, drafted by one party. But I urge support for the 
resolution. I thank the chairman for his oversight hearings.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.