# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `fd25cc84d65d342d632f122838ea71c1`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN â€” 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the Senate 
amendment to the omnibus appropriations bill for an unconditional $70 
billion for the war in Iraq. This amendment gives the President a blank 
check to continue a flawed strategy that has no end in sight. It does 
nothing to bring home our brave men and women of the armed forces 
serving faithfully in Iraq, many of them on their third tour of duty in 
that country, at considerable sacrifice and strain to them and their 
families. Nor does this amendment place any conditions on the Iraqi 
government, which has continually failed to pursue political 
reconciliation. Our intelligence community has publicly concluded that 
the political situation Iraq is getting worse, not better. Moreover, 
the indefinite presence of American forces has sadly contributed to 
Iraq's political stagnation because it has allowed the different 
factions there to postpone making the difficult compromises necessary 
to achieve stability and reconciliation. Meanwhile, our men and women 
of the armed services continue to die every day in Iraq's ongoing civil 
war. A strategy of more of the same is no strategy at all.

I have and will continue to vote to ensure that our troops in Iraq 
receive the support and equipment that they need. That is why in 
November I voted in support of the House measure to provide our troops 
in Iraq with an additional $50 billion. At the same time, this House 
legislation required the safe and responsible redeployment of our 
troops in Iraq. That legislation aimed to transition the U.S. military 
mission in Iraq. It would redeploy our combat forces out of Iraq by a 
target date of December 15, 2008. The House proposal, modeled after the 
approach recommended by the bipartisan Baker-Hamilton Commission of the 
Iraq Study Group, would focus the remaining forces on the more limited 
missions of training Iraqi security forces, providing logistical and 
intelligence support for Iraqi security forces, and engaging in 
targeted counter-terrorist operations against Al-Qaeda and affiliated 
groups. The House bill also called for a ''comprehensive diplomatic, 
political, and economic strategy that includes sustained engagement 
with Iraq's neighbors and the international community for the purpose 
of working collectively to bring stability to Iraq.''

Instead of supporting the sensible approach passed by the House, the 
Senate Republicans, taking their cue from the White House, threatened 
to filibuster it. Now these same political elements have collaborated 
in sending us an amendment for more war funding with no accountability 
and no plan to redeploy our combat forces. This irresponsible approach 
will have the effect of prolonging the war, not bringing it to an end.

While I am opposed to another blank check for war funding in Iraq, I 
support continued military operations and reconstruction activities in 
Afghanistan. Moreover, my opposition to the Senate amendment does not 
extend to the underlying Omnibus, which--while far from perfect--was at 
the end of the day the best that we could do this year.