# None
## `fd3ceeb81d9a85c7ff1ce403f3119c1e`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas â€” 6 May 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
H.R. 1320, ''Expressing support for the vigilance and prompt response 
of the citizens and law enforcement agencies in New York and 
Connecticut to the attempted terrorist attack in Times Square on May 1, 
2010. Their exceptional professionalism and investigative work 
following the attempted attack, and their consistent commitment to 
preparedness for and collective response to terrorism.''

Mr. Speaker, democrats are focused on keeping Americans safe. This 
was an excellent example of Federal, State, and local law enforcement 
and counter-terrorism authorities working together in a coordinated 
way, and also a good reminder that citizen awareness and responsible 
action by every day Americans is also a key component in defeating 
those who seek to harm us. This timely awareness and cooperation 
resulted in a quick and appropriate response Saturday night, and 
combined with a sophisticated and aggressive investigation, led to a 
swift arrest shortly thereafter.

It is prevalent that we live in a dangerous world with ever-evolving 
threats. The Obama Administration and our State and local law 
enforcement authorities understand the nature of the threats and are 
working tirelessly to defeat them. In Congress, we provided state-of-
the-art resources, tools, and authority to wage this fight against 
terrorism and we will continue to do so in the future. Some may want to 
politicize this very serious attempted attack and dispute whether the 
suspect should be read his Miranda rights, taken to federal court or 
given other rights afforded to U.S. citizens.

Because the suspect is an American citizen, even Glenn Beck agrees 
that the Constitution must be upheld with respect to a citizen's rights 
in this case.





 Democratic Record [and Contrast with Republican Approach]


We have tripled the number of our troops fighting on the central 
front in the war against al Qaeda and their extremist allies in 
Afghanistan--after years of taking our eye off the ball and under-
resourcing this fight. We have successfully stepped up our partnership 
with Pakistan, which has gone on the offensive for many months in the 
rugged border region with Afghanistan--after years in which al Qaeda 
was able to establish a safe-haven.

We have worked with our partners to target al Qaeda's leadership, and 
to take out key terrorist leaders--increasing the pressure to a


new level. We are responsibly removing our troops from Iraq and ending 
that war--after seven years of a war that carried enormous costs in 
lives and resources. We have restored America's leadership and standing 
in the world, strengthening our alliances and building new 
partnerships--after years of frayed alliances and growing opposition to 
our leadership. We have rallied the world around the ambitious goal of 
securing all vulnerable nuclear material around the world in 4 years, 
including specific steps and a clear plan for achieving that goal--
after years of insufficient action against the gravest threat we face.

We have reset our relations with Russia, including the most 
comprehensive nuclear arms treaty in 20 years--after relations with 
Russia fell to a post-Cold War low. We have increased Iran's isolation 
through our diplomatic efforts, tightening enforcement on U.S. 
sanctions, seeking broader sanctions through the U.N., and building a 
broader coalition of countries to stand up to Iran's pursuit of nuclear 
weapons--after years in which Iran went from zero centrifuges to 7000, 
and strengthened its position in the region.

We are pursuing a comprehensive peace in the Middle East, which would 
enhance Israel's security--after years in which America was too often 
absent from the peace process.

We have led an unprecedented international response to the global 
economic crisis through the G-20, averting catastrophe and putting our 
economy on the pathway to recovery--after the gravest economic crisis 
that we've faced since the Great Depression.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1320.
