# None
## `fd66e646c32c56b170dbc9664fb2c226`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa â€” 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. I want to thank the gentleman from New Jersey for 
yielding.

Mr. Chairman, the amendment that I have offered is an amendment that 
makes great sense, especially given the


enormous costs that American taxpayers have paid for Operation Enduring 
Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom.

One of the things we know is that there is a price for war. Sixty-
five years ago, my father was in route from Guam to Iwo Jima as an 18-
year-old marine. At that time, the world had been at war for a little 
over 5 years. Well, here in the United States, we have been at war, 
basically, since September 11 of 2001.

My amendment offers a simple, commonsense solution that requires the 
administration to submit a report to Congress on the long-term costs of 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

As I mentioned, we have been engaged in a war in Afghanistan for 
almost 9 years now and in Iraq for 7 years, and the Department of 
Defense has yet to submit a long-term estimate of the cost of these 
wars. The previous administration failed to submit a cost estimate 
despite a statutory reporting requirement for a cost estimate for 
fiscal years 2006 through 2011 that was required in the fiscal year 
2005 defense appropriations bill.

According to the Congressional Research Service, through fiscal year 
2009, Congress has appropriated at least $944 billion in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and we have lost over 4,400 American lives in Iraq and 
over 1,060 lives in Afghanistan. Because of this immense cost, the 
American people deserve to have an honest estimate about how much these 
wars are going to cost us over the long term. This is especially 
critical on the issue of future health care costs.

My amendment addresses an important issue. This goes back to an 
Oversight Subcommittee hearing we had after the Walter Reed Building 18 
fiasco in 2007. At that hearing, retired Lieutenant General Chip 
Roadman, a former Air Force surgeon general and a member of the 
Independent Review Group, told me, ''We recognize the cost is immense, 
and it is our moral obligation to address those issues.''

In the Independent Review Group report, the four signature injuries 
of these wars were identified. Posttraumatic stress disorder, traumatic 
brain injury, increased survival of severe burns, and traumatic 
amputations are the four signature wounds. The recovery process for 
these signature wounds ''can take months or years and must accommodate 
recurring delayed manifestations of symptoms, extended rehabilitation 
and all the life complications that emerge over time from such 
trauma.'' We don't have a good understanding today of how much it is 
going to cost to take care of these wounded veterans, and we need to 
acknowledge the true cost.

Already, over 1,300 servicemembers have suffered amputations as a 
result of their service in Iraq and Afghanistan. More than 243,000 have 
been treated for mental health conditions. Over 129,000 have been 
diagnosed with posttraumatic stress disorder. These numbers will only 
continue to grow. We also know, according to the U.S. Life Tables, Mr. 
Chairman, the life expectancy of an 18- to 19-year-old male is 58 
years. That means almost 60 years of treatment and care for many of 
these wounded veterans. That is why we need an honest and accurate 
assessment of the true cost of the war.

My amendment requires the President to estimate the number of 
veterans expected to suffer from these signature wounds and the cost it 
is going to take to treat them and to provide them with the care they 
deserve.

That is why this amendment is a commonsense, transparent requirement. 
It is long overdue, and it is going to give the American taxpayers, who 
are footing the bill for these deserving veterans, a better idea of 
what the long-term cost is actually going to be. That is why I urge 
everyone to support it.