# REPORT ON IRAQ BY GENERAL PETRAEUS
## `fdcc90f44edae98d81ae9c2480ae46e1`
`Mr. WICKER â€” 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. WICKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend for yielding. I thank him 
for the remarks that he has already made.

Actually, it is not usually my practice to come before this House and 
defend the New York Times. But it was actually an advertisement, a 
full-page advertisement taken out in the New York Times by the ultra-
leftist group, moveon.org. I have a copy of it right here.

Mr. Speaker, it is by George Soros and moveon.org. It says: ''General 
Petraeus or general betray us? Cooking the books for the White House.'' 
I was astonished to see even moveon.org attack the messenger as they 
did today and attack the credibility and integrity and, if you please, 
the patriotism of this great servant who has served so many years in 
the military and who was confirmed unanimously in the United States 
Senate. It was and is an insult. It shows the level to which the 
opponents of this surge and those who would legislate defeat in Iraq 
would go.

I was glad to see Ranking Member Duncan Hunter and Ranking Member 
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen take this group to task during the hearing and to 
call on members of the committee at the hearing today to disassociate 
themselves, whether they agree with our policy in Iraq or not, to 
disassociate themselves from this type of smear tactic that we saw 
coming from moveon.org in the New York Times in the form of this full-
page ad.

Frankly, Mr. Speaker, I was disappointed that more Members on both 
sides of the aisle didn't rise and denounce this scurrilous attack on 
the integrity of one of our great public servants.