# THE 30 SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `fe23c1dbc51d60c726bf468b5ec3d907`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut â€” 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. I thank my friend from Pennsylvania, and I 
appreciate his promptness in being here as I share with him today. We 
trust that the other members of the 30-Somethings will join us here 
today, but it falls very often on the new members of the 30-Somethings 
to make sure that we are here to begin the sharing of good news with 
the American people.

And I hope there is good news, Mr. Altmire. I hope that people 
throughout this country who see the President's veto of this incredibly 
important bill, and you laid out very clearly and very succinctly what 
the President has vetoed, what he has said no to. We're talking about 
health care for kids. We're talking about good schools. We're talking 
about Head Start, medical research, home heating assistance for the 
elderly. And these are the basic building blocks of a compassionate 
society, and the President has said, very firmly and clearly, no to 
those.

And as you said, we're not very far away from having the requisite 
number of votes here on the House floor to override that veto. And I 
know that's kind of inside baseball for a lot of people, whether we 
have two-thirds or three-fourths or whatever the percentage is that we 
need. But it's important because, as you said, the President has found 
his veto pen for the first time in his tenure in office. And I think 
it's important to try to figure out what's different this year than as 
was the case in the last previous 6 years of his Presidency? And it's 
kind of funny because, if you look at the record, as you said, Mr. 
Altmire, it seems a little odd to be having lectures from this 
administration on fiscal responsibility because this President and the 
Republican Congress over the last 6 years have increased Federal 
spending by 50 percent, 50 percent just over 6 years. We've put $3 
trillion on top of the deficit, on top of the debt that this country 
owes, as we've watched the President and this Congress continue to 
spend and continue to borrow. We've seen the amount of foreign-held 
debt, and you know, this is something that Mr. Meek and Mr. Ryan have 
been talking about for years and years and years. We've seen the amount 
of foreign-held debt during that time double. This is all under a 
Republican-controlled Congress, both Houses, and a Republican 
administration. And during that entire time, the biggest piece of the 
budget that has exploded has been the funding for this war.

Now, those of us who paid attention when the President initially 
rolled out his plans to invade Iraq, his very rosy and optimistic 
projections of our success there and the cost of that war, well, 
remember that he told the American people, his administration told the 
Congress that he thought that this war wasn't going to cost more than 
$50 or $60 billion to get the job done? And also, if you remember, that 
the Iraqis were going to welcome the Americans as conquering heroes. 
Well, we know that that $50 to $60 billion was a figure of fiction, 
historical fiction now, Mr. Altmire, because now the estimates are that 
this war has cost us not $50 billion, not $100 billion, not $500 
billion, but $1.3 trillion. And if we look forward to the projections 
associated with carrying out a war for the next 10 years, as this 
President has told this country he's planning to do, or that his war 
planners intend to do, we're talking about a $3.5 trillion commitment 
before this is all done. Now, that is a number that is almost 
impossible to get our hands around. I mean, what does $3.5 trillion 
mean to anybody? Well, what it means is that we're going to borrow more 
and more and more. We are going to put our children and our 
grandchildren and our great-grandchildren into hock in this country.

And so, when we hear this President sitting down and telling the 
American people that he's going to get tough on spending, and the way 
he's going to do that is by denying education to kids and health care 
to the sick and heat to the elderly, well, during that time he and his 
Republican Congress have spent like drunken sailors when it comes to a 
very mismanaged and misguided war in Iraq, you can't help but wonder 
where his priorities are and where this Congress' priorities were for 
the last several years.

So, it's all got to be, I think, in relation, Mr. Altmire, because 
we're making choices here, as we have for the last 6 years. We've 
chosen not to spend on American hospitals and American children. We've 
chosen not to spend to help our elderly get what they need in order to 
keep their house heated for the winter. And instead, we've chosen to 
build Iraqi buildings and Iraqi hospitals. We've chosen to put more and 
more troops in harm's way in a war that is making this country less 
safe in the long run rather than more safe. This is all about choices, 
and it's time that we started making some different ones.

And that's why we got sent here, Mr. Altmire. We got sent here to 
start investing in this country, to start making sure that our 
priorities look to this country, to the United States of America, 
first. And that's what the Labor-HHS appropriations bill does. It is 
the foundation of that compassionate government that we all believe in. 
It's about medical research. It's about schools. It's about hospitals.

And I hope, as you said, that there will be enough Republicans here 
who will join us, and we only need a handful, so that we can reverse 
that and bring back some common sense to our spending priorities in 
this country, Mr. Altmire.