# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `fe24417fc49a2150c9a264ec0e1a883a`
`Mr. WICKER â€” 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. WICKER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of this 
legislation to fund our troops.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this legislation. I want to thank 
Chairman Murtha and Ranking Member Bill Young for their leadership and 
for working with the members on both sides of the aisle in crafting 
this important bill.

This measure provides the funds to enable our military to meet the 
challenges it faces in the global war on terror and to protect our 
homeland. It contains resources to address the needs of our military 
families and includes initiatives to produce the advanced weaponry, 
equipment, and training to ensure that our military remains the best in 
the world.

I am particularly pleased that the Committee did not include 
restrictions on funds that would prevent the President and our military 
commanders in the field from implementing the surge strategy in Iraq.

In the debate on funding for the troops and the surge earlier this 
year, some of my Democratic colleagues and many in the news media 
proclaimed this operation to be a failure even before it began. Many 
said the war was lost. Despite signs that the new strategy was taking 
hold, the Democratic majority sought to undermine this effort with 
attempts to cut off funding and set a date-certain for withdrawal. 
President Bush and Republicans in this Congress countered that we 
should support the troops fully and give the surge time to work.

There is solid evidence now that this strategy so ably put into place 
by GEN David Petraeus is working. Two military commanders on the ground 
there reported this week that they are denying freedom of movement to 
Al-Qaeda and that the citizenry have a new level of confidence in the 
Coalition and Iraqi Security Forces. More Iraqis are turning against Al 
Qaeda and working with Coalition forces to make their communities 
safer.

Further proof about progress in Iraq was provided in a July 30 op-ed 
in the New York Times. The column, entitled ''A War We Just Might 
Win,'' was written by Michael O'Hanlon and Kenneth Pollack, two fellows 
at the Brookings Institution who have been harsh critics of the war 
effort. They spent eight days in Iraq and spoke of the significant 
changes taking place there.

They wrote that troop morale is now high, that Coalition forces are 
confident in the strategy, and that they have the personnel on the


ground to ''make a real difference.'' Army and Marine units are working 
well with Iraqi security units and the political and economic 
arrangements being forged at the local level are helping provide basic 
services to the Iraqi people.


They visited Anbar province and its capital of Ramadi, which has gone 
from being described as the worst part of Iraq to the best in just six 
months. To quote, ''A few months ago, American Marines were fighting 
for every yard of Ramadi; last week we strolled down its streets 
without body armor.''

Mr. Chairman, in a previous House debate on this issue, I noted that 
the American people are war-weary and impatient with the progress of 
our efforts there. I also said I believe the American people want us to 
win. I understand the frustration they feel about this engagement, but 
I still believe they want us to succeed in bringing about a free and 
stable government in Iraq and in defeating Al Qaeda. The reports I 
referenced earlier offer encouragement that our strategy may yet 
produce those results.

Our success there would stymie the plans outlined by Osama Bin Laden 
and his Al Qaeda Jihadists who consider Iraq a central battleground in 
the war on terror. They seek to establish a radical Islamic caliphate 
in the Middle East and use it as a beach-head to spread their terror 
and intolerance throughout the region and around the world.

We have taken the fight to terrorists in Iraq and Afghanistan to deny 
them the staging ground to plot more September 11-style attacks in the 
U.S. We have also been vigilant about protecting our homeland since 9-
11, and we must continue to provide the support our military and our 
intelligence communities need to meet that challenge. That includes 
modernizing the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to enable our 
intelligence agencies to remove outdated restrictions on the collection 
of information needed to stop terrorist plots before they can be 
carried out.

The funding in this bill and revising the FISA provisions will send a 
message about our commitment to providing the resources to protect our 
homeland, enable our military to defend American interests, and fight 
terrorism in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world.