# None
## `fe8aa721769a4ecdfc42cd7f1bd3df3b`
`Mr. AKAKA â€” 11 September 2008`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about the growing 
rate of suicide among Iraq and Afghanistan-era veterans. For all that 
is being done in this country to support our troops in battle, we must 
remember this truth: For many veterans, their battles do not end when 
they return from the war. Instead, war returns home with them and 
within them. That is a truth. Instead, they face an enemy that is hard 
to understand and harder to defeat. Their wounds and their enemy are 
unseen, but the reality and sometimes the deadly consequences of these 
invisible wounds cannot be ignored.

I am deeply troubled by the latest information we have received from 
VA. The number of veterans lost to the enemy of suicide is rising. 
Suicide among Iraq and Afghanistan-era veterans is at an alltime high. 
The most recently recorded year--2006--saw 113 Iraq and Afghanistan-era 
veterans lost to suicide, almost as many as we lost in the years 2002 
to 2005 combined. This is disturbing.

Iraq and Afghanistan veterans are not the only ones suffering from 
service-related mental health injuries. Indeed, the number of veterans 
found to have service-connected PTSD is not just rising, it is rising 
several times faster than service-connected disabilities overall. Nor 
are suicide and mental health only a matter of concern among discharged 
veterans. Recent news reports show that suicides among Active-Duty 
soldiers are positioned to reach an alltime high, exceeding last year's 
record number.

Much is being done to protect and heal veterans with mental health 
issues. VA has expanded mental health outreach. The Vet Centers, run 
largely for vets and by vets, offer a safe haven and readjustment 
counseling. For those in desperate need, VA now operates a 24-hour 
suicide hotline. In the 1 year it has been operating, they have 
received tens of thousands of calls and performed over a thousand 
rescues of veterans about to take their own lives.

Unfortunately, these efforts are not enough. Veterans are committing 
suicide at a higher rate than their civilian counterparts. A recent 
RAND study found that nearly three out of four veterans in need of 
mental health care receive inadequate care or no care at all. This 
cannot be acceptable to a nation intent on protecting those who wear 
its uniform. More must be done in the days ahead, and not just by VA.

This Congress took an important step by passing the Joshua Omvig 
Suicide Prevention Act. But in the final weeks of this session, 
comprehensive veterans mental health legislation is still waiting for a 
vote in the House. Through S. 2162, the Veterans' Mental Health Care 
Improvement Act, which passed the Senate with unanimous support, 
Congress can do more to prevent veteran suicide. Congress can 
strengthen veterans' mental health care, outreach, support the 
homeless, services for families, and leverage community resources. I 
hope this critical legislation will become law before this Congress 
ends.

PTSD and other service-related invisible wounds are real injuries. 
They are also an enemy to veterans, to the families who support them, 
and to all Americans. It is not enough to bring our troops home; we 
must support them when the battle follows them home. It is unacceptable 
that veterans who come home safely later lose their lives to the enemy 
of suicide. We must do more to support those who have served us.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.