# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `fea8da138c8f134749b2c62c289300f9`
`Mrs. BOXER â€” 25 July 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, today I rise to pay tribute to 55 young 
Americans who have been killed in Iraq since April 28, 2007. This 
brings to 777 the number of soldiers who were either from California or 
based in California who have been killed while serving our country in 
Iraq. This represents 21 percent of all U.S. deaths in Iraq.

PFC Jay-D H. Ornsby-Adkins, 21, died on April 28 in Salman Pak, Iraq, 
of injuries sustained when an improvised explosive device detonated 
near his military vehicle and then encountered small arms fire. Private 
First Class Ornsby-Adkins was assigned to D Company, 1st Battalion, 
15th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division, Fort Benning, GA. He was 
from Ione, CA.

First LT Travis L. Manion, 26, died on April 29 while conducting 
combat operations in Al Anbar Province, Iraq. First Lieutenant Manion 
was assigned to 1st Reconnaissance Battalion, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

SPC Astor A. Sunsin-Pineda, 20, died on May 2 in Baghdad, Iraq, when 
an improvised explosive device detonated near his military vehicle. 
Specialist Sunsin-Pineda was assigned to A Company, 4th Brigade Special 
Troops Battalion, 1st Infantry Division, Fort Riley, KS. He was from 
Long Beach, CA.

SGT Felix G. Gonzalez-Iraheta, 25, died May 3 in Baghdad, Iraq, of 
wounds suffered when his unit came in contact with enemy forces using 
small arms fire. Sergeant Gonzalez-Iraheta was assigned to the 1st 
Battalion, 18th Infantry Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 1st 
Infantry Division, Schweinfurt, Germany. He was from Sun Valley, CA.

Cpl Charles O. Palmer II, 36, died May 5 while conducting combat 
operations in Al Anbar Province, Iraq. Corporal Palmer was assigned to 
8th Communication Battalion, II Marine Expeditionary Force Headquarters 
Group, II MEF, Camp Lejeune, NC. He was from Manteca, CA.

PFC William A. Farrar Jr., 20, died May 11 in Al Iskandariyah, Iraq, 
of wounds suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near 
his vehicle. Private First Class Farrar was assigned to the 127th 
Military Police Company, 709th Military Police Battalion, 18th Military 
Police Brigade, Darmstadt, Germany. He was from Redlands, CA.

SPC Rhys W. Klasno, 20, died May 13 in Haditha, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle. Specialist Klasno was assigned to the 1114th Transportation 
Company, Bakersfield, CA. He was from Riverside, CA.

SGT Steven M. Packer, 23, died May 17 in Rushdi Mullah, Iraq, of 
wounds suffered when his dismounted patrol encountered an improvised 
explosive device. Sergeant Packer was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 
14th Infantry Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain 
Division, Fort Drum, NY. He was from Clovis, CA.

PFC Victor M. Fontanilla, 23, died May 17 in Iskandariya, Iraq, of 
wounds suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle. Private First Class Fontanilla was assigned to the 725th 
Brigade Support Battalion, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry 
Division, Fort Richardson, AK. He was from Stockton, CA.

SSG Christopher Moore, 28, died May 19 in Baghdad, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle. Staff Sergeant Moore was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 5th 
Cavalry Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division, Fort 
Hood, TX. He was from Alpaugh, CA.

PFC Joseph J. Anzack, Jr., 20, died in Al Taqa, Iraq. Private First 
Class Anzack was initially reported as Duty Status Whereabouts Unknown 
on May 12, 2007, when his patrol received small arms fire and 
explosives. Private First Class Anzack was assigned to D Company, 4th 
Battalion, 31st Infantry Regiment, 10th Mountain Division, Fort Drum, 
NY. He was from Torrance, CA.

PFC Daniel P. Cagle, 22, died in Balad, Iraq, died May 23 of wounds 
suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near his unit in 
Ramadi, Iraq. Private First Class Cagle was assigned to the 3rd 
Battalion, 69th Armor Regiment, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry 
Division, Fort Stewart, GA. He was from Carson, CA.

CPL Victor H. Toledo Pulido, 22, died May 23 in Al Nahrawan, Iraq, of 
wounds suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle. Corporal Toledo Pulido was assigned to 3d Squadron, 1st 
Cavalry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division, 
Mechanized, Fort Benning, GA. He was from Hanford, CA.

SPC Gregory N. Millard, 22, died on May 26 in Salah Ad Din Province, 
Iraq, of injuries sustained when an improvised explosive device 
detonated near his military vehicle. Specialist Millard was assigned to 
A Company, 2nd Battalion, 505th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 82nd 
Airborne Division, Fort Bragg, NC. He was from San Diego, CA.

SGT Clayton G. Dunn II, 22, died on May 26 in Salah Ad Din Province, 
Iraq, of injuries sustained when an improvised explosive device 
detonated near his military vehicle. Sergeant Dunn was assigned to A 
Company, 2nd Battalion, 505th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 82nd 
Airborne Division, Fort Bragg, NC. He was from Moreno Valley, CA.



SPC Mark R. C. Caguioa, 21, died on May 24 at the National Naval 
Medical Center, Bethesda, MD, died of injuries sustained on May 4, 
2007, in Baghdad, Iraq, when an improvised explosive device detonated 
near his military vehicle. Specialist Caguioa was assigned to B 
Company, 1st Battalion, 5th Cavalry Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division, 
Fort Hood, TX. He was from Stockton, CA.

SGT Nicholas R. Walsh, 27, died May 26 from wounds suffered while 
conducting combat operations in Al Anbar Province, Iraq. Sergeant Walsh 
was assigned to the 1st Reconnaissance Battalion, 1st Marine Division, 
I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

LCpl Emmanuel Villarreal, 21, died May 27 from a nonhostile vehicle 
accident at Kuwait Naval Base, Kuwait. Lance Corporal Villarreal was 
assigned to Battalion Landing Team 1st Battalion, 11th Marine Regiment, 
13th Marine Expeditionary Unit, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp 
Pendleton, CA.

SSG Thomas M. McFall, 36, died May 28 in Baghdad, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
position during a dismounted patrol. Staff Sergeant McFall was assigned 
to the 1st Battalion, 38th Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade, 2nd Infantry 
Division, Stryker Brigade Combat Team, Fort Lewis, WA. He was from 
Glendora, CA.

SPC Alexandre A. Alexeev, 23, died on May 28, in Abu Sayda, Iraq when 
an improvised explosive device detonated near his military vehicle. 
Specialist Alexeev was assigned to A Troop, 6th Squadron, 9th Cavalry 
Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division, Fort Hood, TX. He was from Wilmington, 
CA.

SPC Doonewey White, 26, died on May 29 in Balad, Iraq, of injuries 
sustained on May 28, 2007, in Baghdad, Iraq, when a vehicle-borne 
improvised explosive device detonated near his vehicle. Specialist 
White was assigned to B Troop, 2nd Battalion, 5th Cavalry Regiment, 1st 
Cavalry Division, Fort Hood, TX. He was from Milpitas, CA.

SPC Romel Catalan, 21, of California, died on June 2 in Ameriyah, 
Iraq, when an improvised explosive device detonated near his vehicle. 
Specialist Catalan was assigned to A Company, 1st Battalion, 23rd 
Infantry Regiment, 2nd Infantry Division, Fort Lewis, WA. He was from 
Los Angeles, CA.

SGT Shawn E. Dressler, 22, died on June 2, in Baghdad, Iraq, when an 
improvised explosive device detonated near his vehicle. Sergeant 
Dressler was assigned to A Company, 1st Battalion, 18th Infantry 
Regiment, 1st Infantry Division, Schweinfurt, Germany. He was from 
Santa Maria, CA.

SSG Greg P. Gagarin, 38, died June 3 in Thania, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle. Staff Sergeant Gagarin was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 37th 
Field Artillery Regiment, 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, Stryker 
Brigade Combat Team, Fort Lewis, WA. He was from Los Angeles, CA.

SGT Andrews J. Higgins, 28, died June 5 in Baqubah, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when his unit came in contact with enemy forces using small 
arms fire. Sergeant Higgins was assigned to the 5th Battalion, 20th 
Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, Stryker Brigade 
Combat Team, Fort Lewis, WA. He was from Hayward, CA.

PFC Justin A. Verdeja, 20, died June 5 in Baghdad, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when his unit was attacked by insurgents using small arms 
fire. Private First Class Verdeja was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 
12th Infantry Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 2nd Infantry Division, 
Fort Carson, CO. He was from La Puente, CA.

PFC Cameron K. Payne, 22, died June 11 in Balad, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered from an improvised explosive device that detonated near his 
vehicle during combat operations in Baghdad, Iraq. Private First Class 
Payne was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 16th Infantry Regiment, 4th 
Infantry Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division, Fort Riley, KS. He 
was from Corona, CA.

LCpl Johnny R. Strong, 21, died June 12 while conducting combat 
operations in Al Anbar province, Iraq. Lance Corporal Strong was 
assigned to 2nd Battalion, 7th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, 
Twentynine Palms, CA.

SPC Damon G. LeGrand, 27, died June 12 in Baqubah, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when insurgents attacked his unit with anti-tank mines, 
rocket-propelled grenades and small arms fire in Baghdad, Iraq. 
Specialist LeGrand was assigned to the 571st Military Police Company, 
504th Military Police Battalion, 42nd Military Police Brigade, Fort 
Lewis, WA. He was from Lakeside, CA.

SPC Josiah W. Hollopeter, 27, died June 14 in Balad, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when his unit was attacked by insurgents using small arms fire 
in Al Muqdadiyah, Iraq. Specialist Hollopeter was assigned to the 6th 
Squadron, 9th Cavalry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry 
Division, Fort Hood, TX. He was from San Diego, CA.

SGT Derek T. Roberts, 24, died on June 14, in Kirkuk, Iraq, when an 
improvised explosive device detonated near his vehicle. Sergeant 
Roberts was assigned to B Company, 2nd Battalion, 35th Infantry 
regiment, 25th Infantry Division, Schofield Barracks, HI. He was from 
Gold River, CA.

SSG Stephen J. Wilson, 28, died June 20 while conducting combat 
operations in Al Anbar Province, Iraq. Staff Sergeant Wilson was 
assigned to Combat Logistics Battalion 13, 13th Marine Expeditionary 
Unit, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

SGT Shawn P. Martin, 30, died June 20 while conducting combat 
operations in Al Anbar Province, Iraq. Sergeant Martin was assigned to 
Combat Logistics Battalion 13, 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit, I Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

PFC Raymond N. Spencer Jr., 23, died June 21 in Baghdad, Iraq, of 
wounds suffered when his unit was attacked by insurgents using an 
improvised explosive device and small arms fire. Private First Class 
Spencer was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 12th Cavalry Regiment, 4th 
Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division, Fort Bliss, TX. He was from 
Carmichael, CA.

PVT Shane M. Stinson, 23, died on June 23, in Baghdad, Iraq, of 
injuries sustained when his mounted patrol encountered an improvised 
explosive device and small arms fire. Private Stinson was assigned to 
the 2nd Battalion, 69th Armor Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division, Fort 
Benning, GA. He was from Fullerton, CA.

PFC Cory F. Hiltz, 20, died June 28 of wounds sustained when his unit 
was attacked in Baghdad by insurgents using improvised explosive 
devices. Private First Class Hiltz was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 
12th Infantry Regiment, 2d Brigade Combat Team, 2d Infantry Division, 
Fort Carson, CO. He was from La Verne, CA.

SGT Giann C. Joya Mendoza, 27, died June 28 of wounds sustained when 
his unit was attacked in Baghdad by insurgents using improvised 
explosive devices. Sergeant Joya Mendoza was assigned to the 2nd 
Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment, 2d Brigade Combat Team, 2d Infantry 
Division, Fort Carson, CO. He was from North Hollywood, CA.

SGT Michael J. Martinez, 24, died June 28 of wounds sustained when 
his unit was attacked in Baghdad by insurgents using improvised 
explosive devices. Sergeant Martinez was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 
12th Infantry Regiment, 2d Brigade Combat Team, 2d Infantry Division, 
Fort Carson, CO. He was from Chula Vista, CA.

SGT Shin W. Kim, 23, died June 28 of wounds sustained when his unit 
was attacked in Baghdad by insurgents using improvised explosive 
devices. Sergeant Kim was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 12th Infantry 
Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 2d Infantry Division, Fort Carson, 
CO. He was from Fullerton, CA.

SPC Victor A. Garcia, 22, died July 1 in Baghdad, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered from enemy small arms fire. Specialist Garcia was assigned to 
the 1st Battalion, 38th Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade, 2nd Infantry 
Division, Stryker Brigade Combat Team, Fort Lewis, WA. He was from 
Rialto, CA.

SSG Michael L. Ruoff Jr., 31, died July 1 in Ta'meem, Iraq, of wounds 
sustained from enemy small arms fire. Staff Sergeant Ruoff was assigned 
to the 1st Battalion, 77th Armor Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 1st 
Infantry Division, Schweinfurt, Germany. He was from Yosemite, CA.

LCpl Juan M. Garcia Schill, 20, died July 2 while conducting combat 
operations in Al Anbar Province, Iraq. Lance Corporal Garcia Schill was 
assigned to 2nd Battalion, 7th Marine


Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine 
Palms, CA.

Petty Officer First Class Steven Phillip Daugherty, 28, died July 6 
as a result of enemy action while conducting combat operations in the 
vicinity of Baghdad, Iraq. Petty Officer Daugherty was assigned to an 
East Coast-based SEAL team. He was from Barstow, CA.

MAJ James M. Ahearn, 43, died July 5 when his vehicle struck an 
improvised explosive device in Baghdad, Iraq. Major Ahearn was assigned 
to 96th Civil Affairs Battalion, 95th Civil Affairs Brigade, Fort 
Bragg, NC. He was from Concord, CA.

SPC Roberto J. Causor Jr., 21, died July 7 in Samarra, Iraq, of 
wounds suffered when insurgents attacked his unit with an improvised 
explosive device and small arms fire. Specialist Causor was assigned to 
the 2nd Battalion, 505th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade 
Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division, Fort Bragg, NC. He was from San 
Jose, CA.

PFC Bruce C. Salazar, Jr., 24, died on July 6, in Muhammad Sath, 
Iraq, of injuries sustained when his dismounted patrol encountered an 
improvised explosive device. Private First Class Salazar was assigned 
to B Company, 1st Battalion, 30th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry 
Division, Fort Stewart, GA. He was from Tracy, CA.

LCpl Steven A. Stacy, 23, died July 5 from wounds suffered while 
conducting combat operations in Al Anbar Province, Iraq. Lance Corporal 
Stacy was assigned to 3rd Battalion, 1st Marine Regiment, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

Cpl Jeremy D. Allbaugh, 21, died July 5 from wounds suffered while 
conducting combat operations in Al Anbar Province, Iraq. Corporal 
Allbaugh was assigned to 1st Battalion, 4th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

LCpl Angel R. Ramirez, 28, died February 21 at Marine Air Ground 
Combat Center, Twentynine Palms, CA, after being medically evacuated 
following a non-hostile incident in Al Qaim, Iraq, on December 21, 
2006. He was assigned to 3rd Battalion, 4th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA. His 
passing was made public on July 10.

SPC Eric M. Holke, 31, died on July 15, in Tallil, Iraq, when his 
vehicle overturned. Specialist Holke was assigned to A Company, 1st 
Battalion, 160th Infantry Regiment, 40th Infantry Division, Army 
National Guard, Fullerton, CA. He was from Crestline, CA.

LCpl Shawn V. Starkovich, 20, died July 16 in Al Anbar Province, 
Iraq. Lance Corporal Starkovich was assigned to 3rd Battalion, 1st 
Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, 
Camp Pendleton, CA.

SGT Ronald L. Coffelt, 36, died July 19 in Baghdad, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered from an improvised explosive device. Sergeant Coffelt was 
assigned to the 503rd Military Police Battalion, 16th Military Police 
Brigade, Airborne, XVIII Airborne Corps, Fort Bragg, NC. He was from 
Fair Oaks, CA.

SFC Luis E. Gutierrez-Rosales, 38, died on July 18, in Adhamiyah, 
Iraq, of injuries sustained when his vehicle encountered an improvised 
explosive device and small arms fire. Sergeant First Class Gutierrez-
Rosales was assigned to A Company, 1st Battalion, 26th Infantry 
Regiment, 1st Infantry Division, Schweinfurt, Germany. He was from 
Bakersfield, CA.

Cpl Christopher G. Scherer, 21, died July 21 from wounds suffered 
while conducting combat operations in Al Anbar Province, Iraq. Corporal 
Scherer was assigned to 1st Combat Engineer Battalion, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

SGT Shawn G. Adams, 21, died July 22, in Owaset, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered from an improvised explosive device. Sergeant Adams was 
assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 509th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 4th 
Brigade Combat Team, Airborne, 25th Infantry Division, Fort Richardson, 
AK. He was from Dixon, CA.

I would also like to pay tribute to the four soldiers from California 
who have died while serving our country in Operation Enduring Freedom 
since April 28.

SSG Joshua R. Whitaker, 23, died May 15 in Qalat, Afghanistan, of 
wounds suffered from enemy small arms fire. Staff Sergeant Whitaker was 
assigned to the 1st Battalion, 7th Special Forces Group, Fort Bragg, 
NC. He was from Long Beach, CA.

SGT Charles E. Wyckoff, Jr., 28, died on June 6 in Helmand Province, 
Afghanistan, of injuries sustained when his dismounted patrol received 
small arms fire. Sergeant Wyckoff was assigned to C Company, 1st 
Battalion, 508th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 82nd Airborne Division, 
Fort Bragg, NC. He was from Chula Vista, CA.

SGT Thomas P. McGee, 23, died July 6 of wounds sustained when his 
vehicle struck an improvised explosive device in Wazi Khwa, 
Afghanistan. Sergeant McGee was assigned to the 546th Military Police 
Company, 385th Military Police Battalion, Fort Stewart, GA. He was from 
Hawthorne, CA.

SFC Sean K. Mitchell, 35, died July 7 in Kidal, Mali, of injuries 
sustained from a non-combat related incident. Sergeant Mitchell was 
assigned to the 1st Battalion, 10th Special Forces Group, Stuttgart, 
Germany. He was from Monterey, CA.










Petty Officer First Class Jeffrey Chaney
