# FUTURE INVOLVEMENT IN AFGHANISTAN
## `fede76d0df1c2da5c535bb3cfeb603ac`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Thank you very much, and I want to thank you and my 
other colleagues here for taking the time to come to the floor to talk 
about this issue. We are at war, and there is very little debate about 
this war. I think it is important and it is incumbent upon every Member 
of this House


to encourage the fullest possible debate on our policy in Afghanistan.

We are told that the President any day now or any week is going to 
come up with a new policy. There are rumors that it will include an 
increase in the number of U.S. troops in Afghanistan.

That needs to be debated.

Part of our job is to be a check and balance on the executive branch. 
And it is our constituents who are going to war. It is our constituents 
who are dying over there. It is our constituents who are getting 
wounded over there and coming back to the United States and requiring a 
lifetime of care. And we need to make sure they get the care that they 
deserve. They have earned that.

I am very concerned about our policy in Afghanistan. I'm concerned 
for a whole number of reasons. I'm concerned because I don't think 
there is any definition to our policy. Depending on whom you talk to, 
you get a different answer as to what our goal is. Originally, our goal 
was to get al Qaeda. After September 11, I, and I think virtually every 
Member of this House and every Member of the Senate, voted to use force 
to go after al Qaeda, who were responsible for the terrible atrocities 
of September 11. It was the right vote then, and I think it's the right 
vote now.

But al Qaeda, which used to be in Afghanistan, has now moved to 
Pakistan. We are told by our military experts that there are no al 
Qaeda in Afghanistan, maybe less than 100, some say. Well, do we need 
100,000 American troops to go after less than 100 members of al Qaeda? 
And if that is not our goal, then this is an example of mission creep 
where our mission has suddenly enlarged itself without any kind of 
input from this Congress.

Now some say we need to have more troops there to make sure that al 
Qaeda never comes back to Afghanistan. Well, al Qaeda has not only been 
in Afghanistan, they have been in Sudan, they have been in Somalia, 
they have been in Yemen. They have been in south Florida. Do we want to 
deploy more troops all over there?

I'm concerned because there is not a clearly defined mission. When I 
ran for Congress, I said I would never vote to send anybody to war 
without a clearly defined mission. That's a beginning, a middle, a 
transition period and an end. I have asked over and over of the 
previous administration and this administration, At what point does our 
military contribution to the political solution that you say will 
happen in Afghanistan, at what point does our military contribution to 
that political solution come to an end? And I usually get, ''Good 
question.'' I don't think anybody knows.

I think that that's a problem, and that's something that we need to 
address.

Let me just say I'm also concerned because Afghanistan is not 
accustomed to a centralized government. Well, we have helped give them 
a centralized government. And the government of Mr. Karzai is corrupt 
and incompetent. By conservative estimates, we are told that in the 
last election, 30 percent of his vote was fraudulent. Thirty percent of 
his vote was fraudulent. And then there was going to be a run-off 
election, and then the opposition candidate, I think understandably, 
said, I don't see how you can put together a credible election in a 
couple of weeks.



And he backed out. So here is our President by default--here's the 
President by default, who is about to be sworn in again, and the 
examples of corruption and fraud in his government, the examples of the 
Afghan government using American taxpayer money for things that they're 
not intended to be used for--basically stealing from the American 
taxpayer. The examples of that are too numerous to mention in this 
debate.