# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `ff4a80bc91c169f5760660bf8f86632e`
`Mr. BOEHNER â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Mr. Speaker, 94 days ago, the President of the United 
States sent to the Congress an emergency supplemental spending request 
to fund our activities in Afghanistan and Iraq. He asked for, in round 
numbers, $100 billion, which has now turned into some $20 to $23 
billion more than that. But we have been through that fight. The 
President vetoed the bill, made it clear what he would sign and what he 
would not sign.

I was at the White House last week after the bill had been vetoed by 
the President, and there was an agreement in the room, bipartisan, 
bicameral agreement in the room that we would sit down together and try 
to resolve the differences that we have over funding our effort to take 
on al Qaeda and other terrorists in Iraq and in Afghanistan.

What we have seen over the last 10 days or so have been token 
meetings. There has been no honest attempt to work together, as we all 
committed to. There have been no meetings where we can actually sit 
down and discuss our differences and try to bring some resolution to 
those differences.

So when I heard earlier this week about this plan that was going to 
be brought to the floor today, I thought to myself, why? Why do we have 
to play more political games? The President of the United States has 
made it clear that he will veto this bill. The Senate leaders, Democrat 
and Republican, have made it clear that this plan has no chance in the 
other Chamber, but yet here we are playing political games while our 
troops are fighting for our freedom and our safety in Iraq.

Now, I am not going to go through all the reasons why Iraq is 
important; I have been through them before. I think every Member of 
this Chamber understands that Iraq is important to the safety and 
security of the United States. But I want to remind all of my 
colleagues that all of our Members in this Chamber, except one, all of 
our Members in this Chamber, Democrat and Republican, except one, voted 
to send our troops to Iraq. There they


have been locked in a battle for the safety and security of Americans, 
helping to try to build democracy to bring more stability to the Middle 
East. And here we are tonight divided, once again, about whether we 
should support our troops that are out there fighting for our safety.

Mr. Speaker and my colleagues, our soldiers are doing their duty in 
Iraq and Afghanistan and around the world, a duty that we have sent 
them on. And yet we sit here playing political games. That is not what 
the American people sent us here to do. Now they asked us to come here, 
Democrats and Republicans, to work through our differences and to make 
sure that we are helping our troops. And I think every Member here 
understands that we have to support our troops. And I think every 
Member here knows that, at the end of the day, we are going to pass a 
clean supplemental that doesn't have all this excess spending riding on 
the backs of our soldiers, that will in fact fund the activities in 
Iraq. The question I ask tonight is, how long are the games going to go 
on?

Ninety-four days we have been at this; 94 days since the President 
asked for this money and we are still playing games. That is not what 
the American people expect of us. They understand that Iraq is 
important. They understand that their safety and security is dependent 
upon what happens there because the consequences of failure in Iraq, 
which this bill will bring about, are too ominous to think about.

This bill is designed to bring failure to Iraq. Failure in Iraq means 
chaos in Iraq. It means genocide in Iraq, and it means we are 
jeopardizing the safety and security of the American people. It is not 
what the American people want. We should reject this bill.