# None
## `ffc4abc75e948d69fe3c02f576517b22`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 22 June 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the legacy left 
behind by a brave young Kentuckian. In Berea, KY, people remember 
Theodore M. ''Coty'' West as a devoted husband, a caring older brother, 
a loving son, and a steadfast friend.

His fellow soldiers remember him as a sturdy soldier who cared about 
his buddies. His legacy remains in the form of a charity he founded 
that sends care packages to soldiers serving in Iraq. This work is now 
carried on by his family, in his memory.

PFC Theodore M. West--''Coty'' was his nickname--enlisted in the U.S. 
Army in August 2005, and was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 5th Cavalry 
Regiment, 1st Brigade, 1st Cavalry Division, at Fort Hood, TX.

He was deployed in Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom in 
November 2006. Just a few weeks later, on November 29, 2006, an 
improvised explosive device detonated near his vehicle during combat 
operations in Baghdad, tragically ending Coty's life. He was 23 years 
old.

For his valorous service, Private First Class West received the 
Bronze Star and the Purple Heart, along with numerous other medals and 
awards.

Private First Class West understood the values that set America apart 
have been paid for by freedom's defenders, and he wanted to join their 
ranks. In a letter to his church that arrived on the day he died, Coty 
urged his friends at home to ''sleep well tonight . . . because tonight 
we stand guard on the wall, and no one will get through to hurt you.''

That kind of courage to stand up to any enemy, that strength of 
spirit, made Coty West one of America's finest sons.

Coty grew up amidst the rolling hills of Berea, KY, surrounded by a 
loving family, a circle of friends, and a devoted young wife. All of 
these members of Coty's community hold special memories of him, from 
when he was a little boy to the day he left for Fort Hood.

It was in Berea, when Coty was only 4 years old, that he told his 
parents he and his brother Ben would go out and dig for treasure. His 
parents told their young treasure hunters to be safe and stay within 
sight. Imagine their surprise when Coty and Ben returned home with a 
collection of 14 antique silver dollars and some antique jewelry they 
had dug up in the yard.

Coty's family was important to him. They remember him gallantly 
saddling up and taking out his horse at the age of 8, in a saddle as 
big as he was, desperately trying to be brave, when he must have been 
scared to death.

And the time he and his younger sister Sheri enrolled in a hunting 
safety course so they could get their hunting licenses. The younger 
Sheri bested Coty by 10 points on the test, a fact he was never allowed 
to live down.

Coty and his family especially enjoyed taking road trips. They would 
travel to NASCAR races, State parks, and Civil War battlefields. It was 
something the family cherished, especially as the kids grew up. It gave 
them a way of all getting back together again.

On July 5, 2006, Coty married Jennifer Gregory in a military ceremony 
near her home in Greenville, KY. His father later wrote that ''the 
ceremony really fit Coty, as it was beautiful, it was country, and it 
was military.'' Jennifer remembers her husband as ''an angel . . . and 
perfect.'' I am certain Coty felt the same about her.

After graduating from Estill County High School, Coty worked in his 
family's energy and construction business as an operator and foreman. 
He was certain, though, that his career lay in the military. His father 
describes Coty as neither a hawk nor a dove, but a soldier. He viewed 
his job as protecting those he loved and waging war on those who would 
harm them.

Early on in his military career, Coty became aware of the financial 
burden combat could have on his fellow soldiers. He also felt for those 
with little or no family, who lacked the messages from home that so 
often sustain a young soldier.

So Coty began a charity to help his fellow soldiers going to Iraq. 
His efforts evolved into ''Coty and Friends,'' a circle of military 
families and supporters who would send soldiers needed supplies before 
their deployment.

But Coty never lived to see his plans come to fruition. He was killed 
before the first box of Coty and Friends supplies arrived in Iraq. The 
group's efforts still continue, in his memory.

The night Coty was deployed to Iraq, the last thing he told his 
family was: ''I love you all, I know you love me, I am good at my job, 
and I will see you soon.''

Coty leaves behind a beloved family. He is missed and cherished by 
his wife, Jennifer Gregory West, his mother, Rene Brandenburg, his 
father, Bill West, his stepmother, Mary Ann West, his sister, Sheri 
Miller, his brothers Dee, Matt, and Ben West, his grandparents Rufus 
West and Jessie Mae Brandenburg, and many others.


Coty West understood the price of freedom. He wanted his family to be 
safe here at home, and he saw that they would be, as he and his fellow 
soldiers stood guard on the wall. He gave of himself so others could 
enjoy what he fought to protect.

The Coty and Friends charity still brings his family together, and it 
still sustains our brave sons and daughters in Iraq who stand guard on 
the wall, so that others may live in peace and security.

This country will never forget PFC Theodore West's sacrifice. Neither 
will the soldier in Iraq who opens a Coty and Friends care package 
tonight. I ask the Senate to send their thoughts and prayers to the 
West family, who continue to give to their country, even after they 
have already given so much.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.