---
---

# STUDENT AID AND FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY ACT OF 2009
## `0001898d7484d94c47f8b899d6aa46e4`
`Mr. ANDREWS — 17 September 2009`

---


Mr. ANDREWS. I thank the author of the amendment for yielding.

The committee strongly supports his amendment and commends him for 
his excellent work.

No student should pay twice for the same course. If someone takes an 
English course and excels in it and learns a certain set of skills, he 
or she should then not have to pay again and consume his or her time 
again a second time around at a different institution. This is even 
more true for the men and women who volunteer to serve this country in 
the Armed Forces. I think it's very important that the House 
understands the benefits of Mr. Minnick's very wise amendment.

If a young American today who's serving in Afghanistan is able to 
access college credits whether online or in person and then he or she 
returns to his or her hometown and wants to transfer those credits so 
he or she can then build on their education, what Mr. Minnick says is 
that's one of the standards that we're going to hold these institutions 
to to see how well they cooperate with that veteran who has returned 
home. What it really does is make sure that the veteran has extra 
leverage, that if the course meets reasonable academic requirements and 
if the student really learns what he or she should, they're going to 
get the credit; so the veteran is not going to pay twice, nor is he or 
she going to have to spend as much time on their course. This is a very 
important to a lot of our returning veterans.

The committee enthusiastically embraces and supports this amendment 
by Mr. Minnick.