---
---

# REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE
## `000a07aff74c506c5ad9960567dd9585`
`Mr. CARTER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. For 108 days.

I got a phone call last night from Fort Hood, actually from a 
newspaper in Fort Hood, asking about the fact they a bad rain out on 
Nolan Creek, and some people got stranded out there. And, of course, 
when you are next to the largest military facility on Earth, the 
helicopters went out and started pulling people off of the roofs.

And this reporter called and was worried that she had heard that 
maybe the resources were not as available as they had been before or 
wouldn't be as available because there were cuts going on on the post. 
We had already checked that out with Fort Hood, and that actually was 
not true of this event.

But I told her, you know, you are from a military community, so we 
who have a military community know what happens when the Congress 
doesn't do its duty to the military when they have troops in harm's 
way, like in Iraq and in Afghanistan.

The Army doesn't leave, or the military doesn't leave their soldiers 
without the gear. What they do is tighten their belt back home. And 
that's happening now, and it's going to get worse and worse as this 
delay continues over and over.

It means training missions could be in jeopardy. It clearly means 
that operations on these large military posts around our country have 
to be reduced. Expenses have to be cut so that we keep the people in 
harm's way supplied, because we don't leave our dead or wounded on the 
battlefield, and we certainly don't leave our fighting soldiers on the 
battlefield without the equipment it takes to do the fight.

And so the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marines and the Coast 
Guard will all be contributing from home to the war zone until this 
Congress does its duty. And I think it brings shame to know that those 
folks back home just came back from their fourth rotation, and their 
resources they are counting on for their year back home are being cut 
back. They're doing it willingly, but they are being cut back so they 
can supply their fellow men and women in arms over in Iraq, in 
Afghanistan.

This is a crisis that people don't realize the strain we're putting 
on our soldiers. And then to constantly tell them, like the leader, the 
Democrat leader in the Senate, this war is lost; and those soldiers are 
looking around and saying, what war is he talking about? Where's he see 
the loss? We haven't lost. We're winning this war. That's what the 
people who are there are saying. Give those folks a chance.