---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `0012e0e146fe0240be204bbf1609ab19`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 20 May 2009`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Thank you, Mr. President.

No. 1, I would like to associate myself with the comments of the 
minority leader about Guantanamo Bay. It is a location that does 
protect our national interests in terms of a location. It is probably 
the best run military prison in the world. I have been there several 
times.

To the guard force and those who are serving at Guantanamo Bay, in 
many ways, you are the unsung heroes in this war because it is tough 
duty. You have to go through a lot to be a member of the Guantanamo Bay 
guard team.

They do a wonderful job. It is a very Geneva Conventions-compliant 
jail, and there are some pretty bad characters down there who make life 
miserable for our guard force. But those who serve at Guantanamo Bay do 
so with dignity and professionalism. Their motto, I believe, is ''honor 
bound.'' That certainly reflects upon them well.


The idea of the Congress saying we want to plan before we appropriate 
money to close Guantanamo Bay makes a lot of sense to me. We see a 
bipartisan movement here to make sure we know what we are going to do 
with the detainees who are housed at Guantanamo Bay. The American 
people should be rightly concerned about how we dispose of these 
prisoners. Quite frankly, they are not common criminals accused of 
robbing a liquor store; they are accused of being a member of al-Qaida 
or allied groups that have taken up arms against the United States. 
Their mission and their purpose is to destroy our way of life and to 
put our allies and friends in the Mideast into the dark ages. So if you 
do not want to go back to the dark ages in terms of humanity; if you 
want young girls to grow up without having acid thrown in their face; 
if you want a young woman to be able to have a say about the future of 
her children in the Mideast, then we need to come up with a rational 
policy regarding fighting al-Qaida and, once we catch them, how to 
dispose of their cases and make sure they are not only fairly treated 
but their mission and their goals are defeated and they do not return 
to the fight.

We have seen in Iraq that there are Muslim populations that do not 
want to be part of the al-Qaida agenda. Al-Qaida followed us to Iraq 
because they understood if we were successful there in creating a 
democracy in the heart of the Mideast, it would be a threat to their 
agenda. Iraq has a way to go, but I am very proud of the Iraqi people. 
They have come together. They are making political reconciliations. 
Their army and police forces are getting stronger. The story of the 
surge is that the Iraqi people joined with our forces and coalition 
forces and delivered a mighty blow against al-Qaida. Al-Qaida is, quite 
frankly, in the process of being defeated by the Iraqi people with our 
help. Now the fight goes to Pakistan and Afghanistan. I cannot think of 
a more noble cause than to take up arms and fight back against these 
terrorists who wish the world ill, who will do anything in the name of 
their religion to have their way, and who would make life miserable for 
parts of this world and eventually make life miserable for us.

Imagine a caliphate being established in Baghdad, which was their 
plan, to put the Mideast in constant turmoil. We would not be able to 
travel freely in this world. We could not interact or do business with 
the people in the Mideast. It is a very oil-rich region, so it is in 
our national security interests to stand with moderate people in the 
Mideast and other places where al-Qaida attempts to take over, and 
fight back. But when we fight back, we don't have to be like them. 
Quite frankly, if we are like them when we fight back, we will lose.

This is an ideological struggle. There is no capital to conquer. 
There is no navy to sink or air force to shoot down. We cannot kill 
enough of the terrorists to win the war. What we have to do is contain 
them, fight them, and empower those who live in the region who want to 
live in a different way, give them the capacity to defend themselves 
and bring about a stable life in their countries. That is what we are 
trying to do in Iraq. If we win in Iraq, we will have a democracy in 
the heart of the Arab world that will be an ally to this country in 
perpetuity. We will have replaced a dictator named Saddam Hussein, and 
we will have a place where we can show the world that there are Muslims 
who do not want to be governed by the al-Qaida agenda, and to me that 
is a major win in the war on terror. Now we are in Afghanistan. We have 
lost ground, but we are about to recapture that ground from the 
Taliban, which are al-Qaida sympathizers and, quite frankly, allowed 
them to operate in Afghanistan late in the last century and early in 
this century to plan the attacks of 9/11.

So that is why we are fighting. That is why we are in this 
discussion. That is why we are concerned about releasing these 
prisoners within the United States, and that is why we are concerned 
about Guantanamo Bay. We have every right and reason to be concerned as 
to how we move forward.

I want to move forward. We need a plan to move forward. We should not 
close Guantanamo Bay until we have a comprehensive, detailed, legal 
strategy as to what we will do with these prisoners. Where we put them 
is only possible if people know what we will do with them. So we have 
to explain to the American people and our allies the disposition plan. 
What are we going to do with these detainees? Then where you put them 
becomes possible. Without what to do, we are never going to find where 
to put them.

I do believe the President and our military commanders are right when 
they say it is time to start over. It is a shame we are having to start 
over, because Guantanamo Bay is a well-run jail. But as I mentioned 
before, this ideological struggle we are engaged in, the enemy has 
seized upon the abuses at Abu Ghraib, the mistakes at Guantanamo Bay, 
and they use that to our detriment. They inflame populations in the 
Mideast based on our past mistakes. Our commanders have told me to a 
person that if we could start over with detention policy and show the 
world that we have a new way of doing business--a better way of doing 
business--it would improve the ability of our troops to operate in the 
regions in question where the conflict exists; it would undercut the 
enemy; it would help our allies be more helpful to us. Our British 
friends are the best friends we could hope to have, and they have had a 
hard time with our detainee policy. So we have every reason in the 
world to want to start over, but the Congress is right not to allow us 
to start over until we have a plan. The Congress, in a bipartisan 
fashion, is absolutely right to keep Guantanamo Bay open until we have 
a complete plan. I do believe this President understands how to move 
forward with Guantanamo Bay.

The best way to move forward, in my opinion, is to collaborate with 
the Congress, to look at the military commission system, which I think 
is the proper venue to dispose of any war crimes trials. Remember, 
these people we are talking about have been accused of taking up arms 
against the United States. They are noncitizen, enemy combatants who 
represent a military threat. Military commissions have been used to try 
people such as this for hundreds of years. We did trials with German 
saboteurs who landed on the east coast of the United States for the 
purpose of sabotaging our industries. They were captured and tried in 
military commissions. So there is nothing new about the idea of a 
military commission being used against an enemy force.

I do think the President is right to reform the current commission. 
I, along with Senator McCain, Senator Warner, and others--Senator Levin 
particularly--had a bill that set up a military commission process that 
received complete Democratic support on the Armed Services Committee, 
and four Republicans. I think that document is worth going back to. The 
ideas the President has put on the table about reforming the 
commission, quite frankly, make a lot of sense to me.

So we do need to move forward. We do need to start over. If we could 
start over with a new detention policy that is comprehensive, it would 
help our war effort, it would help operations in the countries in 
question and in the


Mideast at large, and it would repair damage with our allies. Quite 
frankly, we have lost a lot of court decisions. It would give us a 
better chance to win in court.

What do I mean by starting over? Come up with a disposition plan that 
understands that the detainees at Guantanamo Bay represent a military 
threat and apply the law of armed conflict in their cases. That means 
we have to treat them humanely. The Geneva Conventions now apply to 
detainees under Common Article 3 held at Guantanamo Bay based on a 2006 
Supreme Court decision. We are bound by that convention because we are 
the leader of the convention. We have signed up to the convention. As a 
military lawyer for 25 years, I hold the Geneva Conventions near and 
dear to my heart, as every military member does, because it will 
provide protections to our troops in future wars. Yes, I know al-Qaida 
will not abide by the conventions but, quite frankly, that is no excuse 
for us to abandon what we believe in. When you capture an enemy 
prisoner, it becomes about you, not them. They don't deserve much, but 
we have to be Americans to win this war. There are plenty people in 
this world who would cut your head off without a trial. I want to show 
the world a better way. How we dispose of these prisoners can help us 
in the overall ideological struggle.


What I am proposing is that we come up with a comprehensive plan that 
will reform the military commissions and that the President come back 
to the Congress and we have another shot at the commissions to make 
them more due process friendly but we realize that the people we are 
trying are accused of war crimes and we apply the law of armed 
conflict.

I have been a military lawyer, as I said, for 25 years. The judges 
and the jurors and the lawyers who administer justice in a military 
commission setting are the same people who administer justice to our 
own troops. It is a great legal forum. You have rights in the military 
legal system. You get free legal counsel. Usually cost is not an 
object. The men and women who wear the uniform who serve as judge 
advocates take a lot of pride in their job. They are great Americans. 
They are great officers. They believe in justice. We have seen 
verdicts, and the few verdicts we have had at Guantanamo Bay indicate 
that our juries are rational. Our military jurors do hold the 
prosecution to the standards of proof and they balance the interests of 
all parties. As I say, I have never been more impressed with the legal 
system than within our military justice system. Military commissions 
need to be as much like a court-martial as possible, but practicality 
dictates some differences.

The one thing this body needs to understand is that it is illegal 
under the Geneva Conventions to try an enemy prisoner in civilian 
court. Why is that? You are afraid that civilian justice, jurors and 
judges, will have revenge on their mind. They are not covered by the 
Geneva Conventions. Participants in a military commission are covered 
by the convention--every lawyer, every judge, every juror. They have an 
obligation to hold to the tenets of the convention and any misconduct 
on their part in a trial could actually result in prosecution to them 
or disciplinary action, and that would not be true in the legal world. 
So having these trials in a military commission setting is the proper 
venue because they are accused of war crimes. Having the trials in 
military commissions is consistent with the Geneva Conventions. It is a 
world-class justice system. Quite frankly, it is the best place to 
balance our national security interests.

But to the hard part. We can do that. We can reform the commissions. 
Some of these detainees can be repatriated back to third countries in a 
way I think is rational and will not hurt our national security 
interests. But there is going to be a group of detainees--maybe half or 
more--where the evidence is sound and certain that they are a member of 
al-Qaida, but it is not of the type that you would want to go to a 
criminal trial with. It may have third country intelligence service 
information where the third country would not participate in a criminal 
trial because it would compromise their operations. Some type of 
evidence would be such that you would not disclose it in a criminal 
trial because it would compromise national security. You have to 
remember, when you try someone criminally, you have to prove the case 
beyond a reasonable doubt. You have to share the evidence with the 
defendant. You have to go through the rigors of a criminal prosecution. 
Under a military commission people are presumed innocent, and that is 
the way it should be. But I want America to understand that we are not 
charging everyone as a war criminal; we are making the accusation that 
you are a member of al-Qaida. In military law what you have to do if 
you are accusing someone of being part of the enemy force is prove by a 
preponderance of the evidence that you are, in fact, a part of the 
enemy force.

So what I would propose is to set up a hybrid system. For every 
detainee once determined to be an enemy combatant by our military or 
CIA, there will be a process to do that, a combat status review 
tribunal, and we need to improve that process--but you run each 
detainee through that process and if the military labels them as an 
unlawful enemy combatant, a member of al-Qaida, then we will do 
something we have never done in any other war, and that is allow that 
detainee to go into Federal court.

Under article 5 of the Geneva Conventions, status decisions are made 
by the military, not by civilian judges. It is usually done by an 
independent member of the military in an administrative setting. These 
are administrative hearings. But this war is different. There will 
never be an end to this war. We will never have a signing on the 
Missouri as we did in World War II. I realize that. An enemy combatant 
determination could be a de facto life sentence. So I am willing to 
build in more due process to accommodate the nature of this war.

What I have proposed is that every detainee determined to be an enemy 
combatant by our military would go to a group of military judges with 
uniform standards where the Government would have to prove to an 
independent judiciary by a preponderance of the evidence that the 
person is, in fact, an enemy combatant, and if our civilian judges who 
are trained in reviewing evidence agree with the military, that person 
can be kept off the battlefield as long as there is a military threat. 
About 12 percent of the detainees released from Guantanamo Bay have 
gone back to the fight. The No. 2 al-Qaida operative in Somalia is a 
former Gitmo detainee. It is true we put people in Gitmo, in my 
opinion, where the net was cast too large and they were not properly 
identified. You are going to make mistakes. What I want to do is have a 
process that our Nation can be proud of: transparent, robust due 
process, an independent judiciary checking and balancing the military, 
but never losing sight that the goal is to make sure that the 
determination of enemy combatant is well founded and, if it is, not to 
release people back to the fight knowing they are going to go back and 
kill Americans. That doesn't make us a better nation, to have a process 
where you have to let people go when the evidence is sound and clear 
they are going to go back to the fight. That does not make us a better 
people. You do not have to do that under the law of armed conflict. 
Let's come up with a new system that will give every detainee a full 
and fair hearing in Federal court. If they are tried for war crimes, 
put them in a new military commission, and every verdict would be 
appealed to civilian judges. Let the trials be transparent. Balance 
national security against due process. But never lose sight of the fact 
that we are dealing with people who have taken up arms against the 
United States. Some of them are so radical and their hearts have been 
hardened so much, they are so hate-filled, it would be a disaster to 
this country and the world at large to let them go in the condition 
that exists today.


Where to put them. Mr. President, 400,000 German and Japanese 
prisoners were housed in the United States during World War II, and 15 
to 20 percent, according to the historical record, were hardened Nazis. 
A hardened Nazi is at the top of the pecking order when it comes to 
mass murder. The idea that we cannot find a place to securely house 
250-plus detainees within the United States is not rational. We have 
done this before. They are not 10 feet tall.



It is my belief that you need a plan before you close Gitmo, and when 
you look at a new facility, it needs to be run by the military because 
under the Geneva Conventions you cannot house enemy prisoners in 
civilian jails.

I look forward to working with the President of the United States to 
start over, but we need a plan to start over--a plan to try these 
people, consistent with the law of armed conflict, in a military 
commission that is reformed, that will administer justice fairly and 
balanced and will realize that these people present a military threat. 
We need a system to allow for keeping the detainees off of the 
battlefield--who are committed jihadists--that will allow them to have 
their day in court with an independent judiciary but also will allow a 
process that will keep them off the battlefield as long as they are 
dangerous. If the judges agree with the military on the enemy 
combatant, you should have an annual review process to determine 
whether they present a military threat. No one should be held without a 
pathway forward, but no one should be released because you think this 
is a crime we are dealing with.

If you criminalize this war and do not use the law of armed conflict, 
you are going to make a huge mistake. There are countries that have 
terror suspects in jail right now that are about to have to release 
them because under criminal law you cannot hold them indefinitely. 
Under military law, you can hold the enemy force off the battlefield if 
they are properly identified as part of that force, as part of the 
military threat. That has been the law for hundreds of years, and it 
ought to be the law we apply. Where we put them is important, but what 
we do with them is more important, how we try them and detain them.

We have a chance to show the world that there is a better way, a 
chance to showcase our values. Yes, give them lawyers and put the 
evidence against them under scrutiny. Put burdens on ourselves, make us 
prove the case--not just say it is so, prove it in a court that is 
appropriate for the venue we are talking about, appropriate for the 
decisions we are about to make. Put that burden on us, and treat them 
humanely because that is the way we are. That may not be the way they 
are, but that is the way we are. That makes us better than they. The 
fact that we will do all these things and they won't is a strength of 
this Nation, not a weakness. Some people in the past have lost sight of 
that. The fact that we give them lawyers and a trial based on the 
evidence, not prejudice and passion, makes us stronger.

We will find a better way to do what we have been doing in the past. 
We will find a way to close Gitmo, and we will come up with a new plan 
because we are Americans and we are committed to our value system and 
committed to beating this enemy.

I look forward to working with the Members of this body to come up 
with a comprehensive disposition plan that will find a new way to try 
these people, a new process to hold them off the battlefield, and 
always operating within our values, which will allow our commanders the 
chance to start over in the region. Every military commander I have 
talked to said it would be beneficial to this country to start over 
with detainee policy. They also understand that we are at war and we 
need to have a national security system.

As to where we put them, there were six prison camps in South 
Carolina during World War II. There is a brig near the city of 
Charleston, a naval brig. It is not the location, because it is near a 
population center. The place I have in mind is an isolated part of the 
United States--if necessary--that will be run by the military, with a 
secure perimeter, that will be operating within the Geneva Conventions 
requirement, that will have a justice system attached to it, that will 
be transparent and open where we can administer justice and reattach 
our Nation to the values we hold so dear.

Part of war is capturing prisoners. That is part of war. We know what 
the other side does when they capture a prisoner. Let the world know 
that America has a better way, a way that will not only make us safe 
but help us win this war.

In conclusion, the goal of this effort to start over is to undermine 
the enemy's propaganda that has been used against us because of our 
past mistakes, allow our allies to come join us in a new way forward, 
and protect us against a vicious enemy that needs to be held off the 
battlefield, maybe forever. Some of these people are literally going to 
die in jail, and that is OK with me because I think the evidence 
suggests that if we ever let them out, they would go back to killing 
Americans, our friends, and our allies. I will not shed a tear. The way 
to avoid getting killed or going to jail forever is, not to join al-
Qaida. If you have made that decision to do so, let it be said that 
this Nation is going to stand up to you and fight back, within our 
value system. Some of these people will never see the light of day, and 
that is the right decision. Some of them can be released.

Let's have a process that understands what we are trying to do as a 
nation. Make sure it is national security oriented, make sure it is 
within our value system but also that everything we do is as a result 
of a nation that has been attacked by these people. They have not 
robbed a liquor store; they have tried to destroy our way of life. The 
legal system I am proposing recognizes that distinction.

I yield the floor.