---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `001e73b316f1b9c76832eff8dac25c61`
`Mr. WAXMAN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Chairman, this Congress, the House and Senate, have 
passed important Federal contracting reforms, but neither body has 
assembled them into a comprehensive package. My ''clean contracting'' 
amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act consolidates these 
provisions into a single reform measure.

I want to particularly thank Chairman Skelton for working with me to 
help bring this amendment before the House today. He has been a 
tremendous partner in the fight to root out waste, fraud and abuse.

The clean contracting amendment would require agencies to enhance 
competition in contracting, limit the use of abuse-prone contracts, 
rebuild the Federal acquisition workforce, strengthen antifraud 
measures, and increase transparency in Federal contracting.

The provisions of the amendment are based on provisions that have 
already passed the House or Senate, or are government-wide versions of 
Defense provisions that passed in last year's DOD authorization. They 
respond to procurement abuses that the Oversight Committee, the Armed 
Services Committees, and other committees have identified in hearings 
and investigative reports.

The egregious procurement practices that have occurred in Iraq and in 
response to Hurricane Katrina and at the


Department of Homeland Security need to be halted. They may enrich 
companies like Halliburton and Blackwater, but have squandered billions 
of dollars that belong to the taxpayer.

This amendment says that Congress is serious about stopping waste, 
fraud and abuse. One important provision deals directly with no-bid 
contracts and requires agencies to develop plans to promote 
competition. This provision is needed because the value of contracts 
awarded without full and open competition has more than tripled since 
2000, rising from $67 billion in 2000 to almost $207 billion in 2006. 
Full and open competition provides the government with its best 
guarantee that tax dollars are being spent economically and 
efficiently.

Another important measure would limit the length of no-bid contracts 
awarded in emergencies to 9 months. This provision would end the abuses 
that occurred after Hurricane Katrina when many ''emergency'' contracts 
were allowed to continue for years.

The amendment would also curb the use of cost-plus contracts, which 
provide contractors with little incentive to control costs. Spending 
under this kind of contract grew over 75 percent between 2000 and 2005.

Another important provision would prohibit contractors from charging 
excessive mark-up charges for work done by subcontractors. This would 
prevent the infamous ''blue roof'' scandal following Hurricane Katrina 
where taxpayers paid almost $2,500 for something that actually cost 
$300.

Other vital provisions of this amendment would provide whistleblower 
protections to civilian contractor employees, fund increases in the 
acquisition workforce, and prevent the abuse of interagency contracts, 
as was the case at Abu Ghraib, where interrogators were hired using an 
Interior Department contract for information technology.

The amendment also includes three provisions which have recently 
passed the House under suspension of the rules. One, authored by 
Representative Welch, requires mandatory reporting of fraud by 
contractors. Another, based on the bill by Representative Murphy, 
requires the disclosure of CEO salaries if a company makes most of its 
money from government funds. The third, based on a bill authored by 
Representative Maloney, requires the development of a database of 
suspension and debarment information. I want to commend these Members 
for their hard work on these issues.

I also want to particularly thank Chairwoman Velazquez of the Small 
Business Committee for working with us to perfect some of the language 
in this bill.

I urge Members to support the Clean Contracting amendment.

I reserve the balance of my time.