---
---

# BARRING ACCESS OF LONG-HAUL MEXICAN TRUCKS
## `0026949d9105aa7c5a94cc0097e79b25`
`Mr. DeFAZIO — 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. DeFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I would like to point out that I believe that this is a long-standing 
desire on the part of both the President--whose name shall not be 
mentioned at least on the Republican side of the aisle--George W. Bush 
and other members of his administration. In fact, as early as December 
26, 1996, the headline


of the Journal of Commerce, Texas, ''Governor Berates Clinton Over 
Delay in Border Opening.'' And then June 17, 1996, Texas Governor 
George W. Bush, now the President of the United States, issues a call 
for the start of NAFTA trucking.

George W. Bush has long been an advocate of fully opening the border. 
In fact, before 9/11 he wanted to move to a borderless state between 
the U.S. and Mexico. Security concerns overrode him there. But he's 
trying to do it with trucks.

And hand-in-glove with the President is Secretary of Transportation, 
Mary Peters. Her track record on this is disingenuous at best, 
deceitful, or perhaps she perjured herself. She said in her Senate 
confirmation hearing, ''There are no immediate plans to pursue a pilot 
program.''

But since she made that statement, we find that while she was head of 
the Federal Highway Administration from 2001 to 2005, plans were well 
underway by the Bush administration to open the border. It was first 
raised in the fall of 2004 between former Secretary Mineta and Mexican 
Secretary Cerisola in November of 2004.

And in early 2005, DOT actually was crafting a proposal. In a 
document entitled, ''Implementing NAFTA's Commercial Motor Carrier 
access Provisions--A Pilot Approach,'' outlined early plans for pilot 
programming. And it said, ''The essence of a pilot would be to create a 
crack in the current impasse and allow the pressure of time, and most 
importantly, the Mexican carriers not participating in the pilot, to 
enlarge the crack, to a point that a complete liberalization of the 
border becomes a fait accompli.''

They used French despite their disdain for the French position of not 
invading Iraq.

However, you know, as I said, Ms. Peters contradicted that.

So what we have here is an administration that is dead set to defy 
the will of the United States Congress as expressed in a bipartisan way 
to protect the safety of the American traveling public and to prevent 
the continuation and/or expansion of this program.

We should, Mr. Speaker, pass this bill with hopefully a unanimous 
vote or near unanimous vote to send yet one last message to this Bush 
administration and the law defiers and the dissemblers downtown and 
tell them to bring this program to a halt as they promised. It would 
have halted on September 6, 2007.

With that, I reserve the balance of my time.