# HONORING COLONEL PAUL J. KENNEDY OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS
## `0027153e9001d55fd6c3b9b034be52ae`
`Mr. PRICE of North Carolina â€” 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor COL Paul 
J. Kennedy of the United States Marine Corps. Colonel Kennedy is 
finishing his tenure as the Marine Corps liaison to the House of 
Representatives, and will soon head to my home State to take command of 
the Second Marine Regiment, Second Marine Division at Camp Lejeune, 
North Carolina.

During the last 2 years, Colonel Kennedy has led the small contingent 
of Marines that serve as the direct interface between the Marine Corps 
and the members and staff of the House. Under his leadership, Colonel 
Kennedy and his colleagues have established strong professional 
relationships throughout this body, building trust, confidence, and 
mutual commitment between the Marine Corps and congressional leaders. 
His integrity, knowledge, and personal attention to the needs and 
interests of members have garnered great respect and appreciation 
throughout this Chamber.

I have particularly benefited from Colonel Kennedy's leadership as he 
has become an integral part of the efforts of the House Democracy 
Assistance Commission (HDAC), which I lead along with Representative 
David Dreier. During the last 2 years, our Commission has traveled to 
numerous far-flung destinations in the service of our mission to 
strengthen the capabilities of legislatures in developing democracies. 
Not only has Colonel Kennedy organized and escorted every single HDAC 
delegation, he has jumped at the chance to do so, foregoing travel to 
more luxurious destinations in favor of our trips to developing nations 
like Liberia, Afghanistan, and Haiti. He has strongly supported the 
mission of our Commission, and has moved mountains to ensure that we 
can carry out our work, no matter what complications arise.

As I have gotten to know Colonel Kennedy, I have been tremendously 
impressed, not just by his professionalism and integrity, but also by 
his commitment to the United States Marine Corps. He treats the men and 
women under his direction in the Marine Liaison office with great 
respect and has taken particularly seriously his duty to mentor young 
Marines of lower rank. As he leaves to take command of a 5,000-Marine 
unit, his attention to the development of younger Marines will no doubt 
be greatly valued.

Colonel Kennedy has also been able to share with members of Congress 
detailed and valuable insights into the war in Iraq. Having served as a 
Battalion Commander in Anbar Province in Iraq during Operation Iraqi 
Freedom II, Colonel Kennedy gained first hand experience in helping our 
nation confront the new and complex challenges that war has 
highlighted.

While Colonel Kennedy will be sorely missed by this institution, we 
can take comfort in the knowledge that a man of such tremendous 
personal character and ability will continue to serve and strengthen 
the United States Marine Corps and the 5,000 Marines under his command 
at Camp Lejeune. Let me offer my heartfelt appreciation and best wishes 
to Colonel Kennedy as he embarks on this new assignment.
