# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `0034a88347f9ce47b13cad9f6926474f`
`Mr. COHEN — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, back in February when this Congress started 
the 110th, there was a proposal up here, a resolution that passed with 
mostly Democrat support, very few Republicans, to say we supported the 
troops but we opposed the surge or the escalation. Since that time, we 
have put 20,000 or 30,000 more troops into Iraq, and since that time we 
have had some of the deadliest months that we have incurred in this 
failed war in the Middle East.

As time has gone on, we have seen Senators Voinovich; Lamar Alexander 
from my home State; Lugar; and others on the Republican side in the 
Senate come forth and say we need a change of direction. The 
handwriting has been on the wall in both cloakrooms. The handwriter got 
to the Democratic cloakroom a lot sooner than apparently the handwriter 
got to the Republican cloakroom. Either that, or the optometrist hasn't 
made it over to the other side. But the handwriting is on the wall, and 
in the interim there are American men and women dying needlessly. Over 
3,600 have died; many, many, many, many more casualties, and the cost 
to this country will be great.

While I was home during the home workweek, I saw a lady who told me 
her son has been at Desert Storm. He was still in the military. He had 
been in Iraq once before. And she told me he told her, Mother, I am 
proud to fight for my country. I have done it twice. But there is no 
purpose over there, there is no reason to be over there. We need to 
come home. I have heard it over and over and over again from the 
mothers of the soldiers who come home with testimony to our failed 
foreign policy.

How many, how many, how many more must die? How many more limbs must 
be lost before the handwriting on the wall in the Republican cloakroom 
is read? I ask you to look in your own hearts. Think of the soldiers as 
your children, they are your constituents, and help redeploy them. We 
are not saying in this proposal that we come home entirely. We keep 
troops for certain causes.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
