# FUTURE INVOLVEMENT IN AFGHANISTAN
## `0035a463dff61f6393841a1684a14839`
`Mr. KAGEN — 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. KAGEN. I want to thank you, Mr. Jones, Mr. Paul, Mr. McGovern for 
this commencement of a conversation and a real discussion about what 
America's best interests are. I know that when we put our heads 
together, put our minds together, we'll find a more positive way 
forward in beginning to solve this problem. I will finish with a brief 
story.

In 1979, I was in training, in Milwaukee, at the Medical College of 
Wisconsin, and there training in the specialty of allergy and 
immunology with me was the son of a senator of Pakistan. And that was 
the time when Russia invaded Afghanistan. I came into the laboratory, 
and I said, Nassir, your country is going to be next. And he looked up 
at me, and he said, Oh, Steve, don't worry. It's easy to get into 
Afghanistan. It's very hard to get out, and when the Russians leave in 
5 or 10 years, they'll be shot in the ''blank'' when they leave.

That same experience is being experienced today by our soldiers, by 
our Nation, by our pocketbook. So every time we hear about someone 
being wounded and injured, whether it's our own soldier or a civilian 
or an enemy, that bomb and that bullet has real echoes economically 
here at home. In the end, the exit strategy may be determined, as Mr. 
Paul said, by our economy. The question is: Will the strategy work? Can 
we afford it? And is it the ethical thing to do?

At this point in time, I don't believe we can afford to stay on the 
current path we're on in Afghanistan and in Iraq. We have to make 
certain that our soldiers are safe here at home and that we have an 
economy that can support all of the people that we have the honor of 
representing.
