# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `00409ea96af682d5867f470577820dc7`
`Mr. TURNER â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. TURNER. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for accommodating me 
so I might have some time to speak on this issue this evening.

Today, Speaker Pelosi has continued with what is called a debate on 
the Iraq war, but this is not a debate. The floor here is empty, except 
for the Members scheduled to come to the floor for the record and 
comment on the failures or success of the war on terror, the conflict 
in Iraq, prewar intelligence, the search for weapons of mass 
destruction, reconstruction efforts, al Qaeda, Saddam Hussein and, yes, 
George Bush. No real debate.

School children across America who are schooled in debate would not 
recognize what has happened here today, which should be the 
intellectual process of argument, because to call these series of 
speeches a debate is fiction, just as to call the nonbinding resolution 
proposed by the Speaker as congressional action is fiction.

This resolution has no binding effect on the administration, and it 
does not even have any binding effect on this body of Congress. This 
resolution is not a document from which decisions will be made or any 
action taken. This is not policy. This is not governance. It is, at 
best, a press conference. It is just talk.

The travesty of this fiction of a debate on the House floor is that 
there is no plan debated or alternatives for us to consider, only 
opposition. We do not have on the table a plan, an answer, or an action 
for us to take.

Now, I was not a Member of Congress when this House was asked in 
October of 2002 to grant the President authority to go into Iraq, and 
neither were 66 of my Republican Members of Congress. If they were with 
me they would fill this well, 66 of us that were not here on the 
Republican side when the President asked for authority to go into Iraq. 
However, I believe there are 55 Democratic colleagues who voted to send 
troops to Iraq who are still here today, and yet even those 55 Members 
who voted to send troops to Iraq offer no alternative plan. At a 
minimum you would think if you voted ''yes'' to send troops you would 
feel responsible and have a plan before publicly disapproving of the 
President's plan.

Now, there is certainly enough about the administration's handling of 
the Iraq conflict to disapprove of if we were to have a real debate. 
There is no question that serious mistakes have been


made in the execution of the Iraqi conflict. But today we will not 
debate solutions because, unfortunately, this resolution does not 
provide any.

In the war on terror, we have real enemies who want to kill Americans 
and our allies. No nonbinding resolution passed on this House floor 
will change that reality.

This is not a debate but it should be. The risks to our country are 
great. Our enemies and our men and women in uniform are listening. The 
only proposal brought forth by the Speaker is a statement of opposition 
and disapproval.

The House and the administration should work together on a bipartisan 
plan for winning the war on terror, a plan with a commitment that is 
not undermined by political expediency or partisan division.

