---
---

# AFGHANISTAN
## `0043389c008d80d126adc998b737223a`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 16 September 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. I think the statement by our top uniformed military 
officer, ADM Mike Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
reflects what General McChrystal and everybody on the ground in 
Afghanistan has said, this is an urgent matter. The President 
recognized that when he sent the 21,000 additional troops.

Most everybody in this Chamber and in the House will accept the fact 
that it would have a devastating effect on America's national security 
and the security of the world if we lost Afghanistan. But then comes 
the question--incidentally, President Obama himself said this in a 
statement he made a while ago. He said we cannot muddle through in 
Afghanistan. It requires a decisive commitment to achieve victory.

We learned that in Iraq. Counterinsurgency, such as we are involved 
in in Afghanistan, is manpower intensive.

That is the question the administration and we here in Congress have. 
If you agree it is in the vital national security interests of the 
United States to succeed in Afghanistan, then you have to decide how we 
can best do that. To me the answer is clear. We need more troops there, 
American troops, while the Afghans are being trained to take over 
themselves. They cannot just be trainers. As Admiral Mullen made clear 
yesterday, they need to be combat troops. They need to be combat troops 
because, without the security that the American combat troops can 
singularly and uniquely provide in the short term, there cannot even be 
training of the Afghans. There certainly cannot be governance as we 
know it and there cannot be a prospect for economic development.

We need to make this decision soon. Weather has an effect.