# AMERICAN VETERANS DISABLED FOR LIFE COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT
## `0043b181167d97085205ee40422183d7`
`Mr. KIRK — 18 June 2008`

---


Mr. KIRK. Mr. Speaker, as the co-author of this legislation, the 
American Veterans Disabled For Life Commemorative Coin Act, I want to 
especially thank my partner, Dennis Moore of Kansas, for his leadership 
in bringing this bill to the floor, where we are now, on to the White 
House for enactment.

Our legislation seeks to recognize the sacrifices made by more than 3 
million living disabled veterans by building a memorial for them right 
here within sight of the Capitol.

In 2000, Congress authorized the construction of this memorial just 
southwest of the Rayburn building. In December 2006, the President 
signed a law that transferred control of the land for the memorial from 
the District of Columbia to the National Park Service. In February 
2007, I joined my colleague from Illinois (Mr. Hare) in introducing a 
bill that extended the authorization for this memorial through 2015, 
and that was signed into law in October.



Now, the American Veterans Disabled for Life Memorial Foundation 
needs to raise approximately $65 million for the construction of this 
memorial.

Our legislation today will authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to 
mint commemorative silver dollars that will be sold with a surcharge to 
help the American Veterans Disabled for Life Memorial Foundation to 
raise the money it will need to construct this memorial to our heroes. 
Not only will these coins be collector's items, but they will help 
raise millions for the memorial.

In crafting the bill, Congressman Moore and I had the privilege to 
meet an extraordinary young man, Sergeant Bryan Anderson from Rolling 
Meadows, Illinois. Bryan's story is, unfortunately, all too common for 
many veterans from Iraq, but his spirit is very uncommon, and his 
attitude sets him completely apart from the average person.

You see, Bryan at the age of 26, who finished basic training on 
September 12, 2001, lost both his legs and an arm to a roadside bomb in 
Iraq. Bryan jokes that he would have lost both his arms if he hadn't 
been smoking when the bomb detonated. His constant sense of humor and 
his determination are clearly apparent and came through loud and clear 
in a long interview he gave to Esquire magazine.

In it, Bryan said, ''This doesn't define me. It may be how I look on 
the outside, but it's not who I am. I guess you could remember me 
easily as being a triple amputee, but it's not who I am, has nothing to 
do with who I am. I've always been the same person.''

Bryan is a self-described ''adrenaline junkie,'' who hopes to become 
a Hollywood stuntman. Since his appearance on the cover of Esquire, 
he's had numerous opportunities to use his story for some sort of 
political gain, but he has always forgiven that opportunity. For Bryan, 
he doesn't like to talk about politics, but always wants to talk and 
support the American Veterans Disabled for Life Memorial.

Washington has many advocates for many causes here in this town but 
none more effective than Bryan Anderson. With Bryan, you see what you 
get. He is a veteran with an inspirational story, who wants to see this 
memorial built, not just for himself but for all of his disabled 
veterans from World War II, from Korea, from Vietnam, from Desert 
Storm, and from his conflicts both in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Bryan is about as genuine as you can ever get, and with passage of 
this legislation, we come closer to the day when Bryan will return to 
Capitol Hill to visit the memorial that he helped to build.

I want to thank my friend Dennis and also a member of my staff, 
Patrick Magnuson, for helping shepherd this legislation through the 
House.

With more than 3 million disabled American veterans alive today, it 
is fitting that we now take the time to build a memorial in 
memorializing their sacrifice here within sight of the Capitol in 
Washington, D.C.

As someone who is one of the only Members of Congress still serving 
in the military as a Naval Reserve intelligence officer, it's my honor 
to be the lead Republican cosponsor of this legislation. It's our hope 
now that we go to the White House, enact this legislation, mint this 
coin, raise millions for our fellow disabled American veterans, and 
then build this memorial, not just to show all of the veterans how much 
we care about them and honor them but


also to remind future Congresses that freedom is not free, that a price 
is very high when the President calls on our Armed Forces to deliver, 
and when they do, we honor them and will always remember their memory.