---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `0050d26177d28af35fcdf71c2aa52b3b`
`Mr. GILCHREST — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. GILCHREST. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Missouri for 
yielding.

The question before us today is if failure in Iraq is not an option 
and staying the course is not working, what are our options? It is 
vital that we focus our attention this morning and this afternoon on 
that question, then formulate an integrated set of proposals that 
include the basic premise that a stable Iraq and a stable Middle East 
is in the vital interest of the United States and the international 
community, also taking into consideration here the military's 
assertion, through General Petraeus, that the war cannot be won with a 
military alone. An integrated set of proposals for an overall strategy 
then must include, which is in this bill before us today, diplomatic 
efforts, political efforts, economic efforts, social, humanitarian, 
cultural, and a military component. We must also garner the 
constructive engagement of all of Iraq's neighbors.

When Nixon went to China, the domino theory of Vietnam became 
irrelevant. When Nixon went to China, there was a Sino-Soviet split 
that advantaged the United States. If we go to Iran, al Qaeda in Iraq 
will be irrelevant. If we go to Iran, the idea of a spread of 
terrorism, of those problems in the Middle East will be eliminated.

The idea that this piece of legislation moves forward in the next 
step of the Iraq Study Group is, in my judgment, on the right mark. It 
is profound. And I thank the gentleman from Missouri for yielding and 
for bringing this legislation to the floor.