---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `005665cd3b74617526207f7e8d30b157`
`Mr. WOLF — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 2 minutes.

Mr. Chairman, this restores $156 million of the $458 million that was 
cut. The amendment that we're going to offer today is in compliance 
with the Iraq Study Group.

Now, about 226 Members of this body said they favor the Iraq Study 
Group. What this does is this puts money back in for demining. If you 
listen to the news today, there were 13 killed with regard to IEDs in 
the effort for demining. This also puts money in for training for human 
rights.

Now, whether you want to go out today or whether you want to do 
whatever you want to do, we still need training for human rights, we 
still need training for capacity for democracy and governance, we still 
need ways for reconciliation to bring the parties together. We are 
always hearing about the differences between the different factions. 
That's what this money is for.

The administration originally asked for $458 million. We knocked it 
down. We brought them in and said, what do you really need? They said, 
this is what we really need.

This amendment is what the Iraq Study Group recommended. The Iraq 
Study Group recommendation number 6 says, ''Building the capacity of 
the


Iraqi Government should be at the heart of U.S. reconstruction efforts, 
and capacity building demands additional U.S. resources.'' That's what 
this is on.

I urge Members on both sides, this ought not be a political issue or 
partisan issue, to support this amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.