---
---

# COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2007
## `00652953c59b1901ef7d8f8125a998fa`
`Ms. PELOSI — 11 July 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank you, Mr. 
Chairman, for your great leadership in bringing us to this historic 
day. I thank all of the other members of the committee for their 
leadership in making this day possible, for expanding America's middle 
class, for giving opportunity to America's children, and for making our 
future brighter.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the College Cost Reduction 
Act of 2007.

In 1944, when the GI Bill of Rights became law, our Nation made a 
decision. They made a decision to invest in the future. It was an 
investment that transformed the lives of millions of Americans. It 
transformed America to the benefit of all Americans. Indeed, it built 
America.

Over the years, the GI Bill offered opportunity and economic security 
through education to more than 20 million of the brave men and women 
who wore our Nation's uniform. It has given America hundreds of 
thousands of engineers, teachers and doctors, and it has given us a 
model for the value of investing in the education of our people for our 
country.

Today, with this legislation, we will make the single largest 
increase in college aid since the GI Bill of Rights revolutionized 
America. It is an investment for a bright future for our children, and, 
just as the GI Bill has been, an investment in a bright future for our 
Nation.

Any economist will tell you that any dollar spent on education is a 
dollar that makes a big return to our Treasury. In fact, no dollar 
invested or spent, no tax credit, no financial initiative you can name 
brings more money to the Treasury than investing in education.

I want to again thank Chairman Miller and the distinguished members 
of the Education and Labor Committee for their leadership in making 
sure higher education is affordable and accessible.

In today's competitive job market, a college education often makes 
all the difference. Americans with college degrees can earn 60 percent 
more than those with only a high school diploma. So in the interests of 
individuals, this is very, very important. Indeed, higher education is 
the single best investment our young people can make in themselves, 
that families can make in the success of their children, and our 
country can make in its future strength.

It is important to note why this legislation is very important. 
Financial barriers will prevent 4/1/2/ million high school graduates 
from attending a 4-year public college over the next decade and prevent 
another 2 million high school graduates from attending any college at 
all. Over 6/1/2/ million students will not have access to some college 
or any college at all.

Higher education, as we all know, is the key to achieving the 
American dream. This legislation has made sure that all who are 
qualified and determined to have that education will have access to it.

It has been said that cutting interest rates in half will make it 
possible for more Americans to achieve their potential. This is 
especially important for strengthening the middle class. Middle-income 
families in America struggle to educate their children. This interest 
rate cut is very important for them. By increasing the maximum Pell 
Grant scholarship by over $500, nearly 6 million students will be given 
help to afford expanding college costs.

In hearing the debate on the cost, I think that it is important to 
note that the cost of this bill is the equivalent of 6 weeks in Iraq; 6 
weeks in Iraq. Imagine that, for 6 weeks in Iraq, we can expand higher 
education to all who wish to achieve it in America. That investment has 
a return to our Treasury. It will grow our economy and prepare us for 
the future.

This legislation is a very important part of our Innovation Agenda, 
where we do need to invest in many more scientists, engineers and 
mathematicians. By giving opportunities to highly qualified teachers in 
our classrooms for this Innovation Agenda, it provides an essential 
component for a bright future for our Nation. It will provide up-front 
tuition for highly qualified teachers who agree to teach in high-needs 
areas, increase loan forgiveness for those who practice civic 
responsibility and encourage students to give back to their communities 
as teachers, librarians, childcare and welfare workers and public 
sector employees.

Members have talked about this over and over again. The fact is that, 
again, for the cost of 6 weeks in Iraq, we can ensure the education of 
our young people across the broad spectrum of America. We can reward 
those who want to be civically involved as teachers. It is all paid 
for.

Today, we are not only relieving the debt of America's students, but 
doing so in a way that not only helps relieve their debt but does not 
heap mountains of national debt on top of our young people. This 
legislation keeps our promise to pay as you go with no new deficit 
spending. Democrats believe that is just as essential as ensuring that 
American students have the opportunity to attend college.

Mr. Speaker, the College Cost Reduction Act strengthens the future 
for our students and it strengthens our Nation. I think, again, that 
this is a historic day, because it is a day that is about the American 
dream. It is a day about expanding opportunity in our country. It is a 
day that recognizes that the best dollar that we can spend is a dollar 
spent on education. It recognizes that education is the key to a 
brilliant future, not only for the self-fulfillment of our people, but 
for the success of our country. It is about our self-fulfillment 
personally. It is about growing our economy. It is about our National 
security. It is about carrying the banner of our Founders who have made 
a commitment to future generations.

Thank you, Chairman Miller, and members of the Committee on Education 
and Labor, for helping us honor that commitment to future generations. 
I urge our colleagues to support this very important and historic 
legislation.