# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `006bab7d7605d7f538e30dfc3a959fdc`
`Mr. SKELTON — 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Chairman, I respectfully disagree with this 
amendment, and I respectfully oppose it. This amendment sends exactly 
the wrong message, focusing on an exit strategy


which may well reinforce the perception among the Afghans that we're 
not committed to protecting them from the Taliban and al Qaeda.

Mr. Chairman, we have a new commander on the ground. We've added tens 
of thousands of troops. We're adding hundreds of civilian experts. We 
should not undermine those efforts. Commanders make a difference. As 
you know, we have General McChrystal who has replaced General McKiernan 
in Afghanistan. History shows that new commanders make a big 
difference. Let's give General McChrystal the opportunity to show what 
American troops, American civilians, the State Department and others 
can do. History shows that. President Lincoln replaced General 
McClellan, General Burnside, General Hooker, General Meade and finally 
ended up with a man by the name of Grant. General Auchinleck was 
replaced by Bernard Montgomery, and the great Battle of El Alamein came 
to pass.

Let's give General McChrystal the opportunity. Further let me add, 
Mr. Chairman, this amendment is intended to get the administration to 
lay out its strategy; but section 1217 of our bill already requires the 
administration to lay out goals, to lay out timelines and conduct 
regular assessments. That's the way General McChrystal should be 
judged. Let's do that.

I do oppose this amendment very respectfully.