# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `006b374386bcee1617fbd764c7840be4`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Virginia for his 
comments. I would like to point out that the Senator from Virginia says 
his amendment has a waiver associated with it, so, therefore, it should 
be acceptable to us. I would like to quote from Secretary Gates's 
letter to Senator Graham. He says:




 Although the amendment language does provide the President 


 a waiver for ''operational emergencies''--


''Operational emergencies''--not just a waiver, but there has to be 
an operational emergency--



 it is neither practical nor desirable for the President to 


 have to rely on waivers to manage the global demands on U.S. 


 military forces. Moreover, the amendment would serve to 


 advance the dangerous perception by regional adversaries that 


 the U.S. is tied down and overextended.


So I think we ought to understand what this waiver really means. Of 
course, Secretary Gates is a political appointee. That is the way the 
Government functions. But to somehow, therefore, question his judgment 
because he is a political appointee is inappropriate, I say to the 
Senator from Virginia.

GEN Brent Scowcroft, whom the Senator from Virginia referred to, 
said: The costs of staying are visible. The costs of getting out are 
almost never discussed. If we get out before Iraq is stable, the entire 
Middle East region might start to resemble Iraq today. Getting out is 
not a solution.

Now, that is the view of one of the most respected men in America. He 
also was a political appointee at one time as the President's National 
Security Adviser. He believed very strongly we should not have gone to 
Iraq, and I would be glad someday, along with Senator Webb and Senator 
Hagel, to talk about all the reasons why we should or should not have. 
But the fact we are where we are today, in his view, is very clear.

Now, on the issue of constitutionality, it clearly violates the 
principles of separation of powers. Congress has no business in wartime 
passing a law telling the Department of Defense which of its fully 
trained troops it can and cannot use in carrying out combat operations.

As we all know, this dwell time provision, as I said, has been tried 
before. The President, when it was included in the Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, said:




 [T]he micro-management in this legislation is unacceptable 


 because it would create a series of requirements that do not 


 provide the flexibility needed to conduct the war.



 This legislation is unconstitutional because it purports to 


 direct the conduct of operations of the war in a way that 


 infringes upon the powers vested in the Presidency by the 


 Constitution, including as Commander in Chief of the Armed 


 Forces.


The Senator from Virginia referred to article I, section 8 of the 
Constitution, which gives Congress the power ''to make Rules for the 
Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces.'' Well, clearly 
that applies to pay, equipment, end strength, basing, and most of the 
training, equipping, and organizing functions that are vested in the 
services under the Goldwater-Nichols Act. But the article I power 
cannot be employed to accomplish unconstitutional ends, and that would 
include restricting the President's authority as Commander in Chief in 
wartime to direct the movement of U.S. forces.

Justice Robert Jackson, who served as President Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt's Attorney General, said:




 The President's responsibility as Commander in Chief 


 embraces the authority to command and direct the armed forces 


 in their immediate movements and operations, designed to 


 protect the security and effectuate the defense of the United 


 States.


I submit that current policies regarding combat unit rotations, tour 
length, and dwell time that affect our brave men and women in uniform 
fall squarely under that authority.

In his letter, as I mentioned before, Secretary Gates addressed this 
constitutional question. He said:




 The amendment would unreasonably burden the President's 


 exercise of his Constitutional authorities, including his 


 authority as Commander in Chief. In particular, the amendment 


 would hinder the President's ability to conduct diplomatic, 


 military, and intelligence activities and limit his ability 


 to move military forces as necessary to secure the national 


 security.


Let's consider other legislation--the Goldwater-Nichols Act of 1986--
which fundamentally reorganized the Department of Defense and reflected 
some serious thought about how wars ought to be conducted. The act 
says:




 Unless otherwise directed by the President, the chain of 


 command to a unified or specified command runs--



 from the President to the Secretary of Defense; and



 from the Secretary of Defense to the commander of the 


 combatant command.


I see no mention of Congress in that chain of command.

The Goldwater-Nichols Act also has a section titled 
''Responsibilities of the Combatant Commanders'' that says: The 
commander of a combatant command is responsible to the President and to 
the Secretary of Defense for the performance of missions assigned to 
that command by the President or by the Secretary with the approval of 
the President. Again, no mention of Congress in that chain of command.

I want to clarify to my friend from Virginia, I have--again, I 
repeat, and I


am sure I will repeat several times in the conduct of this discussion--
I have no doubt that the intent of the Senator from Virginia is to 
relieve this terrible burden of service that is being laid upon a few 
Americans. He and I both know people who have been to Iraq and 
Afghanistan three and four times--an incredible level of service. The 
National Guard has never, ever that I know of in my study of history 
borne the burden they have today. These citizen soldiers have performed 
not only at the same level but sometimes at a higher level of our 
professional standing Army, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Navy. But the 
fact is, the amendment of the Senator from Virginia--I believe and am 
convinced from my study of the Constitution, my view of the role of the 
Commander in Chief, what is at stake in Iraq, as I pointed out--will 
have the effect of reversing what has been a successful strategy 
employed by General Petraeus, General Odierno, and the brave men and 
women. I have no doubt of the intention of the Senator from Virginia in 
this amendment, but I have great concerns and conviction that the 
effect of this amendment would have impacts that would lead to greater 
consequences and require, eventually, over time, because of chaos in 
the region, greater sacrifice of American blood and treasure.

I yield the floor.