# REMEMBERING GENERAL WAYNE A. DOWNING
## `006da142c4212fc2dbdd2e0350cf2a69`
`Mr. REED — 31 July 2007`

---

 Mr. REED. Mr. President, today, with a heavy heart, I 
recognize an American patriot and public servant who passed away on 
July 17, 2007: GEN Wayne A. Downing, U.S. Army, Retired.

Born on May 10, 1940, in Peoria, IL, General Downing graduated from 
the Spalding Institute in 1958 and was then appointed to the U.S. 
Military Academy. Following his graduation from West Point in 1962, 
General Downing served two combat tours in Vietnam as a junior infantry 
officer.

General Downing served his country for 34 years in a variety of 
command assignments in infantry, armored, special operations, and joint 
units, culminating in his appointment as the commander-in-chief of the 
U.S. Special Operations Command. As a general officer, he commanded the 
special operations of all services during the 1989 invasion of Panama 
and commanded a joint special operations task force operating deep 
behind the Iraqi lines during Operation Desert Storm.

General Downing's reputation was that of a smart, decisive, forceful, 
and caring leader, known in particular for his unwavering determination 
to accomplish any mission assigned and provide his soldiers the best 
possible support. His personal courage and leadership by example 
inspired fierce loyalty from all the soldiers who worked for him.

Following his retirement from the U.S. Army in 1996, General Downing 
had repeatedly answered the call of public service. After the terrorist 
attack on the U.S. base at Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia, he was 
appointed by President Clinton to assess the attack and to make 
recommendations on how to protect Americans and U.S. facilities 
worldwide from future attacks.

From 1999-2000, General Downing was a member of the congressionally 
mandated National Commission on Terrorism charged with examining the 
terrorist threat to the U.S., evaluating America's laws, policies, and 
practices for preventing and punishing terrorism directed at U.S. 
citizens, and recommending corrective actions.

In the wake of 9/11, General Downing served for almost a year in the 
White House as national director and deputy national security advisor 
for combating terrorism. As the President's principal adviser on 
matters related to combating terrorism, he was responsible for 
coordinating the military, diplomatic, intelligence, law enforcement, 
information, and financial operations of our war on terror, and for 
developing and executing a strategy that integrated all elements of 
national power.

Following his assignment at the White House, General Downing returned 
to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point when he assumed the position 
of ''Distinguished Chair'' of the Combating Terrorism Center, CTC. 
Under his leadership, the center sought to better understand foreign 
and domestic terrorism threats, to educate future leaders, and to 
provide political analysis and advice to counter future terrorist 
activities.

In addition to his duties at the CTC, General Downing was a visiting 
faculty member at the University of Michigan Business School conducting 
seminars on leadership and transformation management and was military 
and terrorism analyst for NBC News.

General Downing's career has epitomized the phrase ''lifetime of 
service to the Nation'' and exemplified ideals inherent in duty, honor, 
and country. He was a true warrior who always spoke the truth, insisted 
on complete honesty from all he worked with, and was the epitome of 
honorable behavior. As a combat leader, educator, global strategist, 
and national security expert, General Downing's contributions to our 
national defense and security are immeasurable.

Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife Kathryn, his daughters 
Laura and Elizabeth, and the entire Downing family in this time of 
sorrow. He will be missed dearly by his many friends, colleagues, and 
an extremely grateful Nation.
