---
---

# IRAQI REFUGEES RESETTLE IN VERMONT
## `0074dfb74085ad77bcf747ad08271ef1`
`Mr. LEAHY — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, at a time when we are all concerned with 
the fate of Iraqi refugees and the need to help as many of them as 
possible resettle in safe havens, I ask unanimous consent that a March 
24, 2008, article in the Brattleboro Reformer entitled ''Difficult 
Choices: Son's Birth Deepens Couple's Concern Over Future,'' be printed 
in the Record.

This article illustrates what Vermonters are doing to help two Iraqi 
refugees, Revan Hedo and Aseel Pola, who recently gave birth to 
Brattleboro, Vermont's first Iraqi-American citizen, Matthew. As 
Vermonters and other Americans open their hearts, their homes, and 
their wallets to try to alleviate the suffering of Iraqis who have been 
forced to flee their homeland to escape the violence, it is an 
important reminder that no matter how one may feel about this war, 
there is a humanitarian dimension that requires everyone's attention. I 
am proud that Vermonters are doing their part.

We all hope that some day Iraq will be safe enough for those who want 
to return home to do so. But there are some 2 million Iraqi refugees 
stranded in Jordan, Syria, and other countries, and millions more 
displaced inside Iraq. Only a tiny fraction of those who need and 
deserve our help have received U.S. visas. This is unconscionable. I 
urge the White House to expedite the processing for resettlement of 
Iraqis whose lives are threatened because they had the courage to serve 
as translators, drivers, and provide other services to the United 
States. These people risked their lives for us, and they have every 
reason to expect that we will not abandon them.

I ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the Record.