---
---

# None
## `008b49476c0eb91d9e1a2f301a2e9b0b`
`Mr. CARPER — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I feel fortunate that Senator Levin was 
unable to be here yesterday to present the bill from the committee he 
chairs. As the Presiding Officer a few minutes ago, and now listening 
for 5 minutes or so, I have become better acquainted with some of the 
details of a very large and complex piece of legislation. I want to 
start off by saying a special thanks to him and his staff, to Senator 
McCain and Senator Warner and their staffs, and other members of the 
committee. They have crafted a very difficult bill.

As one who likes to work across the aisle, I applaud them for the way 
they have done that, bringing near unanimity from your committee in 
support of this legislation. I especially salute the Senator from 
Michigan and his team for the work they have done in providing for a 
chief management officer within the Department of Defense--God knows we 
need that--along with many other aspects of the bill.

I want to take a moment to talk about the amendment Senator Webb is 
offering and has laid down. I know there are folks who have concerns 
within the Senate and outside of the Senate about this legislation. I 
want to speak in support of his proposal. You may recall he is calling 
for us to try to ensure that there is some downtime for active-duty 
personnel serving in Iraq and Afghanistan--that once they have served 
in those theaters, they be able to come home, train, rest up, 
reacquaint with their families, and to prepare to go back, if 
necessary. He is saying if you are on active duty for 6 months abroad, 
then they could come home for 6 months. If it is 12 months, there would 
be a 12-month respite. They would be training and working on readiness 
and trying to reunite themselves with their families. There is plenty 
to do during the time they are not deployed.

Also, he would say if they happen to be reservists or National Guard, 
they should have the opportunity for every year spent abroad to have 3 
years downtime. The obvious question that came to mind for me is: What 
if we get into a jam somewhere in another part of the world and we need 
somebody who has been promised that 6 months back home, or 2, 3 years 
back home, and we need them to come back and serve on active duty? What 
if a member of the Guard or Reserves or active duty wanted to serve 
sooner again in Afghanistan or Iraq, would they be able to? Those are 
good questions. It was discussed over lunch with Senator Webb. I was 
pleased with his response. Regarding the question about the guardsmen, 
reservists, and active-duty personnel who want to come back and serve 
in the theaters again prior to the end of their period of respite, 
their time at home, they could go back if they express that they want 
to serve. That request will be honored.

Secondly, if we get into a jam as a country in another part of the 
world and we need a unit to go there, whether you are Army, Navy, Air 
Force, or Marine, there is a Presidential waiver included in the Webb 
amendment that says the President can waive the language in the bill, 
in the amendment, and direct those forces to serve back in the theater 
where they are needed. I think those are positive and important aspects 
of the Webb amendment. We ought to keep them in mind.

Prior to coming to serve in the Senate, I was privileged to be 
Governor of my State for 8 years. As Governor of Delaware--or of any 
State, whether it is Pennsylvania, Michigan, or Delaware--you serve as 
commander in chief of your National Guard.

We had Army Guard and Air Guard who served, and I was honored to be, 
for those 8 years, their commander in chief. I felt a great affection, 
a great affinity for them, an allegiance to them and to their families.

When I was in Iraq 3 or 4 weeks ago, I had the opportunity to meet 
with members of our 198th Signal Battalion of the Delaware National 
Guard. On the morning I came back from having been in Iraq, I flew into 
Dulles and hotfooted it up to a place called Delaware City in time to 
send off the 153rd unit of the Delaware National Guard, a military 
police unit, who were going to Fort Dix and then on to Iraq. It is a 
unit we actually created when I was Governor, and I feel a special spot 
for them in my heart. I wanted to be there when they were sent abroad, 
sent to Fort Dix and then on to Iraq.

Having talked with a number of them, having been with them and their 
families literally weeks ago as they prepared to depart, I have a 
special sense from being overseas in Baghdad with folks from the 198th 
Signal Battalion for what their concerns are with respect to an 
extended deployment.

These are people who did not sign up for one, two, three deployments 
in the war zone. Before I served in the House of Representatives, I was 
a naval flight officer. I served during the Vietnam war. I wasn't a 
hero such as Jim Webb, and I wasn't a hero such as John McCain and some 
others with whom we serve--Danny Inouye. My job in the Vietnam war in 
P-3 airplanes was to hunt for Red October, track Soviet nuclear 
submarines. We flew missions off the coast of Vietnam as well.

Interestingly enough, we had other Reserve squadrons come out and fly 
missions with us during the Vietnam war. Almost without exception, we 
never gave them difficult jobs to do. Almost without exception, they 
were not given challenging jobs to do because we didn't want them to 
mess it


up. We would basically take the harder jobs for ourselves. We were not 
confident in their ability to take on the tougher missions with which 
we were burdened, were subscribed to carry out.

That has changed today. Go over to Iraq or Afghanistan where some of 
us have been recently. Our Guard and Reserve units are doing the 
toughest work, the most dangerous work, the most demanding work of any 
Active-Duty Force. They are in harm's way. They are getting shot at, in 
some cases getting wounded, in other cases dying. They leave behind, 
particularly those on active duty, Active-Duty Guard and Reserve, not 
just families in many cases--spouses, children, in some cases dependent 
parents--in many cases they have businesses they own and run 
themselves. It is one thing to be away from an employer who would like 
to have you there, who needs you there and to be away for a month, 2, 
or 3 months on active duty. But try leaving your business that you may 
have started, built, and it depends on you being there, and go away for 
15 months, come back for a little while to the States to try to get it 
started again and have to go away again for 15 months.

After 5 years active duty, I served another 18 years as a Reserve 
naval flight officer. I stayed current on my airplane. I flew with a 
squadron out of the naval air station at Willow Grove. If members of my 
unit--and they were great guys, they were all guys, and they loved the 
Navy, they loved the service, they loved our mission--if you had taken 
most of us and said: We are putting you on active duty for 15 months, 
let you come home a little while and put you back for another 15 months 
on the other side of the world, I am not sure how many would sign up 
again, reup, renew our commitment. I guess a lot of people said: No, 
thank you; been there, done that. I served my Nation on active duty and 
in the Reserve, and we wouldn't have taken on that obligation, at least 
not with great enthusiasm. Some would have; I suspect others would not.

What Senator Webb is trying to do is to say: Look, if you have gone 
over there, if you are on active duty, if you serve in the Army, Navy, 
Air Force, Marines in the theater for 6 months, we are going to make 
sure you have a chance to catch your breath, to come back, hopefully, 
with your unit to retrain here, have downtime to reconnect with your 
family, to begin to put your personal life together a little bit before 
we put you back over there in harm's way. To the extent you happen to 
be a reservist or a member of the National Guard and you have other 
commitments, you are not on active duty, have your own job, business, 
family with children, we are going to give you a chance to make sure 
you can get that business going again, stand it up, strengthen it, 
reacquaint yourself with your family, make sure your kids and spouse 
are doing all right, maybe your parents, before we put you back in 
harm's way again.

I think that makes a whole lot of sense. It is humane, in terms of 
actually being able to keep people on active duty, Reserve status, and 
Guard status. I think it will increase our ability to recruit and 
retain people, when their term of enlistment expires, to reup. It will 
increase the likelihood they will stick with us.

The other point I wish to make, for those who are not aware of the 
waiver authority that is granted in this amendment, we say to a 
President: You can waive these requirements for Active-Duty personnel 
or for Guard personnel. You can waive them. If we find ourselves in a 
bind in another part of the world and we need those forces, those 
assets to be on active duty again, the President can waive those 
requirements.

Also, if I or any of us happen to be on active duty or in the 
Reserves and we have done our time and have a chance to come back and 
we want to go back, we feel an obligation to go back--and God bless 
them, some of our troops today are serving second and third tours over 
there--they would have the opportunity to do that, not be barred from 
doing that. If they chose to take that course, they could.

For those reasons and for others I mentioned today, I believe Senator 
Webb's amendment should be supported. It deserves to be enacted. It is 
one of those deals where the more I learned about it, the more 
comfortable I have become with it. As a number of my colleagues who 
actually served active duty, served in the Reserves and had the 
privilege of leading a State's National Guard, this is one I thought 
about. This wasn't a knee-jerk reaction, yep, this is the way to do it. 
I thought it through and put on my hats of earlier roles I played 
outside the Senate, outside the Congress.

I think the Webb amendment is the right way to go. My hope is, when 
the votes are cast, it will be adopted and added to this legislation.

I yield the floor.