# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `008ca7d82c37693e811f4b416df03b34`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. We are trying to slingshot the firefighters and 
first responders in for a win. We are trying to give those protecting 
our homeland on the front line, we are trying to give them what they 
need.

There is an old saying that the field mouse is fast, but the owl can 
see at night. I think it is very, very important that everyone 
understands that even though procedural, and it may be funny in the 
Republican conference, oh, we showed them, remember the Congressional 
Record reflects what one says and what one does.

If you want to take the time, and I want to say in the 30-Something 
Working Group we want to be correct. We found eight motions to rise 
last night. As we talk about this, when I go back home I tell my 
constituents, we are doing everything possible to end this war in Iraq. 
The last thing that we want to do is not give our service men and women 
what they need while we get through this partisan impasse.

Secondly, it is going to take a bipartisan fix to deal with Iraq. 
Democrats cannot do it alone because we don't have the votes. We have 
put benchmarks and redeployment of combat troops and moving our troops 
out to the peripheral, giving more responsibility to the Iraqi 
government, defunding some of the things that we said we would fund to 
the Iraqi government based on the fact that we don't want to reward 
lack of work or bad behavior or lack of accountability.

And I think as we start all of these different agencies that are 
looking into these issues, as they start to release the reports and as 
we start to look at them, we look at the lack of funding and the lack 
of accountability that has taken place in Iraq. As we look at this, I 
came to the floor to share with my Republican colleagues and be on the 
record so that Americans will know that you all of us have a choice. 
Over 70-plus percent of Americans, and I am not going to an exact 
number, but 70-plus percent of Americans would like to see us out of 
Iraq.

Democrats, Republicans, people that vote for the first time, 
Independents, are waiting for the kind of leadership that should happen 
and needs to happen, but it has to happen in a bipartisan spirit. I 
didn't see any Democrats saying we will not participate in overriding 
the President's veto. I want to also say that the President wouldn't 
even have the opportunity to take out his veto pen if it wasn't for a 
Democratic Congress bringing that issue to the floor and voting in the 
affirmative to make it happen. It would not have happened. I share that 
with my constituents and Members of Congress.

I think it is important when we look at the issue, 218 gets us to 
where we need to be in terms of votes. But we need more Members to tell 
the President, we will not stand for the status quo because American 
lives are at stake. We know that many members of the Bush 
administration are well intended. I don't think that they are saying we 
are going to continue to carry out bad ideas that bring about bad 
results. I don't think that is premeditated thought. But those of us 
who are paying attention, reading and listening, understand that what 
we are doing now is not the answer.

I can commend many of the Members for voting or against the spirit of 
benchmarks and voting for accountability. I commend that. But July 15, 
September 15, it is going to be an opportunity for folks to be able to 
hear information and to be able to bring that information to the House 
of Representatives and for us to take a vote and for us to take a vote 
in the affirmative.

Sp those who went to the White House and said, we will stand against 
our very own colleagues in Congress if you try to override the 
President, to think about it. Think about it if you are going to go 
down there again. Think about appropriation bills where America is in 
need of domestic attention. The will of a majority here in this House 
is concerned about education, concerned about health care, concerned 
about the lack of resources our veterans have. We are concerned about 
our transportation and infrastructure. We are concerned about moving in 
the direction of creating our own energy, investing in the Midwest 
versus the Middle East and concerned about homeland security.

Do you want to continue to stand with the President against the will 
of the majority of the Congress when the American people are on the 
side of the U.S. Congress as it relates to Iraq? How many times do you 
want to walk through the gates of the White House and stand with the 
President on this very issue?

So I want to, I implore my colleagues, my Republican colleagues, I am 
not saying, stand with Democrats; I am saying, stand with your 
constituents. Stand with the American people. Stand with what is making 
sense right now, and that is making sure that we get our troops out of 
the middle of a civil war.