---
---

# FARM, NUTRITION, AND BIOENERGY ACT OF 2007
## `008fe9414cec6c7095f347c3dfe9af97`
`Mr. REID — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I have served in the House of 
Representatives. It was a wonderful opportunity for me to understand 
the Congress. The House is a great institution but much different from 
the Senate. In the House, if you are in the majority, you can pretty 
much do as you want to do. That isn't the way we do it over here.

As I indicated a few minutes ago, the first amendment I offered, I 
offered on behalf of Senators Dorgan and Grassley. If someone wants to 
offer another amendment, I don't control that. Any one Senator who 
wants to offer another amendment, let's take a look at it. I don't 
control that. It takes consent from both sides, or the pending 
amendment must be set aside and another offered. I am not controlling 
that.

That certainly is not like the Rules Committee. The Rules Committee 
in the House sets what amendments can be offered--usually not very 
many--and how much debate time they can do on that amendment. That 
isn't anything like we are doing. What I am saying is, we have this big 
bill, and a number of people have said it can be improved upon. I am 
willing to work with the Democrats and Republicans to try to improve 
it, but it will not be improved by nonrelevant amendments.

I have mentioned some of the suspects that are lurking out there: 
provisions dealing with repealing the estate tax and getting us out of 
Iraq immediately. I mean, there are all kinds of suspects there. I am 
saying, if people want to change this bill, let's try to change it. I 
am not standing in the way of doing that, Mr. President.