# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `00a7ea1c5d99e034b5a6387f577d83a0`
`Mr. JONES â€” 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. JONES. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from Massachusetts.

I respect everyone's position and everyone's right, but I would like 
to say that To Die For a Mystique is an article written by Andrew 
Bacevich, who I quoted just a few minutes ago, subtitled The Lessons 
Our Leaders Didn't Learn From the Vietnam War. Here we are, extending 
an 8-year commitment of our troops in Afghanistan. What's going to 
happen 3 or 4 years from now if we're in the same situation? And then 
we're talking about a 12-, 14-16-year commitment.

Look at what the Russians did. They went there and spent 10 years and 
billions of dollars, and thousands of Russians were killed. Look at 
Alexander the Great. He tried to conquer Afghanistan. He failed. Look 
at what the British did, and they couldn't make it. We're not talking 
about a pull-out. We're just saying, have an end point to your war 
strategy that the American people will understand and really, more 
important than the American people, our military. They're tired. 
They're worn out. They will keep going. They go back five, six, seven, 
eight times. But ask a military family down at Camp LeJeune, You want 
to send your husband or wife back for the sixth time to Afghanistan? 
We're 8 years behind the fight because we never should have gone into 
Iraq. Let's not make the same mistake they made during the Vietnam era.

Thank you, Mr. McGovern, for introducing this amendment. On behalf of 
our country and our troops, thank you very much.