# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `00cd4d1ee8e95ad64399bffe50bc40fd`
`Mr. CRAIG — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. CRAIG. I thank the Senator for yielding.

I come to the floor to oppose the tax that has been proposed and is 
now before us brought by the Finance Committee.

It is very easy politically to stick it to the big boys, and that is 
the political game which is being played out on the floor of the Senate 
as we speak. Stick it to the big boys. OK, we are going to stick it to 
the big boys, $32.1 billion worth of taxes. What will it do for us? 
Will it change the price at the gas pump today? No. In fact, we have 
just heard the Senator from New Mexico say it could possibly raise the 
price of gas in the long term. Hasn't this Senate heard the plea of the 
American consumer over the last 6 months about $3 gas? Don't we get it 
today or do we just want to play petrol politics? That is what the 
Finance Committee has done; they have played petrol politics. They are 
sticking it to the big boys, and they are going to put it in the green 
machine. The green machine may yield some energy in the future, but it 
sure isn't going to change the price at the gas pump tomorrow or the 
next day or next week or next year. If they argue in disagreement with 
me, my answer is simple: Prove it. Prove that you will change the price 
at the pump. Or will the big boys simply try to pass it through to the 
consumer? We will find out, won't we, if this bill passes. That is why 
I am going to have to oppose cloture on the Baucus provision of taxes, 
the petrol politics of this issue.

Let me show you the petrol politics of the real issue. Here is where 
the reserves in the world exist today. Here are the big boys of 
America--Exxon,


Chevron, Marathon. Do we really think if we stick it to these three and 
more we will change the world? No. The world today from the standpoint 
of energy is controlled over here on the left-hand side of the chart. 
It is controlled by Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, and so on down the line. 
They control the known reserves. They control the world's oil supply. 
They are the big boys. We are not sticking it to them. In fact, we are 
handing them a golden leaf. We are saying: You control the world oil 
supply, and we are dependent upon you for 60 percent of our supply. But 
we are going to penalize our producers because of the petrol politics 
of this issue.

There is another petrol game being played out. Petrol politics is 
being played out on the floor of the Senate, but petrol nationalism is 
being played out by these companies and countries of known reserve. 
Every one of these producers controls their supply; their nation's 
government and their nation's government's companies control the supply 
of oil. They can turn the valve on or off. Every time they do, the 
American consumer ultimately pays more. That is called petrol 
nationalism. I believe when we talk about the war of energy today, that 
is what we are involved in. We are involved in a war on who can produce 
energy and can we become energy secure so that we don't have to be 
dependent upon Saudi Arabia and Iraq and Iran.

We know what is happening in that area of the world today, the 
phenomenal instability. Not only do these nations play petrol 
nationalism, they also play with something else: They have the weapon 
of mass disruption. Let me repeat that. These nations hold the weapon 
of mass disruption. You change the price at the pump a couple of 
dollars because you turn the valve off in these countries, and you hit 
this economy like a freight train.

What are we going to do today? We are going to tax it a little more. 
That is all this Congress really knows how to do, is tax. They don't 
know how to produce. We don't produce. We get out of the way of 
production. We encourage production, but this bill will not produce one 
barrel of oil. ExxonMobil will produce a barrel of oil. Chevron will. 
Marathon will. The rest of these countries will. But we don't. We are 
now stepping in the way of that production. We are now penalizing that 
production.

The senior Senator from New Mexico talked about where the greatest 
reserves of America lie today--offshore. Yet we are saying: If you want 
to play out there, if you want to go out, find it, drill, we are going 
to tax you. We are going to penalize you instead of encourage you and 
incentivize you to discover, to bring it to the wellhead and to bring 
it to America's shores and to refine it for the American consumer.

Anybody in a reasonable way who doesn't want to play the political 
game being played out on the floor as we speak--petrol politics--needs 
to vote no on cloture.

If the American consumer thinks these companies are going to pay the 
$32.1 billion in taxes, they have it wrong. They are going to pay it at 
the pump. The Baucus bill pumps tax dollars out of the back pocket of 
the American consumer. It does not allow oil to be pumped out of the 
ground. It does not allow us to hold a stronger political position in 
the world of petrol nationalism. That is the debate we are going 
through right now. It is about windmills. It is about cellulosic. It is 
about all the things I like. But it really isn't. It is antiproduction. 
It is anticonsumer. It is anti-American to deny our Nation's economy 
access to the world energy supply. That is what we are doing. Let's 
allow Saudi Arabia and Iraq and Iran to grab us by the gas nozzle and 
jerk us around every time they choose. This tax package suggests that 
could start again tomorrow because we are not going to get ourselves 
back into the business of production.

I yield the floor and retain the remainder of my time.