---
---

# None
## `00dc59b66831d32e106be4d7ca7ea1fe`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. I regret that I'm going to have to oppose this bill. 
And let's look at the numbers: $161.8 billion for the war it keeps 
going, a war that we all know now was based on untruths. It keeps going 
a war that has cost the lives of over 4,000 of our brave men and women, 
tens of thousands of injuries to our troops and over 1 million innocent 
Iraqis killed as a result of the war. The costs of the war will run to 
$3 trillion. And here instead of keeping a commitment that we made back 
in 2006 to end the war, we're continuing it into the term of the next 
President, and $161.8 billion of this bill will go for the war.

That's actually, of the total bill, 86 percent is going to go for the 
war, $24.7 billion in domestic spending. How much of this is going for 
unemployment? Well, $12.5 billion or about half of it over a period of 
2 years. How much is going to the veterans? Less than $1 billion over 2 
years. So we're using the veterans here and unemployed persons to put 
forth a war bill that is going to cost $161.8 billion.

We have to establish what our priorities should be in this country. 
Yes. Getting people back to work should be a priority. Imagine if we 
put $100 billion into that. Yes. Giving veterans better benefits ought 
to be a priority. Imagine if we put $100 billion into that. But no. 
We're putting $161 billion into a war that we know is based on 
untruths.

It's time that Congress take back its real authority here. And its 
real authority under article 1, section 8 is to declare war. This 
administration led us into a war based on lies. It is time for us to 
regain our ability to create an effective checks and balances, to 
reclaim our position as a coequal branch of government. You do not do 
that by continuing to fund this war. You do it by funding education, 
health care and job creation. That's what the people in Cleveland, 
Ohio, want. That is what people want all over this country. I'm voting 
against this.











Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
