---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `00e4e6e7e4f57b637aa2b2f51eca380a`
`Ms. STABENOW — 21 May 2008`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about two items 
that are in the supplemental that has come from the House of 
Representatives. I find it difficult to speak about either one, but 
particularly the first one, without turning and looking behind me to 
see the great champion of the Senate, Senator Ted Kennedy, leading this 
debate and discussion.

The first item I want to talk about is how we help middle-class 
families, working families who have lost their jobs, to be able to keep 
their home, their dignity, and put food on the table while they look 
for that next job.

No one has been a greater champion--no one--in this body or anywhere 
in the country for working men and women, for folks who are working 
hard every day to meet the American dream, than our own Senator Ted 
Kennedy.

So as I speak today, I want to send my wishes, as my colleagues 
have--all of my colleagues from both sides of the aisle and every part 
of this building and this city--to say to Ted that we miss you and we 
need you back and we are sending our love and our prayers to you and 
Vicki and the entire family because we need you. While we are very 
saddened about the news, we know--as you have championed and had such 
great courage in fighting for those who have needed a voice, who have 
needed a champion in the Senate--we know you will fight with the same 
vigor, and we will be right there with you to do everything we can to 
make sure you are back leading us, leading the charge.

I have stood on this floor many times with the great leader, the 
great Senator from Massachusetts, to talk about what is happening to 
families all across America. I represent a State with the highest 
unemployment rate in the country. Those in Michigan who are seeing 
their unemployment benefits expire, who are valiantly looking for work 
every day, have been looking to us to help them extend that insurance 
benefit until they can find a job.

We know there are 7.7 million people looking for work right now and 
competing for about 4 million jobs. So I am proud of the fact that our 
caucus, the Democratic caucus, has placed creating jobs at the top of 
the list of the budget resolution we will be discussing and voting on 
this week.

But in the meantime we have to do everything we can to support those 
families. In the supplemental that has come over from the House, I am 
very pleased they have included a greatly needed extension of 
unemployment insurance benefits because the reality is we have lost, 
since January, 260,000 good-paying American jobs, 260,000 middle-class 
jobs--the jobs that pay the mortgage, put food on the table, send the 
kids to college, buy clothing, pay for gas--which continues to grow 
outrageously higher every day.

Part of our responsibility is to make sure those families receive the 
insurance benefits they need while they pick up their lives, move in a 
new direction, find work, so they can continue to have the American 
dream.

Some of those families have members who are in Iraq or Afghanistan or 
around the world serving us right now. Unfortunately, we have too many 
families where one person--while we are grateful--is serving us in our 
armed services and the other breadwinner in the family has, in fact, 
lost their job. So there is a direct relationship between what we are 
doing to support the unemployed to be able to continue to look for work 
and to be able to care for their families in the meantime and what we 
are doing on this supplemental.


Mr. President, there is another incredibly important piece of 
supporting our troops that is in this legislation coming over from the 
House of Representatives. Again, I hear the voice of Senator Kennedy 
championing this as well in terms of making sure we are doing 
everything possible for our troops, both when they are in harm's


way and when they are coming home, putting on a veterans cap and 
continuing to live their lives in America.

I am very proud to have cosponsored the 21st century GI bill. Senator 
Webb has been our champion. This is bipartisan legislation. Today's 
veterans deserve the same opportunities and thanks that have been given 
to earlier generations.

This bipartisan bill has overwhelming support in both the Senate and 
in the House. Veterans service organizations and millions of veterans 
and Active servicemembers have raised their voices in support of this 
legislation.

I don't understand how anyone could fully support our troops by fully 
funding the needs of our troops and then oppose the GI bill. Full 
funding for our troops really does include the GI bill. That is what 
this is all about: making sure we are keeping our promises. The men and 
women who sign up, who are overseas now, who are in harm's way, who 
have lost limbs, who come home with post-traumatic stress syndrome, 
those who are willing to put their lives on the line for us expect us 
to keep our promises.

I am proud of the fact that our Senate Democratic majority made fully 
funding veterans health care a top priority when we came into the 
majority last year. We kept that promise. This is the first year since 
this war started that we have met the numbers the veterans 
organizations say are needed to be able to provide health care. This is 
the second piece we are committed to achieving and making sure we have 
a 21st century GI bill fit for the brave women and men who are serving 
us today.

Last week, as chair of our Steering and Outreach Committee, I was 
able to join 23 other members of our caucus, all of our leadership on 
the majority side, and we met with 21 members from veterans service 
organizations who were unanimous in supporting not only the GI bill 
that is included here, that has come from the House, that we so 
strongly support, but in saying this should not be a partisan issue, 
this should not be a political issue, this is the right thing to do. It 
is the right thing to do. It needs to be done for the right reasons. We 
owe it to our veterans to pass this. It is a critical part of what is 
in front of us. It is essential we make sure that when we leave here, 
we can hold our heads high and say we have provided full funding for 
our troops by funding the GI bill and including it in this legislation.

This bill will pay for qualified veterans to attend any public 
university in the Nation. If a veteran chooses to attend a private 
school, the bill would also allow that to happen. It would pay tuition 
up to the amount of the most expensive public school in the State, so 
every choice would be available for our veterans. Under the bill, 
private contributions would be matched by the Federal Government. There 
would be sufficient funding for desperately needed books. The costs go 
up every year. I can attest to that, having put two children through 
college and seen the incredible expense for books alone, as well as 
living expenses. Those things would be covered as well. We need to do 
this because when our veterans get a good college education, all of 
society benefits. Their family benefits, the community benefits, the 
country benefits.

Providing a college education for veterans is very important for our 
economy. World War II provided a great example of how the GI bill made 
it possible for our greatest generation to get an education, find good 
jobs, buy a home, contribute to the American economy, and raise their 
families.

I can speak to that directly. My father was in World War II. He was 
in the Navy. He came home as a veteran. Because of the GI bill, he was 
able to get an education, to be a small business owner, to raise a 
family--which I was very proud to be a part of--to send his kids to 
college, and to make sure we had what we needed to be able to live our 
American dream. It was the GI bill after World War II that gave my dad 
a chance. And through him and through that commitment to my father and 
to our family, it gave me a chance to be here today as well.

Today's veterans have served our country with the same honor and the 
same courage as those in World War II. They deserve the same benefits. 
They deserve the same opportunities, the same chance to shape their 
futures, the future of their communities, and the future of the 
American economy.

I also support this bill because it treats our Active-Duty Guard and 
Reserve Forces the same way through their wartime service. This is 
especially important now, as we know, as the Guard and Reserve take on 
a greater and greater share of the combat tours in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. It is no less important that Guard and Reserve members 
often return home to communities that don't have the same resources as 
the Active-Duty servicemembers have on base. So making sure our Guard 
and Reserve can attend college, can get an education, the skills they 
need to be successful, will help ease their transition into civilian 
life.

I stand with those who are supporting our brave men and women in the 
armed services and those who have served in the global war on terror. 
This bill is long overdue and should be enacted right now. That is what 
21 veterans service organizations have said to us, and millions of 
veterans across the country. We have a duty to give our veterans what 
they deserve. They have offered the greatest sacrifice and should be 
given a chance for a solid education in these competitive times to 
become successful after their military service is done.

So, like the rest of the supplemental, this is full funding for our 
troops. It is full funding for our troops. We need to make sure they 
have what they need, not just on the battlefield but when they return 
home. We have kept the promise on health care, and our Senate 
Democratic majority is committed to continue to do that every year.

We have also been committed and are very pleased that the House sent 
to us a GI bill that we have been working on with leaders in our 
caucus, including Senator Webb and certainly our leader, Senator Reid, 
and many others, to make sure we keep the rest of the promise. We need 
a modern GI bill that fits what is happening for our veterans around 
the world, to make sure Guard and Reserve are treated with the same 
dignity and have the same opportunities as our Active-Duty personnel.

As we debate this supplemental, I sincerely hope we will not leave 
this Chamber without making sure that full funding for our troops 
includes the passage of this greatly needed GI bill.

Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor, and I suggest the 
absence of a quorum.