# None
## `00e4b32347711ca8c1315a65ca6be94d`
`Mr. BISHOP of Georgia — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to 
a brave sailor, dedicated citizen, and a great American, U.S. Navy 
Senior Chief Petty Officer David Blake McLendon, who gave his life for 
his country.

Senior Chief Petty Officer (SCPO) McLendon was raised in Thomasville, 
Georgia. After graduating from Thomas County Central High School in 
1998, he answered the call to service by enlisting in the U.S. Navy, 
following in the footsteps of his father and grandfather.

He was a successful and dedicated naval non-commissioned officer, 
quickly rising through the ranks. His awards include the Joint Service 
Commendation Medal; Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal; Navy and 
Marine Corps Achievement Medal; Navy Battle ''E'' Ribbon (two awards); 
Navy Good Conduct Medal (three awards); and the Sea Service Deployment 
Ribbon.

In 2009, McLendon was promoted to Senior Chief Petty Officer and 
served as a Navy cryptologic technician. He was also a Navy SEAL. 
During his twelve-year Naval career, he served at Norfolk, Virginia and 
Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, and the Joint Expeditionary Base at Little Creek, 
Virginia.

While deployed to Afghanistan, he was one of nine servicemembers 
tragically killed when their Army Blackhawk helicopter went down in the 
southern Afghanistan province of Zabul on Sept. 21, 2010.

SCPO McLendon's death is a great loss to this country, as he was a 
man of great promise and honor. He was described as a consummate Navy 
professional by his fellow servicemembers, and was known for his 
dedication, quick wit, and engaging sense of humor.

His death is also a great loss to his loving family. He is survived 
by his wife and parents, his brother and sister, his nieces and 
nephews, and his paternal grandmother.

Madam Speaker, U.S. Navy Senior Chief Petty Officer David Blake 
McLendon made the ultimate sacrifice for his country. His time on this 
earth was too short. He was a proud American, a brave sailor, and a 
true family man. In life he was loved and honored, and in death he will 
be remembered by a grateful nation.
