---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `00e8296c84432196aed5a4a39df3c11d`
`Mr. CORKER — 20 May 2009`

---


Mr. CORKER. Madam President, I am pleased to offer this amendment 
with my colleagues, Senator Graham of South Carolina and Senator 
Lieberman. This amendment would basically do two things.

Today, we have before us a supplemental appropriations bill. A large 
amount of the money in this bill is for our military operations and 
other operations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. This amendment is being 
offered without criticism. But, in fact, what we have today is a major 
shift in our policies in Afghanistan and Pakistan. I doubt that there 
is a person in this body who can clearly articulate what our mission is 
in these two countries, to the standpoint of actually laying out 
objectives.

I think many Senators were part of a luncheon we had 2 weeks ago 
where, when the President of Afghanistan was asked what our mission was 
in Afghanistan, he could not articulate in any way that was 
comprehendible what our mission was in that country.

I do not offer those comments again in criticism. I realize there are 
a lot of changes underway. I realize there is going to be a new general 
on the ground; possibly it will take until August for that confirmation 
to take place.

I realize this administration is working with many agencies in trying 
to develop a plan that will be effective in this country. If one were 
to listen to the state of the mission, one would think our mission is 
very similar in Afghanistan to that of Iraq, minus actually having a 
democratically functioning government.

I know all of us have had some concerns about some of the issues 
within Government in both countries and where Government funding 
actually ends up. So this is an amendment, a bipartisan amendment, that 
is being put forth asking the administration to do two things: Asking 
that we, in essence, all understand this policy so that, in fact, we 
have a policy that is equal to the tremendous sacrifice our men and 
women in uniform are putting forth on our behalf and do so daily.

First of all, the amendment would require the President to submit to 
Congress a clear statement of objectives for Afghanistan and Pakistan 
and the benchmarks that will be used to quantify progress toward 
achieving those objectives.

Again, this is not tying their hands. There are no timetables that 
say certain things have to happen by a certain time. This is, in 
essence, asking the administration to lay out to us so we all know and 
can articulate those and, hopefully, even our men and women in the 
field can articulate these, to lay those out in a way by which we can 
understand the benchmarks.

Then, secondly, it asks that they come before us and actually give us 
quarterly updates, after a period of time, toward those objectives and 
how they are actually progressing. I would hope that actually, at some 
point, the managers of the bill might be able to even accept this by 
unanimous consent because I cannot imagine why anybody in this body 
would want to vote the billions and billions of dollars toward these 
efforts that we rightfully are supporting today--do not get me wrong, 
but I cannot imagine not wanting the administration to come back to us 
with these benchmarks and these objectives so we all can measure our 
progress there.

We have been there 8 years. Our men and women in uniform have given 
and given and given; many have lost their lives, many have lost limbs. 
It would seem to me that everyone in this body, regardless of which 
side of the aisle they are on, would want to clearly understand what 
our mission is there and our way of evaluating that.

I yield the floor.