---
---

# None
## `00f0286a222f1df20fcddbecc8516333`
`Mr. DURBIN — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I wish to thank my colleagues, the Senator 
from California and the Senator from Delaware. They are making a 
sincere effort to find a way out of this terrible morass we are in, in 
Iraq. I can recall 5 years ago when we were called on to vote to give 
an authorization for the use of force to President Bush. It was in 
October, before an election a few weeks away, and there were some who 
argued the President would never use that force. There were some who 
argued he would use it immediately. Unfortunately, history has proven 
he used it in a few months. We now find ourselves enmeshed in a war we 
never bargained for.

That authorization for the use of force said it was for the purpose 
of deposing a dictator and destroying weapons of mass destruction that 
threatened the United States. The dictator is gone, the weapons of mass 
destruction never existed. Yet we are still there and 3,800 American 
soldiers have been killed so far, 30,000 injured, and 10,000 grievously 
injured. The numbers rise by the day. At one hundred a month, American 
soldiers die. There is violence on the streets. Attempts to have 
meetings for cooperation and compromise are cut short by bombs and 
bullets. It is a situation which we never bargained for, and this 
President has no concept of how to extricate America from that morass.

I call to the attention of the Senate, though, not the Biden-
Brownback amendment, which I will speak to at a later time but, rather, 
an amendment offered by Senators Lieberman and Kyl. It is an amendment 
which relates to a country next to Iraq--Iran. Iran is a dangerous 
country. Yesterday, there was a lot of controversy about whether its 
President should be allowed to speak at a major university in the 
United States. Many argued he should not have. Whatever your opinion on 
whether he should have been allowed to speak, when it was all said and 
done, when he had finished his speaking, there was no doubt in my mind 
that it was pretty clear how radical and unreliable he is. Some of the 
things he said were preposterous, outrageous, and didn't reflect the 
truth as we know it, either in the United States, the world, or in his 
country of Iran. I can't imagine that President Ahmadi-Nejad won any 
converts yesterday, but he is the head of a dangerous nation, a nation 
which in many respects is moving in directions which the United States 
has to view very warily.

I have joined with Senator Gordon Smith in a bipartisan resolution 
applying economic pressure and diplomacy to change the Iranian policies 
that might lead to nuclear armaments. I believe that is our first order 
of business and a high priority for the United States. That is why I 
joined him in that resolution. In fact, in the past, I voted for 
resolutions by Senator Lieberman and others acknowledging the potential 
threat of Iran. I think we should be forewarned that this is a 
dangerous country, until they change their ways and perhaps change 
their leadership.

I wish to commend to every Senator before the vote on the Lieberman-
Kyl amendment that they take a few moments and read it. There is a 
paragraph in this amendment which I find troubling, if not frightening. 
I wish to read it into the Record. I will concede this is a sense-of-
the-Senate amendment and doesn't have the force of law, but I want my 
colleagues to understand what they are voting for if they decide that a 
vote for the Lieberman-Kyl amendment is a vote against Iran. I will 
read it as follows:




 It is the sense of the Senate--


And now I read from paragraph 4 in the Lieberman-Kyl amendment, and I 
quote verbatim from the latest version I have--



 to support the prudent and calibrated use of all instruments 


 of United States national power in Iraq, including 


 diplomatic, economic, intelligence, and military instruments, 


 in support of the policy described in paragraph (3) with 


 respect to the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran and 


 its proxies.


I see the Senator from Connecticut is on the floor. If this language 
has been deleted or changed, I hope he will bring to it my attention, 
because as written and as read, the language that I have been given is 
troubling. Conceding this is a sense-of-the-Senate amendment, we are, 
in fact, saying we support the use of military instruments in Iran. 
What does that mean? Does that mean we are supporting the invasion of 
Iran, that we are supporting military tactics against Iran? Shouldn't 
we be extra careful in the language of these amendments when we find 
that the authorization of force for Iraq has dragged us into a war now 
in its fifth year, a war longer than World War II, with bloody and 
deadly consequences for the United States and innocent Iraqis?

I can't vote for this language as read. If it has been changed or 
will be changed, I am ready to talk, because I certainly have no 
defense of Iran and its intrigue, its activities, and its plans that we 
understand to be the development of nuclear weapons.

As I have said, I have joined with Senator Smith encouraging economic 
and diplomatic sanctions against Iran, but this amendment goes beyond 
that. I repeat:




 (4) to support the prudent and calibrated use of all 


 instruments of United States national power in Iraq, 


 including diplomatic, economic, intelligence, and military 


 instruments, in support of the policy described in paragraph 


 (3) with respect to the Government of the Islamic Republic of 


 Iran and its proxies.


I think this is entirely too expansive. It is dangerous language. 
Those who vote for it are going on the Record for the use of military 
power in a way that I don't think they fully comprehend. Again, if this 
is being changed, if it is going to be changed before the vote, then I 
will concede that many items before the Senate are works in progress. 
But as written and as read, I cannot accept this language. I think it 
is a dangerous effort to put us on the record for the use of military 
force in Iran. Even if we are militarily capable of doing that today--
and some question whether we are--the simple fact is there is a process 
to call for congressional approval under our Constitution before we 
declare war on any Nation. This, unfortunately, takes us down that road 
toward that goal in a way that I think is unacceptable, and for that 
reason I will oppose it.

I yield the floor.