---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `00f1d6f3686402442c069bce2d218937`
`Mrs. BOXER — 28 March 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. My colleague is exactly right. All we are saying as 
Democrats to our friends is: Take care of the American people. Take 
care of them. They deserve it.

I am waiting for some photographs of the freeze that occurred in my 
home State. I see they have arrived. I need to share these with my 
friends.

There is a song called ''Strawberry Fields Forever.'' I want my 
colleagues to look at what happened to the strawberry fields in 
California as a result of the freeze. When we look at this, I say to my 
colleague from Washington--I want to get her attention just to look at 
this and to thank her for helping us. This is a strawberry field. It 
looks like an ice rink. The strawberries are destroyed.

I want to show my colleagues our oranges. This is an orange tree. 
This is what has happened because of the frost. This picture is of an 
orange. You can hardly see it beneath the frost. A picture is worth a 
thousand words. I say to the President and my Republican friends: Don't 
turn your backs on these good people who endured these losses. And, by 
the way, in my State, in the most Republican part of my State, what are 
you doing? We need to help people. We need to help the workers. That is 
what is in this bill.

Yes, we provide all the funding for the troops and more. And, yes, 
thanks to the leadership of the Senator from Washington and the 
Senators from Hawaii and the majority leader, we have funds in this 
bill for Walter Reed Army Medical Center. And, yes, we look at what 
happened in Louisiana. We look at what happened with the levees, and we 
tried to help those living in FEMA trailer parks.

Why would this President turn his back on the people of Louisiana 
once again? Once again. We saw the lack of response, and now in this 
bill we are saying help the people, Mr. President. You went down to New 
Orleans. You stood there--I will never forget the speech--and you said: 
We will stand with you. Yet he says he doesn't want help for the people 
of Louisiana in this bill.

My farmers have suffered $1.3 billion in losses. I showed the 
pictures of the freeze. We know about the drought that hit the Midwest. 
So instead of pledging to work together, we find this administration 
threatening to veto this bill.

I say to this President: If you veto this bill, then you come to my 
State and you look into the eyes of these farmers and you look into the 
eyes of these workers and you tell them they didn't have an emergency. 
You tell them they don't qualify for assistance from a country they 
love, to which they are devoted. It isn't right.

And, yes, we added some language to the bill that says: We are not 
going to have an open checkbook forever for Iraq, and we are not going 
to have this continuous stream of wounded and dead coming back. Yes, we 
want to have a timeline that is fair and just.

If the President vetoes that, he is ignoring the will of the people.

I will suspend, Mr. President, withhold my time, not lose the floor, 
and let the Senator from Washington make her request.