---
---

# HONORING LIEUTENANT GENERAL RUSSEL L. HONORE
## `00fe8b8576f218e44ad51b2f4a2fae9c`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 25 February 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H. Res. 944, honoring the service and accomplishments of Lieutenant 
General Russel L. Honore United States Army, for his 37 years of 
service on behalf of the United States. I would like to thank my 
distinguished colleague Congressman David Scott for introducing this 
important legislation, of which I am proud to be an original cosponsor.

Mr. Speaker, Hurricane Katrina was one of the darkest hours of our 
Nation's recent history. Although the courage and generosity 
demonstrated by the American people was nothing short of heroic, the 
response of the federal government, especially FEMA, was nothing short 
of an embarrassment. I never imagined that my neighbors in New Orleans 
would be called and treated like refugees in war ravaged developed 
countries. The response of the Bush Administration was unacceptable.

However, even in the midst of tragedy and mismanagement, many 
Americans throughout this country stepped up to help those affected by 
this disaster. This demonstrated that once again in our darkest hour 
that we united as a nation to help our brothers and sisters who sought 
to recover and rebuild their lives. In particular, a small number of 
extraordinary individuals became true heroes; one of the most 
remarkable was Lieutenant General Russel Honore.

Called by New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin a man who can ''get some stuff 
done,'' Lieutenant General Honore's life is truly an American story. 
Born in Lakeland, Louisiana, General Honore graduated from Southern 
University and A&M College in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. After graduating 
with a baccalaureate degree in vocational agriculture, General Honore 
was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Army. 
General Honore eventually graduated from Troy State University with a 
master's degree in Human Resources and received an honorary doctorate 
in public administration from Southern University and A&M College.

General Honore began his distinguished military career serving in a 
number of infantry command positions for the Army, including overseas 
tours in Germany and as a commanding officer in the Second Infantry 
Division in Korea. He saw action in Iraq and Kuwait during Operation 
Desert Storm. Honore's experience and skill made him a logical 
candidate to serve as vice director for operations for the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff; deputy commanding general and assistant commandant of the 
United States Army Infantry Center and School at Fort Benning, Georgia; 
and assistant division commander, maneuver/support for the First 
Calvary Division at Fort Hood, Texas.

But more than his impressive record of military service, Lt. General 
Russel Honore is perhaps best known for his strong leadership 
attributes. Lieutenant General Honore commanded the First United States 
Army, responsible for the training and deployment of 500,000 National 
Guardsmen and reserve service members. Lieutenant General Honore also 
led the Joint Task Force Katrina, following the hurricane's destruction 
of the Gulf Coast in 2005, where he commanded all active-duty troops 
from all military branches dedicated to the storm recovery operations.

Mr. Speaker, my home district in Houston has been pleased to welcome 
with open arms well over 100,000 survivors fleeing the storm, including 
a reported 21,000 children. I spent countless hours after this immense 
tragedy with the men, women, and children who fell victim to this 
catastrophic storm; I witnessed first hand the terror and despair of 
children separated from their parents, men and women who had lost their 
entire livelihoods, and families who had seen homes full of memories 
and treasures destroyed in flood waters. I represent thousands of the 
Katrina evacuees who continue to reside in Houston, I consider their 
plight and hardship a personal one with which I am intimately familiar, 
and I am proud of my community's response to this tragedy.


In the hours, days, weeks, and months after the Katrina struck the 
gulf coast, the actions of Lt. General Honore and those like him were a 
lifeline for thousands of displaced, frightened, and imperiled 
residents. His bravery was so often the difference between life and 
death, or between hope and despair. Those of us who were on the ground 
in those days and weeks following the storm know just how valuable his 
actions were, just how vital his leadership was, and just how much the 
region needed many more leaders like him.

I would like to commend Lieutenant General Honore for his 37 years of 
service on behalf of the United States. Lieutenant General Honore has 
proven his dedication and commitment to the Army and his leadership in 
post-Katrina recovery effort. I recognize his loyalty as a soldier, 
commander, and leader and for displaying throughout his distinguished 
military service the highest levels of leadership, professional 
competence, integrity, courage. Many of those who survived this storm 
did so only because of the bravery, selflessness, and immense 
leadership of Lt. General Honore and other heroes like him.

Over two years have passed since Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf 
Coast, and we continue to mourn the at least 1,836 innocent victims of 
the storm. We also continue to address the difficult issues raised by 
the storm, including the rebuilding of affordable housing in the area, 
and the restoration of local education systems. As a proud Houstonian, 
a firsthand witness to the devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina, 
and a believer in the power of the American people, as demonstrated by 
Lt. General Honore, I strongly urge my colleagues to remember those who 
perished, honor those who found such bravery within themselves, and to 
continue to work to provide for the still-suffering victims of the 
storm.

In a recent media interview, Lt. General Honore spoke of what he 
hoped his legacy would be. He spoke of an effort to guide civilian 
America, encouraging a ''culture of preparedness'' in the spirit of his 
own cold-war upbringing. He stated that despite government investment 
in disaster response mechanisms, civic response remains weak, stating, 
''I'm sure you and your wife have a plan to meet at Uncle Joe's house, 
but does your plan include asking Mrs. Smith next door if she needs a 
ride?'' This is a vital, and too often overlooked, component of 
disaster planning.

Mr. Speaker, I would again like to voice my support for H.R. 944, and 
finally give back something to a man that has already given so much to 
his country.