# TRIBUTE TO COMMANDER FATORA
## `00ffb41a000b12bb8f6b4a70d993418e`
`Mr. DICKS â€” 23 March 2010`

---


Mr. DICKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to an 
outstanding Naval Officer, Commander Jeffrey Fatora, and to recognize 
his dedicated service to our Nation. It is a great honor for me to 
thank Commander Fatora for his distinguished service in the Submarine 
Force. Commander Fatora has proudly and selflessly served our Nation 
for 23 years, and he will retire from the naval service on July 1 of 
this year.

It was during his last assignment to the Secretary of the Navy's 
Appropriations Matters office that I first came to know Commander 
Fatora. In this capacity, he has proved to be an invaluable link 
between the Navy and me, my staff, and the Appropriations Committee. 
For nearly four years Commander Fatora provided valuable assistance to 
me and to Members of the House Appropriations Committee. He often 
traveled with Members of the Committee--sometimes into combat zones--
and always ensured that the Committee had direct access to Department 
of Defense facilities and combat units worldwide.

On every occasion, Commander Fatora performed his duties in an 
exacting and precise manner. But far more important to me and the 
members of the Appropriations Committee was the effectiveness by which 
he kept us informed of important developments within the Department of 
the Navy, allowing us to make important decisions on resource 
allocation based upon the facts.

Commander Fatora began his submarine service aboard USS Indianapolis 
(SSN 697) in Pearl Harbor, completing two Western Pacific Deployments. 
As a member of the commissioning crew of USS Louisiana (SSBN 743), he 
was the very first officer qualified as Officer of the Deck on the 
ship. But clearly, his most notable service was as the Weapons Officer 
aboard USS Providence (SSN 719), which was the first American warship 
to arrive off the coast of Pakistan following the attacks of September 
11th, 2001. As the leader of the Providence strike team, he ensured 
that 25 Tomahawk Cruise Missiles found their targets in Afghanistan 
during the opening salvos of Operation Enduring Freedom.

Later, as a Staff Officer for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, 
he worked diligently with a multi-national task force to execute the 
anti-terrorist Operation Active Endeavour. Finally, serving as 
Executive Officer aboard USS Pittsburgh (SSN 720), he guided the crew 
through a very challenging Engineered Overhaul at Portsmouth Naval 
Shipyard.

In closing, on behalf of the House of Representatives and especially 
my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee, I want to express my 
thanks and appreciation for the special contribution Commander Fatora 
has made during his naval service. We wish him and his family continued 
success and the traditional naval wish of ''fair winds and following 
seas.''
