# RULES OF THE HOUSE
## `0101b63d8e34e964e6017b9339c6a289`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 4 January 2007`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, on this historic day, the sun is shining 
brightly in Washington outside and today, finally it is shining inside 
this great Capitol building.

Normally, a New Year's resolution is a list you write for yourself. 
But the ethics package that we Democrats are now adopting was written 
by the American people at the ballot box in November. This January 
resolution is possible only because of the November revolution by 
voters who were, quite frankly, revolted by what they saw going on here 
in Washington.

Under Democratic leadership, ''Spring Cleaning'' is getting an early 
start here in January. We ban lobbyists-sponsored junkets and gifts and 
the use of corporate jets from jet-setting lobbyists like the tobacco 
company that even took one Member of Congress on a special flight to 
his criminal arraignment.

In Congress, an earmark too often is a secret means for a Member to 
funnel Federal dollars to special projects. Some are worthwhile, some 
are dubious.

When I talk about earmarks to my rancher friends down in Texas, they 
have a different earmark in mind. It is the mark you put on an ear of 
your cattle to identify them. By their very nature, earmarks are 
public, designed to identify ownership. I think we need some of that 
Texas thinking here in Washington. If earmarks can identify a steer, we 
are now able, through this new package, to know who is ''steering'' 
earmarks of federal tax dollars to some unworthy cause.

Ethics reform, of course, is not an end in and of itself. The goal of 
reform is to improve the substance of the work that we do here. It is 
to ensure that the priorities in Washington are genuinely the 
priorities of hard working families in San Marcos, Bastrop, Kyle, and 
many other communities across our country.

Because fiscal security is national security, we are also working to 
cut the ballooning federal deficit with pay-as-you-go budgeting; 
barring new spending provisions or tax changes that would increase our 
soaring national debt.

Our reforms seek to curb the cost of corruption. It is a cost that 
has been borne in the pocketbooks of our seniors who pay too much for 
drugs because of a drug bill that was designed by the pharmaceutical 
manufacturers, instead of designed to help those who needed help most.

It is the cost of corruption that is reflected in no-bid contracts in 
Iraq and in the aftermath of the Hurricane Katrina debacle. And it is 
reflected in the price that the jobless, the homeless, and the hopeless 
are paying for the corruption within this administration.

Mr. Speaker, accountability, so long lacking from this administration 
and the House leadership begins today.

