# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `01026d62e5b32065ffa2147680f573a7`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 2 August 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank my good friend 
and thank her for her leadership on the Armed Services Committee; and 
to my friends on the other side of the aisle, it is great news that we 
have a new direction in the Armed Services Committee that takes 
seriously the issues of readiness and the quality of life for our 
troops.

Some would ask the question, troops are in battle, why are you 
worrying about the quality of life? Because my friend who cited the 
Constitution failed to recognize Article I, Section 8, that indicates 
that Congress does have the authority to declare war. Embodied in that 
declaration is a responsibility for our troops.

And might I refer my friend to the letter by the Reserve Enlisted 
Association which is thanking Congresswoman Tauscher for acknowledging 
the importance of rest time, rest time between battles. These soldiers 
are battle worn, mentally and physically. The first part of their duty 
they were over there with no equipment, no Humvees that were 
reinforced, no equipment that protected them from those weapons they 
were being shot at by. The Veterans for America emphasizes we are 
compounding the wounds of war.

When I visited Iraq, I would talk to individuals who are carpenters 
and painters. They were given a gun, and they were told to get into 
battle. Readiness is a key.

I just was home in my district, and a mother came to me crying. Her 
son is a naval Reserve officer who's been in the Reserves for some 20 
years or so, 38 years old, is being handed a gun and said go off to 
war. There are disciplines and there are training that we must give to 
these individuals.

And just a few appropriation cycles ago, I offered an amendment 
dealing with the time frame for redeployment. We're seeing soldiers 
being redeployed once, twice, three times, four times with no rest. And 
so we have a balance here for active duty, Reserve, National Guard 
forces, and others.

We are clearly doing the right thing in this bill, and I ask my 
colleagues to support it.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3159, the 
Ensuring Military Readiness Through Stability and Predictability 
Deployment Policy Act of 2007. I would like to thank my colleague Ms. 
Tauscher for introducing this legislation, and the Chairman of the 
Armed Services Committee, Mr. Skelton, for his leadership on this 
Issue.

Mr. Speaker, no issue will define this Congress more than how we 
handle the ongoing conflict in Iraq. In recent weeks and months, this 
Congress has taken definitive action to end what we, and the people of 
the United States, believe to be a conflict without tangible goals and 
targets. The American people made their views clear last November: The 
time has come to end U.S. military involvement in Iraq.

And yet, the Bush Administration has decided to instead increase the 
numbers of American soldiers in Iraq. President Bush's ''New Way 
Forward'' strategy, announced in January, calls for the deployment of 
over 20,000 additional U.S. combat forces, to be used to stabilize 
Baghdad and the Anbar Province. This is coming at a time when, 
according to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal Poll, 59 percent of 
Americans believe we should be reducing the number of troops in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, at the heart of this effort are our brave troops, the 
men and women who courageously risk and too often lose their lives 
thousands of miles from home. The Iraq war has already cost over 3,500 
American lives. More than 25,000 Americans have been injured. Thousands 
of U.S. personnel have lost limbs or suffered debilitating mental and 
physical injuries. Yet as casualties rise, the Bush Administration 
pushes for the escalation of American soldiers into the most hostile 
communities in Iraq. In addition to the enormous expenditure of lives, 
American taxpayers have paid more than $400 billion to sustain this 
misadventure.

When a soldier is deployed away from home for lengthy periods of 
time, his or her entire family suffers. Earlier this week, the United 
States Army released a report that stated that the children of enlisted 
soldiers are 60% more likely to be abused or neglected when a parent is 
deployed to a combat zone. The author of this study commented, ''The 
surprising finding was that the effect of deployment was so consistent. 
Just about any way we could divide the population, we found increased 
rates of child maltreatment during deployment. We looked at pay grade, 
rank, single or multiple deployments, whether the family lives on or 
off post--all showed increases.'' Researchers attributed this to the 
increasing trend of continuous deployment of our soldiers. As Chair of 
the Congressional Children's Caucus, I would like to register my strong 
concern about the impact this war is having on American children and 
families.

This bill, H.R. 3159, contains important provisions to ensure that 
those who are sent to fight in what I have always considered to be an 
ill-advised war have adequate time to rest and recover between 
deployments: time to spend with their families and loved ones, and time 
to recover from the mental and psychological problems that are all too 
common after combat deployment. As we continue to work here in Congress 
to bring this war to a speedy and comprehensive conclusion, I believe 
we must make every effort to provide consideration for those who bear 
the brunt of this Administration's ill-advised preemptive war in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that our service men and women deserve enough 
time to rest and recover at home between combat deployments for 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. This legislation reaffirms the stated 
Department of Defense policy for deployment, which is currently being 
waived for Iraq, calling for a 1:2 deployment ratio for active duty and 
a 1:5 ratio for reserve soldiers. It continues to allow the President 
and the Chiefs of the Military services to waive these requirements, if 
unforeseen circumstances arise.

Four years after our ill-advised invasion, the evidence is clear and 
irrefutable: The invasion of Iraq, while a spectacularly executed 
military operation, was a strategic blunder without parallel in the 
history of American foreign policy. This is what can happen when the 
Congress allows itself to be stampeded into authorizing a president to 
launch a preemptive war of choice. It is time to rethink our strategy 
in Iraq, to encourage and engage in diplomacy, and to sit down with the 
various players in the Middle East and make real strides towards 
securing Iraq, the Iraqi people, and most importantly our most precious 
resource: the troops we love so dearly.

Mr. Speaker, I will continue to strongly oppose this war until we are 
finally able to end this conflict. In the meantime, I believe it is our 
responsibility, here in Congress, to make sure that those we send to 
fight and risk their lives in Iraq receive the very best care and 
services. This includes adequate time to rest and recover between 
deployments.

I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
legislation.