---
---

# CONTINUING EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `0117877e51c02019426ee9b585c79498`
`Mr. DORGAN — 13 April 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, we invoked cloture last evening on a 
motion to proceed to legislation that will extend unemployment benefits 
during what has been the deepest recession since the Great Depression. 
We have had objections from the other side to extending unemployment 
benefits as an emergency, saying these cannot be extended because they 
will cost too much and add to the deficit and this and that.

It is interesting to me that in this country, when our country has 
experienced an economic downturn, we have always dealt on an emergency 
basis with the most vulnerable Americans by extending unemployment 
insurance benefits. Why? For two reasons. No. 1, when you work for a 
living in this country, you actually pay premiums for an unemployment 
insurance plan that then kicks in when you lose your job. This is not 
as if somebody is getting something for nothing. People who are working 
in this country are actually paying into a plan that provides for 
unemployment insurance. And, No. 2, extending unemployment insurance 
during a severe economic downturn is just the right thing to do for the 
most vulnerable Americans.

I find it interesting that the very people who have been standing in 
the way of doing this, saying it is the Federal budget deficits, that 
they are too big--I agree they are too big. But I have not seen any of 
these folks out here when it really matters. This is taking on the most 
vulnerable Americans. They are out here taking on that issue.

How about the big issues? How about fighting a war and not paying for 
one penny of it over a 10-year period? In the 8 years of the previous 
administration, we went to war, and we were told by President George W. 
Bush: You are not going to pay for a penny of this; and if you try to 
pay for it, I will veto the bill. It is all going to be emergency 
spending. The fact is, we should have seen the same folks out here 
complaining about that issue.

Or how about going back 10 or 11 years when legislation was passed 
that built these huge corporate financial pyramids that got engaged in 
all kinds of unbelievable risky speculation and ran the country into 
the economic ditch and caused $15 trillion of American wealth to vanish 
and cause these unbelievable increases in deficits? I did not see them 
out here on that issue either. In fact, many of them voted for the 
legislation that repealed the protections that were put in place after 
the Great Depression and actually allowed to happen what has happened 
in the last 10 years that caused this collapse.

I don't know. It seems to me this last stand on the budget deficit, 
to say let's have the last stand when it comes to the most vulnerable 
Americans, that is our last stand--how about a last stand, for example, 
on some of the affluent Americans? How about a last stand on carried 
interest? I encourage my colleagues who have been out here worried 
about the budget deficit to come out here while I am here and talk 
about changing the carried interest rules.

What does that mean? It sounds like a foreign language to some. It 
means some in this country are earning more income than anybody in 
America and paying the lowest income tax rates. Why is that the case? 
That is what the law allows them to do. We have been trying to change 
the law, but some of my colleagues do not want to change the law. That 
would be increasing taxes.

Let me give an example of increasing taxes. How about increasing 
taxes on a person who made $3.6 billion in a year--which, by the way, 
is about $10 million a day--and pays 15 percent income taxes? How about 
if we say to that person and others like him or her: How about you pay 
the same kind of taxes everybody else in this country pays? That will 
reduce the Federal budget deficit.

I ask my colleagues, do you want to join me to do that? I am all for 
reducing the Federal budget deficit. Tighten our belts, reduce 
spending--I am all for that. But, also, how about asking people to pay 
their fair share of taxes?

I said yesterday, as I said before, that we have some of the biggest 
financial institutions in this country that in the last decade decided 
to buy sewer systems from foreign cities in order to avoid paying U.S. 
taxes. How about let's make sure we close all loopholes, such as that 
loophole, that say: You want all the benefits America has to offer? How 
about paying the taxes and being responsible as an American citizen for 
things that you are required to do?

If we want to reduce the Federal budget deficit let's take some real 
big hunks at doing that by, yes, reducing some spending, and there is 
plenty of waste. I chaired 20 hearings on the biggest waste, fraud, and 
abuse in the history of this country; that is, the contracting in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. I will not go through it in detail today. I am telling 
you, it is the biggest waste in American history in these contracts.

Let's cut some of that spending. Let's raise some taxes on those who 
are not paying their fair share, those who are doing everything they 
can to avoid paying taxes in this country. Let's cut the deficit, but 
let's not come out here and pretend that the last stand is to take on 
the most vulnerable Americans at a time when we should extend 
unemployment insurance. That makes no sense.

Mr. President, if you know much about economics, you understand 
during a steep economic downturn there is substantially less revenue 
coming into the Federal Government. We have lost something like $400 
billion a year in revenue. At exactly the same time when we have a 
steep economic downturn, the economic stabilizers kick in--unemployment 
insurance, food stamps, and other programs for people who have been 
laid off, out of work, in trouble. That is exactly what we do during


an economic downturn. We have less revenue and more spending. That is 
temporary because the minute we come out of this and restore economic 
health, then we do the things necessary to get rid of those budget 
deficits and put the country back on track to a better course.

I don't know, this has been a Byzantine circumstance to see who comes 
to the floor of the Senate and say: You know what. Now we are going to 
make our last stand, and it is going to be when you want to give some 
unemployment insurance to the most vulnerable Americans, those who have 
lost their jobs.

Someplace in this country, all around the country today, about 17 
million people or so woke up jobless. They have lost their jobs. They 
do not have work. They got dressed and went out with some hope in their 
hearts that maybe they could find a job. But tonight will come and they 
will not have found a job. The question they ask is, Am I going to get 
the funding I was told would exist, for which I paid insurance premiums 
for unemployment insurance? Am I going to get that help during this 
period of time? This was not my fault. I was laid off because of a very 
steep economic recession.

The answer should be from this Congress: Yes, you are going to get 
that help. We understand the obligation and the need to do that during 
this economic recession.

My hope is we will get a little cooperation and see if we can do 
that. Again, I am very interested in tackling this Federal budget 
deficit. Let's tackle it in big ways in the areas where substantial 
additional revenue that should come in is now not coming in because 
people are avoiding paying their taxes, some of those who are the 
wealthiest Americans.

Let's also tighten our belt and cut spending in areas I just 
described. Let's not decide the last stand is to take on the most 
vulnerable Americans who woke up this morning jobless and, in some 
cases, hopeless and helpless if they do not have money to buy food, pay 
rent, and buy medicine.

We can do better than that. There is a moral imperative for this 
Congress to at long last do the right thing.

I did not come to the floor to say that, but because that is the 
business of the day, I wanted to, on behalf of Senator Baucus and 
Senator Reid and others, say that we have an obligation, and we are 
trying to work through this issue.

Last night by one vote we were able to invoke cloture with almost no 
help--we got a little help to get cloture invoked. Now we will get on 
with the business of seeing if we can, during a very deep economic 
downturn, extend unemployment insurance as we are required to do and as 
we have an obligation to do.

I hope the answer is yes. That is our responsibility. That is our 
obligation. If there are those who come to the floor later wanting to 
join me in dealing with the issues I just described--spending cuts, 
revenue increases from those who are not paying their fair share, some 
of the biggest financial companies in the country--let's join and do 
that. I am here and very happy to do it.


















 Energy


Mr. President, there are many things on the agenda for this country 
that need doing. We are trying to work through this list. We worked on 
a health care reform bill that I understand was very controversial. The 
fact is, health care is such a significant part of our economy and the 
costs are growing so rapidly that we have to try to address it, and we 
did.

There is another issue, however, that I want to talk about today, and 
that is the issue of energy. We do not think much about energy because 
it becomes kind of second nature to the way we live. We get up in the 
morning and the first thing we do is turn off an electric alarm clock, 
perhaps, and then flick a switch and lights go on. We do almost 
everything without thinking, and that reflects on our use of energy. 
Someone makes coffee. They turn on a stove to make coffee or plug in a 
toaster to make toast. They get in their car to drive to work, perhaps 
take a shower beforehand with hot water from a hot water heater. All of 
those, even before they get started, reflect the prodigious use of 
energy in our country.

Almost two-thirds of the oil that we use in this country comes from 
other countries outside our shores. I have spoken often about this 
fact. But we stick straws in this planet and suck oil out of it. We 
suck out about 85 million barrels of oil a day and one-fourth is 
destined to come to the United States because that is how much we need 
and how much we use. The problem is that about two-thirds of it comes 
from other countries. Some of it comes from countries that do not like 
us very much.

The question is, How do we provide greater energy security for our 
country, more energy security so we are less vulnerable? Second, and 
just as important, how do we change our mix of energy and our use of 
energy to protect our planet with respect to the issue of climate 
change?

Let me talk about this for a moment and say the following: First, 
climate change is important. There is something happening to our 
climate, and we ought to address it. Even the skeptics should at least 
be in support of a series of no-regret steps that if 50 years from now 
you decide that climate change was not happening, at least you have 
done something you don't have regrets doing because they were the right 
things to do. Even the skeptics should agree about that. But, yes, 
something is happening to our climate and we ought to take some steps 
to address them. I am in favor of capping carbon. The use of carbon and 
emitting it into the airshed is a serious problem. We need to have a 
lower-carbon future. I am in favor of capping carbon emissions. But it 
has to be done in a smart way and an appropriate way, and I am in favor 
of that. I am also in favor of putting a price on carbon.


There are some people who I think that I and others who want to bring 
the Energy bill to the floor of the Senate--which came from the Energy 
Committee and the work we did last year--don't support addressing 
climate change. I support the effort to address climate change. I 
support a cap on carbon, and I support the opportunity to decide that 
we are going to not only lower carbon emissions, but put a price on 
carbon, which is a way to accomplish all that. What I don't support is 
what is called ''cap and trade'' as the mechanism to do that because I 
don't have any interest or willingness to consign a $1 trillion carbon 
securities market to Wall Street to speculate on. There are other ways 
to do this.

Let me just say that the issue of restraining carbon and putting a 
price on carbon can be done in many different ways. Some of my 
colleagues say: Well, the only way to do it is what we call cap and 
trade. I don't believe that, and I don't support that for the reasons I 
have described. There could be a carbon fee, a straightforward carbon 
fee, which is much less complicated. There is the cap-and-dividend 
approach, which has some advantages as well. There is a sector-by-
sector approach. There are a number of hybrid approaches being 
discussed. There is the command-and-control approach, where you simply 
say: Here is the restriction. So, there are many different approaches 
to this issue of restricting carbon and trying to price carbon.

But here is what is happening. We passed an energy bill out of the 
energy committee last June. It was bipartisan. Republicans and 
Democrats joined together and we passed an energy bill and here is what 
it does: It will reduce the amount of carbon emitted into the airshed, 
it will maximize the production of energy from wind and solar sources, 
which are carbon free, and it will build the transmission capability 
around the country, a superhighway of transmission so you can gather 
energy from where the sun shines and the wind blows and put it on the 
wire to move the energy where it is needed to a load center. We also 
have a renewable electricity standard, called an RES, requiring 15 
percent of all electricity be done from renewables. I would offer an 
amendment to take that to 20 percent, if we can get the bill to the 
floor of the Senate.

That is just an example of what is in the bill. In fact, this is a 
chart reflecting that it will reduce our dependence on foreign energy 
and it will increase domestic production. It was my amendment that 
opens the eastern Gulf of Mexico for production. It is the only area 
that is not now open and has substantial reserves of both oil and 
natural gas. We establish a renewability


electricity standard, create a transmission superhighway. We electrify 
and diversify the vehicle fleet in our country. Seventy percent of the 
oil used in this country is used in the vehicle fleet. So that is very 
important. The bill contains substantial provisions dealing with energy 
efficiency and new green energy technology.

All those things are exactly what we would do if we had already 
passed a climate change bill to say: All right. Now how do you 
implement it? What are the provisions you develop in order to implement 
this, to have less carbon emitted? This is what you would do.

So many of us have been impatient about trying to get this bill to 
the floor of the Senate, but here is what I understand. I understand 
that those who say they want climate change legislation first have said 
they don't want an energy bill to come to the floor of the Senate 
because they want there to be some agreement on climate change, and 
until they get that, they don't want the Energy bill to come to the 
floor of the Senate. My view is, we should bring the Energy bill to the 
floor of the Senate. Let's all of us decide this is a priority. When 
the bill comes to the floor of the Senate, let's reach an agreement on 
some kind of climate change amendment to this bill and move ahead.

I wouldn't support cap and trade, but there are other things I will 
support that will put a price on carbon. But why would we end this 
Congress not having achieved some very substantial achievements in a 
bipartisan energy bill that will actually reduce the emission of carbon 
in the atmosphere? That makes no sense to me.

As we go forward, I know this is an issue that requires it fit into a 
broader set of issues--immigration reform is discussed these days, Wall 
Street reform or financial reform is going to come to the floor at some 
point, which will take some time, appropriations bills, and there are 
many other things--but I still believe it is very important that we 
diversify America's energy supply, that we maximize the production of 
renewable energy, and that we produce more here at home and, yes, that 
includes oil and natural gas. The use of coal is also very important, 
the use of coal using new technology to decarbonize. We can do all 
these things. Our legislation includes the provisions that will 
accomplish that.

So, what we need to have happen is to have our legislation come to 
the floor of the Senate from the Energy Committee. I would say to all 
those who wish to work on the broader piece of climate change to add to 
it as an amendment. I support a carbon cap, and I will support pricing 
carbon. That does not include support for cap and trade. If we haven't 
learned anything from the last decade or so about what Wall Street 
would do with a $1 trillion securities market, then we are pretty ill-
prepared to legislate on these issues.

There are not a lot of weeks left in this legislative session, and my 
fervent hope, I would say to those who have been working on climate 
change and blocking our ability to bring an energy bill to the floor of 
the Senate, is that we can perhaps find a way to work together to bring 
the Energy bill to the floor. That is the way the Senate works. The 
Senate works by running things through a committee and working hard to 
achieve compromise. We did that on a bipartisan basis and passed a 
piece of legislation that is a Democratic-Republican energy bill that 
reduces carbon, maximizes renewable energy, opens additional areas of 
drilling in the eastern gulf, builds an interstate highway of 
transmission capability, has the first ever RES, renewable electricity 
standard, and all those things are important to this country. We should 
not leave them at the starting gate. Let's at least decide that this, 
too, is a priority for our country. Yes, health care is a priority, but 
so is energy.

Let me make one final point. If tomorrow morning, instead of flicking 
that switch, shutting off the alarm clock, taking a shower with the use 
of an electric water heater, putting a piece of bread in the toaster, 
taking something out of your refrigerator and using all that energy 
even before you get in your car to go to work, if, God forbid, somehow 
terrorists interrupted the pipeline of foreign oil coming to this 
country--and there are a lot of points where that possibility exists--
this country's economy would be flat on its back. We are, in my 
judgment, far too vulnerable with the percentage of our economy that 
runs on foreign oil and there is a way to respond to that and a way to 
address it and much of that is included in this legislation that has 
already passed the Energy Committee on a bipartisan vote.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.