---
---

# INTRODUCTION OF AMERICAN BRAILLE FLAG MEMORIAL BILL
## `0123debdd1af81e9d6c0c51e555984ed`
`Mr. TIAHRT — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Madam Speaker, our Nation has over 1,000,000 blind and 
low-vision veterans, and those numbers continue to rise. The Department 
of Defense estimates that 16 percent of those injured in Operation 
Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom suffer from severe vision 
loss. An additional 10-12 million Americans have blind and low vision.

Prior to the creation of the Braille American flag, the American flag 
was not accessible to the blind. This flag, created by the Kansas 
Braille Transcription Institute in Wichita, Kansas, has been specially 
designed in a way that informs the blind of the full color of the 
American flag, 13 stripes, and 50 stars on the blue field. 
Additionally, this tactile flag bears the Pledge of Allegiance in both 
raised print and grade one braille.

Today, I am introducing legislation that calls for the Army to place 
a Braille American flag at Arlington National Cemetery. Arlington 
National Cemetery is a national place of remembrance and honor for our 
Nation's veterans and is visited by an estimated 4 million people 
annually. Placing the Braille American flag there would bring honor to 
our Nation's blind community and allow our blind veterans to ''see'' 
the American flag again.

Madam Speaker, I am honored this legislation has been endorsed by the 
Blind Veterans of America, and I look forward to quick action by the 
Congress on the bill. We owe a huge debt of gratitude towards those who 
have served, and this simple action will mean much to our patriotic 
blind veterans. I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
effort in placing the Braille American flag at Arlington National 
Cemetery.
