---
---

# None
## `012368b050a38e4b79e3602a46a5d54a`
`Mrs. BOXER — 18 June 2009`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Madam President, I wish to be heard briefly.

We heard Senator McCain attack this bill that is before us that 
primarily funds two wars, takes care of our wounded warriors, invests 
in new hospitals for them to be treated for their brain injuries, helps 
them with their childcare, and essentially starts us on the path of 
bringing our troops home from Iraq--something President Obama promised 
to do--and changes our focus in Afghanistan, which has been very 
scattered, and focuses us on routing out the Taliban, who make it 
possible for al-Qaida to thrive. So this bill protects the American 
people.

I have been very clear, I have said I want to see our Afghanistan 
policy work. I said I am going to give it this year for that to happen, 
and I hope it does happen. Because we were attacked by al-Qaida. We 
were attacked by Osama bin Laden. We were attacked because al-Qaida had 
sanctuary in Afghanistan. And instead of going into Afghanistan, the 
way we should have, we shortchanged that mission that I voted for and 
turned around and went into Iraq. We had President Bush, with his 
constant focus on Iraq, lead us to a very dark period--very dark 
period--in our history, where we lost thousands of our soldiers, 
thousands more were


wounded--and you all know the story of the torture and all the rest 
that accompanied this--and led us to a place where America has lost its 
standing in the world.

This President inherited two wars. Yes, he is trying to end one and 
refocus another. He inherited the worst recession since the Great 
Depression. I call it the ''Great Recession.'' And he also had to cope 
with threats from North Korea, Iran, from pirates on the open seas, 
instability in Pakistan. And then, on top of it all, he is facing, and 
we are facing, a health threat from the swine flu, the H1N1 virus. So 
he comes to us with an emergency spending bill.

Do I like everything in this bill? I do not. This is about a 
compromise. I do not like everything in this bill. But to tear down the 
attempt of what we are trying to do here, which is to begin moving our 
troops out of Iraq, refocus our effort in Afghanistan, focus on the 
wounded warriors, focus on global AIDS reduction, focus on the world 
recession--that is another thing we are doing. I think it has to be 
done. I would much rather do it all in the normal budget process. That 
is why President Obama has said this is the last war supplemental we 
will have. I compliment him on that. President Bush sent supplemental 
requests to Congress year after year after year. This President says 
this is the last time, and I take him at his word.

I think it is important, instead of being so terribly negative, to at 
least give a balanced overview. Many of the funds in the bill for 
Afghanistan will go to help the women and the children of Afghanistan. 
It is very hard for me to understand how anyone could oppose that. We 
have women who have acid thrown in their face if they do not obey their 
husband or they take off a face covering. We have children being 
stoned--girls--on their way to school. It seems to me that we ought to 
give it a chance before we leave these women high and dry. I, for one, 
cannot do that.

Again, I have said we have to do this right, and we have to do it 
quickly. Because I am not going to give my vote to an open checkbook 
for another war. But I believe this administration gets it and I 
believe they are training the troops in Afghanistan and I believe they 
are working to build a civil society there. Because, at the end of the 
day, we cannot be the policemen of the world. We have to make sure the 
people we are helping want to be helped and want to run their own 
societies. That is our hope in Iraq, finally. That is our hope in 
Afghanistan.

As I look around and I look around the world and I look around this 
country and I see the pain and suffering in this country--this 
recession--we have to understand we are in a global economy. That is 
why the President wanted those IMF funds: So we can avert a depression 
out there in the world.

There are peacekeeping funds in this bill. Anyone who is following 
what is happening in Africa--whether it is Darfur or the Democratic 
Republic of Congo or other places--understands the brutality that is 
going on. We need to help end the brutality, particularly--and I know 
my colleague in the chair knows this--the brutality against the women, 
where in these countries rape is used as a tool of war and rape is used 
as a tool of ethnic cleansing. We cannot allow that to happen. It is an 
obligation we have as the leader of the free world.

I guess I wish to say to my colleague from Arizona, I totally 
understand his frustration with spending. I have to tell him, this 
Democratic Congress is going to wrap its arms around spending. We did 
it before under President Clinton. We had horrible deficits that 
President Clinton inherited from the other George Bush, and we got our 
act in order. We had pay as you go. We are going to do that with this 
President.

But let me tell you, this President has been in office for five 
months, January through June, and we have averted economic disaster and 
we have a foreign policy on the right track. There was an election in 
Lebanon where the Lebanese people elected a pro-Western government. We 
have other things happening around the world today that indicate people 
hear now. In very high-tech ways, they are learning that freedom is 
valuable. But it does not come to us free.

Yes, I do not like everything in this bill. I could go through my 
list too. Because each one of us would write a different bill. But I 
will tell you what I like less, the loss of jobs, the threat of the 
swine flu, the threat of AIDS, the threat of world instability, the 
spread of weapons.

So I say, we should vote for this bill, as flawed as it is, sending a 
clear message to our President that we agree with him, but that this 
should be the last war supplemental. Let's do these things on budget. 
Let's go back to pay-go. Let's wrap our arms around fiscal 
responsibility, the way we did in the 1990s.

Let me remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, who are 
ranting and raving about deficits, under their President we had the 
most outrageous deficits, the most outrageous debt. We Democrats, under 
Bill Clinton, got a balanced budget in place, and we had a surplus--not 
a deficit, we had a surplus--and we had the debt going down. It was 
going to be eliminated. Then George Bush came in. He started this war 
in Iraq--a war with an open checkbook, no end in sight, no checks and 
balances on it, and tax breaks to the people who earn $1 million or 
more. It drove us into the ground. That is what brought us to this 
January, when our new President took all this on his shoulders and 
shared the burden with the Democratic Congress. I think we have averted 
the worst of it. We have a long way to go. I think this supplemental 
will help us get the rest of the way. Coming at us is pay as you go. 
Coming at us is fiscal responsibility. Coming at us is a challenge. We 
are going to have to make those difficult choices. That is one of the 
reasons we want to take care of health care and energy because, at the 
end of the day, those will help our economy.


The challenges are great. There is plenty of stuff in this bill I 
don't like, but I think, overall, this bill moves us in the right 
direction, in terms of helping our men and women in uniform, helping 
our national security, helping our public health, helping the global 
recession, and moving us toward a better day.

So I will support this bill. I thank you very much, Madam Chair.

I yield the floor and I note the absence of a quorum.