# AMERICAN JOBS AND CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES ACT OF 2010
## `013c52cc2cd7198b6d066a22ce804c0a`
`Mr. HARKIN — 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I am sorry I was not here on the floor--
but I was watching in my office--when my colleague from Ohio, Senator 
Brown, made his recent statement on the Senate floor. I think Senator 
Brown pointed out very poignantly what is happening to so many people 
in our country today who have exhausted their unemployment insurance 
benefits. I would like to follow up on the comments made by Senator 
Brown to reinforce what he said just a few minutes ago on the Senate 
floor and the dire straits that so many people find themselves in going 
into the Fourth of July holiday.

Recently, a national group of business economists released its 2010 
economic outlook, predicting that America's economy is ''on track'' 
toward recovery. Well, this is encouraging news. It indicates we are 
moving in the right direction under President Obama's leadership. But 
we also know the recovery is very fragile.

For example, last week, we learned that sales of new homes plummeted 
33 percent in May, to the least level in 40 years. Let me repeat that. 
Home sales in May fell to the least level in 40 years. Banks are still 
reluctant to lend to small businesses. It is not that they do not have 
money. According to a new Federal Reserve report, U.S. companies are 
hoarding an all-time high sum of $1.84 trillion in cash, but they 
remain largely unwilling to invest, hire, and expand.

U.S. companies are hoarding an all-time high sum--$1.84 trillion in 
cash--but they are not investing, they are not hiring, and they are not 
expanding. So the threat of this double-dip recession is very real.

These economic warning signs are not just abstract facts and figures. 
They have very real consequences for families across the country. That 
is what my friend from Ohio was talking about earlier. The unemployment 
report for May was very disappointing. By the official numbers, there 
are 15 million hard-working people who have lost their jobs through no 
fault of their own, and they are struggling to find work. Those are the 
official numbers--the official numbers. Many experts in this field 
agree that the real numbers are far higher.

So when you count the people who have become so discouraged that they 
have stopped looking for work, or who are working part time 
involuntarily because they cannot get full time work, the number of 
unemployed workers is far higher, like about 30 million people.

So as shown on this chart, here is sort of the official figure of 15 
million. But that is just people who are right now on the unemployment 
rolls who are actively looking for work. We have enough data to show 
that people have been out of work for so long--they have hunted for so 
long, and they are discouraged; they are not looking right now 
actively--they are not counted as


unemployed. The young people who have not had jobs for the first time, 
who are out of school but have not had jobs for the first time, they 
are not counted as unemployed. People who are working makeshift jobs 
for bits and pieces here and there, part-time, who one time had a full-
time job, they are not counted either. When we add all those up, our 
real unemployment in this country is right around 30 million people.

The official figures will say there are five unemployed workers for 
every available job. That is not true. It is more like 10 workers. Job 
openings in America: 2.69 million. That is how many jobs are in America 
right now that are open--at least last month anyway. There are 30 
million people out there after those 2.69 million jobs; not 1 in 5, but 
1 in 10, a little over 1 in 10. It is little wonder that the average 
spell of unemployment in this country has skyrocketed to 34 weeks, far 
higher than in previous recessions. This chart shows that--here is the 
recession of 1980, 10 weeks; in July of 1981, 14 weeks; in July of 
1990, 12 weeks; March of 2001, the recession, 13 weeks. These are the 
unemployment spells we had during those recessions. We are now up to 34 
weeks and counting. Compare that to the recessions of the past. It is a 
small wonder that a lot of people say this is not a recession, this is 
a depression. People don't want to say it, but in many ways, we are on 
the edge of a depression.


As a result, a record number of Americans is facing long-term 
unemployment; 6.8 million Americans out of work for more than half a 
year, by official numbers alone. That is the highest number of long-
term unemployed we have had since we started keeping track in 1948. Let 
me repeat that. The number of Americans out of work for more than half 
a year is the highest--the highest--since we have kept track of this 
since 1948. The families of these long-term unemployed are hanging on 
by a thread. Their savings are gone. Unemployment benefits are the only 
lifeline they have to pay the rent and put food on the table.

Again, I know I am not the only Member of this body whose office has 
been flooded with heartbreaking stories of families back home 
struggling to make ends meet. We heard a number of those stories from 
Senator Brown from Ohio. These are people trying their hardest, doing 
everything they can to find work, but the jobs aren't there.

I heard from a community college professor from Sioux City who was 
laid off due to budget cuts. She has applied for dozens of jobs, many 
far below her skill level. She is often told she is overqualified. She 
has exhausted her unemployment benefits. She and her sons, one of whom 
is a special needs child, are on Medicaid and they have applied for 
food stamps.

I heard from a worker in Des Moines who has been in the insurance 
industry for many years. She was laid off almost a year ago and has 
struggled to find work. Her benefits were cut off last week. Here is 
what she writes. She says:




 My concern is that my family cannot survive without the 


 unemployment benefits. We have depleted our savings just to 


 save the house and not get behind on the bills. I know there 


 are others far worse off. Please help pass the emergency 


 unemployment insurance extension.


I heard from a schoolteacher in northern Iowa who was laid off in 
October of 2008. She recently ran out of unemployment benefits and had 
to apply for welfare. She writes:




 I have not felt so humiliated in 20 years. I have been a 


 productive and hard-working woman since I was 13, but now I 


 feel insignificant. Please do not misunderstand. I have been 


 trying to find full-time employment, but to no avail.


Again, these are hard-working people trying their best, who never 
imagined they would be in need of Federal assistance. They paid into 
the unemployment insurance system while they were working. Their 
employers paid in. They ought to be able to count on it when times get 
tough. To me, it is a matter of fundamental fairness and human decency.

Yet, in the face of so many families in crisis, an extension--a 
short-term extension--of unemployment insurance is being needlessly, 
and I would even say cruelly, obstructed here in the Senate. Time and 
again we have tried to pass an extension of unemployment benefits and 
time and time again that effort has been blocked by Members on the 
other side of this aisle. As a result of this political gamesmanship, 
as of the end of last week--at the end of last week--1,350,000 
Americans exhausted their unemployment benefits because of the lapse in 
this program. By the end of this week, that will go up to 1,720,000 who 
will be cut off because we won't extend it here. By July 10, 2.14 
million--2,140,000 Americans will have their unemployment benefits cut 
off.

Blocking this bill may be a political game for some over here in the 
minority party, but it is not a game to millions of Americans who have 
lost their lifeline. For them, the obstruction of this bill is a 
personal and family crisis of the first magnitude.

Imagine: We are about to go out of here in a couple of days for 10 
days, 12 days, something like that, to celebrate our Nation's birthday, 
the Fourth of July weekend. I am sure Senators will be with their 
families; Congress men and women will be with their families, and all 
of our staffs. We all have jobs. We have good jobs that pay us well. We 
have good benefits--health benefits, retirement benefits--as does our 
staff, Republican staff and Democratic staff. Republican Senators and 
Democratic Senators, we have good pay. We will have a good Fourth of 
July with our families. We will watch the fireworks and have hot dogs 
and hamburgers, listen to patriotic speeches, maybe make a few 
ourselves. How about all these people? How about these people? How 
about these families? What are they thinking about on the Fourth of 
July? They have lost their benefits. They don't know where to turn. 
What are they going to be celebrating? What are they going to think 
about their country? What are they going to think about this Congress, 
that turns its back on these people?

There is no reason why we can't extend the unemployment insurance 
benefits, none whatsoever. I think that is what we have to be thinking 
about.

Another thing that I think hits pretty hard, I have heard political 
candidates out on the stump who want to take a place in the Senate, or 
maybe in the House of Representatives, out there talking about how we 
shouldn't extend these benefits because this encourages people not to 
go to work; it sort of encourages laziness. Well, I think that is 
insulting and illogical. As I said, there are 30 million people out of 
work looking for 2 million jobs. They say, Well, but if you give them 
these unemployment benefits, it makes them lazy. They won't go to work.

The numbers vary from State to State, but the unemployment benefit 
nationwide is about $300 a week, below the poverty line. So here is the 
average income for a family of four on unemployment benefits: It is 
about $15,600. It is more in some States, less in other States. That is 
an average. So what is the poverty line for a family of four? It is 
$22,000. That is below the poverty line. They are telling me people 
don't want to go to work? These are people who had work. They are not 
out of work because they walked off the job; they are out of work 
because they were cut off of work. In some States, benefits are 
smaller. For example, in Mississippi, the weekly maximum benefit is 
$235 a week. Again, that is thousands of dollars less than the annual 
salary of a full-time minimum wage worker. Again, I can't imagine 
anyone who had the alternative to make more money and to have a full-
time job would say, No, I want to stay on unemployment benefits. That 
is insulting. It is insulting.

I have also heard my colleagues object to this benefit extension on 
the grounds that providing these benefits is too expensive. It will add 
to the deficit. I understand the concern, and we are all concerned 
about the deficit of this country. But, it doesn't hold water when we 
are sitting in the midst of an economic crisis. We are about to pass a 
supplemental appropriations bill here sometime soon, probably after we 
get back from the Fourth of July break. It has about $37 billion in 
there in military aid to Iraq and Afghanistan. We are building 
infrastructure projects over there. We are putting people to work 
there. We are continuing to lose a lot of American lives, young 
Americans getting injured and killed, and that is adding to the 
deficit. Yet we are not paying for that. That is adding to the deficit.



It seems to me if we are trying to look ahead and trying to protect 
the people of this country, we want to get people back to work. We want 
to get the economy going again. We need to get the recovery up and 
running. Unemployment benefits cost money, yes, but think about it this 
way. That money is spent here in America. It is not spent overseas and 
it is not spent someplace else. It is spent here.

What do people do when they get unemployment insurance benefits? What 
do they do with that money? Do they put it in a shoe box? Do they bury 
it in a hole in the ground? No. They go out and they spend it. They 
spend it on food and clothes and the necessities of life: housing, 
rent, utilities. That money spins around in the economy. That is why 
the economists all agree that one of the--this is from 
moodyseconomy.com. The biggest boost for the economy in terms of 
benefits from the government, the biggest bang for the buck, so to 
speak, are food stamps. That is because poor people who get food stamps 
spend it right away on food. Not all, but most of the food is grown in 
this country and processed; not all of it, but most of it. So you get a 
big bang for the buck. For every dollar in food stamps, you get $1.73 
in economic activity in this country--$1.73 for every dollar invested. 
Unemployment benefits, $1.63. Right next to food stamps, unemployment 
benefits. Infrastructure investments that so many of us talk about, 
very close on their heels: $1.59. If we want to put people to work, 
let's start doing infrastructure rebuilding in America. Rebuild our 
sewer and water systems, our highways, roads, bridges, rails, high 
speed. That is a great investment, plus it will put a lot of people to 
work too.

A whole lot of people say, Well, we have to extend the Bush tax cuts 
to get the economy going. Extending the Bush tax cuts is a 49-cent 
return on the dollar--not a very good investment, folks. Not very good.

So unemployment benefits, yes, they cost money. Yes, they do add to 
the deficit, but they provide for a lot of economic activity in this 
country--a lot more than extending a tax cut. For example, in Iowa 
alone, more than 3,700 jobs were saved or created in my State in 2009 
thanks to the benefits of unemployment insurance. That is 3,700 jobs in 
my State alone because of unemployment benefits.

Again, under these circumstances, obstruction of an extension of 
unemployment benefits is inexplicable. How do you explain it? How do 
you explain something such as that to someone who is on their lifeline, 
has lost their benefits, or is on the verge of losing their benefits 
right now? It is like a person who is in the hospital with a serious 
infection. The doctor says, OK, here is a 15-day course of antibiotics. 
The patient goes home and says OK, 15 days, I have to take the 
antibiotics every day. But day 8 comes, day 9 comes, the patient feels 
better, they stop taking their antibiotics. The infection reasserts 
itself, the patient is right back in the hospital.

That is where we are in this economic recovery. We made the mistake 
once before; history shows this. In 1937, we were getting out of a 
depression, the public works projects and things President Franklin 
Roosevelt and the Democratic Congress put in place were getting us out 
of the recession. But then the so-called deficit hawks took over and 
began then to tighten down on the benefits and these programs. What 
happened? The Federal Reserve started tightening up the money, Congress 
slashed spending, the Fed tightened its policy, and the economy plunged 
back down into a depression.

That is why I used the analogy of someone in the hospital with a 
serious infection and they are prescribed 15 days of antibiotics, but 
after 5 to 7 days, they feel better and they stop, the infection then 
reasserts itself, and they are right back in the hospital. That is 
where we are now.

Well, quite frankly, there is an infection in our country. The 
infection is called a recession, a deep recession, a depression. Thirty 
million people are out of work. That is an infection. There is one 
thing that will help relieve that infection right now: the medicine of 
unemployment benefits.