---
---

# None
## `013fb75a79b1be51d9714b67d88af22c`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 4 May 2010`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I wish to share a few remarks about the 
recent arrest of the Faisal Shahzad, the individual who allegedly 
attempted to detonate a car bomb in Times Square in a plot to kill a 
lot of Americans.

I have been asked about that incident several times over the last 
several days, and I think I was incorrect in making comments to 
reporters and even to friends about the precise legal situation in 
which we are involved. Let me briefly summarize what I think the 
current state of the law is, and all of us will then be better able to 
respond to the questions we may be asked.

The Christmas Day bombing suspect, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, as was 
established pretty quickly, is an unprivileged enemy belligerent and is 
thus eligible to be tried for his offenses and detained as a person at 
war against the United States. Mr. Abdulmutallab is an individual who 
could be held as a prisoner of war, if the military so chooses, for so 
long as the hostilities continue, just as we did in World War II and 
every war the United States has been part of. Also, the military would 
be entitled to try Mr. Abdulmutallab, the Christmas Day bomber, by 
military commission. That is what we would normally do, and that is 
what was done in World War II when we caught Nazi saboteurs plotting to 
blow up targets in the U.S.

I believed the administration made a mistake when they treated Mr. 
Abdulmutallab as a civilian criminal and provided him Miranda rights 
and appointed him a lawyer, which we have to do if we are going to 
treat somebody as a criminal rather than an unprivileged enemy 
belligerent. I believe firmly that was an error, and the


normal procedure should be for these types of individuals to be tried 
or detained by the military because they are not criminals, they are 
warriors.

Yesterday's arrest of the Times Square bombing suspect, Faisal 
Shahzad, raises similar questions. My initial thought was that the 
Supreme Court has clearly held that a U.S. citizen who has joined the 
enemy to fight against this country can be designated as an unlawful 
enemy belligerent and could be detained for the duration of 
hostilities. That is a fact Abraham Lincoln never had any doubt about 
when he took people prisoners. I guess George Washington, when there 
was the Whiskey Rebellion, he never had any doubt he had the ability to 
attack, destroy, or arrest people when they were at war with the United 
States. Fortunately, he did not have to go so far, but that is the kind 
of thing the Supreme Court reaffirmed in Hamdi v. Rumsfeld.

In the Hamdi case, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who wrote the 
opinion, made clear that a citizen who has taken up arms in hostilities 
against the United States can be designated as an unlawful enemy 
combatant--''unlawful enemy belligerent'' is the phrase she used--and 
she wrote the opinion which said:




 There is no bar to this Nation's holding one of its own 


 citizens as an enemy combatant. . . . A citizen, no less than 


 an alien, can be ''part of or supporting forces hostile to 


 the United States or coalition partners'' and ''engaged in an 


 armed conflict against the United States''; such a citizen, 


 if released, would pose the same threat to returning to the 


 front during the ongoing conflict.


That is perfectly sound and perfectly reasonable. She concluded that 
Mr. Hamdi, who was captured alongside the Taliban in Afghanistan but 
who was an American citizen, could be detained for the duration of the 
hostilities authorized by the Authorization for the Use of Military 
Force that Congress passed, authorizing military force against him in 
order to keep him from rejoining the enemy.

We have had quite a number of people who have been released from 
Guantanamo, who have been captured in the process, who have returned to 
the combat and attacked us. So it is clear that under Hamdi, the 
administration has the authority to detain the Times Square terror 
suspect as an unprivileged enemy combatant if he can be linked to our 
terrorist enemies within the definitions of the Military Commission's 
Act.

But I want to be clear. There is a distinction: this suspect, unlike 
the Christmas Day bomber and the 9/11 plotters, cannot be tried via 
military commission under current law. He can be detained by the 
military, but not tried by military commission. In previous conflicts, 
military commissions were used to try civilians who took up arms 
against the United States in ways that violated the rules of war. For 
example, Herbert Haupt was one of the Nazi saboteurs who was prosecuted 
via military commission after plotting to blow up targets within the 
United States in the early months of World War II. He was a naturalized 
U.S. citizen, and the U.S. Supreme Court, in the landmark case of ex 
parte Quirin, allowed the commission to go forward with his trial, and 
I think he was executed. A number of the people involved in that case--
most of those who sneaked into the country by submarine, as I recall, 
off our coast, to blow up our cities and infrastructure and kill 
civilians--were tried for being in violation of the rules of law, very 
much unlike a German soldier who was captured on the battlefield during 
the Battle of the Bulge. They were detained as prisoners of war 
throughout the war. Because these people had violated the rules of war 
they could be tried by a military commission.

But what happened in the Haupt case ex parte Quirin is no longer law. 
Since 2006, the Military Commissions Act that Congress passed required 
and made it clear that the military commission trials are only 
available for alien unprivileged enemy belligerents. Accordingly, the 
Times Square bombing suspect who appears to be a citizen must be 
prosecuted, if he is prosecuted and tried at all, in Federal court--if 
the reports are accurate that he is a citizen.

I want to be sure. I think we have this matter straight. I believe an 
alien unlawful belligerent who is captured should not be treated like a 
criminal. They should not be appointed a lawyer that day to tell them 
don't say anything. They should not be advised of their rights because 
they are prisoners of war. If their actions amount to a violation of 
the rules of war, an alien unlawful enemy belligerent can be tried in 
civilian court, if we choose, or tried by a military commission. But if 
they are a citizen and they are caught under these circumstances, they 
can be detained in military custody, but they can't be tried by a 
military commission. They can only be tried by the civilian courts in 
civilian trials.

With regard to the matter of Miranda warnings, Miranda is not a 
constitutional requirement. It was never part of American law until 
recently--40 years ago, 50 years ago. No nation in the world I think--
except perhaps one, I forget which one--provides that you have to warn 
people they have a right to remain silent. We can ask them questions. 
They can remain silent. We can't force them to talk, but we don't have 
to read them the Constitution before we ask them questions. But we do.

So, to me, it makes no sense that we would provide this extra 
constitutional right to unlawful enemy alien combatants like a 
Christmas Day bomber. They should be detained by military custody. If 
they need to be tried, the choice should be made between whether to be 
tried in civilian courts or military courts. The ability to obtain good 
intelligence about the operation is more enhanced, in my view, without 
any doubt--even though sometimes people who are given the Miranda 
rights talk--but there is no doubt we will have less people talking if 
they are appointed lawyers and read Miranda rights than if we don't.

Since war is won or lost so often on the question of who has the best 
intelligence, we should not provide lawyers to individuals who are at 
war with us and seek to destroy our country and kill innocent men, 
women, and children.

I think that is the basic state of the law today. I have been a bit 
confused myself, and I am glad my staff has helped me get correct.

I yield the floor.