# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `013f322a4cc4894780e6648974bd07b7`
`Mr. LEAHY — 10 April 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. That is close enough; almost 100.

Mr. President, today the Senate turns to the consideration of another 
nomination for a lifetime appointment to the Federal bench--Brian Stacy 
Miller for the Eastern District of Arkansas. Judge Miller currently 
serves as a State appellate judge on the Arkansas Court of Appeals. He 
previously served as city judge in Holly Grove, AR, was a deputy 
prosecuting attorney for Phillips County, AR, and worked for several 
years in private practice.

With this nomination, we continue our work toward building a more 
representative Federal judiciary. I am pleased that, when confirmed, 
Judge Miller will be the 88th African-American currently serving on our 
Federal bench and the 74th African-American serving as a district court 
judge.

I thank Senators Pryor and Lincoln for their consideration of this 
nominee, and I thank Senator Feinstein for chairing the hearing on this 
nomination. I congratulate the nominee and his family on his 
confirmation today.

Today the Senate also considers another nomination for a lifetime 
appointment to the Federal bench--Stanley Thomas Anderson for the 
Western District of Tennessee. Judge Anderson is currently a magistrate 
judge for the Western District of Tennessee. He previously worked in 
private practice as the founder and owner of Anderson Law Firm in 
Jackson, TN.

He served as a claims commissioner for the State of Tennessee 
Department of Treasury and as assistant commissioner for the Tennessee 
Department of Transportation. I acknowledge the support of Senators 
Corker and Alexander for this nomination. I congratulate the nominee 
and his family on his confirmation today.

Another nomination for a lifetime appointment to the Federal bench is 
that of James Randal Hall for the Southern District of Georgia. Mr. 
Hall is currently a partner at the Augusta, GA, law firm of Warlick, 
Tritt, Stebbins & Hall.

He previously worked as corporate vice president and legal counsel 
for Bankers First Corporation and worked in private practice for 
several other Georgia law firms. Mr. Hall held the distinction of 
serving the people of the 22nd District of Georgia as a State senator.

I acknowledge the support of Senators Chambliss and Isakson and thank 
Senator Feinstein for chairing the hearing on this nomination. I 
congratulate the nominee and his family on his confirmation today.

Then we turn to the consideration of yet another nomination for a 
lifetime appointment to the Federal bench--the nomination of John A. 
Mendez for the Eastern District of California. Judge Mendez currently 
serves as a judge on the Sacramento County Superior Court. He 
previously served as the U.S. attorney for the Northern District of 
California and worked in private practice.

With this nomination, we continue our work toward building a more 
representative Federal judiciary. I am pleased that, when confirmed, 
Judge Mendez will be the 58th Hispanic judge currently serving on our 
Federal bench and would become the only currently active Hispanic judge 
in the Eastern District of California.

I thank Senators Feinstein and Boxer for their support of this 
nomination. I congratulate the nominee and his family on his 
confirmation today.

Mr. President, the Senate makes significant progress today by 
confirming yet another appointment to one of our important Federal 
circuit courts as well as four lifetime appointments of Federal 
district court nominations. The circuit court nomination we are 
considering is that of Judge Catharina Haynes of Texas. Her 
confirmation will fill the very last vacancy on the important court of 
appeals for the Fifth Circuit, but it is also a vacancy that has been 
listed as a judicial emergency.



I acknowledge the support of Senator Cornyn and his work with me to 
schedule her nomination. Senator Cornyn had the time to sit down and 
explain why she was important and brought her to my attention and 
helped me report it from the Judiciary Committee last week. I imagine 
Judge Haynes' first phone call if confirmed this afternoon, as I 
expect, will be to Senator Cornyn to say thank you.

Despite the progress we continue to make and will make today, some of 
the rhetoric from the other side of the aisle suggests that judicial 
confirmations is the most pressing and unsatisfied need facing our 
country. Now with an economic recession facing Americans, many would 
say already here, the massive job losses this year, and the home 
mortgage foreclosures and credit, any partisan effort to create an 
issue over judicial confirmations is greatly misplaced, and the 
American people can see through that facade.

The recent job loss reports from the Department of Labor are 
dramatic. In the first 3 months of this year the U.S. economy lost 
232,000 jobs. March marked the greatest loss of jobs during 1 month in 
at least 5 years. Instead of adding the 100,000 new jobs we would need 
each month to prevent unemployment from rising further, we have 
experienced 3 months in a row of significant job losses. This year 
alone we are already half a million jobs behind where we need to be 
just to stay even and not lose economic ground.

Yet last week when I convened the Judiciary Committee to make 
progress on bills to help homeowners in bankruptcy and to improve the 
False Claims Act to better target fraud, the priority of the 
Republicans was none of these important legislative issues. Instead, 
they engaged in a back and forth on judicial nominations. This 
administration is apparently more worried about the jobs of a small 
handful of controversial nominees--many, incidentally, who are not 
supported by their home State Senators--than they are about the jobs 
and lives of hundreds of thousands of Americans. With that massive loss 
of jobs, the Nation's unemployment rate has risen dramatically to over 
5.1 percent.

Let's take a look at where we are now. This is what has happened in 
this Presidency. Unemployment has gone up more than 21 percent during 
this Presidency. The price of gas has gone up more than 132 percent 
during the Bush Presidency. The number of uninsured has gone up 11 
percent during the Bush Presidency. The budget deficit has increased 
$590 billion, going from a quarter of a trillion dollar surplus to a 
$354 billion deficit. The trade deficit has gone up 87 percent. All 
these things have gone up during the Bush Presidency. Meanwhile, 
judicial vacancies have gone down 46 percent, from 9.9 percent to 5.3 
percent. And a lot of that, a significant part of that, happened during 
a time when Democrats were in charge.

Just think about that. Now it costs more than a billion dollars a day 
to pay down the interest on the national debt and the massive cost of 
the disastrous war in Iraq. Think about that, if you hear in your State 
you have a bridge that is somewhat dangerous but they can't afford to 
fix it. Think about that in your State, when you are told that Federal 
dollars to help law enforcement protect Americans from crime is no 
longer there because we have to send the money to the Iraqi police 
force, a police force that cannot account for thousands of the weapons 
that we gave them until some of them end up shooting at Americans. But 
somehow that money has to go to fix up Iraq, and we do not have it to 
fix up America. It has to go to Iraq while we are paying almost $4 a 
gallon for gasoline, and Iraq has a huge budget surplus from $100-a-
barrel oil. They ask us to pay for the reconstruction, and to pay for 
it, we take the money from reconstructing America. That is a billion 
dollars a day, $365 billion this year that could be better spent not on 
Iraq but on priorities such as health care for all Americans, better 
schools, fighting crime, treating diseases at home and abroad.

In contrast, one of the few numbers going down as the President winds 
down his tenure is that of judicial vacancies. Judicial vacancies are 
less than half of what they were during the last Democratic 
administration, when the Republican majority in the Senate chose to 
stall consideration of scores of nominees and maintained these 
vacancies, when they pocket filibustered over 60 of President Clinton's 
nominees. They succeeded in doubling the number of circuit court 
vacancies during those years and those vacancies rose to a high of 32 
with the resignations that accompanied the change of administration.

By contrast, Democrats have helped reduce circuit court vacancies 
across the country to as low as 13 in 2007. That is going to be the 
number of remaining circuit court vacancies today, after the 
confirmation of Judge Haynes. So that is half of what they were at the 
end of the last Democratic administration, when a Republican-led Senate 
was in charge.

During the last Democratic administration, the Republican chairman of 
the Judiciary Committee argued that the 103 vacancies that then existed 
did not constitute a vacancy crisis. I guess he meant that when you had 
a Democratic President, it was not a crisis. He also argued on numerous 
occasions that 67 vacancies meant full employment on the Federal 
courts, if you had a Democratic President. After today's confirmation, 
the Administrative Office of U.S. Courts will list 47 vacancies. That 
is 20 below what Republicans used to deem full employment, below half. 
We have cut in half the vacancy level they felt was appropriate for a 
Democratic administration. In the 17 months I chaired the Judiciary 
Committee during President Bush's first term, we acted faster and more 
favorably on more of this President's judicial nominees than any 17 
months and either of the Republican chairmen who succeeded me.

During those 17 months the Senate confirmed 100 judicial nominations. 
When I reassumed the chairmanship last year, the committee and the 
Senate continued to make progress with the confirmation of 40 more 
lifetime appointments of judges to our Federal courts. That is more 
than were confirmed during any of the 3 preceding years under 
Republican leadership and certainly more than were confirmed in 1996, 
1997, 1999, and 2000. What is the difference? A Democratic-led Senate 
did a lot better for a Republican President than a Republican-led 
Senate did for a Democratic President.

During this Presidency, while I have served as Judiciary chairman, 
the Senate will have proceeded after today to confirm 145 lifetime 
appointments in only 3 years, compared to 158 during the more than 4 
years of Republican control. When the Senate confirms Judge Haynes 
today--here we are in April--we will have surpassed the total number of 
circuit judges confirmed by Republicans during the entire 1996 session. 
It was easy to do because a Republican majority refused to confirm even 
one of President Clinton's circuit nominees, not one. Indeed, the first 
confirmation of any judge that session didn't even take place until 
July 10, and that was a district court. So we are also 3 months ahead 
of the schedule followed by the Republican leadership during that 
presidential election year.

Some will undoubtedly repeat the partisan Republican talking point 
that the Senate must confirm 15 circuit judges for Congress to match a 
mythical statistical average of selected years. God love those mythical 
statistical averages. It is sort of like the man who puts one foot in 
boiling water and one foot in a block of ice and says: On average, I am 
pretty darn comfortable.


Well, it is true that during the last 2 years of this President's 
father's term, with a Democratic-led Senate, we confirmed an 
extraordinary number of circuit nominees: 20. It is true that during 
the last 2 years of the Reagan administration, a Democratic-led Senate 
confirmed 17 circuit court nominees. So what they are saying is, if we 
are going to use an average, we are going to use an average only when 
the Democrats are in charge.

Maybe it would be different if after we set those high records--
Democrats with a Republican President--that even a little bit of that 
had been reciprocated. Well, it was not. Instead, the Republican-led 
Senate, with a Democratic President, made sure that judicial vacancies 
skyrocketed to historic levels. It actually got to the point that Chief 
Justice Rehnquist, a conservative Republican, weighed in publicly to 
criticize the Republican-led Senate.



Republicans do not talk about what they did. I do not believe they 
can bear an accurate comparison of what we have accomplished and what 
they did not.

So I wonder when the Republican leader and others who come to the 
floor with accusations about slow-walking nominations will explain 
their roles during the Clinton years--especially the over 60 they 
pocket filibustered, something joined by every Republican member of the 
Senate Judiciary Committee.

Why was it that during the 1996 session--the end of President 
Clinton's first term--the Republican-led Senate refused to confirm a 
single circuit nomination?

Why was it that Bonnie Campbell, the former attorney general of Iowa, 
who was supported by both Senator Harkin, a Democrat, and Senator 
Grassley, a Republican, was never even allowed to be considered by the 
Judiciary Committee, to say nothing about the full Senate, after her 
hearing?

Why was it that Kent Markus, of Ohio, a law professor, a former high-
ranking Department of Justice official, who was supported by both his 
home State senators--both Republicans, incidentally--was never 
considered by the Judiciary Committee or this Senate?

Why was it that so many circuit vacancies were left without any 
nominees considered during the last years of the last Democratic 
administration when Republicans controlled the Senate?

I remember one. When I asked them about that one, they said: Well, we 
can't have her. We are not sure of her qualifications. That nominee is 
now the dean of the Harvard Law School--one of the most prestigious 
legal positions in America.

So Republican Senators have many questions to answer before they 
level accusations of any kind. To any objective observer, the answer is 
clear. The Republican Senate chose to stall consideration of circuit 
nominees and maintain vacancies during the Clinton administration in 
hopes they would have a Republican Presidency. Vacancies rose to over 
100. Circuit vacancies doubled. But as soon as a Republican President 
was elected, they sought to turn the tables and take full advantage of 
the vacancies they prevented from being filled. Well, they have been 
extraordinarily successful. Currently, more than 60 percent of active 
judges on the Federal circuit courts were appointed by Republican 
Presidents, and more than 35 percent have been appointed by this 
President.

Another way to look at their success and compare the better treatment 
shown to this President is to observe that the Senate has already 
confirmed more than three-quarters of this President's circuit court 
nominees, compared to only half of President Clinton's circuit nominees 
confirmed by a Republican-controlled Senate.

Now, as chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I have turned the other 
cheek. I have worked hard to improve the treatment of nominees. To make 
progress, I even chaired the Judiciary Committee's hearing on the 
circuit nomination before us today during a congressional recess. I 
said that we would treat this President's nominees more fairly than the 
Republicans treated President Clinton's, and we have. We have not 
pocket filibustered more than 60 of this President's judicial nominees, 
as was done to President Clinton's nominees. We have not opposed them 
in secret or anonymously. In fact, during my chairmanship, the views of 
home State senators, as reflected in the ''blue slips'' submitted to 
the committee, were made public for the first time. No more secret 
holds. We did not allow that. We have considered nominations openly and 
on the Record. We have proceeded with consideration of nominees whom I 
opposed, something that never happened under previous Republican 
leadership. If the Republican chairman opposed them, they never even 
got a consideration.

I am glad we have Judge Haynes here because if she is confirmed, then 
the Fifth Circuit will have no vacancies. I was almost worried whether 
she would get here.

Even though she was already on the Judiciary Committee's agenda, she 
appeared at a political, partisan function at the White House, where 
they were demanding that she be put on the agenda. Of course, she was 
already there. It had been noticed for a couple days. Then, when we 
were set to vote on her last week, Republicans almost filibustered her 
nomination. They talked so much, we virtually ran out of time, and I 
had to keep this committee in an extra 10 minutes; otherwise, she would 
not have been confirmed. It was then that I realized what was 
happening--just like in February, when they refused to show up and make 
a quorum throughout the whole month of February. If they had shown up, 
we would have passed out a number of judges. But they were planning to 
give speeches saying we are not passing out judges, so they would not 
show up to make sure that happened.