# None
## `01464529a2d690d00d8a959284afec67`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I think we have just seen an extraordinary 
chapter of how two leaders can come together and structure a procedure 
by which this Senate can go forward and achieve its objectives. I am 
totally supportive of the procedure enunciated by our two distinguished 
leaders because I strongly support the need for getting this 
appropriations legislation through and on to the President's desk so 
that we can fund adequately our Armed Forces, particularly those 
engaged in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The leadership further decided that those Senators who wish to 
address the conferees could do so by adding amendments to this bill. My 
understanding is that there are two amendments that have been filed on 
the other side of the aisle: one by Mr. Feingold and another by Mr. 
Levin. And in consultation with the distinguished Republican leader, I 
now file an amendment on this side of the aisle, although I am hopeful 
my amendment would not be viewed purely as a Republican amendment but 
that it could be a vehicle by which we can reach some level, hopefully 
a significant level, of bipartisan consensus on the several principles 
I have enunciated in this amendment.

Throughout the course of this debate on Iraq, since the President's 
announcement of a new strategy on January 10 of this year, there have 
been groups of Republicans and Democrats that have voiced our concerns 
about the strategies being employed in Iraq, and we continue to do so 
by virtue of this process now decided upon by the leadership whereby 
amendments to this bill can be brought up, which amendments reflect the 
sentiments of those who are sponsoring them.

At the present time, my amendment is sponsored by my principal 
cosponsor, the Senator from Maine, Ms. Collins, although I have been in 
consultation with a number of other Senators on this side of the aisle, 
as well as Senators on the other side of the aisle.

Given the brevity of the time today, since Senators have returned 
from their constituencies largely this morning, and the fact that we 
have been trying to work out the procedure just adopted by the Senate 
by the two leaders, it has not been possible for me to isolate a fixed 
set of cosponsors. Nevertheless, I do know of a number, certainly on 
this side, and I am hopeful on the other side, and now that this 
amendment is filed tonight, it is my expectation and hope that Senators 
will be adding their names as cosponsors. I urge that be done at the 
earliest opportunity because, as I understand it, and the leadership 
will subsequently address, I think, the Senate tonight respecting the 
legislative program tomorrow as to when my amendment, with such 
cosponsors that are able to add their names, and the two amendments 
pending from the other side--and I believe a fourth that is to be 
brought up by our distinguished Republican leader sometime this 
evening--will be debated, voted upon, and subject to a cloture motion.

Let me now turn to addressing the specifics of this amendment at this 
time. This amendment, in its preamble, has the following: We entitle it 
the ''President's Strategy In Iraq.'' Section 1. Findings regarding 
progress in Iraq, the establishment of benchmarks to measure that 
progress, and reports to the Congress.

The recitation in the first section of this amendment is a series of 
statements factually describing the situation as we, the sponsors of 
this amendment, feel have taken place, largely since January 10 of this 
year. Foremost among those obligations is, of course, our recognition 
of the enormity of the sacrifice of the men and women of the Armed 
Forces and their families and others who have taken an active role in 
carrying out our strategies in Iraq, not just since January 10 of this 
year but prior thereto, in the regrettably long period of time that 
this conflict in Iraq has persisted.

Following those statements, we then go to section 2, which is 
entitled, ''Conditioning of Future United States Strategy in Iraq on 
the Iraqi Government's Record of Performance on its Benchmarks.''




 In General. The United States strategy in Iraq, hereafter, 


 shall be conditioned on the Iraqi government meeting 


 benchmarks as told to Members of Congress by the President, 


 the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and the 


 Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and reflected in the 


 Iraqi Government's commitments to the United States, and to 


 the international community, including . . .


For example, benchmarks--and I shall read but several. First and 
foremost:




 Forming a Constitutional Review Committee and then 


 completing the Constitutional review;



 Enacting and implementing legislation on de-baathification;



 Enacting and implementing legislation to ensure the 


 equitable distribution of hydrocarbon resources of the 


 people of Iraq without regard to the sect or ethnicity of 


 recipients, and enacting and implementing legislation to 


 ensure that the energy resources of




 Iraq benefit Sunni Arabs, Shia Arabs, Kurds, and other 


 Iraqi citizens in an equitable manner.



 Enacting and implementing legislation on procedures to form 


 semi-autonomous regions;



 Enacting and implementing legislation establishing an 


 Independent High Electoral Commission; provincial elections 


 law; provincial council authorities; and a date for 


 provincial elections.


I shall not read further from this document. It will be a matter of 
record. But these benchmarks were ones put forth by the Iraqi 
Government, in large measure. What we are doing now is requiring the 
following:




 The President shall submit reports to the Congress on how 


 the sovereign government of Iraq is, or is not, achieving 


 progress towards accomplishing the aforementioned benchmarks, 


 and shall advise the Congress on how that assessment 


 requires, or does not require, changes to the strategy 


 announced on January 10, 2007.



 Reports Required.



 (1) The President shall submit an initial report, in 


 classified and unclassified format, to the Congress, not 


 later than July 15, 2007, assessing the status of each of the 


 specific benchmarks established above, and declaring, in his 


 judgment, whether satisfactory progress towards meeting these 


 benchmarks is, or is not, being achieved.



 (2) The President, having consulted with the Secretary of 


 State, the Secretary of Defense, the Commander, Multi-


 National Forces-Iraq, the United States Ambassador to Iraq, 


 and the Commander of U.S. Central Command, will prepare the 


 report and submit the report to Congress.



 (3) If the President's assessment of any of the specific 


 benchmarks established above is unsatisfactory, the President 


 shall include in that report a description of such revisions 


 to the political, economic, regional, and military components 


 of the strategy, as announced by the President on January 10, 


 2007. In addition, the President shall include in the report, 


 the advisability of implementing such aspects of the 


 bipartisan Iraq Study Group, as he deems appropriate.


And, as is well documented in the Senate, and well-respected, if I 
may say, by the Senate--the work of the Iraq Study Group.




 (4) The President shall submit a second report to the 


 Congress, not later than September 15, 2007, following the 


 same procedures and criteria outlined above.



 (5) The reporting requirement detailed in section 1227 of 


 the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 


 is hereby waived from the date of the enactment of this Act 


 through the period ending September 15, 2007.


That is put in there for the reason that we believe these reports by 
the President will supplant whatever reports had been required by that 
act. The force and effect of the requirement for those reports will 
pick up and continue after September of this year.




 (c) Testimony before Congress.



 (1) Prior to the submission of the President's second 


 report on September 15, 2007, and at a time to be agreed upon 


 by the leadership of the Congress and the Administration, the 


 United States Ambassador to Iraq and the Commander, Multi-


 National Forces Iraq--


That is General Petraeus--



 will be made available to testify in open and closed sessions 


 before the relevant committees of the Congress.


I will now refer to the section titled ''Limitations on Availability 
of Funds'' in this appropriations bill.




 Limitation. No funds appropriated or otherwise made 


 available for the ''Economic Support Fund'' and available for 


 Iraq may be obligated or expended unless and until the 


 President of the United States certifies in the report 


 outlined in subsection (2)(b)(1) above and makes a further 


 certification in the report outlined in subsection (2)(b)(4) 


 above that Iraq is making progress in each of the benchmarks 


 set forth in section 2 above.


To give the President a certain amount of flexibility--and this is 
the provision I am particularly indebted to our distinguished 
colleague, Ms. Collins of Maine, who has worked with me on it, as well 
as Senator Coleman and others who have been working with me--we provide 
the following:




 The President may waive the requirements of this section if 


 he submits to Congress a written certification setting forth 


 the detailed justification for the waiver, which shall 


 include a detailed report describing the actions being taken 


 by the United States to bring the Iraqi government into 


 compliance with the benchmarks set forth in section 2 above. 


 The certification shall be submitted in unclassified form, 


 but may include a classified annex.


We proceed to a section entitled ''Redeployment of U.S. Forces from 
Iraq.'' There has been considerable publicity attached to certain 
actions having been taken by the Council of Representatives in Iraq--
that is their basic name for their parliament--and to clarify that we 
have put in the following requirement:




 The President of the United States, in respecting the 


 sovereign rights of the nation of Iraq, shall direct the 


 orderly redeployment of elements of U.S. forces from Iraq, if 


 the components of the Iraqi government, acting in strict 


 accordance with their respective powers given by the Iraqi 


 Constitution, reach a consensus as recited in a resolution, 


 directing a redeployment of U.S. forces.


Now, proceeding to another section, ''Independent Assessments.''




 Assessment by the Comptroller General.



 Not later than September 1, 2007, the Comptroller general 


 of the United States shall submit to Congress an independent 


 report setting forth--



 (A) the status of the achievement of the benchmarks 


 specified in section 2 above; and



 (B) the Comptroller General's assessment whether or not 


 each such benchmark has [or has not] been met.



 (b) Assessment of the capabilities of Iraq Security forces.


This is a section which I worked on, now, for over 2 months, laying a 
foundation, with consultations with the White House senior staff, the 
Secretary of Defense, and indeed a private organization here, a well-
respected organization, independent of any affiliation with the 
Government, to participate in performing this report, as well as a very 
senior and highly respected retired military officer who, hopefully, 
will be designated to head up this report.

I believed it was imperative that the Congress needed to have an 
independent report, and by ''independent,'' I mean a report performed 
by a private sector entity with the advice and participation of at 
least one senior retired military officer, and maybe others, so that we 
can have a report to put side by side with the periodic evaluations of 
the Department of Defense as to the military--professional ability, 
capability, training, and equipment of the Iraqi security forces. That 
is essential. So that is the essence of this provision which I now 
read.




 (1) In General.--There is hereby authorized to be 


 appropriated for the Department of Defense, $750,000, that 


 the Department, in turn, will commission an independent 


 private sector entity which operates as a 501(c)(3) with 


 recognized credentials and expertise in militarily affairs, 


 to prepare an independent report assessing the following:



 (A) The readiness of the Iraqi security forces--ISF 


 [referred to] to assume responsibility for maintaining the 


 territorial integrity of Iraq, denying international 


 terrorists a safe haven, and bringing greater security to 


 Iraq's 18 provinces in the next 12-18 months, and bringing an 


 end to sectarian violence to achieve national reconciliation.



 (B) The training, equipping, command, control and 


 intelligence capabilities and logistics capacity of the ISF 


 [Iraqi Security Forces].



 (C) The likelihood that given the ISF's record of 


 preparedness to date, following years of training and 


 equipping by U.S. forces, the continued supports of U.S. 


 troops will contribute to the readiness of the ISF to fulfill 


 the missions outlined in subparagraph (A).



 (2) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the enactment of 


 this Act, the designated private sector entity shall provide 


 an unclassified report, with a classified annex, containing 


 its findings, to the House and Senate Committees on Armed 


 Services, Appropriations, Foreign Relations/International 


 Relations, and Intelligence.


Having worked on this report some 2 months now, I submitted it to 
colleagues in the House of Representatives. I am pleased to say that 
those colleagues saw fit to include that basic language on reporting 
and establishing this independent entity and individuals to study the 
Iraqi security forces. This provision which I have just read was 
contained in the House appropriations bill. It is my hope and 
expectation that it will be included by this Senate, the appropriators, 
in their bill such that it will emerge as part of the final conference 
report of the House and the Senate.

I once again thank many individuals who have worked with me and their 
respective staffs, who worked beginning last week on the final draft. 
They worked over the weekend, worked on Monday, worked today to create 
this document. I am hopeful a good number of our colleagues will see 
fit to cosponsor this document, which document and amendment will be 
discussed tomorrow in such brief period as outlined by the leadership. 
They will define it tonight, and then it will be voted upon.

I send the amendment to the desk.