# ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONTRACTING ACT
## `014763fa6448e75f802c2de66a652e56`
`Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia â€” 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia. Madam Chair, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Let me start by saying we all want to limit the use of no-bid 
contracts. These go back of course to the Revolutionary War, where the 
troops were marching and they needed food and there is one farmer 
around. And you can't go out to bid to see who is going to sell you the 
lowest corn; you take what is there. But they should be limited, 
because competition is the cornerstone of our contracting system.

Let me go through some of the assertions that are made in support of 
the bill and give my thoughts.

Assertion one is that spending on sole source and other 
noncompetitive contracts has more than doubled over the last 5 years. 
And although spending has increased significantly over the last 5 
years, it is due largely to 9/11 and Katrina. The total dollars 
competed is a percentage of total dollars available for competition. It 
has remained relatively constant between fiscal years 2001 and 2006, 
between 61 and 64 percent, according to the FPDS.

This notwithstanding, the Office of Federal Procurement Policy 
Administrator will be seeking to help in the leadership of the CAOs to 
reinvigorate through administrative means the use of competition and 
related practice for achieving a competitive environment. The role of 
competition advocates should be revived, with special emphasis on 
planning and execution in the management of hard-to-task and delivery 
orders.

There is an assertion that over the last 5 years the administration 
has jeopardized taxpayer interests and squandered hundreds of millions 
of dollars by giving private contractors exclusive control over huge 
portions of the reconstruction efforts in Iraq.



Frankly, DOD is giving increased attention to contingency 
contracting, including training for acquisition and program personnel 
and standard operating procedures. The Department of Defense and other 
agencies have recognized the need to increase the number of 
prepositioned, competitively awarded contracts to address 
contingencies. Also, the Department of Defense has several audit 
agencies including the Defense Audit Agency and Defense Contract 
Management Agency working in theater to monitor the contracts and 
resources.



Another assertion that comes from the other side is that this 
administration has justified the award of lucrative sole source 
contracts by citing urgent and compelling needs but then allowed these 
contracts to continue years after the emergency has passed.

The Chief Acquisition Officers Council, the CAOC, has established an 
Emergency Response and Recovery Working Group to improve access to 
information that can assist the acquisition workforce in planning for 
and addressing emergencies. The working group created a community of 
practice Web site, accessible at http://acc.dau.mil/emergencyresponse, 
so that agencies can share information about their policies and 
procedures, their best practices, their training resources, and other 
information of interest. For example, the site provides a link to the 
Emergency Acquisition Field Guide developed by FEMA so other agencies 
can learn about and adopt, as appropriate, practices employed by FEMA 
for performing specific assignments or functions in an emergency 
acquisition environment.

The emergency response and recovery Web site includes a list of 
interagency contracts that offer the types of supplies and services 
that were required by agencies to address disaster recovery for Katrina 
and 9/11, such as communications equipment, fuel and transportation, 
pharmaceuticals, portable shelters, generators, tarps, bottled water, 
and emergency meals. The GSA has established a disaster relief and 
emergency preparedness homepage that provides a quick reference guide 
to offerings on its Multiple Award Schedules that can be suitable for 
addressing readiness, intervention, counteractive solutions, or post-
emergency logistics.

Another assertion is that cost reimbursement-type contracts leave the 
taxpayer vulnerable to wasteful spending by providing contractors with 
little or no incentive to control costs. Between 2000 and 2005, the use 
of this type of contract has risen 75 percent.

Frankly, according to the FPDS again, the total government spending 
on contracts has increased considerably, roughly at the same percentage 
as the increases in cost-type contracts stated above. From fiscal year 
2000 to fiscal year 2005, total spending increased from $219 billion to 
$380 billion.

But cost-type contracts play a useful and necessary role in 
contracting when uncertainties involved in contract performance don't 
permit costs to be estimated with sufficient accuracy to use any type 
of fixed-price contract. And the contractors get caught on these many 
times when they move ahead and they estimate it to be one thing and 
then the needs of the contract change and they end up having to advance 
costs. So cost-type contracts in these types of situations are proven 
useful, but they are only good when they get the appropriate oversight 
from the procurement officers. And we don't address that underlying 
issue in a significant way in this legislation.

Agencies such as NASA rely on cost-type contracts for critical R&D 
work, such as planetary science and exploration missions, systems 
development operation support in physical engineering, and life 
sciences. In the early 1980s, there was a push towards fixed-price 
contracts for R&D to address failed major programs, cost overruns. But 
ultimately Congress passed legislation requiring a secretarial approval 
for contracts over $25 million. DOD regulations preclude award of a 
fixed-price contract for a development program unless the level of 
program risk permits realistic pricing and the use of a fixed-price 
type contract allows an equitable and sensible allocation of program 
risk between the government and the contractor.

Madam Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.