---
---

# IRAQ
## `0149c346556443ec9af0c048bb6c5ec8`
`Mr. CORNYN — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, the majority leader this morning said 
within my hearing that there is no support for the surge. I don't know 
why he would say that because, in fact, not only have Members of this 
Senate unanimously supported, through the confirmation hearing of GEN 
David Petreaus, one of the people who certainly will be instrumental in 
executing that surge, but that is what we have been debating for these 
last weeks, indeed, months: what the new plan should be in Iraq, to 
deal with what is, obviously, an unacceptable status quo.

I am tempted to wonder out loud if, rather than talking about issues 
that really matter--such as the issue that the Senator from New 
Hampshire has asked for a vote on but been denied, whether we will 
support our troops and refuse to cut off funding while we send them in 
harm's way--we are seeing a bunch of spin doctoring going on.

But when the majority leader says there is no support for the surge, 
I would simply disagree because, in fact, at least one of the 
amendments that has been offered that we have been denied an 
opportunity to vote on, as the majority leader has done what he is 
entitled to do, which is to move on to other subjects and to set the 
Senate agenda, one of those amendments would, in fact, support General 
Petreaus and the plan he has taken upon himself to execute in Iraq that 
we are sending, over a period of time, additional reinforcements to 
secure Baghdad.

So there is substantial support for this plan. The problem is, I am 
tempted to believe there are some who have simply given up, who don't 
believe there is any chance of success in Iraq. The problem is, those 
who have expressed such defeatism, who in this contest of wills say we 
simply lost ours, have not talked one bit about the consequences of 
giving up, the huge humanitarian crisis that would occur, the ethnic 
cleansing that would occur, the fact that another failed state in the 
Middle East, as in Afghanistan before it, could serve as a launching 
pad for recruiting and training and exporting of terrorist attacks.

Standing here and suggesting that defeat is something we will accept 
is, to my view, not a responsible position to take.

So I disagree with those who simply say we have no chance to turn 
things around. There are those who say ad nauseam that there is ''no 
military solution in Iraq.'' I would commend to them an article that 
was written by Victor Davis Hanson that is entitled ''Give Petraeus a 
Chance.'' Mr. Hanson says:



 . . . in fact, only a military blow to the insurgency will 


 allow the necessary window for the government to gain time, 


 trust, and confidence to press ahead with reform and 


 services.


So, as General Petraeus said, we are engaged in a test of wills. How 
could it possibly be that we have lost our own will to protect 
America's national security, to prevent a regional conflict that will 
inevitably, if it occurs, cost us more in treasure and blood? How is it 
that America could possibly have lost its will?

I think the Senator from New Hampshire made a good point a moment ago 
when he said the reason why the majority leader has now taken us off of 
this issue--which, again, is his sole prerogative as majority leader; 
that is the power a majority leader has--that the reason we have not 
been given a chance to vote on the Gregg amendment that says we will 
not cut off funds, we will not fail to support our troops on the 
mission they have volunteered to undertake, and which we have sent them 
on--the real reason, as the Washington Post reported, Senator Gregg's 
amendment was not allowed to be voted on is because his amendment is 
likely the ''only measure that could attract 60 votes.''

The USA Today said the majority leader opposed allowing a vote on the 
amendment because it could have resulted in a situation where the 
Senate would have been on record opposing cuts in funding for the 
troops but not the President's policy.

I think it is absolutely imperative--whether it is today or tomorrow 
or next week or next month, or all of the above--we make it very clear 
we will not ever cut off our support for the men and women who have 
undertaken this dangerous mission.



When I went out to Walter Reed on Monday to visit some of the injured 
veterans of the Iraq conflict, I could not help but be struck by the 
sort of surreality of that. Here are young men and women who have lost 
limbs, and many, unfortunately, have lost their lives volunteering to 
protect us and to bring stability to the Middle East and to allow the 
Iraqis a better life. They have risked it all, and some have paid that 
ultimate sacrifice. Yet here in the Senate----