---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `014b6a60de7d224251f1ae513ed9b4be`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 22 January 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Ross very much. It is 
always a pleasure to be on the floor with you and my other colleagues 
in the Blue Dog Coalition.

I would like to maybe start just responding to what we are doing so 
that we can set the stage properly for the American people who are 
watching to understand why we are doing this and the important 
confirmation that we have for doing it that is embedded deep in the 
Constitution of the United States.

The question on what role does Congress have in this has been put 
before pundits and before commentators, news articles once the 
President made his statement about the surge, and I, too, want to go on 
record as saying that I oppose this surge, almost exclusively because 
of the strain that it is placing on our military, which is already 
overstrained, and taking our young men and women and not only just 
putting them in harm's way, but placing them in the cross-hairs of a 
civil war.

But fundamentally, as I mentioned earlier, what this legislation is 
that we are here to bring some transparency and to bring some 
understanding of how the taxpayers' money is being spent is embedded, 
as I said early, deep into the Constitution.

Now, I want everybody to understand that when we put forward this 
bill, we are not putting it forward based upon what we feel like today. 
We are putting this forward so that we can be responsive to the job 
that we were created to do.

In Article I in Section 8 of the Constitution, it states clearly, 
when that question was put to James Madison and to Alexander Hamilton 
at the beginning of the formation of the Continental Army, the fight 
for the freedom of this country at the very beginning, the question was 
this: Who has the authority to declare war; who has the authority to 
raise and support our military? Here is what it says in Article I, 
Section 8, that was written well over 200 years ago.

Article I, Section 8, gives Congress, not the White House, not the 
executive branch, not the President, it says clearly it gives Congress 
the power to ''raise and support armies.'' Those words are in there. In 
other words, it gives Congress the exclusive power to appropriate the 
funds for war and then to determine the manner in which those funds are 
handled and used.

That is what undergirds our resolution that we are putting forth as 
Blue Dogs and as Democrats and as Republicans, because I believe that 
we will get bipartisan support for standing up and finally allowing 
this Congress to do what the Founding Fathers put us here to do.

Just for a moment, our war in Iraq has been prosecuted at a 
tremendous cost to our Nation, a tremendous cost in terms of especially 
our soldiers' lives, and we cannot thank our soldiers enough for the 
sacrifice that they have given, but also the strain that it has placed 
on their families through repeated and increasingly hefty deployments, 
wear and tear on our equipment and, of course, the taxpayers' money.

That is what the Founding Fathers said when they said raise and 
support our Army. They just did not say tax the money. It did not say 
that. It said raise and support, which means put your arms around it 
and make sure you take care of your Army.

I will tell you, up to this point this Congress has not done so. The 
strain on our military is extraordinary. Our service members, as we 
know, are all volunteers. They and their families are more than willing 
to sacrifice, as they have and as they will continue to do, for the 
good of our Nation, and the American public at large is also willing to 
allow its tax dollars to be spent on a worthy cause. However, we in 
Congress owe it to the whole country to make sure that our service 
members are not sacrificing needlessly in Iraq and Afghanistan, and 
that tax money is not being squandered.

The American public and Members of Congress have largely not been 
aware of exactly where the money is going, where the funding that we 
are providing has been going, and there is widespread reports of 
contractor fraud. There is bribery, there is waste, there is theft of 
reconstruction funds for the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the 
reason it has been is because we have not fulfilled Article I in 
Section 8 which gives Congress the power to raise and support our 
armies and determine how this money is being spent, because this 
Congress, up to now, has rolled over and given this President 
everything he asked for without asking the questions because they have 
allowed him to use the emergency supplemental funding process.

For those in America and those on C-SPAN, what that means is that 
that is a type of funding that prohibits us in Congress from doing 
exactly what the Founding Fathers said we must do in Article I, Section 
8, of the Constitution, and that is to raise and support armies and 
determine how this money is being spent.

It is because this administration has used the dubious practice of 
emergency supplementals to fund the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan 
away from congressional oversight, that is why we have had fraud.

That is why we have had bribery. Emergency supplementals do not go 
through the normal budgeting and appropriations cycle.

The administration has also not been forthcoming in providing the 
detail as to what specifically the funds in the supplemental budget 
request is being used for, and as a result, Members of Congress 
typically have not had the opportunity to scrutinize the request 
thoroughly. Supplementals are considered on an expedited basis and 
basically a sight unseen.

That is why what the Blue Dogs are doing with our resolution is so 
important. It pulls the covers off and it says let the Congress do the 
job that the Founding Fathers put us here to do.

One more point I want to make in the Iraq Study Group report that 
came


out, it recognized this problem, and it mentions briefly the issue of 
budgeting for Operation Iraqi Freedom, and specifically they 
recommended that funding be placed back in the regular budget process, 
away from the supplemental, saying that this should be done to increase 
transparency and accountability. The Blue Dogs are taking that 
recommendation and doing with it what was recommended, and for those of 
you that have that report, you might find that recommendation on page 
59 and 60. It is recommendation 72.

So, to correct this problem, we in the Blue Dog Coalition are 
introducing this bill. As Mr. Ross said, we will be doing it later this 
week. This bill will allow the Members of Congress the time and the 
information required to provide proper oversight of defense spending 
and contracting, and it will allow us the time to apply the new PAYGO 
rules recently passed by the House of Representatives, and, most 
importantly, it will allow the American people, that is what this 
election was about, it was about this country and this country taking 
this country back and putting into practice those things that the 
Founding Fathers gave us to do, and in the process the American people 
will become more fully educated on the true costs of this war and the 
sacrifices they are making and make sure that this money goes where it 
is supposed to go, and will hopefully, prayerfully bring our sons and 
daughters, our husbands and our wives, our fathers and our mothers back 
home safe as soon as we possibly can and end this war.