---
---

# NO TROOP ESCALATION IN AFGHANISTAN
## `0154621c091b2d79d88cde43e8f8c993`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 29 September 2009`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, President Obama will soon decide whether 
to significantly escalate the number of U.S. troops deployed to 
Afghanistan. I urge him to exercise extreme caution and not increase 
America's military footprint in Afghanistan.

I was in Afghanistan right after the elections. Everyone admits there 
was massive fraud and that corruption is widespread in the government. 
Do we really expect to achieve long-term sustainable development in 
Afghanistan when the people have no confidence in their leaders? Can we 
develop and train a credible Afghanistan security force when many of 
its leaders are allied with warlords and drug lords?

Last Friday, 57 bipartisan Members of Congress sent a letter to the 
President asking him not to increase the number of U.S. combat troops 
in Afghanistan in the absence of a well-defined military exit strategy. 
If we're going to send our men and women to fight and die in 
Afghanistan for a corrupt and fraudulent government, then at least tell 
us when they will be able to come home.

















Congress of the United States,
















 Washington, DC, September 25, 2009.


 Hon. Barack Obama,


 President of the United States, The White House, Pennsylvania 




 Avenue, NW, Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. President: As you consider the latest assessment 


 of U.S. military engagement in Afghanistan by General Stanley 


 A. McChrystal, we urge you to reject any recommendation to 


 increase the number of combat troops there, particularly in 


 the absence of a well-defined military exit strategy.



 We have enormous confidence in the ability of the U.S. 


 military, but we question the effectiveness of committing our 


 troops to a prolonged counterinsurgency war that could last 


 ten years or more, involve hundreds of thousands of troops, 


 and impose huge financial costs on taxpayers already saddled 


 with trillions of dollars of government debt.



 According to General Charles Krulak (retired), the 31st 


 Commandant of the Marine Corps, the current strategy of 


 protecting the people of Afghanistan with U.S. forces would 


 require an escalation of several hundred thousand additional 


 troops. He warns that our military has already been 


 overburdened: ''Not only are our troops being run ragged but, 


 equally important and totally off most people's radar 


 screens, our equipment is being run ragged.'' It is unlikely 


 that our NATO allies will be able to sustain the political 


 support necessary for continuing such a mission placing even 


 more of a burden on American forces and the American people.



 2009 is already the deadliest year for U.S. forces since 


 the war began eight years ago. Fifty-one of the seven hundred 


 and thirty-eight U.S. soldiers who have lost their lives in 


 Afghanistan were killed last month alone.



 The national Afghanistan election that U.S. Ambassador Karl 


 Eikenberry hoped would lead to a ''renewal of trust of the 


 Afghan people for their government'' was a disaster and will 


 almost certainly have the opposite effect. The official 


 Electoral Complaints Commission in Afghanistan has announced 


 that is has found ''clear and convincing evidence of fraud.'' 


 A government already mired in allegations of widespread fraud 


 and incompetence is now facing serious charges and compelling 


 evidence that it has attempted to steal the national 


 election.



 A February 2009 ABC/BBC/ARD poll found that only 18 percent 


 of Afghans support increasing the number of U.S. troops in 


 their country. This should come as no surprise. Historically, 


 Afghans have always forcefully resisted the presence of 


 foreign military forces, be they British, Soviet or American. 


 The presence of our forces strengthens the hand of Taliban 


 recruiters. Indeed, an independent analysis early this year 


 by the Carnegie Institute concluded that the presence of 


 foreign troops is probably the single most important factor 


 in the resurgence of the Taliban.



 We support your administration's declared goals of 


 defeating Al Qaeda and reducing the global terrorist threat. 


 But, we believe that adding even more U.S. troops to the 


 military escalation that your administration ordered in March 


 would be counterproductive. We urge you to consider and 


 pursue the full range of alternative options including 


 applying the lessons of the Cold War where we isolate and 


 contain those who pose a threat to our national security.



 Mr. President, the last thing that our nation needs as it 


 struggles with the pain of a severe economic crisis and a 


 mountain of debt is another military quagmire. We believe 


 that this is why recent polls consistently show that a 


 majority of Americans are opposed to a military escalation in 


 Afghanistan. We urge you to reject any recommendation for a 


 further escalation of U.S. military forces there.





 Sincerely,




 James P. McGovern, Walter Jones, Ron Paul, Ed Whitfield, 





 Neil Abercrombie, Jim McDermott, Pete Stark, Bruce 





 Braley, Phil Hare, Raul Grijalva, Lynn Woolsey, Lloyd 





 Doggett, Bob Filner, John Olver, Jose Serrano, Barbara 





 Lee, Jerry Costello, Ben Ray Lujan, Alan Grayson, Peter 





 Welch.




 Kurt Schrader, Tammy Baldwin, Ed Pastor, Yvette Clarke, 





 Sheila Jackson Lee, John Lewis, Carolyn B. Maloney, 





 Richard Neal, Diane Watson, John Conyers, Jr., Dennis 





 Kucinich, Tim Johnson (IL), Steve Cohen, Keith Ellison, 





 Donna Edwards, Laura Richardson, Michael Honda, Jan 





 Schakowsky, Daniel Maffei, Steve Kagen.




 Michael Capuano, Sam Farr, Chellie Pingree, Luis 





 Gutierrez, Maurice Hinchey, Maxine Waters, Mazie 





 Hirono, Jared Polis, Roscoe Bartlett, John J. Duncan, 





 Jr., Dana Rohrabacher, Mike Michaud, Earl Blumenauer, 





 Rush Holt, Mike Quigley, Peter DeFazio, Jerrold Nadler.
