---
---

# None
## `016058f77ff59ca9e1fcce47c2af17bd`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 15 December 2009`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. I yield myself 3 minutes.

This legislation obstructs the Obama administration's ongoing 
negotiations with Iran, amounts to economic warfare against the Iranian 
people, and brings us closer to an unnecessary military confrontation. 
I would like to delineate point by point the objections to this bill.

First of all, I agree with Mr. Paul that the bill is opposed to our 
national security. I have a letter here, as Mr. Blumenauer submitted to 
the Record, from the Deputy Secretary of State which points out the 
''serious substantive concerns of the administration, including the 
lack of flexibility, inefficient monetary thresholds and penalty 
levels, and blacklisting that could cause unintended foreign policy 
consequences.'' This letter is from the Obama administration, December 
11, 2009. I would like it be included in the Record.

Second, I would like to include an article from the National Journal 
Online, dated November 2, 2009, in the record of debate. In this 
article, it points out that a gas shortage will be created in Iran, 
that Iran subsidizes its gasoline,


and that the regime wants to shrink the program. So here the U.S. will 
be creating the gas shortage, and the regime, which wanted to shrink 
the program, is going to blame the U.S.

Third, the Revolutionary Guard has already been able to build its 
coffers by being able to sell things on the black market. It's widely 
understood that these sanctions would put the Revolutionary Guard in a 
position where they can make more money selling oil on the black 
market.

Number 4, this proposal would throw energy politics of the region 
into chaos, and the broader geopolitical landscape is thrown into 
chaos. Russia, Venezuela, and our European allies all come into play in 
ways at odds with stated U.S. policies.

Number 5, it undermines our diplomacy. It isolates us from our 
allies. It isolates us from our trading partners.

Number 6, it undercuts international energy companies who work in a 
back-channel role to try to help us with our diplomacy.

Number 7, it undermines democracy in Iran. All of us have seen those 
pictures. They have been all over the TV and the Internet in the last 
few months about a growing democratic movement in Iran. This sanction 
will force all people to close around the Iran's leadership. It will 
strengthen the hard-liners and will undermine democracy.

Next, it will make the U.S. presence in Iraq, Afghanistan, and 
Pakistan even more dangerous for our troops.

Number 9, it's a path to military escalation, and I will be 
discussing that later.

















The Deputy Secretary of State,



















Washington, December 11, 2009.


 Hon. John F. Kerry,


 Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations, U.S. Senate.



 Dear Mr. Chairman: I wanted to follow up on our 


 conversations regarding Iran, and possible sanctions 


 legislation to be taken up by the Senate (S. 2799). We share 


 Congress's concerns on Iran and its nuclear program, and the 


 need to take decisive action. One of the top national 


 security priorities for the Obama Administration is to deny 


 Iran a nuclear weapons capability. As we discussed, we are 


 pursuing this objective through a dual track strategy of 


 engagement and pressure; and we are engaged in intensive 


 multilateral efforts to develop pressure track measures now. 


 It is in the spirit of these shared objectives that I write 


 to express my concern about the timing and content of this 


 legislation.



 As I testified before the Congress in October, it is our 


 hope that any legislative initiative would preserve and 


 maximize the President's flexibility, secure greater 


 cooperation from our partners in taking effective action, and 


 ultimately facilitate a change in Iranian policies. However, 


 we are entering a critical period of intense diplomacy to 


 impose significant international pressure on Iran. This 


 requires that we keep the focus on Iran. At this juncture, I 


 am concerned that this legislation, it its current form, 


 might weaken rather than strengthen international unity and 


 support for our efforts. In addition to the timing, we have 


 serious substantive concerns, including the lack of 


 flexibility, inefficient monetary thresholds and penalty 


 levels, and blacklisting that could cause unintended foreign 


 policy consequences.



 I have asked Department staff to prepare for and discuss 


 with your staff revisions that could address these concerns 


 on timing and content. I am hopeful that we can work together 


 to achieve our common goals.



 I hope that consideration of this bill could be delayed to 


 the new year so as not to undermine the Administration's 


 diplomacy at this critical juncture. I look forward to 


 working together to achieve our common goals, and I will stay 


 in close contact with you as our diplomatic efforts proceed.





 Sincerely,


 James B. Steinberg.