# None
## `01649b25ea035145721b63251a6d03ad`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, our Nation depends on our system of 
air travel to do business, to visit family and friends, to connect us 
with the world. We depend on the Federal Government to keep an eye on 
that system and to make sure air travel is as safe as humanly possible. 
But over the last 7 years, the American people's trust in the Federal 
Aviation Administration has come crashing down. When we learned that 
the FAA had allowed hundreds of flights on planes with cracks in them, 
that was just the latest abuse of our trust.

It seems as if we are finding new regulatory problems in American 
aviation every day. With every new headline and every whistleblower who 
comes forward, we learn that something else has gone wrong--something 
that could inconvenience us, at best and, at worst, claim human lives. 
Meanwhile, the FAA is enveloped in a cloud of cronyism and neglect. 
Whether we are


talking about managing delays, maintaining safety, or managing its 
employee relations, the FAA has constantly let us all down and put us 
all at risk.

Last month, we found out that Southwest Airlines was allowing dozens 
of planes to take off without inspection. We found out American 
Airlines was flying planes for weeks that had potentially dangerous 
wiring problems. When the news got out, thousands of Americans saw 
their flights canceled while airlines scrambled to comply with safety 
guidelines they should have been following all along.

Why did it take so long for the FAA to notice?

A few weeks ago, one FAA employee testified before Congress that when 
he found out these planes were flying with cracks and complained about 
it, Southwest contacted the FAA, and he was removed--removed--from his 
role of overseeing the airline. Other employees who complained were 
encouraged to transfer or removed from their posts.

Now, what is the FAA--the Federal Aviation Administration--supposed 
to be doing? Job 1, it seems to me, is to ensure the safety of the 
flying public. I know they have this dual mission. I have always 
wondered about that dual mission of safety and promoting the industry--
the other mission. But safety is job 1--job 1.

When they take employees who come forward and say: Look, there are 
cracks, maybe we should not let this airplane take off, or a series of 
airplanes take off, and because the company objects, it gets them 
hauled off of the job, or when others come forth and they are told: 
Well, maybe you should consider transferring, it simply undermines the 
very essence of what is job 1. The message that was sent is: If you are 
an inspector, don't do your job too well or you will lose it.

Those are not the only safety concerns. The people of my home State 
of New Jersey have reason to be worried about safety at our airports. 
We just learned that Teterboro Airport, which is one of the small but 
one of the busiest airports we have in the region, has one of the 
highest numbers of near-misses in the country. A few months ago, at 
Newark Airport, two planes came within seconds of crashing into each 
other. There was a similar incident in December and three near-misses 
last May. How many serious close calls do we have to live through 
before the FAA takes this problem seriously?

Not only is the FAA failing to do due diligence on behalf of the 
people in the air, they have risked the well-being of people on the 
ground as well.

A while back, the FAA decided to redesign the airspace around some 
New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania airports. Now, I have been a big 
supporter of airspace redesign since when I was first in the House on 
the Transportation Committee. We live in the most congested airspace in 
the Nation. We are in somewhat of a straitjacket. But the redesign 
should have been done in such a way that not only did we do something 
about delays, which this redesign does not do very much about, but it 
should not have the pounding decibels of noise upon communities that 
this new redesign does.

They decided to change the flightpaths--and it is fair to do that 
every now and then--but they forgot one thing: They forgot to listen to 
the people who are going to be flown over. When they rearranged the 
flightpaths, the FAA simply did not account for air noise and how it 
affects people's lives. I am not talking about simply being bothered by 
a little noise. I am talking about the pounding and pounding and 
pounding of decibel levels that actually affect hearing.

Some of the communities have populations that are least likely to be 
able to be in a position to do something about it. They forgot about 
people such as Ray Bennett, who lives in Westville, NJ. He has lived 
there for nearly 40 years. In all those years, he could not remember a 
single plane flying directly overhead, especially at low altitudes. 
Now, since the FAA rushed to implement this plan, not only is there 
noise, but it is noise that causes his windows to vibrate and keeps him 
up at night. Imagine that. In the comfort of your own home, in a place 
where you should be able to find your own peace and quiet with your 
family, one day the Government decides to turn the volume level way up 
by running jet planes over your house regularly. Ray has seriously 
thought about moving out of his home, and it is hard to blame him. This 
is not a case of one or two isolated households. Planes are now flying 
directly over the center of the city of Elizabeth, NJ, affecting tens 
of thousands of people.

The effects go beyond annoyance. It can cost people money by reducing 
property values. In the midst of a nationwide housing crisis, in a time 
when far too many New Jerseyans are facing foreclosure, skyrocketing 
electricity and home heating costs, and the specter of $4 per gallon 
gasoline, the last thing they need is for air noise to bring down their 
property values.

It is almost no wonder that we are seeing this agency become so out 
of touch, considering how toxic the working environment there has been. 
In addition to the FAA's questionable safety record, there is also the 
issue of its hostile relationship with its own employees. Experienced 
air traffic controllers are leaving their jobs at an alarming rate, and 
the FAA is struggling to attract, train, and keep new ones. But instead 
of trying to work with the unions to try to finally implement a 
contract, they fan the flames by publicly suggesting that if the 
controllers do not like working for the FAA, they should reconsider 
their line of work. With this kind of working environment, it is no 
wonder we have a shortage of experienced controllers working to keep 
our skies safe.

We are talking about increasingly--and I fly, obviously, quite a bit, 
certainly to my home State of New Jersey through Newark International. 
But in the whole region, and across the country, where we have 
controllers--trainees, I should say. They are still not fully 
controllers. It takes about 5 years to fully train a controller. 
Trainees can only do part of the segment necessary, whether it be on 
takeoffs, whether it be on landings, or whether it be about controlling 
the airspace, as delays take place and aircraft are made to be put in 
holding patterns.

So imagine you and your family are up in an airplane and you are 
dealing with, increasingly, individuals who do not have the full 
certification to do all of these elements together, which is what we 
would like to see--for them to have the expertise. Because we can spend 
all the money in the world--and I appreciate the bill does move us 
forward in modernization and technology, and that is critically 
important--but at the end of the day, we can have the best technology 
in the world, but if, in fact, we do not have the human capital to make 
that technology work successfully, then, in fact, we have failed. That 
human capital happens to be the air traffic controllers. At the end of 
the day, all the technology in the world will be used by those 
individuals. Human capital in this regard is incredibly important. The 
FAA has disdain for them. I believe they are the critical nexus to the 
safety of the flying public. So you are seeing a system that is on a 
path to becoming slower and less safe because experienced personnel are 
colliding with management.

When you have problems that are so widespread and an institutional 
culture that shows no sense of urgency, it is not just about one 
employee or another, it is about a lack of leadership. That is why 
Senator Lautenberg, my colleague from New Jersey, and I have placed a 
hold on the nomination of Robert Sturgell as the FAA Administrator, and 
we will continue the hold until the FAA truly addresses these and other 
concerns.

We have no choice but to use every tool at our disposal to make this 
unresponsive bureaucracy do what is right for the well-being of the 
American public. If the public's concerns are not being addressed at 
the FAA, we will have to make sure they are addressed in Congress.

Which brings me to this bill. We have an opportunity--and I salute 
Senator Rockefeller and the members of the Commerce Committee who have 
worked with him to bring this bill to the floor--we have a tremendous 
opportunity with this authorization bill to set some things right.

This bill makes smart investments to make air traffic safer. It 
upgrades our aging airport infrastructure.


The bill improves the oversight of airlines and the FAA. This 
legislation makes great strides in making air travel safer not only in 
the skies, but on the runways.



But I also believe the base bill can have some improvements, so at 
the appropriate time--I want to talk about a few of them now--I will be 
offering some amendments to it. The first is to strengthen the 
provision with reference to the revolving door between the FAA and the 
airline industry and end the cozy relationship between safety 
inspectors and the airline industry. We have to have faith and 
confidence in the people who are critical to making sure that when we 
fly, we are flying in airplanes that are as safe as safe can be; that 
they are not compromised. I appreciate what the committee did in the 
bill, but I think there are some elements of it that can be 
strengthened.

The second amendment will require the FAA to monitor the air noise 
impacts of the air space redesign and simply provide that data to the 
public. I don't even understand why the FAA has no intention--no 
intention whatsoever--of monitoring air noise as a result of the 
redesign. I think the public has a right to know what health 
consequences there are in that redesign, and that is a minimal--a 
minimal--amount of information and transparency that we should be 
allowing the flying public to have and the communities that are 
affected to know.

The third will help local communities coordinate with nearby airports 
to plan compatible land use and mitigate air noise and to receive 
grants from the FAA to do so. This is incredibly important. There are 
several communities, I am sure, across the Nation, but in our State in 
the city of Elizabeth, which is the third largest city in the State, it 
is pounded, pounded, pounded away--schools have actually held a press 
conference at one of the schools. I don't know how students learn at 
that school, because all you hear is one constant drone of jet noise. I 
can imagine a teacher in the classroom having to overcome that 
challenge day in and day out to keep the attention of the students. We 
should have the ability to make sure that in fact there is mitigation 
money for that noise, and we look forward to being able to offer that.

The last amendment we are considering is to address the growing 
problem of low fuel landings. We have had a whole host of low fuel 
landings at Newark International. That means you are sitting on an 
airplane and because the industry is trying to save money, they have 
less fuel in the aircraft and now, because you have been put in delays 
and holding patterns, it gets pretty low, maybe dangerously low. We 
want to know what is the level of that and what is the reporting of 
that so we can make judgments--and certainly so the FAA can make 
judgments--along the way. We think that is incredibly important.

Finally, one of the worst casualties of the Bush administration is 
how much trust the public has lost in their Government. We lost trust 
when the administration flew us into Iraq on the wings of a lie. We 
lost trust when millions of dollars in tax breaks were given to those 
with million-dollar bank accounts while the middle class saw their 
economic situation get worse. And at the very least, at the very least, 
we should be able to trust our Government to keep us safe when we take 
to the skies. That is the core mission of the Federal Aviation 
Administration. It is time for them to put that mission ahead of the 
financial interests of the industry they regulate. It is time for them 
to put that mission and our safety first. This bill goes an enormous 
way to making that happen.

With that, I yield the floor.