---
---

# WAR IS UGLY BUT TYRANNY IS UGLIER
## `0169e1e45377a9e8de8a2ae18a193542`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman. As usual, 
he's always more kind than he should be.

Mr. Speaker, today, as we embrace the grave responsibility of 
discussing an issue that will have a profound impact on future American 
generations, it seems very appropriate to remind ourselves of the ideal 
that gave birth to the United States in the very first place. We hold 
these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal and 
endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among 
these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.

It puts us all on even ground, Mr. Speaker, but, whether we realize 
it or not, most of the important discussions in this Chamber, including 
the one in this moment, center around whether we still believe those 
words.

In these hours, America finds herself at war with an inexpressibly 
dangerous ideology that is the antithesis of those words and everything 
that is the American ideal. What concerns me most, Mr. Speaker, is that 
this is a war between an ideology that is committed to the death and 
destruction of freedom and the subjugation of the entire world and is 
one waged against the world's free people who still remain primarily 
asleep.

Mr. Speaker, this ideological war did not begin on 9/11. It began 
many years ago when certain Muslim extremists embraced a divergent 
Islamist dogma that dictates that all infidels must die. It was called 
then, as it should be now, Jihad.

This is the same Jihadist ideology that murdered Israeli athletes in 
1972; that took American hostages in Iran; that murdered Marines in 
their barracks in 1983; that bombed the World Trade Center in 1993, 
Riyadh in 1995, the Khobar towers in 1996, the embassy in 1998, the 
U.S.S. Cole in 2000; and that brutally murdered scores of little 
children on their opening day of school in Beslan, Russia. And then, 
Mr. Speaker, this same dark ideology massacred nearly 3,000 Americans 
on September 11.

The ideology of Islamist Jihad leads to the practice of decapitating 
humanitarians with hacksaws on television while the victims scream for 
mercy. Just last month, one of those most recent videos on the Internet 
showed a member of the Taliban beheading a man accused of spying. That 
member of the Taliban was 12 years old.

Mr. Speaker, that is a wake-up call to this planet if we will only 
listen. This same hatred causes Islamic Jihadists to cowardly hide 
behind women and children while launching rockets deliberately 
targeting innocent civilians, and continually breaking treaties of 
peace, and forcing children to blow themselves to pieces to effect the 
murder of other innocents, and all this while their mothers scream for 
joy.

As we anticipate future actions of the Jihadists, we should consider, 
as Mr. Wamp has so eloquently said earlier today, the words of the 
terrorists themselves. And at the risk of repeating some of the things 
that Congressman Wamp said, I believe that these kinds of words are so 
important for America and for the people in this body to hear.

Al Qaeda's Al-Zawahiri said this. He said, ''The Jihad movement is 
growing and rising. It reached its peak with the two blessed raids on 
New York and Washington. And now it is waging a great heroic battle in 
Iraq, Afghanistan, Palestine, and even within the Crusaders' own 
homes.''

Al-Manar said on BBC, ''Let the entire world hear me. Our hostility 
to the Great Satan, America, is absolute. Regardless of how the world 
has changed after 11 September, Death to America will remain our 
reverberating and powerful slogan: Death to America.''

Al-Zarqawi said this of America's leaders, ''They are aware that if 
the Islamic giant wakes up it will not be satisfied with less than the 
gates of Rome, Washington, Paris, and London.''



Al-Muhajir, Osama bin Laden's latest lieutenant in Iraq, said this. 
He said, ''The fire has not and will not be put out and our swords, 
which have been colored with your blood, are thirsty for more of your 
rotting heads.''

Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah, said this, ''We have 
discovered how to hit the Jews where they are the most vulnerable. The 
Jews love life, so that is what we shall take away from them. We are 
going to win because they love life and we love death.''

Mr. Speaker, then we hear Democrats in this body say things like, 
''The savagery of the terrorists is not relevant,'' or even the most 
senior Democrat in this House is quoted as saying, ''I don't take sides 
for or against Hezbollah, or for or against Israel.'' The senior 
Democrat in the other body said, ''This war is lost.''

Mr. Speaker, that kind of blind relativism that deliberately ignores 
all truth and equates merciless terrorism with free nations defending 
themselves and their innocent citizens is more dangerous to humanity 
than terrorism itself, and it is proof that liberals completely 
misunderstand the enemy that we face.

Osama bin Laden's deputy, Al-Zawahiri, said this. He made it clear in 
his book, Knights Under the Prophet's Banner, al Qaeda's most important 
short-term strategic goal is to seize control of a state, or part of a 
state, somewhere in the Muslim world. He wrote, ''Confronting the 
enemies of Islam and launching Jihad against them require a Muslim 
authority, established on Muslim land. Without achieving this goal, our 
actions will mean nothing.''

For God's sake, I hope we're listening to people like that. Mr. 
Speaker, such a Jihadist state would be the ideal launching pad for 
future attacks on the West.

Bin Laden himself has stated, ''The whole world is watching this war 
and the two adversaries. It's either victory and glory, or misery and 
humiliation.''

Mr. Speaker, the terrorists regard Iraq as their central front in 
their war against humanity; and if we're to understand our enemy and 
this war, we must recognize Iraq as the central front in our war 
against Jihad. Our courageous and noble soldiers understand that, and 
our enemy certainly understands that.

Osama bin Laden himself said, ''The most important and serious issue 
today for the whole world is this Third World War. It is raging in the 
land of the two rivers, Iraq. The world's millstone and pillar is in 
Baghdad, the capital of the caliphate.''

Mr. Speaker, if Democrats are correct that this struggle in Iraq is 
not crucial to winning the war against Islamist Jihad, then for God's 
sake I wish they would explain that to the terrorists, because they 
don't understand it.

Brink Lindsey put this all succinctly. He said, ''Here is the grim 
truth: We are only one act of madness away from a social cataclysm 
unlike anything our country has ever known. After a handful of such 
acts, who knows what kind of civilizational breakdown might be in 
store?''

Mr. Speaker, we simply cannot deny that we are fighting a war against 
an insidiously dangerous and evil ideology that is bent on the 
destruction of the Western World, and they would like nothing better 
than to decapitate this country by detonating a nuclear blast 100 yards 
from here. To allow Jihadists to declare victory in Iraq will serve 
only to hasten such a day.

The free nations of the world once had opportunity to address the 
insidious rise of the Nazi ideology in its formative years when it 
could have been dispatched without great cost. But they delayed, and 
the result was atomic bombs falling on cities in the world, 50 million 
people dead worldwide, and the swastika's shadow nearly plunging the 
planet into Cimmerian night.

Mr. Speaker, Jihadists believe they have a critical advantage over 
the free world. They believe their will is stronger than ours and that 
they need only to persevere; and, Mr. Speaker, the words of neutrality 
and retreat have only encouraged them in that belief.

We must realize that this is a war that is fundamentally a battle 
between good and evil, between light and darkness, between individual 
freedom and totalitarian repression; and we must realize that our enemy 
is absolutely blinded with an absolute hate for all the Western World.

They also recognize that America is the flagship of human freedom, 
and if America allows terrorists to conquer us both on the battlefield 
and in our will to fight the result will be that humanity will be left 
to face a future that is dark beyond expression.

Mr. Speaker, I think that probably Ronald Reagan could close this in 
the best way. He said to our soldiers who nobly fought in Vietnam, 
''Let us tell those who fought in that war that we will never again ask 
young men to fight and possibly die in a war our government is afraid 
to win.''

And I'm afraid sometimes that we forget the heroism of the past. So 
let me just close with a prayer that one of our great Presidents, 
Franklin Roosevelt, said many years ago, as today we mark the 63rd 
anniversary of the D-Day invasion to liberate Europe from Hitler's 
fascism. U.S. forces alone sustained over 6,500 casualties in that 1 
day, twice what we've endured in 5 years in Iraq. Knowing the gravity 
of the operation, Franklin Roosevelt, one of the Nation's most liberal 
Presidents, said and allow me to close in those words:

''Almighty God: Our sons, pride of our Nation, this day have set upon 
a mighty endeavor, a struggle to preserve our republic, our religion, 
and our civilization, and to set free a suffering humanity. They fight 
not for the lust of conquest. They fight to end conquest. They fight to 
liberate. They fight to let justice arise, and tolerance and goodwill 
among all Thy people. They yearn but for the end of battle, for their 
return to the haven of home. Some will never return. Embrace these, 
Father, and receive them, Thy heroic servants, into Thy kingdom. And 
for us at home, fathers, mothers, children, wives, sisters, and 
brothers of brave men overseas, help us, Almighty God, to rededicate 
ourselves in renewed faith in Thee in this hour of great sacrifice. 
And, O Lord, give us faith. Give us faith in Thee; faith in our sons; 
faith in each other; faith in our united crusade. Thy will be done, 
Almighty God. Amen.''