# None
## `0172519940c11fdf31ee3afcc0983651`
`Mr. GINGREY â€” 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Well, I thank the gentleman from Colorado for being with 
us. And I hope that if time permits, he can remain with us for some of 
the additional time. I would be happy to yield to him if you'll just 
let me know. But, again, he is a member of the House Armed Services 
Committee, and indeed, he knows of what he speaks.

Mr. Speaker, and my colleagues, the testimony today that went on with 
the Senate Armed Services Committee was very telling. We are all busy 
on this side of the Capitol with committee meetings and other 
responsibilities, so you don't have the time to sit there glued to the 
television set and watch every single member ask questions of General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker. But I was able, on occasion, to hear 
some of the dialogue and the exchange. And I want to share just a 
little bit of that, Mr. Speaker, with my colleagues at this time. And 
this poster, this slide that I have, you can reference what I'm talking 
about.

Senator Lindsey Graham, the senior Senator from the great State of 
South Carolina where I spent most of my youth, I live and represent 
Georgia proudly now, but Senator Graham, formerly a Member of this 
body, the House of Representatives, and now serving so well in the 
United States Senate, asked this question of General Petraeus: ''Is it 
fair to say that when Muslims will stand by us and fight against bin 
Laden, his agents and sympathizers, that we're safer? Is it fair to say 
that?''



And General Petraeus's response: ''Absolutely.'' It only took one 
word, my colleagues, ''absolutely,'' we are safer.

And Ambassador Crocker responded this morning in a similar manner, 
and let me give his quote: ''In the little over a year that I have been 
in Iraq, we have seen a significant degradation of al Qaeda's presence 
and its abilities. Al Qaeda is our mortal and strategic enemy. So to 
the extent that al Qaeda's capacities have been lessened in Iraq, and 
they have been significantly lessened, I do believe that makes America 
safer.'' And this is the direct quote from Ambassador Crocker's 
testimony this morning before the Senate Armed Services Committee.

We will get into now the third point that I said, Mr. Speaker, at the 
outset of the hour that I wanted to emphasize, and that's the question 
of is it worth it? Despite the progress that we have talked about 
tonight that General Petraeus told the Senate this morning, there are 
those who would ignore that progress and still as they did last 
September. Maybe it was a more credible argument then. Of course, they 
were making it before the surge had even gotten there, not really 
giving it much of a chance. But today to argue for immediate withdrawal 
and to give up, to snatch defeat literally from the jaws of victory, 
that's basically what they're saying: It's not worth it. It's not worth 
it. It's time to quit. And this is what General Petraeus said this 
morning, another quote, and I share it with my colleagues:

''I do believe it's worth it. I took on the task,'' and just like 
General Petraeus he would say this, ''the privilege of command of 
Multi-National Force Iraq because I do believe that it's worth it and I 
do believe the interests there are of enormous importance, again, to 
our country, not just the people of Iraq and the people of that region, 
and the world.'' That's a quote taken from General Petraeus's testimony 
this morning.

I am pleased at this time, Mr. Speaker, to yield to another one of my 
classmates, the gentleman from Iowa, Representative Steve King. 
Representative King is not only on the Armed Services Committee, but I 
do believe he's on the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And he is 
extremely knowledgeable about foreign affairs, about national defense, 
about so many critical issues. So it's indeed a pleasure to welcome 
this evening another of my classmates, the distinguished gentleman from 
Iowa, Representative King.

