---
---

# THE PROGRESSIVE MESSAGE
## `0178b092cc0e566d4ba66a1cbc9dc351`
`Mr. ELLISON — 4 June 2009`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Good evening, Mr. Speaker. I'm about to grab some boards 
but I will claim the hour, and we'll get started.

Well, Mr. Speaker, welcome to the progressive message. This is the 
hour that the Progressive Caucus comes forward to offer a progressive 
vision for America where we put down markers, and we signal to the 
American people that there is a progressive vision, there is a way 
forward, and that way forward does include principles like generosity, 
like inclusion, like vision, like openness, like fairness, like 
sharing, not a vision of fear, not a vision as, Oh, my goodness, what's 
going to happen, we have to throw someone off the bus, but a vision of 
saying, You know what, we can include people, we can have peace, we can 
have a society where people are treated equally and fairly.

In fact, a few weeks ago we had a Special Order where the premise 
was, why the progressives? And we detailed how important it was to take 
note of the great contributions that progressives have made to America.

So, with that, I just want to introduce the wonderful array of 
leaders we


have with us tonight, and I have to start with the co-chair of the 
Progressive Caucus, the person who's given more 5-minute speeches than 
anybody ever on the issue of peace, including Iraq but not limited to 
Iraq, also Afghanistan, demilitarization, the whole nine, none other 
than our own co-Chair Lynn Woolsey, and I yield to the gentlelady from 
California.