---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `017d68f085f4258c402d266a55137c47`
`Mr. BAYH — 25 January 2008`

---


Mr. BAYH. Madam President, I rise today with a heavy heart and deep 
sense of gratitude to honor the life of a brave soldier from Plymouth, 
IN. LCpl Cameron Babcock, 19 years old, died January 20th at Twentynine 
Palms Marine Base in California. Lance Corporal Babcock was killed as 
the result of a firearms accident in his barracks. Cameron was a 
committed soldier and servant to his country.

Cameron was a 2006 graduate of Plymouth High School and was a gifted 
musician. He played the trumpet in the Big Red Marching Band and was a 
member of the Plymouth High School Advanced Jazz Band. In 2005, he 
competed at the State Jazz Festival in LaPorte with the Advanced Jazz 
Band. He was also a member of the Wind Ensemble, comprised of some of 
the school's top music students. Cameron also played the guitar and 
enjoyed four-wheeling.

After graduation, Cameron fulfilled a lifelong goal by enlisting in 
the Marines, telling his family it was what he had always hoped to do. 
He was promoted to private first class after boot camp and was a 
rifleman in the infantry. With his assignment to Kilo Company, 3rd 
Battalion, 7th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, Cameron served an 
exemplary tour in Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. He was a 
decorated soldier and received numerous awards during his tour in Iraq 
including the National Defense Service Medal, the Iraqi Campaign Medal, 
the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, the Combat Action Ribbon, 
the Sea Service Deployment Ribbon and the Certificate of Commendation.

Cameron was awaiting his second tour of duty in Iraq when he died. He 
is survived by his parents, Jeffery and Ann Smith Babcock; his sisters 
Kailey, Abigail, and Hope Babcock; and his brother, Samuel Babcock. The 
Babcock family resides in Plymouth.

Today, I join Cameron's family and friends in mourning his death. 
While we struggle to bear our sorrow over this loss, we can also take 
pride in the example he set, bravely fighting to make the world a safer 
place. It is his courage and strength of character that people will 
remember when they think of Cameron. Today and always, Cameron will be 
remembered by family members, friends and fellow Hoosiers as a true 
American hero, and we honor the example he set in serving his country.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of LCpl Cameron M. Babcock in the 
Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to this country and for his 
profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. When I think about 
the unfortunate pain that comes with the loss of our heroes, I hope 
that families like Cameron's can find comfort in the words of the 
prophet Isaiah who said, ''He will swallow up death in victory; and the 
Lord God will wipe away tears from off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Cameron.














Major Andrew J. Olmsted 
