---
---

# DISCONTINUING BUSINESS AS USUAL
## `018dae4a875378070078eca54739dd18`
`Mr. CRAIG — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Georgia and the 
Senator from Texas for their leadership. With that leadership comes a 
very clear voice about the problems this current Congress is facing. 
They are problems that are historic in character. I was once in the 
majority. It was the minority who said: We can do better and, 
therefore, we should run the Congress. In the last election, the 
American people listened and they changed the Congress. While I was 
chairing the Veterans' Affairs Committee at that time, we lost the 
Congress--we, the Republicans--by a reality of dropping to 32 percent 
in the minds of Americans as to an effective and responsible Congress. 
The minority played on that. They became the majority. They took over 
the leadership. They made a great deal of promises. Here we are in the 
eleventh and a half hour headed toward the twelfth hour of this session 
of Congress. They have not accomplished it. They have dropped below 11 
percent in favorable rating among the American people.

The American people do want to see us get along. At the same time, 
they want their Government to function in a timely and responsible way. 
That is exactly what this Congress has failed to do.

I come to the floor to speak about two issues specifically. The 
assistant majority leader came to the floor earlier today and asked 
unanimous consent that S. 1233 and S. 1315 be allowed to come to the 
floor under unanimous consent or to come to the floor with debate and 
final passage. The reason he had to do that was before the Thanksgiving 
recess, I came to the floor and objected to the movement of those 
bills. The Senator from Oklahoma also now objects to the movement of 
those bills. I think it is very important that not only does the record 
bear why we objected but the American people clearly understand why we 
are objecting, because these are veterans bills.

These are bills that deal with critical needs of America's veterans. 
I was once chairman and ranking member of the Veterans' Affairs 
Committee, and I am not going to suggest that I need to add credentials 
to my record as supporting America's veterans. My responsibility is to 
make sure the services to our veterans get delivered in a responsible 
and timely way, that the truly needy service-connected and poor veteran 
gets served, and that the needs of those coming in out of Afghanistan 
and Iraq, who then become veterans out of our active service, are met 
in an immediate way. That is the responsibility of this Congress. It is 
not to keep adding and adding and adding new programs that may or may 
not be necessary and adding and adding and adding billions of dollars 
that anyone in service to veterans can say is at best questionable. It 
is for those reasons that I objected to those bills.

Now, let me break down why because there are some very real issues 
here.

S. 1233 is an important piece of legislation that a majority of those 
of us who supported the legislation to begin with agreed to. It is 
called the Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury and Health Programs 
Improvement Act of 2007. Any bill with that title would capture your 
imagination. One of the great concerns we have today is the traumatic 
brain injuries our men and women in service are coming out of Iraq 
with, especially because of the types of bombs that are being used over 
there. Oftentimes, this kind of injury does not show up in a veteran 
until he or she becomes a veteran.

If you look down through the priorities of that bill, you look at 
increased veterans' travel benefits--yes, rural veterans coming to 
veterans centers to be served; a major medical facilities project; 
adding to the expanded services of veterans health care; professional 
scholarship programs; extended time for preferred care; help for low-
income veterans; traumatic brain injury program enhancement; assisted-
living pilot program enhancement--all of those very valuable and very 
meaningful, strongly supported by the Veterans' Affairs Committee and 
strongly supported by this Senate.

But what happened at the last minute was that a Senator on the other 
side added a new program. They said: We are going to allow Priority 8 
veterans to become eligible for the full service of health care under 
the veterans health care system. What is a Priority 8 veteran? A 
Priority 8 veteran is one who has no service-connected disability or 
injury or health care concern. Did they serve? Yes, they served. Did 
they sustain any injury or physical needs as a result of their service? 
No. Are they at the poverty level or below? No. They are above it. And 
in most instances--in fact, in a high percentage of them--through their 
own employment, they have health care.

So for a good number of years, because of costs, we who watch the 
veterans issues and Presidents and Secretaries of the VA have said we 
will not serve them. They will not be eligible for the full benefits. 
This President, President Bush, said: I will make them eligible, but 
they need to pay a small fee, a couple hundred bucks a year, to have 
access to the greatest health care program in the world. The minority 
at that time, the Democrats, said: No. They get it free of charge or 
they don't get it.

Well, all of a sudden into this very valuable bill they parachuted 
Priority 8 veterans. What does that do? Well, if you go talk to the 
Secretary of the Veterans' Administration, they are going to tell you 
that it might cause a substantial problem. Why? Because all of a sudden 
in this health care system there could be 1.3 million more Americans 
eligible for health care--not planned for, not anticipated, not 
budgeted for, but parachuted in, I have to believe all in the name of 
trying to show a concern for veterans and to demonstrate that maybe we 
are a little more sensitive than the other side.

What does that mean? Well, it also means the potential of between 
$1.2 billion more expended in 2008 and up to $8.8 billion more by 2012. 
Did they fund it? No. Have they stuck it in the bill? Yes. Are they 
trying to create a priority? Yes. Are they trying to create a new 
expenditure? Yes. And I said: No. Let's serve our poor and our needy 
and our disabled first and our traumatically brain injured and our 
post-traumatic stress syndrome veterans. Let's serve them now. Let's 
put money into the bill to do that.

So the Senator from Texas talked about the VA-MILCON bill that is 
right at the desk right now, sent out by the ranking minority member of 
the VA-MILCON Subcommittee, on which I serve, of Appropriations, 
Senator Hutchison. We are trying to get a vote on it. That bill--that 
bill alone--has nearly $8 billion worth of new spending in it for 
veterans. That is a near 17.5-


to 18-percent increase over last year. I believe it can be said, other 
than defense, to be the largest increase in a budget of all of 
Government for this year. But the money I am talking about, the new 
money for Priority 8, is not even in that one. All of this new money 
for veterans needs that is in the bill that we are being told cannot be 
passed, that we keep trying to get a vote on, does not even include the 
$1.5 billion to $8 billion necessary to fund this new program for 
veterans who are not needy, who are not service connected, and who have 
not been eligible for a good number of years.

That is why we are saying no. You take Priority 8 out of this, and 
the Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury and Health Programs Improvement 
Act, S. 1233, could pass, and it would pass on a voice vote because the 
Senate--Democrats and Republicans--have always supported our veterans. 
But we will not nor will I allow us to get caught in the game of first 
you argue on the other side that we have a war nobody likes and a 
President who is not managing it well, and then on the other side you 
are saying we are not taking care of our veterans. I reject that, and I 
reject it totally for these reasons.

While I was chair and ranking member of the Veterans' Affairs 
Committee, and throughout the Bush administration, we have increased 
the funding for veterans on an annualized basis anywhere from 10 to 12 
percent. When I talk about the appropriations bill that is at the desk 
for veterans being a historically large increase, well, the one the 
year before was a historically large increase. We have never ducked our 
responsibility to veterans. But we must prioritize, and we must focus 
on the truly needy, and we must focus on those who are coming out of 
Iraq and Afghanistan and traumatic brain injury and all of those who 
continue to suffer today. That is the first bill, and it will continue 
to be objected to until they take out those kinds of add-ons.

Let's talk about the second bill. The second bill is S. 1315. Now, 
that is an interesting bill because if you look at it on its face 
value, you say: Yes, that makes some sense. We are going to give a 
veterans' benefit enhancement to a certain class of veteran. Let me 
tell you who that veteran is.


The bill includes roughly $900 million in new entitlement spending on 
an array of veterans' benefits, but what is interesting is, it is 
moving money away from poor, elderly, disabled and wartime U.S. 
veterans. It is taking effectively $2,000 annually from our veterans 
and moving it over to a veteran who does not even live in the United 
States and is not a citizen of the United States--a Filipino veteran.