# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `01a391912dd98f776482ffd17a44878f`
`Mr. LEVIN — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, this nomination of Congressman Nussle as 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget will put him at a 
critical place at a critical time. The OMB has been a powerful part of 
this administration, making key decisions on revenue, spending, 
transparency and regulation. And the new Director will play a major 
role in shaping both the remainder of this President's term as well as 
the outlook of the next.

One of OMB's most important functions each year is to help generate 
the President's budget request. With unprecedented levels of debt 
mounting ever higher, the Nation's budget blueprint must begin to 
reflect wise choices.

Unfortunately, the pattern of this administration so far has been one 
of fiscal recklessness. The President's tax cuts have reduced revenue 
to the Treasury by $1 trillion and will cost an additional $300 billion 
in 2007 alone. Over the past 5 years we have spent half a trillion 
dollars in Iraq, and we are continuing to spend $10 billion a month for 
that war.

Our current total debt is closing in on $9 trillion, which means that 
each American's share is nearly $30,000. And the budget President Bush 
submitted to Congress in February would continue that trend. It would 
increase the gross Federal debt by nearly $3 trillion to $11.5 trillion 
by 2012. That means each American's share of the debt would rise to a 
whopping $38,000.

The administration needs to turn over a new leaf of fiscal 
responsibility, and the new Director of OMB must be at the forefront of 
that effort. Digging out of this ditch of debt will take serious 
bipartisan cooperation and it will require Congress and the 
administration to work together. This includes deciding how to most 
fairly raise revenue and on which priorities to spend it. And it will 
mean putting aside partisanship of the moment to tackle the long-term 
economic challenges. We need an OMB Director who is fully committed to 
working with Congress to tackle this difficult and pressing problem.

Another critical function of OMB for which Congressman Nussle will be 
responsible is the management side. OMB plays an important role in the 
Federal Government's efforts to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse by 
pursuing management reforms, evaluating the effectiveness of Federal 
programs, and providing oversight of agency reports, rules, testimony 
and proposed legislation. OMB can exert great influence on public 
policy and I believe it is imperative that the person selected to run 
OMB be willing and able to work with both parties in Congress to face 
the extraordinary challenges ahead.

I will support this nomination, and I am hopeful that Congressman 
Nussle can meet the many challenges OMB faces at this critical time.