---
---

# None
## `01b5c32bb01945ed550ee0ab3445d681`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 15 September 2008`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I have an amendment I have filed to 
the Defense authorization bill, amendment No. 5369. I would like a take 
a few minutes to discuss it here today. I hope very much that this 
amendment can be called up. Indeed, I hope the entire intelligence 
authorization bill could be called up as a part of the compromise on 
the Defense authorization.

Chairman Rockefeller on the Intelligence Committee has done exemplary 
work to make sure we have a good, intense authorization bill. I hope 
very much that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will allow 
that to be called forward and voted on.

This particular amendment I want to talk about now, although it is 
small, is very important, and in my view it should be noncontroversial. 
This amendment is cosponsored by Senators Feinstein, Rockefeller, 
Hagel, Kennedy, Feingold, Wyden, Cardin, and Dodd. I thank all of those 
Senators for their cosponsorship.

The amendment is simple. It holds the United States only to standards 
we already require of our own military, only to standards we ourselves 
demand of other nations. Put simply, the amendment would require 
America's intelligence agencies to notify the International Committee 
of the Red Cross that an individual has been detained and to provide 
the ICRC with access to that individual in a manner consistent with the 
practices of the U.S. military. These terms of access are very 
reasonable, and confidentiality by the ICRC is maintained.

I said this was an important amendment. Why is this important? Well, 
President Clinton said it well recently:




 America's true strength comes from the power of our 


 example, not the example of our power.


If you really believe in our country and her virtue and in her 
promise, you understand this, and you understand what grievous and 
lasting harm America has suffered from this administration's embrace of 
torture and from this administration's embrace of torture's handmaiden: 
secret detention.

If you go down the corridors of history and you survey the evil 
practices of tyrant regimes, you find one of their most notorious 
methods of coercion and subjugation is holding prisoners incommunicado. 
From the oubliettes of Bourbon, France, to Calcutta's Black Hole; from 
the Gestapo's secret prisons to the Soviet gulags; from medieval 
dungeons to the bamboo cages of the Killing Fields, secret and 
anonymous imprisonment has always been the hallmark of the despot. Now 
the Bush administration has stamped America with this shameful mark.

America long opposed disappearances and secret detentions around the 
world as incompatible with our principles of liberty and justice. Just 
this past March, in its 2007 Annual Human Rights Report, the U.S. 
Department of State criticized the Governments of North Korea, Burma, 
and Sri Lanka for engaging in ''disappearances.'' Yet, on December 8, 
2005, the Bush administration acknowledged that the ICRC did not have 
access to detainees--to all detainees--held outside of Guantanamo. 
President Bush confirmed as much nearly 9 months later when he stated 
publicly that it had been ''necessary'' to move certain detainees to an 
''environment where they can be held secretly.''

This amendment should be unremarkable given the historic role of the 
ICRC. The ICRC has been visiting detainees in connection with armed 
conflict since 1915. Last year, the ICRC visited 518,000 detainees in 
77 countries. This organization visits prisoners, in its words, ''to 
ensure respect for their life, dignity and fundamental right to 
judicial guarantees.'' All these notions are part of the bedrock, as we 
know, of our own Constitution. A seminal text on this subject, ''The 
Treatment of Prisoners Under International Law,'' describes the 
prohibition of incommunicado detention as among the most central of all 
international prisoner safeguards.

The ICRC holds this unique role in part because of the way it 
conducts its business.

After a visit, the ICRC reports its findings confidentially to the 
detaining government. The ICRC has said this confidentiality is 
fundamental to its success, noting that it ''makes it easier for the 
ICRC and the detaining authorities to achieve concrete progress in 
detention places.'' Because of the ICRC's approach, this amendment 
carefully safeguards our national security. There is even flexibility 
for what are called ''imperative considerations of military 
necessity.'' Notably, the ICRC has played an important role for U.S. 
troops detained by other governments. The American Red Cross reports 
that the ICRC visited 55 U.S. prisoners of war in Iraq during the first 
gulf war and three U.S. servicemembers in a Serbian prison during the 
Kosovo conflict.

In World War II, in the places where the ICRC could operate, it 
provided badly need assistance to U.S. soldiers. For example, in 
Shanghai, one of the few areas the Japanese permitted ICRC access to 
detainees, the ICRC delegate sent the U.S. prisoners of war food and 
clothing. PFC Floyd H. Comfort, a part of the Wake Island Marine 
garrison said:




 If it had not been for the International Red Cross, I guess 


 we all would have starved to death.


Respected members of our military family recognize that this 
amendment would strengthen our ability to advocate for appropriate 
treatment of Americans detained overseas. I would like to place in the 
Record a letter from 38 retired military leaders, distinguished 
generals and admirals who have concluded this amendment is a ''critical 
measure to ensure continuing respect for the norm that [ICRC] access 
must be provided to all captives in wartime.''

I ask unanimous consent that the letter be printed in the Record.