# None
## `01c8afb3808eb150150c6bfe27474962`
`Mr. BROWNBACK â€” 8 May 2007`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I just returned from Greensburg, KS, 
yesterday, where we had a horrific tornado hit late Friday evening. I 
want to share with my colleagues some of the damage assessments, some 
of the pictures of what has taken place, and some of the needs we have 
for this community. It is a community I have been to a number of times 
while serving in different positions in Kansas. It is a wonderful 
community, full of community spirit, with people who have been there 
for a number of years. They have a celebration around a hand-dug well 
that is kind of an unusual event. It is the world's largest hand-dug 
well. You can go to the bottom of it, and I have done that.

Greensburg is a community with a lot of spirit in the middle of the 
State and in the middle of our country. Now it is experiencing this 
tremendous devastation. The tornado covered 40 miles in 90 minutes. It 
was first spotted at 8:24 p.m. last Friday 3 miles south of Sitka, KS, 
in Clark County.

The tornado tracked through six counties: Comanche, Kiowa, Edwards, 
Stafford, Pratt, and Barton. At 9:45 p.m., the tornado demolished 
Greensburg before wrapping north and dissipating before 10 p.m. 
Fortunately, the National Weather Service and a weather man out of 
Dodge City spotted it and warned the community, and the community had 
about a 20-minute warning that a tornado was coming and that it was a 
big one.

When Greensburg was struck, the tornado's wind forces exceeded 205 
miles per hour, falling into the highest category on the Enhanced 
Fujita Scale, EF-5. The size of the tornado was 1.7 miles in diameter, 
which, if you know anything about tornadoes, is enormous. Twelve people 
have died as a result of this storm cell. They found another two 
individuals yesterday.

When a tornado hits--and you will see pictures here--often the houses 
will blow up in the process because of the air pressure outside of the 
house that is much reduced from the air pressure in the house, and 
there will be a blowing up of the house, or the wind comes in and hits 
it. It can be destroyed by the wind.

Thirteen people are still in the hospital, with four of them in 
critical condition today. There was some good news on Sunday. We found 
a person still alive underneath the rubble.

Ninety percent of the town has been destroyed, from Greensburg to the 
Northeast, which was hit by multiple tornadoes that were spawned by the 
same supercell thunderstorm. It is an older community. More than 50 
percent of the population is 45 years of age or older, and 25 percent 
of the population is 65 years of age or older. Primarily, the economic 
drivers of the community are farming and oil and gas production.

We will need substantial assistance. I want to show pictures from the 
wreckage I toured yesterday. I am pleased to note that the President is 
coming tomorrow. I was there yesterday with the Governor and several 
members of the congressional delegation. Senator Roberts was there on 
Saturday. It is devastating to see.

Here you see a structure left standing there, which is a grain 
elevator. That is really the only structure left standing in the town. 
The courthouse is standing, but its roof has been ripped off. It is 
amazing people can actually survive something like this. Most people 
have storm shelters or basements they can go into, and they did with 
the warning, and some called other people in the community. All of 
these trees were denuded in the area, and the whole place was ripped 
and torn into shreds in the county and in this particular community.

This is one of the main structures in the downtown area of 
Greensburg. All of the brick around it is damaged.

They were able to keep the Greensburg sign still posted in this 
picture. These were taken when the storm system was still in the area. 
There was a tornado the next day within a mile of Greensburg, from the 
same supercell system. It dumped 10, 12 inches of rain in northeast 
Kansas.

You can still see ominous-looking clouds in this photo. It was very 
dicey over the entire weekend.

This was one of the more stable houses that remains standing in the 
area. I went into a house that was somewhat like this, which was built 
almost 100 years ago. I talked with the


owner. They were going to celebrate the 100-year anniversary for the 
house, which was built in 1908. He said, ''We didn't quite make it.'' 
The house is going to be demolished now. It will not survive.

This is a view of some of the damage to vehicles. This is a blank 
landscape in the backdrop. I wanted to give some views of what has 
taken place in the community. It has been completely and utterly 
destroyed.

I would like to note that FEMA has been questioned by me and by a 
number of my colleagues. Prior to Katrina, it had done a lot of good 
work that people had respected and appreciated. They felt there was a 
good group on the job. But then Katrina happened and you looked and 
said: Where is the FEMA that I knew that would go in and respond in 
these situations? We are watching carefully to see how FEMA responds to 
our situation, to our devastation.

I am pleased to state--and I talked with a number of individuals in 
the community--they are meeting the needs. The needs of the community 
are being met. They are there on the grounds, being aggressive in 
dealing with it. The people appreciate they are there. We are going to 
watch and make sure all of their needs are met.

I will ask my colleagues for assistance as well. This is a small, 
older community. It lacks much in the way of resources. We need help in 
this particular situation. We are going to be pushing--Senator Roberts 
and I--for 100-percent coverage on public assistance and on matters 
such as debris removal and repair and rebuilding public facilities: 
city hall, fire stations, hospitals, water/wastewater, city powerplant, 
and gas and diesel generators. The community lacks the resources to 
meet these needs. We will look to remove the 25-percent local match for 
FEMA funds. The entire town and their economy was destroyed. There is 
no way Greensburg can come up with the match of funds that is necessary 
in this community.

I also want to try something innovative. This is a community in the 
High Plains. The New Homestead Act is a bill that Senator Dorgan from 
North Dakota and I have been pushing for some time. I have been a lead 
cosponsor. As I said, it is a bill called the New Homestead Act. We 
have had many communities drained in the High Plains, particularly in 
the Midwest, because of a consolidation in agriculture primarily, but 
also other features, to where we have had out-migration in huge areas. 
This is a county that has experienced a lot of out-migration. I would 
like to see us use Kiowa County--Greensburg is the county seat--as a 
pilot project for the New Homestead Act.


The biggest concern, once we complete cleanup, is getting the people 
and their businesses back up and going. Here is a chance for us, given 
the level of public commitment in place and the desire to rebuild this 
community, to try this New Homestead Act that can work as a magnet to 
attract people back into these communities that have had difficulty 
transitioning from an agricultural economy to something else. This bill 
is to encourage people to move to rural areas that have depopulated. 
This bill will help repay college tuition loans for people who move 
back into the community, help folks buy their first home and set up 
individual homestead accounts to help people save for the future. Also, 
this bill will help pump capital to Main Street America through a rural 
venture capital fund.

I think these are things we can look at and say let's try this here 
and let's see it work. Let's see what we can model off of to help many 
places in the High Plains that have experienced this depopulation. We 
will be pushing also for an enhanced USDA rural development package.

There has been a controversy coming up that I think is unfortunate. 
That has been the question about whether there has been enough 
equipment from the National Guard--the Kansas National Guard, on the 
ground in Greensburg to take care of this atrocity, this disaster, or 
has too much been diverted to the war on terrorism and in Iraq. 
Yesterday, I asked specifically the Kansas adjutant general--the head 
of the Kansas National Guard: Do you have enough equipment on the 
ground to take care of Greensburg? He said: Yes, we have enough 
equipment.

I made the point: If you don't, we are going to push Fort Riley and 
other places to come up with this equipment.

He said: No, we have enough equipment.

Unfortunately, this has grown into a bit of a controversy as to 
whether there is sufficient equipment or if too much has been diverted 
to Iraq. The specific statement by Kansas' head of the National Guard--
the adjutant general--says there is sufficient equipment on the ground 
to meet this need. I think it is important that be stated and that be 
clear because these needs are existing, but they are being met and the 
equipment is there.

I want to make sure that we can respond. I want to note, finally, to 
anybody who is interested, fortunately, because of the nature of the 
country and generous people in the United States, they want to help. 
They want to know what they can do for the people of Greensburg.

There are three places that I suggest they look to contribute: the 
American Red Cross, Salvation Army, and the United Way of the Plains in 
Wichita, KS. Those three groups are ones that are receiving and 
funneling funds into Greensburg. Being a small community, it didn't 
have these sorts of organizations there. But these groups do work. Cash 
donations are being accepted. There is no current need for donations 
in-kind, but I hope people will look back and come back in the future 
and consider that on in-kind items. Those groups would be helpful. The 
United Way of the Plains established a Greensburg disaster fund to 
which people can contribute. I hope people will consider contributing 
to those three entities.

We have a number of different groups that are stepping up, including 
Pizza Huts through Kansas, which are donating 20 percent of their 
profits on Thursday, May 10, to go to this United Way of the Plains--
the Greensburg disaster fund. I hope other groups will also do that so 
Greensburg can rebuild and renew itself and grow into the future. These 
are tough times for this community, but it is a resilient community.

It impresses me when you see horrific disasters such as this, just a 
complete devastation, and you talk to the people and they want to 
rebuild and dig out and they want to go on. That is the resilience of 
the human spirit in the face of a horrendous disaster, loss of life and 
property, and a loss of almost an entire community. The people there 
were talking about how to rebuild. It is beautiful to see that.

We mourn their losses. The people of Greensburg and Kansas are 
thankful for all the prayers people have given for that community, in 
all of their tragedy and difficulty. They will be back and they will 
rebuild and they will go forward and raise the next generation of 
families in Greensburg and Kiowa County.

The country is going to help out, and I think the country will help 
in a powerful, positive way, and we will celebrate as Greensburg comes 
back.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.