# None
## `01cc12a3a19cf4be619f028d9a30037b`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, year five of blunders, that is a true slow-
bleed policy in Iraq.

Defeatism? Well, that is an Administration that lacks the courage to 
admit its failures and which pays for those failures with the blood of 
the brave, the blood of someone else, and with $10 billion of your tax 
money every single month.

Gimmicks? Gimmicks are what got us into Iraq in the first place. It 
certainly wasn't the ''war on terrorism.''

You can make all of the excuses that you want for continuing to embed 
our troops in a civil war, but a vote today for the Iraq Redeployment 
Act is a vote to end endless war. It is a vote for a fully funded, 
safe, and orderly redeployment that allows us to refocus on the war on 
terrorism, which is a threat to our families, rather than the civil war 
in Iraq, which is not.

It is not the enemy that has us pinned down in Iraq today; it is this 
Administration's unwillingness to admit its mistakes and its lies.

The intervention in Iraq was this country's largest foreign policy 
blunder. Now it is time for Congress to intervene. With this war in its 
fifth year, for Congress not to act now is for Congress to become an 
enabler and an accomplice to the Administration's errors.

Vice President Cheney rightly complains about the Iraqis proposing to 
take a two-month vacation. But what is really at fault here is Mr. 
Cheney and this Administration's four-year vacation from reality.

''Victory'' is improving our families' security. Pursuing policies 
contrary to that objective, committing the same error over and over 
again, that is defeatist.