---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `01d06d88dac6e700c068afb1da942be5`
`Mr. CASEY — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. CASEY. I rise tonight, as we continue work on this Defense 
appropriations bill, to talk about the challenges we face in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan and will be sharing some thoughts tonight 
which I know are consistent with a lot of the concerns that have been 
expressed over the last couple days and weeks and months about the 
policy going forward and what we confront as a country when it comes to 
both the strategy going forward with Afghanistan and Pakistan.

As we do in any conflict, with any threat, we face the grave question 
of war and what will happen to our military strategy, what we will ask 
of our troops, what we will ask of the American people, both in terms 
of our blood and treasure, as well as what is the strategy going 
forward.

I think when we confront the grave question of war, we have to get it 
right. I believe the stakes are higher with regard to Afghanistan and 
Pakistan than they were even in the conflict we waged in Iraq. I 
believe the stakes are higher for our national security. So we have no 
choice but to get it right. And when I say ''we,'' I think there is a 
lot of discussion, debate, and focus on President Obama and his 
administration. That is appropriate because he is the Commander in 
Chief.

But there is probably not enough discussion about what the Congress 
is going to do, what this Congress should do or not do and, in this 
case, what the Senate should do or should not do. I think we would be 
better off spending our time focusing on a substantive and thorough 
debate in the Senate rather than just pointing a finger at the 
President, the administration, and saying: They have to do this or the 
President must do this.



It is important, when we talk about getting this policy right, that 
the Senate gets it right. If the Senate puts the time in to debate and 
discuss these critical issues--and there is a lot to do in a rather 
short amount of time. I believe the President should be given a 
reasonable amount of time to review this policy.

As we know, he set forward a strategy this past spring, in March, our 
policy with regard to both Afghanistan and Pakistan. If you remember 
how he articulated the mission, he talked about defeating al-Qaida, 
disabling and dismantling al-Qaida, and he talked a lot in his remarks 
about Pakistan, about what would happen with regard to our strategy in 
Pakistan.

But I believe there has not been today in the Senate anything 
approaching a full and robust and thorough and substantive debate about 
what we are going to do going forward in Afghanistan or Pakistan. I 
hope people on both sides of the aisle, when we begin this debate--we 
have done some of it; we need to do a lot more--that we don't just dust 
off talking points from the war in Iraq, that we don't just dust off or 
employ sound bites. There is a time and place to use sound bites and 
discussions and debates. But if we are going to get this policy right, 
it is not going to be a Democratic solution or strategy only, and it 
will not be a Republican solution or strategy only. We have to get it 
right. That means we have to do a lot better than we did when it came 
to the debate before and during the war in Iraq, which is still a 
conflict that is ongoing, even as we draw down troops. We have to have 
a much better debate in the Senate on Afghanistan and Pakistan than 
took place here with regard to Iraq. That is an understatement. Sound 
bites will not do it. Political rhetoric and positioning will not do it 
because that is not a full debate.


In short, what we have to do--the administration has to do it, but we 
have to do it as well--in the Senate is get the strategy right and 
debate the strategy before we have a long debate about resources. That 
is critically important. I know there are a lot of people in Washington 
who want to focus on one or two issues and make it simple--you are 
either for or against this or that. We have a long way to go. We have 
not had a debate about strategy. We have had a lot of discussion and 
coverage of resources, be they troops or other resources, military or 
nonmilitary. We have not had a discussion about the strategy. We have 
to do that first--strategy before resources.

I had the opportunity, as many of our colleagues did in the summer, 
in August, to go to both Afghanistan and Pakistan for a limited period. 
But even in a short amount of time, one can learn a lot--2 days in 
Afghanistan, 1 day in Pakistan. One of the highlights of my visit to 
Afghanistan, after having been there in May of 2008, was the briefing 
from General McChrystal, a tremendous and thorough overview of what is 
happening on the ground, the threat to our national security as he sees 
it, also a review not only of the military strategy and the military 
challenges but the nonmilitary as well.

Sitting at the same table with General McChrystal were distinguished 
Americans who are serving us in nonmilitary capacities--the Department 
of State, the USAID, the Department of Agriculture, all kinds of help 
from various Federal Government agencies that involve the other part of 
counterinsurgency, not only the military campaign.

Obviously, we have to do more than that. General McChrystal, like 
many of his predecessors, is doing everything he can to get this right.

I, like others, have reviewed his classified report. We have heard 
him give a summary of the strategy. It is very important that we weigh 
those considerations and weigh that assessment seriously going forward. 
General McChrystal's report is one of the things we have to weigh. We 
have to weigh a lot of other things as well. We have to listen to 
experts within our government and outside, experts within the 
administration, experts in the Congress. The Senate is made up of so 
many Senators who have long records on foreign policy as well as 
national security and making sure we get this right. Some are 
Democrats, some are Republicans, and some are Independents. I will draw 
upon, as we all should, that experience. I will talk more about that in 
a moment.

One thing stressed by General McChrystal--and it has been stressed by 
President Obama and the administration and should be stressed by us--is 
this policy, this strategy going forward in Afghanistan has to involve 
a couple of basic elements. It obviously has to involve and be focused 
on security. That is essential, obviously. But in addition to security 
and the military challenge, we also have to be concerned about 
governance. And we are concerned about the results of the election. We 
are concerned about whether President Karzai is doing what he needs to 
do to govern his country, to have a strong judiciary, to deliver 
services to his people, to make sure the people of Afghanistan have 
confidence in his leadership.

So we have to be concerned about security and governance but also, 
thirdly, development, what is going to happen on the ground. A lot of 
people working as part of provisional reconstruction terms, so-called 
PRTs, are doing great work on the ground. It is not in the newspaper 
very often. It is not heralded like a battle is or like a controversy 
might be, but that is part of building up communities throughout the 
country in Afghanistan so people can take control of their own lives, 
take control of their own communities, and take control of their own 
security and their own future.

We also had a chance to talk at length about what is happening in 
Pakistan and the threats that come across the border from Pakistan into 
Afghanistan, threats that involve al-Qaida or other extremist or 
insurgent groups that have some loose confederation with or connection 
to al-Qaida and threaten our national security, threaten the security 
of the Afghan people, and even threaten the security of the Pakistani 
Government. These are very difficult challenges we face. They do 
involve our national security. We have to get it right with regard to 
what we do in Afghanistan as well as in Pakistan.

I mentioned before there were a number of Senators in both parties 
who have been trying to begin and amplify the debate. I happen to be a 
member of the Foreign Relations Committee. Our chairman, Senator Kerry, 
has had a number of hearings on various aspects of this policy, not 
only going back the last 2 or 3 weeks but going back months. That 
informs this debate. Chairman Kerry has shown great leadership on these 
issues as well as broader national security issues.

Chairman Levin gave a speech recently that laid out a thoughtful 
approach. He talked about building up the Afghan Army and the National 
Police prior to a serious consideration of additional troops. He wants 
to accelerate, as we all do, the building up of the Army and Police in 
Afghanistan and maybe in a much shorter timeframe. That is critically 
important. We have to spend a lot more time talking about and debating 
and informing ourselves about how best to accelerate the training of 
the Afghan Army and Police. Chairman Levin, as well, has shown, through 
his leadership of the Armed Services Committee, how important these 
issues are.

On the other side of the aisle, I read a Wall Street Journal piece 
recently by John McCain, ranking member of the Armed Services 
Committee, Senator Lindsey Graham, and Senator Lieberman. We have to 
consider those points of view, not just in that op-ed but in other 
discussions and debates on the Senate floor.

As I said before, there will not be one party that is going to solve 
this. There is not going to be one party to implement a 
counterinsurgency strategy because when it comes to war and when it 
comes to the nonmilitary challenges we have that are connected to a war 
or a campaign, there is not a Democratic or Republican way to fight a 
war. There is only an American way. We need an American solution. We 
need a kind of consensus that we may not need on some other issues, but 
on this one, to get it right, we are going to need both parties. And we 
will need the support of the American people to get it right.

Finally, let me say one more word about why we are doing this, why we 
should have a thorough debate going forward, why it is important we 
spend a lot of hours here, not just on the floor of the Senate but in 
hearings and


discussions and briefings with various experts who come before us, and 
to thoroughly question and ask the tough questions of the 
administration.

I was glad we voted today on a list of administration officials we 
want to come before the Senate after the President makes fundamental 
determinations about this policy. Once he has made a decision, then we 
should have a series of hearings where we can cross-examine not only 
General McChrystal and the underpinnings of his policy but so many 
others in the administration, a very strong administration, I would 
argue, on foreign policy and national security. I will not go through 
all the names tonight that would give evidence to that.

Finally, if we are going to get this right for the fighting men and 
women we send out on the battlefield, if we are going to get this right 
for taxpayers who will be financing this effort, whether it is military 
or nonmilitary, we do have to get it right. One thing we have to bear 
in mind is, when we send troops out to fight a battle, we have to make 
sure the policy that undergirds their fight, that the strategy that 
leads to a discussion about what the resources are to give them all the 
resources they need to fight a battle, whether it is very wide or very 
narrow in focus, whatever it is, we have to make sure what we do here 
is worthy of their sacrifice; that what we do in the Senate on strategy 
or policy is worthy of what we are asking them to do on the 
battlefield. We haven't done that yet. We are a long way from doing it.

I hope in the next couple of weeks, even as the President is asking 
tough questions and making determinations about policy, that we do our 
job in the Senate to ask those tough questions, to have that important 
debate, and make sure it is substantive and not political; make sure it 
is about strategy and not just the politics or the sound bites of the 
moment. To be worthy of their valor, those fighting men and women, and 
to be worthy of their sacrifice, we have to do our job in the Senate. 
That has not happened yet. We have to make sure we do that in short 
order.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.