# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `01defdde0d9408903ece020523724b63`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, as a member of the Senate 
Appropriations Committee, I helped craft the 2008 Military Construction 
and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill and I am proud of the 
priorities we set for our military.

There is no more important time than now to show our support for our 
troops. Nearly 200,000 American service men and women are fighting in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. More than 1.5 million have served valiantly since 
these wars began. Of these, more than 33,000 servicemembers have come 
from New Jersey.

This legislation will provide critical funding to ensure that those 
in our military who sacrifice in defense of our country now and those 
who did so in the past are given the best care.

Overall veterans funding will increase 18 percent over last year's 
levels, supporting physical and mental care, the administration of the 
Veterans' Administration, VA, health system, and VA medical facilities.

The Veterans Health Administration will receive an increase of $4.6 
billion to help care for our wounded warriors, to treat both their 
physical injuries and increasingly common mental trauma, including 
post-traumatic stress disorder.

This appropriations bill also aims to strengthen our military bases, 
providing $21 billion for military construction efforts and 
infrastructure improvements at bases, including those in New Jersey, 
and to support projects related to the Defense Base Realignment and 
Closure Act, BRAC, of 2005.

We are all proud of the work being done at military bases in our home 
States and nationwide, and it is vital that we support their missions 
now and in the future.

But I must take a moment to alert my colleagues to troubling 
information that has come to light since the Appropriations Committee 
completed work on this bill.

Fort Monmouth, based in New Jersey, is the Army's primary 
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance facility. The Army's work 
at Fort Monmouth is critical to the safety of America's military men 
and women and to the success of their missions. The intelligence 
support it provides goes directly to our troops in the field, making 
them more effective fighters and protecting their lives and the lives 
of those around them.

Over the next 5 years, researchers at Fort Monmouth are slated to 
develop significant innovations for our Armed Forces, such as Warlock 
Jammers, which emit radio frequencies that interfere with the signals 
that set off improvised explosive devices--infamously known as IEDs.

The Jammer was engineered at Fort Monmouth and modified for use in 
Iraq. The military was able to deploy them within 60 days of their 
development, and they save American lives.

But despite the critical value of this and other innovations at the 
Fort, the BRAC Commission in 2005 voted to close Fort Monmouth.

It goes without saying that no Senator wants to see a base close in 
his or her State. And it is not only New Jersey that will suffer a loss 
of jobs and economic activity because of the 2005 BRAC process.

But the situation with Fort Monmouth is unique and casts a shadow on 
the entire base closure process.

As we learn more information about the closure of Fort Monmouth, it 
becomes increasingly clear that this was a flawed process based on 
faulty estimates that must be thoroughly investigated.

The first and most pressing question is how this closure will affect 
our troops in the field, given the crucial work Fort Monmouth does for 
ongoing missions overseas.

Simply put, Fort Monmouth is strategically vital to our military and 
to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Anticipating this alarming problem, the BRAC Commission specifically 
included a requirement for the Secretary of Defense to prove that 
closing Fort Monmouth will not harm troops in the field.

The caveat required the Pentagon to submit a report to Congress 
ensuring ''that movement of organizations, functions, or activities 
from Fort Monmouth to Aberdeen Proving Ground will be accomplished 
without disruption of their support to the Global War on Terrorism.'' 
The GAO is then expected to review and audit the report.

Yet more than 2 years after the BRAC Commission vote, the 
administration has failed to produce this report.

Even worse, the Army is trying to move personnel out of Fort Monmouth 
before it has even considered the effect on our military.

This is unacceptable. No personnel should leave Fort Monmouth and be 
transferred to Aberdeen, MD, before the Department of Defense reports 
to Congress that the closure of Fort Monmouth will not hurt our troops 
in the field.

But that is only one of the reasons why the BRAC decision to close 
Fort Monmouth is so controversial and so flawed.

It is becoming increasingly clear that only about 20 percent of the 
highly trained and highly skilled workforce who work at the Fort--from 
engineers to scientists--appear willing to move to Maryland.

This is far fewer than the rosy forecast of 75 percent that was 
provided to the BRAC Commission in 2005.

Again, we must ask how this shortage of expertise will affect the 
critical operations and technology that Fort Monmouth currently 
provides to our military.

Furthermore, the costs of closing Fort Monmouth are skyrocketing and 
call into question the very cost-savings rationale upon which BRAC 
decisions are made.

This argument was made by many in 2005, but the warnings were 
ignored. And as more facts come to light, it becomes apparent that the 
BRAC Commission was not given all of the information that it should 
have had to make its decision.

The original cost estimate for closing the fort was $780 million.

But according to the Army's own budget request for the fiscal year 
2008, that cost has now nearly doubled to $1.5 billion.

We all know that the cost overruns are not limited to the closure of 
Fort Monmouth.

In fact, the Congressional Research Service has calculated that 
overall BRAC costs have increased from initial estimates of $17 billion 
to a current projection of $32 billion.

There are also signs that the true costs of closing Fort Monmouth may 
have been ignored in 2005. There is mounting evidence that the Pentagon 
knew, or should have known, that the cost estimates it gave the BRAC 
Commission related to the closure of Fort Monmouth were not correct. A 
July 2005 memo from Fort Monmouth officials detailed significant cost 
errors in the Pentagon's estimates, but the information in that memo 
was never received by the BRAC Commission.

For these reasons I, joined by Senator Menendez and our colleagues in 
the House of Representatives, have asked both the Government 
Accountability Office and Defense Department's inspector general to 
investigate the decision to close Fort Monmouth.

There is over $200 million in this bill for military construction at 
Aberdeen, MD.

While I understand this committee's desire to continue funding 
pursuant to the 2005 BRAC Commission decisions, I must caution that the 
closure of Fort Monmouth and the transfer of its critical operations 
needs to be reexamined in light of these facts and the investigations 
and reports that are underway.

I would also note that Senator Menendez and I have introduced 
legislation to change the BRAC process by calling for a review of major 
base closures that result in excessive cost overruns of over 25 
percent.

I hope my colleagues will see the wisdom of this legislation and 
support it in the coming months.