---
---

# IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN VETERANS MEMORIAL POST OFFICE
## `01e74613ddb0543fabb50740a9c4cd72`
`Mr. ISSA — 15 September 2009`

---


Mr. ISSA. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of this bill designating the facility of 
the United States Postal Service located at 1165 2nd Avenue in Des 
Moines, Iowa, as the ''Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans Memorial Post 
Office.''

Mr. Speaker, this is a particularly appropriate naming. Often we name 
post offices in honor of one individual whose service may have been in 
the Postal Service, here in Congress, or perhaps an individual who gave 
their last full measure to the country.

In this case, we're recognizing a conflict--a conflict that has been 
difficult and has cost the lives of a great many American men and 
women--and this broad recognition that we should pay honor to them is 
particularly noteworthy when you realize that more than 11,000 Iowa 
National Guard members have been called to Active Duty in the past 8 
years and that in fact more than 70 have died in combat.

So I join with Mr. Boswell in support for this bill. It's well 
thought out. It's unusual for a Member to forgo perhaps the 
gratification of naming something after a former colleague or after 
somebody by name in their district and to look beyond that--to look to 
the brave men and women who have served nobly in this crisis and 
recognize them in a broader way and one that I think will be enduring 
in Iowa for generations to come.

With that, I reserve the balance of my time.