---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `01f79740e467d1e8f904a1dd47e2a710`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I strongly support the Feingold-Reid 
amendment on Iraq. This is a defining moment in our debate on this 
misguided war. We in Congress have a choice. We can continue the 
administration's failed policy and guarantee that even more American 
troops will die in Iraq's bloody civil war. Or we can finally exercise 
our ''power of the purse'' and begin to bring this disastrous war to an 
end by linking the requirement to withdraw our combat troops from Iraq 
by next March to a prohibition on spending.

We all must face up to the fact that Congress must use the power of 
the purse to force an end to the war, and the sooner we do so, the 
better.

It is wrong for the Congress to continue to defer to Presidential 
decisions that we know are fatally flawed.

The American people know this war is wrong, and it is wrong to 
abdicate our responsibility by allowing this war to drag on longer 
while our casualties mount higher and higher.

For more than 4 long years, the President's assertion of 
unprecedented power has gone unchecked. This amendment reclaims our 
responsibility under the Constitution as a co-equal branch of 
Government, with specific powers of our own on issues of war and peace.

Congress can exercise its authority to redirect or terminate an 
ongoing conflict in two ways. It can enact specific limits on the scope 
of the conflict, and it can use the power of the purse to deny funding 
for all or parts of a conflict.

Congress has followed that path in prior wars, and we must follow it 
today. During the Vietnam war, Congress repealed the Gulf of Tonkin 
Resolution of 1964, which many of us felt had been misused to justify 
the escalation of America's involvement in Vietnam. Congress also 
prohibited the reintroduction of troops into Cambodia after President 
Nixon's escalation of the war. We went on to cap the number of American 
troops in Vietnam, and we eventually cut off funding for the war when 
the President left us no alternative.

Exasperated by the actions of successive Presidents Johnson and Nixon 
on the Vietnam war, Congress enacted the War Powers Act in 1973 over 
President Nixon's veto. The act requires Presidents to consult with 
Congress before placing troops in harm's way, seek authorization to 
keep them there, and continue consultation as the conflict goes on.

This congressional assertion of power in matters of war and peace 
resonates loudly today.

Opponents of our efforts to bring the Iraq war to an end have 
mischaracterized any use of this congressional power as an abandonment 
of our soldiers on the battlefield. Nothing could be further from the 
truth.

No responsible legislator would take any action that endangers our 
troops. In fact, using congressional authority to force a change of 
course in Iraq and begin to bring our troops out of Iraq's civil war is 
the best way to protect our troops.

Requiring a change of course by using the ''power of the purse'' or 
taking other action will not mean taking equipment and supplies away 
from our troops. We will avoid the mistake the President made in 
sending our troops into Iraq without adequate armor and without a plan 
to win the peace. There is no reason for Congress now to shy away from 
exercising the full range of its constitutional powers.

President Bush should not be permitted to continue his disastrous 
policy of sending more and more American troops to die in the quagmire 
of Iraq's civil war.

Because the President refuses to bring this war to an end, we in 
Congress must put on the brakes ourselves and stop the madness. We must 
require the administration to begin to bring our troops home to the 
hero's welcome they have earned.

The failure of our policy is abundantly clear to anyone who honestly 
looks at the facts.

Despite the addition of tens of thousands of American troops, and the 
ongoing presence of more than 150,000 American soldiers in Iraq, 
political reconciliation remains as difficult as ever to achieve.

Our troops continue to be vulnerable targets for the insurgents in 
what has been the longest period of high casualty rates since the war 
began. Sectarian violence in Baghdad continues. Attacks within the 
international zone in Baghdad are increasing. Violence is spreading out 
of Baghdad and increasing elsewhere in Iraq. Iraqis are demonstrating 
in the streets against America's occupation. Legislation pending in the 
Iraqi Parliament would require a timetable for the withdrawal of U.S. 
forces from Iraq.

The Iraqi people want a timetable for the withdrawal of our military. 
The American people want a timetable. Only the President continues to 
stubbornly refuse to adopt one.

It is time for President Bush to listen to the Iraq Study Group, the 
Iraqi people, Congress, and the American people, and work with us to 
bring our troops home.