---
---

# THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON RULES
## `021ad6b333048c1c14b192a06c24b1d0`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Washington — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Washington. We were promised this after the election, 
I remind my friend from California, this was after the election.

The reason for this is very obvious. The role of the Rules Committee 
is to funnel legislation so that every Member could have a possibility 
to be heard. We have 19 standing committees. Because we have two 
vacancies, there are 433 Members of the House today. We simply couldn't 
control this unless we had the standing committees doing their work.

Yet, Mr. Speaker, the Rules Committee this year is on track to 
rewrite more bills in the Rules Committee than we ever did during the 
12 years that we were in control of Congress. They have done it with 
troops in Iraq. They did it with lobby reform. They did it with the 
farm bill legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I want to talk a bit about the farm bill. I come from 
rural America. I was very much involved in that process as we are going 
forward. I recall very, very specifically that when the farm bill came 
out of committee, it came out of committee with strong bipartisan 
support. Yet, when we went to the Rules Committee the next day to 
report out a rule, there was a massive tax increase that was put on 
that farm bill.

I remember the distinguished ranking member, last year's chairman, of 
the Agriculture Committee, Bob Goodlatte from Virginia, came to the 
Rules Committee and testified. He said, I felt betrayed by what went 
on, because he was not a part of that process. I know, I can speak to 
the bipartisan nature of how this farm bill was put together as it 
relates to the farm because there was a hearing in my district. There 
were four Republicans and four Democrats that showed up to this hearing 
last June, so this was a process in the making. Yet, at the last 
minute, all that process was thrown aside, and it was a broken deal.

It is bad because of what is happening. The policies that we have in 
place have potential detrimental effects to the farmers. The farm bill, 
I might add, expired at the end of September.



We put a 2-week extension on that. I suspect we will probably have to 
have another 2-week extension on that. It is not right, in a body of 
this size, to rewrite bills in the Rules Committee.

I want to follow up on my friend from Florida who talked about the 
SCHIP bill. That bill was enacted on a bipartisan basis in 1997. I 
supported that. It was part of a larger bill. That was probably the 
most egregious rewrite. We met at 1:00 in the morning, only had about 
an hour to look at what was in the bill, and there was a lot of rumors 
going around, but we met at 1:00 in the morning, a 500-page bill.

I got a heads-up from a clinic in my district that is physician owned 
that they would be out of business if this bill were signed into law.