---
---

# THE PRESIDENT IS RIGHT TO EMPHASIZE ECONOMIC AID IN AFGHANISTAN AND  PAKISTAN
## `021c8a344fe63114d4dfbf44eaba39df`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 30 March 2009`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Madam Speaker, President Obama announced his strategy 
for Afghanistan and Pakistan on Friday. I personally am encouraged by 
much of what he had to say, but I remain concerned by other parts of 
his approach to the problems in that region.

The President said that ''a campaign against extremism will not 
succeed with bullets and bombs alone'' and that a big change from the 
last administration's approach is absolutely necessary. And I will tell 
you it is a very welcome change. President Obama called for a package 
of assistance that will help Pakistan to build schools, roads and 
hospitals. He also called for a ''civilian surge'' in Afghanistan. He 
wants to send agricultural specialists, educators and engineers to help 
develop the Afghan economy.

The President said that ''these foreign assistance programs relieve 
the burden on our troops. It is better to help a farmer seed a crop 
than it is to send our troops to fight tour after tour with no 
transition to Afghan responsibility.''

Madam Speaker, I wholeheartedly support these economic assistance 
efforts. I have said for a long time that the best way to fight 
terrorism is to give people real hope for a better future so that they 
don't become terrorists in the first place.



I'm also heartened by the President's clarification of the roles of 
NATO, the U.N. and other international partners. He is asking them to 
help with the civilian effort, and he's asking the United Nations to 
bring all the nations of the region together, including Iran, to help 
stabilize the region.

I recently joined my colleagues, Congresswoman Barbara Lee and 
Congresswoman Maxine Waters, in sending a letter to the President 
asking him for such clarification because I remain concerned about 
other parts of the administration's approach, including the decision to 
send 17,000 more combat troops to Afghanistan.

Madam Speaker, history makes it clear that the Afghan people do not 
look kindly on foreign armies. The press is already reporting that the 
decision to send more troops is encouraging Taliban leaders in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan to unite to fight us.

I'm also concerned about the cost of sending more troops, the cost in 
both lives and treasure. It will require a 60 percent increase in 
military spending at a time when our economy right here at home is 
suffering so badly.

That's why, Madam Speaker, now is the time to take a deep breath. Now 
is the time to pause to consider whether there are other alternatives 
to sending our troops to Afghanistan. To help with this, the 
Congressional Progressive Caucus has put together a series of forums on 
Afghanistan and Pakistan. The purpose of these forums is to engage 
Members of the House in discussions about our policy options. The 
forums feature leading experts on Central Asia. In fact, the first 
forum was last week, and it examined the history and cultures of the 
Afghan people.

The upcoming forums will examine American strategic interests in 
Afghanistan and the northwest border of Pakistan, the role and goals of 
our military in that region, the problems that a comprehensive strategy 
of Afghanistan should address, our policies toward Afghanistan in the 
context of Pakistan, and the development of an international diplomatic 
strategy for the region.

I invite all Members of the House to attend these forums. They are 
nonpartisan. They're nonideological, and they offer different 
perspectives and different ideas, because now is the time to explore 
our choices in Central Asia and to work with the administration to 
develop the most effective policies. That is what the American people 
expect us to do, and that is what we must do in the days ahead.
