# None
## `0221f60122cbe4bcb6de17fb02f49957`
`Mr. DORGAN — 22 July 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, there has been a lot of discussion on the 
floor of the Senate in the last couple of days about small business 
legislation and various things dealing with jobs, and clearly we need a 
lot of jobs in this country. We have gone through a very steep economic 
decline that has victimized lots of Americans. Because of that, we have 
a lot of people who are waking up in the mornings without work and 
wondering what to do next. They feel helpless and hopeless and are 
trying to get their feet on the ground. But they need some help from 
this Congress; that is, we do not create jobs, but we do create 
conditions under which jobs can be created by the private sector.

So I want to talk a little about the issue of what might give the 
American people some confidence because confidence is everything. If 
they are confident about the future, it means our economy can expand. 
If people are not confident about the future, our economy will 
contract. It is that simple.

There is no question that this country now, having gone through the 
biggest economic downturn since the Great Depression, has the largest 
Federal budget deficits we have ever had. In the last couple of years 
there have been enormous budget deficits. In fact, the budget was in 
deficit by $1 trillion by the end of June in this fiscal year.

But our colleagues--some of whom voted for all the war funding over 
these last years and voted for the big tax cuts to reduce the 
government's revenue, and all of those issues--are now rushing to the 
floor with everything but suspenders and proclaiming that now the 
deficit is a big problem.

Well, I will tell you why it is a big problem. It is a big problem 
because 10 years ago a lot of folks in here decided to cut the revenue 
steeply, and cut taxes mostly for wealthy Americans, and cut them in a 
very significant way. So the government had less revenue. They did that 
because they believed we


had budget surpluses that were going to exist for 10 years.

We had not had a budget surplus for 30 years in this country. We ran 
deficits for 30 years. Then, all of a sudden, at the end of the Clinton 
administration, we had a budget surplus of a couple hundred billion 
dollars. I am pleased about that because I voted for the economic plan 
that helped create that. We put that in place in the middle 1990s, and 
we got to a budget surplus.

When that happened, in the year 2000 we had a bunch of folks say, 
when a new President came into office in 2001: Do you know what? We 
have a budget surplus. We have a bunch of hotshot economists telling us 
we are going to have budget surpluses as far as the eye can see. We are 
going to have budget surpluses for the next 10 years.

Then Alan Greenspan, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, said 
he could not sleep because he was worried we were going to have 
surpluses too large and we were going to pay down the Federal debt too 
quickly. That is right. I know it sounds like a joke, but the Chairman 
of the Federal Reserve Board worried we would pay down our debt too 
quickly.

So the President came to town in 2001 and said: Let's have very big 
tax cuts, and I and others said: Let's probably not do that because at 
this point we don't know what is going to happen for 10 years. We had 
economists who could not remember their telephone number for 3 hours 
telling us what was going to happen for 10 years.

So they said: We are going to have 10 years of surpluses. Let's have 
very big tax cuts. So the President constructed very big tax cuts, 
mostly for the wealthy, and here we are. What happened as a result of 
that? Well, almost immediately we were in a recession in 2001. Then we 
had a terrorist attack against this country in September of that year. 
Then we were at war in Afghanistan and at war in Iraq and in a war 
against terrorists.

So we sent hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of thousands of 
soldiers abroad, and we rotated them in and out for 8 years and never 
paid for a penny of it because the President said: We are going to 
spend emergency funding, which means we do not pay for it; we just put 
it on the debt. We did that for a decade.

Now, all of a sudden, all the people who voted for the same things--
that is, tax cuts for the wealthy and deciding to send soldiers to war 
without paying for it--now we hear all this bloviation about how the 
debt is important. Well, yes, it is important. It was important when 
they voted to cut taxes for the wealthy as well. It was important when 
we decided to fight two wars and not pay for a penny of it. The fact 
is, it is unsustainable now, and we have to find ways to fix it.

It is interesting, yesterday, I came to the Senate floor because one 
of my colleagues came to the floor and said the priority is to 
eliminate the estate tax. That is the priority. He did not say that. He 
said ''eliminate the death tax'' because a clever pollster said: If you 
say ''death tax,'' it invokes a lot of passion. So we are going to 
eliminate the death tax--not understanding, apparently, or not caring, 
perhaps, that there is no such thing as a death tax.

When you die, there is no tax on your death. In fact, had I been on 
the Senate floor when my colleague mentioned that--I know my colleague 
is married--so I would have asked: God forbid something should happen 
to you. But if it did, tell me what would happen to your estate because 
I know the answer.

The answer is, his spouse would inherit the estate, no matter how 
large, tax free, because we have a 100-percent spousal exemption. So 
that Senator's death would have, obviously, been nontaxable.

So where is the death tax? We do not have a death tax. We never had a 
death tax. We have a tax on inherited wealth. That is what we have. So 
my colleague said, the most important thing at the moment, while we are 
deep in debt in the country--and with a growing debt and a need to 
control the debt--the most important thing at the moment is to get rid 
of the death tax, which means you want to provide tax breaks for 
billionaires.

I did not vote for the proposal in 2001 that put us on a course of 
changing our tax system with very large tax cuts for the wealthy and 
reducing the estate tax obligation so that it came down to having zero 
estate taxes in 2010 and then spring back to a higher estate tax in 
2011. I did not vote for that. I thought it was about half nutty. But 
it passed. Enough people thought, apparently, it was OK, so they voted 
for it.

So now, last year, we had an estate tax that had an exemption of $7 
million for husband and wife--$3.5 million each--and a 45-percent rate.

This year, the estate tax went to zero; that is, nobody has to pay 
any estate tax. So we have had four billionaires die this year. The 
late George Steinbrenner died, the owner of the Yankees. So his estate 
will not be taxed--well over $1 billion.

I have said, this is the ''throw mama from the train year.'' You know 
the movie ''Throw Mama from the Train.'' This is the year--if somebody 
has to go, I guess, especially billionaires, they get to pay no taxes 
this year. Then the estate tax is supposed to spring back to a $1 
million exemption, husband and wife, and a 55-percent rate.

So my colleague and others now say the highest priority for them is 
to eliminate the death tax. This year, we will have lost about $15 
billion in revenue because there is no estate tax. That is just this 
year. Over 10 years, it is a very substantial amount.

Who is going to benefit if you eliminate the estate tax? Well, if 
under last year's law you had to have $7 million in total assets to pay 
an estate tax, how many people would pay it? Very few, less than 1 
percent. In fact, I think it is three-tenths of 1 percent of the 
American people would ever pay an estate tax. Now we are told the 
highest priority is to eliminate the estate tax, which means that 
America's billionaires are going to be given a tax break, and those who 
want to do it say we want to do that because they should not be taxed 
twice. Well, they are not taxed twice.


That estate, in most cases, has never borne a tax. Most of it is 
growth appreciation from stocks or bonds or property and has never 
borne the tax that most people have to pay.

A lot of people get up in the morning and put on their clothes and go 
to work, and they work at a manufacturing job all day--although there 
are fewer these days because we are moving those jobs to China--but 
they get up and go to work and then they come home and they have 
withholding on their paychecks and it says they paid taxes. They have 
to pay taxes for kids to go to school and to build roads and to pay for 
the police and to pay for the Defense Department and so on--the Centers 
for Disease Control. They have to bear a burden as an American citizen 
to help pay for the things we have together.

But if we eliminate the estate tax, we say to, for example, Bill 
Gates--when Bill Gates expires--that $50-some billion or $60-some 
billion of yours, most of which has never had any kind of a tax burden 
at all, we believe it ought to be tax free. That is the highest 
priority?

I used the word ''nutty'' before. Let me state again that is just 
nutty. What are you thinking?

Here is something I quoted yesterday from Will Rogers. Will Rogers, 
80 years ago, had it right, and it certainly applies to some in this 
Chamber for sure. Will Rogers said:




 The unemployed here ain't eating regular, but we'll get 


 around to them as soon as everybody else gets fixed up OK.


Well--do you know what?--go back about 18 months and just figure out 
who got fixed up in this country, who got fixed up OK. Do you think the 
folks at the top of the economic ladder get fixed up? Yes, yes. In 
fact, the lowest unemployment rate in America is those at the top of 
the economic ladder.

There is a pretty low unemployment rate actually in the Senate, now 
that I think of it. We all get up in the morning and put on a white 
shirt and a suit and a tie, and we all eat three meals a day.

But the people at the bottom of the economic ladder--those 5 million 
Americans who have lost the manufacturing jobs, the people who are 
looking for jobs and cannot find them, when we are 20 million jobs 
short; the people who have been laid off, professional people who, in 
many cases, were laid off and have been searching for work for 2 years 
and cannot find it--they are the people who seem somehow forgotten.



So now we have a priority by some in this Chamber of saying we have 
to get rid of the death tax--a tax that does not exist. In a bill they 
filed that would only benefit largely billionaires in this country. It 
is unbelievable. It is just unbelievable.

I do not know, maybe the people who are out of work need to change 
their names. There are names that signify wealth, at least it sounds 
like they are from a family that inherited wealth. But it just seems to 
me to be something that is pretty much in sync with what Will Rogers 
said a long time ago in terms of what is happening here. The people at 
the top get fixed up pretty well, and the rest do not matter much. That 
is a pretty pathetic set of priorities, in my judgement.














Tribal Law and Order Act


Mr. President, I want to say a word about a piece of legislation the 
Senate has passed and the House has passed and ought to make all of us 
feel as if we have done something very admirable and something that is 
going to save lives. So let me do that in a very positive way.

The Tribal Law and Order Act, which we passed--I passed, along with a 
lot of help from the Indian Affairs Committee, and the Senate passed--
now the House has passed that legislation. That will now be signed by 
the President into law.

Why is that important? Well, let me give you an example. On the 
Standing Rock Sioux Indian Reservation--that straddles North Dakota and 
South Dakota--the rate of violent crime is not double or triple the 
national rate of violent crime. That would be pretty tough to live in a 
neighborhood where you have double or triple the national rate of 
violent crime. It is eight times the rate of violent crime for the rest 
of the country.

Live in that circumstance. Be a young child going to school or be an 
elder trying to get along and live in a neighborhood, live on a 
reservation, live in a circumstance where the rate of violent crime is 
eight times the national average. The stories we have heard at the 
hearings we have held are unbelievable.

On the Standing Rock Sioux Indian Reservation--it is almost the size 
of the State of Connecticut--they had nine full-time police officers to 
patrol over two million acres of land. It is not possible to do a good 
job with so few officers. In one area of that reservation, a violent 
sexual rape, a crime in progress, a robbery, and a call to the police 
might get someone there later that day, or it might be the next 
morning, or days later--nine police officers to patrol that land 24/7. 
That does not work.

We have passed a piece of legislation that I think is very good, the 
tribal law and order bill. It is bipartisan. I am proud of that. 
Senators Jon Kyl and John Barrasso worked with me to get this 
legislation through the Senate. Let me mention cosponsors Jon Tester, 
Max Baucus, Mark Begich, Michael Bennet, Jeff Bingaman, Barbara Boxer, 
Maria Cantwell, Mike Crapo, Al Franken, Tim Johnson, Joe Lieberman, 
Jeff Merkley, Lisa Murkowski, Patty Murray, Debbie Stabenow, John 
Thune, Mark Udall, Tom Udall, Ron Wyden--so many. But there are so many 
who worked so long to try to respond to these problems.

The legislation deals with cross-deputization of law enforcement 
officers on Indian reservations and those off the reservation. We deal 
with the tribal court system and a wide range of provisions that we put 
in this legislation that are going to make a very big difference.

I have said on the floor previously that violence against American 
Indian and Alaska Native women has reached epidemic levels. We have 
heard it in the hearings and the testimony. One in three American 
Indian and Alaska Native women will be the victim of rape during her 
lifetime--one in three. That is an epidemic of violence.

We held 14 hearings in the Committee on Indian Affairs, which I 
chair, relating to public safety on Indian lands over the past 3 years. 
I had staff go across the Nation consulting with tribal governments and 
local law enforcement. Based on those consultations, we put together a 
piece of legislation that I think will make a very big difference. It 
strengthens the tribal justice system. It provides tools to law 
enforcement officers on the Indian reservations.

It will require the U.S. Attorney's Office to do its job. Violent 
crimes on Indian reservations are to be prosecuted by the U.S. 
Attorney's Offices, and in most cases those offices are many, many 
miles away from a reservation. Crime on Indian reservations becomes 
just a part of the backwater of work in those offices. We have 
information that 50 percent of murder cases on Indian reservations are 
declined for prosecution. They call them declinations. Think of that. 
In 50 percent of the cases, there is a declination of prosecution for 
the charge of murder. Nearly three-fourths of the cases for sexual 
assault are declined to be prosecuted. That is not fair, it is not 
tolerable, and we shouldn't stand for it.

We had a hearing with Chairman Herman Dillon of the Puyallup Tribe in 
Washington, who testified about the gang activity crisis on their 
reservation. There are 28 active gangs on that reservation, with 
members as young as 8 years old. The gangs are involved in drug 
trafficking, weapons sales, and turf wars where innocent bystanders are 
injured. This piece of legislation is going to increase the number of 
law enforcement personnel on reservations and provide better law 
enforcement training for those personnel.

I won't go through the stories we have heard, but they are 
unbelievable. There are a whole lot of victims out there living in 
Third World conditions on Indian reservations where they have 
inadequate health care, housing, and education. We have worked on all 
of those issues.

I am proud to say we passed the Indian Health Care Improvement Act 
earlier this year. It is now signed into law. We did that this year. It 
is the first time in 17 years that the Congress has dealt with those 
issues.

Now we have passed the Tribal Law and Order Act. This is the most 
significant of policy changes and legislation affecting the first 
Americans that has been passed in decades. I want to say to my 
Republican and Democratic colleagues who worked with me to accomplish 
this that I believe lives will be saved because of this legislation. I 
believe this will make a profound difference across this country in 
addressing these critical issues.

We have had hearings about Mexican drug cartels now running drugs 
through Indian reservations. I just described the circumstances of 
gangs.

There is so much that needs to be done. Finally, at last--at long, 
long last--we start down the road of improvement by having passed this 
legislation. I talked to President Obama yesterday and mentioned the 
passage by the U.S. House of our bill. He campaigned on this issue. It 
was very strongly supported legislation, and I know he will take great 
pride in signing it.

Finally, with all of the competition and tension, sometimes, between 
the House and the Senate, let me say how much I appreciate the work the 
House of Representatives did on this legislation.

Let me make one final point about Indian policy as I complete my 
statement. There is one other issue that is out there that I think 
desperately needs to be resolved, and that is something called the 
Cobell lawsuit. It has been languishing for 15 years. Last December, 
there was an agreement reached between the U.S. Government and the 
Indians in the Cobell case. We were given 30 days in the Congress to 
approve the settlement, and it has not happened. We must, must, must 
find a way to make that happen soon.

I showed a picture of a woman living on an Indian reservation with 
oil wells that were hers that she could see from her house, and she 
lived in a very small house. Why is that the case? Because she didn't 
get the money from the oil wells she owned. The U.S. Government created 
trust accounts for Indians, and manipulated those trusts, stole from 
those trusts, lost the records from those trusts over 150 years, and 
that is what resulted in this lawsuit called the Cobell lawsuit. It has 
gone on for 15 years, and a good many Indians have died while that 
lawsuit has gone on who should have benefitted from that lawsuit.

There was a settlement agreement reached last December between the 
parties. We were given 30 days by the Federal court to approve the 
agreement, and now it is 6 months later and


nothing has happened. The first Americans don't deserve this treatment. 
I hope very soon that the Cobell settlement will be a part of a piece 
of legislation that is passed by the Senate.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.