---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `0231a5989ac293f4dfe250b039100a2a`
`Mr. DORGAN — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, we are considering the supplemental 
appropriations bill. I spoke earlier about the agricultural disaster 
piece in that bill. I believe other colleagues will be over to talk 
about that as well. My colleague, Senator Feinstein from California, 
just finished discussing it. She was a major cosponsor of it. I have 
indicated previously that my colleague, Senator Conrad, is coming. He 
worked to create a coalition of interest and support of the 
agricultural disaster piece. So when others come, I expect we will have 
more discussion about this important issue.

I wish to talk for a moment about the supplemental appropriations 
bill and the issue of Iraq. Earlier, one of my colleagues was 
describing the issue of Iraq and the controversy that the Congress 
might get involved and somehow interfere and that there cannot be 535 
commanders in chief. I understand that. I wish to make a couple of 
points about Iraq, however.

The issue of Iraq, as you know, casts a shadow on virtually 
everything else in this country. We are spending, in terms of the lives 
of American soldiers and America's treasure, an unbelievable amount 
with respect to the war in Iraq. All of us want this country to 
succeed. There is nobody here who doesn't want America to succeed in 
whatever we are involved in.

I wish to make this point: The National Intelligence Estimate has 
just been completed. There is a classified and an unclassified version. 
The unclassified version tells all of us and the American people that 
what is happening in Iraq is largely sectarian violence. It is not a 
fight against the ''terrorists.'' It is sectarian violence--Shia


trying to kill Sunni, Sunni trying to kill Shia. That is a civil war by 
classic definition. That is what we face in Iraq. There is an al-Qaida 
presence in Al Anbar Province. We understand that. What is happening 
there is largely a civil war.

Now, the head of our intelligence services in this country testified 
twice. The former head, Mr. Negroponte, and the current head have 
testified within the last 2/1/2/ months. Both of them have said exactly 
the same thing. They have both said the greatest terrorist threat to 
this country is al-Qaida, its networks around the world, and its 
determination to strike us in our homeland. So the greatest threat to 
our homeland is from the terrorist group al-Qaida. Both have described 
al-Qaida as operating in a safe hideaway in northern Pakistan.

If the greatest threat to our country is al-Qaida, if the leadership 
of al-Qaida is directing threats against our homeland and they are in a 
secure hideaway in northern Pakistan, if that is the greatest threat to 
our homelend, and if, in fact, what is happening in Iraq, according to 
the National Intelligence Estimate, is a civil war, then I think the 
question is, What better protects our country? Is it beginning to 
extract from a civil war? After all, the Iraqi people have seen Saddam 
Hussein executed. They have seen the opportunity to vote for their own 
new Constitution. They have been given the opportunity to vote for 
their own new Government. The only question remaining is, Do those same 
people have the will to provide for their own security? So the question 
is, What better protects our country? Is it the opportunity to extract 
from a civil war at some point soon or is it the determination to 
ignore the presence of the al-Qaida leadership in northern Pakistan?

If we begin to withdraw and extract from a civil war in Iraq, do we 
then have a better capability to keep our eye on the ball, the greatest 
threat to our country, the leadership of al-Qaida and their network 
around the world? If that were the case, wouldn't this country wish to 
begin to take action against the greatest threat to our homeland and 
threat to our security, the leadership of al-Qaida?

That is not me describing that. That is from the National 
Intelligence Estimate, the combined judgment of the intelligence 
communities in our Government.

You can make a pretty strong case that Osama bin Laden, who boasted 
about murdering innocent Americans on 9/11/2001--he still speaks to us 
from time to time from a ''secure hideaway,'' as described by the head 
of our intelligence. Al-Zawahiri and Osama bin Laden, after all of 
these years having passed since 9/11, still exist. Their leadership 
apparently is still intact, according to the head of our national 
intelligence services. We generally know where they are. They are 
apparently in a country that is supposed to be cooperating with us--
Pakistan.

The question is, Why have we not brought to justice the leadership of 
al-Qaida, if that is our greatest threat? The answer, I suppose, is 
because this country has 140,000-plus soldiers in Iraq prosecuting a 
war in the middle of what is now a civil war in Iraq.

We can debate forever, perhaps, the conditions that got us to this 
point--terrible intelligence, the most unbelievable intelligence 
failure, perhaps, in the history of this country. This country told the 
world that the country of Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction 
that threatened America. Now it turns out, we understand, to take one 
example, that the issue of mobile chemical weapons laboratories--that 
intelligence was given to us by German authorities. That came from a 
fabricator who is now alleged to have been a drunk--a single source, 
perhaps drunk, fabricator persuades this country to tell the world Iraq 
has mobile chemical labs. But it turns out they didn't.

I could go on at great length about the intelligence failures. 
Whatever the intelligence failures were, we went to Iraq. This country 
went to Iraq, and a number of things have happened. We have unearthed 
mass graves. Several hundred thousand Iraqis were murdered by a brutal 
regime headed by Saddam Hussein. There are a number of brutal regimes 
in this world. We don't take it upon ourselves--unless it is in our 
national interest--to send troops to those brutal regimes. But Saddam 
Hussein was, in fact, a brutal dictator. He has been executed. The 
world is better for that. The country of Iraq has shed itself of a 
brutal dictator. His execution comes amid other opportunities for the 
people of Iraq. They have a constitution, a brandnew one; they wrote it 
and voted for it. They have a new government. They have created and 
voted for that government. And now we have tens and tens and tens of 
thousands of American soldiers in Iraq, in the middle of a civil war.

We have taken our eye off the ball because the issue really is the 
terrorist organizations that wish to commit acts of terror against our 
country. The head of our national intelligence says that al-Qaida is 
the greatest terrorist threat to our country. They are in secure 
hideaways in northern Pakistan. It seems to me that the ability to 
begin to extract ourselves from the middle of a civil war in Iraq gives 
us the opportunity to put pressure on and work with other countries to 
bring to justice the greatest terrorist threat to this country, the 
terrorist organization that murdered Americans on 9/11/2001. That ought 
to be our overriding goal. If that is the greatest terrorist threat, it 
seems to me our most important job is to eliminate that threat, and 
sooner rather than later.


So I end where I began. No one in this Chamber has a difference of 
opinion about whether we want our country to succeed. We love our 
country, and we want to succeed. We honor our soldiers, and we insist, 
when we send America's sons and daughters to war, that they have all 
the things they need and the support they need to do their job. But 
from a policy perspective, I believe this President has made very 
serious mistakes.

One of my colleagues, this morning, said the general will tell us 
whether things are going well. I cannot tell you how many briefings I 
have been in--top-secret briefings--month after month after month and 
year after year in which the top generals have come to us and said 
things are going really very well, when, in fact, that hasn't been the 
case. Only later have we discovered it was not the case; it never was 
the case.

It seems to me that this country has to evaluate what it can do at 
this point to begin to find a way to withdraw and extract from a civil 
war in Iraq. Perhaps there needs to be partitioning, I don't know. I 
know that is a tough subject to introduce these days. But if there are 
no alternatives, perhaps you have to partition the parties fighting 
each other, the Sunnis and Shias, and try to find another device to 
deal with the issue.

In any event, it seems to me it is in this country's best interest to 
keep our eye on the ball, and the ball here is, according to head of 
our intelligence, that the greatest terrorist threat to our country is 
the leadership of al-Qaida and their network. We have not, in my 
judgment, with respect to al-Qaida and the deepening problems of the 
Taliban in Afghanistan, kept our eye on the ball. That is one of the 
reasons there needs to be a change.

This notion of ''stay the course'' or ''cut and run,'' which was the 
slogan--there is the slogan of the week or the slogan of the month. The 
administration's slogan of the month last year was ''stay the course'' 
or ''cut and run.'' It was always a false choice that was never a 
substitute for thoughtful debate. It was a thoughtless chant of things 
that mattered very little.

What matters most to this country is that we are engaged in pursuits 
which will provide opportunity to strengthen this country, which do 
honor and justice to the efforts of our soldiers, and which relate to 
responding to the terrorist threat because the threat against this 
country is a very serious, abiding, long-term threat. All of us want to 
succeed in dealing with that threat.

Mr. President, one of my colleagues, Senator Conrad, has arrived. I 
think he intends to speak on this agricultural disaster issue. Let me 
at this point yield the floor, and I think other colleagues will speak 
on the agricultural disaster piece I spoke on earlier.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.