---
---

# None
## `0257c189baaafab097b00cad81d51862`
`Mr. REID — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, another day in Iraq. Today American 
taxpayers' dollars will be spent in Iraq, almost a half a billion 
dollars. More than $400 million will be spent today in Iraq.

Here is what we get from it as seen by--you pick about any 
newspaper--the Washington Post, which was at my doorstep this morning: 
''Suicide Bomber Hits Bus in Iraq's North, Killing at Least Eight.''

A suicide bomber detonated his explosive belt outside a bus in 
Northern Iraq on Tuesday, killing at least eight people, injuring at 
least eight others.

You drop down, it tells about all of the violence.

The Tall Afar bombing followed a bloody weekend of attacks against 
Shiite pilgrims, the deadly incident taking place Sunday when a suicide 
bomber killed at least 63.

As we learned yesterday, that one blast injured more than 100. You 
drop down in this news article:

Even as overall violence has fallen, the recent attacks underscore 
the tenuous security environment and the resiliency of the insurgency.

In volatile Diyala Province, it goes on to explain how 21 people were 
kidnaped yesterday. At the bottom of the page, it has the names of 
three of our soldiers who were killed. And then, of course, we have 
General Casey. General Casey, the Army Chief of Staff, said yesterday 
in testimony before the Armed Services Committee:

The cumulative effect of the last 6 years plus at war have left our 
Army out of balance, consumed by the current fight and unable to do the 
things we know we need to do.

We have had some good debate. My Republican colleagues think the war 
is going great. I think they are certainly entitled to their opinion. 
But it has been a good debate. We, of course, have spent time on Iraq 
on this side of the aisle, but also on how the war has done so much to 
damage our security and our economy.

There is a book coming out tomorrow or the next day that talks 
about--it is by Mr. Stiglitz, who is a Pulitzer Prize winner--maybe 
Nobel; I think Nobel. It is called ''The $3 Trillion Mistake.''

The book is on the war. Now, in actual numbers that I understand, in 
about a year they will be up to $1 trillion. Mr. Stiglitz, an 
economist, far smarter than I am, says it is $3 trillion. That is what 
we have talked about. This war that will soon be going into the sixth 
year has been devastating to our country.

We had a meeting that just took place about the budget. The 
President's budget cuts virtually everything. One of the victims in his 
budget is Public Broadcasting, cut by 70 percent. I talked to Senator 
Conrad as we were leaving. I said: What did you do with Public 
Broadcasting?

We restored the money.

And even restoring it takes into consideration some of the cuts the 
President has made in that program over the 7 years he has been 
President.

We do not have money to do the basics this country needs to do 
because we have borrowed $1 trillion to take care of the war.

So we have had a good debate. Each side has spent a little over 3 
hours discussing these issues. I believe there has


been sufficient debate on the motion to proceed.

I ask unanimous consent that all postcloture time be yielded back and 
the motion to proceed be agreed to; that the Senate now vote on the 
motion to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to S. 2634, and that 
if cloture is invoked, notwithstanding rule XXII, the Senate 
immediately proceed to vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the 
motion to proceed to H.R. 3221, the vehicle we will use for the housing 
market crisis.