---
---

# None
## `025724f62d3f250c22926debe800199e`
`Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

I rise today to speak on H. Res. 734, a resolution about corruption 
in Iraq.

Corruption, the theft of public resources for private gain, saps the 
life out of everything it touches. The fact that official corruption 
has long undermined government effectiveness and public confidence in 
Iraq and throughout the Middle East should come as no news to anyone. 
But no one believes rampant corruption is inevitable or tolerable in 
Iraq. Republicans don't support corruption, Democrats don't support 
corruption, so the pace and reach of our efforts to help the Iraqis 
prevent, deter, investigate and punish corruption in their struggling 
democracy should be one thing, perhaps the only thing, about our policy 
in Iraq that we can agree on.

But we were never given the chance to agree. The language of this 
resolution has never been considered by any committee. Why not? Just 
last week, four House Committee chairmen wrote to the Secretary of 
State asking for her cooperation in ''finding solutions'' to corruption 
in Iraq. So those committees apparently have an interest in the issues 
raised by the resolution. But none of them ever considered this 
language. Why not? Because this resolution is just the latest find in 
the frantic search for proxy antiwar votes that the leadership has 
staged to feed an increasingly restive left wing of their party. Unable 
to prevail directly, they ignore regular order and nibble around the 
edges with symbols, surrogates, and sense of Congress resolutions.

In this political environment, it almost doesn't matter how we vote 
since the resolution means so little and accomplishes even less. But, 
fairly or not, as has been voiced by several Members on the other side, 
a ''no'' vote would be portrayed as ''pro-corruption.'' That's 
unfortunate, and it didn't have to be that way.

Both the committee majority and the State Department have gone out of 
their way to politicize the discussion of corruption in Iraq. This 
resolution cherry-picks statements from our hearing testimony and tries 
to pick a fight with the Secretary of State over access to certain 
information. I offered a substitute to try to bring some balance and 
perspective to this resolution, but it was rejected by the majority in 
the Rules Committee. I will talk more about that substitute later.

For its part, the State Department's process for answering our 
inquiries about anticorruption assistance to Iraq has been sluggish and 
poorly thought out. When requested documents failed to show up, we 
didn't demand a committee vote on subpoenas the chairman decided to 
send to the Department. It's a separation of powers issue. The 
committee has a right to timely and meaningful access to information 
about executive branch programs and operations. The Department then 
classified information already, irretrievably, in the public domain. As 
a result of that decision, they felt compelled to limit open discussion 
on what everybody already knows about corruption in Iraq.

Had the State Department witness at our hearing said to the committee 
what Ambassador Satterfield said in today's Washington Post, broadly 
speaking about the Iraqi Government's political will to fight 
corruption, we might not have needed to consider this resolution at 
all.

Nevertheless, this is obviously not a resolution I'd bring to the 
floor to assert our constitutional rights. Both the process and the 
product tend to trivialize a serious and pernicious problem by reducing 
it to the terms of a spat over what State Department employees can say 
in an open forum and classification of a few sentences and two reports. 
It's a transparent attempt to draw the Secretary of State into a highly 
visible, but completely avoidable, conflict with the Oversight 
Committee.

What is the House being asked to ''resolve'' in this resolution? That 
we should know ''the extent of corruption in Iraq''? That it was wrong 
to ''retroactively classify'' two draft State Department reports that 
had never been reviewed for sensitive information before? That it's an 
abuse of the classification process to ''withhold'' broad, unverified 
assessments of a foreign government by low-level State Department 
employees? And that a ''directive'' limiting discussion of potentially 
sensitive matters to a closed setting should be rescinded? Let me take 
them one by one.

The phrase ''the extent of corruption in Iraq'' is used several 
times. In truth, it's code for the unspoken conclusion that if we only 
knew the real level of corruption, we would all conclude Iraq could 
never stand on its own. But contrary to what this resolution implies, 
it's no secret there is widespread corruption in Iraq. We concede that. 
It's sadly well documented, from the scandalous Oil-for-Food Program in 
the 1990s to present-day diversion of oil revenues. Corruption is a 
critical concern to the United States Government, to the Iraqi 
Government, and to the Iraqi people.

No amount of handwringing or feigned indignation can avoid the hard 
truth that the United States did not bring corruption to Iraq, and it 
won't stop when we leave. And no spreadsheet or corruption clock will 
ever give us the real-time cost of bribes and the real-time cost of 
graft there.

Focusing on the extent of corruption rather than the extent of 
anticorruption efforts betrays a desire to publicize corruption, not 
help fix it.

On the classification question, in all honesty, I have my doubts 
whether the State Department's reports should have been classified. A 
sloppy process in Baghdad leaked them; they're on the Internet right 
now. It's probably counterproductive to put that genie back in the 
bottle. The Department simply should have said, ''The reports got out. 
Our mistake. But they represent only the collected anecdotes and flavor 
added by the authors and were not official policy statements of the 
United States.'' That could have avoided the whole fight over 
classification, but they didn't do it.

On the question of ''withholding'' information, there is a 
difference, and in my judgment an important difference, between hiding 
information and simply exercising appropriate caution and good 
management in deciding who makes official statements about U.S. 
relations with another sovereign state and where those statements are 
made.

More determined to be aggrieved than informed, the committee refused 
repeated efforts and offers to question witnesses in a setting that 
could permit us to discuss sensitive and classified information.

If anything constructive comes out of passage of this resolution, I 
hope it's to refocus and reenergize State Department anticorruption 
efforts in Iraq. They need it. That might not be the goal of all those 
that are voting for this resolution, but it's my goal in voting for it, 
and it's the only positive outcome that I can see.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.