---
---

# CODY GRATER POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `025cbe444353a9951d742e740217e7fd`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 1 April 2008`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. I thank the gentleman for 
recognizing me.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, H.R. 5168, which 
will rename the post office on Cortez Boulevard in Brooksville, 
Florida, after Private First Class Cody Grater. Cody was a resident 
from my district who lived in Spring Hill. He gave the ultimate 
sacrifice, his life, for his country while serving in Iraq.

Cody Grater joined the Army in 2006 when he was only 19 years old. 
Actually, my grandson went to high school with him, so this tragedy 
certainly did hit home with our family. Cody was proud to be serving 
his country and hoped to make a career out of his service in the Army. 
By the time of his death in July 2007, Cody had received the Purple 
Heart, the Bronze Star Medal, the Combat Action Badge and many other 
honors.

While serving on guard duty in Baghdad, the rooftop where Cody stood 
guard was struck by a rocket-propelled grenade. Just two weeks earlier, 
Cody been on leave in Florida with his family, where he was telling 
people about his previous experiences in Iraq, sharing it with his 
friends, family and former high school mates. Even though he was just 
at the halfway point of his tour of duty, Cody expressed plans to 
reenlist after his initial service in the Army was completed.

I hope that this act of renaming the post office will memorialize 
Cody's brave and selfless life. Cody Grater epitomizes the courage and 
patriotism of our volunteer military, and we must never forget his 
great sacrifice to our Nation.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill, which rightfully honors 
Cody Grater.