# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `02676269dadb9d76b81d7f0641e39a59`
`Mr. ARCURI — 22 January 2007`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Arkansas.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice my strong opposition to this 
administration's call for 21,000 new troops in the surge in Iraq. As 
one of three New Yorkers in the Blue Dog Coalition, I am very proud of 
the position that the Blue Dog Coalition takes with respect to 
identifying issues of fiscal responsibility. They have done that very 
thing with the war.

There are many, many reasons why we shouldn't be involved in the war 
in Iraq, and the Blue Dogs have pointed out one additional reason for 
that in terms of the cost that this war has and the way it has burdened 
our country.

When I talk to people in my district, they always ask me, why are we 
spending so much money on the war, when we have such great needs for 
education or for health care or for housing? Those are all issues that 
people are very concerned about; yet we continue to spend billions and 
billions of dollars on a very unpopular war.

My other concern with respect to this war and this operation in Iraq 
is the fact that our Army is an army that is a volunteer army, which 
means that in order for us to continue to defend our country and to get 
the numbers that we need in the Armed Forces, we need to have high 
numbers of volunteers. Yet with this protracted engagement that we are 
involved in now in Iraq, it continues to lower morale and makes it more 
and more difficult to attract troops and to attract recruits to our 
military.

I am very humbled when I hear my colleague Patrick Murphy, a real 
patriot, a veteran of Iraq, get up here and speak and talk from his 
heart about the things that he experienced while he was in Iraq. It 
concerns me, because I believe that this war and this engagement in 
Iraq is doing more to hurt the morale of our military than any other 
operation that we have seen in recent history. It concerns me because I 
hear different anecdotal stories from people in my district. There is 
one I would like to share with you.

Mr. Speaker, a constituent of mine who was a very patriotic young man 
enlisted in the armed services and actually did three tours of duty. He 
did one in Afghanistan and two in Iraq. He was wounded and received the 
Purple Heart and received a Bronze Star.

After his last tour in Iraq, he was ready to leave the military. He 
talked to his people in his outfit, and they asked him if he would stay 
and help to train troops in a non-deployment type of position 
stateside. Being the patriotic person that he is, he agreed to do that.

The problem for him was that because of the buildup and because of 
the steps that are being taken now, he was


told that he would no longer be able to continue in a nondeployment 
type of position, but would rather have to go into a third tour of duty 
in Iraq. It put a huge strain on him. It put a huge strain on his 
family.

These are the kinds of concerns that we have when it comes to the 
morale and when it comes to the future of our military.



And speaking from myself, I would just like to say that I believe 
that this type of action and this type of activity puts a huge strain 
on our military.

I strongly support the efforts of the Blue Dog Coalition because I 
believe that they point out the things that we need to do as a country. 
We are talking about a resolution that will create a Truman type of 
committee that will help to oversee efforts and oversee different 
actions which are taking place by different contractors in Iraq. So I 
am very pleased to be here today to talk on behalf of the Blue Dog 
Coalition.