# None
## `026c7f26584f029013dc875399cdf3bb`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 4 June 2008`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me this 
opportunity. I want to speak very briefly about this bill. This is a 
very, very important bill. It is critical to the future of education of 
our young people.

Let me start out by letting you know how important this is to my 
State of Georgia, and especially the metro Atlanta area. The metro 
Atlanta area is the third fastest growing child population in this 
country. Some 120,000 school children will enter area schools over the 
next 5 years. They need additional space. They're meeting in trailers. 
They're meeting in broken down buildings. They need help.

Now, Madam Chairman, I just came from a trip from Afghanistan and 
Iraq, and I'm very proud to say our soldiers are doing a wonderful job 
and all of our contractors are doing a wonderful job. They come to tell 
us, oh, we're doing great, we're building these many schools, we're 
building these many hospitals, which is wonderful, but then to come 
back here and to see us crawling and falling back instead of going 
forward to do the same thing for our own people. Not since 2001, 7 
years ago, was the last time we even gave direct Federal aid to the 
States and the counties of our Nation to build schools, to help repair 
schools.

This bill is important because not only does it build schools, it 
builds them in a way that helps our environment, it builds them in a 
way that preserves our energy, cuts down on emissions that help global 
warming. It is an effective measure, Madam Chairman. It is a bill we 
must pass, and the time to do it is now.