# ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
## `026c862dab8bc7550304edf8045d2414`
`Ms. MURKOWSKI — 9 December 2010`

---

 Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, for the past 2 years I have had 
the honor and the privilege of joining with my colleague from Rhode 
Island, Mr. Reed, and other colleagues, in bringing before the Senate a 
resolution honoring those who are serving and have served in Airborne 
units of our armed services on the occasion of National Airborne Day. 
Albert Caswell, an employee of the Capitol Guide Service, has penned a 
poem in honor of a member of the 82nd Airborne Division, SGT Jared 
Lemon who is recovering from injuries suffered from the detonation of 
an Improvised Explosive Device while deployed to Afghanistan. I ask 
that this poem be printed in the Record.

The material follows:

















Airborne



 Airborne!


 Men of Honor, who wear that uniform. . . .


 Strength In Honor, who march on!


 An Alaskan son. . . a Freedom Fighter, Jared this one


 Who marched off to war, to do what must be done!


 All there, walking through the valley of death. . . .


 Where courage crests!


 As upon a battlefield of honor, lie dying. . . .


 With his Brother in Arms Joseph, heroically dead beside him. 





 . . .


 As with tears he would find then!


 As on the morning he awoke. . . .


 As to him his fine heart so spoke. . . .


 So spoke to him. . . .


 About living for his fallen brother, whose blood that binds 





 them!


 As his new battle had begun!


 To rebuild, as to new heights his great Alaskan heart would 





 run!


 And even though he had lost an arm, to heights he has flown!


 For he's Airborne!


 With a heart so bold, so warm!


 For no mountain is too big to climb!


 For there are new frontiers, in his heart which appears. . . 





 .


 Bringing us all to such tears!


 For he's Airborne!


 As yes Jared you so march on!


 The 82nd, lock and load. . . .


 As a man who so lives, so lives by such a most heroic code!


 One of such selfless, as have all of those!


 America's men and women in uniform!


 Who are Airborne. . . .


 As where the face of courage is worn!


 And if I ever had a son. . . .


 I but wish, that he could but be as heroic you Jared, the 





 one!


 For Jared, you will Teach Us, Reach Us and so Beseech Us!


 For you are Airborne!
