# ROLE OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY
## `0271869bb40f14972e500ae6aec64737`
`Mr. KYL — 1 February 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, first let me compliment my colleague, Senator 
Bunning, for a fine statement. I endorse his call for unity. In a time 
of war, a country needs to be unified, especially when we send our 
young men and women into harm's way. They need to know we support the 
mission that we put them in harm's way to try to achieve.

I remember years ago I used to see bumper stickers that said, ''Give 
peace a chance.'' Today we need to dust off some of those bumper 
stickers, write a couple of extra words in, and give the President's 
plan for peace a chance. We are going to have a debate next week among 
those who believe the President's plan deserves a chance to succeed and 
those who disagree. I believe the latter position is dangerous, and it 
would be dangerous to express that point of view with a vote of the 
Senate in support of a resolution to that effect, especially since it 
appears people whom we have relied on in the past for advice are also 
now saying give the President's plan a chance and because events on the 
ground are beginning to suggest that his plan is already beginning to 
work.

There has been a great deal of discussion about the Baker-Hamilton 
report. Critics of the President's plan have frequently held that 
report up as evidence that we need to take a different course of 
action. But yesterday, appearing before the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee, former Secretary of State James Baker and former Member of 
the House of Representatives Lee Hamilton both argued that the 
President's plan should be given a chance to succeed.

Maybe that surprised the chairman, but here is what they testified. 
Representative Hamilton:




 So I guess my bottom line on the surge is, look, the 


 President's plan ought to be given a chance. Give it a 


 chance, because we heard all of this. The general that you 


 confirmed 80-to-nothing the day before yesterday, this is his 


 idea. He's the supporter of it. Give it a chance.


That is Lee Hamilton.

Former Senator and Secretary of State Baker said:




 . . . the study group set no timetables and we set no 


 deadlines. We believe that military commanders must have the 


 flexibility to respond to events on the ground.


And he said, in response to a Senator:




 Senator, one of the purposes of the surge, as I'm sure you 


 have heard from General Petraeus, when you confirmed him, is 


 to give the Iraqi government a little more running room in 


 order to help it achieve national reconciliation by tamping 


 down the violence or pacifying, if you will, Baghdad.


That is the purpose of this strategy.

As I said, there is already evidence, even though the strategy has 
certainly not been implemented in full, that even the prospect of its 
implementation is beginning to have an effect. It is clear the Iraqi 
Government, in its pronouncements, has already begun to sound a lot 
different to these terrorists than they did in the past, when the Iraqi 
Government didn't always back up the U.S. efforts. When we would go 
into an area, we would capture these killers, and a couple of days 
later they would be back on the street because somebody with political 
influence in Iraq would see that it happened.

The idea is the Iraqis are now going to take charge and not allow 
that to happen. And in addition to U.S. troops, there will be twice as 
many new Iraqi troops helping to make sure it does not happen. Here are 
a few excerpts from the news media.

From the Washington Post, February 1, 2007:




 Shiite militia leaders already appear to be leaving their 


 strongholds in Baghdad in anticipation of the U.S. and Iraqi 


 plan to increase the troop presence in the Iraqi capital, 


 according to the top U.S. commander in the country.


He said:




 We have seen numerous indications Shia militia leaders will 


 leave, or already have left, Sadr City to avoid capture by 


 Iraqi and coalition security forces,'' Army Gen. George W. 


 Casey Jr. said in a written statement submitted to the Senate 


 Armed Services Committee as part of his confirmation hearing 


 today to be the Army chief of staff.


Already beginning to work. The article continues:




 Radical Shiite cleric Moqtada Sadr has ordered his militia 


 not to confront U.S. forces and has endorsed negotiations 


 aimed at easing the deployment of American troops in his 


 strongholds, according to Sadrist and other Shiite 


 officials. This is the idea. In Anbar Province, where the 


 pressure from al-Qaida has been very strong, there is now 


 news that the sheiks in Anbar Province are beginning to 


 work with us. Just one report from the Washington Post of 


 January 27:



 With the help of a confederation of about 50 Sunni Muslim 


 tribal sheiks, the U.S. military recruited more than 800 


 police officers in December and is on track to do the same 


 this month. Officers credit the sheiks' cooperation for the 


 diminishing violence in Ramadi, the capital of Anbar 


 province.


We have just mounted a big offensive with the Iraqi military in 
Najaf, and I quote from a Washington Post story of January 29:




 Iraqi soldiers, backed by U.S. helicopters, stormed an 


 encampment of hundreds of insurgents hiding among date palm 


 orchards in southern Iraq in an operation Sunday and set off 


 fierce, day-long gun battles during the holiest week for the 


 country's Shiite Muslims. Iraqi security officials said that 


 the troops killed scores of insurgents while foiling a plot 


 to annihilate the Shiite religious leadership in the revered 


 city of Najaf.


There is also political movement in the country. Let me quote from a 
story from the Los Angeles Times of February 1:




 Sunni and Shiite Arab lawmakers announced plans Wednesday 


 to form two new blocs in Iraq's parliament they hope will 


 break away from the ethnic and religious mold of current 


 alliances and ease sectarian strife.


There has also been a lot of talk about whether the mission of our 
forces should be one of which is to help secure the borders. This is 
something else that the Iraqis have pledged that they need to do, 
particularly in their relationships with Syria and Iran. Quoting from 
the same Los Angeles Times story:




 Iraq indefinitely halted all flights to and from Syria and 


 closed a border crossing with Iran as the government prepares 


 for a security crackdown, a parliament member and an airport 


 official said Wednesday, the Associated Press reported. The 


 airport official said that flights to and from Syria would be 


 cancelled for at least two weeks and that service had been 


 interrupted on Tuesday. Hassan al-Sunneid, a member of the 


 parliament's defense and security committee, told the AP that 


 ''the move was in preparation for the security plan. The 


 State will decide when the flights will resume.''


So it is already beginning. No resolution passed here in the Senate 
is going to stop this new strategy. It appears to already be having 
some success. My only concern is the disagreement of some of our 
colleagues that it can't succeed will become a self-fulfilling 
prophecy, merely because it could embolden our enemies and cause our 
allies to wonder whether we still have the will to continue until we 
have achieved our mission in Iraq. But perhaps the message I am most 
concerned about that these resolutions would send is not only to the 
enemy and to our allies, but to our own troops and to their families.

There has been quite a bit of discussion of a news report on the NBC 
Nightly News last Friday, Brian Williams reporting, who specifically 
called upon Richard Engel, who was in Iraq, to report on what he had 
found there. I will work through his report, but here is what Engel 
said:




 It's not just the new mission the soldiers are adjusting 


 to. They have something else on their minds: The growing 


 debate at home about the war. Troops here say they are 


 increasingly frustrated by American criticism of the war. 


 Many take it personally, believing it is also criticism of 


 what they have been fighting for. Twenty-one year-old SP 


 Tyler Johnson is on his first tour in Iraq. He thinks 


 skeptics should come over and see what it is like firsthand 


 before criticizing.


Here is what SP Tyler Johnson then said on the TV news.




 Those people are dying. You know what I'm saying? You may 


 support--''Oh, we support the troops,'' but you're not 


 supporting what they do, what they share and sweat for, what 


 they believe for, and what we die for. It just don't make 


 sense to me.


Richard Engel then said:




 Staff SGT Manuel Sahagun has served in Afghanistan and is 


 now on his second tour in Iraq. He says people back home 


 can't have it both ways.


And now Staff SGT Manuel Sahagun is on the camera and says:




 One thing I don't like is when people back home say they 


 support the troops, but they don't support the war. If 


 they're going to support us, support us all the way.


And then Engel says:




 SP Peter Manna thinks people have forgotten the toll the 


 war has taken.





And SP Peter Manna says:




 If they don't think what we are doing is a good job, 


 everything that we have done here is all in vain.


Engel concludes:




 Apache Company has lost two soldiers and now worries their 


 country may be abandoning the mission they died for.


We cannot send that message to our troops and to their families, that 
we disagree with the mission we are putting them in harm's way to try 
to achieve. As these three young men, our finest, have said, speaking 
to the American people: You can't say you support the troops if you 
don't support what we are trying to do here, what we might die trying 
to accomplish.

That is why we have to be careful about resolutions in the Senate. 
Every Senator has an immense capability of expressing his or her point 
of view. We have all done that. We all continue to do it. We can get 
before the cameras any time we want to. We can let our folks back home 
know what we feel. And I dare say there are probably 100 different 
opinions in this body of 100 people. We all have a little different 
view of it. And we can tell our constituents what we think.

We certainly can communicate that to the President and people in the 
military. What we don't have to do is to go the next step and pass a 
resolution that first of all is nonbinding and has no effect on the 
implementation of the strategy, which is already beginning and will go 
forward, but can have a very detrimental effect on our enemies, on our 
allies, and on our own troops.

When General Petraeus was here testifying before his confirmation, he 
was asked a question about the resolutions to the effect of would it be 
helpful, and he said: No, it would not be helpful. Then he went on to 
talk about the object of war being to break the will of the enemy. He 
said: This would not help us--it would hurt us--break the will of the 
enemy, especially in a war like the one we are fighting with terrorists 
around the globe today--a war of wills.


It is important for us not to send the signal that our will is 
flagging, that there is great disagreement in our country about the 
desire to continue. In this war of wills, we should be unified and in 
support of the mission we are sending our troops to try to accomplish, 
and in support of the general whom we have confirmed to carry out that 
mission.

So I hope my colleagues will think very carefully about the words 
they speak, the actions they take, and reflect on what others will 
think of what we do here in this body. We are not simply speaking to 
the President, trying to send him a message. Everyone else in the world 
will get that message. And as much as we might manipulate the words in 
a resolution to try to bring 60 Senators all in consensus to what the 
resolution says, we all know what the headlines the next morning are 
going to say all around the world if a resolution like this were to 
pass: ''Senate Declares No Confidence in President's Strategy.'' ''U.S. 
Senate Goes on Record as Opposing Bush Plan.'' You can write the 
headline. Those are the words that will resonate around the world.

Let's not make any criticism of the President or his plan become a 
self-fulfilling prophecy. Let's be as united as we can in supporting 
our troops by supporting the mission we are sending them on, hoping it 
will succeed; if we want, expressing concerns we have about that, but 
doing so in a way that doesn't undercut the message. We can do both of 
these things in this great open society. People expect us to have 
debate about important issues such as matters of war and peace, and we 
can do that without undercutting the mission here.

I go back to where I started in quoting former Representative Lee 
Hamilton, cochairman of the Hamilton-Baker commission in his testimony 
yesterday here in the Senate:




 So I guess my bottom line on the surge is, look, the 


 President's plan ought to be given a chance. Give it a 


 chance, because we have heard all of this. The general that 


 you confirmed 80 to nothing the day before yesterday, this is 


 his idea. He's the supporter of it. Give it a chance.


Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.