---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `02764aec8d487c97d705f7d28b5a7f8a`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, 10 years ago a Republican Congress 
created a program that had a worthy and straightforward goal: health 
insurance for kids whose parents made too little to afford private 
coverage but too much to qualify for Government help. Millions of 
children were caught between rich and poor, we wanted to help, and 
thanks to the State Children's Health Insurance Program, we did.

The program has been a success. Since SCHIP's creation, the uninsured 
rate for children in families earning between about $20,000 and $40,000 
a year has dropped by 25 percent. Last year it covered more than 6 /1/
2/ million kids. Today the number of uninsured children within the 
income group we originally targeted is down to about one million 
nationwide.

Republicans were ready to finish the good work we started with SCHIP, 
and we approached its reauthorization this year as an opportunity to do 
just that, to reach out to the kids in our original target area who 
should be covered by SCHIP but weren't.

Meanwhile, our friends on the other side had another idea: following 
the lead of a number of State Governors, they decided to expand SCHIP 
beyond its original mandate and bring us down the path of Government-
run healthcare for everyone.

These Governors started with adults and children from middle and 
upper middle-income families. Taking SCHIP funds that were originally 
meant for children from poor families, they spent it on these other 
populations instead. Then they turned around and said they didn't have 
enough money to cover the poor children in their States. Which is 
absurd. This is a capped entitlement. The dollar amount is fixed. If 
you are spending it on adults, you have already decided not to spend it 
on the children who need it most. And that is wrong.

New Jersey, under the leadership of one of our former Senate 
colleagues, helped lead the way. Rejecting a rule that limits SCHIP 
funds to the poor children, New Jersey now uses SCHIP for adults, and 
for children in families that earn as much as $72,275 a year.

For millions of hard-working Americans who have to pay for their 
insurance, it doesn't seem right that they should have to subsidize the 
families in New Jersey who can and should be paying for their own. And 
a lot of poor


families in New Jersey are also right to wonder why Trenton is suddenly 
enrolling middle-class families for SCHIP when their kids still lack 
coverage--about 120,000 of them by one count.

This is the kind of SCHIP expansion that Democrats want in all 50 
States. They want to continue to expand it, pulling more and more 
middle-income children and adults off the private market and onto 
public coverage, driving private insurance costs up, driving the 
overall quality of health care down.

Not every State is abusing the rules. Kentucky runs its version of 
SCHIP, KCHIP, in a financially responsible way. We even have money left 
over from years past. But under the Democrats' reauthorization plan, 
Washington would take those extra funds and send them to States like 
New York and New Jersey that spend more than they get. As a result, 
even the expanded SCHIP program would leave Kentuckians with less SCHIP 
funding in the coming fiscal year.

Kentuckians don't want the money they have targeted for poor children 
going to adults and middle-class families in other states that can 
afford insurance on its own. KCHIP's money goes where it should be 
going: to low-income kids who need it most.

Right now, KCHIP serves about 50,000 kids in Kentucky, but there are 
a lot more who could be covered and aren't. We need to focus on them 
before expanding SCHIP program to new populations. And the Republican 
proposal I cosponsored with the other Republican leaders would do just 
that.

Until this year, SCHIP had been a bipartisan program and a bipartisan 
success. But in yet another sign that no good deed goes unpoliticized 
by Democrats in the 110th Congress, our Democratic friends accuse 
Republicans who want to reauthorize SCHIP of shortchanging it, of 
shortchanging children. Which is also absurd. We want to improve the 
program we have got, not expand it into areas it was never meant to go.

Of course some of the news organizations are running with the story. 
They seem to have forgotten that basic rule of politics that anytime 
somebody accuses you of opposing children they've either run out of 
arguments or they are trying to distract you from what they are really 
up to. And what our friends on the others side are up to is clear: they 
have taken SCHIP hostage, and what they want in exchange is Republican 
support for Government-run healthcare courtesy of Washington.

They tried that about 15 years ago, the American people loudly 
rejected it when they realized it would nationalize about a seventh of 
the economy, and they don't like Government health care any better now.

The first priority for Senate Republicans is reauthorizing SCHIP for 
the kids who need it. And we have demonstrated that commitment. Early 
last month, the Republican leadership proposed the Kids First Act, 
which allocates new funds for outreach and enrollment so SCHIP can 
reach 1.3 million more children than it already does. Our bill also 
pays for this outreach, without gimmicks and without raising taxes.

When Democrats rejected Kids First, Republicans introduced a bill to 
extend the current program to cover kids at risk of losing coverage 
until the debate over its future is resolved. While our friends on the 
other side were issuing press releases and playing politics, 
Republicans were looking for ways to make sure SCHIP funds didn't run 
out.

When this bill is vetoed, no one should feign surprise. They have 
known since July the President would veto any proposal that shifted 
SCHIP's original purpose of targeting health care dollars to low-income 
children who need them most.

Our Democratic colleagues have no excuse for bringing us to this 
point. But then again, this is the game they have played all year: 
neglect the real business of Government in favor of the political shot. 
Dozens of votes on Iraq that everyone knows won't lead to a change in 
policy. Three hundred investigations into the executive branch. And 
what is the result? We have less than 100 hours left in the current 
fiscal year, and Democrats haven't sent a single appropriations bill to 
the President's desk. This ought to put the 110th Congress into the Do-
Nothing Hall of Fame.

Less than 100 hours before a health insurance program for poor 
children expires, and Democrats are counting down the hours so they can 
tee up the election ads saying Republicans don't like kids. Meanwhile, 
they are using SCHIP as a Trojan horse to sneak Government-run health 
care into the States.

This isn't just a Republican hunch. According to the nonpartisan 
Congressional Budget Office, families that have private insurance are 
switching over to SCHIP in States that allow it. The junior Senator 
from New York has proposed a plan that would raise the eligibility rate 
to families of four that earn $82,600 a year--this, despite the fact 
that roughly nine out of ten children in these families have private 
health insurance already.

But of course that is not the point. The point is pursuit of a 
nationalized Government-run health care controlled by a Washington 
bureaucracy. Some Democrats have admitted what this is all about. The 
chairman of the Finance Committee recently put it this way: ''We're the 
only country in the industrialized world that does not have universal 
coverage,'' he said. ''I think the Children's Health Insurance Program 
is another step to move toward universal coverage.''

While Democrats are busy looking for ways to shift this program away 
from its original target, the deadline for reauthorization looms. 
Republicans have made this reauthorization a top priority. If Democrats 
want to expand Government-run health care, they should do it in the 
light of day, without seeking cover under a bill that was meant for 
poor children, and without the politics. Republicans can take the 
shots. But the poor kids who we were originally trying to help 
shouldn't be caught in the middle.

I yield the floor.