---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `027f192d1504abc91d5197e15627aad2`
`Mrs. McCARTHY of New York — 28 May 2010`

---


Mrs. McCARTHY of New York. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of H.R. 5136, 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011.

Each year, Congress acts to authorize national defense spending. 
Matters of defense spending have been one of my highest priorities 
throughout my time in Congress. Especially during times of war, we, in 
Congress, have the utmost obligation to ensure our service men and 
women have the adequate resources they need to serve both honorably and 
safely. Moreover, we must remember our retired and wounded service men 
and women and ensure that they receive the benefits and care respectful 
of their heroic sacrifices.

There are many provisions of this $567 billion authorization to be 
proud of. This bill strengthens four pivotal national objectives 
including, but not limited to, counterterrorism efforts, missile 
defense, nuclear nonproliferation, and benefits and care to our 
nation's service members and their families.

Some provisions that particularly stand out are the funding 
authorizations that support the President's agenda in Afghanistan. This 
bill takes steps to address prior shortfalls of our efforts in 
Afghanistan under the Bush Administration. Specifically, the bill 
outlines resources that will give U.S. commanders in the field the 
tools they need for success, as well as the means to forge meaningful 
strategic partnerships with neighboring nations so as to both 
facilitate victory and a swift and safe return for our brave service 
men and women. The bill also furthers the President's efforts to secure 
the nuclear arsenals across the globe. If Cold War politics have taught 
the world one thing, it is that nuclear proliferation could lead to 
dangerous situations. H.R. 5136 makes significant strides in aligning 
our defense policy with 21st century challenges, including facilitating 
a mobile missile defense system and regulation of nuclear arms. I 
believe Congress must do all that it can to ensure that the development 
of nuclear technologies is globally regulated and transparent. This 
bill, in funding key programs like the Department of Energy's Global 
Threat Reduction Initiative and Department of Defense's Cooperative 
Threat Reduction Program, takes important steps to ensuring that 
weapons grade nuclear materials do not end up into the hands of 
terrorists and dangerous states.

I am proud to speak to the funds authorized for the benefits and care 
of our military servicemembers and their families. A nation with the 
best military in the world should provide the best care in the world. 
Among its many provisions, H.R. 5136 provides a 1.9% pay raise to our 
troops, increases imminent danger pay, and expands college loan 
repayment benefits. Furthermore, the bill includes a ''pre-separation'' 
counseling program to help provide discharged servicemembers and their 
spouses with financial and job assistance. Especially in these tough 
economic times, it is important to promote financial literacy efforts 
across the board so as to better educate and inform average Americans 
of their financial and professional options.

Finally, I am extremely encouraged by language included in the final 
Defense Authorization bill that recognizes the harmful implications of 
poor nutrition as it pertains to national security. As Chairwoman of 
the Healthy Families and Communities Subcommittee, I have been very 
active in efforts to increase access to child nutrition programs. It is 
important that Congress recognize the vast impact proper child 
nutrition has on our nation. H.R. 5136 includes a sense of Congress 
that hunger and obesity are impairing military recruitment and must be 
properly addressed. I am proud to lead efforts to improve access to 
important initiatives like direct certification systems, and the 
national school lunch and summer food services programs. The language 
in this bill regarding obesity underscores the vast and grave 
consequences an unhealthy nation can have.

Again, Mr. Chair, I support the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2011. I commend both Chairman Ike Skelton and Ranking 
Member Howard McKeon for their hard work in putting together a 
tremendous piece of legislation that, in my opinion, adequately 
supports our active and retired service men and women.
