---
---

# None
## `0291a4d964e59f573ab927e716fbfea5`
`Mr. BROWN — 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. BROWN. Madam President, this weekend the Department of Defense 
confirmed the death of SSG Keith ''Matt'' Maupin, an American patriot 
from Batavia, OH, near Cincinnati, who bravely served our Nation in 
Iraq. Sergeant Maupin had been listed as missing and captured for 
nearly 4 years. He went missing on April 9, 2004, after his fuel 
convoy, the 724th Transportation Company, was ambushed just west of 
Baghdad. Since that tragic day, Sergeant Maupin's mother and father, 
his family, have worked tirelessly to locate their son. My prayers are 
with them, those who have endured years of gut-wrenching uncertainty 
and unfathomable heartache. We owe this family a tremendous debt of 
gratitude, not only for their extreme sacrifice but for their 
determination to prevent other parents from experiencing an information 
vacuum when their deployed son or daughter goes missing.

There are three other soldiers currently missing and captured in 
Iraq. The nightmare is not over for their families. On their behalf and 
in honor of Sergeant Maupin, our Nation must find those soldiers. Time 
must be perceived as the enemy. There can be no pause in the search, no 
ebb in the sense of urgency.

Upon finally hearing news of their son a few days ago, Sergeant 
Maupin's father said:




 Matt is coming home. He's completed his mission.


His words echo those of a grateful nation.















 the housing crisis
