# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `02a27d62023f0d31ff143a7f3a3cbf11`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today I am pleased to join Senator Specter 
in reintroducing the Leahy-Specter Personal Data Privacy and Security 
Act. This is a comprehensive data privacy package aimed at better 
protecting Americans' privacy. Senator Specter has been a valuable 
partner on this, and I also thank Majority Leader Reid for his 
leadership and commitment to enacting data privacy legislation this 
year.

When Senator Specter and I introduced this bill in 2005, we had high 
hopes of bringing urgently needed data privacy reforms to the American 
people. The Judiciary Committee reported this bill favorably in 
November of 2005, but with the last Congress, it simply sat on the 
calendar. The leadership would not bring it forward.

The irony is while they refused to bring it forward, the problems of 
data breaches remained a persistent and pernicious threat to Americans' 
privacy. Yesterday we learned that the Department of Veterans Affairs 
has lost a portable hard drive containing the sensitive personal 
information on as many as 48,000 veterans. I can imagine what the 
veterans in my State feel about that. I can imagine what the veterans 
in Montana feel about that.

Last week, there was a major data breach involving a State computer 
server in my home State of Vermont. It jeopardized the financial data 
of at least 69,000 Vermonters whose personal financial information had 
been stored on the computer used by the Vermont Agency of Human 
Services. Can you imagine 69,000 people, in a State of barely over 
600,000 people.

This is not unique to Vermont. Last month mega retailer TJX disclosed 
that it suffered a major computer breach involving credit and debt card 
purchases involving possibly hundreds of thousands of American 
consumers. And, even as disturbing as that is, while they knew about 
the breach in mid-December, none of those customers were told about it 
until a month later. It is as if a thief had gone to each one of their 
houses and stolen their data.

Of course, all of this comes on the heels of the theft of the 
personal data of 26.5 million of our veterans and active-duty personnel 
at the VA last year. Think about this: You are a man or a woman serving 
your country in Afghanistan or Iraq, and this information is stolen--
with data about where you live and what family members are left at home 
while you are overseas. How do you think that makes you feel?

According to the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, more than 100 million 
records containing sensitive personal information have been involved in 
data security breaches since 2005. We need strong Federal data privacy 
and security laws to protect Americans' personal data, and to address 
the ills of lax data security.

Our bill requires that data brokers let consumers know what sensitive 
personal information they have about them and to allow individuals to 
correct this. It is a simple matter of fairness. There is a clear 
precedent for our approach in the credit reporting context. Our bill 
also requires that companies who have databases with sensitive personal 
information about Americans establish and implement data privacy and 
security programs. In the information age, any company that wants to be 
trusted by the public must earn that trust by vigilantly protecting the 
databases that they use and maintain. In addition, our bill requires 
notice when sensitive personal information has been compromised. The 
American people need to know when they may be exposed to a data breach. 
Whether it is a government agency or a private company, if they lose 
your sensitive information, your Social Security number, your address, 
or anything about you,


you have a right to know. If they are holding that information about 
you, and they lose it, you have the right to know it has been lost.

We also have tough criminal penalties for anyone who would 
intentionally or willfully conceal the fact that a data breach has 
occurred when that breach causes economic damage to consumers.

Then finally, we address the important issue of the Government's use 
of personal data. This would require Federal agencies to notify 
affected individuals when Government data breaches occur.

We should never have to worry about our Government having this 
information on us and losing it, but certainly in the last 2 or 3 
years, we have seen so many millions of files that have been lost or 
put in jeopardy. We live in a world in which our Government also is 
increasingly turning to the private sector to get personal data that 
they, in some instances, couldn't legally get on their own. To address 
this, our bill puts protecting Americans' privacy first and foremost: 
Government data has to be protected and we have to know if the 
Government falls down on the job.

This is a comprehensive bill. It not only deals with the need to 
provide Americans notice when they have been victims of a data breach, 
it also deals with the underlying problems of lack of security and lack 
of accountability to prevent data breaches from occurring in the first 
place.

Today, Americans live in a world where their most sensitive personal 
information can be accessed and sold to the highest bidder with a few 
keystrokes on their computer. Our privacy laws greatly lag behind both 
the capabilities of our technology and the cunning of identity thieves. 
This legislation closes that gap. I commend the leadership for being 
willing to bring up our data privacy bill. I wish that the leadership 
in the last Congress had brought this bill up last year. But, I am glad 
that the new leadership will do so this year.

For the sake of all Americans, I urge all Senators to support this 
legislation and to act now to pass comprehensive data privacy and 
security legislation.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.