---
---

# None
## `02b70c364643e921ba613c031bc44210`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Thank you very much, my friend from 
Colorado. I am glad you brought up this issue that has come up today. 
Really you couldn't write this. You couldn't make a movie that was more 
salacious than the details that are being unveiled today in an article 
you referenced from the Washington Post regarding not only, it appears, 
monetary favors, gifts, meals, trips, but sex and drugs. This is a 
Hollywood blockbuster that is being unveiled here, and it is all on our 
dime.

What you are saying here is certainly relevant to the question of how 
we are running our energy policy in this country, that we have an 
administration that is so cozy to the energy industry that it is not 
just leases that are being negotiated, but apparently it is drugs and 
sexual favors being negotiated.

But what we are dealing with really here, Mr. Perlmutter, is a 
government run amuck. This is, I think, symptomatic of a much larger 
problem. We are talking here about the economic disaster that this 
administration has wrought, and you can calculate that in so many 
different ways: wages flat while GDP goes up; deficits running into the 
trillions of dollars.

But what we also have seen is an administration that just can't run 
government any longer. They are wasting our taxpayer dollars. Now, they 
also happen to be wasting all of the money that they are borrowing from 
foreign banks, but we are wasting a lot of our money too.

It is incredibly relevant that we are here trying to expose the 
economic disaster that the Bush administration has left us with that we 
are going to change with the new administration. It is relevant that we 
are also talking about this new revelation.

You have mentioned some of the details, but what we found in the 
Interior Department is what investigators call a ''culture of substance 
abuse and promiscuity.'' Nineteen oil marketers and other employers in 
the office are accused of having personal and sometimes sexual 
relationships with representatives of a group of favorite oil and gas 
companies from 2002 to 2006. Mr. Speaker, this is from the Washington 
Post story today.

This is what this government has left us with, an economy that is 
suffering, deficits that are rising, and a government that just doesn't 
work any longer, whether it is the misuse of our funds in Iraq. We 
discovered in the Government Oversight Committee that Mr. Welch and I 
serve on that $9 billion was wasted, unaccounted for at the beginning 
of the war, sometimes thrown out of pickup trucks in duffel bags and 
never, ever seen again. Or whether it is our response to Katrina and 
Rita, in which we left thousands, tens of thousands of residents 
helpless and hopeless. And now today we find that we have unbelievably 
inappropriate relationships between the government and the oil and gas 
companies seeking to lease our lands.

This is an economy that is in trouble because of the policies of this 
administration. This is a government which has simply fallen apart at 
the seams because of mismanagement. And it all speaks to the change we 
so desperately need. No more of the same.

John McCain's campaign, as we know, is run by the same crowd of 
lobbyists who have run the Bush administration for the last 8 years. We 
need a real change. This Congress with Democrats in charge has started 
it, but it comes to a completion this November. All of it stops, the 
mismanagement of this war, the disastrous response to natural disasters 
and these new revelations about the corruption still endemic in our 
government.

Ms. Sutton, it can all change this November.