# THE MAJORITY MAKERS
## `02b8ea3a03bbeecbfc43c14d62c70920`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 4 March 2009`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. I thank my colleague, and I think that is truly one of 
the special things about this budget, is that it is forward-looking, it 
is visionary, and it doesn't rely on the tired actions of the past.

And, furthermore, it's such an honest budget. For the first time it 
is totally comprehensive, so that we don't keep things off the books 
like we have kept the expenditures for the war in Iraq and Afghanistan 
over the last 8 years. It puts expenses for those activities in the 
budget, projects them. It also includes items for anticipating 
disasters like Katrina or other natural disasters we know are going to 
occur but we never put those expenses in the budget.

So this is fully transparent, it is comprehensive, it is honest and, 
again, it is forward-looking, and that certainly is something that I 
think the American people, as time goes on and we discuss this budget, 
will appreciate that it is large. There is no question about it. We are 
spending unprecedented amounts of money and we, unfortunately, are 
facing some pretty substantial deficits.

But if we stick to this test, the odds of our not just recovering 
from our current situation, but from setting the foundation for an 
incredible era of growth and progress in this country, are greatly 
improved because of this new agenda advanced by the Obama 
administration.

So, as we get toward the end of our hour, I would like to recognize 
my friend from Tennessee (Mr. Cohen) who


has also played an important role in one aspect of meeting the 
challenge of this current situation, and that is an element of the 
housing problem that he has been particularly instrumental in dealing 
with.