# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `02bad292991b9df9c41abd5da59b5ec7`
`Mr. HUNTER — 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, let me say this: I have served in Iraq two 
times as a United States Marine, and I served in Afghanistan once. When 
I was over there in 2007, I was fighting, and in October of 2007, word 
came across from here in the States that said several hundred State 
Department employees expressed their resentment over a policy that 
could force them to serve in Iraq or they might lose their jobs. They 
actually called going over to Iraq and Afghanistan a potential death 
sentence. So these are State Department employees, diplomats--the same 
ones we're asking to go to Pakistan and Afghanistan, which is arguably 
the most dangerous area right now in the entire world. We're asking 
them to go over, the exact same people who called going over to Iraq a 
potential death sentence.

I would equate this to sending diplomats to Katrina-destroyed New 
Orleans in 2005 instead of the National Guard. We're going to send 
diplomats to Louisiana. We aren't going to send the National Guard. We 
aren't going to send emergency services. We're going to send diplomats. 
So as opposed to giving General Petraeus, as the President asked for, 
funding to help out in Pakistan and Afghanistan, we're going to send 
diplomats so they can talk to the Taliban and they can talk to al 
Qaeda. They can talk to the mad men who cut off people's heads. That's 
what the State Department is going to do.

This is the wrong move. The Republicans have it right this time. Give 
the President full authority, Let him come up with a plan, and let 
General Petraeus implement that. The Republican substitute is the right 
way to go. We need to make sure that Pakistan is fighting for Pakistan 
and that Pakistan doesn't think it's only fighting for American 
dollars. That's what we need to do.

Once more, as a United States Marine that saw State Department 
ineptness and cowardice while I was in Afghanistan, it's almost 
personally insulting that we're going to pull the funding from General 
Petraeus and give it to those State Department cronies.