# REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF STAFF SERGEANT DAVID SMITH
## `02def73995a3ad9a3fca0c7fcf1c3e33`
`Mr. BONNER — 22 July 2010`

---


Mr. BONNER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and the 
patriotic service of U.S. Air Force SSgt. David Smith, age 26, a 
dedicated defender of American liberty, who lost his life while coming 
to the aid of wounded warriors in Afghanistan.

Staff Sergeant Smith, a graduate of Satsuma High School and a 
resident of Eight Mile, Alabama, was devoted to his mission of rescuing 
his comrades on the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan. During his 
years of wearing the uniform of his country, he proudly participated in 
more than 130 combat missions, literally saving the lives of hundreds 
of military personnel.

A member of the 66th Rescue Squadron from Ellis Air Force Base in 
Nevada, Staff Sergeant Smith was assigned to the 563rd Rescue Group. 
While conducting a medical evacuation mission in Afghanistan's Helmand 
province, his HH-60G Pave Hawk helicopter was shot down by Taliban 
insurgents on June 9, 2010.

Speaking about the loss of Staff Sergeant Smith, as well as three of 
his comrades and those injured aboard their rescue helicopter, U.S. Air 
Force Chief of Staff General Norman Schwartz noted, ''Faithful to the 
rescue motto 'That others may live,' these airmen were courageously and 
selflessly flying in support of their joint coalition teammates. We 
grieve for our warriors and our thoughts and prayers are with their 
families, as well as with the airmen still recovering.''

At the time of his death, Staff Sergeant Smith was just 5 days from 
completing his combat duty. He was awarded the Purple Heart, Air Force 
Combat Award Medal, and the Alabama Distinguished Service Medal.

During this time of sorrow, my heart and prayers go out to Staff 
Sergeant Smith's mother, Mildred Hardee, his fiancee, Meggan Eckersley, 
brothers, Randall Dunn and Todd Smith, sisters, Tracy Smith and Jamie 
Smith, and his extended family.

On behalf of the people of Alabama, I wish to extend our deepest 
condolences to the family of Staff Sergeant Smith for the loss of their 
beloved son, brother and finance. He is truly an American Hero and we 
will always cherish his service to his country and its people.
