# None
## `02de566bddf5d7cc0c349287f0e69f4b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 22 May 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H. Res. 400, which expresses the sympathy of the House of 
Representatives to the citizens of Greensburg, KS, over the devastating 
tornado of May 4, 2007.

Just over 2 weeks ago, a devastating weekend of storms left at least 
9 people dead and much of the farm town of Greensburg, KS, destroyed. 
Mile-wide tornadoes with winds of up to 205 miles per hour were 
recorded, leveling the town and destroying much of the equipment used 
by first-responders, including city and county trucks. By the time the 
winds finally settled, approximately 95 percent had been destroyed, 
displacing over 1,500 residents from their homes.

The tragedy of this storm was compounded by the lack of available 
responders and equipment. Governor Kathleen Sebelius has lamented the 
deployment of much needed troops and resources to Iraq, stating ''When 
the troops get deployed, the equipment goes with them. So here in 
Kansas about 50 percent of our trucks are gone. We need trucks. We are 
missing Humvees, we're missing all kinds of equipment that could help 
us respond in this kind of emergency.''

This storm illustrated precisely how rescue and recovery efforts here 
at home are being severely hampered by our ongoing involvement in Iraq. 
National Guard representatives have echoed this statement, with MG. Tod 
Bunting of the Kansas National Guard noting that first-responders 
lacked resources even before the war, which has subsequently ''further 
depleted us.''

Despite these shortages, Guard troops are to be commended for their 
efforts at providing much needed security and supplies.

Here in Congress, as hurricane season rapidly approaches, we are 
actively examining our Nation's response to natural disasters. Two 
years ago we learned, from Hurricane Katrina, the extent to which we 
were unprepared for, and unable to adequately respond to, a disaster of 
this magnitude.

I urge this Congress to continue to pursue this important issue; the 
tornadoes in Kansas serve to remind us all that nature's furies are 
varied and unpredictable.

Mr. Speaker, Greensburg, KS, remains in shambles. Homes are 
demolished, livelihoods lost, lives interrupted. I would like to join 
my colleague, Mr. Moran of Kansas, the sponsor of this bill, in 
expressing my deep personal sympathy to the victims of this natural 
disaster. Similarly, I would like to express my strong support for this 
resolution, and I would urge my colleagues to do likewise.