# None
## `02f7f4a5cda9d24a27ab2e7b198b3a9e`
`Mr. SOUDER — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. SOUDER. Madam Speaker, I would like to submit into the 
Congressional Record the text of the U.S. State Department announcement 
this month regarding the strategic partnership between the United 
States and the Republic of Macedonia.

I urge my colleagues to review this document closely, and to remember 
the geostrategic importance of the United States' continued support for 
the Republic of Macedonia's membership in the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization (NATO).

We in Congress should also fully appreciate the great distance this 
young country has traveled--reforming itself politically, economically, 
and militarily--since the dissolution of the Socialist Federal Republic 
of Yugoslavia.

Declaration of Strategic Partnership and Cooperation Between the United 
States of America and the Republic of Macedonia, Bureau of European and 






Eurasian Affairs, Washington, D.C., May 7, 2008




 The United States of America and the Republic of Macedonia 


 are determined to expand and deepen the close partnership 


 between the two countries based upon common goals, interests, 


 and values. The two countries wish to enhance their strategic 


 relationship through intensified consultation and cooperation 


 in the areas of security, people-to-people ties, and 


 commerce. The United States and Macedonia reaffirm their 


 support for the principles of sovereignty and territorial 


 integrity of states, the purposes and principles of the U.N. 


 charter, and a unitary, multiethnic Macedonia within its 


 existing borders.



 Macedonia and the United States note that a democratic, 


 secure and prosperous Macedonia, with friendly and 


 constructive relations with its neighbors and as an active 


 participant in regional and international economic, political 


 and security fora, is vital to peace and stability in 


 Southeast Europe.



 In this regard, the United States continues to support 


 Macedonia's security, stability and economic development.



 In the interest of an intensified partnership, the United 


 States intends to immediately provide additional assistance 


 to Macedonia to help build prosperity, strengthen security, 


 and foster deeper ties between our two countries.



 Macedonia expresses deep appreciation to the U.S. for its 


 assistance to date in helping the Macedonian people as they 


 work to institutionalize and make permanent a democratic 


 process that realizes our shared values of peace, freedom, 


 the rule of law, and a free market economy. Macedonia also 


 recognizes and reaffirms the support from the U.S. in 


 reforming and strengthening its armed forces.



 Building on our existing strong partnership in the fight 


 against global terrorism and promoting international 


 stability, demonstrated by our troops serving together in 


 Iraq and Afghanistan, our civilian and military officials 


 plan to intensify their bilateral high-level contacts and 


 seek increased joint training and exercise opportunities to 


 enhance the interoperability of our forces, and strengthen 


 our partnership in promoting international security and non-


 proliferation.



 Sharing a desire to expand trade and investment, the United 


 States and Macedonia will seek to enhance their economic ties 


 and undertake additional measures to strengthen the 


 competitiveness of Macedonia's economy and expand 


 opportunities for United States and Macedonian businesses. 


 The United States supports Macedonia's ongoing efforts to 


 build a business-friendly environment attractive to United 


 States and other foreign investment. Macedonia expresses its 


 appreciation for the opportunity to utilize GSP to strengthen 


 bilateral trade. Both countries encourage the further 


 expansion of their trade relations.



 Macedonia expresses satisfaction with the successful 


 implementation of the USAID technical assistance programs in 


 the areas of democracy, economic growth and education and 


 reaffirms its desire for cooperation in these areas to 


 continue.



 The two countries also seek to build closer and more robust 


 bonds between their citizens and will undertake practical 


 measures to promote educational and cultural exchange.



 The NATO Summit Declaration in Bucharest made clear that 


 the Republic of Macedonia has met NATO's democratic, 


 economic, and defense standards through its rigorous 


 participation in the Membership Action Plan. The United 


 States continues to work with our NATO Allies to maintain 


 Macedonia's robust cooperation with NATO under existing 


 mechanisms, while it awaits a membership invitation.



 Both countries look forward to Macedonia joining NATO as 


 soon as possible. Our intensified cooperation at this time 


 will further strengthen Macedonia's readiness to take on 


 Alliance obligations and responsibilities in the near future.
