---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `02f83a83ecd1251ecb320f2c8d9fce9e`
`Mr. PRICE of North Carolina — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the 
amendment before us, which will force a dramatic shift in strategy in 
Iraq that will protect our national security and bring our troops home.

I have been one of a group in the House that, for several years now, 
has vocally advocated a withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq. Thanks to 
a President who has stubbornly adhered to a failed policy that does not 
serve the best interests of our military, our foreign policy, and our 
national security, we are now no closer to a withdrawal--or a 
resolution to the conflicts that beset Iraq--than we were 5 years ago. 
This amendment will change that. This amendment will begin to bring our 
troops home, in an orderly and responsible fashion.

Some argue that conditions on the ground have improved since the 
beginning of the President's surge strategy, and that advocates of a 
troop withdrawal are somehow blind to changed conditions. That is 
simply not the case.

We have watched conditions in Iraq closely, hoping for the kind of 
progress that would transform Iraq's internal political dynamics, 
hoping for a turning point that might produce a lasting end to the 
violence. We have supported our troops as they have carried out their 
tactical military mission with remarkable success. But we have also 
watched the Iraqi Government's continued failure to complete its 
political mission, the success of which is the necessary condition for 
ensuring Iraq's long-term stability. There is simply no indication that 
tactical progress in reducing the levels of violence in certain regions 
of Iraq has been translated into lasting, strategic gains in the 
political realm.

Unfortunately, the Administration has now concluded that the military 
drawdown initially promised cannot be carried out. A successful surge 
should justify taking troops out of Iraq, not keeping them in. The 
bottom line is this: Tactical gains notwithstanding, we and the Iraqis 
have yet to build a sustainable political and security architecture 
that brings us closer to our goal--a politically coherent Iraq that can 
manage its own security.

Without political progress, the security situation in Iraq will 
remain fragile. In such a context, we risk institutionalizing an 
indefinite dependency on the U.S. military to maintain security. And 
over the long run, we simply will not be able to sustain the level of 
budgetary or military commitment we have today.

Our national interest requires that we remain committed to helping 
Iraq reach its long term goals, but it also requires us to carefully 
calibrate the nature of our involvement. The United States military 
mission in Iraq cannot be held hostage to Iraqi progress (or lack of 
progress) toward security or political benchmarks. We simply cannot 
continue to commit our overstretched personnel and resources without 
regard to Iraq's progress toward governing itself.

For that reason, it is essential that we begin a withdrawal of our 
military from Iraq.

Moreover, such a withdrawal is perhaps the only way we can motivate 
Iraqis to take the steps necessary to overcome sectarian differences 
and unite as a nation. This amendment will initiate such a withdrawal, 
and for that reason I ask for my colleagues' support.

There are other important reasons to support this measure. It would 
help us recover our moral compass by banning torture. It would ease the 
burden on our troops by establishing a more reasonable deployment 
policy. And it would prohibit the establishment of permanent bases in 
Iraq, a measure many of us have strongly supported.

I am particularly pleased that this amendment includes legislation I 
proposed over a year ago to ensure that government contractors--
including tens of thousands of armed private security contractor 
personnel working in combat zones in Iraq and Afghanistan--will be held 
accountable under the law for misconduct, just like our troops. This 
legislation passed the House over seven months ago, and its enactment 
is long overdue.

My legislation will ensure that all Government personnel--military 
personnel, civilian employees, and contractors under any agency--will 
be accountable under U.S. Federal criminal jurisdiction through the 
Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act. Since the war in Iraq 
began, private contractor personnel have committed numerous abuses 
resulting in the deaths of dozens of Iraqis. Yet, many of these 
individuals have operated in a legal gray zone, immune from both Iraqi 
and U.S. law. As a result, accountability has been undercut and the 
credibility of our operations in Iraq has been seriously damaged.

One need only point to the events of September 17, 2007, to 
understand the consequences of such impunity. On that day, private 
contractor personnel accompanying a convoy through the streets of 
Baghdad opened fire in a downtown square, killing 17 civilians; 8 
months later, no charges have been filed and none of the participants 
have been brought to justice.

We have worked sincerely with the Administration to ensure that 
Government and contractor personnel who are carrying out their mission 
conscientiously and legally will not be made vulnerable under this law. 
Instead, this measure will give us the tools we need to ensure that 
those who run afoul of the law are brought to justice.

The measure before us is a major step forward toward a new approach 
to national security, one that will make our Nation safer and


restore our global moral leadership. I urge my colleagues to join me in 
supporting this measure and bringing an end to the war in Iraq.