# RECOGNIZING THE 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE CANADIAN CONSULATE GENERAL IN  MINNEAPOLIS
## `0308669f8bd79ca446d6019d1dfbcd87`
`Ms. McCOLLUM — 30 June 2010`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to join my fellow 
Minnesotans in celebrating Canada Day and to recognize the 40th 
anniversary of the Canadian Consulate General in Minneapolis that 
serves the Upper Midwest region of the United States.

Canada and Minnesota are great neighbors, and the past 40 years have 
helped to strengthen our friendship through growing bilateral trade and 
investment ties. Canada remains as Minnesota's number one international 
trading partner, with an average of $16 billion in trade each year. 
Approximately 141,000 Minnesota jobs and more than 8 million jobs 
across the United States result from trade with Canada. Additionally, 
our Canadian neighbors make 2 million visits to states in the


Upper Midwest and more than 645,000 residents of our region visit 
Canada each year for business and tourism.

I must also be highlighted that during peace and war time, Canada has 
always been a vital ally. During the current conflicts in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, the Canadian people have shared their enormous sacrifices 
with our military, and our nation is grateful for their deep 
contributions to national and international security.

It is an honor to join all residents in Minnesota's 4th Congressional 
District in commemorating the 40th anniversary of the Canadian 
Consulate General in Minneapolis, and for the celebration of the many 
ties between Canada and Minnesota on this grand opening of the 
''Canadiana'' exhibit at the Minnesota History Center in Saint Paul.
