# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `030c3e858e58425a131273347f9c66f2`
`Mr. McCARTHY of California — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCARTHY of California. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlelady for 
yielding and for her service to the country.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in a different position than the majority 
of this body. You see, I am one of the 54 newly elected Members of this 
Congress. We did not have the opportunity to debate and vote on the 
authority to use military force in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, I want to have an honest debate, not for political 
gain and not one that questions anyone's patriotism, because I believe 
everyone in this body wants to move this country in the right 
direction.

But I believe the right direction means that we move forward, not 
backwards. On this floor today is a nonbinding resolution that I 
believe moves us backwards. This resolution offers no hope to the 
American people. It offers no plan of action, no new strategy with the 
prospect of achieving success.

A lot has changed since last November's election. We have a new 
Defense Secretary, recommendation from the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, 
and a new general, General David Petraeus. He will lead our troops on 
the ground in Iraq.

We have a new plan, a new way forward that addresses the problem of 
security in Iraq through a strategy that requires more ground power. 
This reinforcement of troops is recommended by the study group, and we 
will also hold the Iraqi Government accountable to establish and 
preserve the peace.

Our Commander in Chief, the military commanders, and our troops 
believe we can still achieve stability in Iraq.

But this resolution would be the first step in gutting the very 
resources necessary to achieve success. This resolution offers nothing.

The Commander in Chief, the bipartisan study group, and General 
Petraeus offer a new way forward. This resolution offers the status 
quo. The status quo is a mandate to fail and begins the chain of events 
that lead to a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq and all the 
consequences that would inevitably follow.

And what would those consequences be?

Withdrawal makes the young Iraqi democracy vulnerable to takeover by 
extremist elements that hate America.

What would withdrawal mean for the stability in the Middle East?

What would generations of Iraqis believe, that Americans will quit 
before the job is done?

Who will fill the void of our strength, al Qaeda, Syria, or a country 
like Iran that threatens regional stability through an aggressive 
nuclear program, that supports terrorist groups like Hezbollah, and 
that possibly supplies weapons to insurgents killing our troops?

Withdrawal only strengthens terrorist groups fighting the United 
States and demoralizes our American troops.

I may be new to this House, but I recognize when a simple, nonbinding 
resolution has potential to do great damage to our Nation and to our 
men and women in the military.

I believe that, by voting for this resolution, the House will send a 
demoralizing message to our service men and women who are courageously 
implementing this strategy. By voting for this resolution, the House 
will strengthen our enemies and tell them that the end is near; that 
the Congress will continue to undermine our Commander in Chief, our 
military commanders, like General Petraeus and our troops, by cutting 
funding or demanding further retreats.



By voting for this resolution, the House will snuff out the hope of 
democracy that millions of Iraqi people have. By voting for this 
resolution, the House will begin a process that leads to the creation 
of a dangerous power vacuum in Iraq to be potentially filled by those 
who mean America great harm.

I ask the Members to join with me in voting ''no'' on this 
resolution.