# RECOGNIZING THE GOOD WORK OF ED AND MARY ETTEL
## `030db37f5168e8e9944c811b1432ac58`
`Mr. ISAKSON â€” 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I am honored to join Senator Chambliss of 
Georgia in paying tribute to Ed and Mary Ettel, my neighbors, as a 
matter of fact, in East Cobb County, Marietta, Georgia. I live about a 
mile and a half from their home, and my son and daughter-in-law attend 
Mount Bethel United Methodist Church, where they are active members, a 
great church with a great minister, Randy Mickler, who does such a good 
job inspiring his congregation to do so many good things.

Ed and Mary do a tremendous service to our men and women in harm's 
way. I add my praise of them to the praise of Senator Chambliss. I 
thank them for the example they set and the blessing they are to our 
soldiers.

I too want to talk for a second about Iraq, about the war in Iraq, 
and refresh some memories. Twice this year on the floor of this Senate, 
once before Memorial Day and once before the August break, we had 
heated 1-week-long debates of whether the United States of America 
should declare that we have lost and should leave Iraq. In fact, 
earlier this year, one Member of this body actually declared the war 
was lost. Well, as Senator Chambliss has acknowledged, things have 
turned in Iraq. And they have turned because of the sacrifice of our 
young men and women fighting in harm's way. They have turned because of 
the determination of a President who understands the threat of 
terrorism around the world, and the agents of terror, and those who 
would harbor terrorists. Iraq is turning. We cannot declare victory in 
the sense of a declaration of it being lost was declared earlier this 
year, but we can declare and acknowledge that progress has been made 
and the country has accomplished a number of the enumerated goals we 
set out to accomplish when we went into Iraq.

In fact, if everyone will recall the President's speech 4 days before 
we went into Iraq, he established three goals for this country going 
into Iraq. No. 1 was to depose Saddam Hussein, and to find those 
weapons of mass destruction or their components that U.N. Resolution 
1441 declared were there; second, to allow the Iraqi people to hold 
free elections and to write a constitution of their own, and establish 
a government of their determination; third was to train the Iraqi 
military to a capability of defending that new fledgling government.

Saddam Hussein has been deposed, was tried by a jury of his peers 
under Iraqi law. There are those who say we found no weapons of mass 
destruction, but they overlooked all of the components that we found, 
Scud missiles buried in the sand between Damascus and Baghdad, elements 
of sarin gas, 4 of the 7 mobile biological labs, 400,000 bodies in mass 
graves; all the signs, the telltale signs of the horror and the terror 
of mass destruction.

Goal No. 2, the Iraqis held free elections in 14 months, wrote a 
constitution, established the government. Mission accomplished there.

And then, No. 3, to train the Iraqi military sufficiently to sustain 
peace


for that fledgling government. We are not there yet, but we are moving 
so much closer. It should be noted that a few weeks ago, when all the 
press noted the British had left Basra and what a disappointment that 
was, nobody took note of the fact that it was the Iraqi army that 
replaced them, not the American army, not coalition forces but the 
Iraqi army, trained and capable of doing it.

Of the al-Qaida operatives who have been captured or killed in the 
last 6 weeks, the majority of them have been operations of Iraqi 
soldiers, not American soldiers. The fact is, goal No. 3, training an 
adequate and sufficient military to protect the fledgling government, 
is not at hand, but it is getting closer.

So it is time today, on the week before the Veterans Day holiday, and 
Veterans Day in this country, to pay tribute to the men and women who 
have sacrificed for this country, for freedom, and for the fight in the 
war on terrorism.

I carry with me a dogtag. This dogtag is SGT Mike Stokely's. Sergeant 
Stokely was killed in Iraq in September of 2005. I met his dad shortly 
after he had lost his son and, in fact, had lunch with his dad 3 weeks 
ago in Fayetteville, GA. I wanted to pay tribute to Mike and Noah 
Harris, another soldier from Georgia whose parents I have spent so much 
time with, and reflect for a moment on what they always tell me every 
time I see them. They said: Make sure you tell people that my son did 
not fight and die in vain, but what he sacrificed for is a country that 
seeks to end terror, end the threat of terror, and promote democracy 
around the world.

Well, to Bob Stokely, Mike's dad, to Lisa Harris, Noah's mom, I say: 
They did not die in vain. The evidence in Iraq across the board is 
proving that their hard work and their sacrifice has made a difference. 
If we can stay the course, support our troops, finish the training of 
the Iraqi military, the American forces can leave in large amount and 
leave the Iraqis to protect that free, self-determined government of 
their own.

It is time we acknowledge the success of our men and women in the 
U.S. military. It is time for us to say thank you for what they have 
done, and to look to the day that their effort makes us as Americans 
and the world a safer and a better place. Yes, the Iraq news is good. 
The war is not over. The progress is great, we need to stay the course, 
and finish the deal.

I yield the floor.