---
---

# RECOGNIZING 30TH ANNIVERSARY OF IRANIAN HOSTAGE CRISIS
## `032169538bc679af0bef28860171e469`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 6 November 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the resolution put forward 
by my good friend, the gentleman from Nebraska.

Mr. Speaker, September 11, 2001, will be forever engrained in our 
collective consciousness as one of the most vicious attacks against our 
Nation. However, we have been targeted by a global, violent, Islamic 
extremist network since November 4, 1979.



On this day, Iranian militants overran the United States Embassy in 
Tehran, and took innocent American hostages, with 52 of these brave 
Americans held for 444 days. U.S. diplomats, Embassy staff, and 
military personnel were bound and blindfolded, humiliated, and paraded 
in front of news cameras by their captors.



They endured unspeakable suffering and abuse for nearly 15 months in 
captivity. Since the capture of the United States embassy in Tehran 30 
years ago and the ensuing hostage crisis, Iran has increasingly viewed 
terrorism as a tool to achieve its ideological and strategic aims.

These aims include exporting the revolution, supporting and arming 
militant Islamist extremist organizations and other groups worldwide, 
especially in the Middle East, attacking Israel, and destabilizing the 
governments of the more pragmatic and reformist Arab countries.

One of the chief instruments for the implementation of these policies 
has been the jihadist organization, Hezbollah, which, since its 
inception, has been trained, financed and supported by the Iranian 
Revolutionary Guard Corps. In return, Hezbollah has helped advance 
Iranian interests through a sustained campaign against the United 
States and our allies in the Middle East, including but not limited to 
the 1983 attacks on the United States marine barracks and embassy in 
Lebanon; the bombing of the United States embassy annex in Beirut in 
1984; the 1985 hijacking of TWA Flight 847; the taking of American and 
other hostages in Beirut throughout the 1980's; the June 1996 truck 
bombing of the Khobar Towers United States military housing complex in 
Saudi Arabia.

Testifying at a subcommittee hearing that I chaired in February 2005, 
William Daugherty, a CIA veteran and one of the 52 Americans held 
hostage in Iran for 444 days 30 years ago, emphasized, ''The undeniable 
truth is that the United States Government has utterly failed to hold 
Iran accountable in any sustained and effective manner for its role in 
the cumulative deaths of over 275 American citizens and the wounding of 
well over 600 more.''

Mr. Daugherty continued, ''Moreover, the United States Government has 
failed to undertake any action with the force or impact sufficient to 
deter the Iranian government from conducting terrorism against our 
interests.

''The absence of any credible response has served only to encourage 
the continuation of Iranian-sponsored terrorism, nor have those of us 
who are victims of Iranian terrorism received any justice from those 
acts.''

Since Dr. Daugherty's testimony almost 5 years ago, Iran has been 
proactively involved in undermining United States and coalition 
interests in Iraq and Afghanistan, by providing material support and 
all types of weapons to extremists in both countries, so that they can 
kill and wound Americans. The number of U.S. victims of Iranian-
sponsored or Iranian-supported attacks continues to increase.

The threat to our ally Israel has grown incredibly as well, with Iran 
increasing its involvement in the West Bank and Gaza in support of such 
Islamist extremist organizations as Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic 
Jihad and Lebanon through its proxy, Hezbollah. Yet successive U.S. 
administrations have failed to properly recognize and confront the 
totality of the Iranian threat, from its history of supporting violent 
Islamic extremists, to its nuclear weapons program, unconventional 
weapons and ballistic missile development.

In response, the United States must impose a cost so high on Tehran 
that it threatens the Iranian regime's survival unless it changes 
course. This approach will require applying immediate, comprehensive 
tough economic sanctions. Again, former hostage Dr. William Daugherty 
said it best, ''It is time for Iran to be called to account, not by 
pronouncements, but by clear, sustained and overwhelming action for its 
past, as well as for any future violations of international law.

''And it is time for American victims of Iranian terrorism, like 
those of us who were held hostage by the Iranian government, to receive 
the justice that is decades delayed. The Congress can see that this 
happens.''

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to strongly support this 
resolution.

I reserve the balance of my time.