---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `0326c74c899d67c15ed99a0fa1c15fe4`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 17 June 2009`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise in support of the FY 2009 
Supplemental Conference Report. The funding provided in this Report is 
part of the President and Congress' comprehensive effort to keep our 
nation safe. The brave men and women in our armed forces are central to 
our national security. From ensuring our troops have appropriate 
equipment to fully funding military pay and providing compensation for 
stop-loss, President Obama and Congress are committed to providing for 
our troops and their families. The Conference Report also allows the 
extension of the new GI-Bill benefits to children of members of the 
armed forces who die while on active duty.

Another central piece of our national security is implementing the 
comprehensive plans that President Obama has laid out for Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and this Conference Report is consistent with those plans. 
It also funds new initiatives in Pakistan as part of our continued 
effort to improve their ability to confront the threat posed by the 
Taliban and al Qaeda. Working to improve our health security, the 
Supplemental Conference Report provides billions for pandemic flu 
response to expand detection efforts, supplement federal stockpiles, 
and develop, purchase and administer vaccines.

Congress is working with President Obama every day to keep our nation 
safe--this legislation is a key piece of that effort. I urge my 
colleagues to support it.
