# None
## `0337391323355bc35416afbe6bd198d2`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I yield myself 5 minutes.

Mr. President, I think everybody in this body would like to leave 
Iraq better than we found it. That is not the current situation. The 
current situation is chaos and violence in Iraq. It is an Iraq that is 
torn apart by sectarian violence. When you have group slaughtering 
group in a civil war, a sectarian type of war, it requires that the 
Iraqi political leaders take action to end the violence. The only way 
to end the violence is if the Iraqi political leaders will reach a 
political settlement. I think almost everybody agrees with that. I 
think our uniformed military agrees with that, our civilian leaders 
agree, and almost everybody agrees that there is no military solution 
in Iraq, and that the only solution, the only way to end this violence 
is if the Iraqi political leaders accept the responsibility to work out 
political agreements on a number of disagreements they have identified 
for themselves.

We talk a lot about benchmarks, and the President said the other day 
that on eight benchmarks we are making progress, and on eight we are 
not--to make it sound like we have a glass that is half full. But that 
is not what the facts sustain or support. The facts are that we have a 
glass called Iraq which has a hole in the bottom. Whatever we pour into 
Iraq goes right through that hole. It is going to continue to do that 
until one thing happens, and that is that the Iraqi political leaders 
decide they are going to work out a political settlement. There is a 
consensus about that, I believe, among almost all of us.

The Iraqi Prime Minister made the following statement, and every one 
of us, when we vote on Levin-Reed, ought to keep this one statement in 
mind, I believe, first and foremost. This is what Prime Minister Maliki 
said:




 The crisis is political, and the ones who can stop the 


 cycle of bloodletting of innocents are the politicians.


Well, it is long overdue that the politicians in Iraq step up to 
their responsibility. The amendment before us, it seems to me, states 
something which is clear. I believe it is obvious that it is in 
everyone's interest that Iraq not be a failed state. I agree with my 
friend from Texas. That should be a goal of everybody. The problem is 
that Iraq is the No. 2 most unstable state in the world right now. That 
is the status quo. That is what we have to end. The only way to end it 
is with a political settlement by the Iraqis.

There was an article a few days ago in Foreign Policy magazine called 
''The States That Fail Us.'' It is about failed states. It has a list 
of about 60 states, and they give all of the indicators of instability. 
Iraq is No. 2 on the list, right after Sudan. That is the status quo. 
That is what we are trying to end--the failure of a policy in Iraq 
which has led the Iraqi leaders to believe that there is an open-ended 
commitment on the part of the United States to give them protection in 
that green zone to the extent that it exists. It is that open-ended 
commitment of the United States that must end--if we are going to prod 
the Iraqi leaders to finally step up, look into the abyss and make a 
decision, do they want a civil war or do they want a nation?

Mr. President, we cannot save them from themselves. To say that we 
don't want a failed state in Iraq is to say we don't want the status 
quo to continue, that the course must change in Iraq.

So I will vote for the Cornyn amendment because I think it states, in 
general terms at least, what I hope Members of the Senate would all 
agree on--that a failed state in Iraq is not in the interest of this 
Nation.