---
---

# None
## `03442a1a2ec5791e211ea0b6ad7caf2a`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. As we come to a close, Mr. Larson, I just want 
to again thank you for joining not only Mr. Ryan and I tonight but you 
have been here before in the past. I would encourage, especially with 
you being in the top four of our leadership here in the House, our 
elected leadership as relates to the Democratic Caucus, I know that you 
give voice to many of us that are out here pushing every day. We have 
good people working, not only Chairman Emanuel, but also Mr. Jim 
Clyburn and also Mr. Hoyer and Speaker Pelosi.

I think it's important that we continue to push this issue on, 
because we are going to need bipartisanship to be able to move this 
agenda of safety for our men and women that are in harm's way, move 
this agenda for those families that are waiting on their loved ones to 
come home, move this agenda, Mr. Speaker, that the American people want 
us to move in a new direction. If we can just put partisanship aside 
just for a moment to do that, it will be a place in history in this 
country that we stood up on behalf of those men and women that are in 
harm's way and we followed the will of the American people. I just want 
to thank you, Mr. Larson, for being here.

Mr. Speaker, I can share this with you. A, we appreciate the Members 
who have worked with us on the 47 bipartisan measures. B, I think it's 
also important to know that as these issues move to the floor, many of 
these issues never would have made it to the floor if it wasn't for the 
leadership of the Speaker and our leadership team and the great Members 
here in the majority and even some of our Members in the minority. You 
know, we like to share here, some of the bills, on eight bills 
combined, they have 79 cosponsors, 76 of them are Democrats, 3 are 
Republicans. As Mr. Larson identified, some of those members of the 
Republican Conference that have come forth, Mr. Speaker, and said, hey, 
I've heard my constituents, I see what the American people are talking 
about, those moderate voices that are there. They should be commended. 
We spend a great deal of time letting them know, and I know when I see 
them in the hall and even some of my friends that don't necessarily see 
the light on this issue, we still take the time to talk in a very 
sensible way on this because this is work on behalf of the country.


We have Members that are Reservists, that are National Guard men and 
women, that are in the Coast Guard and other branches of the military, 
they're all counting on us to have those conversations and continue to 
work through the issues. You want to look at good government, you look 
at good government.

As I close, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Larson reminded me of something on 9/11. 
Everyone came together. Yes, my mother was a Member of Congress at that 
time. I remember she voted against giving the President authorization 
to go to war after that as it relates to Iraq. But I think it's 
important to be able to reflect on the past and find times when we have 
come together and try to find those times in the future and also work 
with the President. As much as I disagree with him on this issue of 
Iraq, I do respect the office of the presidency. I know every Member of 
Congress does. All we can do is continue to try to work together. But I 
do share with the Members that it is going to take bipartisanship 
because there are ways that they can block this from happening.

With that, Mr. Speaker, it was an honor addressing the House. I thank 
the gentleman from Connecticut and the gentleman from Ohio for joining 
me.
