# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `03465edc41497a01633f65251db9bb57`
`Ms. SCHWARTZ — 22 April 2009`

---


Ms. SCHWARTZ. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your important work.

When I was sworn into Congress in 2005, I reached out and wanted to 
secure a position on the House Budget Committee. I did so because I 
understood then, as I do now, that budgets are critically important. 
The Federal budget is not just abstract numbers on a page. It is a 
reflection of our priorities and our values and of the America that we 
want to leave to our children and our grandchildren.

The budget proposed by President Obama and modified by the Democratic 
Congress and before us today and going to conference committee is an 
economic road map that establishes the amount of money that Congress is 
authorized to spend in this year's appropriations bill. It does not set 
the level for specific programs, and it does not change current law. 
Both sides of the aisle understand this.

The budget looks forward; but before we do, we have to understand how 
we got where we are today and what we inherited. This administration, 
this Congress, inherited from the previous administration a record 
deficit of $5.8 trillion, doubling of the national debt in 8 years, 
tripling the amount of debt that's owed to foreign countries, and an 
economic recession the likes of which most of us have never seen.

The fact is that President Obama and Congress are dealing with 
enormous challenges, and that is why it is imperative that we pass a 
strong, responsible budget that addresses the immediate challenges 
before us and makes the investments that we need to make for our future 
economic competitiveness.

Our budget establishes a new fiscal framework. It includes a long 
overdue return to honest budgeting and fiscal responsibility. The 
budget embraces President Obama's goal to rebuild our economy and make 
those strategic target investments in health care, in energy and in 
national security. It is essential that we tackle the annual deficit, 
and we've laid out an ambitious marker that we are committed to cutting 
the deficit in half in 5 years.

First and foremost, then, we have an honest budgeting practice. The 
budget plans for spending in ways that we have not since I've been here 
and for the 8 years before for sure. It talks about spending and sets 
out spending for Iraq and Afghanistan, for domestic national disasters, 
for tax relief and for obligated entitlements.

Through the economic recovery and reinvestment plan, Congress has 
already taken action, significant action, to improve our economic 
competitiveness and well-being, and this budget builds on that by 
making investments again in education, in energy independence, and, 
yes, on health care for all Americans. Each of these areas requires us 
to find common ground. And this budget ensures that we are able, in 
Congress, working with the Senate, to define the specific means and the 
specific ways to accomplish these goals.



To compete in the 21st century global economy, we do need an educated 
and skilled workforce for the future, and this budget puts resources in 
early education initiatives and investments in basic education, K-12, 
and better enables Americans to afford to go to college with student 
loans.

Our economic and national security also depends on America being more 
energy independent, and this budget sets aside a revenue-neutral 
reserve fund that calls on Congress to find a way towards energy 
independence through alternative, home-grown, cleaner energy and energy 
efficiency.

And, of course, in health care: we have both a moral and economic 
responsibility to find a uniquely American solution to health care 
reform, to containing costs, to improving quality, to making sure that 
every American has access to health care. And, again, there is a 
revenue-neutral reserve fund with reconciliation language in this 
budget that calls on us to do the work in the next year to make sure 
that we can accomplish these goals.

These goals are shared by many Americans, and they are within our 
reach if we are to work together. We cannot continue the policies of 
the last 8 years. We need to change the way we do budgeting. We need to 
change our investments. We need to move forward with this budget.

Pennsylvania, and certainly all American families and businesses, 
need Congress to work with President Obama again to work together to 
address their concerns, as has been set out in this budget. Simply 
saying ''no,'' simply saying we should go back to the policies of the 
last 8 years that got us in this mess is not the way to go.



I call on all of us to work together to move forward on this 
conference report to make sure we are doing all that we can to make 
sure that America is strong, safe and more economically competitive. 
This budget does that, and I say we move forward.