---
---

# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUESTS--AMENDMENT NO. 1401
## `034f61faf5f7506e823ef2cecd5cb8f8`
`Mr. REID — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I want to express my apology to my friends 
because I held them up for a few minutes on their being able to speak. 
I apologize for that, but they do have a full hour.

Mr. President, my worst fears on this bill, the Defense authorization 
bill, have been realized. We have just seen the Republican leadership 
again resort to this technical maneuver to block progress on this 
crucial amendment. It would be one thing for the minority to vote 
against this bill. If they honestly believe that ''stay the course'' is 
the right strategy, they have the right to vote no. Now Republicans are 
using a filibuster to block us from even voting on the amendment that 
could bring this war to a responsible end. They are blocking this like 
they did the Webb amendment. They are protecting the President rather 
than protecting our troops by denying us an up-or-down, yes-or-no vote 
on the most important issue our country faces.

So I say through you to my Democratic and Republican colleagues that 
we are going to work on this amendment until we get an up-or-down vote 
on it. If that means staying in session--we have no votes, of course, 
tonight, but if it means staying in session all day tomorrow and all 
tomorrow night, that is what we will have to do. I will file cloture so 
that we can have a Wednesday vote, if this continues. I certainly hope 
during the next few hours and tomorrow that we will have a change of 
mind so we can have a vote and then move on to the other amendments. 
The American people deserve an honest debate on this war and deserve an 
up-or-down vote on this amendment which we believe will bring a 
responsible end to this intractable war in Iraq.
