# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `035ae924006398eb8de7809a1b141ec3`
`Mr. MURTHA — 30 July 2009`

---


Mr. MURTHA. You are absolutely right. I am sorry, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Chairman, I want you to know that when I go to visit these plants 
and I see these people working, whose sons and daughters are fighting, 
they know how important these vests are. They know how important the 
work that they do is for the Defense Department.

I remember 20 years ago when I brought defense companies into my 
district and I had 24 percent unemployment. We didn't have the 
specifications. We didn't have any small business that could do the 
work. We didn't get any awards. Once we learned the ISOs, once we were 
able to perfect it, once we were able to compete--the people of my 
district are hardworking--we got the unemployment down to below the 
national level and diversified the economy.

All I can do is bring people in. I can't direct them where to do the 
business of the Defense Department. They do it on their own. They are 
the ones that award the contracts. I visit those plants and I see those 
hardworking people. I see what they do for this great country. Not only 
the troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, but the public who work in 
these defense organizations do everything they can to help this great 
country.

We put money into the budget. We have an obligation to take care of 
our district. We have an obligation to take care of this great country. 
And the people working in my district work hard.

I visit these plants and these bases all the time. I visit the troops 
and I ask them, What are your biggest problems? The biggest problem is 
employment, Mr. Chairman. The biggest problem is the fact that the 
vests are too heavy for Afghanistan. They are working on trying to get 
vests that aren't so heavy.

I just went out to the hospital the other day. I don't know how often 
Mr. Flake goes to the hospital. I am sure he goes quite often. Every 
week he probably goes to the hospital. But I will tell you this. I go 
to the hospital.

I saw a young fellow who was wounded two years ago. His organs were 
outside of his body for 10 days. He had a bag for about 6 months. He 
got rid of the bag. They did another operation.

This goes on continuously. Nobody has done more work for the medical 
profession, putting earmarks in for breast cancer, ovarian cancer, all 
of those things, because we feel so strongly about it.

We want a great defense in this country, and the people working in 
the defense industry do a great job. We don't appropriate this money 
for anybody except the people that do the work, and if they do the 
work, they are awarded the contracts. And they are competitive 
contracts, and it is very clear in our bill, and it doesn't come out of 
the bill. It has been in title X of the bill ever since I can remember. 
They have to be competitive if they are pro-profit.

With that, I yield back the balance of my time and ask for a ''no'' 
vote on the amendment.