# HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS
## `0370dc6e2ad60fb4ae8f202448ef812b`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Madam President, I was pleased to support the fiscal 
year 2008 Homeland Security appropriations bill. Our national security 
strategy needs to adapt in order to meet new and emerging threats while 
ensuring those in charge of protecting us have the resources they need. 
I am pleased to support the current Homeland Security appropriations 
bill which includes many important measures to keep our communities 
safe.

The Senate unanimously accepted my amendment to improve the Safe 
Skies program that I established a few years ago. The amendment will 
encourage the Transportation Security Administration and the airlines 
to better implement legislation I authored that allows first responders 
to volunteer to help flight crews in the event of an onboard emergency.

The bill would increase funding for State fire fighter and emergency 
management grants. Along with a bipartisan coalition of Senators, I 
wrote to Senate appropriators earlier in the year asking that they 
increase funding for these important grants. The appropriators agreed 
with our recommendations and recommended $700,000,000 for fire fighter 
grants and $300,000,000 for emergency management performance grants. 
These funds will help State and local agencies obtain the equipment and 
training they need to protect us against terrorist incidents and 
natural disasters.

I was disappointed that an amendment I cosponsored to fund 
decontamination units for the National Guard's Weapons of Mass 
Destruction Civil Support Teams, WMD-CST, did not receive a vote. As a 
result of legislation I authored, every State in this Nation now has a 
functional WMD-CST. The Department of Defense recently announced that 
it will soon finalize the certifications of all of these teams. I will 
continue to work to ensure that the National Guard receives the funds 
it needs to perform its homeland security operations.

The bill would appropriate the funds needed to hire 3,000 additional 
border patrol agents. This important provision will help us secure our 
borders and restore credibility to our immigration system. While I was 
deeply disappointed that the Senate was unable to reach a bipartisan 
compromise to implement comprehensive immigration reform, I am pleased 
that the bill will help improve our border security. I also supported 
an amendment offered by Senator Graham to appropriate an additional $3 
billion for additional border agents, infrastructure and technology. I 
was concerned that the amendment was not offset and that it authorized 
building 700 miles of fencing, which has not been demonstrated to be a 
realistic or cost-effective method of securing the border. However, I 
supported the amendment because the personnel, infrastructure, and 
technology provisions represent important steps toward border security, 
which is one of our top homeland security priorities.

The bill would permit States to enact chemical security regulations 
that are stronger than Federal regulations. Chemical security 
regulations are an urgent homeland security priority, and I support the 
ability of the States to set tougher standards.

Wisconsin residents and Americans across the country are concerned 
about the serious backlog in passport application process. This bill 
would delay the implementation of the Western Hemisphere Travel 
Initiative to keep the backlog from increasing until we have a chance 
to resolve this issue.

I voted to table an amendment offered by Senator Alexander that would 
have reduced funding for border, port and air security in order to 
provide increased funding for implementation of the REAL ID Act. That 
act is deeply flawed. While I am concerned that it remains an unfunded 
priority, I am also concerned that, if we head down the road of funding 
this misguided policy, the Senate will not take the necessary steps to 
reform the REAL ID Act. Moreover, the National Governors Association 
has estimated that the cost of implementing the REAL ID Act could reach 
$11 billion, which means that the increased funding provided by this 
amendment, $400 million, would do little to address the unfunded 
mandate of REAL ID while taking away money for pressing homeland 
security priorities. I will continue to push for reform of the REAL ID 
Act, to provide for proper funding of any Federal mandate in the 
reformed act, and to ensure that the implementation of the act is not 
rushed.

We are still spending almost twice as much on Iraq as is allocated 
for homeland security, diplomacy, and international assistance 
combined. The billions we spend each month in Iraq could be better 
invested in the protection of critical infrastructure and our system of 
national preparedness and response that failed in the wake of Hurricane 
Katrina. As we consider the defense appropriation this fall, I 
encourage my colleagues to take a broader view when it comes to our 
national security priorities and make the tradeoffs that must be made.

This bill would significantly increase spending on homeland security. 
I do not take lightly a decision to vote in favor of spending the 
taxpayers' money. Fiscal responsibility is one of my highest 
priorities, but it is imperative that we provide the resources needed 
to combat al-Qaida and its affiliates and protect the country.

I am pleased that the bill would appropriate funds to double the 
frequency of spot checks at regulated port facilities across the 
country, to conduct vulnerability assessments at 10 high risk ports, to 
create a radiation detection test center to help scan cargo and to 
purchase and install explosives detection equipment at airports. Much 
more remains to be done. I will continue to work to ensure that our 
national security strategies address the range of


threats we face and properly prioritizes homeland security.
