# TEXAS MILITARY VETERANS POST OFFICE
## `0376bf115b27130ad93f9e3ad58e754a`
`Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas — 14 April 2008`

---


Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to voice my 
support for combat veterans from the Lone Star State. You have heard a 
lot of stories from Ted Poe.

As a 29-year Air Force veteran and Texas native, I think it's great 
that Humble, Texas, will have a post office dedicated to those selfless 
men and women in the Armed Forces; and I commend my friend, Ted Poe, 
for spearheading this effort.

You know, many war heroes from Iraq and Afghanistan call the Lone 
Star State home. He mentioned one of


them, but as an example, you may know the name Marcus Luttrell. He was 
a Petty Officer First Class born in Huntsville, Texas, a former Navy 
SEAL, awarded the Navy Cross and wrote the New York Times best-selling 
book ''Lone Survivor.'' The book details his remarkable story of 
surviving one of the war's deadliest battles for U.S. Special Forces. I 
had the honor of meeting him last week, and he's a remarkable 
individual.

Ted mentioned Monica Lin Brown, the 19-year-old medic from Texas who 
became the first woman in Afghanistan and only the second woman since 
World War II to receive the Silver Star, the Nation's third highest 
medal for valor. Army Specialist Monica Lin Brown saved the lives of 
fellow soldiers after a roadside bomb tore through a convoy of Humvees 
last spring in Afghanistan. After the explosion which wounded five 
soldiers in her unit, Brown ran through insurgent gunfire and used her 
body to shield wounded comrades as mortars fell less than 100 yards 
away.

While today I have only mentioned Iraq and Afghanistan, I could go on 
for hours, as Ted Poe did, highlighting noticeable Texans who have gone 
above and beyond their service to this great Nation.

I want to thank Mr. Poe and Humble, Texas, for recognizing those men 
and women who proudly wear the uniform for the United States of 
America. They help keep America the land of the free and the home of 
the brave. I salute all of our veterans.

God bless you and may God continue to bless our great Nation. I 
salute all of you in this Chamber for your support for our veterans.