---
---

# LEGISLATIVE SESSION
## `03761ed356654761a90e54476390bd32`
`Mr. INHOFE — 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I have come to the floor over the past 
several years, countless times, talking about a resource we have called 
Guantanamo Bay. People refer to it as Gitmo.

I was distressed about some of the statements our President made when 
he made the comment that we are going to close Gitmo and make sure 
there is no more torture. I have to say, there has never been one 
documented case of torture in Guantanamo Bay. It is ludicrous that 
people would say this. Every time I talk to someone who says we have to 
close Guantanamo Bay and you ask them what the reason for that is, they 
turn around and they say: It is because the people in the Middle East 
and some people in Europe think there is torture that has been going 
on. It goes back to the Abu Ghraib thing. This had nothing to do with 
Abu Ghraib. There has never been a documented case of torture.

Let's look at this resource. We got Gitmo in 1903. It is one of the 
best bargains we have had in government because we only paid $4,000 a 
year for this. It is a state-of-the-art prison. We don't have anything 
in the United States that is as secure and as humane as Gitmo. They 
have a ratio of doctors to detainees of two to one, the same with legal 
help. I have been down there several times. If you talk to the ones who 
won't be throwing something at you, they will tell you they have never 
had food and treatment as good as they have had down there. I can't 
imagine we would take a resource such as that and close it down and 
bring some 200 or 240 terrorists to the United States. Yet that is 
exactly what the President is talking about doing.

I was shocked when I picked up the newspaper on Monday morning and 
saw that Ahmed Ghailani, who was the terrorist who bombed the embassies 
in Tanzania and Kenya, was actually brought to the United States. He is 
in New York today. I didn't know about it until I read it in the 
newspaper. He is going to be adjudicated or go to trial in our court 
system.

Here is the problem we have with that. These people in Guantanamo Bay 
are terrorists, detainees. These are not criminals. These are not 
people who committed a crime. They are not people to whom the normal 
rules of evidence would apply. In fact, most of the rules of evidence, 
it was assumed, would be in the form of military tribunals. Of course, 
those rules are different than they are in the court system. What will 
happen when you have some of the worst terrorists in the world coming 
up and getting tried in our system and we find out they have to be 
acquitted because the rules of evidence are not what they were during 
the time they were brought into custody?

We have this resource we have used since 1903. It is the only place 
in the world we can actually put detainees. The President has said 
there are some 17 prisons in the United States where we can incarcerate 
these people. I suggest--and I don't think anyone will refute this--if 
you did that, you would have 17 magnets for terrorism.

One of the places they suggested happened to be Fort Sill in 
Oklahoma. I went down to Fort Sill. There is a young lady there who is 
a sergeant major in charge of our prison. She said: What is wrong with 
those people in Washington? What is wrong with the President, thinking 
that we can incarcerate terrorists here in Oklahoma?

This young lady was also a sergeant major at Guantanamo just a few 
months ago. She went back and she said: That is the greatest facility. 
There is no place where we can replicate that thing.

She said: On top of that, we have the courtroom that was built.

We spent 12 months and $12 million on a courtroom where we could have 
military tribunals, and they were going on. And President Obama ordered 
them to stop, and he wanted to bring them to the United States to be 
adjudicated here. This is outrageous.

I have heard people on the Senate floor talk about how bad Guantanamo 
Bay is. They will never be specific. They will never talk about what is 
wrong with Guantanamo Bay. What are they doing? Are they torturing 
people? No. Are they being mistreated? No. There are six levels of 
security. When you are dealing with terrorist detainees, you have to 
put them in areas where the level of their activity is greater and 
requires more or less security, and we have that opportunity to do it 
there. No place else in America, no place else in the world can they do 
that.

By the way, it is not just 245 detainees whom we have to deal with. 
It is worse than that because in Afghanistan, with the surge taking 
place right now, there will be more detainees. There are two major 
prisons: Bagram--and I can't remember the other one in Afghanistan. 
They will say they could be incarcerated there. No, they won't, because 
they won't accept any detainees who are not from Afghanistan. So if 
they are from Djibouti or from Saudi Arabia or someplace else, we have 
to have a place to put them or else you turn them loose or else you 
execute them.

A lot of these people who think they should not be incarcerated in 
any prison at all, you have to keep in mind, you can't turn them loose 
on society. These are people who are not normal, people like normal 
criminals. First of all, they have no fear of death. It is just 
ingrained in them. These are people who want to kill all of us. So we 
are talking about very dangerous people.

I am very much concerned. I did not believe President Obama would go 
through with bringing terrorists to the United States. I didn't think 
that would happen. Yet I picked up the paper Monday morning and there 
it is. Ahmed Ghailani, one of the worst terrorists around, killed 244 
people, many Americans, in Tanzania and Kenya. This is something that I 
know the American people don't want. I would hope many of my good 
Democratic friends are not going to line up and support President Obama 
in bringing these terrorists to the United States.

I guess I am prejudiced. I have 20 kids and grandkids. I don't want a 
bunch of terrorists in this country where they are subjected to that 
type of thing. The fact is, they would be magnets; there is no doubt in 
my mind. This Sergeant Major Carter at Fort Sill said that if we put 
them down there, they would be in a position where it would draw 
terrorist activity to my State of Oklahoma.

By the way, I think there are 27 State legislatures that have passed 
resolutions saying they don't want any of the detainees located in 
their States. I can assure my colleagues that every one of the 17 
proposed sites that would house these people is a site where they have 
passed resolutions saying: We don't want them here.

The liberal press is always talking about how bad things are and we 
have to close Gitmo. If you go down there, you find that those people 
have never been there. Almost without exception--I don't know of one 
exception where if they have gone down there and they have seen how 
humanely people are treated, they have seen a resource down there that 
we can't replicate any place in the United States, they come back 
shaking their heads saying: What is wrong with keeping Gitmo open? Even 
Al Jazeera went down there. That is a Middle Eastern network. They went 
down and had to admit publicly that the treatment was better there


than it is in any of the prisons they are familiar with.


Abu Ghraib was a different situation. Yes, some of our troops were 
involved in that. Most people wouldn't call it torture. It is more 
humiliation than anything else. But nonetheless, they did that. But the 
interesting thing about Abu Ghraib is, prior to the time that the 
public was aware that was going on, the Army had already come in and 
started their discipline, and it stopped that type of thing from taking 
place. But even if it weren't, for people to think just because there 
was something in their minds that was torture that was going on in Abu 
Ghraib, to even suggest that was going on in Guantanamo Bay is totally 
fictitious.

I have been privileged to take several Members down with me to see 
this firsthand. I think every Member of the Senate should have to go 
down and see for himself or herself what is really going on down there.

We can't afford to take a chance on turning terrorists loose in the 
United States. The polling that came out just this morning showed that 
by a margin of 3 to 1, people do not want to close Guantanamo Bay. We 
have to keep Gitmo open.

I was in a state of shock when I found out that one of the worst 
terrorists incarcerated down there was brought back to face justice in 
our court system in New York.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.