# EXPRESSING UNCONDITIONAL SUPPORT FOR MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD
## `037aaa9927c924029ea0810e9342b636`
`Mrs. CHRISTENSEN — 17 December 2007`

---


Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 542 which 
expresses the unconditional support of the House of Representatives for 
our brave men and women who serve as members of the National Guard.

Over the past several years, the National Guard has confirmed their 
willingness to serve our country, often giving up their civilian 
careers to be deployed in Iraq or Afghanistan or other parts of our 
country where their particular expertise is needed.

The National Guard has done this all the while fulfilling their 
traditional duties in times of domestic emergencies, leading recovery 
efforts in case of flood, fire, hurricane, snowstorm, tornado or civil 
disturbance.

Mr. Speaker, I am especially proud of the Army and Air National Guard 
units from my district, the U.S. Virgin Islands, who are deployed in 
Iraq and Afghanistan and at other bases and installations across the 
country. Our entire territory gives its overwhelming support to the 
651st GS Maintenance Company in Iraq, D Company 126th Aviation at Ft. 
Benning, GA, other individual soldiers stationed in Afghanistan, Iowa, 
Hawaii and Kuwait.

We also remember that two of our Guard, LTC David Canegata and Staff 
Sgt. Floyd Lake, made the ultimate sacrifice earlier this year when 
their Blackhawk helicopter went down in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, along with my constituents in the territory, I pray for 
the safe return of all our men and women in the military.