---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `037f61312defd2967e1c85f772c5881f`
`Mr. HARKIN — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, today I am offering legislation to close 
the U.S. military presence at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. There is remarkable 
agreement on the need to find a way to close this prison. Our closest 
allies have all urged that Guantanamo be closed, as have many leaders 
from across the political spectrum in the United States.

Last June, after three detainees committed suicide in a single day, 
President Bush acknowledged that the prison has damaged America's 
reputation abroad. The President said:




 No question, Guantanamo sends a signal to some of our 


 friends--provides an excuse, for example, to say that the 


 United States is not upholding the values that they're trying 


 to encourage other countries to adhere to.


The President said:




 I'd like to close Guantanamo.


More recently, Secretary of Defense Gates and Secretary of State Rice 
have urged that the prison be shut down. On March 23, the Washington 
Post, citing ''senior administration officials,'' reported Secretary 
Gates had ''repeatedly argued that the detention facility at Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba, had become so tainted abroad that legal proceedings at 
Guantanamo would be viewed as illegitimate.'' According to the Post, 
Secretary Gates ''told President Bush and others that it should be shut 
down as quickly as possible.''

Make no mistake, current detainees at Guantanamo include a number of 
extremely dangerous terrorists with the determination and the ability--
if they are given the opportunity--to inflict grave harm on the United 
States and its citizens. Among the detainees are 14 senior leaders of 
al-Qaida, including Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who has confessed to being 
one of the masterminds of the September 11 attacks, plus others. We 
must, and we can, hold these enemy combatants in maximum security 
confinement elsewhere.

But the critics are right. The 5-year-old prison at Guantanamo is a 
stain on the honor of this country. By holding people at Guantanamo 
without charge, without judicial review, without appropriate legal 
counsel, and--in the past--subjecting many of them to torture, we have 
forfeited the moral high ground and we stand as hypocrites in the eyes 
of the world.

Perhaps most seriously, from a pragmatic standpoint, maintaining the 
prison at Guantanamo is simply counterproductive. It has become a 
propaganda bonanza and recruitment tool for terrorists. It alienates 
our friends and allies. It detracts from our ability to regain the 
moral high ground, and rally the world against the terrorists who 
threaten us.

The administration has repeatedly described detainees at Guantanamo 
as ''the worst of the worst'' or, as former Secretary of Defense 
Rumsfeld once described them, the ''most dangerous, best-trained, 
vicious killers on the face of the earth.'' Unquestionably, some of the 
detainees fit these descriptions. However, an exhaustive study of 
Guantanamo detainees conducted by the nonpartisan, highly respected 
National Journal last year came to the following conclusions: A large 
percentage, perhaps the majority, of the detainees were not captured on 
any battlefield, let alone on ''the battlefield in Afghanistan,'' as 
the President once asserted. Fewer than 20 percent of the detainees 
have ever been al-Qaida members. Many scores, and perhaps hundreds, of 
the detainees were not even Taliban foot soldiers, let alone al-Qaida 
members. The majority were not captured by U.S. forces but, rather, 
handed over by reward-seeking Pakistanis, Afghan warlords, and by 
villagers of highly dubious reliability. For example, one of the 
detainees is a man who was conscripted by the Taliban to work as an 
assistant cook. The U.S. Government's ''evidence'' against this 
detainee consists in its entirety of the following:

One, the detainee admits he was a cook's assistant for Taliban forces 
in Narim, Afghanistan, under the command of Haji Mullah Baki.

Two, the detainee fled from Narim to Kabul during the Northern 
Alliance attack and surrendered to the Northern Alliance.

This person is still sitting in Guantanamo.

The situation at Guantanamo, I must add, reminds me of an earlier 
episode in this Senator's life. In July of 1970, I was a staff 
assistant to a House committee in the House of Representatives. I was 
working with a congressional delegation on a factfinding trip to 
Vietnam. I brought back photographs of the so-called tiger cages at Con 
Son Island, off the coast of Vietnam, where Viet Cong and some North 
Vietnamese prisoners, as well as civilian opponents of the war, were 
all being held together, held incommunicado, tortured and killed, with 
the full knowledge, support, and sanction of the United States 
Government. We had heard reports about the possible existence of these 
tiger cages. But our State Department vehemently denied their 
existence. They dismissed all of these claims as communist propaganda.


Well, I looked into this and believed the reports were credible. I 
was determined to investigate further to see if they did exist. Thanks 
to the courage of Congressman William Anderson of Tennessee, 
Congressman Augustus Hawkins of California, Don Luce, an American 
working for a nongovernmental organization, and a brave, young 
Vietnamese man who risked his life and his brother's life, who was 
still held on Con Son in the tiger cages, who drew us the maps and 
showed us how to find the tiger cages at these prisons--Nguyen Caoli 
was the young man's name. He risked it all by trusting us. Thanks to 
his maps and telling us how to find them, we were able to expose the 
tiger cages on Con Son Island in July of 1970.

Supporters of the war claimed the tiger cages were not all that bad. 
But then Life Magazine and other magazines around the world published 
the pictures I had surreptitiously taken on Con Son, and the world saw 
the horrific conditions, as I said, with Vietnamese guerrillas, as well 
as civilian opponents


of the war, all crowded together in these cages, in clear violation of 
the Geneva Conventions, and in violation of the most fundamental 
principles of human rights.

At the time, the United States Government had been insisting the 
North Vietnamese abide by the Geneva Conventions in their treatment of 
United States prisoners in North Vietnam. Yet, here we were condoning, 
funding, and even supervising the torture of Vietnamese prisoners and 
civilians, whose only crime was protesting the war, all in clear 
violation of the Geneva Conventions.

There are disturbing parallels between what transpired on Con Son 
Island nearly four decades ago and what happened at Guantanamo in 
recent years. In both cases, prisons were deliberately set up on remote 
islands, clearly with the intention of limiting scrutiny and 
restricting access. In both cases, detainees were not classified as 
prisoners of war, expressly to deny them the protections of the Geneva 
Conventions. In both cases, detainees were deprived of any right of due 
process, judicial review, or a fair trial.

They were simply held indefinitely in isolation, in limbo. In both 
cases, when the mistreatment of detainees was exposed, the United 
States stood accused of hypocrisy, of betraying its most sacred values, 
and of violating international law.

So you can see why I have watched what has transpired at Guantanamo, 
and I have thought back to that episode in my life when all of this 
came out about the tiger cages and the inhumane treatment of these 
several hundred prisoners who were there at the time. There was a happy 
ending to that event. Because of the international outcry, the tiger 
cages were closed down, the prisoners were released, and people went 
back to their homes.

Many of them who were in the tiger cages I met later on in life. One 
became the mayor of Saigon, several became successful businesspeople, 
and others went on with their lives. But watching what happened at 
Guantanamo and seeing that many of these people were swept up in a war 
which some of them--many of them--well, the National Journal says a 
majority of them were not even engaged.

So it is time to close it down. We need to reverse the damage 
Guantanamo has done to America's reputation and to our ability to wage 
an effective fight against the terrorists who attacked us on September 
11, and the essential first step must be to close the prison at 
Guantanamo as expeditiously as possible. The bill I am introducing 
today offers a practical approach to accomplishing this within 120 days 
of enactment of the law.

As I said, there are known hardcore terrorists at Guantanamo, such as 
Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, who must continue to be held in maximum-
security conditions. Under my bill, these prisoners will be transferred 
to the U.S. detention base at Fort Leavenworth, KS. This is a state-of-
the-art maximum-security facility just opened in 2002. It has adequate 
capacity to receive these prisoners from Guantanamo. Under my bill, the 
remaining prisoners, some 365 in number, would have their legal status 
resolved. In each case, the administration will determine whether the 
prisoner planned or committed hostile acts against the United States. 
Those who did plan or commit hostile acts would be charged and 
transferred to Fort Leavenworth. Those who did not would be released to 
the custody of their home country or, where necessary, to a country 
where they would not face torture.

There is a pending bill, S. 1249, to close the prison at Guantanamo. 
However, that bill gives the administration too much leeway to maintain 
the status quo in terms of the detainees' legal status. It allows an 
enemy combatant to be detained indefinitely without charge--that is 
what is getting us into trouble in the first place--and it does not 
require that the administration abide by the Convention Against 
Torture, nor does it give detainees a forum in which to lodge credible 
claims of torture or abuse. The bill I am introducing does all of that.

The United States has lost its way, both in Iraq and at Guantanamo. 
We need to wage a smarter, more focused, and more effective fight 
against the terrorists who threaten us, and we must do so in ways that 
do not give credence to their anti-American propaganda and do not rally 
more recruits to their cause. To that end, we must close the prison at 
Guantanamo as soon as possible. The legislation I am offering today 
will accomplish this.

This legislation has the enthusiastic endorsement of Human Rights 
Watch, Human Rights First, Amnesty International, and the American 
Civil Liberties Union. I urge my colleagues to support the bill.

Mr. President, I ask unamimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.