---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `038214e21776fa99764665eb5e2f1b1a`
`Ms. COLLINS — 16 September 2008`

---


Ms. COLLINS. I thank the Senator.

Mr. President, this legislation will provide essential training, 
equipment, and support to our troops as they engage in combat overseas 
and in exercises at home. It also offers an important opportunity for 
continued debate as to our Nation's strategy in Iraq, especially the 
cost of reconstruction in Iraq.

I am particularly pleased the legislation we are now debating 
contains an amendment that Senators Ben Nelson, Evan Bayh, and I 
offered to alleviate the burden on the American taxpayers of our 
operations in Iraq. It is time for the Iraqis to pay more of the costs 
of securing, rebuilding, and stabilizing their own country. During the 
Armed Services Committee markup, I joined Senators Nelson and Bayh in 
authoring the provisions that are in this bill which shift to the Iraqi 
Government the costs of securing and rebuilding Iraq in order to lift 
that burden from the shoulders of the American taxpayers.

While our country is struggling with a soaring deficit, the Iraqi 
Government is awash in oil revenues. The Special Inspector General for 
Iraq Reconstruction has estimated that Iraq's oil profits will reach 
$70 billion this year. That is far more than the Government of Iraq 
anticipated when it established its budget of $47 billion.

Similarly, on August 5, the Government Accountability Office issued a 
report that provided an in-depth examination of Iraqi revenues, 
expenditures, and surpluses. This GAO report underscores the need for 
our amendment requiring the Iraqi Government to assume greater 
responsibility for its own costs. The report verifies the stronger 
financial position of the Iraqis due to the unanticipated windfall 
brought about by record-high oil revenues. According to the GAO, Iraq 
is likely to receive between $67 billion and $79 billion in revenues 
from oil sales in 2008 alone--twice the average of revenues between 
2005 and 2007. Yet the Iraqis still have not adequately invested in 
reconstruction efforts in their own country. In fact, they have spent 
just 28 percent of the $12 billion investment budget.

In addition, the Iraqis had approximately $29 billion in surplus 
funds that actually went unused during the past 2 years. When Americans 
are struggling with the high cost of energy, a weakening economy, and a 
burdensome deficit, there is simply no reason for the American 
taxpayers to continue paying for the major reconstruction projects, for 
the salaries, training, and equipping of the Iraqi security forces, or 
the cost of fuel in a country that has the second largest oil reserves 
and a burgeoning budget surplus.

Our bipartisan amendment would shift these costs to the Iraqis. 
Specifically, our amendment prohibits America's tax dollars from being 
spent on major reconstruction projects in Iraq. It requires the Iraqis 
to assume the responsibility of paying for the salaries, training, and 
equipping of Iraq's security forces, including the army, the police, 
and the Sons of Iraq; it initiates negotiations between our Government 
and the Iraqi Government on a plan to cover other expenses, such as the 
fuel used by American forces when they are in-country.

Our proposal was approved unanimously by the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, and it represents a significant bipartisan change in our 
policy in Iraq.

The fact is, the American taxpayers cannot wait for the 
administration to act. We must require this significant reform by 
changing the law. Asking the Iraqis to take more responsibility for 
their own security and for the reconstruction of their own country will 
give them a sense of ownership, and it makes common sense given Iraq's 
growing budget surplus. That is the purpose of our provision, and I 
urge my colleagues to support the proposal that we have incorporated 
into the Defense authorization bill.

The legislation before us also includes a strong commitment to 
strengthening Navy shipbuilding by including more than $14 billion for 
shipbuilding programs. It fully supports the Navy's shipbuilding 
priorities. The declining size of our naval fleet is of great concern 
to me. This legislation is an important step toward reversing that 
troubling decline.

The Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Roughead, has put forth a plan 
for a 313-ship Navy. It would address longstanding congressional 
concerns that naval shipbuilding has been inadequately funded. The 
instability and


inadequacy of previous naval shipbuilding budgets has had a number of 
troubling effects on our shipbuilding industrial base and has 
contributed to significant cost growth in the Navy's shipbuilding 
programs. The 313-ship plan, combined with more robust funding by 
Congress, will begin to reverse the decline in Navy shipbuilding.

This bill authorizes funding for construction of a third Zumwalt 
class destroyer. The DDG-1000 represents a significant advancement in 
Navy surface combatant technology.

It is critical that the construction of the first two DDG-1000 
destroyers continue on schedule without further delay. It is equally 
important that Congress provide full funding for the third ship.

The dedicated and highly skilled workers at our Nation's surface 
combatant shipyards, such as the Bath Iron Works in my great State of 
Maine, are simply too valuable to jeopardize with any cuts or delays in 
this program. To date, the Navy has spent more than $11 billion on 
research, development, detailed design, and advanced procurement for 
this program. In addition, industry, including not just our shipyards 
but also a multitude of vendors in over 48 States, has made significant 
investments in preparation for building this new class of ship. It is 
critically important in these tight budget times that we not throw away 
the investment our country has made as the Navy prepares to build the 
destroyer for the 21st century. That is why I am so concerned that the 
House version of the Defense authorization bill eliminates funding for 
the construction of a third ship, and even more troubling, does not 
provide sufficient funding for the construction of any surface 
combatant.

Mr. President, as the threats from around the world continue to grow, 
it is vitally important that the Navy have the best fleet available to 
counter those threats, keep the sealanes open, and to defend our 
Nation.

Bath Iron Works and the shipyards of this country are ready to build 
whatever ships the Navy needs. But it is vitally important that there 
not be a gap in shipbuilding that jeopardizes our industrial base. I am 
pleased with the funding provided in this bill. I look forward to 
resolving this important issue in conference.

Earlier this year, the Navy proposed to truncate the DDG-1000 program 
after just two ships. In July, after further evaluation, the Navy 
realized the terrible effect that such a decision would have on the 
industrial base and on our shipyards, in particular. It would have 
created a gap in work for Bath Iron Works because of the delays and 
costs inherent in restarting the DDG-51 line.

It is important to note that Bath Iron Works is prepared to build 
whatever ships the Navy needs, but that there must be a stable work 
plan to sustain the industrial base. The best way to achieve that goal, 
and to take advantage of the billions of dollars already invested in 
the DDG-1000, is to proceed with the third ship at this time even if 
the Navy ultimately decides to build more DDG-51s.

 The House version of this bill would also require that the next-
generation class of amphibious ships be powered by nuclear propulsion 
systems, even though the shipyard that currently builds those ships 
does not have either the facilities or certifications required to 
construct nuclear-powered ships. This provision could dramatically 
increase the costs of future amphibious force vessels, with some 
estimates stating it could be as much as $800 million more per ship. 
This would reduce the overall number of ships that could be built at a 
time when the Navy is seeking to revitalize and modernize its fleet. It 
is completely contradictory to the Chief of Naval Operations 313-ship 
plan.

I am pleased that our Senate bill also includes funding for 
additional littoral combat ships. While this program has suffered a 
number of setbacks, the Navy, with the help of Congress, has taken 
significant steps in order to begin to get this program under control. 
These ships are important for the Navy in order to counter new, 
asymmetric threats, and the Navy needs to get these ships to the fleet 
soon.

I am pleased that the Senate Armed Services Committee also agreed to 
my request for $25 million in additional funding to continue the 
modernization program for the DDG-51 Arleigh Burke class destroyers. 
This program provides significant savings to the Navy by applying some 
of the technology that is being developed for the DDG-1000 destroyer 
and back fitting the DDG-51, which may reduce the crew size by 30 to 40 
sailors.

The Senate's fiscal 2009 Defense authorization bill also includes 
funding for other defense-related projects that benefit Maine and our 
national security.

The bill also authorizes $20.6 million for construction of a new 
drydock support facility at the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, 
ME. This drydock, and its accompanying support facility, are essential 
for the shipyard's future work on Virginia-class submarines, the Navy's 
newest attack submarine.

Funding is provided for machine guns and grenade launchers, both of 
which are manufactured by the highly skilled workers at Saco Defense in 
Saco, ME.

 In addition, the legislation provides $1.5 million to the University 
of Maine for the continued research and development of modular 
ballistic tent insert panels. These panels provide crucial protection 
to servicemembers in temporary dining and housing facilities in mobile 
forward operating bases in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The bill also authorizes an additional $1.5 million for the 
University of Maine's work on high temperature sensors that is 
important to the Air Force. These sensors are capable of sensing 
physical properties such as temperature, pressure, corrosion and 
vibration in critical aerospace components.

The legislation also provides $3.5 million for further development of 
the ripsaw ground vehicle, an innovative unmanned tank-like vehicle, 
manufactured by Howe and Howe Technologies in North Berwick, ME. This 
technology will have the ability to provide force security for our 
troops by taking them directly out of harm's way.

Finally, I am pleased that this bipartisan Defense bill also 
authorizes a 3.9 percent across-the-board pay increase for 
servicemembers, half a percent above the President's budget request.

This bill provides the necessary resources to our troops and our 
Nation and recognizes the enormous contributions made by the State of 
Maine. The bill provides the necessary funding for our troops, and I 
offer it my full support.