# BRING OUR TROOPS HOME AND SOVEREIGNTY OF IRAQ RESTORATION ACT
## `0382e6355c95db8028d30d6e77241cd7`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 17 January 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, earlier today, I joined with my good 
friends, distinguished colleagues and fellow Californians, 
Congresswoman Barbara Lee and Congresswoman Maxine Waters, in 
introducing landmark legislation that would bring our troops home from 
Iraq within a 6-month time frame.

The Bring Our Troops Home and Sovereignty of Iraq Restoration Act is 
the first comprehensive legislative proposal to end the military 
occupation and provide a framework to help bring stability back to 
Iraq.

One week ago, when he addressed the Nation, President Bush 
demonstrated to the world that he continues to remain blind to the 
realities on the ground in Iraq. Instead of putting forth a plan that 
will withdraw our troops, the President is increasing our military 
presence, escalating the number of troops by over 20,000. What 
President Bush fails to grasp is that our military presence is only 
fueling the insurgency, plunging Iraq further into chaos and civil war.

Mr. Speaker, the November elections showed just exactly how fed up 
Americans are with the President's failed Iraq policy. It is time now 
to honor that mandate. It is now up to the Congress to catch up with 
the will of the people.

During his weekly radio address on Saturday, President Bush 
challenged those of us who disagree with him to offer a plan of our 
own. Today, we have taken up his challenge.

The Congress has already appropriated funding that will support our 
troops and keep this occupation going for at least another 6 months, 
possibly longer. That funding, instead, should be used to finance an 
aggressive withdrawal plan that brings our troops home to their 
families; and our bill would do exactly that.

Our plan will also withdraw all U.S. troops and military contractors 
from Iraq within 6 months from date of enactment.

It will prohibit any further funding to deploy or continue to deploy 
U.S. troops in Iraq. The bill does, however, allow for funding to be 
used as needed to ensure safe withdrawal of all U.S. military personnel 
and contractors. Funding may also be used for the increased training 
and equipping of Iraqi and international security forces.

Thirdly, it accelerates during the 6-month transition training of a 
permanent Iraqi security force.

And fourth, it authorizes, if requested by the Iraqi government, U.S. 
support for an international stabilization force. Such a force could be 
funded for no longer than 2 years and be combined with economic and 
humanitarian assistance.

It guarantees full health care funding, including mental health for 
U.S. veterans and military operations in Iraq and other conflicts.

In addition, Mr. Speaker, the bill would rescind the 2002 
congressional authorization for the war in Iraq, prohibit the 
construction of permanent U.S. military bases in the country, and 
finally, ensure that the U.S. has no long-term control over Iraqi oil.

We believe that the oil in Iraq belongs to the Iraqi people, and we 
believe that when this oil goes into the world marketplace, the 
international marketplace, the U.S. will certainly have access to our 
share.

Mr. Speaker, excluding the veterans' benefits, our plan will cost the 
American people pennies on the dollar compared to continuing the 
occupation of 2 more years in Iraq. It will save lives, bodies and 
minds, and it will give Iraq back to the Iraqis.

The Bring Our Troops Home and Sovereignty of Iraq Act is an important 
step in regaining our country's credibility in the region and 
throughout the world, and it provides the President and Congress with a 
comprehensive strategy for responding to the majority of Americans who 
want our troops to come home.
