# IN TRIBUTE TO MAJOR ALEA HOKUAO MORNINGSTAR
## `038bfb4948169bafe72dbc4a70e6bb8d`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 29 October 2007`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, poet and capitol tour 
guide Albert C. Caswell has penned a number of heartfelt tributes to 
our military, and recently, he has recognized the service of Major Alea 
Hokuao Morningstar, U.S. Army.

Major Morningstar has served in Iraq extending care to coalition and 
civilian casualties. As an emergency physician, she has served 
honorably and bravely at three combat support hospitals and as a field 
surgeon.

Major Morningstar symbolizes the professionalism of America's 
military. I want to thank her and all the brave men and women of our 
armed forces for their service. They are fighting to defend our freedom 
and protect American families.

I gladly submit the following into the Record.



 A Morning Star,


 That's who you are . . .


 A light which shines so very fine . . . so very far, that's 





 who you are . . .



 A woman of heart,


 Of Hopi Sioux, great American Indian blood . . . a fine woman 





 of soul . . .


 A healer, a great Hawaiian . . . For, but the gift of life . 





 . . to so give, as what you chose . . .



 A light,


 In the darkest of days and nights . . .


 Which burns bright, as a Morning Star . . . can cheat death, 





 can so bless . . . and can give fight!



 Out in darkness of evil war, out in harms way . . .


 Amidst the darkness and solemn gray . . . amidst the death, 





 and all of that sad decay . . .


 To save a life, to hold a dying hero's hand until that night 





 . . . Morning Star, that was your way . . .



 As there, in The ER . . .


 You'd hear the screams, and the devil's roar it seems . . . 





 trying to save life, you'd go far!


 All in the midst of his evil gore, all in the face of hell . 





 . . you fine heart choose to swell, for one life more



 Living in the shadow of death,


 Pouring out your very heart and soul, until none lies left . 





 . .


 As with your God given skills, the gift of life and hope you 





 instilled . . . staying with the dying until death!



 A young hero's last vision, before they were gone . . .


 A bright Morning Star, holding their hand . . . as was your 





 decision, not leaving them alone . . .


 The last Angel they would see on Earth, showing your worth . 





 . . with tears in eyes your mission honed!



 And in the coming years,


 There will be many a tear, when in that moment it all comes 





 back to you . . . so here . . .


 But, what baby born . . . to save the world . . . or love so 





 great, to this our world adorned that you saved here!



 And for all of those Mothers of Sons,


 And all of those Fathers of Daughters, who so lost their most 





 precious of all loved ones . . .


 They may gain strength, in knowing what your love to their 





 dying loved ones so meant! At the end!



 A Morning Star,


 Yes, my Lady . . . that's who you are . . .


 A light which shines so very bright . . . so very far, into 





 the night, that's who you are!



 High above,


 With your gift of life, you gift of love . . .


 Holding a dying hero's hand, On The Wings of a Dove!
