# UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `0395be8c51c86eebaef439d37f949e99`
`Ms. RICHARDSON â€” 22 July 2010`

---


Ms. RICHARDSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Senate 
amendments to H.R. 4213, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 
2010, which will extend unemployment benefits to millions of Americans 
that are in dire need of support. Without this legislation these 
families will lose the only lifeline that they can count on in this 
historic economic crisis.

Mr. Speaker, while I am glad that this bill is finally close to the 
President's desk, I deeply regret the weeks of partisan politics by 
Republicans, especially those in the Senate, which have obstructed this 
legislation and delayed benefits to struggling families across the 
country. Since Republicans allowed benefits to begin expiring in May, 
over 250 million individuals nationwide and 429,000 in California have 
lost benefits that help them feed their families, pay their bills, and 
sleep with a roof over their heads.

Republicans claim to oppose these benefits because of their cost. 
But, let us not forget that Republicans never bothered to find offsets 
for the Bush tax cuts. They never felt the need to pay for the Iraq and 
Afghanistan wars. Only when unemployment benefits are on the table do 
Republicans suddenly discover an interest in fiscal responsibility. 
Republicans want to withhold relief from millions of Americans who, 
through no fault of their own, have lost their jobs in this economic 
crisis. But this vote offers a final opportunity to put partisan 
politics aside and work together for the American people.

Mr. Speaker, Congress has taken bold action to energize the economy 
during this historic economic crisis and lay the groundwork for long-
term, stable growth. To be sure, these actions are working: to date, 
the Recovery Act alone has saved or created over 682,000 jobs 
nationwide. However, rebuilding our economy takes time and, despite the 
success of Democrats' job-creating legislation, many individuals and 
families across the country still need our help. We cannot abandon the 
families that have been left jobless because of the previous 
Administration's economic mismanagement. This important measure will 
retroactively extend unemployment assistance to individuals whose 
benefits started to phase out in May and will guarantee that benefits 
are available through November.

Mr. Speaker, this should not be a partisan issue. This is an American 
issue. Millions of Americans need our help and this is our opportunity 
to provide it. Let us help the people all across the country who have 
been hit hard by this recession, people who, through no fault of their 
own, are struggling to stay in their homes and feed their kids.

Moreover, in addition to providing relief to those in need, this bill 
is an important step in our economic rebuilding process. Unemployment 
benefits create economic demand that stimulates the economy and puts 
people back to work. This is a fast-acting and cost-effective way to 
energize the economy: every $1 spent on unemployment benefits leads to 
$1.90 in economic activity. This bill responds to both our immediate 
obligation to help the American people in a time of great need and the 
long-term goal of consistent growth and prosperity.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is an obvious ''aye'' vote. The resistance it 
has seen in the past few weeks is shocking. I strongly urge my 
colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 4213.