---
---

# FEDERAL RAILROAD SAFETY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `039af3ad99f8b52710f43c55a4e6938b`
`Mr. WEBB — 30 September 2008`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I would like to add my voice to a number of 
other people who have spoken today about this economic bailout 
situation and, perhaps from a bit different perspective, suggest that 
people need to


calm down a little, that all of us are arguing responsibly with 
different approaches, but serious approaches, to try to resolve the 
issue.

There is a lot of commentary out there today alleging that people in 
the Congress, a lot of people in the Congress are simply playing 
politics with this volatile issue. There is commentary about how the 
average American does not understand the problem and, as a result, has 
objected to the approach that has been taken. There are accusations 
that the Congress is not doing its job because of the approach that was 
taken in the vote in the House yesterday.

I would suggest there are a lot of people who are not playing 
politics, who do understand the problem, who are doing their job, and 
yet, who still have grave concerns about the approach that has been 
taken with this proposed solution.

Let's take a minute and review what has been going on. Only 11 days 
ago, Secretary Paulson, on behalf of the Bush administration, came 
forward with a proposal, a three-page proposal, saying the Congress 
needed, within a couple days, to give him $700 billion or the authority 
to invest $700 billion, with very little supervision or oversight, in a 
very dramatic transfer of power to one individual.

Then we started having this great discussion in the media and on the 
floor about us not acting quickly. Let me, first, say I was one of the 
first Members of this body to speak on this floor on September 22, on 
that Monday, questioning publicly the approach that had been suggested 
in this Bush-Paulson proposal to address our crisis.

Also, last Friday, was joined by eight other Members of the Senate, 
urging that any bipartisan compromise addressing this crisis contain 
several important principles. I would say, with due respect to the 
Senator from New Hampshire and others, that there has been tremendous 
effort over this week to try to take a three-page proposal and make it 
into a piece of legislation we can all live with and that addresses the 
problems. They all have my appreciation and my admiration for that 
effort. But at the same time, we can do more. I hope, as they 
reconsider the vote yesterday, the drafters can take a hard look at 
some of these areas and tighten these provisions so some, myself 
included, can feel more comfortable in supporting it.

Firstly, we need to recognize that we have, in this legislation, 
taken into consideration the idea that we are going to transfer a 
massive amount of power to the executive branch of this Government. 
This, at a time when the executive branch, over the past 8 years, has 
accumulated more power, than perhaps at any time in our history, as a 
result of 9/11, the war powers, and regarding the privacy of 
individuals, et cetera.

We are not only transferring that power to the executive branch, we 
are giving the authority to one person, the Secretary of Treasury, who, 
as Senator Feinstein had pointed out, may have a conflict of interest. 
This is an individual who has made hundreds of millions of dollars 
working on Wall Street. I respect his confidence and I respect his 
career.

But at the same time, as a matter of policy, is this the best place 
or best way for us to transfer the money that would be invested in 
order to save our economy? In the past, when these situations have 
arisen, money has been transferred to entities such as the RTC. There 
were proposals brought forward, noting perhaps the necessity for a 
board of people, honest brokers, wise men and women who would make 
these determinations rather than simply one individual.

I know in this process we have left oversight to individual 
discretion, but perhaps we ought to think about a panel of three or 
some other form where we can reassure ourselves that there would not be 
a conflict of interest on the other side.

A number of us in this body and the other body have said, we need to 
proceed forward with an appropriate regulatory structure. There is 
language in the bill that was voted on yesterday that had a commitment 
to move forward, to looking at the problem but no specificity from the 
Congress saying we need to fix the problem, or that we need to 
reinstate regulations.

There was an article in the Wall Street Journal today written by 
Robert Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney. In this article he 
points out:




 There is $1.9 trillion, almost all of it run out of the New 


 York metropolitan area, that sits in the Cayman Islands, a 


 secrecy jurisdiction. Another $1.5 trillion is lodged in four 


 other secrecy jurisdictions.


And Morgenthau adds:




 Any significant infusion to the financial system must carry 


 assurances that it will not add to the pool of money beyond 


 the safety net and supervisory authority of the United 


 States. Moreover, the trillions of dollars currently offshore 


 and invested in funds that can impact the American economy 


 must be brought under appropriate supervision.


This is a point that has been made many times on the Senate floor by 
other Members, particularly Senator Dorgan of North Dakota. This is a 
moment in which we can have a commitment by the Congress that 
regulatory structures will be put in place in order to properly protect 
our economy.

Another area where you see the abandonment of regulatory structure, 
to the detriment of our economy, is in the commodities market. We had 
debates during the consideration of the Energy bill in August where 
many Senators came to the floor speaking relative to what happened when 
we took regulation out of the oil futures market. A barrel of oil cost 
$24 in 2002, when this Congress voted to go to war in Iraq. Since then 
the price has gone all the way up to $147. When you see the fluctuation 
in the oil markets that has attended this crisis, you see this is not 
an old-style commodities market, where people who are using the product 
are the ones who were purchasing the futures. This is now a speculative 
market. Just like a regular stock market, commodities should have a 
similar regulatory structure.

We need, and I have pointed out, along with other Members of this 
body, the need to provide clear caps on executive compensation. The 
bill that was voted on yesterday has significant improvements over the 
Paulson bill which was totally lacking in this area. It could be 
tightened further. I would recount a conversation I had with an 
individual who had a long respected career on Wall Street, is one of 
the most brilliant Wall Street analysts, and now retired. When I 
called--I was calling around to as many people from different 
professional environments as I could to try and understand this crisis.

This is someone who made good money on Wall Street and is very well 
respected. I asked him about the issue of executive compensation. His 
comment to me was, ''The people who perpetrated this situation ought to 
be punished.''

That was his word, ''punished.'' I do not believe specifically in 
punishing them, but I certainly believe strongly, as do most Americans, 
that the people who have gotten us into this situation should not be 
unjustly enriched as we fix it.

Finally, we need to give the American taxpayer a clear up side in 
this process, as the securities and assets are bought and sold by 
whichever entity ends up doing that. An ''up side'' in the sense of 
returning money back to the Treasury and, an up side in the sense that 
our legislation should do something that directly helps the people who 
are at the bottom in this crisis, the people who want to stay in their 
homes.


Again, there has been movement in that direction in the last week, 
but this area is where better assurances, clearer assurances could 
bring more people over to the side of passing this legislation. We want 
a solution. We all recognize there is a problem. My reaction, quite 
frankly, to the situation from yesterday, is that it brings me back to 
a saying from when I was in the Marine Corps that sometimes you have an 
opportunity that is masking itself as a disaster.

Perhaps we can tighten this proposal, get the right kind of formula--
it will not take a great deal of change--and bring the Congress to 
supporting provisions and move into the future with a strengthened 
economy, a better regulatory process, and an environment that truly 
takes care of the interests of the taxpayers who are going to have to 
foot the bill.



