---
---

# RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 11 AS A DAY OF REMEMBRANCE
## `03a11aaeb6b9602ff283a91924dc365d`
`Mr. SHULER — 11 September 2007`

---


Mr. SHULER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember one of our Nation's 
darkest days, and one of its finest hours.

None of us will ever forget the tragic events of September 11, 2001. 
Nor will we ever forget the images of firefighters, police officers, 
emergency medical technicians, and other first responders placing 
themselves in harm's way at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. We 
will never forget the passengers of United Flight 93, whose heroism may 
well have saved the United States Capitol. We will never forget the way 
this Nation joined in prayer and determination in the days which 
followed. And we will never forget the outpouring of support from our 
friends throughout the world.

In my home in western North Carolina, young men and women answered 
the challenge of a nation thrown suddenly into war, as new volunteers 
signed up for the Armed Forces, and reservists and Guardsmen readied 
for deployment. In the six years which followed, these brave citizens 
and their families have sacrificed through multiple deployments and 
hazardous service in Afghanistan, Iraq, and throughout the world. Since 
that time, many have been wounded, and six young men from my district 
have made the ultimate sacrifice. The thoughts and prayers of a 
grateful nation will always be with them and their families.

In the years since that tragic September day, our Nation has stepped 
up its vigilance at home and abroad. I am proud of the efforts of our 
local law enforcement officials to improve training and expertise in 
our communities to identify potential threats and prevent any future 
attacks. I would also like to recognize all of those who stand guard in 
our Nation's intelligence and Federal law enforcement communities, and 
all Americans serving abroad to reduce the conditions that breed 
terrorism and to increase hope in distant lands.

This Congress has taken the important steps of implementing the 
recommendations of the 9-11 Commission and enhancing homeland security 
efforts, however there is still work to be done. Our ports remain 
vulnerable, and our borders remain porous. Hurricane Katrina exposed 
serious problems with our Nation's disaster response mechanisms, and it 
is unclear how far we have come in fixing those problems. I am 
committed to working with my colleagues to address these problems and 
ensure the safety of all Americans.

So today we remember, as we look forward. I join with all my 
colleagues in today in honoring the memory of those who lost their 
lives on September 11th, remembering those who have sacrificed 
defending our Nation since that day, and praying for those who continue 
to serve our Nation today.
