---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION DEFICITS AND DEBT BACKGROUND
## `03b83f68b5e04381e434824cd670cd01`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Thank you, Mr. Ross.

I will try to sum up what we have done this evening. It is very 
important, as the American people have followed this process, have seen 
us with the legislative process at work, not only in terms of debating 
the issue, but they have also witnessed how we are putting this, 
hopefully, this final piece together that the President will sign.

First of all, just to wrap up, we have made concessions with the 
President on the issues that he was concerned about. The timelines, 
have, indeed, been removed. Those were his major objections on it. So 
we have compromised on that point.

But we also had, then, accountability, and that's what the American 
people want. They want to make sure that we have accountability in 
this. Mr. Thompson from California has played a very leading role in 
this, and it was so good to have him on the floor talking about it. Mr. 
Ike Skelton, who is the chairman of our Armed Services Committee, has 
incorporated all of the major points of financial accountability to get 
out fraud and waste, to bring in the Defense Department's investigators 
to report to us on each of these areas, on a 6-month basis, to show us 
how the money is being spent.

All of those things are now in this package, and the benchmarks are 
in, the benchmarks. So we can hold the Iraqi people to, and say, these 
are things that must be accomplished, as we go forward. If you don't 
hold their feet to the fire, if you don't put pressure there, there is 
no accountability. So we are going to have them on security.

We are going to have them where they are going to reach the deal of 
how, which is at the bottom of the whole situation, is oil, and how 
they are to divide the oil revenue between the Kurds, between the 
Sunnis and between the Shias. We have got this in there for benchmarks.

The other thing we have in there is funds for the troops, the Humvee 
protection, the body armor production. Never again will they go in 
Humvees and have to write back to mom and dad to give them the metals. 
They are over there fighting for the United States of America. It is 
our constitutional responsibility as the Congress of the United States 
to raise and support the military. That's in article 1, section 6 of 
the Constitution for our duty. This Congress is able to do that in 
this.

Finally, what is so important, we are having in this measure true 
emergency measures like the children's health program, in which we have 
$349 million now for that shortfall to help with the SCHIP program, for 
that lower-income program.

Many of those children, incidentally, Mr. Ross, are children of some 
of these servicemen who are serving in Iraq, because their income level 
falls too low for Medicaid, yet not high enough to be able to afford 
the regular practice. The money is in here for the veterans to make 
sure the Walter Reed situation doesn't happen again. That's what's so 
important. That's what the American people want.

In this measure we have got that, and then plus $2.4 billion more 
than what the President asks for the troops. But we have got the 
accountability in, and it's geared to moving us in a way to get us out 
of the crosshairs of this civil war and in this occupation in Iraq so 
that we can strengthen our military and put the resources in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan where we know al Qaeda is and allow the Iraqi 
people to manifest themselves and solve this civil war among 
themselves.

Thank you. It has been wonderful being with you and being a part of 
our Blue Dog coalition this evening.
