---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `03daa4b294d1ab19ddec7705759245a1`
`Mr. ROSS — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Ohio for joining us during this 
Special Order to discuss the President's budget, which has been 
delivered to Congress this week, as well as to talk about the War 
Accountability Act, House Resolution 97, to demand transparency, 
accountability and just good government, Mr. Speaker, in how we are 
spending the hardworking people of this country's tax money in Iraq.

There are a lot of misplaced priorities in this enormous budget. Here 
is the top ten list:

Number one, it includes tax increases for middle-class families.

Number two, it has cuts in it to health care and to seniors.

Number three, while it is very cold outside right now, while much of 
the country is frozen, if you will, Mr. Speaker, it cuts home energy 
assistance for those who need help the most with finding the money to 
afford to heat their home in the winter months.

After 5 years following 9/11, it has devastating cuts to police and 
firefighters.

In direct opposition to the wishes of the people of this country, 
here it comes again, it has a plan to privatize Social Security.

The President's budget includes cuts to veterans health care. At a 
time when we are creating a new generation of veterans coming home from 
Iraq and Afghanistan, the President's budget includes cuts to our 
veterans. We need to ensure that our veterans receive the health care 
they so desperately need.

I don't know about you, Mr. Speaker, but I get letter after letter 
and call after call from veterans who have to wait in line weeks and 
months at a time to be able to see a doctor. That is not the kind of 
health care we promised America's veterans. We should honor them by 
properly caring for them.

It includes cuts to education and cuts to housing assistance. And 
with Iraq veterans returning with devastating injuries, it includes 
cuts to the brain trauma research that is so desperately needed by many 
of these returning veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan.

President Bush's budget says a lot, but it does very little. It is 
filled with misplaced priorities. I will challenge you, Mr. Speaker, to 
read it for yourself, make your own decision.

As members of the Blue Dog Coalition, we are not here to beat up the 
President. He can't even run again. We are here to reach out across 
that aisle and work with him and work with the Republican Members of 
Congress, because the American people have sent a message very loud and 
clear, they want us to work together. That is what the fiscally 
conservative Democratic Blue


Dog Coalition is all about. We want to work in a bipartisan manner to 
put this Nation on a track toward a balanced budget, to pay down the 
debt, and to restore some fiscal discipline and common sense to our 
Nation's government.

Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Tennessee, Mr. Lincoln 
Davis.

(Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee asked and was given permission to 
revise and extend his remarks.)