# IKE SKELTON NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `03e77b3c22910667c83e1c865b9f1ee7`
`Mr. HOYER — 17 December 2010`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the distinguished chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee, one of the great leaders with whom I have had the 
opportunity to serve over these last three decades, a man of great 
character, extraordinary intellect, and unbridled commitment to the men 
and women who serve in our Armed Forces.

I think all of us who have had the opportunity of serving with Ike 
Skelton of Missouri have been impressed by his commitment, awed by his 
depth of knowledge, and encouraged for the security of our country by 
his leadership. So I rise to pay tribute. This bill is named in his 
honor. This will be the last bill that he will shepherd as chairman.

Two of the Members of the minority side have spoken and lamented the 
process that we are following today. I shared that lamentation. And I 
say to my friends, the reason we are in this pickle is because members 
of your party in the United States Senate would not allow us to proceed 
under regular order even though regular order had a majority of votes 
in the United States Senate. So it is nice to complain and wring our 
hands, but if obstructionism is the objective in the other body, then 
regular order has been denied us.

We have an option. We can say they denied us regular order and, 
therefore, we failed; or, we can do what we did last night--take 
something that's not perfect but is better than inaction.

Ike Skelton, Carl Levin, and John McCain worked very hard. And, as I 
understand it, the door was open to an invitation as well on your side.

I rise in strong support of this bill, not because I believe it is a 
perfect bill, but I believe it is a necessary bill. This defense 
authorization bill is about securing our Nation in stronger and smarter 
ways. It builds on our strong record of putting new and better weapons 
into the battlefield, increasing support for human intelligence 
collection, cybersecurity, and security for our skies and our ports and 
our borders, and looking out for our troops, our veterans, and, 
importantly, their families as well.

This bill authorizes crucial national security programs for fiscal 
year 2011; much better than a CR, short-term or long-term. It promotes 
efforts to disrupt and destroy terrorist networks and strengthens the 
ability of our Special Forces to act directly against terrorist 
organizations. It increases our international cooperation against 
terrorists, especially against the Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Because of the changing threats in the post-Cold War world, this 
bill, as well, invests in ballistic missile defense and nuclear 
counterproliferation, including the President's efforts to secure all 
of the world's known vulnerable nuclear material in the next 4 years.

The defense authorization bill also supports the well-being of our 
troops and the strength of our Armed Forces. It keeps TRICARE strong 
and ensures that military families can keep their children on TRICARE 
until they are 26.

It also reduces strain on our forces by providing 7,000 more 
personnel for the Army and 5,000 for the Air Force, while helping all 
of the services rebuild their worn-down equipment and weapons systems.

This bill is an important bill for us to pass. It will pass on a 
bipartisan basis, and I appreciate that, and I want to thank Mr. McKeon 
for his efforts to make sure that we pass it on a bipartisan basis. He 
recognizes, as I do, as Mr. Skelton recognizes, this is not the best 
process. We could have done and should have done better. Frankly, we 
did better.

Seven months ago, we passed a bill that has been referred to as the 
work product of a bipartisan effort to keep our country strong and to 
make sure that our men and women in uniform were well thought of, well 
cared for, well equipped, and we made them as safe as possible.



That was not to happen. Our responsibility is therefore to do the 
best we can. This appears to be the best we can.

I am not surprised that Ike Skelton never wavered for a minute in 
trying to make sure that we passed a bill that was worthy of the men 
and women who risk their lives and are ready to be deployed at a 
moment's notice to defend our freedom and our country.

Ike Skelton, we are proud to be your colleague. You have served your 
country well, you have served this institution well, and you have been 
as good a friend as our men and women in the Armed Forces have ever 
had. America is indeed blessed by God and by the service of men and 
women of the character, intellect and commitment of people like you.

Thank you, Ike Skelton.