# None
## `03ed4dfbdbde020df39a41c10af5435e`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA â€” 27 January 2010`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Madam Speaker, amid regional combat, conflicts, and 
challenges, Kazakhstan assumed leadership this month of the 
Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), an 
organization of 56 member states with vast potential for strengthening 
regional and global cooperation, security, peace, and prosperity.

This is a remarkable historic achievement for a nation that only 19 
years ago gained its independence from the former Soviet Union. It is 
also a recognition of the vision and leadership of Kazakh President 
Nursultan Nazarbayev who has charted a course to establish not only a 
modem state but an emerging democracy.

In the early days of its statehood and under the leadership of 
President Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan demonstrated to the international 
community its commitment to nuclear disarmament and nonproliferation. 
It voluntarily renounced the world's fourth largest nuclear and missile 
arsenal and shut down the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site. This 
decision has enhanced global security and reduced the threat of weapons 
of mass destruction falling into the hands of terrorists. Kazakhstan's 
experience qualifies it to lead the OSCE in its efforts to increase 
regional security.

Meanwhile, Kazakhstan has consistently demonstrated its commitment to 
the principles and values that OSCE member states embrace. The nation 
has achieved significant progress on democratization, human rights, and 
economic liberalization. This is no small feat for a country in which 
more than 140 different nationalities and 40 religions are represented. 
Yet surprisingly in Kazakhstan, these people and faiths coexist 
peaceably because of a commitment to the shared values of tolerance, 
understanding, cooperation, and unity.

Great steps have been made on the path of democracy, but many more 
strides must be taken before the goal is reached. That is why 
Kazakhstan views democracy not as a sprint but a marathon; its 
perspective is not for the short but the long term.

Because Kazakhstan understands the challenges of democracy-building 
and the importance of inter-ethnic and inter-faith dialogue to avoid or 
resolve conflict, this perspective and experience will serve it well in 
its OSCE leadership role.

Kazakhstan is a leading democratic force in Central Asia today, a 
region of growing strategic importance to the United States, the OSCE, 
and the world. Central Asia is where East and West meet. Increasingly, 
it is where much of our focus will and must be now and in the years 
ahead. As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs subcommittee overseeing 
this region, I can state this unequivocally. It is also the reason my 
colleague Representative Buck McKeon and I recently established the 
Congressional Caucus on Central Asia.

Kazakhstan moves and interacts with ease and confidence in its home 
region and the surrounding areas that include Afghanistan, Iraq, 
Pakistan, and Iran--all areas where it has interests that make dialogue 
and cooperation possible but not involvement that precludes it. Because 
of this, Kazakhstan can function as an honest and trusted broker, 
helping the United States and other OSCE members. This can lead to 
improved East-West dialogue and, hopefully, to conflict resolution.

For all the strengths, experiences, and perspectives that Kazakhstan 
offers, OSCE member states' choice of this new democracy to lead the 
organization showed correct judgment and foresight in light of the 
challenges and threats confronting the world. President Nazarbayev has 
matched the OSCE's judgment and foresight in appointing Secretary of 
State-Foreign Minister Kanat Saudabayev to serve as the OSCE Chairman-
in-Office. This skilled and seasoned diplomat, who once served as 
Kazakhstan's Ambassador to the United States, will bring to his new 
post and the OSCE the needed leadership and focus on measurable 
results.

His recent speech in Vienna outlining Kazakhstan's priorities during 
its OSCE chairmanship reveals a commitment to revitalize the 
organization, reestablish its relevance on key issues, and refocus it 
to achieve meaningful outcomes. I am encouraged by the vision he 
sketched. In a world where new crises often seemingly intractable, even 
insoluble--emerge almost daily, we need an OSCE infused with purpose 
and energy and committed to full engagement and results. Knowing the 
OSCE Chairman-in-Office as I do, I am confident that he can and will 
lead the organization to achieve the outcomes that all OSCE member 
states desire.

As a major step toward that end, I fully support the proposal that 
President Nazarbayev and OSCE Chairman-in-Office Saudabayev have put 
forward--namely, that of holding an OSCE summit. Not since 1999 has a 
summit been held. In my view, such an assembly would offer many 
advantages and opportunities to the United States and other OSCE member 
states for advancing the prospects and priorities of regional and 
global cooperation, security, peace, and prosperity.

The proposed summit warrants the United States' support and is worthy 
of our best efforts because it is in our national interest. For this 
reason, I call on President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton to 
help facilitate the summit through their good offices, and I look 
forward to working with Chairman-in-Office Saudabayev and the leaders 
of OSCE member states in any way I can to help execute the forward-
looking vision that Kazakhstan has outlined for the Organization for 
Security and Co-operation in Europe.
