# None
## `040197f576ac7d4c368a30959cd28309`
`Ms. FOXX — 14 July 2010`

---


Ms. FOXX. Reclaiming my time, I thank my colleague for pointing out 
the very important issue of the percentage of debt to the GDP because 
it is an important issue and our friends across the aisle have created 
much of that problem along with our President. They have been in charge 
since January 2007, and that's where the problem comes from.







 [From the Wall Street Journal, July 13, 2010]









 The Bush Tax Cuts and the Deficit Myth















(By Brian Riedl)




 President Obama and congressional Democrats are blaming 


 their trillion-dollar budget deficits on the Bush tax cuts of 


 2001 and 2003. Letting these tax cuts expire is their answer.




 Yet the data flatly contradict this ''tax cuts caused the 


 deficits'' narrative. Consider the three most persistent 


 myths:



 The Bush tax cuts wiped out last decade's budget surpluses. 


 Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass), for example, has long blamed the 


 tax cuts for having ''taken a $5.6 trillion surplus and 


 turned it into deficits as far as the eye can see.'' That 


 $5.6 trillion surplus never existed. It was a projection by 


 the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) in January 2001 to 


 cover the next decade. It assumed that late-1990s economic 


 growth and the stockmarket bubble (which had already peaked) 


 would continue forever and generate record-high tax revenues. 


 It assumed no recessions, no terrorist attacks, no wars, no 


 natural disasters, and that all discretionary spending would 


 fall to 1930s levels.



 The projected $5.6 trillion surplus between 2002 and 2011 


 will more likely be a $6.1 trillion deficit through September 


 2011. So what was the cause of this dizzying, $11.7 trillion 


 swing? I've analyzed CBO's 28 subsequent budget baseline 


 updates since January 2001. These updates reveal that the 


 much-maligned Bush tax cuts, at $1.7 trillion, caused just 


 14% of the swing from projected surpluses to actual deficits 


 (and that is according to a ''static'' analysis, excluding 


 any revenues recovered from faster economic growth induced by 


 the cuts).



 The bulk of the swing resulted from economic and technical 


 revisions (33%), other new spending (32%), net interest on 


 the debt (12%), the 2009 stimulus (6%) and other tax cuts 


 (3%). Specifically, the tax cuts for those earning more than 


 $250,000 are responsible for just 4% of the swing. If there 


 were no Bush tax cuts, runaway spending and economic factors 


 would have guaranteed more than $4 trillion in deficits over 


 the decade and kept the budget in deficit every year except 


 2007.



 The next decade's deficits are the result of the previous 


 administration's profligacy. Mr. Obama asserted in his 


 January State of the Union Address that by the time he took 


 office, ''we had a one-year deficit of over $1 trillion and 


 projected deficits of $8 trillion over the next decade. Most 


 of this was the result of not paying for two wars, two tax 


 cuts, and an expensive prescription drug program.''



 In short, it's all President Bush's fault. But Mr. Obama's 


 assertion fails on three grounds.



 First, the wars, tax cuts and the prescription drug program 


 were implemented in the early 2000s, yet by 2007 the deficit 


 stood at only $161 billion. How could these stable policies 


 have suddenly caused trillion-dollar deficits beginning in 


 2009? (Obviously what happened was collapsing revenues from 


 the recession along with stimulus spending.)



 Second, the president's $8 trillion figure minimizes the 


 problem. Recent CBO data indicate a 10-year baseline deficit 


 closer to $13 trillion if Washington maintains today's tax-


 and-spend policies--whereby discretionary spending grows with 


 the economy, war spending winds down, ObamaCare is 


 implemented, and Congress extends all the Bush tax cuts, the 


 Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) patch, and the Medicare ''doc 


 fix'' (i.e., no reimbursement cuts).



 Under this realistic baseline, the 10-year cost of 


 extending the Bush tax cuts ($3.2 trillion), the Medicare 


 drug entitlement ($1 trillion), and Iraq and Afghanistan 


 spending ($515 billion) add up to $4.7 trillion. That's 


 approximately one-third of the $13 trillion in baseline 


 deficits--far from the majority the president claims.



 Third and most importantly, the White House methodology is 


 arbitrary. With Washington set to tax $33 trillion and spend 


 $46 trillion over the next decade, how does one determine 


 which policies ''caused'' the $13 trillion deficit? Mr. Obama 


 could have just as easily singled out Social Security ($9.2 


 trillion over 10 years), antipoverty programs ($7 trillion), 


 other Medicare spending ($5.4 trillion), net interest on the 


 debt ($6.1 trillion), or nondefense discretionary spending 


 ($7.5 trillion).



 There's no legitimate reason to single out the $4.7 


 trillion in tax cuts, war funding and the Medicare drug 


 entitlement. A better methodology would focus on which 


 programs are expanding and pushing the next decade's deficit 


 up.



 Declining revenues are driving future deficits. The fact is 


 that rapidly increasing spending will cause 100% of rising 


 long-term deficits. Over the past 50 years, tax revenues have 


 deviated little from their 18% of gross domestic product 


 (GDP) average. Despite a temporary recession-induced dip, CBO 


 projects that even if all Bush tax cuts are extended and the 


 AMT is patched, tax revenues will rebound to 18.2% of GDP by 


 2020--slightly above the historical average. They will 


 continue growing afterwards.



 Spending--which has averaged 20.3% of GDP over the past 50 


 years--won't remain as stable. Using the budget baseline 


 deficit of $13 trillion for the next decade as described 


 above, CBO figures show spending surging to a peacetime 


 record 26.5% of GDP by 2020 and also rising steeply 


 thereafter.



 Putting this together, the budget deficit, historically 


 2.3% of GDP, is projected to leap to 8.3% of GDP by 2020 


 under current policies. This will result from Washington 


 taxing at 0.2% of GDP above the historical average but 


 spending 6.2% above its historical average.



 Entitlements and other obligations are driving the 


 deficits. Specifically, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid 


 and net interest costs are projected to rise by 5.4% of GDP 


 between 2008 and 2020. The Bush tax cuts are a convenient 


 scapegoat for past and future budget woes. But it is the 


 dramatic upward arc of federal spending that is the root of 


 the problem.


With that, Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.