# RECOGNIZING THE 65TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE BATTLE OF IWO JIMA
## `0404acc795b86652bb7946adad753e96`
`Mr. BUYER — 20 March 2010`

---


Mr. BUYER. I would like to thank both parties for recognizing the 
uncommon virtue and valor. It didn't occur just at Iwo Jima. It 
occurred in many battlefields and lonely places all over the world. 
These are military values and virtues which are passed from one 
generation to the next. They are memorialized, and we've done that here 
in the Nation's Capital in Arlington by that extraordinary photo that 
was then transformed into that statue.

The art of man is able to construct monuments and awards that are far


more significant than the narrow span of our own existence. It's the 
silent lapse of time that displays how frail and how fallible we are as 
a people. So it truly is what we do with the time that we have that 
matters most. So those of us with whom we've had the privilege to wear 
the uniform and fight our Nation's wars and to serve on foreign soil, I 
can tell you having done that, that it is an extraordinary feeling.

Now for the men and women, the nurses and the men who were in the 
dark sands of Iwo Jima, what an extraordinary campaign, and we have 
done everything we can to fulfill their ideal. At times, we fall short. 
We fall short as a people when we don't fulfill the ideal of their 
sacrifice; that is, the preservation of freedom and the preservation of 
individual liberty. And we have to be careful here in the institution 
of Congress if we don't respect each other with regard to our opinions, 
with regard to the process, because liberty also in the democratic 
process is pretty important.


So we have this debate on the health bill. We shouldn't try to 
scheme. We should be open. This should be the most open and 
deliberative body in the world so that Lady Liberty that sits on top of 
the dome can truly shine as that beacon of liberty so that the 
sacrifices of those marines and the sailors and others at Iwo Jima can 
live forever. The men and women who wear the uniform, they fight for no 
bounty of their own, and they leave freedom in their footsteps. They 
are truly extraordinary people. They also go to a land where they've 
never been, and they fight for a people that they've never met because 
they fight for extraordinary ideals. So those sacrifices that occurred 
on Iwo Jima have been passed on to other generations, those of whom 
fought in Korea or in Vietnam, in the sands of the first gulf war or 
even the second gulf war and Afghanistan.

So those of us who inherit the freedoms and those ideals, we are 
merely trustees for life, and our duty is to concentrate our lives to 
the greater good, beset by recurrent hopes for a more peaceful and 
prosperous Union. To do otherwise would be selfish as a people, and it 
would be wrong to turn to the next generation and say that we did not 
improve upon it, and we would then not be able to uphold the men, like 
at Iwo Jima, who did so much for so many.