---
---

# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `04061d0b2ca43fad523c671aedd65232`
`Mr. REED — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. REED. Madam President, this legislation clearly calls for a 
report to be submitted by the President of the United States to 
establish a timetable, and I think the suggestion that will not have 
incredible consequences in the real world is somewhat naive.

If the President of the United States is forced to give Congress a 
timetable stating dates, even if those dates have some variables 
attached to them, that sets in motion a train of events that is 
anything but a simple statement of vision. That statement of vision was 
given by the President at West Point. In fact, he was criticized for 
specifically indicating that there would be a point at which American 
forces begin the withdrawal, but he did that. I think anyone 
questioning the President's not only willingness to do this, but 
understanding the need to redeploy our forces, should look at today's 
headlines in the Washington Post where the Vice President has, once 
again, reiterated that we are coming out of Iraq; that the timetables 
the President talked about, the vision he talked about, all of those 
things he is following through on, and he will do the same thing in 
Afghanistan.

In Afghanistan, the President's strategy is clear: to provide 
military resources to reseize the momentum; to provide the opportunity 
to build civilian capacity; and starting, as the Senator from Wisconsin 
indicated, at a fixed date will begin a drawdown and will begin 
changing our mission from combat operations to more counterterrorism 
operations, more training of Afghani forces.

Frankly, what I think the President--and I will presume to speak at 
this moment, at last in my view--sees in the future is a significant 
drawdown of our military presence while we build up our civilian 
presence. That civilian presence might include some trainers, police 
trainers. It might include a lot of folks. Indeed, this vision is tied 
directly to the concern we all have. There are active al-Qaida cells in 
Pakistan, in Afghanistan, in Yemen, and one of the advantages of a 
presence in Afghanistan is effectively cooperating with and encouraging 
the Pakistanis.

I urge rejection of the amendment.