---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `040ab66982b9ea88891a444541121a97`
`Mr. REID — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, Senator Kennedy has 2/1/2/ minutes, but he 
is not here, so I will proceed to wrap up the debate.

My friend, the Republican leader, said nothing has changed since the 
last vote. That is the whole problem, nothing has changed. Nothing has 
changed in over 4 years of this bloody war in Iraq. One course. That 
course has been followed from the very beginning and has never changed.

The choice tonight is very clear. It is as clear as it is important. 
It is a choice between staying the course in Iraq and changing the 
course in that faraway land. With their votes, Senators tonight can 
send a message to the President that it is time to come with us, to 
help find a new way and end this intractable civil war or Senators can 
allow this course to continue, allow President Bush to commit more U.S. 
troops in this open-ended Iraqi civil war.

After more than 4 years, the related deaths of 3,250 of our brave 
soldiers, and the wounded tens of thousands of these men and women, it 
is time we should change. This war is not worth the spilling of another 
drop of American blood. As it stands, this emergency legislation before 
this body tonight will send a signal to our President that it is time 
for a new direction, it is time to set benchmarks, it is time to send a 
signal to the Iraqi Government that they must take responsibility for 
their own people, and it is time to start redeploying our troops and 
recommitting ourselves to fighting al-Qaida and other terrorists around 
the world.

If this amendment passes, sending a message to the President to 
change course, that is the right way to go. If, however, Senators 
decide to allow the President to continue along the line he has 
outlined for more than 4 years, that would be a shame. That is what 
this amendment is all about, whether this carefully crafted legislation 
will be stripped from this bill. It would then turn out to be, instead 
of a bill that demands the President change his policy, that we will 
have a bill that gives the President a blank check and a green light to 
continue the failed course we have had in Iraq.

Without this language in the supplemental, the President would be 
free to keep U.S. troops in Iraq indefinitely, serving an impossible 
mission of policing an acknowledged civil war. Staying the course in 
Iraq will not lead to success. There are no military solutions. My 
friend, the Republican leader, said ''some say.'' ''Some say.'' Well, 
one person who says the war can't be won militarily is the man we have 
commanding the troops over there, General Petraeus. He said 20 percent 
of the war is military, the rest is political and diplomatic and 
economic. That is the way it is.

The bill, without this amendment, offers a responsible strategy in 
Iraq, which the American people asked for last November, a strategy 
that will maximize our chances to succeed in Iraq and enhance our 
ability to defeat al-Qaida. General after general after general has 
said that is the right strategy. A group of patriotic Americans devoted 
a year of their lives to giving the American people and this Congress 
and the President the advice of their collective wisdom--and it was 
wisdom--former Secretaries of Defense, Secretaries of State, college 
professors, former Members of Congress. They came to the conclusion 
that we have in this amendment. It is in this bill. The Iraq Study 
Group agrees with what we have in this legislation.


It is time for the Senate to put a stamp of approval on people such 
as Secretary Jim Baker. He is a man who is a card-carrying Republican. 
He served as Secretary of State, Chief of Staff for the President of 
the United States, and he has held other Cabinet positions. He is an 
example of what that Iraq Study Group was all about. They did it 
because it was the right thing to do. The reason we are having even 
minimal contact right now with Iranians is because of Secretary Baker. 
Secretary Baker said you do not only negotiate with your friends, you 
have to negotiate with your enemies.

I have come to know very well a person who is part of my security 
detail. He has traveled with me all over the country--has been to my 
home in Searchlight. He is now headed for his third tour of duty in 
Iraq. He has two little children. He is headed for Iraq. He leaves in 
less than a month. I admire James for his courage and his patriotism, 
but he should not be going back for a third go-around. He is a National 
Guardsman.

I understand how some of my colleagues feel. In this Chamber is Joe 
Lieberman. There is not a Senator for whom I have more respect than Joe 
Lieberman. I know how passionately he feels on this issue.

John Warner, seated across from me, is one of my friends. I can say 
that without any reservation or hesitation. We have served together for 
many years. I was his subcommittee chairman in the Environment and 
Public Works Committee. I know how he feels about this issue, how torn 
he is as to what is the right thing to do, what is not the right thing 
to do. I acknowledge the feelings of John Warner and Joe Lieberman, but 
that does not take away from the way I feel about this issue.

I have said on this floor before and I will say it again, the 
sparsely populated State of Nevada has lost 39 soldiers in Iraq. The 
last one, I called his mother less than 2 weeks ago. Raul Bravo is 
dead. He was 21 years old--a marine on his second tour of duty in Iraq. 
His mother expressed to me what a tremendous loss this was. He was the 
only man in her family, she said--she and her three daughters. I admire 
Raul Bravo for going to Iraq twice. He did what he had to do. But we 
have had too many Raul Bravos dying over there, unnecessarily, in the 
middle of a civil war.

I listened to my radio yesterday morning, as I do every morning. 
Yesterday morning: five dead soldiers the day before.

I say sincerely that we should not spill any more blood there. We 
should start redeploying these troops, have them work in 
counterterrorism, force protection, training the Iraqis.

Every one of my colleagues should understand that the Prime Minister 
of Iraq told the President of the United States to his face the last 
time they met: Get the American troops out of Baghdad. That is what he 
told him. This was before the surge that the President came up with. 
The leader of the country of Iraq told the President of the United 
States: Get the American troops out of here.

The Iraqi people don't want us there. All the polls show 
overwhelmingly the people, Iraqi people, don't want us there. The 
majority of the people think it is OK to kill and injure Americans. Is 
that what we want to be involved in? I think not.

A lot of people worked very hard on the provision that is subject to 
being stricken from this bill. This is a good piece of legislation that 
is in this bill. It is the right thing to do. It is good for America. 
It is good for our world. And it is good for President Bush.

I yield back Senator Kennedy's time.