# TRIBUTE TO U.S. ARMY CAPTAIN JAMES A. MORIN
## `040cc91fc956666918d2a3f627f0ffc1`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 23 April 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize Change 
of Command of the Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 1st Battalion, 
3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment, and the achievements of its outgoing 
Commander, Captain James A. Morin.

In a ceremony tomorrow at Ft. Myer, Virginia, Captain Morin will pass 
the company's guidon to its new Commander, Captain Michael J. Shouse.

The 3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment is affectionately known as The Old 
Guard. It was created in 1784, and it is the Army's oldest active 
infantry regiment. It is also the lead Army unit for all ceremonial 
activities in and around the Nation's capital, and in many respects its 
members exemplify the best traditions of both the United States Army 
and of our Nation.

Captain Morin was a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West 
Point and served with distinction in both Operation Enduring Freedom 
and Operation Iraqi Freedom, where he earned several important awards 
and distinctions for his service. He joined the 3rd U.S. Infantry 
Regiment in 2004, and he has commanded the Headquarters and 
Headquarters Company since February, 2006.



Captain Morin has said that, even as a young boy, he wanted to be a 
leader of men. He has certainly achieved that goal, with honor and 
distinction. We are fortunate to have men of his caliber serving our 
Nation.

Madam Speaker, I know I speak for all my colleagues in congratulating 
Captain Michael J. Shouse on his new command, and in thanking Captain 
James A. Morin for a job well done.
