---
---

# None
## `040d5bc7d52ff6723fdf2be0525d46b8`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. We're still struggling. There are a lot of 
emotional issues that Cleveland Indians fans have had for a long time. 
And then you factor in the Cleveland Browns and the drive and the 
fumble and Michael Jordan singlehandedly beating us a couple of times 
in the playoffs and you add this to the mix, we have some psychological 
issues we need to deal with, Mr. Speaker, and hopefully we will be able 
to work through them.

But today is the day that we are talking about the excess in spending 
on the war. We hear a lot back in our districts, I'm sure you do in the 
Seventeenth District in Miami, and I hear in the Seventeenth District 
of Ohio, we hear about the rising cost of health care. We hear about 
the rising cost of education. We hear the problems that we have 
incurred in this country because we haven't invested into developing 
alternative energy sources in the United States of America, and we 
haven't developed them fast enough.

We have all these issues that local communities deal with, Community 
Development Block Grant money that they get from the Federal Government 
that local communities can build sidewalks and roads and sewer lines 
and they can use all this money. That is Federal money that works its 
way down to local communities. And when we look at the needs of local 
communities, every single day in the paper in Ohio, it is water lines, 
it is sewer lines. In the summer it is what sports do we have to ask 
the kids and the parents to pay for this year? Why are we cutting the 
art programs? Why don't we have enough money to handle the septic and 
the sewer systems in our local community? For years, the Federal 
Government continued to make those investments. And what we hear now 
coming out of the executive branch, Mr. Meek, is that we don't have the 
money to do it.

Now, we are talking about providing health care for 10 million kids, 
poor kids, who live within 200 percent of poverty, a family of four 
making maybe $40,000 a year. What we are arguing on our side is that we 
think it is in the best interests of this country, all of us together, 
not one family or this family, all of us, is that if we provide and pay 
for health care for these 10 million kids and their families, because 
we believe on this side and our friends on the other side who voted 
with us, not the President, we believe that if we make this very small 
investment of $35 billion over 5 years, that we are going to have a 
healthier country, that we are going to have kids who aren't sitting in 
the classroom getting other children sick, that they are going to be 
able to concentrate and focus.

We sit here and we say, ''We need more people to major in math. We 
need more people to major in science. We need to compete with the 
Chinese. They graduated thousands and thousands of more engineers than 
we did in the United States of America.'' Part of that is we need our 
kids to be healthy. We need them to be able to concentrate in school, 
not sneezing and getting colds and pneumonia and not missing classes. 
We need them to be healthy. And that is the basic concept behind the 
State Children's Health Insurance Program.

To have the President, after he began a war that is going to cost us 
$2.4 trillion, with a T, tell us that we don't have enough money to 
provide health care for these 10 million kids is a complete outrage and 
doesn't really make any sense. Now, I think it is important, Mr. 
Speaker, for the Congress to know and to be reminded that over the past 
6 years, with a Republican President, a Republican House and a 
Republican Senate, that this President and that Congress, those 
Congresses have borrowed more money from foreign interests than every 
President and Congress before them combined. Over $1 trillion in 
foreign money. Now, the same Congress and the same President asked to 
raise the debt limit, meaning we can go out and borrow, as a country, 
more money, five times he asked to raise the debt limit. Then, on top 
of that, the final number is the increase of the debt under this 
President is $3 trillion. So he raised the debt by $3 trillion, raised 
the debt limit five times. Now we have a war that is going to cost us 
$2.4 trillion, with a T, and he says, ''We don't have enough money, Mr. 
Speaker, to provide health care for 10 million kids at $35 billion, 
with a B, over 5 years.''

For 40 days in Iraq, we could pay for 10 million kids to get health 
care for a whole year. Forty days in Iraq. And what is the investment 
going to get us? It is going to get us healthier kids. It is going to 
get us kids who can concentrate and pay attention in school. It is 
going to save us money in the long run because we are not going to cart 
these kids off to the emergency room 2 weeks later with pneumonia when 
we could have taken care of them with maybe a small prescription. Those 
are the kind of prudent investments that we want to make in this 
country. Those are the kind of investments that we should be making in 
this country.

We talk a lot in this country about what are we going to do in the 
next century? We lost manufacturing, and we are not sure what the new 
economy is going to look like. But there are some things we know about, 
Mr. Speaker. We know that our kids in Niles, Ohio, or Youngstown, Ohio, 
or, Miami, Florida or wherever you are from, are competing more 
directly with the students in China. We know that our kids are now 
competing. The old steel belt and the old rust belt in Ohio is 
Cleveland and Youngstown and Akron and Pittsburgh. For the longest 
time, those cities used to compete with each other and those businesses 
used to compete with each other. Now this whole region is competing 
with Shanghai. And our kids are competing more directly with those kids 
in China, India and all over the world, 1.3 billion people in China, 
1.2 billion people in India. We only have 300 million people in the 
United States of America. We are at a real disadvantage when it comes 
to just mass numbers. And democracy is not always easy, either. If you 
want to open up a factory in China or you just clear a neighborhood 
out, you give everybody 25 bucks, they give you a week to get out. 
There are no environmental laws. There are no worker rights. It just 
happens. The government comes in and moves everything along. Democracy 
is sometimes a little more difficult, in a good way. We have rights; 
property rights, human rights and all kinds of different things that 
citizens in China don't have.

But my point here is this, we only have 300 million people. So if you 
look at what the Democratic agenda, the 6 in '06 and what my friend 
from Florida has been stating, what we have been trying to do is very, 
very simple. We're trying to invest into those 300 million people so 
that they're healthier, so that they're more educated, so that they are 
able to live the American dream. Now, no one here is saying that 
everyone needs to be a winner. We understand that life is life. There 
are winners and there are losers. But as a


country, we want to make these investments because we all benefit from 
it. We all benefit from that.



The investments we are making now, just look at our agenda now. One 
of the first things we did, we raised the minimum wage for the first 
time since 1997 so that we are lifting people up. One of the second 
things we did is we reduced the cost of college education, or tried to. 
We cut student loan interest rates in half. So when you go out and 
borrow for your kids to go to school or a student borrows next year to 
go to school, the interest rate will be 3.4 percent, as opposed to last 
year when it was 6.8 percent and that money was going to the banks. 
They were making a heck of a lot of money off of it.

Mr. Speaker, we are saying keep those rates low; let's improve access 
so that everyone can go to a community college and get a skill or they 
can go off to college and get an associate's degree or a master's 
degree or Ph.D. so that they are educated to compete. What we also did 
was increased the Pell Grant by $1,000 over the course of the next 5 
years. Is that as much as we want? No. Absolutely not. We are not even 
close. But we are moving in that direction. It's tough, when you have a 
war that is costing you $2.4 trillion, to come up with any money to 
make these kinds of investments. But that is what we wanted to do, and 
we have changed the direction in regard to college education.

Now, if you're a kid going to school in Ohio, where we had the new 
Governor come in and he froze college tuition for 2 years so there will 
be a zero increase next year and a zero percent increase the following 
year, if you add that to what we have done with the student loans and 
the Pell Grants, you're talking about saving average families thousands 
and thousands and thousands of dollars. An average student loan, 
because of the interest change we made, an average family will save 
$4,400 over the course of the loan.

Now, we are not coming out here beating a drum, saying we have got to 
cut taxes, we have got to cut taxes for millionaires. We are saying if 
you send your kid to school and you take out a loan, we just saved you 
$4,400. If you have someone in your family, or one of your students, 
kids that are going to school that are working for minimum wage, they 
got a pay increase. If you're utilizing the Pell Grant, you're going to 
get more of that. These are good, solid investments we've made. In 
addition to this, we have the State Children's Health Insurance 
Program. So these kids have opportunity.

Now one of the other things that really isn't on the agenda to talk 
about, but the Senate just passed it last night, we are trying to pass 
it again through the conference committee and hopefully get the 
President to sign it, but the President said he was going to veto it, 
is the Health and Education bill, where we are making investments to 
build community health clinics so that people who don't have health 
insurance now can at least go to a health care clinic and get some 
preventive care.

Mr. Speaker, I just found it stunning, and I think a lot of other 
citizens of this country did as well, and I know many Members of 
Congress have found it stunning too, when we were having this big 
debate about children's health and the President said, Well, they have 
health insurance. They can go to the emergency room.

I found that absolutely stunning that the President of the United 
States, in 2007, his solution or lack of solution is to say that these 
kids could just go to the emergency room. Now, I am sorry, but that is 
unacceptable. Not only is it bad economics, it is unacceptable from a 
moral position.

It has been frustrating, but I want the American people, Mr. Speaker, 
to understand what we have done through the House is passed 
legislation. And my friend with the great reform of the Small Business 
Administration, our friend from Pennsylvania, creating an angel 
investor fund and basically retooling the SBA for the 21st century in a 
high-tech economy, the things that we have done have been investments 
into our country and into our people.

Now, I'm sorry. Giving $100,000 tax break to someone who makes 
millions of dollars a year is not benefiting anybody because they are 
not even taking that money and investing it back into our country. They 
are investing it probably in China and India. What we are saying is we 
are going to make these investments.