# HONORING THE SERVICE AND SACRIFICE OF UNITED STATES ARMY SPECIALIST  CHRISTOPHER J. MOON
## `0412f154546160b43faaa3d0551a5529`
`Ms. GIFFORDS — 20 July 2010`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor United States Army 
Specialist Christopher J. Moon, who passed away on July 13, 2010 from 
wounds sustained during an IED attack in Afghanistan.

Originally from Tucson, Chris was a natural athlete and stand-out 
baseball player. While attending Tucson High Magnet School, he received 
many accolades including 2006 Southern Arizona Player of the Year and a 
scholarship to the University of Arizona.

Known for his outstanding personality and attitude, Chris was always 
willing to help out anyone who needed it.

''Specialist Moon was the type of person we have all heard of but 
have very seldom ever met,'' said First Sergeant Derek Gondek, Moon's 
company First Sergeant. ''He was one of those men who, no matter what 
he put his mind to he became a star at it, whether it was on the 
baseball field or on the battlefield. He will truly be missed by his 
fellow warfighters.''

Assigned to Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 2nd Battalion, 
508th Parachute Infantry Regiment, part of the Army's 82nd Airborne 
Division based at Fort Bragg, Chris was on a combat mission in the 
Arghandab Valley when he triggered an IED device, wounding him 
severely. Chris succumbed to his injuries at Landstuhl Regional Medical 
Center in Germany on July 13, 2010.

We remember Chris and offer our deepest condolences and sincerest 
prayers to his family. My words cannot effectively convey the feeling 
of great loss nor can they offer adequate consolation. However, it is 
my hope that in future days, his family may take some comfort in 
knowing that Chris made a difference in the lives of many others and 
serves as an example of a competent and caring leader and friend that 
will live on in the hearts and minds of all those he touched.

Specialist Chris Moon leaves behind his mother Marsha, his father, 
Brian, and his sister Sunday.

This body and this country owe Chris and his family our deepest 
gratitude, and we will today and forevermore honor and remember him and 
his service to our country.
