---
---

# NEW IRAQ STRATEGY
## `0415bc0a763fa1524decebe143e99a57`
`Mr. WARNER — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Fine. I thank the Presiding Officer, and I wish to 
commend the Presiding Officer for his work, as, indeed, my good friend, 
Senator Alexander, and this colleague.

I must state, with a sense of total modesty, that my contribution 
tonight would be just to express some concerns. I have followed the 
work of your group. Very kindly, the principals on this have invited me 
to join, but I have thus far not done so because I can't find yet the 
answers to some critical issues I have in mind.

First, I say to my colleagues that I had a little to do with starting 
the group now known as Baker-Hamilton, or the Iraq Study Group. I think 
I worked with my colleague who did the major part of the work, 
Congressman Frank Wolf, and then we engaged a local, highly recognized, 
and well-qualified group in Washington associated with studies to take 
on some of the infrastructure. It was a remarkable recruiting of 
talent, which my colleague recited, and I think they did a very 
credible and fine job.

It was a major contribution at a time in the fall of 2006 when there 
was a great deal of concern among many of us about the situation in 
Iraq. I had returned in that fall from a trip to Iraq and expressed 
publicly my thoughts that the country was just drifting aimlessly 
sideways, and that remark, together with remarks of others of a similar 
nature, sparked the intensity of the administration's undertaking 
their, I think, very thorough review leading up to the President's 
remarks when he announced a change in strategy on January 10, 2007.

Now, I have referred to the Iraq Study Group work. I think there were 
7, 8, 9 months that they studied, with hearings and so forth. But when 
they put pen to paper and wrote it, it was a snapshot of the situation 
that faced this Nation and, indeed, our partners, the coalition forces, 
in Iraq. They made certain assumptions at that time which led to the 
strategy they outlined.

Among those assumptions was that we had reason to believe the Iraqi 
Government, freely elected, in place, was going to become a truly 
representative unity government of all factions. They committed a 
certain number of benchmarks, and it was thought at that time that 
those benchmarks could be met. That, I think is fair to say, was an 
assumption they had.

Our country, together with our coalition partners, had been in 
training with the Iraqi forces for some 2 years plus at that time, 
building up their own internal army, national guard, and police force. 
So the Iraq Study Group, in my judgment, took a snapshot of the 
situation in the fall of 2006, put it to paper, and it was in the 
President's framework of things that were considered when he derived 
his policy and enunciated it in January.

I, together with, I think, the colleagues on the Senate floor 
tonight, said to the President, after his announcement on January 10, 
that I was concerned that more of the Iraq Study Group concept was not 
infused into his new strategy. I remember specifically addressing the 
issue of the sectarian violence, now described by some as a civil war 
of some stage, and injecting the American GI, who really had no 
background in the complicated culture of the Muslim religion and the 
Muslim people, into that situation.

And I am not in any way denigrating that religion or that culture. 
Indeed, it is one of the oldest and, I think, most respected on Earth 
today. But, nevertheless, there are among the Muslim religion a few who 
really are dead set on changing the world--we know all about that--and 
now they are wreaking utter havoc, primarily in Iraq, and to an extent 
now in Afghanistan.

But that snapshot and those assumptions have not been borne out. We 
do not have any real evidence before us today, or real basis for much 
hope as to what this Iraqi Government might achieve in the foreseeable 
future. The President specifically said on January 10, the Armed Forces 
of Iraq will take the lead. We will be largely in a supporting role. We 
will embed forces, we will train, we will supply, but they are taking 
more of the lead. In fact, they have to a limited extent but not to the 
extent that I believe are the hopes and expectations that were raised 
in the President's January 10 framework of remarks. Certainly the 
Government has not performed as we had hoped and expected. The Armed 
Forces are making a contribution today but not to the degree that was 
anticipated in the fall of 2006.

I could go on and recite other concerns I have about this report, 
namely, can anyone point to where the Department of Defense sat down 
and studied the strategy in this report and has reached conclusions as 
to whether it would work better than the current strategy? Would it 
bring about a greater strength of government? Would it bring about a 
greater will, simple will among the Iraqi forces, to take on more and 
more responsibility?

I think, before we recommend to this body and, indeed, if it were to 
pass and become legislation, to the President, that he consider 
implementing a major portion, as this amendment describes, of the 
recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, someone better bring forth a 
careful military analysis of what might occur given the situation 
today--not the situation in the fall of 2006--of what would happen if 
we made a shift in strategy from the one now employed to this.

That is essential, if we are asking Senators to support that. Show us 
some analytical study of this strategy and how it would bring about 
greater results than the current strategy being employed.

There is great credibility attached to this report, primarily because 
of the extraordinary membership--their experience, their achievements 
in the private and public sector. Do we know for a fact that all 
members of that committee are endorsing the concept that now the Senate 
should lift their report as written and prepared some 8 months ago? Are 
there not some among that group who might question today whether the 
assumptions that they had that led to their report are still there to 
support now a shift of strategy? I don't know. I don't see that 
evidence. I


wish to see something from the members, each one, because I think it 
would be difficult if we shifted to this Iraq Study Group and one or 
more of the members of that group got up in the public and said: What 
we said then is simply not going to work today.

I think that is important because you are trading on the credibility 
of men and women of clear conscience, extraordinary backgrounds, who 
did, I think, a very fine job as best they could based on facts which 
have largely changed, or facts or assumptions that have not 
materialized.

We talk about a bipartisan resolution. I think the colleagues tonight 
joined me some weeks ago in putting together a consensus of a 
bipartisan nature, to go forward and to guide this Nation. It was, 
somewhat to my surprise, taken almost verbatim by the appropriators and 
included in the recent appropriations bill--I say recent, it was 6 or 8 
weeks ago--and is now the law.

Part of that report that I wrote together with colleagues here said 
we ought to have an independent analysis of the Iraqi security forces 
as they exist today and what they might represent 2, 3, 4, 5 months 
into the future. I must say--I say it with a sense of humility--I 
persuaded a former commandant of the Marine Corps, Jim Jones, a man who 
has enormous credibility on both sides of the Congress, House and 
Senate, to head that group. I have met with him. He brought in 
distinguished retired military officers. Tonight, as we are here 
debating, they are in Iraq, preparing a report for this Congress and 
for the President as to their best judgment as to the military 
proficiency, the capability and will to fight of the Iraqi forces today 
and what is the likelihood that will improve in the months to come, 
because so much of all of our strategy, be it the surge strategy or any 
strategy, is dependent on that. As the President has said most 
eloquently: When they stand up, we will stand down.

I believed we needed an independent study, not to criticize the 
Department of Defense which for months has provided report after report 
of their analysis, but we ought to get a second opinion. That is now 
being prepared and will be brought forth, I think, in large part and 
made public prior to the President making his September 15 analysis.

That report we put together, which was adopted by the appropriators, 
the bill we had here, required the President to report to the Congress 
on or before July 15. I believed it was very important for colleagues 
to have a current analysis by the President, drawing upon the CENTCOM 
Commander, Admiral Fallon, drawing upon General Petraeus and other 
elements of the administration, to provide the Congress with a set of 
facts so, on the assumption we leave here early in August on a recess, 
we have a current analysis provided by the executive branch.

That report will be forthcoming. I think it is imminent. I happen to 
know the dates--I think we do--but I am not at liberty to divulge them 
tonight.

That report will also analyze the benchmarks, which benchmarks we 
recited in that bill which was voted on by this Chamber, or adopted by 
over 50 votes. We had to have a 60-vote margin. We couldn't make the 60 
but we made it over 50. They will talk about each of the benchmarks and 
whether the Iraqi Government has made them and, if they have not, what 
the administration has done to try to encourage the Government to meet 
those benchmarks.

At this point in time there is a lot of conscientious work going on 
directed at the September timeframe when reports by General Jones and 
his group will come forth, the President will make another report, I am 
hopeful that the intelligence components of our Government will have an 
upgraded National Intelligence Estimate--so much is to be learned, when 
all this information is brought to the attention of the American public 
and to the Congress in the first weeks of September.

It is my urging that colleagues at this time in the debate on this 
bill, the annual authorization bill, try not to preempt and prejudge 
how this information will be formulated and given to the American 
public early in September.

I will close with a bit of a personal story. In 1951, 1952, I was 
privileged to serve in the United States Marine Corps. I was with a 
squadron of fighter bombers in old, cold Korea during that winter. I 
was a ground officer, a staff officer. I don't claim any fame 
whatsoever. I was doing my duty. But I watched those aviators as they 
would take off every day. I had occasion, because of my duties, to go 
up to visit the infantry and watch them.


At the same time, in the fall of 1951-1952, there was sort of a 
conference going on, largely in Panmunjon and elsewhere, to try to 
bring about peace and resolve that conflict. I remember these 
individuals who had to go out in harm's way each day, many of them, and 
said: I am wondering if I am going to be the last soldier, marine, or 
airman to take the last bullet because next time we may wake up and 
they have resolved this problem.

It dawned on them, but they went on and performed their duties. I say 
there is some parallel to this situation. Were the Senate to adopt this 
piece of work--about which I say to my colleagues, you have worked hard 
on, your hearts are in it--it would send a signal that what the 
soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines are doing today, carrying out 
the orders of the Commander in Chief, it would put in question that 
strategy. Their minds would go through that same thought: Well, if they 
are going to change it, why don't we change it right away? Because I 
don't want to be the last soldier to take the last bullet, if we are 
going to change this strategy and this strategy is not achieving the 
goals that were laid down.

It has the possibility of bringing about a great concern of those 
young people, so valiantly fighting and giving life and limb to carry 
out the orders of the President.

I think we have to pause, reflect on what we say and what we do as we 
are working on this bill. It seems to me the President is Commander in 
Chief and has made a decision. He is within, I think, 48 hours going to 
release this report and speak to the Nation. Practically speaking, this 
amendment I presume will not be brought up--I know as a fact--prior to 
his statement. But it seems to me we ought to listen carefully to what 
he has to say and his resolve as to what strategy we should be 
following in the ensuing days and weeks to come. I translate that into 
the minds of these young people fighting this fight and their families 
here at home, so worried, understandably, about the welfare of their 
loved ones.

I say to my colleagues, have you looked at the intelligence? I have 
taken it upon myself to go out to the various entities of the 
intelligence part of our community and specifically asked them about 
what they think the consequences would be if there were a change to 
this strategy. I am not at liberty to give their responses but I urge 
you to access on your own initiative that information and reflect upon 
it as you move forward and you endeavor to persuade other colleagues to 
join you in this endeavor.

Mr. President, I thank you for the opportunity to come tonight to 
express my views to good friends, friends who worked with me and did 
work with me on that piece of legislation which eventually became a 
part of the appropriations bill and is now the law of the land. That is 
the legislation that requires the President in 48 hours to make a 
report to the Nation and to the Congress and to lay down what his 
intentions are for the weeks to come, until he gives his next report on 
September 15.

I yield the floor.