# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `041a5667cb6fd41ed178d74f3a10dc10`
`Mr. STUPAK — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. STUPAK. Mr. Chairman, communities across our Nation have felt the 
effects of the ongoing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, but rural 
communities have been hit especially hard. A recent Associated Press 
story reported that nearly half the casualties in Iraq have come from 
towns of fewer than 25,000 people, and one in five come from towns of 
5,000 or less. Rural States have had some of the highest per capita 
loss rates.

I have certainly seen this in my own district. Each loss from a small 
town affects not only the family but the entire community. In light of 
these facts, we need to make sure that we are taking care of all the 
families who have lost loved ones in military service, whether those 
families live in cities or in small rural communities.

In the past year, I have encountered several disturbing cases in my 
own district in which families had to fight to have the remains of 
their loved one flown to an airport near the intended place of burial. 
The military advised the families that the bodies of their loved one 
would be flown to the nearest major urban airport, which in some cases, 
as in my district, are hundreds of miles away.

In order to meet the remains at the airport, one of the families 
would have been required to drive over 4 hours each way through a 
snowstorm. There is no reason to impose these kinds of burdens on a 
family that has already made the ultimate sacrifice. This kind of 
treatment is disrespectful and unfair. Families should not have to 
bargain with the military in order to have the remains of their loved 
ones flown to a location where they can meet their fallen hero.

In many cases, veterans organizations and other community groups want 
to show their respect when a fallen soldier arrives at an airport. We


should encourage these demonstrations of respect, instead of 
discouraging them by forcing community members to drive to urban 
airports hours away from home.

Last year, as part of the fiscal year 2007 Defense authorization, the 
House passed a similar provision that would have required the military 
to fly the remains of a fallen soldier to the military airfield nearest 
the place of burial. Unfortunately, this provision was not included in 
the final conference version of the bill; however, I think it was a 
good provision, and Members of the House were right to support it.

My amendment would provide greater flexibility. It would require 
that, whenever possible, the Department of Defense fly the remains to 
the nearest military or civilian airport. The amendment would allow the 
military to use any of the numerous small airports that exist in rural 
districts, so long as the remains are delivered to a place that is 
acceptable to the family of the fallen soldier.

Mr. Chairman, the problems I speak of are not only in my district, 
but we have seen reports from New York to California where this has 
occurred in the smaller rural districts.

As Americans, we owe a tremendous debt to those families who have 
given up a loved one in war to protect our freedom. This amendment will 
eliminate an unfair situation that those families have faced and will 
help to show our respect and gratitude for the sacrifice they have 
made.

I ask Members to support my amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.