---
---

# HONORING JONATHAN MICHAEL ROSSI
## `0433aad301d0b4868b8bc877fe3e63cc`
`Mr. BILIRAKIS — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor PFC Jonathan 
Michael Rossi, who was killed on July 1, 2007, in Baghdad, Iraq, in 
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Jonathan was part of the B Company, 2nd Battalion, 12th Cavalry 
Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division stationed in Fort Bliss, Texas, and was 
killed when his patrol encountered an insurgent attack involving an 
improvised explosive device and small-arms fire.

I did not have the privilege of knowing Private Rossi personally, but 
by all accounts he was a courageous young man who was devoted to 
serving his country and family. Jonathan grew up in Safety Harbor, 
Florida. Following his longtime dream and strong sense of duty to 
country, he joined the Army only two months after graduating from 
Countryside High School in 2005.

Jonathan was reserved young man who had spent much of his youth with 
the goal of service his country. Having lost his mother at a young age 
to cancer, he demonstrated a sense of courage and strength, which he 
brought to the battlefield.

During his short time as an Army infantryman, Jonathan earned a great 
deal of recognition for his service. Among his many awards and honors 
are a Bronze Star Medal, Purple Heart, Combat Infantrymen Badge, 
Parachutist Badge, Army Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service 
Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, 
Army Service Ribbon and the Overseas Service Ribbon.

Madam Speaker, my heart aches for Jonathan's family. He leaves behind 
his father, Michael, who also faithfully served his country for 20 
years, and seven siblings and step-siblings. May God bless the Rossi 
family and continue to watch over the country that Private Rossi so 
loved. We shall never forget him.
