---
---

# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `043755549ec3baa88beaa5640958c175`
`Ms. GIFFORDS — 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Mr. Chairman, we have before us today an excellent 
piece of legislation, the Wounded Warriors Assistance Act, that I 
believe will help untangle problems in military health care such as the 
ones that we recently saw at the Walter Reed Hospital. This legislation 
came before us in the Armed Services Committee recently, and I am 
convinced that the provisions will dramatically improve the treatment 
for our brave, wounded servicemembers and their families by the 
Department of Defense health care system.

One issue of particular importance that was addressed in this bill is 
the mental health services and screenings that we will provide to our 
troops. I want to thank Members for supporting my amendment, that 
directly impacts mental health treatment for our men and women in 
uniform.

Ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan are creating a 
brand-new generation of veterans, many have seen extreme stresses of 
war. According to the VA, post-traumatic stress syndrome rates are 
starting to appear about 20 percent. You look back during the Vietnam 
War era, those rates were close to 30 percent. So, I believe we are 
just beginning to see the tip of the iceberg.

PTSD is an issue that will face thousands of American combat veterans 
for years into the future. This legislation will help ensure that these 
soldiers don't face this problem alone.

I am proud to vote with my colleagues from the Armed Services 
Committee to report this bill favorably to the House. I will be very 
pleased to vote for this outstanding piece of legislation when it 
appears here on the House floor. I want to thank Chairman Skelton and 
Ranking Member Hunter, for bringing this piece of legislation forward, 
and, of course, the staff of the Armed Services Committee for their 
dedication to this issue.

In closing, not every American signs up to put on the uniform. Not 
every American puts their life on the line for our principles and our 
values. But for those Americans that do, we owe it to be there with 
them when they need help.