# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `043c229ad239498f5081fbb239c9e157`
`Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida — 28 July 2009`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the 
Republican Leadership standards on earmarks, I am submitting the 
following information for publication in the Congressional Record 
regarding earmarks I received as part of the H.R. 3326, Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, FY2010.

Requesting Member: Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
FY2010

Account: RDT&E, Army account

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: St. Thomas University

Address of Requesting Entity: 16401 NW 37th Avenue, Miami Gardens, FL 
33054

Description of Request: I am proud to have secured $1,500,000 for the 
Neuroscience Research Consortium to Study Spinal Cord Injury at St. 
Thomas University. St. Thomas University supports the study of central 
nervous system regeneration following traumatic spinal cord injury 
(SCI) to benefit the rehabilitation of soldiers returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan with these injuries. To carry out this research, St. Thomas 
University proposes the continued establishment of a research 
consortium in a partnership with researchers at the Spinal Cord Repair 
Laboratory at the University of Pittsburgh in Pennsylvania, who will 
translate the results of this research to a clinical setting. An 
important aspect of the consortium is that minority science students 
will be trained in research procedures. There is a documented lack of 
participation of minorities in the sciences, particularly the 
Neurosciences. On a national level, a National Science Foundation 
report by the Division of Science Resources Statistics reported in 2001 
that only 5.7% of doctoral degrees in math and science were awarded to 
minority students.

Requesting Member: Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
FY2010

Account: RDT&E, Defense-Wide account

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Barry University

Address of Requesting Entity: 11300 NE 2nd Avenue, Miami Shores, FL 
33161

Description of Request: I am proud to have secured $2,600,000 to fund 
Phase II of the Institute for Collaborative Sciences Research which is 
intended to create a state-of-the-art research infrastructure through 
new laboratory and teaching space in health care and physical sciences 
programs. The focus of the Institute will be to prepare minority 
leaders for future work in healthcare professions while facilitating 
important research that has a direct benefit on minority populations in 
my South Florida community. Barry University is one of the largest 
independent universities in Florida. The university boasts a student 
body that is more than 60% minority and 42% are the first in their 
family to attend college.

Requesting Member: Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
FY2010

Account: RDT&E, Army account

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of Miami Ryder Trauma 
Center/William Lehman Injury Research Center

Address of Requesting Entity: 1800 NW 10th Avenue, Miami, FL 33136

Description of Request: I am proud to have secured $4,000,000 for the 
Army Trauma Training Center (ATTC) at the Ryder Trauma Center situated 
in the University of Miami/Jackson Memorial Medical Center. The ATTC 
has functioned as the national training center for U.S. Army Forward 
Surgical Teams (FSTs) since 2001. Monthly, the ATTC conducts 14-day 
training program for deploying FSTs in order to improve clinical skills 
and teamwork. The resources of the Ryder Trauma Center and the William 
Lehman Injury Research Center present a unique opportunity to develop 
and evaluate new and innovative diagnostic and treatment tools and 
point-of-care information systems to maximize the care of injured 
soldiers. The Ryder Trauma Center is developing diagnostics and devices 
to help the medic on the battlefield determine which casualties require 
immediate resuscitation and to enhance the capability of first-
responders to effectively treat casualties as close to the geographic 
location and time of the injury as possible. Since January 2001, the 
Army Trauma Training Center, in conjunction with the Ryder Trauma 
Center, has trained over 33 forward surgical teams and more than 650 
Army personnel in active duty and reserve components--two-thirds of all 
forward surgical teams in the U.S. Army--supporting over 75,000 combat 
troops.



