---
---

# HONORING THE SERVICE OF U.S. MARINE CPL. NICHOLAS G. XIARHOS
## `0442d980d8afea6030f350a15b75ffd9`
`Mr. DELAHUNT — 31 July 2009`

---


Mr. DELAHUNT. Madam Speaker, I rise today so that my colleagues in 
the House of Representatives can join me in honoring the service of 
U.S. Marine Corporal Nicholas G. Xiarhos--a loving son and brother, 
exceptionally dedicated soldier, and a constituent of mine.

On July 23, Nick died after being injured by a roadside explosive 
while serving in the Garmsir District, an area in the volatile region 
of southern Afghanistan. If ever there was an individual who went above 
and beyond to answer the call of service to his country, Nick was that 
man. He returned from a tour of duty in Iraq this past October only to 
change battalions so that he could be redeployed to Afghanistan in May. 
At the time of his death, Nick was serving with the 2nd Battalion, 8th 
Marine Regiment, and was scheduled to return home around Christmas.

Beloved and admired by his family, peers, fellow men and women in 
uniform, and his hometown community of Yarmouth, Massachusetts, 21-
year-old Nick was the epitome of a true American hero. He eschewed 
being singled out for his achievements and admirable sacrifices, 
telling others that he was no different from the thousands of other 
Marines who shared the same mission. As he told his parents only two 
weeks before his death, he was living his dream while serving in 
Afghanistan despite the physical and emotional toll that combat takes 
on even the most seasoned soldiers.

Six feet tall, athletic, and muscular, Nick had a heart of gold that 
instinctively drew others to him. During his years at Dennis-Yarmouth 
Regional High School, he was dubbed ''the mayor of DY'' for his 
outgoing, amiable, friendly nature and popularity. As a senior, he 
received the ''Does Most For Others'' title--a well-deserved moniker 
that embodied how Nick approached relationships, his military service, 
and life in general. Upon returning from Afghanistan, Nick's goal was 
to attend college and--following in his father, Lieutenant Steven 
Xiarhos', footsteps--to become a police officer.

Nick's life was one of immense promise, tragically ended too soon. As 
he is laid to rest tomorrow, I want to extend my deepest condolences to 
the Xiarhos family--his parents, Steven and Lisa; his younger brother, 
Alexander; and his twin sisters, Ashlynne and Elizabeth. While he will 
be truly missed by all those whose lives he touched, Nick's memory and 
the sacrifice he made for our country will forever live on.

Thank you, Nicholas Xiarhos, for your service. May you rest in peace.
