---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `0447e9136b9829d68c7232889d570290`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. At this time, I yield myself whatever time I may 
consume.

Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of my amendment to prohibit the 
use of funds in this bill to discourage analysts from using the words 
''jihadist,'' ''jihad,'' ''caliphate,'' ''Islamist'' or ''Islamic 
terrorist'' by or within the intelligence community or the United 
States Government.

We are dealing with an enemy that speaks in no uncertain terms about 
its desire to attack our homeland and kill innocent Americans. In a 
statement released in March, Osama bin Laden said the following:

''God, make the mujahedin in Palestine, Iraq, Afghanistan, the 
Islamic Maghreb, the Arabian Peninsula, Somalia, Chechnya, and 
everywhere victorious. God, defeat our enemies of the Jews, the 
Christians, and their supporters.''

More recently, in May bin Laden said the following:

''O youths of the generation: Jihad is the only way to liberate 
Palestine and al-Aqsa Mosque and to regain the orthodox caliphate, God 
willing.''

Al Qaeda itself uses these terms to describe its fight against 
America, our allies, and moderate Muslims around the world. Why then 
would we prohibit our intelligence professionals from using the same 
words to accurately describe al Qaeda's stated goals?

Yet that is exactly what some in Washington are attempting to do. I 
was dismayed to learn that over the past few months, intelligence 
bureaucrats at the State Department, the National Counterterrorism 
Center, and the Department of Homeland Security have issued memos 
imposing speech codes on how their employees can describe al Qaeda and 
other radical jihadist groups. They won't even be able to use the words 
these groups use themselves to describe themselves. These agencies 
within the intelligence community won't be able to use those words.

Mr. Chairman, free speech should not be controversial, nor should 
candid, accurate, and fair discussion of the self-professed goals of 
the terrorists that attack our homeland and have sworn to kill more 
Americans.

I find it more than ironic that some who have complained the loudest 
about politicization in the intelligence community would oppose this 
simple amendment to prevent the politically correct politicization of 
our Nation's intelligence community. We all know that political 
correctness can be the enemy of clarity.

We also know that radical jihadists have made repeated efforts to 
stifle free speech in the West, including the murder of Dutch film 
maker, Theo van Gogh, and frequent death threats against authors, 
cartoonists, and journalists.

Let's not give the radical jihadists a victory here by imposing a 
speech code on America's intelligence community.

With that, I will reserve the balance of my time.