---
---

# None
## `0453deb6e99e0f6edb96dc78302b2fab`
`Mr. CONYERS — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, I rise to voice my strong support for 
H.R. 5554, the ''Justin Bailey Veterans Substance Use Disorders 
Prevention and Treatment Act of


2008.'' This legislation grants to our veterans access to a 
comprehensive continuum of substance abuse treatment services provided 
by Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers. The bill also 
requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to inform veterans of 
Operations Enduring Freedom or Iraqi Freedom about the availability of 
such care.

Madam Speaker, we have sent thousands of otherwise healthy young men 
and women to Iraq and Afghanistan to fight. Many of those who were 
lucky enough to escape unscathed physically, are suffering agonizing 
symptoms emotionally. Depression, anxiety, and symptoms of post-
traumatic stress disorder plague countless veterans returning from the 
battlefield. Without proper treatment, our veterans turn to self-
medicating these psychiatric symptoms by abusing alcohol and other 
substances.

It would be negligent, if not hypocritical, of us not to offer 
comprehensive substance abuse treatment for all returning veterans. 
This legislation ensures that a ''continuum'' of services, including 
screening for substance use disorders, detoxification and stabilization 
services, intensive outpatient services, relapse prevention services, 
counseling services, and other necessary services, are offered to our 
returning veterans.

Of course, these services require funding. H.R. 5554 ensures that 
funding for a full continuum of substance abuse treatment is made 
available to veterans seeking such care. Although H.R. 5554 authorizes 
a pilot program for Internet-based substance use disorder treatment, 
let us not sell our veterans short by cutting corners on care. More 
funding is needed to ensure that enough psychiatrists, nurses, 
psychologists, and social workers are available to care for our 
returning veterans. As well, more research funding is required in order 
to better understand and treat disorders of substance abuse and 
dependence which plague our veterans.

Madam Speaker, I find it appalling that we ask our young men and 
women in the Armed Forces to sacrifice life and limb overseas in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, yet when those very soldiers return home, we deny them 
vital mental health and substance abuse treatment services. Let us 
begin to right this wrong by supporting H.R. 5554, and improve 
substance abuse treatment services available to our veterans.