# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `046399fa2f05feb544a5bf4c8de45808`
`Mrs. LOWEY — 21 June 2007`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. With great respect for my good friend and ranking member, 
Mr. Wolf, we have just provided $2.863 billion in emergency 
supplemental appropriations for Iraq, diplomatic operations and 
reconstruction.

In addition, there are $3 billion for unexpended IRF funds. This 
amendment is requesting $140 million in additional funding for 
democracy, rule of law and governance programs. The supplemental 
provided $250 million for democracy activities, $67.6 million for civil 
society, $57.4 million for targeted development, $125 million in 
governance programs, and $150 million in rule of law activities.

The amendment is also requesting $16 million in additional funding 
for nonproliferation, anti-terrorism and demining activities. The 
recently passed supplemental provided $7 million for demining in Iraq.

Additionally, nowhere in this bill is there language restricting 
funding for humanitarian activities in Iraq. In my judgment, the 
administration should substantially expend the funds we have provided 
before Congress provides additional funding for the same purposes.

And lastly, if the situation on the ground changes and our assistance 
can be used to make substantial achievements, we can address funding 
for Iraq as the President has requested, $2.893 billion in emergency 
appropriations for diplomatic operations and reconstruction in Iraq in 
fiscal year 2008.

So, my colleagues, my good friend is requesting $158 million for 
purposes that have already been funded in a $2.8 billion supplemental. 
And there is another $2.893 billion supplemental coming up in 
September. I know that $158 million can be used for the tremendous 
needs around the world.

I strongly oppose this amendment, and I ask that my colleagues join 
me.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.