# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `04663df7899499116657227c249d8bf8`
`Ms. HARMAN — 9 May 2007`

---


Ms. HARMAN. Mr. Chairman, as the majority leader pointed out several 
minutes ago, yesterday the FBI arrested six men following a 15-month 
investigation. The charges are that, inspired by al Qaeda, they were 
bent on taking out as many soldiers as possible at Fort Dix using 
semiautomatic weapons and rocket-propelled grenades. Three of them were 
in this country illegally. The other three were American citizens. All 
lived unremarkable lives and seemed well integrated into their 
communities. Even their next-door neighbors had no reason to suspect 
that they were actually the vanguard of a new breed of terrorist.

In Torrance, California, in my congressional district, four members 
of a prison-based jihadist cell await trial on charges of conspiring to 
wage war against the U.S. Government through terrorism, kill members of 
the Armed Forces, and murder foreign officials.

Mr. Chairman, this is our future. Protecting the homeland, preventing 
and disrupting the next terrorist attack is the primary responsibility 
of the Homeland Security Committee, and I congratulate Chairman 
Thompson and Ranking Member King for putting together this 
authorization bill.

The bill strengthens homeland security by expanding on successful 
ideas like fusion centers and strengthening our infrastructure.

Many in this Chamber are focused on our broken Iraq policy. So am I. 
But I also worry that, while we are consumed with the Iraq debate, al 
Qaeda and its friends are successfully expanding and adapting in ways 
that are long-term, global and enormously dangerous. Al Qaeda has 
proven that the brand is ''portable.'' Its embrace of low-tech, 
unspectacular operations makes it much harder to stop.

Why haven't we been attacked here? Some say al Qaeda is waiting to 
exceed the lethality of 9/11. But if the U.S. is perceived as weaker 
and bogged down in Iraq and if terrorists are scaling down attacks, an 
attack or series of near-simultaneous attacks here seems inevitable.

The Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, which I chair, is 
focused on the threat of homegrown terrorism and improving ways to 
disrupt and prevent the next attack. If the terrorists are here, the 
activities of that subcommittee are critical.

This bill helps us build our intelligence competence. It strengthens 
parts of the budget that are underfunded and authorizes crucial 
activities. Vote ''aye.''