---
---

# None
## `046ab88417bf5f50a8b28844eda0cc2b`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 4 October 2007`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, I am proud to present to the U.S. Senate 
the bill to fund the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and our science 
agencies. I want to thank Senators Reid and McConnell for agreeing to 
bring up the CJS bill, and Chairman Byrd and Ranking Member Cochran for 
the CJS Subcommittee's robust 302(b) allocation. This is a bipartisan 
bill. Senator Shelby and I worked hand-in-hand. I thank him and his 
excellent staff for their partnership.

The CJS bill totals $54 billion in discretionary budget authority. 
Did we spend more than the President asked for? You bet we did. We are 
proud that our bill is $3.2 billion above the President's budget 
request.

Let's talk about how we spent the money. The subcommittee had three 
priorities:

Security--keeping 300 million Americans safe from terrorism and 
violent crime.

Innovation--investments in science and technology to create jobs that 
will stay in the United States.

Accountability--fiscal accountability and stewardship of taxpayer 
dollars, standing sentry against waste, fraud and abuse.

The subcommittee's first priority is protecting America from 
terrorism and violent crime. The Justice Department is almost 50 
percent of the CJS bill. Funding for Justice totals almost $25 billion, 
$2.1 billion more than the President's request. The CJS bill funds our 
major Federal law enforcement agencies, and our State and local cops on 
the beat.

CJS funds the Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI. The FBI is our 
domestic national security agency. It has a dual mission--disrupting 
terrorism on U.S. soil--tracking and taking down terror cells and 
dismantling dirty bombs, as well as fighting violent crime in our 
communities. The CJS bill provides $6.6 billion for the FBI, $150 
million more than the President's budget request. This includes almost 
$4 billion for FBI counterterrorism. Our bill will put 230 new 
counterterrorism agents on the beat and give agents new tools to 
collect intelligence to protect Americans here at home. At the same 
time, the President's budget cut 100 FBI agents dedicated to fighting 
violent crime. This is outrageous--because for the first time in almost 
15 years, violent crime has increased. Robberies are up 7 percent. 
Homicides are up 2 percent. Nearly every region of the country has been 
affected--from large cities to small communities. We've heard from our 
colleagues that the FBI needs more agents fighting violent crime in 
their communities. The CJS bill rejects the President's irresponsible 
cut. We provide full funding to retain 100 FBI agents that the 
President eliminated.

The CJS bill also funds the Drug Enforcement Administration, DEA. The 
DEA is an international agency--in over 60 countries, with significant 
local responsibilities. It's fighting a $330 billion annual drug trade 
in over 60 countries around the world. Drugs finance over two-thirds of 
all terrorist activity, including the Taliban. The DEA is in 
Afghanistan fighting narcoterrorism, working hand-in-hand with our 
military to disrupt the poppy trade that funds terrorist networks. And 
the DEA is in our communities, fighting the scourge of illegal drugs 
like heroin and meth that destroy our neighborhoods. We were horrified 
to learn that the DEA has a hiring freeze. The DEA can't hire new 
agents. This is outrageous--so we added $50 million to DEA to lift the 
hiring freeze so DEA can hire up 200 new agents to fight drugs at home 
and abroad.

The CJS bill funds the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and 
Explosives, ATF, which investigates arson and stops illegal firearms 
trafficking. The ATF is working hand-in-hand with our military to 
disable the improvised explosive devices, IEDs, that are so perilous to 
our troops on the battlefield. We provide robust support for our U.S. 
Marshals Service, keeping our marshals on the beat to track down 
dangerous fugitives--including sexual predators and drug kingpins--
protect


Federal judges and provide security at terrorist trials here in the 
U.S. and in Afghanistan.

The CJS bill is also the most important source of Federal funding for 
the frontline men and women of our State and local police forces, 
working tirelessly to keep our families and neighborhoods safe. Our 
cops on the beat are working harder than ever to fight rising violent 
crime. And our State and local police are often the first to identify 
suspected terrorist activities in their communities. At the same time, 
State and local budgets are under increased stress. So we were deeply 
troubled by the President's draconian cuts of almost $1.5 billion from 
grant funds for State and local police. The CJS bill rejects these 
outrageous cuts. Instead we provide a total of $2.7 billion to give our 
cops the tools they need to fight crime, gangs, drugs, domestic 
violence, and crimes against children.

Our bill provides $660 million for Byrne formula grants. President 
Bush eliminated Byrne grants formula grants to States that pay for 
police and prosecutors, training and technology, and require a 25-
percent State match. The first President Bush named these grants for 
Edward Byrne, a New York City police officer killed in the line of 
fire. If Byrne grants were good enough for Bush 41, why aren't they 
good enough for this President Bush?

We also provide $550 million for Community Oriented Policing 
Services, COPS, grants. President Bush only asked for $32 million to 
terminate COPS grants. COPS is a competitive grant program that pays 
for police salaries and overtime, police technology, and equipment like 
surveillance cameras and interoperable communications equipment. The 
CJS bill makes sure that our cops are not walking the thin blue line 
drawn through green eyeshades.

The CJS bill provides over $300 million to prevent, investigate and 
prosecute despicable crimes against children. This includes: $55 
million for a new national initiative for grants to State and locals to 
locate, arrest and prosecute child sexual predators; $65 million to 
fight child abduction and exploitation and locate missing children; $9 
million for the FBI's Innocent Images project--for agents and 
technology to track the deviants who use the Internet to prey on our 
children; $8 million for the U.S. Marshals to apprehend fugitive sexual 
predators and get them off our streets and out of our neighborhoods; 
$10 million for grants to keep kids safe from violence at school.


Our second priority for the CJS bill is investing in America's future 
competitiveness. We added $1 billion above the President's request for 
science, education and economic development to foster job creation--for 
jobs that will stay in this country and to inspire and train our future 
scientists and engineers. We based our funding levels on the best ideas 
from outside experts like the National Academy of Sciences. We took the 
politics out of science. The CJS bill implements the framework of the 
recently enacted America COMPETES Act. This bipartisan legislation 
recommended investments in science and education to improve America's 
global competitiveness.

We provide $6.5 billion for the National Science Foundation, NSF, 
$125 million above the President's budget request. NSF is important 
because it funds 20 percent of all federally supported basic research 
conducted by America's colleges and universities in many fields such as 
math and computer science. NSF is the major source of federal support. 
NSF keeps the U.S. on the leading edge of discovery in areas like 
astronomy and geology. And NSF supports our college and universities' 
efforts to educate our next generation of scientists and engineers, 
including at our historically Black colleges and universities, HBCUs.

We provide $860 million for the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, NIST. NIST is important because it sets standards that are 
critical to successful commerce, and transfers technology to American 
industry. Our recommendations provide $100 million for the Technology 
Innovation Partnership program, which will replace the Advanced 
Technology Program to foster the development of the newest 
technologies, and $110 for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, 
MEP, which helps U.S. manufacturers to be more competitive.

The bill also provides $17.5 billion for NASA, $150 million above the 
President's budget request. NASA is our No. 1 innovation agency. No 
other agency has the ability to inspire our future scientists and 
engineers like NASA does. The bill keeps our commitment to human space 
flight. It fully funds the space shuttle at $4 billion and the space 
station at $2.2 billion. And we provide $3.9 billion to Ares and Orion, 
the next generation vehicle. The space shuttle will be retired in 2010. 
We must continue to have safe, reliable space transportation.

Later, I will offer an amendment with Senators Hutchison, Shelby and 
Landrieu to finally begin to pay the bill of returning the space 
shuttle to flight after the Columbia tragedy. To ensure that we 
continue to have the premier space agency in the world, NASA must have 
a balanced portfolio of human space flight, science and aeronautics 
research.

In the area of Earth science, the bill includes $25 million above the 
budget request to begin to implement the recommendations of the recent 
Earth Science Decadal Survey, the top priorities of the scientific 
community, and missions we need to accomplish to help us better 
understand and predict the Earth's environment and climate.

For aeronautics research, we provide $554 million. This is so 
critical because we must rise to the challenge of our international 
competitors. Aeronautics is an area that we would have liked to do 
more. As our bill moves to conference with the other body, we hope to 
be able to add funding for aeronautics.

A strong patent system is critical to an innovation-friendly 
government. We provide $1.9 billion for the Patent and Trademark 
Office, PTO--this is full access to all fees. We know there have been 
concerns that the PTO's fees have been used to pay for other 
priorities. Senator Shelby and I are committed to giving PTO full 
access to the resources it needs. Our bill will allow the PTO to hire 
1,200 new patent examiners to reduce application backlogs and 
processing times. We are livid that it takes almost 3 years for the PTO 
to make a decision on a patent application. Through our oversight, we 
have required PTO to implement management reforms to reduce the backlog 
of applications, while ensuring quality.

The CJS bill also provides $420 million for the International Trade 
Administration, ITA, to investigate unfair trade practices and enforce 
our trade laws. It includes $48 million for the United States Trade 
Representative, USTR, to negotiate trade agreements that protect our 
intellectual property.

For the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, NOAA, the 
bill provides $4.2 billion, $400 million above the President's budget 
request. This includes $795 million to implement the bipartisan 
recommendations of the Joint Ocean Commission. Seventy percent of the 
Earth is covered by oceans, but only 5 percent of the oceans are 
explored. Our Nation's economy depends on the oceans. Oceans contribute 
$120 billion to our economy and support over 2 million jobs. The bill 
also provides full funding for the National Weather Service, which is 
so important to saving lives and livelihoods.

I think my colleagues would be interested in knowing that the CJS 
bill funds 85 percent of all federal climate change science. That's 
about $1.6 billion for peer-reviewed basic research at NSF, atmospheric 
weather and climate research at NOAA, and NASA Earth science missions 
studying. As we look for solutions to this crisis, the CJS bill will 
continue to give us sound science to inform our policy decisions.

The CJS bill emphasizes oversight, accountability and fiscal 
stewardship. Let me tell my colleagues--there's a new sherriff in town. 
It's a bipartisan posse against cost overruns, ineffective management 
and mismanagement of taxpayer dollars. The CJS Subcommittee, through 
its oversight, has uncovered enormous cost overruns and schedule 
slippages. NOAA's satellite program was $4 billion over budget. NSF's 
research equipment was $25 million over budget. At the appropriate 
time, I will offer an amendment to prevent this mismanagement and get 
our agencies back to fiscal discipline.

Through our oversight, we also uncovered dramatic backlogs at PTO and 
the Equal Employment Opportunity


Commission, EEOC. And we required effective, efficient management 
reform. The CJS bill insists on discipline and vigorous oversight. It 
requires each agency to notify the committee about cost overruns 
greater than 10 percent, bans funding for lavish banquets, and requires 
that inspectors general conduct random audits of grant funding.

Unfortunately, the President threatened to veto the CJS bill. He 
doesn't support funding for these additional investments I have 
outlined. The CJS bill reflects bipartisan priorities to make America 
safer and smarter. I think these investments in fighting terrorism and 
violent crime, and educating our future scientists and engineers, are 
wise uses of taxpayer dollars.

Let me be clear--we didn't overspend; the President under funded. It 
is not lavish to lift the DEA hiring freeze so we starve terrorists of 
their financing, or to give our men and women in blue the tools they 
need to keep us safe.

The President should not veto this bill. Instead, together we should 
veto funding for the Taliban and jobs moving overseas. I believe that, 
if necessary, the Senate will stand up for our families, neighborhoods 
and communities by standing up against the President's veto. Let's veto 
jobs going overseas; let's veto the Taliban.

Again, I want to thank Senator Shelby and his staff for their 
cooperation and collegiality. This is a fair and balanced bill, and I 
urge my colleagues to support it. For the information of our 
colleagues, Senator Shelby and I intend to move this bill quickly. We 
encourage Members with amendments to come to the floor and offer them 
now. The bill fully complies with the subcommittee's 302(b) allocation 
so any amendments will need offsets. It also fully complies with the 
recently enacted Honest Leadership and Open Government Act.

Mr. President, in a short time, I will be joined by my colleague, the 
distinguished senior Senator from Alabama, who is my ranking member. 
He, too, will be making his opening statement. I thank Senators Reid 
and McConnell for agreeing to bring up this billand Chairman Byrd and 
Ranking Member Cochran for a rather robust 302(b) allocation to let 
this bill go forward.

First, let me say to my colleagues in the Senate as they watch this 
debate that this bill is a bipartisan bill. The Senator from Alabama, 
Mr. Shelby, and I worked hand in hand to craft a bill that is in the 
best interest of the United States of America and not trying to score 
partisan political points. That is what we have done.

The Commerce-Justice-Science bill promotes a strong economy, promotes 
a safer country, and also promotes U.S. competitiveness in the world.

The CJS bill totals $54 billion in discretionary budget authority. 
Did we spend more than the President asked for? You bet we did, and we 
are proud that our bill is $3.2 billion above the President's request 
because we put the money primarily into security. We spent the money in 
this bill on security, keeping 300 million Americans safe from 
terrorism and also fighting violent crime. We also promoted innovation 
and competitiveness by investing in scientific research and technology 
and the scientific education of our people. But we were also strong 
stewards of the taxpayers' money and have promoted accountability, 
fiscal accountability, and stewardship of taxpayers' dollars. We, 
working on a bipartisan basis, stood sentry against waste, fraud and 
abuse and we have put our language also in the checkbook.


The subcommittee's first priority is to protect the American people--
to protect the American people from terrorism, a war without borders, a 
war without a front. We also want to protect them here at home against 
violent crime, against murder, mayhem, sexual predators stalking our 
children, violence against women, looking out for our children, and 
making sure there are enough cops on the beat.

The Justice Department is almost 50 percent of the CJS bill. Funding 
for the Justice component totals over $25 billion. But remember what we 
do: We fund the Federal law enforcement agencies--the FBI, the DEA, the 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, as well as our 
Marshals Service. Our major law enforcement count on us. But who else 
also counts on us? State and local cops on the beat. We have put the 
money into the Federal checkbook to say: As you go after the bad guys, 
we are absolutely on your side.

Let us start with our primary responsibility as a Federal government, 
and that is funding the FBI, the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is 
our premier domestic law enforcement agency. It has a dual mission. One 
is fighting violent crime in our communities, and in that it is well 
known, well established, and well respected. But after that terrible 
attack on the United States, we had to decide how we were going to have 
a domestic agency also focus on terrorism. We didn't create a new 
Federal agency to do that because we didn't want a new bureaucracy. We 
wanted a new and fresh effort against terrorism. So we gave it to the 
FBI. If you read all the British spy novels and so on, the FBI is akin 
to the MI5 in England.

This bill provides $6.6 billion for the FBI. That is $6.6 billion for 
the FBI, which is $150 million more than the President's budget. This 
includes almost $4 billion for their counterterrorism effort. To make 
sure we are fighting terrorism effectively, our bill also puts 230 new 
counterterrorism agents out there and gives them new tools to protect 
Americans at home.

At the same time, we want to make sure we are fighting violent crime. 
We have been very concerned about some of the budget games going on at 
Justice and OMB, where they keep moving agents around, out of their job 
of fighting crime to fight terrorism so those numbers look good; then 
they eliminate those vacancies, and there we are. We need our FBI doing 
both. Violent crime in America has increased 2 percent. Homicides are 
up 2 percent and robberies are up 7 percent. Nearly every region of the 
country has been affected, from very large cities to small communities.

We have heard from our colleagues the FBI needs more agents and more 
help fighting violent crime in their communities. The CJS bill rejects 
the President's cut. We provide funding to retain 100 FBI agents that 
the President eliminated. Eliminating FBI agents when we are fighting 
crime and fighting terrorism? I don't think that is a good idea. I 
don't think that is a good idea at all. On a bipartisan basis, we 
rejected that foolhardy recommendation. So we will be there for the 
FBI.

But they are not the only ones fighting terrorism and fighting crime 
in our streets. The other is the DEA. It is an international agency as 
well as an all-American agency. It is in over 60 countries. Yet, at the 
same time, has very strong border and local responsibilities. Fighting 
a $330 billion international drug trade, they need help. Drugs finance 
over two-thirds of the terrorist activities. It comes out of 
Afghanistan, from the poppy fields of Afghanistan, and they are seeing 
one of the biggest crops they have ever had. That money goes to funding 
the Taliban and funding terrorist activity.

The DEA is, right now, in Afghanistan fighting narcoterrorism, 
working hand-in-hand with the Karzai Government, working hand-in-hand 
with our military to disrupt that poppy trade. But right now they are 
also in our streets and our neighborhoods working with our local police 
chiefs, working with our local sheriffs, working with our local FBI, 
fighting to keep the scourge of illegal drugs, ranging from heroin to 
meth, from destroying our neighborhoods.

We were horrified during the committee hearing to learn that DEA has 
a hiring freeze. A hiring freeze on drug enforcement agents? Oh, my 
gosh. Foolhardy. Foolhardy. This is outrageous. So, again, working on a 
bipartisan basis, we added a modest $50 million to DEA to lift this 
hiring freeze so they can now hire up to 200 new agents to fight drugs 
at home, drugs in schools, and drugs overseas.

We have also funded the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and 
Explosives, which does everything from investigating arson to stopping 
illegal firearms trafficking. They are also working hand-in-hand with 
our military to come up with ways to deal with these terrible 
improvised explosive devices.

We also provide robust support for our Marshals Service, where we ask 
them to track down everyone from dangerous fugitives to sexual 
predators. They protect our Federal judges,


they provide security at terrorist trials, and they are doing a good 
job, so we need to support them.

Where we have also made another significant effort, though, when it 
comes to State and local law enforcement in the CJS bill, is the most 
important source of Federal funding for that thin blue line of local 
law enforcement that is out there every day working tirelessly to keep 
our families, our schools, and our neighborhoods safe. Our cops on the 
beat are working harder than ever to fight this rising tide of violent 
crime. Our local and State police are often the first to identify 
suspected terrorist activities, but their budgets are under increased 
stress. So we were deeply troubled when the President came in with 
draconian cuts to the State and local police.


What did the administration do? Well, first of all, in that famous 
Cops on the Beat Program that helped local law enforcement have more 
officers, they reduced the funding to a skimpy, Spartan $32 million for 
the whole country to put cops on the beat. One State alone could use 
that. At the same time, they eliminated the Byrne grants. The Byrne 
grants are those Federal funds named after Edward Byrne, a police 
officer from New York killed in the line of duty, and this program was 
to help local law enforcement have the tools, the technology they need 
to protect themselves so they can protect us. That was eliminated.

We are spending a fortune on so many other things, such as the war in 
Iraq, and yet we eliminated the Byrne grants? Well, this committee 
stepped up to it and we have added $1.5 billion for grants for the 
State and local police. These funds will fight crime, gangs, meth, 
violence in the schools, and we think it is terrific. Our bill will 
provide $660 million for the Byrne grant formula. It will pay for the 
improved technology they need, improved training and police and 
prosecutors.

We also added $550 million to the community policing efforts, which 
is a competitive grant program that enables them to bring more police 
into their department, paying their salaries and their overtime. We 
stand with the frontline. We stand with the thin blue line.

We are also protecting ourselves against other threats. We do not 
want to have a declining economy or a declining ability to compete in 
the world. So our committee fostered innovation and competitiveness. So 
when we look at those things in our legislation, we added more money. 
We implemented the recently enacted bipartisan bill called the COMPETES 
Act. We added $1 billion to the science and commerce part of this bill, 
and $6.5 billion for the National Science Foundation. We provided $860 
million for the National Institute of Standards and Technology. We 
provide close to $2 billion to the Patent and Trademark Office, to make 
sure they are fully functioning and dealing with the backlogs. We fund 
the ITA and our International Trade Representative.

We also have two premier science agencies, one is NOAA, the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. We provide $4.2 billion for 
that, which is $400 million above the President's request; and $795 
million to implement the bipartisan recommendations of the Joint Ocean 
Commission. We also provided money to look into Federal climate change. 
This is not new for this committee. The NSF, NOAA, and NASA provide 85 
percent of all the Federal research looking at climate change. As we 
work on policy, as we try to find sensible solutions that are 
affordable to our country, they are going to turn to science, and in 
turning to science, we need to make sure we have funded them.

Last, but not at all least, a very important agency--NASA. Today is 
the 50th anniversary of Sputnik. Fifty years ago, the Russians launched 
into space a 180-pound satellite that shook the cosmos. It shook the 
cosmos and it said that the Russians were the first in space. Well, we 
knew we couldn't let that lie. So President Eisenhower answered that 
call with robust efforts in science and particularly the National 
Science Foundation.

A few years later, 3 years later, a dynamic President, named Jack 
Kennedy, put out a national goal that we were going to go to the Moon, 
we would be there first and return our astronauts safely. Well, 50 
years later, we honor that legacy by providing $17.5 billion for NASA, 
$150 million above the President's request, to keep our commitment to a 
balanced space program--the space shuttle, the space station, and the 
next-generation space vehicle.

We make significant efforts in science and aeronautics, and I will 
talk more about that later when I will offer an amendment, along with 
my colleagues, Senators Shelby, Hutchison, Landrieu, and Nelson, on how 
to help NASA continue to meet its responsibility.

In conclusion, let me say this committee has been strongly committed 
to reform, strongly committed to accountability and oversight and 
fiscal stewardship. Through our oversight, we uncovered cost overruns 
on the NOAA satellite programs, with $4 billion over budget; the NSF's 
research equipment program, $25 million over budget; and dramatic 
backlogs at the Patent Office and backlogs at the EEOC. We said we were 
not going to allow that.

We also found that some of our funds were going into things such as 
lavish conferences, lobster rolls, and limousines. Well, you are going 
to have an amendment later on that is going to take that right out. 
When we give money to these agencies to do the kind of training we want 
them to do, it is not to sit around sipping chardonnay and eating 
lobster rolls and so on. So if you will pardon the expression, we told 
them ''to take a cab.'' Our bill continues to do that.


I hope the President doesn't veto our bill. We will talk about that 
more in conclusion. Again, this bill is a bipartisan bill. I presented 
it to the Senate and now I compliment my ranking member, Senator 
Shelby, and his staff.

Our staffs have worked together. I wish the taxpayers could see it; 
they would be proud of us. They would be proud of our working 
relationship, and that is why we produced a bill that works for 
America.

I yield the floor.