---
---

# FILIBUSTERS AND DELAYS IN THE SENATE
## `046cf3c5211288cc837ffb1ccd14b452`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 15 April 2008`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come to the floor, along with the 
majority leader and my colleagues, to express our extreme frustration 
with what the minority, the Republicans are doing to block basic bills 
from getting through the Senate. We are trying to move to debate and 
offer amendments on a basic bill that needs to be done, called a 
technical corrections bill for transportation projects, changing minor 
things in the law so it can move forward. Normally this bill is done 
late at night; everyone agrees to it; there is no objection; it moves 
on; it takes only a few hours of time. It has gone through a lot of 
work in committee, which Senator Boxer chairs. They have done all their 
homework. It has passed on a bipartisan basis, and it was approved by 
the Senate late last night as a procedural move. But we are here today, 
spending hours and hours with no ability to move forward, no ability to 
offer


amendments, no ability to pass it, because the Republican minority has 
decided to filibuster this bill.

I go home every week, 2,500 miles away from here to the State of 
Washington. People come up to me and say: What are we going to do about 
the rising cost of health care? What are we going to do about the fact 
that fewer and fewer doctors are seeing seniors going into Medicare? 
What are we going to do about veterans waiting in line to get the care 
they have been promised? What are we going to do about the housing 
crisis? What are we going to do about Iraq and the President's request 
for $109 billion more? In Washington, Boeing workers come up to me and 
say: What are we going to do about a procurement process that has 
allowed our military to send $40 billion to a European-owned company, 
our tax dollars, at a time when our economy is struggling, to a 
European-owned company to start producing the backbone of our military, 
our air tankers? What are we going to do about that?

These are issues that we as Democrats want to bring to the floor and 
have major debates on, move legislation forward. They will take time. 
There is disagreement. Growing up in Washington State, when somebody 
said there is a filibuster, I assumed it was a major argument of the 
day. We would rush to find out what it was about and see which Senators 
were arguing which way and wonder in what direction this would change 
our country in the future.

We are a long way from that today. The filibuster is now being used 
as a delaying tactic so we won't get to those critical pieces of 
legislation, those critical debates we ought to be having in the 
Senate.

Republicans have engaged in an historic, record-setting level of 
obstruction over the last 14 months. They haven't filibustered the 
bills themselves, but they have filibustered motions to proceed to 
basic bills that we need to pass to keep Government running. They have 
delayed us from moving forward even after voting in favor of these 
bills. That is where we find ourselves today. Once again, Republicans 
have decided to keep us from moving forward simply to delay progress. 
They don't oppose the legislation. In fact, after filing cloture on the 
motion to proceed last Thursday and waiting the obligatory 30 hours, 
last night the Senate voted, and 93 Senators wanted to move this 
legislation forward. So why are we sitting here today delaying 30 more 
hours before Senators can even start to offer amendments, if they so 
choose, so that we can then move the bill to final passage, unless, of 
course, we have to file a motion to end debate and get to another 
filibuster of 30 hours, which will take a lot more time.

We have seen this before. It is about delaying. It is about not 
allowing America to move forward. It is about not allowing progress. 
The word ''filibuster'' gets thrown around a lot here. People think of 
''Mr. Smith Goes to Washington'' and the movie appears in their head. 
That is the most celebrated version of a filibuster. But there are all 
kinds of filibusters. We have learned that firsthand, because at the 
core a filibuster is any procedural move to delay the Senate. Any one 
Senator has the power to delay us. The majority and the minority have 
the power to talk to Members and say: This is important to enough of us 
that we need to move past those objections and begin to move this 
forward. We need to work toward an agreement so we can move forward.

Time and time again we have seen people use delays on motions to 
proceed, and then the Senate has to wait 30 hours, 30 long hours with 
people such as me sitting out here talking on the floor on 
miscellaneous subjects until we can finally get through 30 hours so we 
can then be on the floor for hours waiting for Senators to offer 
amendments. That kind of delay has forced this Senate in this Congress 
for over a year now into weeks and weeks and weeks of wasted time. No 
wonder the American people think nothing is getting done in Washington. 
We are seeing delay after delay. Believe me, we are all frustrated that 
we cannot get to those important topics of the day, to be able to have 
perhaps a real filibuster on a real issue that is important, that would 
change the direction of this country. That is what a filibuster ought 
to be about. But here we have to file cloture on the motion to proceed 
to basic bills. We have had to file procedural motions on whether to 
follow the 9/11 Commission recommendations, which then passed 97 to 
nothing, once we got through all of those hours of waiting around. On 
the intelligence authorization bill, we had to file a motion to proceed 
to the bill, had to wait the 30 hours, and then the vote was 94 to 3. 
So a couple of Senators forced an entire Senate to wait 30 hours and 
not get anything done. Bill after bill I could list a desire on the 
part of the minority to delay progress.

What we are seeing is Republicans who are united for obstruction on 
issue after issue. Month after month, Republicans have put delay before 
debate, procedure above progress, and obstruction before solutions.

The American people, certainly in my State of Washington, want us to 
move forward and deal with the issues critical to their families. They 
are struggling today with the economy. They are worried about their 
ability to retire. They are worried about being able to send their kids 
to college. Certainly, our men and women who have gone to fight the war 
in Iraq are coming home and facing delays. Yet we can't get a veterans 
bill up on this floor because of the delays we are seeing.

Here we are today, waiting around to vote on a technical corrections 
bill to a transportation bill that ought to take a few minutes.

It is a sad day in the United States. I hope our colleagues will talk 
to their leaders and say: We need to move on. It is time to get the 
business of this country done. That is our job.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.