# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `046d6e8df9f84de8d7367c12818cc6c4`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chairman, first of all I want to congratulate 
Chairman Skelton for the outstanding work that he has performed 
bringing this bill onto the floor and, in particular, salute the fact 
that this bill will actually, for the first time since the beginning of 
the Virginia-class submarine program, bring the production level up to 
two submarines a year. That was a target that we were supposed to reach 
as a Nation in 2002. It had been delayed year in and year out. And 
through his leadership, we are finally going to reach that level, which 
will be important for our submarine force and our Navy.



I also rise in support of the en bloc amendment in particular to talk 
about the Troops to Teachers Enhancement Act that Congresswoman Matsui 
referred to earlier. Again, she described her efforts to try and expand 
the scope of this program to the Title I school district.

In addition to that, this is an amendment which will move the program 
into the Department of Defense from the Department of Education, a 
place


where it has been almost de facto over the last few years in any case. 
And even more importantly, it will shorten the service requirements 
from 6 years to 4 years for our military personnel, which will allow 
many more Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans to participate in this 
program, which, as she indicated, is a program that has provided a 
pathway for some of the finest Americans to participate and be in the 
classroom with all of the qualities of team work, discipline, 
particularly their strengths in the STEM area, which the Troops to 
Teachers Program in its present program's limited scope has 
demonstrated and recruited, again, outstanding teachers into the 
classrooms.

In addition to that as also introduced, male teachers and minority 
teachers--something which, again, I think is going to benefit our 
public education system greatly. It is an amendment that's been 
endorsed by veterans services organizations across the board from the 
American Legion to the VFW. In addition to that, education groups such 
as NEA and AFT have endorsed this measure.

And I thank the chairman for including this amendment in the en bloc 
amendment and urge support and passage of the entire en bloc amendment 
in the bill as a whole.