---
---

# CONGRATULATING CAPTAIN MAURY WEEKS ON THE OCCASION OF HIS RETIREMENT  FROM THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD
## `047496d6104010420541f87ab3cc7091`
`Mr. BONNER — 23 May 2008`

---


Mr. BONNER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to United 
States Coast Guard Captain Maury A. Weeks on the occasion of his 
retirement from active duty.

A native of Mobile, Alabama, Captain Weeks is a proud alumnus of the 
University of Alabama where, in addition to his academic studies, he 
was employed as a University Police Officer. Following his graduation 
from college, he enlisted in the United States Marine Corps in 1966 and 
upon completion of basic training at Parris Island was assigned to the 
Second Force Recon Company. During his enlistment, which ended with an 
honorable discharge in 1972 with the rank of sergeant, he also attended 
airborne school and mountain warfare training.

Two years later, Captain Weeks enlisted in the Coast Guard Reserve as 
a port


securityman, and following his direct commissioning as an ensign in 
1978, he was assigned to Reserve Unit Mobile. Here, he served in 
numerous positions, including training officer and administrative 
officer. In 1983, he was accepted as a reserve program administrator 
and was recalled to active duty in May 1984.

Early tours of duty included serving as chief, Reserve Training, 
Eighth District from 1984 to 1987; and as assistant chief, Port 
Operations, Marine Safety Office, Mobile from 1987 to 1990. In 1990, 
Captain Weeks was assigned to Reserve Training Center, Yorktown, as a 
member of the Port Security School staff. In this position, he was a 
member of the Port Security Unit (PSU) Training Detachment and was 
responsible for training PSUs for deployment during Desert Shield/
Desert Storm at Camp Blanding, FL. From 1992 to 1994, he was assigned 
to the Contingency Planning School as assistant school chief and 
instructor.

Captain Weeks reported to the Eighth District in 1994 as the 
assistant chief, Contingency Preparedness Branch and in 1996 was named 
the branch chief. He became chief, Administration Division, Eighth 
Coast Guard District in May 1998. In 2000, Captain Weeks became the 
chief of the Force Optimization and Training Branch at MLC LANT. In 
this position, he was heavily involved in the recall of over 4,000 
reservists in response to the events of September 11, 2001, and 
Operations Noble Eagle, Liberty Shield, and Iraqi Freedom. In 2005, 
Captain Weeks became chief of the Personnel Division, MLCA.

Throughout his career, Captain Weeks has demonstrated a tremendous 
devotion to his country and dedication to his duty. His long list of 
professional accomplishments are testament to the trust and esteem in 
which he has been held by both his superiors and subordinates. His 
career has also been marked with the receipt of numerous decorations 
and citations, including the Meritorious Service Medal, seven Coast 
Guard Commendation Medals, the Joint Services Achievement Medal, the 
Coast Guard Achievement Medal, three Coast Guard Letter of Commendation 
Ribbons, both the Coast Guard Reserve and Marine Corps Good Conduct 
Medals, and numerous unit citations and special operations service 
awards.

Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in thanking Captain 
Maury Weeks for his long and distinguished career of service to our 
country and congratulating him on the occasion of his retirement. I 
know his family, his wife, Pamela; the four children they share, Allen, 
Suzannah, Wayne and Tara; and his many friends join me in praising his 
many accomplishments and extending thanks for his service on behalf of 
a grateful Nation.
