---
---

# None
## `047c702a92c9e1283ffa1c304d9c8041`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Mr. Speaker, I have mainly listened as this 
debate has unfolded, and I have an observation. This is a sad 
spectacle. The Congress of the United States has before it now a bill 
that is intended to address an urgent need to provide research funding 
for our small businesses.

Small business is the backbone of our economy, it is where most jobs 
are created, it is where some of the best innovations occur, and where 
our small businesses need some assistance to put together the financing 
package required to explore innovative research and development ideas. 
Our small businesses don't have the funds that are available oftentimes 
through big venture capital operations. And what we are hearing in this 
debate is a complete and utter disregard for the content of this bill 
and, instead, turning it into a political debate that veers wildly away 
from any truth about what the history of this whole gas crisis is.

Number one, the basic question before us is, are we going to help the 
research and development needs of our small businesses? We believe it 
is urgent that we do so, and we won't be deterred by what is now a 
political argument.

Second, since our friends on the other side have made an accusation 
that there has been Democratic culpability, almost a conspiracy, in 
raising gas prices, I want to respond to the absurdity of that.

We have heard from our speakers how the price of a barrel of oil when 
President Bush took over was $25, it is now $119. We know that the war 
in Iraq, when it started, that catastrophic war, the price was $35, it 
is now $119. But what we also know is that under the leadership of the 
Republican Congress, we turned a blind eye on the Government's 
responsibility to look out for the middle class. Why? We destroyed 
regulatory oversight that is necessary to help folks pulling up with 
their pickup truck to fill up their gas tank.

This Enron loophole, snuck in, in the middle of the night with the 
complicity of a Republican Congress is, Mr. Speaker, and I say this 
intentionally, unconscionable, unconscionable to meeting the needs of 
average Americans who are trying to work hard and pay their bills. 
Fifty cents at least in the price of a gallon of gasoline is because 
the speculators, the hedge fund managers, are singing every day as they 
make wire transfers to their bank accounts at the expense of everyday 
Americans.

And my question is, why will not those who are expressing concern 
about the cost of gasoline and how that impacts small business and 
impacts our families, why will they not get behind Congressman Stupak 
and support The PUMP Act, get rid of the Enron loophole? Why will they 
not join with many of us who have sent letters to the President 
imploring him to release the strategic petroleum reserve or at least 
stop buying. One action would reduce, according to Goldman Sachs, the 
cost of a gallon of gasoline by 25 cents. And then there is the 
legislation that we passed that the Republicans voted against.

So what we have is an accusation made by people who every time they 
have had an opportunity to take a concrete specific action that would 
help, have said no, have said no to the Enron loophole reform, have 
said no to The PUMP Act, have said no to stop buying in the strategic 
petroleum reserves.

So it leaves me with a question. Is what we are hearing about 
politics, or is it about policy? I have come to my own conclusion. But 
we are here on a bill that is going to help small business. That is our 
job. And our job in this rule should be to make that bill a better 
bill, not to hijack what is a good bill and turn it into a political 
food fight.

We have got two issues here that have been injected. One is, are we 
going to help small business or not? There is broad bipartisan support. 
The two committees of jurisdiction have done an excellent job.