# COMMENDING AGRI-BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT TEAMS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD FOR  THEIR EFFORTS IN WAR-TORN COUNTRIES
## `048e96f7eaa2b81d7540c18fdd3e4f65`
`Mr. KIND — 20 March 2010`

---


Mr. KIND. I thank my friend from Missouri for yielding the time. And 
I also want to commend my colleague who introduced the resolution. I 
was a proud cosponsor of this resolution.

On a previous trip to Afghanistan, I too had a chance to spend some 
time with the National Guard Agri-business Development Teams. And we 
can't thank our troops for the mission that they are carrying out in 
Afghanistan enough. And it is especially true for the citizen-soldiers 
that we send over there, our Guard and Reserve units. But the Agri-
business Development Teams are performing a very vital and important 
function in the development and assistance that is taking place in 
Afghanistan, a country which, after all, is an agrarian nation.

I am especially proud that one of the leaders in the National Guard 
is a gentleman by the name of Colonel Marty Leppert, who as a kid grew 
up on a dairy farm outside of Reedsburg, Wisconsin, in the heart of my 
congressional district. And I commend USDA and USAID, but especially 
our military leadership for recognizing the value of identifying our 
soldiers with agriculture backgrounds, and utilizing that expertise in 
the development of these ag development teams working with Afghan 
farmers. That is going to be the key to a successful resolution and the 
economic development that has to occur in that country.

I commend my colleague for offering the resolution.