---
---

# FRAUD ENFORCEMENT AND RECOVERY ACT OF 2009
## `049bc525d3659ef8198684efb8916900`
`Mr. INHOFE — 27 April 2009`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Again, I would say if anyone wants to come in and talk 
about this vote that is coming up, I will yield to them.
















 Guantanamo Bay


I seem to be involved in four missions right now and one of them 
happens to be the Guantanamo Bay detention facility. I have had 
occasion to be down at that facility right after 9/11 and then, of 
course, the other day I was there again. There are some very serious 
problems I think many Members of this body are not aware of. One is 
that when President Obama gave his excellent speech that was his 
inaugural speech, he recognized we need to determine what we are going 
to do with those who are currently detained at Guantanamo Bay and those 
who may come into that facility as a result of the escalation of 
activity in Afghanistan before making a determination that it has to be 
closed. Unfortunately, 2 days after he made that speech, he stated it 
was going to be closed and the prison would be closed within a year.

On February 2, I took a group down there with some Senators who had 
never been to Guantanamo Bay. All they could do on the way back is say: 
Why are we considering giving up this facility? In fact, shortly after 
that, I introduced legislation that would prevent any transfers of 
detainees from Guantanamo Bay to anywhere in the United States or its 
territories. The reason I did this is because while this has been used 
to detain some 800 al-Qaida and Taliban combatants, they are down right 
now to about 525 of those who have been tried and departed from Gitmo 
for other countries. Today, there are approximately 245 detainees left. 
This is the problem. These detainees--about 170 as near as we can 
determine--are very serious detainees such as Khalid Mohammed and 
others who were directly involved in the planning of 9/11. Many of the 
countries will not accept them back. They cannot be repatriated to any 
country; nobody wants them. So the choices are limited either to keep 
them at that facility or to figure out some way to put them in, as has 
been suggested, to some facility in the continental United States. They 
have talked about some 17 places that could detain these terrorists.

The problem we have with that is these would become 17 magnets for 
terrorism in the United States. I can't find one Member of the U.S. 
Senate--not one--who is willing to have any of these detained in his or 
her State. I often wonder what is this obsession that people have to 
closing this facility. It is kind of funny because it is one of the few 
good things that is out there--few good deals we have. We have had this 
facility since 1903. We are still paying the same amount of money--
$4,000 a year--for this facility, and it is the state-of-the-art place 
for the United States to take care of this type of detainee. Let's keep 
in mind that we also have a complex called the expeditionary legal 
complex located at Gitmo. It is about the only place of its kind in the 
world where you can try these cases. If you don't try them there, very 
likely they could find their way into our justice system. Of course, I 
think we all understand the rules of evidence are different in that 
facility than they are in our Federal judiciary system.

I had occasion to go to Fort Sill in my State of Oklahoma, which is 1 
of the 17 that have been named as possible areas for detention of these 
individuals.

Sergeant Major Carter was there, the one running the facility. She 
had occasion to be stationed for over a year at Guantanamo. She said: 
Why in the world would we give up that facility to send them down here 
to Fort Sill? First of all, we don't have the capacity to keep them in 
the various classifications in security that they do at Guantanamo. 
Second, she said that the ratio is 1 to 2 in terms of health care 
facilities. There is just one health care person in most locations, but 
there are doctors and nurses for each two detainees at Guantanamo Bay. 
We don't have anything like that at Fort Sill or Leavenworth or any of 
the other suggested places.

Consequently, they have studied and found and determined that never 
has there been a case of abuse in the way of human rights abuses with 
the detainees. There has never been a case of waterboarding or of any 
kind of torturing. Yet they are there, and nobody has been able to say 
why it is that they should be closed down.

What troubles me most is that the Obama administration seems more 
focused on closing Gitmo and protecting the rights of those detainees 
than on conducting the war on terror and protecting our country and our 
people from the terrorists currently held there.

It is interesting that Attorney General Holder went down to look at 
Gitmo to determine what we should do. He came back with a glowing 
report about the conditions. The Pentagon released a report stating 
that Gitmo meets the highest international standards, the very highest 
standards. Unfortunately, the Obama administration seems bent on 
closing Gitmo--I guess for political reasons. Yet I have not heard the 
reasons why it is that people are so obsessed with the idea of closing 
it down.

I think it is time for the Members of Congress to weigh in because as 
we look at the evidence and the problems, we have to find a place to 
put the detainees who are there. I say to my friend from Vermont, it is 
not just the 245 detainees currently there, it is the ones who are 
going to be there as a result of the surge. People say there are two 
prisons in Afghanistan, there is Bagram and Kandahar. The problem with 
that is, it is my understanding they will only accept detainees who are 
Afghan. You have others going from Saudi Arabia, from other areas, and 
there is no place else they can be put.

I think we have an opportunity there to have a place that is secure, 
with the highest standards. Again, the only alternative would be to put 
them in places where we have detainees--where we have other facilities 
in the United States.

In 2007, the Senate passed a resolution by a vote of 94 to 3. It 
stated that the detainees housed at Gitmo should not be released into 
American society, nor should they be transferred stateside into 
facilities in American communities and neighborhoods. That vote was 94 
to 3.

Madam President, I suggest to you that we will have the opportunity 
to call on those 94 Members, and certainly their constituents back 
home, who don't want to have them released and housed in any area other 
than Gitmo. My State of Oklahoma is not the only State where the State 
legislature has passed resolutions saying we don't want any of those 
detainees housed in our State. I think we will have an opportunity--
since the vote is taking place in a minute and my time has expired--an 
opportunity in the next few days, before any final action takes place, 
to allow the Members of both the House and Senate to express a very 
strong position that they don't want to have these detainees placed in 
any of the stateside facilities.

With that, I yield the floor.