---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `049f96bf99813309652015a083311192`
`Mr. PETRI — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chair, the Courtney/Petri/Matsui amendment would 
transfer the successful Troops to Teachers Program back to the 
Department of Defense and make important changes to the program to 
ensure it will continue to provide opportunities for veterans to 
transition into second careers as educators.

I have been a supporter of the Troops to Teachers program since its 
authorization in the 1994 Defense Authorization Act, and I am proud of 
its success in placing over 12,000 veterans in our Nation's classrooms. 
Troops to Teachers is a unique program that provides veterans with a 
$5,000 stipend to help cover the costs of obtaining a teaching 
certification in exchange for 3 years service in an eligible school. An 
additional bonus of $5,000 is available for teaching in a ''high need 
school.''

This structure has proven very effective in transitioning qualified 
retiring military personnel into second careers in teaching. Indeed, 
Troops participants fill several critical needs among educators: 80 
percent are male, over one-third are ethnic minorities, and a majority 
bring an expertise in science and math to the classroom. Furthermore, 
these troops also bring valuable life experience and character traits 
that are uncommon in our Nation's classrooms.

However, the success of this program is in jeopardy without the 
needed changes that are included in the Courtney/Petri/Matsui 
amendment. When the program was transferred to the Education 
Department, a simple drafting error in the 2002 No Child Left Behind 
Act resulted in an Education Department ruling restricting the number 
of school districts in which veterans can fulfill their teaching 
requirement. Since the implementation of this ruling in September 2005, 
retiring military have found the number of schools at which they would 
be eligible to teach drastically reduced.

The Department's new interpretation locks out schools in many rural 
areas and small communities. This is a shame, especially given the 
success of this program and its ability to meet some of our Nation's 
greatest teaching needs. In my own State of Wisconsin, only 11 out of 
426 school districts qualify for participants to fulfill their teaching 
requirements. A 2006 Government Accountability Report, GAO, of the 
program found that the 2005 ruling had reduced interest and 
participation in the program, as schools in regions where troops lived 
were no longer considered eligible.

Our amendment would correct this ruling and ensure that veterans 
participating in the Troops to Teachers program receive a $5,000 
stipend for teaching 3 years in any school that is in a district 
receiving Title 1 funds. This would result in a 49 percent increase in 
the number of schools eligible under the program. The amendment does 
not change the criteria for the additional $5,000 bonus, maintaining 
the incentive for troops to teach in the highest need schools.

Let me be clear, as the language of H.R. 3943 would provide, it is 
the intent of this amendment to strike ''high need'' from the stipend 
participation language in the Troops to Teachers statute. There was a 
late night drafting error that mistakenly did not delete the term 
''high need'' as was contemplated and is consistent with the language 
in H.R. 3943. So as this provision is finalized in conference, it is 
important that this technical change be made to implement the original 
intent of the amendment.

The amendment also makes the Troops to Teachers Program more 
accessible by reducing the length of service requirements for active 
military. The make-up of our military has drastically changed since 
this program was first authorized 16 years ago. Many of our young men 
and women returning from service in Iraq and Afghanistan who would like 
to pursue teaching careers are currently ineligible for the program.

Third, to ensure continued success of the program the amendment 
creates an advisory board charged with improving awareness, increasing 
participation and ensuring the program meets the needs of schools and 
veterans.

Earlier this year, Representatives Courtney, Matsui and I introduced 
H.R. 3943, the Post 9/11 Troops to Teachers Enhancement Act, that 
contains these needed improvements to the program. This bill has 169 
bipartisan cosponsors and the support of both military and educational 
organizations. These include: the American Legion, National Education 
Association, Association of the United States Army, Association of the 
United States Navy, Military Order of the Purple Heart, National 
Association of the State Boards of Education and many more.

Finally, our amendment transfers the Troops to Teachers Program back 
to the Department of Defense. Currently, the program is operated by the 
Defense Activity for Non-Traditional Education Support, DANTES. The 
Department of Education simply transfers funds to DANTES. Both the 
Department of Defense and the Department of Education support this 
transfer, which is reflected in the Administration's Fiscal Year 2011 
budget request.

I want to thank Representative Courtney and Representative Matsui for 
their work on this amendment, as well as both the Armed Services and 
Education and Labor Committees for their assistance. I urge my 
colleagues to support the amendment.