# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `049f50df835bcd4ea299a3eae054722a`
`Mr. McHENRY — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. McHENRY. Let me just say this. The largest tax increase in 
American history, that is really the backdrop of these spending bills.

The gentleman points out an interesting quandary, I must say. He says 
that Republicans are delaying the implementation of homeland security 
funding. The Department is funded through October 1. Beyond that, if it 
were important for us to put our priorities first, we would start, Mr. 
Chairman, with the Department of Defense, for national defense 
purposes. Instead, he's pulling a political game on us, Mr. Chairman, 
to simply say that we are harming national security because we're 
trying to restrain pork-barrel spending within this appropriation.

He actually points out a very important thing the American people 
need to understand. If the Democrats wanted to focus on priorities, we 
would have started with homeland security and national defense on day 
one. Instead, the new Democrat majority played politics with our troops 
in harm's way in Iraq and Afghanistan. They played politics with that 
funding, Mr. Chairman. They played politics for 100 days. And they're 
continuing to play politics with the funding for our troops in harm's 
way, Mr. Chairman. And we should oppose that.

And the American people are reacting to that. They don't want to 
defund our troops in harm's way. They don't want to do that.

I would ask my colleague from Texas, to, if he would, yield for 15 
seconds to the gentleman from Ohio for his comment or question, because 
that is much more generous than he did earlier. And I would love to 
respond to what he says or claims.