---
---

# None
## `04a11b81702b9ee443f877f2f9707c78`
`Mr. REID — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, some parts of the Iraq war are open for 
debate, but there is a lot we know for sure. These are the facts: 
Nearly 4,000 American soldiers have been killed, 30,000 wounded, and 
the wounds of a third of them are very serious. We have thousands and 
thousands of amputees, more than 3,000 double amputees, blind, hearing 
loss, head trauma that will affect them the rest of their lives. I 
talked this morning about a returning Iraqi soldier who has post-
traumatic stress disorder. He cannot work. He is losing his home. These 
are the facts. We still have 150,000 more troops in Iraq. News from the 
Pentagon is that there will be 8,000 more troops in Iraq in July than 
before the surge started.

GEN Colin Powell told us last year the Army is ''about broken.'' 
General Casey, Chief of Staff of the Army, confirmed what General 
Powell said. Yesterday, he said:




 The demand for our forces exceeds the sustainable supply.


General Casey basically confirms what General Powell said: The Army 
is broken.

The day before yesterday, on public broadcasting, there was a good 
report that dealt with ADM Tim Keating, commander of the Pacific 
Command, a huge command, and basically the whole report is how 
hamstrung he is in trying to do his job. He cannot do it anymore 
because, as indicated in the report, there are not enough resources 
anymore because they are all being shipped to Iraq and now some to 
Afghanistan. Those are the facts.

I had visiting me today some people who were so excited--Don 
Schneider,


who used to be president of a bank in Las Vegas and is now chairman of 
a board of trustees of an organization that is building a performing 
arts center in Las Vegas. One foundation gave as a start $150 million 
to the organization. They have raised $420 million. They need $50 
million more for this organization. I said to him: $420 million is how 
much we spend in Iraq in 1 day--1 day. That is what this beautiful 
performing arts center in Las Vegas costs.

Madam President, $400 million a day, 7 days a week. There are not 
weekends off. These are taxpayers' dollars we are borrowing. There are 
no holidays. New Year's, Christmas, Easter--it doesn't matter, we work 
right through, and another $400 million of taxpayers' money is 
borrowed. And the number is going up, not down. The world should 
understand that America has done its share.

I personally dispute the wisdom of going into Iraq. I said, and I 
have said many times, the worst foreign policy blunder in the history 
of this country is the invasion of Iraq. But we are there. When is 
enough going to be enough? How many more days spending $400 million are 
we going to need in Iraq? When is enough enough? Is 4,000 soldiers 
enough killed? Is 30,000 wounded? How many blind soldiers do we need?

No one disputes the heroic efforts of our troops, but as I indicated 
yesterday, my friend--I named my son after him, and he named his son 
after me. He used to be a model. He joined the military. He is a 
helicopter pilot. He served a tour of duty in Afghanistan, and he sent 
me e-mails about what he was doing over there. He came home, and I had 
dinner with him in Las Vegas. He was being shipped to Iraq. I don't get 
e-mails from him anymore. I asked his dad why. He said he wants to come 
home. All of them should come home is what he said. So he is not 
sending me e-mails anymore. He thinks I might be disappointed in him. I 
am not disappointed in him. He is a valiant soldier.

How much more do we need to do? When is enough enough? Five years of 
war, I guess, according to the Republicans, is not enough. We are going 
to start in a few days the sixth year of this war. When is enough 
enough?

Back here a number of years ago--it has been 5 years ago now--I met 
the Iraqi Governing Council. I can remember that meeting as well as if 
it was yesterday. We were in Senator Frist's office. The head of the 
delegation from Iraq said: I know people think we have the second 
largest supply of oil in the world, but that is wrong. We have the 
largest supply of oil. We have more oil than Saudi Arabia.

Iraq is a wealthy Nation. When is there enough American blood and 
treasure for Iraq? Can't this wealthy nation take care of itself?

The matter on which we are going to be voting in just a few minutes 
is not very complicated. This bill is to require a report setting forth 
the global strategy of the United States to combat and defeat al-Qaida 
and its affiliates.




 Section 1. Report on United States Global Strategy to 


 Combat al-Qaeda and Its Affiliates.



 (a) Report Required--Not later than 60 days after the date 


 of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, the 


 Secretary of State, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, 


 in coordination with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 


 Staff and the Director of National Intelligence, shall 


 join and submit to Congress a report setting forth the 


 global strategy of the United States to combat and defeat 


 al Qaeda its affiliates.


That is pretty simple and direct. That is what we are voting on. That 
is what the legislation is all about. Why would anybody be opposed to 
this legislation? It is straightforward legislation.

It is clear that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are not 
serious about any of this Iraq legislation. They had an opportunity to 
talk on it. As I said earlier today, it has been a good debate. They 
believe there still is not enough of American blood and treasure in 
Iraq. I do. The American people do. Twenty-five percent of Republicans 
believe we should be coming home from Iraq. This is not some Democratic 
idea; it is an idea of the American people.

How can they object to this matter on which we are going to vote in a 
few minutes? How can they not vote overwhelmingly for this legislation? 
If they had an honest reason to disagree with a report on the fight 
against terrorism, that would be one thing. That is not what is going 
on here. This is a stall that has been going on so that we will not 
have the opportunity to start the debate on a stimulus package dealing 
with housing.

Of course, we brought up these matters, and if they were allowing us 
to go forward with these pieces of legislation dealing with Iraq and 
have amendments like, of course, what has happened--but, no, motions to 
proceed, 30 hours. We broke the record last year in 1 year of a 2-year 
filibuster plan. They broke all records, and they are at it again.

Keith Olbermann, an MSNBC anchor, says at the end of every one of his 
telecasts:




 This is the 1,764th day since President Bush declared 


 ''mission accomplished'' aboard an aircraft carrier. We all 


 know the mission has not been accomplished. We all know we're 


 not safer today than we were when we began this misguided war 


 now five years ago. It's time to turn the page and begin to 


 rebuild a moral authority to address the growing challenges 


 we face throughout the world.
