---
---

# None
## `04a587d3e5927c7dbf5a862f3cc72d21`
`Ms. KILPATRICK — 24 January 2007`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the resolution. 
The Delegates vote in committees. They are assigned the task. They 
spend the hours, and they deserve the vote in the full House. There is 
no reason, except for an act in 1995 that caused them to lose that 
right to vote in committees, Committee of the Whole, and here this 
resolution talks about voting in the Committee of the Whole.

We need their vote. They are citizens of our country. They work, they 
pay taxes, they fight our wars. There is no reason that they would not 
be allowed, not just the Committee of the Whole, as was mentioned just 
earlier, they also need that final vote on legislation. When you fight 
wars, and we are in some now, and some of their people are fighting, 
they ought to be represented and have a voice in this Congress.

At the same time, and I don't want anybody to mistake, the District 
of Columbia, who has over 700,000 residents, more than some of our 
States who have two Senators and a Congressperson, not being allowed 
the right to vote? Something is very wrong with that in this country 
where we live. And I believe that this is the first step to regain what 
they lost earlier, but it is certainly not, I hope, the final step.

It is important as we go forward and as we acknowledge Congresswoman, 
as I call her, Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton, my good friend, 
Congresswoman Donna Christensen and the Representatives from Puerto 
Rico and Guam and Samoa Islands, that they fight our wars, they pay 
taxes in D.C., and they serve in our Congress. So I rise to support it, 
and Members of the Congressional Black Caucus take a unanimous position 
that we support this legislation. We ask for its immediate passage, and 
we come back and give D.C. statehood that they have earned and should 
have.

Citizens from Guam, American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto 
Rico and Washington, D.C. have paid taxes and have protected the 
Constitution of this country in our military. Some of our colleagues 
who have been fortunate enough to serve Americans in this august body 
have protected it as Members of Congress. It is now time for us to 
protect the rights of those citizens to at least be able to vote in the 
Committee of the Whole. It is a first step toward equity, equality and 
egalitarianism for so many people who have given so much but have 
received so little with regard to having a voting representative in the 
United States Congress.

Right here, in Washington, D.C., citizens were not allowed to even 
vote for President until the adoption of the 23rd Amendment to the 
Constitution in 1961, but which actually occurred in 1964. Right here, 
in Washington, D.C., citizens were not even allowed to vote for their 
own Mayor or local form of government until 1974. Right here, in 
Washington, D.C., as I face the setting sun, thousands of white 
tombstones, honoring some of the souls of individuals from Guam, 
American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and Washington, 
D.C. face us as immortals. These citizens, about six miles away from 
where I stand at Arlington National Cemetery, have paid the highest 
price for freedom any individual will ever pay. These citizens--hard-
working, women and men, some of whom have served and are still serving 
our country in Afghanistan and Iraq--two centuries and thirty-one years 
since the Declaration of Independence, do not have the right to full 
representation in Congress. I applaud my colleagues for beginning the 
process that, I hope, will ultimately allow the citizens from Guam, 
American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and Washington, 
D.C. full voting representation in Congress. This is but a small step, 
but it is a step in the right direction. It is right, it is just, and 
it is time.