---
---

# None
## `04aeeb0dbee8623260747f8ceefd9c10`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 9 April 2008`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Exactly. A lot of us are saying, it's time, 
that it is time to begin the drawdown, to begin to bring our troops 
home.

Many of us that believe it is time to begin the troop withdrawal, 
we're not talking about precipitous withdrawal. Our friends on the 
other side of the aisle like to, you know, they're really excellent at 
using strong language and scare tactics. And it's always interesting to 
listen to them try to exaggerate beyond all reasonable proportion what 
it is we're saying instead of actually listening to what we're saying. 
It would be nice if they would also listen to their own constituents 
because I have a feeling that they're not hearing anything different 
than what we're hearing when we go home, particularly when they are 
staring down the following facts:

Nearly 1.7 million U.S. troops have been deployed to Iraq and 
Afghanistan since September 2001; 1.7 million U.S. troops. That's 1.7 
million different individuals. More than 599,000 have been deployed 
more than once. More than 782,000 servicemembers, Mr. Ryan, have been 
deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan that are parents with one or more 
children. Forty percent have been deployed more than once. Nearly 
35,000 troops have been separated from their children for four or more 
deployments. And Mr. Ryan, I talked a little bit about that 6-year-old 
boy that I met when I went to Walter Reed whose dad had missed half his 
life. And I also talked about the toll that those separations from 
their families take on the parent who is gone, but particularly on the 
parent who is home, holding the fort down, making sure that they can 
move their children's lives and their lives forward by themselves and 
the stress that that brings on a family and on a marriage. The 
statistics that we know about say that, according to the Center for 
American Progress, 20 percent of marriages of deployed troops are 
headed for a divorce right now based on a


survey done by the Center for American Progress. According to a report, 
again by the Army's Mental Health Advisory Team, work-related problems 
due to stress, mental health problems and marital separations generally 
increase with each subsequent month of the deployment. So the length of 
these deployments is taking its toll on families.

An estimated 2,100 troops tried to commit suicide or injure 
themselves last year, which is up from 350 in 2002. That's an 
astronomical jump. I mean, we've got the facts right under our noses. 
When do we say that we care about these troops as people, not as 
fighters, not as defenders of America, but as people? And when do we 
recognize that there is a limit to their ability to hold down their 
lives and to be able to return to a quality of life that they had 
before they left? The insensitivity is mind boggling, and the refusal 
of this administration to recognize that there is a cost and a toll 
that is being taken on these families, on the individual troops, on the 
United States of America and on our economy.