---
---

# None
## `04bfb64d9306715639c50fa4b3df9c4e`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 26 January 2010`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I want to share some thoughts on an 
amendment that Senator McCaskill and I offered earlier today. I note 
that a number of people are anxious to vote and finish up. If and when 
that time comes, I will be pleased to yield the floor. The amendment we 
offered, which would place statutory caps on spending--and that cap 
level that we picked was in our budget. It is what the Senate passed in 
the budget last year. It represents an increase each year, which is 1 
to 2 percent annually. This is a budget number basically passed by our 
Democratic colleagues.

So what we are saying is, let's adhere to that. If we adhere to that 
level of spending, then we can begin to make progress.

A similar type of statutory cap was placed in 1990, renewed in 1997, 
helped lead us to the only 4 years of budget surpluses in recent 
memory, from 1998 through 2001. After that, the statutory caps were 
allowed to expire. We find this was something that actually worked to 
help us contain excessive spending. This amendment would say that 
number that is in the budget for the next 5 years would be firm. We 
would put it in statutory language, but, of course, it can be exceeded 
by a two-thirds vote of the Senate, and the statute itself can be 
reversed by 60 votes of the Senate. It is not something that 
constitutionally would be firm over managing our system. It is 
consistent with previous actions of the Congress. It worked, and I 
believe it will work again.

It has been contended today, I understand, that these caps would 
impose limits on emergency spending that could potentially cripple our 
ability to respond to emergencies, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, and 
terrorist attacks.

Well, I just want to say that hurricanes and earthquakes and things 
of that nature have had huge bipartisan votes for emergency spending. 
For example, after Katrina, there were two supplemental emergency bills 
passed. The first was passed by unanimous consent. Nobody objected to 
it. It was unanimous. The second was passed on a rollcall vote, 97 to 
0. There is no doubt in my mind that if we have a serious emergency, we 
will have a lot of support for responding to that emergency.

Also, one week after September 11, the Senate unanimously passed 
supplemental appropriations in response to that terrorist attack. So 
the allegation that somehow this would cripple the ability of Congress 
to respond to emergencies is inaccurate.

Second, it was contended earlier today that the amendment contains 
unrealistic spending caps that would restrict funding needed to support 
our forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.

That is not accurate. The amendment includes specific provisions that 
prevent the caps from restricting funding for our troops in a time of 
war. It would not block us from doing that. We are in a time of war. It 
just would not apply in a time of war.

We hear it said that everybody is concerned with the growth of the 
deficit and the need to control debt in the United States, but this 
amendment--the McCaskill-Sessions amendment--is not the appropriate way 
to attack this issue.

Let me respond to that. For fiscal year 2010, the government spent 
$2.9 trillion, of which about $1.2 trillion was for discretionary 
spending. The remaining $1.7 trillion was mandatory spending. That is 
what we call entitlements. That is when you get 65 and you are entitled 
to Medicare, and the government has to pay it whether it has any money 
or not. You are entitled to Social Security payments, and the 
government has to come up with the


money. We don't vote on it again. We already voted on Social Security 
to set up how much money you are entitled to get. We have to have that 
money. That is why it is called an entitlement.

Now entitlements--Medicare and Social Security--exceed the 
discretionary account, which includes defense. So of the $1.2 trillion 
that is in the discretionary account that we actually vote on each 
year, approximately $526 billion, or a little less than half, is for 
nondefense purposes.

This amendment attempts to reduce the deficit by constraining just 18 
percent of total government spending. It can make a much larger 
difference than many people realize. Five-year discretionary spending 
caps were passed--what we are proposing today--in 1990 and 1997 with 
strong bipartisan support. In 1997, 44 currently serving Senators 
supported the caps, and 26 of them were Democrats. It made a 
difference. We balanced the budget in 1998 through 2001--4 years. The 
current majority leader and chairman of the Appropriations Committee 
both voted, in 1990 and in 1997, for the 5-year caps, which restricted 
annual discretionary spending to approximately 1 to 2 percent 
increases. That is basically what our legislation would do. It would 
contain this discretionary spending to 1 to 2 percent.

We know we are out of control. We know that last year discretionary 
spending increased by 10 percent, and this year it will increase by 12 
percent. That is unsustainable. At 7 percent growth, your money will 
double in 10 years. At 12 percent growth, the amount of money we would 
be spending in our discretionary account would double in 6 years--
double. We are on an unsustainable growth here. Some say: Where do you 
come up with this money, Sessions? This limit of 1 to 2 percent is too 
tough.

It is not too tough. It is the budget we voted on. Actually, I didn't 
vote for it, our Democratic colleagues voted for it. It was their 
budget, and it passed with almost unanimous Democratic support. It 
calls for a 1- to 2-percent increase in spending over the next 5 years. 
That is all Senator McCaskill and I are suggesting we should do. We 
would make that harder to bust, harder to break it. We put in a firmer 
cap. If we stay on that level, and if we have an emergency, we will 
have to meet it. But if we stay at that level, we could end up 
surprising ourselves how much good we can do in the years to come.

From fiscal year 2006 to 2009, the Federal debt was increased by 
approximately $4.4 trillion. That is a lot. That is almost the total 
debt of America. We had about $4 trillion in debt in 2006, and we 
added, in those 3 years, $4.4 trillion. During that time, the total 
increase in nondefense discretionary spending was approximately $93 
billion. This means the increase in nondefense discretionary spending 
has accounted for 2 percent of the increase in the national debt, our 
critics say. So it doesn't make much difference, they would say. They 
are correct about the surging debt, but not that this would make no 
difference. If it made little difference, then why are they worrying 
about passing it?

Restraining discretionary spending, like we did in the nineties, is 
the bear minimum Congress can do to be fiscally responsible, in my 
view. For fiscal year 2010, nondefense, nonveteran discretionary 
spending increased by 12 percent and in 2009 by 10 percent. Those are 
huge increases, not including the stimulus package. If we included the 
stimulus package, nondefense discretionary spending has increased 57 
percent since 2008, in 2 years.

That is a stunning number. We actually increased discretionary 
spending by 57 percent in 2 years. The Sessions-McCaskill amendment is 
similar to the proposal offered by President Obama or what we are 
hearing he is going to offer--to freeze nondefense discretionary 
spending for 3 years. This would place a cap on excess. If we break 
through the President's suggestion and don't freeze and go above that, 
we hit this cap, and it would take a two-thirds vote to go above that.

Apparently, President Obama's suggestion is less spending than this 
bill would cap. But that is fine, we can always do less. The danger, 
from my experience, is that we get carried away and do more.

Some have said the arbitrary spending caps would impede the delivery 
of resources needed to keep Americans safe from terrorist attacks and 
violent crime. Such subjective across-the-board restrictions would 
hinder our ability to protect our homeland and secure our borders.

Well, it does allow for an increase, first and foremost. Second, our 
congressional process and appropriations process and authorization 
process should have helped us set priorities within that. It would be 
unthinkable if this Congress were to somehow take all that money that 
we need from areas to keep us safe from attack. Surely, we can make 
judgment decisions about that.

Another allegation is that more and more of our service men and women 
are returning from the battlefield, and this would restrict our ability 
to provide them the medical care and support they need.

This measure provides all the funding in the 2010 budget resolution. 
It would allow that. If additional resources are needed to care for our 
returning service men and women, and that has bipartisan support, and 
certainly if we need to be able to take care of injured and wounded, we 
could get 67 votes. We can do like most people do when they have a 
necessary expense. They trim spending somewhere else and fund the more 
necessary item.

Some have said it would impose a roughly $10 billion annual cap on 
emergency spending. Emergency spending is, by its very nature, 
impossible to predict. The critics say, to deliberately impede the 
government's ability to respond to a natural disaster or major 
terrorist attack is deeply irresponsible. But that is not what we do. 
In the legislation we proposed as an amendment, Senator McCaskill and I 
set up a $10 billion a year emergency fund--every year. That would be 
incorporated in the budget resolution, it would be contained in our 
amendment, and it would be restricted only by the normal 60-vote 
requirement on a budget point of order for emergency spending. That 
money would not be subject to a higher point of order, and it would not 
change up to the first $10 billion--which is a lot of money.

Alabama's budget, including education, is about $7 billion. So we are 
setting aside $10 billion for emergency funds every year, and if we 
went above that, we would have to have a supermajority for the kind of 
emergency that would justify that.

I do not think that criticism is valid. Also, some have said that 
recent history clearly demonstrates the folly of attempting to fix a 
set price for future emergencies.

More than 4 years later, the Gulf Coast is still recovering from 
Hurricane Katrina. Over $100 billion in Federal resources has been 
needed to respond to this disaster alone.

Our amendment would have no effect on Hurricane Katrina. The fact is, 
as I have said before, we have had virtually unanimous votes supporting 
funding for Katrina. I do not think that is a valid criticism. If we 
have an emergency, I am confident this Congress will meet it.

The recent Christmas Day airline bombing--I see my friend, Senator 
Leahy. Is he seeking the floor to speak? If so, I will try to wrap up.