# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `04c80a8d931ab9dde25f6aa8512d166b`
`Mr. GINGREY — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the ranking member for 
yielding. He would make a great Commander in Chief.

Mr. Speaker, I also want to salute my close friend and chairman of 
the Armed Services Committee, Chairman Ike Skelton. I hold him in the 
highest regard and I admire him dearly, though I must oppose his bill 
and encourage my colleagues to do the same.

Mr. Speaker, let me be very clear. This bill does not seek to clarify 
our objectives or a path to victory. It does not offer an alternative 
to the current plan being implemented by General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker.

Nowhere to be found are any new ideas or solutions or any talk of 
curbing violence or compelling political reconciliation. Why? Because 
there is no pressure on the Democrats to put forth any meaningful 
ideas. They know that this bill is dead on arrival. The President has 
vowed to veto it, and rightly so. This is a defeatist measure that 
serves only to placate the Democrats' liberal base.

Mr. Speaker, a few things about this plan immediately jump out to me. 
According to this legislation, a date certain withdrawal is to commence 
120 days after the enactment of this bill. So why then does the bill 
wait another 2 months before asking the President to formulate a 
strategy? It is like asking a quarterback to throw Brother Ben passes 
until the offensive coordinator can come up with a game plan.

Essentially, this bill says that after our troops have packed their 
bags and have begun to come home, or maybe to deploy to Okinawa per the 
Murtha plan, then we will receive this master plan detailing how to 
provide for the security interests in Iraq.

As a physician, that is akin to calling a patient in for surgery 
before you have done the exam, yanking somebody's heart out before you 
have inspected the coronaries. In short, Mr. Speaker, it is a recipe 
for disaster.

Mr. Speaker, the last troop surge deployed just 3 weeks ago, hardly a 
significant time period for us to be here today judging the plan. 
However, I do believe Congress should engage in an ongoing, rational 
dialogue outlining the expectations of both our troops and the Iraqi 
Government and the security forces. Nobody is here suggesting that we 
shouldn't. And we will do it in September when we get the Petraeus 
report based on that report. But, Mr. Speaker, we cannot capitulate to 
extremist views and sinister plans, which is what this bill would do by 
sending a message to the terrorists that capitulation begins in 120 
days.

I urge my colleagues, oppose this bill.