---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF KOREAN AMERICANS
## `04cbdafce144ba018eb1243e4e740d1d`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 16 January 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the 104th 
anniversary of the arrival of the first Korean immigrants to the United 
States, which is this Saturday, January 13, 2007. This date also marks 
the annual celebration of Korean American Day as designated by the 
Centennial Committees of Korean Immigration and Korean Americans.

Korean Americans have thrived in the United States since their 
arrival in the Hawaiian Islands in 1903. The contributions of Korean 
Americans to our society are found in nearly every community across our 
country and span the fields of arts and entertainment, economics, 
medicine, science and religion, among many others. Many Korean 
immigrants have established successful new businesses, have risen to 
assume important civic leadership roles within their communities, and 
have developed pioneering, lifesaving medical procedures.

In the early 1950s, thousands of Koreans, fleeing from war, poverty 
and desolation, came to the United States. The trend of Koreans 
immigrating to the United States continued in the years to come. In the 
1960s, President John F. Kennedy lifted the United States security 
clearance requirement which restricted travel to and from Guam. The 
lifting of this security clearance requirement enabled immigration to 
and international investment on Guam from Korea and other countries in 
Asia.

Koreans began to establish residence on Guam as early as the 1970s, 
and in the 1980s many new Korean families arrived on island to 
establish a new beginning in America. Today, Korean Americans are an 
integral part of our island family. On this day, we celebrate the 
richness of their culture, their traditions, their achievements, and 
their contributions to our community. To that end, I also want to 
recognize the Korean Association of Guam. The Association serves as an 
important support group for new immigrants from Korea, and through its 
efforts, the professional and civic interests of the Korean American 
community on Guam are preserved and advanced.

The contributions of Korean Americans are found not only in Guam, but 
also in every community across the United States. Korean Americans are 
key contributors in the economic, medical, academic and religious 
fields. Notably, at least 4,000 Korean Americans serve in the United 
States Armed Forces. Many of these servicemembers have completed tours 
of duty in the Global War on Terrorism or are deployed in Iraq. Whether 
they are serving as leaders in their communities or fighting alongside 
their fellow Americans in defense of our country, Korean Americans have 
demonstrated their significant presence in and contributions to the 
United States.

I wish to express my heartfelt support for the greater Korean 
American community on the occasion of the 104th anniversary of the 
arrival of the first Korean immigrants to the United States. In doing 
so, I also take the opportunity to recognize the growth and 
contributions of the Korean Association of Guam, which was established 
to advance the professional and civic interests of Korean Americans in 
our community. Today, the Korean Association of Guam serves as an 
important welcoming support group for new immigrants from


Korea. Through the continued efforts and contributions of Korean 
Americans, the ties of United States with Korea will be strengthened in 
the years to come.
