---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `04d866323c064710556ce0b808c81232`
`Mr. HONDA — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. HONDA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my thoughts on the 
two pieces of the $183.9 billion emergency supplemental appropriations 
bill that the House is considering today.

Last year, I joined nearly ninety of my colleagues in the House in 
sending a letter to President Bush pledging that I will only support 
appropriating additional funds for U.S. military operations in Iraq 
during Fiscal Year 2008 and beyond for the protection and safe 
redeployment of our troops out of Iraq.

The supplemental bill the House will vote on tonight does not include 
a number of important policy provisions regarding the war originally 
included in the bill that was sent to the Senate. These important 
provisions called for the responsible redeployment of U.S. troops from 
Iraq and required that troops begin to withdraw from Iraq within 30 
days of the proposal becoming law, with a goal of completing withdrawal 
by December 2009.

I am disappointed that the supplemental bill we are considering today 
does not include these provisions, and instead provides $162 billion 
more for this disastrous war, without conditions.

I have heard and read the frustrated thoughts of many of my 
constituents who are simply tired of President Bush's war. They 
understand that we have spent an inordinate


sum of tax dollars fighting a war that should have never been waged. 
They understand that our economy is suffering as a result of our 
resources being poured into this war. Tonight, I will vote against 
continuing to fund this open-ended war.

However, Mr. Speaker, I remain in strong support of the second 
amendment to this supplemental appropriations bill, which will fund 
important domestic priorities. This domestic measure includes a new GI 
bill to restore full, 4-year college scholarships to veterans of the 
Iraq and Afghanistan wars to help make them part of an economic 
recovery like the veterans of World War II. It also includes an 
historic extension of unemployment insurance benefits and assistance to 
disaster-stricken areas in the Midwest where unprecedented floods have 
occurred. The number of Americans looking for work has grown by 800,000 
over the last year, and the number of American jobs has declined by 
260,000 since the beginning of 2008. Both of these measures are 
beneficial to our country, extraordinarily meaningful to our veterans, 
and will address the current economic struggle we face. As a 
representative of Silicon Valley, the hub of high technology in 
America, I am also happy that this amendment contains a modest amount 
of funding to help partially address the budget shortfalls facing the 
agencies that support our Nation's research and development efforts.

Mr. Speaker, I am disappointed that the amendment funding the war in 
Iraq is without strings or conditions, but more than pleased to 
prioritize our Nation's urgent priorities in the second amendment to 
this appropriations bill. We must continue to invest in a positive 
future for our country.