---
---

# NATIONAL SERVICE REAUTHORIZATION ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `04e6ecbd2628da0060d49329f6619493`
`Mr. DURBIN — 24 March 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, next week, the Senate is going to 
consider the budget resolution for fiscal year 2010. This may be one of 
the most important debates of our time. For 50 hours on the Senate 
floor, we are going to debate making a fundamental change in our 
economy.

We need to face the facts. This President and this country have 
inherited the worst economic crisis in 75 years, and I do not 
exaggerate. No President has faced this kind of a challenge. We see it 
every day in the jobs that are being lost, the businesses that are 
closing, the homes going into foreclosure. We watched as our savings 
accounts dwindled during the decline of the stock market. Retirement 
plans are being changed. Children are coming back from college because 
families are worried about making the payment for their expenses. 
Fundamental decisions about homes, cars, and future expenditures are 
being withheld because of the uncertainty of our economy.

Passing the economic recovery package that President Obama sent our 
way was the first step to getting this economy back on track, but it is 
not the last thing, it is not the only thing. The next step is to pass 
a smart, fair, responsible budget that makes the economy work again. 
This is not a separate item. This is a continuing effort that Congress 
needs to make, joining with President Obama, to show we are serious 
about putting this economy back on its feet.

The President has proposed a budget that accomplishes that. It 
restores fairness for middle-class families, it reestablishes 
responsibility in the budgeting process, and it makes some smart 
investments in America's future.

This budget begins to repair years of neglect in fundamental national 
priorities. It makes critical investments that we need for the economy 
to recover, particularly in the areas of energy, education, and health 
care.

The President has proposed a return to the balance our country once 
enjoyed--careful investments in the future while protecting working 
families who have lost ground over the last decade. If we fail to make 
a number of critical investments now, it is going to be tougher for 
America's economy to get back on track.

Many experts tell us that in order for our country to fully recover, 
we have to take a leading role not only in the Nation but in the world. 
We need to lessen our dependence on foreign oil and develop renewable 
energy sources that reduce costs and create jobs.

America still remembers well $4.50-a-gallon gasoline when those 
overseas who send us the oil decided they would squeeze us, and they 
did, and we couldn't say anything about it because we have become so 
dependent on foreign sources.

We also know that the way we consume energy is affecting the world in 
which we live. We know that global warming is a reality, climate change 
is a reality, and if we do not use different practices and different 
approaches with energy, we may leave our kids more than a national 
debt; we may leave them a planet which is uninhabitable in some places.

We also know we need to make it more affordable for Americans to 
extend and improve their education so they can reach their maximum 
potential and compete for good jobs in an increasingly competitive 
global economy. And we need to address health care costs. Whether it is 
an individual or a family or a business or a State or the Federal 
Government, the escalating cost of health care will break the bank no 
matter what the President's policies might be. We need to address it. 
President Obama has had the courage and I think the vision to say that 
has to be part of our agenda.

This budget allows for critical investments in health care. The 
President's budget will begin the transformation of our health care 
system by allocating more than $630 billion over 10 years for 
fundamental health care reforms. How many times have we started this 
discussion and stopped it? Realizing the health care system in America 
needs dramatic reform, we find ourselves embroiled in debate and at the 
end of the day have nothing to show for it. President Obama stepped up 
in his budget and said: We are going to put the investment on the table 
to extend health care protection to those who do not have it and make 
it more affordable for those who do. He made that investment in his 
budget.

The budget would also support the adoption of health information 
technology and the widespread use of electronic health records. The 
Veterans Administration does this. Because they have electronic 
records, they can make a better diagnosis for a patient, they can avoid 
errors that might occur while someone is hospitalized, and they can 
reduce costs. We should do that for our health care system across the 
board.

The budget also expands research that compares the effectiveness of 
medical treatment so that patients and physicians have better 
information on what works and what doesn't.

It would invest $330 million training doctors, nurses, and dentists 
we need to fill shortages of health professionals, especially in rural 
communities.

It would invest over $1 billion to step up food safety efforts at the 
Food and Drug Administration to prevent the kinds of outbreaks of 
contaminated food we have seen recently, the most recent being peanut 
butter, but before that a long list of outbreaks in food safety that 
concern Americans and their families.

This has been an issue I have pushed for a long time in the House and 
in the Senate, to try to coordinate our food safety effort in 
Washington so we can get more for our dollar and protect more families.

These investments will come when we need them. Over 47 million 
Americans do not have health insurance today--47 million people who 
woke up this morning realizing they were one accident or one diagnosis 
away from wiping out their savings. One million families in my home 
State of Illinois, a State of 12.5 million people, have at least one 
uninsured family member, including 360,000 of those families who earn 
more than $50,000 a year. They earn 1,000 bucks a week and do not have 
health insurance.

If you look at the cost of health insurance, you can understand. For 
some families, even $50,000 a year makes it difficult to protect 
everybody. Being uninsured is no longer only the concern of the poor. 
In fact, the poor are taken care of in our Medicaid Program. It is a 
risk for many of us, many middle-income families. Members of Congress 
are pretty lucky. We get the same health care protection that Federal 
employees receive. It is the best plan in the Nation. But my people in 
my home State are not that fortunate.

Let me tell you about a fellow in Springfield, my hometown. Doug 
Mayol, since 1988, has owned a small business in downtown Springfield. 
He sells cards, gifts, and souvenirs. He is fortunate that his only 
employee is over 65 years of age and qualifies for Medicare and also 
receives spousal benefits from her late husband. If this were not the 
case, Doug does not think he could possibly provide health insurance 
for his only employee.

As for himself, Doug knows, because he has a preexisting condition, 
that he faces the real possibility of becoming uninsured. Almost 30 
years ago, Doug was diagnosed with a congenital heart valve defect. He 
has no symptoms. But without regular health care, he is at great risk 
of developing serious problems.

Like most Americans, his health care premiums have risen dramatically 
in recent years. In 2001, he paid $200 a month for health insurance in 
Springfield, IL. In 2005, he paid $400. And after he turned 50 years of 
age last year, his rate shot up to $750 a month. He has a


little business. It is hard for him to pay that.

To keep his insurance affordable, he chose a smaller network of 
providers and higher deductible, which brought the cost down to $650 a 
month. Then last year, the payment jumped again to over $1,000 a month. 
Only by taking the highest deductible has he been able to bring that 
cost down to $888 a month.

Think about that for a minute. That is $10,000 a year that this small 
business operator faces for basic health insurance with a high 
deductible, and he isn't even a costly patient. With his high 
deductible, the insurance company has never paid a claim for illness or 
injury beyond routine care. Yet his costs have exploded.


He cannot afford not to have health insurance. Because of his faulty 
heart valve, he needs antibiotics before undergoing even a simple 
procedure, such as dental work.

Although Doug should see a cardiologist periodically, he avoids it. 
He fears it would add another red flag to his medical record. Think 
about that for a second--avoiding basic medical care for fear it will 
raise the cost of health insurance. That is a reality for a lot of 
people in America.

Why, in this wealthiest Nation on Earth, do we accept a system such 
as this, where a small businessman with insurance has to delay 
preventive care simply to avoid short-term costs, even though the long-
term costs, if something awful happens, will be far greater?

All Americans want the best health care system in the world. Yet we 
all know that reform is not easy. The process will be complicated. We 
will have to compromise. And we will have to work together. But we have 
to start by laying the foundation. President Obama's budget does that.

The President's budget also has a promising vision for education. The 
budget provides funding for innovations in the classroom, improved 
student assessment, improved teacher training, principal preparation, 
programs that reward teacher performance, and a significant expansion 
of early childhood education. Is there one of these we would question 
if it were our child or grandchild heading off to a school? We would 
want all of this as part of the curriculum, as part of the schoolday 
for that child to excel.

These initiatives will help build America's education system so we 
can compete globally, and the budget will also change the way we 
finance higher education. It would finally end the Federal Family 
Education Loan, FFELs. This is a program that has proven to be 
outmoded, expensive, inefficient, subject to corruption, and a bad 
choice for students. A lot of us have known this for a long time.

The first person to warn me about this program was the late Senator 
Paul Simon of Illinois who retired 13 years ago. It certainly has been 
an unfortunate situation.

The current student loan FFEL program was an unfortunate choice for 
Holly Clark from Chicago. Holly wanted to be a teacher. To pay for 
college and graduate school, she borrowed over $60,000 in student 
loans. Think about that. She chose this FFEL program because she 
thought it would lock in low interest rates until she could pay off the 
loans.

Because of fluctuating interest rates and changes in the program, she 
now pays 7/1/2/ percent interest each year. That is higher than she 
pays for her home mortgage.

Holly heard about a Federal program that encourages teachers to work 
in a low-income school for 5 years by forgiving a portion of the debt. 
She taught for 4 years in an inner-city school, but then the school 
administrators left and the school became extremely unsafe. She left 
that job. She still has her loans, and she is not sure what she is 
going to do to repay them without giving up her teaching career.

That is not what we need. We need young people who will submit 
themselves to teaching, not walk away from it. We can do better for 
Holly Clark. The FFEL program has proven to be costly for taxpayers and 
sometimes unfair to borrowers. The President's budget shifts the 
origination of student loans to the Federal Direct Loan Program 
starting in July of next year. We take the middleman out. We take the 
banker out of the picture because they are taking a profit. That change 
saves taxpayers $94 billion over the next decade. The banks are going 
to squawk. The people who have these programs are going to be upset. 
They are going to hire the best lobbyists they can get their hands on 
and come and stand out in the hall and beat on us when we come in to 
vote. But I hope we remember Holly Clark when we are making these 
decisions and not the folks with the Gucci loafers out in the hallway.


This budget will also make spending on Pell grants mandatory, freeing 
this essential student aid program from the political process indexing 
the grants to inflation.

We cannot transform our education system overnight into a world-class 
system unless we prepare our young people with the best education.

On the issue of energy, the President's budget also provides a 
downpayment on weaning America from our dependence on foreign energy. 
The President lays out an aggressive path to reduce the consumption of 
fuels that contribute to climate change. Left unchecked, scientists 
predict global warming will lead to more heat waves and droughts over 
the next century, will result in lower agricultural productivity, 
threaten coastal areas with rising waters, increase severe storms and 
flooding and reduce biodiversity. These are real changes, some of which 
will be irreversible. We have to find a way to address this 
responsibly.

President Obama's budget proposes a cap-and-trade system to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions. We can reduce emissions by 14 percent below 
2005 levels by the year 2020, and by 2050 we can cut emissions by 83 
percent below 2005 levels.

Some say that is not realistic. They also said President Kennedy 
putting a man on the Moon was not realistic. We can do it if we have 
the political will and the guidance of a good President and the 
cooperation, bipartisan cooperation of Congress.

The revenue generated from auctioning greenhouse gas emission 
allowances would be used to fund tax credits for working families and 
programs to green the economy and $150 billion over 10 years to develop 
clean energy technology that would create jobs. If this budget had 
already passed and funding were already available, Lee Celske of Aledo, 
IL, might have been able to put a small portion of that funding to good 
use. He has figured out how to create green temporary houses out of 
recycled glass--pretty cheap, as low as $30,000 in some cases--quick to 
assemble, and he thinks they are a good option for communities 
recovering from natural disasters. These are energy-efficient temporary 
homes that can withstand a category 5 hurricane.

The factory that makes the houses would employ 30 high-tech, high-
paid, green-collar workers. Over the last 14 months, Lee has presold 
nearly $2 million worth of houses, relying on loan guarantees from his 
bank that would underwrite the factory once sufficient sales were in 
place.

But then, suddenly, the bank pulled out. Lee has done nothing wrong. 
The idea is sound. The small company is ahead of its schedule on growth 
targets and it would create precisely the kind of green jobs America 
needs. Yet his progress has been stopped by a freeze in the credit 
markets. The President's budget would help finance these entrepreneurs 
in the green economy.

This budget could create good jobs. It is a smart investment for our 
future. That is what the President brought to us in the stimulus 
package. This budget can create good jobs. It is a small investment for 
the future. That is what the budget continues to bring to us.

There is another element that is important. For too long the Tax Code 
has favored the wealthiest people in America. At a time when working 
families, middle-income families are struggling to get by, they were 
not getting the tax breaks. That was the old way of thinking. That was 
old politics, old policies. The President's way of thinking is to reach 
out to provide a tax cut for every American family earning less than 
$250,000 a year. Ninety-five percent of Americans will not see their 
taxes increase a single penny under the President's budget. After 8 
years of stagnant wage growth for the middle class, with costs for 
health care, education, and utilities going up, with the unemployment 
rate above 8 percent and growing, and with as many as 13 million 
families


at risk for losing their homes, American families need a break. This 
budget would do that.

I have listened to a number of my friends on the Republican side of 
the aisle criticize this budget. They say it spends too much, taxes too 
much, we have to borrow too much. They are ignoring the obvious. This 
President is committed to cutting the deficit in half in his first 4-
year term. When President Bush was elected, he inherited a surplus from 
President Clinton, a surplus in the budget. It had been a 2-year 
surplus and it was reducing the debt of programs such as Social 
Security. We were moving in the right direction. Our national debt that 
we an accumulated over the history of the United States to that moment 
when President George W. Bush took office was about $5 trillion. So the 
President, George W. Bush, came in with a $5 trillion national debt 
that he had inherited from George Washington until his moment in 
history and he inherited a budget surplus.

What happened over the next 8 years? Sadly, under President Bush, we 
saw the national debt of America more than double in 8 years. The 
accumulated history of the United States had produced $5 trillion in 
debt. The 8 years of the Bush administration more than doubled that 
debt. President Bush took the surplus of the Clinton years and brought 
us to the biggest annual deficits in American history.

Many of those who supported the President's approach, many of those 
on the other side of the aisle who voted for his budgets--many who 
stood in defense of President Bush when he said I don't want to count 
the cost of the war; we will set that aside; we will call it an 
emergency; we will not put it in the budget--are the same people who 
made that excuse for 7 years during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan 
under President Bush. They saw the accumulated cost of those wars 
exceed $700 billion and none of it was in the budget. None of it was 
accounted for. Many on the other side said that was acceptable.

They also supported the President's idea of tax cuts, tax cuts for 
some of the wealthiest people in America. Taking these things off 
budget, tax cuts for the wealthy--what happened? We ended up with the 
worst deficits we had seen in our history. That is what this President 
inherited. Now that he has promised to reduce the size of our deficit 
by half in his first 4 years, many on the other side are standing and 
saying we are destined now for bankruptcy. Where have they been for the 
last 8 years? Some of the harshest critics of the President's budget 
were giving a stamp of approval, year after year, to President Bush's 
budget.

What President Obama is doing is an honest budget, a responsible 
budget that moves us toward reducing the deficit in a time when the 
economy is in a sorry situation.

I think that is important. I think it is important we come together 
on a bipartisan basis to pass that. As to those who think this budget 
borrows too much, this President is on the right track of reducing the 
deficit. They have been on the wrong track for a long time. These are 
policies that they have offered before that did not work. They are 
yesterday's policies, yesterday's politics. It is time for something 
new. It is time for real change. Preparing the budget is about making 
choices and President Obama's budget is a document that makes the right 
choices. It is a document that is fair, giving tax breaks to working 
families, putting money into investments so their children can see a 
brighter future. It is a budget that is responsible. It puts the cost 
of the war online in the budget so we can track it as part of our real 
debt. It is a budget that also makes smart investments in America's 
future.

It is not just a matter of creating a job, a make-work job. This 
President's vision is to create the kind of jobs in energy and new 
energy for the 21st century; in education, so our kids can compete in 
this century, and to make sure our health care system is one that gives 
us quality care at the lowest cost. That embodies three sensible goals 
that we in America share.

This budget would bring true long-lasting change to America, and I 
certainly encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to look 
long and hard at this budget, realize the good-faith effort President 
Obama is making with this budget, and join him in charting a course of 
spending for the next 4 years that will move us out of this recession, 
create jobs and businesses and give America a smart investment for our 
future.

I yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.