---
---

# EXPRESSING SYMPATHY FOR VICTIMS OF CAMP LIBERTY SHOOTINGS
## `04fc5e4991e8fa4689c1f5a5f8a85821`
`Mr. KRATOVIL — 2 June 2009`

---


Mr. KRATOVIL. I yield myself as much time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to call attention to a tragedy our Nation 
experienced on Monday, May 11, 2009, at the combat stress clinic in 
Camp Liberty, Iraq, when a soldier reportedly killed five innocent 
American servicemen and wounded three others.

The shooting resulted in the tragic loss of Navy Commander Charles K. 
Springle, Army Major Matthew P. Houseal, Army Sergeant Christian E. 
Bueno-Galdos, Army Specialist Jacob D. Barton, and a native of my 
district


and Maryland's Eastern Shore, Specialist Michael E. Yates.

This resolution expresses heartfelt condolences to the families and 
friends of the victims of this tragic act, and it conveys Congress' 
ongoing deep gratitude for all of the brave members of our Armed Forces 
who have risked their lives in the service of our Nation. This 
resolution also recognizes the important work of medical professionals 
and staff who provide essential mental health services to servicemen 
and women at Camp Liberty and at other clinics both in theater and at 
home.

Now is the time to give increased attention to the mental health 
challenges faced by the courageous members of our Armed Forces, 
especially given our Nation's protracted military engagements in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. Our servicemen and -women and their families make 
extreme sacrifices each day in order to keep our Nation safe. Honoring 
our commitment to those who serve our Nation means not only offering 
first-class medical care for physical injuries but also in providing 
first-class mental health services.

Congress must commit to focusing on both the mental and physical 
well-being of the Nation's active military as well as of its veterans, 
and it must commit to supporting the policies, resources, and funding 
necessary to successfully combat the mental and physical health care 
challenges that they may confront.

As a result of this tragic accident, Maryland's Eastern Shore lost a 
native son in Specialist Michael Yates of Federalsburg. Growing up on 
the Eastern Shore, Michael was an avid hunter and fisherman. Like many 
of my constituents, he held a deep love for his country and a desire to 
serve in the defense of freedom. At the young age of 17, Michael joined 
the Army. He was then sent to Fort Knox, Germany and then to Iraq where 
he served as a cavalry scout. Michael had recently returned to 
Federalsburg where he was able to visit with family and friends one 
last time before returning to Iraq and ultimately to the counseling 
center at Camp Liberty.

It was here that a fellow soldier, whom Michael had described to his 
stepfather as a ''fairly decent guy who had some major issues,'' 
reportedly shot and killed Michael.

We must make soldiers' and veterans' mental health a priority and 
heed Secretary of Defense Gates' recommendation to support funding for 
traumatic brain injury and psychological health exams for our 
servicemen and -women.

We owe this to Specialist Yates, to Commander Springle, to Major 
Houseal, to Sergeant Bueno-Galdos, and to Specialist Barton, as well as 
to the friends and families of those involved in this tragic event.



We owe this to each and every brave soldier and their families who 
make sacrifices daily and face the intense stress that comes with the 
defense of our Nation.

House Resolution 471 was introduced along with fellow colleagues who 
lost constituents in this incident honoring their service and 
recognizing mental health issues among servicemen and veterans. I urge 
all of my colleagues to support this resolution in honor of the those 
who lost their lives and all who serve in our Armed Forces.

I reserve the balance of my time.