---
---

# THE PROGRESSIVE CAUCUS: D.C. VOTING RIGHTS
## `05038e9dc2f498d50a0669f4b3b07bc6`
`Mr. NYE — 12 March 2009`

---


Mr. NYE. I want to thank my colleague very much for yielding to me.

I am rising today to express my strong support for a resolution this 
House passed yesterday by unanimous vote, Mr. Speaker, the resolution 
urging the President to designate 2009 as the ''Year of the Military 
Family.'' And while no words or gestures can fully match the service or 
sacrifice of our soldiers and sailors, our airmen and Marines, we must 
also remember those Americans that do not wear a uniform: our military 
families.

In my home district of Hampton Roads, we know all too well that the 
challenges faced by our military families are not just financial. They 
are emotional and physical too. Men and women in my district wake up 
every day not knowing if their loved ones are safe, not knowing when 
they will return, or what scars they might bear when they do.

Dealing with that and explaining it to your children with a smile on 
your


face is not easy, and it must never be overlooked. These hardships are 
not limited to our active duty military families. The families of Guard 
and Reserve members also confront regular absences for training, and in 
the years since 2001, more and more families have seen their loved ones 
deployed overseas to Iraq and Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to working closely with Chairman Skelton, 
who introduced the resolution, and with all the members of this House 
to support our military families.

I again thank my colleague for yielding.