---
---

# IN MEMORY OF PATRICK D. DEANS
## `050a0973f2473c0cfe449a6ff402bee7`
`Mr. MICA — 18 December 2010`

---


Mr. MICA. Madam Speaker, I rise today in memory of Patrick D. Deans 
who was killed in military action December 12, 2010 in Afghanistan, 
Kandahar Province. This 22 year old youthful Army soldier and his 
family lived in and near the 7th Congressional District. Patrick was 
raised in the St. Cloud area and I never had a chance to meet him. 
Because he did not reside in my congressional district at the time of 
his death I was not officially notified of his passing. I read about 
Patrick's life and his service and his death in our local newspaper.

When I read what this young soldier wrote in his Facebook posting on 
November 10th, one month prior to his being killed in a suicide bomber 
attack, I felt compelled to include his words and some of his life 
story in the Congressional Record. In his commentary Patrick said, ''A 
veteran is someone who, at one point in their life, wrote a blank check 
payable to the United States of America for an amount up to, and 
including their life. That is beyond honor and there are way too many 
people in this country who no longer remember that fact.''



What an incredible statement and prophetic observation from this 
young man and hero. Before his sacrifice of his own life he clearly 
realized the commitment he had made to his Nation and also mentioned a 
reality of how military service and sacrifice is often forgotten by 
people and public officials. I believe it's important on not only 
Memorial Day and Veterans Day and now during the holidays and in fact 
every day that we remember the sacrifice of Patrick D. Deans and 
thousands of other men and women who have paid the ultimate sacrifice 
so that we can live as a free people.

Patrick grew up in East Orange county Florida and moved to Narcoossee 
and east Osceola where he attended Harmony High and played football. He 
later resided in East Orange County and graduated in 2006 from Timber 
Creek high school where he was a member of Air Force ROTC Program.

Patrick joined the Army in 2007 and served as an Infantryman until 
his deployment. His awards and decorations include: Army Commendation 
Medal, Army Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, 
Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, Global War on 
Terrorism Service Medal, Army Service Medal and Overseas Ribbon. He was 
posthumously promoted to corporal.

He is the only child of Patrick M. Deans, a corporal with the Orange 
County Sheriff's Office, and Robyn Deans of Seminole County Florida.

Along with my colleagues in the United States House of 
Representatives I extend my deepest sympathy to Patrick's family and 
the eternal gratitude of our Nation.
