# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `050ce381998370a7bed58c87e85dd8fe`
`Ms. CLARKE — 16 February 2007`

---


Ms. CLARKE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in unwavering support of our 
troops. I support our troops who are stationed around the globe and, 
particularly, those stationed in harm's way in places like Iraq and 
Afghanistan. That is why I wholeheartedly support H. Con. Res. 63 which 
disapproves


of the President's decision to deploy more than 20,000 additional 
combat troops to Iraq, because support of our troops means I must vote 
to move them out of harm's way.

This 110th Congress debate marks the beginning of the end of the U.S. 
invasion and occupation of Iraq and a realignment of our strategy 
utilizing America's might against the war on terror.

Mr. Speaker, we now know that nothing said in justification of this 
war was fact. It was all fiction created by this administration to 
justify the unjustifiable.

Our military service men and women are doing their duty. They have 
accomplished their mission. They have brought Saddam Hussein to 
justice. Remember, ''Mission Accomplished.''

This administration has distracted us from the real war on terror, 
the war with al Qaeda. When are we going to bring Osama bin Laden to 
justice?

In Afghanistan, U.S. Central Command General Tommy Franks, the war's 
operational commander, misjudged the interest of our Afghan allies. He 
ran the war from Tampa, with no commander on the ground above the rank 
of Lieutenant Colonel. The first Americans did not arrive until 3 days 
into the fighting.

It is noted that Osama bin Laden slipped through the cordon 
ostensibly placed around Tora Bora as U.S. aircraft began bombing on 
November 30, 2002. More precisely, bin Laden was in Tora Bora on 
November 26, 2002, spoke to his fighters about the fight being a holy 
war, then, as quickly as he had come, bin Laden vanished in the pine 
forest with four of his loyalists walking in the direction of Pakistan.



Bin Laden escaped somewhere between November 28 and November 30, 
2002, in Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, 5 years ago, Department of Defense Secretary Paul 
Wolfowitz said, ''He,'' meaning Osama bin Laden, ''doesn't have a lot 
of good options.'' Obviously, that was false.

Further, it was reported that the administration pays bin Laden no 
attention, and that is evidenced by the fact that official reports no 
longer identify Osama bin Laden as a threat. The administration 
anticipated that they would have bin Laden erased by September 11, 
2002. They failed at that mission.

Again, the failure of this administration to get the job done, to 
secure our homeland, and to get the man who masterminded the attacks 
upon us and continues to recruit and train al Qaeda agents is parallel 
to the failures of the mission in Iraq. The administration did not plan 
to fail; they failed to plan.

I support the men and women who put their lives on the line for our 
liberty. I am indebted to them, the sacrifices that they have made, and 
that is why I support this resolution. We must redeploy and make 
preparations to leave Iraq today.

As the representative of the 11th District from New York, I and my 
constituents deeply resent the lies and deceptions thrust upon us to 
justify this war by creating a distraction away from homeland security 
we all require as an inalienable right. The fire that I witnessed that 
refused to die was stamped out by the resilience of New Yorkers, 
Americans who believe in our democracy and the ultimate victory of good 
over evil.

The question I have and the question of the people from New York and 
the rest of America wants answered is: When will Osama bin Laden be 
brought to justice?

Thanks to the failed policies of this administration, Iraq is now in 
the midst of a civil war. Due to the lies and deceptions, the civil war 
in Iraq is now raging. We must redeploy our troops now. Thus far, there 
are 135,544 troops deployed in Iraq today.