# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `0513da7b339eed17c3aa078cb4c17d06`
`Mr. DINGELL â€” 5 October 2007`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Chairman, I have followed with interest news reports 
from Iraq documenting some of the terrible atrocities that have been 
committed at the hands of military contractors hired by the United 
States. I have been keenly interested in the recent congressional 
hearings that have been held on this matter. Based on what I have 
learned, I am pleased today that the House of Representatives is 
considering this bill, which would ensure that those who do business 
with the United States Government in Iraq can be held accountable when 
they commit criminal acts. Unfortunately, I cannot be present for the 
vote today, but I wanted to ensure I submitted this statement of 
support so the record will reflect that I am strongly in favor of the 
goals of this important bill.

This bill is a fair and sensible way to ensure that military 
contractors can be prosecuted for their criminal actions in a U.S. 
court. This is important both because it gives the government a way to 
police the behavior of these contractors, and also because it shows the 
Iraqi people that the United States is serious about the rule of law. 
While I am glad Congress is taking this action now, I remain concerned 
about the Bush Administration's failure to take steps to investigate or 
prosecute those who committed wrongdoing in the past. I believe 
Congress should continue to investigate these incidents and ensure that 
those responsible are held accountable.
