# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `051503bfe1f76efbb577a8e379fa108b`
`Ms. FOXX — 15 February 2007`

---


Ms. FOXX. Thank you, a true patriot, Mr. Johnson.

Madam Speaker, I rise today not only in support of the brave men and 
women of the American Armed Forces, but also in support of the cause 
for which they fight. They heroically give of themselves every day to 
ensure the safety of our Nation and the freedom that we Americans 
enjoy.

Like my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I want America's 
troops home as soon as possible, but disengaging at this time would 
invite the terrorists to follow us home. This resolution sends the 
wrong message and will have grave consequences. It will demoralize our 
troops and embolden our enemies. We are combating a global adversary 
who sees an enemy in any Nation that supports the ideals of freedom. In 
the interest of democracy, global safety and rural peace, victory in 
Iraq is absolutely crucial.

While some seem happy to complain about the war, they have offered 
nothing in the way of a solution to defeat the jihadists. It is fine to 
disagree, but your opinion holds little weight if you fail to offer a 
constructive alternative. Leadership takes strengths and courage to 
succeed in the face of adversity, although mistakes may be made along 
the way.

Many comments have been made by those who support this resolution, 
but one that deserves a response is the oft-repeated phrase that this 
is an impossible war to win. What a terrible attitude for Members of 
the United States Congress to have.

What if George Washington had succumbed to the critics of his day who 
said those things? What if Abraham Lincoln, FDR and President Truman 
had taken that attitude? Where would we be now? We are here today 
because people who came before us refused to listen to the naysayers 
and the defeatists.

The true leaders of this Nation have always focused on the possible 
and accomplished it. These people remind me of the attitude of the 
Carter administration in dealing with Iran.

Let me quote a recent article by Dinesh D'Souza. '' . . . they are 
willing to risk the country falling into the hands of Islamic radicals. 
Little do the people waging 'the war against the war' know that in 
exchange for a temporary political advantage, they are gravely 
endangering America's security and well-being, ultimately even their 
own.''

Let us band together as Americans, put aside political differences to 
show that we understand the need to defend freedom for the long and 
short terms. This is the decisive battle of our generation, and this is 
a defining moment of our time.

We cannot afford to lose and should vote ''no'' on this resolution







 [From the American Legion Magazine, Feb. 2007]



 How We Lost Iran--And Why We Can't Afford Another Loss in Iraq














(By Dinesh D'Souza)




 There are four important Muslim countries in the Middle 


 East: Iran, Iraq, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. Islamic radicals 


 control Iran, and have since the Khomeini revolution a 


 quarter century ago. Now they have their sights on Iraq. If 


 they get Iraq, we can be sure they will target Egypt and 


 Saudi Arabia. Let's remember that this is a region upon which 


 the United States will continue to be oil-dependent for the 


 foreseeable future. If the Islamic radicals succeed, the 


 American way of life will be seriously threatened.



 To understand the high stakes in Iraq, it's helpful to 


 understand what happened in Iran a generation ago. How did 


 America ''lose'' Iran, and how can we avoid another debacle 


 in Iraq? Islamic radicals have been around since the 1920s, 


 but for decades they were outsiders even in the Muslim 


 countries. One of their leading theoreticians, Sayyid Qutb, 


 argued that radical Muslims could not just promulgate 


 theories and have meetings; they must seek to realize the 


 Islamic state ''in a concrete form.'' What was needed, he 


 wrote, was ''to initiate the movement of Islamic revival in 


 some Muslim country.'' Once the radicals controlled a major 


 state, he suggested, they could then use it as a beachhead 


 for launching the takeover of other Muslim countries. The 


 ultimate objective was the unification of the Muslim 


 community into a single Islamic nation, governed by Islamic 


 holy law.



 In 1979, Qutb's goal was achieved when the Ayatollah 


 Khomeini seized power in Iran. Muslim scholar Hamid Algar 


 terms the Khomeini revolution ''the most significant event in 


 contemporary Islamic history.'' It was an event comparable to 


 the French or the Russian revolutions. Virtually no one 


 predicted it, yet it overturned the entire imperial structure 


 and created a new order, even a new way of life. The mullahs 


 restored the Islamic calendar, abolished Western languages




 from the schools, instituted an Islamic curriculum, declared 


 a new set of religious holidays, stopped men from wearing 


 ties, required women to cover their heads, changed the 


 banking system to outlaw usury or interest, abolished 


 Western-style criminal and civil laws, and placed the entire 


 society under sharia, or laws based on the Koran.



 The importance of the Khomeini revolution is that it 


 demonstrated the viability of the Islamic theocracy in the 


 modern age. Before Khomeini, the prospect of a large Muslim 


 nation being ruled by clergy according to 8th-century 


 precepts would have seemed far-fetched, even preposterous. 


 Khomeini showed it could be done, and his successors have 


 shown that it can last. To this day, post-Khomeini Iran 


 provides a viable model of what the Islamic radicals hope to 


 achieve throughout the Muslim world. Khomeini also 


 popularized the idea of the United States as a ''great 


 Satan.'' Before Khomeini, no Muslim head of state had said 


 this about America. Muslim leaders like Nasser might disagree 


 with the United States, but they never identified it as the 


 primary source of evil on the planet. During the Khomeini 


 era, there were large demonstrations by frenzied Muslims who 


 cursed the United States and burned its flag. For the first 


 time, banners and posters began to appear all over Iran: 