# None
## `0527c5083269e62ee3bbcf52aa3deab7`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, we have been in this fight 
over timetables, and so many of us believe that we have got to start 
setting a deadline on when the Iraqis are going to have to stand up for 
themselves. Okay, so we passed that, and the President vetoed, and we 
came back and said, all right, let's talk about something a little bit 
less than that. Let's talk about what you outlined.

Let's give you all the money you want and more for the next several


months for the conduct of this war, and then after that's done, let's 
see if it's working. That's a revolutionary concept here. Before we 
authorize the next round of several dozen billion dollars for the 
conduct of this war, let's just ask some questions. Is it working? Are 
the Iraqis doing what they need to do to achieve a political 
settlement? And guess what, the message is to that idea as well, that's 
not acceptable either; it is going to get a veto just like the first 
one.

There was a word that was just lost here for a long time. You and the 
30-somethings talked about it night after night, but it was a foreign 
phrase to people and it is accountability. It is accountability.

Guess why the Iraqis consider going home for the summer? Why the 
parliament thinks it is okay to stand down? Because they know they have 
a crutch to rely on. They know that the Americans will be there as long 
as they continue to refuse to stand their military up, to stand their 
political institutions up, to stand up their ministries.

They know that, in fact, we're going to reward their incompetence. 
Enough is enough.

I got to spend a couple of days there, and in addition to spending 
some time with the troops you get to spend a little bit of time with 
the Iraqi military, and you can see that there's potential there. You 
can see that they are ready to do this mission but you can also see 
that there's no incentive there to do it right now.

And so that word ''accountability'' which has been lost here for so 
long is I think a large reason for why Congress looks a little bit 
different now, why you have a whole bunch of new Members who were sent 
here, not just to wrap up this war, not just to bring our troops home 
but to also instill in this government a sense that if we are going to 
spend taxpayer dollars, we better have some accounting for how it is 
done.

The two bills that we have passed, both the first bill that set a 
timetable to wrap up this war; the second bill, frankly, is as 
reasonable as you can get in trying to provide some benchmarks for 
success, they are both about that missing word missing here for a long 
time. It is accountability.