---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `054d3671aa1081d26b5618cb540de9cc`
`Mr. DUNCAN — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. DUNCAN. Mr. Chairman, I first want to commend Chairman Oberstar, 
Ranking Member Mica, Chairwoman Johnson, with whom I spent so many 
hours. She was my ranking member during the entire 6 years that I had 
the privilege of chairing the Water Resources and Environment, or 
during part of the time that I chaired the Water Resources and 
Environment Subcommittee, and such a good friend, and Ranking Member 
Baker, for bringing this bill to the floor today and for their good and 
hard work on this legislation. And I urge its support.

This is a very conservative bill, Mr. Chairman. It is a bill that 
passed this House with only eight dissenting votes a few years ago and 
then later only 14 dissenting votes. The bill passed with over 400 
votes in favor of it each time in the House. We did our work, but then 
it got held up in the other body.

Some people say that these projects should be paid for entirely on a 
local basis. But I can tell you there is a very important Federal role 
in regard to our water resources because people in California or New 
York or Michigan use the water in Tennessee. And people expect us to 
have a good wastewater and clean water system in this country. And yet 
it is something that people take for granted probably more than 
anything else that I can think of. And we have got to improve and 
strengthen our water resource system in this country.

Over the last few years, we have spent many billions on the water 
system, our wastewater and clean water systems in Iraq. But we have 
fallen down at the Federal level on what we are doing on our wastewater 
and clean water systems in this country. And most of the spending has 
been done by the State and local governments and particularly by the 
ratepayers. And so this is a very necessary, very overdue bill, as many 
have pointed out. And I urge support for this legislation.