---
---

# THE BUDGET, DEBT AND THE BLUE DOG'S IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY LEGISLATION
## `05540ad3ce5e07223aaeca35cc735362`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, we are gathered here this evening 
to talk about the budget, to talk about the debt and to talk about the 
Blue Dogs' Iraqi accountability legislation. This is a very, very 
important time for us, and we hope that this hour will be illuminating 
and be very informative for everyone.

We are accustomed having my good friend, Mike Ross, in this position. 
Mike Ross is from Arkansas, and, as we know, there was a tornado that 
went through there. Mike Ross and a group of us just came back 
yesterday from Europe. Mike Ross had to jump on a plane and go down to 
Arkansas to see about his constituents, and we want to make sure that 
we send our prayers down to the folks in Arkansas.

Of course, Mike knows that we stand ready to help in every way we can 
to make sure that they get the services that they need. So we are here 
to carry on.

We have a great lineup and array of Blue Dogs here tonight to carry 
on and to talk about the budget, we want to talk about the debt, we 
want to talk about our Iraq resolution that we have before us, and the 
whole issue of accountability.

Mr. Speaker, as we get started, I want to call your attention to our 
chart. As you know, one of the hallmarks of the Blue Dogs is fiscal 
responsibility and accountability. Let's look at the national debt and 
what it is today.

If we look at it correctly, it is now $8.773 trillion. The share for 
each individual in this Nation is $29,000, and it continues to go up. 
We want to talk about that tonight. The Blue Dogs have a plan. We want 
to talk about our 12-point plan to bring down this debt. It is one of 
the most horrendous areas that we have to deliberate on.

We want to get started with some of our Blue Dogs that are here. 
First, I


want to recognize our distinguished cochair from the great State of 
Tennessee, Representative Cooper. I yield to the gentleman.