# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `05589b0814f0c7581a564e25245c1caa`
`Mr. INHOFE — 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I thank the Senator very much for the 
time.



















Iraq


Madam President, before getting into this bill, I want to comment 
that last week when I was there--it was my 14th time to be in the AOR 
of the Middle East and where the conflict is--the progress that is 
being made there is incredible. I sat here and I heard a couple 
Senators talk about how bad things were there and that we are losing 
and all this.

This is the first time--I remember a year ago in Ramadi they actually 
declared Ramadi was going to be the al-Qaida capital of the Middle East 
or the terrorist capital of the Middle East. Right now, it is 
completely changed. IEDs are down 81 percent. Attacks are down 74 
percent. Then, next door at Fallujah, they are now totally under the 
security of the Iraqi security forces.

So all these good things are happening there. I wish Members of this 
Senate would go over there and see for themselves instead of trying to 
use it politically to advance their careers. You are doing a great 
disservice to our troops over there.

But that is not why I am here in the Chamber.

I appreciate the comments that have been made by the Senator from 
Alabama. I agree with everything he has said. My concern is at 2 a.m. 
on Saturday morning is when all this came up. We did not have any way 
of knowing exactly what was in it. Yet I am concerned about all sorts 
of things, such as how do you make a Z visa work.

But the reason I want to have a little time right now is because I do 
have an amendment. It is my understanding I will be able to call up 
this amendment for consideration after the Senator from North Dakota 
has his up, and that will be later this afternoon.

My amendment is the English amendment. Those Members on the floor can 
remember a year ago I got an amendment adopted that made English the 
national language for the United States of America. It passed by a vote 
of 62 to 35. There are some extremist groups that opposed it and, quite 
frankly, some of the liberal Members of the Senate were afraid to vote 
for it without having a backup where they could negate it. This is what 
happened. They voted for my amendment.

The amendment is very simple. It says there is not an entitlement for 
language, other than the English language, to be given to people who 
want Government services. Very simple. That is the same way over 50 
other countries, including Ghana in West Africa, have it.

The Presiding Officer knows I have spent a lot of time in Africa on 
some of the same programs she has been involved with, and most of the 
countries in sub-Saharan Africa--the ones that speak English--all have 
English as their national language. Thirty states have it as their 
national language, but not we in the United States of America.

There is going to be an effort on my part to get this in the bill, 
and I am going to use the same text I had last time.

It is interesting when you hear different Presidents talk about this 
issue. In 1999, in his State of the Union Address, President Clinton 
said:




 Our new immigrants must be part of our one America . . . 


 that means learning English.


Everyone said ''hooray,'' and then he came along with an executive 
order right after that which did away with that statement completely.

President Bush said:




 The key to unlocking the full promise of America is the 


 ability to speak English.


We know how many States have adopted this. The polling is incredible. 
A 2006 Zogby poll reported 84 percent of Americans--I have polls 
showing up to 91 percent--said English should be the national language. 
And 77 percent of Hispanics polled by that Zogby poll said the same 
thing. This poll was in 2006, only a year ago, demonstrating how many 
Americans believe English should be our national language. Establishing 
English as a national language should not be viewed as a partisan 
issue. It is widely supported throughout the country.

In this Congress, in this immigration debate, I am again offering my 
amendment to make English the national language. My amendment would 
accomplish three things. No. 1, it would establish English as the 
national language of the United States of America. No. 2, it would 
establish that the official business of the Federal Government should 
be conducted in English, and eliminates all of the entitlements people 
would have for language other than English. Now, it does respect 
current law. For example, we have the Court Interpreters Act. The Court 
Interpreters Act is necessary to support the sixth amendment, the right 
to counsel, and we are making sure this doesn't affect that in a 
negative way.


So we create no restriction of providing materials of other languages 
and allow certain exceptions where it is specifically mandated by 
statute. We made that very clear.

My amendment does not prohibit the use of other languages. However, 
my amendment states:




 There is no entitlement to individuals that Federal 


 agencies must act, communicate, perform, or provide services 


 or materials in any language other than English.


So it is hypocritical that the immigration legislation we are 
considering now contains a section generally recognizing the importance 
of English. However, this section 702 of this immigration legislation 
does not establish English as a national language.

Now, we had this debate. We were on the Senate floor and debating 
this about a year ago right now, and people were hesitant to vote 
against it. We had every kind of excuse in the world. They came 
trotting in here with State flags that had foreign languages on them 
saying: We would have to do away with all of these State flags.

It has nothing to do with that. We are talking about entitlements.

We had one Member come in and say: You are going to be responsible 
for the deaths of Hispanics.

I said: Explain that.

This Member on the Senate floor, right down here, said: Well, you 
know, they have some bad currents down in


the Potomac, and we have ''no swimming'' signs that are written in 
Spanish. If you don't have those, then people are going to drown.

This has nothing to do with that. You can put up any kind of sign you 
want that is in the best public interest.

We had one Member come down and say: You would never be able to speak 
in Spanish on the floor of the Senate.

Well, that has nothing to do with it. I have made a few speeches in 
Spanish, and there is a reason for it which I will not go into now. But 
these are things that people say are problems and things that just 
don't hold up.

Now, I think it should be pointed out--because a very good friend of 
mine was on a television station this morning, and I know this 
individual would not have said what he said if he were aware of the 
truth, but let me just bring this out. A year ago, when I had my 
amendment, which would do essentially what the amendment will do if it 
is passed today, Senator Salazar from Colorado came up with an 
amendment right afterwards. In fact, we voted on it in a matter of 
minutes after we voted on mine, 62 to 35, and his passed also. All his 
did was offer language that is totally different from mine.

For example, I am going to read his. It didn't say English is the 
national language, it says it is a common language.




 Preserving and Enhancing the Role of the English Language: 


 The Government of the United States shall preserve and 


 enhance the role of English as the language of the United 


 States.


But listen to this:




 Nothing herein shall diminish or expand any existing rights 


 under the laws of the United States relevant to services or 


 materials provided by the Government of the United States in 


 any language other than English.


There it is, folks: ''Nothing herein shall diminish or expand . . .'' 
In other words, it is going to continue to be the same.

Now, there are a lot of people out there who are going to be looking 
at this amendment. Americans are clamoring to have this done. They 
don't understand why we don't do this. I don't understand it either. 
But this language is found in the current immigration bill.

Down here under ''definition'' in section 702, which was in the 
language that was put in 2 minutes after my vote took place a year ago, 
it says:




 For the purposes of this section, law is defined as 


 including provisions of the United States Constitution, the 


 United States Code, controlling judicial decisions, 


 regulations, and Presidential Executive Orders.


Now, this is a very significant one because what you hear about quite 
often is President Clinton's Executive Order No. 13166 entitlement, 
which offers entitlement to translation in any language of your choice, 
anyone who receives any Federal funds. Well, that completely opens the 
door for every possible language. A lot of people think we are only 
talking about Spanish. That is not correct. That Executive order refers 
to any language at all. This bill we are considering that I will oppose 
has language in there that would codify that Executive Order No. 13166, 
and I think it is one that people have to understand.

The Senator from Alabama is not back, so I will take a little bit 
more time. I am going to read the language now that is actually in the 
amendment which says English shall be the national language of the 
Government of the United States: The Government of the United States 
shall preserve and enhance the role of English as the national language 
of the United States of America, unless specifically provided by 
statute.


Now, I use as an example the court interpreters law, existing law 
right now. It says, unless specifically provided by statute, no person 
has a right, entitlement, or claim to have the Government of the United 
States or any of its officials or representatives act, communicate, 
perform, or provide services or provide materials in any language other 
than English. If an exception is made with respect to the use of a 
language other than English, the exception does not create a legal 
entitlement to additional services in that language or in any language 
other than English.

Forms--it says:




 If any form is issued by the Federal Government in any 


 language other than English, or such form is completed in a 


 language other than English, the English language version of 


 the form is the sole authority for all legal purposes.


Again, there is one sentence in there that says:




 Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of language 


 other than English if it is codified into law.


That is what we use the Court Interpreters Act for, and a few others, 
where there is a constitutional reason--in this case it is the sixth 
amendment to the Constitution--for having that language in there.

So what I will do until the Senator from Alabama returns is mention a 
few other things I think are significant. This is not a new issue. This 
is an old issue, and the old issue goes back to many years ago, to 
President Theodore Roosevelt in the 1900s:




 Let us say to the immigrant not that we hope he will learn 


 English, but that he has got to learn it. He has got to 


 consider the interests of the United States or he should not 


 stay here. He must be made to see that his opportunities in 


 this country depend on his knowing English and observing 


 American standards. The employer cannot be permitted to 


 regard him only as an industrial asset.


Now, that was President Theodore Roosevelt in 1916. I could go 
through--we have them all the way up, including Ronald Reagan and other 
Presidents. Later on, I will go over the polling data. Later on, if we 
have a chance to present this and debate this amendment, I am going to 
go over all the polling data. You cannot find any polling data that 
says less than 84 percent of the American people want to have English 
as the national language.

So even LaRaza, an extremist, leftwing group, says they found in a 
2004 poll that LaRaza did, 97 percent strongly--86 percent--97 percent 
that is strongly or somewhat agreed that the ability to speak English 
is important to succeed in this country. That is the extremist group. 
In other words, if you want to be an attorney or a doctor instead of a 
busboy, you need to learn the language.

Now, I see the Senator from Alabama is back, but let me just repeat 
the one thing that I think is very important because so many of our own 
Members--Republicans and Democrats--believe somehow this bill 
positively addresses the problem or it makes English the national 
language. I am going to go ahead and tell you that when they put 
section 702 in instead of my language, section 701, all they said is 
English is a common language in the United States. Big deal. But it 
says in here:




 Nothing herein shall diminish or expand any existing rights 


 under the laws of the United States relative to services or 


 materials provided by the Government of the United States in 


 any language other than English.


Well, there it is, I say to my friend from Alabama. Nothing in here 
would diminish or expand. In other words, it is going to stay like it 
is today. But then it goes on to say--and this is the critical thing--
all the criticism of President Clinton when he passed Executive Order 
No. 13166, which was an entitlement for a translator in any language 
you want other than English, or the language of your choice if you are 
a recipient of Federal funds. So that definition, if we pass this 
bill--which I don't think we are going to, and which I don't want to 
for many other reasons--but if we pass it, we would say for the 
purposes of this section of law, the law is defined as including 
provisions of the U.S. Constitution, the United States Code, 
controlling judicial decisions, regulation, and Presidential Executive 
orders. In other words, we are codifying this very Executive Order that 
so many people in America find so offensive.

So I think this is an opportunity to put this in. Quite frankly, I 
think unless the bill would be dramatically changed, I still wouldn't 
support the bill, but we need to have every opportunity we can, when we 
are addressing problems with immigrants or legislation of this nature, 
to make English the national language. Ninety percent of the American 
people are for it, 77 percent of the Hispanics are for it, and I am for 
it.

I thank my colleague very much for his time, I say to the Senator 
from Alabama, who has done a great job.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.