---
---

# DISABLED VETERANS HOME IMPROVEMENT AND STRUCTURAL ALTERATION GRANT  INCREASE ACT OF 2009
## `056402d99c27756e6d80cceda3a29af1`
`Mr. FILNER — 27 July 2009`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the ranking member of our 
committee, Mr. Buyer of Indiana, for introducing this bill.

In the past, many of our veterans have returned from combat with 
life-changing injuries and illnesses. Congress saw fit to provide 
special adaptive grants to help them improve their quality of life. 
Today, another generation of servicemembers is returning from the wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan with even more egregious life-changing injuries 
and illnesses due to the development of better equipment and body armor 
that keeps them alive, albeit seriously injured.

The bill provides for a long overdue increase in the amount payable 
to veterans for improvements and structural alterations to their homes. 
This amount, Mr. Speaker, has not been increased for 17 years. The bill 
would increase the grant amounts from $4,100 to $6,800 for veterans 
with a service-connected disability and from $1,200 to $2,000 for 
veterans with nonservice-connected disability. Importantly, Home 
Improvement and Structural Alteration grants, called HISA, are the only 
grants available to nonservice-connected veterans and those conditions.

HISA grants can be used in conjunction with other adaptive housing 
grants offered through the Veterans Benefits Administration to help 
cover some of the additional costs a veteran may be facing when 
building or adapting a home to meet his or her unique needs. We owe it 
to our veterans to keep pace with the many different needs and 
challenges that they face on a daily basis. Seventeen years is a long 
time to wait.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1293.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.