# COMMEMORATING THE ARMY RESERVE ON ITS 100TH ANNIVERSARY
## `057052dbf5d8b0e3fff735d060225e48`
`Mr. BISHOP of Georgia — 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today, along with 
Representatives Buyer, Shimkus, Taylor, and over 243 original co-
sponsors, to introduce a resolution to congratulate the United States 
Army Reserve on its 100th Anniversary, which will be formally 
celebrated on April 23, 2008.

The resolution also commemorates the contributions of Army Reserve 
veterans who have helped to ensure that the United States' vital 
national security interests are protected and defended in times of war 
and peace.

I am very gratified by the outpouring of bipartisan support that this 
resolution has received. It is indicative of the high regard and esteem 
in which the Army Reserve is held among Members of Congress and the 
American public.

As a former soldier in the Army Reserve, I know the historic and 
decisive role it played along with the U.S. Army in promoting 
integration and the cause of individual dignity.

As a current member of the Subcommittee on Defense as well as the 
Military Construction and Veterans' Affairs Subcommittee of the House 
Appropriations Committee, I have been extremely impressed by the level 
of commitment that Army Reserve soldiers bring to their work and to 
their high degree of professionalism. They truly are ''twice the 
citizen,'' as Winston Churchill once remarked.

Today, the U.S. Army Reserve is composed of more than 30,000 officers 
and 150,000 enlisted soldiers. They have an active presence in 1,100 
communities across the nation, contributing military values, important 
job skills, and economic support. They are husbands and wives, fathers 
and mothers, and sons or daughters. They are our neighbors, our friends 
and acquaintances, and our colleagues at work. These soldiers can be 
called up at any time to serve our nation and they must be trained and 
prepared to respond at a moment's notice.

Here in the U.S. House of Representatives, 24 Members including 
myself have been privileged to serve as Army Reserve soldiers. In fact, 
2 of the lead sponsors of this resolution, Representatives Steve Buyer 
of Indiana and John Shimkus of Illinois, still serve in the Army 
Reserve.

As this resolution notes, the role of today's Army Reserve soldier 
has expanded and changed dramatically since President Theodore 
Roosevelt first requested that Congress establish a reservoir of 
trained officers in a reserve status. On April 23, 1908, the Congress 
responded to the president's request by establishing a permanent 
reserve corps of trained medical officers. The modest corps represented 
the humble start of what is today a multi-faceted operational and 
strategic force.

The duties have since expanded such that they have become an integral 
component of any active U.S. Army mission. They have answered the call 
of duty in World Wars I and II, Korea, Vietnam, the Cold War, Panama, 
the Gulf War, Somalia, Haiti, Bosnia, and Kosovo. In addition, nearly 
25,000 Army Reserve soldiers are currently deployed in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, and 18 other countries.

Through October 31, 2007, 102 Army Reserve soldiers had borne the 
ultimate sacrifice while serving in Iraq or Afghanistan. We dedicate 
this resolution to their memory and to the memory of all the Reserve 
soldiers who fought and died to defend our nation's freedoms throughout 
our history.

We dedicate this resolution to our living heroes as well--to those 
men and women who continue their service to our nation in the U.S. Army 
Reserve today.

Madam Speaker, I again thank my colleagues who are original 
cosponsors for their extraordinary support for this resolution. I urge 
our remaining colleagues to join with us in support of this resolution, 
which is intended to ensure that the first 100 years of the Army 
Reserve are appropriately commended and that the second 100 years of 
the Army Reserve are fittingly commenced.
