# None
## `0577490e9dfb2f8d72dcde816ff03dda`
`Mr. CARDIN â€” 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I am going to talk about an amendment we


have not yet cleared unanimous consent for it to be brought up. I am 
hopeful that will come. But in order to advance the issue, I intend to 
talk about my amendment, No. 1475, without offering it at this time. I 
think it is an appropriate amendment to talk about at this point 
following Senator Lieberman's amendment because his amendment deals 
with increasing our forces.

One of the reasons it is important to do that is the stress that the 
restricted numbers provide on our military personnel. Senator Lieberman 
mentioned, and I will repeat, the number of suicides and attempted 
suicides by our young men and women serving in the military has 
increased and one of the reasons, frankly, is that the repeated 
deployments and the length of the deployments have added to the stress 
of our servicemen.

Health experts agree that there is most likely a combination of 
factors leading to this increase in suicides. Many of these factors are 
simply the results of the prolonged conflict that our Nation finds 
itself in, including multiple deployments, extended separations from 
family and loved ones, and the overwhelming stress of combat 
experiences; each placing a unique and tremendous strain on the men and 
women of our all-volunteer force.

But while Congress has recognized these strains, and acted to help 
provide relief by increasing the size of our forces and thereby 
reducing the number and frequency of deployments, we cannot as easily 
remedy the stress or mental trauma created by combat experience.

For those who have had to witness the ugliness and devastation of war 
first-hand, they have encountered something very unnatural for the 
human mind to comprehend or accept. For these service members, 
recovering from these experiences involves a long and arduous journey 
in learning to identify, control and cope with a wide array of 
emotions. And this learning process is often only accomplished with the 
guidance and management of highly trained mental or behavioral health 
specialists.

In this light, we in Congress have acted to increase funding for more 
mental health providers and improved access for our troops and their 
families, and we have sharpened the focus of the military on addressing 
these care needs. That is very positive and has had a very positive 
effect.

What we must now focus on, and direct the military's attention to, is 
the potentially harmful practice of administering antidepressants to a 
population that frequently moves throughout a theatre of war and is 
therefore susceptible to gaps in mental health management. We are not 
certain they are getting the follow-up care they need.

A 2007 report by the Army's fifth Mental Health Advisory Team 
indicated that, according to an anonymous survey of U.S. troops, about 
12 percent of combat troops in Iraq, and 17 percent of combat troops in 
Afghanistan, are taking prescription antidepressants or sleeping pills 
to help them cope with this stress. This equates to roughly 20,000 
troops on such medications in theatre right now.

What I find particularly troubling, when reviewing these figures, is 
that the Pentagon has yet to establish an official clearinghouse that 
accurately tracks this kind of data. In fact, the Army's best reported 
estimate can only tell us that the authorized or prescribed drug use by 
troops in Iraq and Afghanistan is believed to be evenly split between 
antidepressants--mainly selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or 
SSRIs--and prescription sleeping pills. My amendment would provide us 
with the information so we know what is happening with the use of these 
drugs.

Providing that this best estimate contains some degree of accuracy, 
it is important for us to also recognize that many of these same 
antidepressants, after strong urging by the FDA, recently expanded 
their warning labels to state that young adults--ages 18-24 years old--
may be at an elevated risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior while 
using the medication. This same age group--18-24 years old--represents 
41 percent of our military forces serving on the front lines in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

While keeping this warning label in mind, it is imperative that my 
colleagues understand that nearly 40 percent of Army suicide victims in 
2006 and 2007 are believed to have taken some type of antidepressant 
drugs--and overwhelmingly these SSRIs. And as I mentioned at the 
beginning of this statement, the number of Army suicides reported each 
month are outpacing each preceding month.

This class of antidepressants--these SSRIs--are unlike most earlier 
classes of psychiatric medications in that they were, from their 
inception, specifically designed for use as an antidepressant --that 
is, they were engineered to target a particular process in the brain 
that plays a significant role in depression and other anxiety 
disorders. More significantly, however, these SSRIs are unlike most 
other antidepressant medications because they are still allowed by 
Department of Defense policy to be prescribed to service members while 
they are deployed and directly engaged in overseas operations.

Now, to be fair, there is widespread consensus in the community of 
professional mental health providers, and empirical evidence to 
support, that SSRIs do offer significant benefit for the treatment of 
posttraumatic stress and some forms of depression. And although there 
are some side effects, they are reportedly much milder and shorter in 
duration than other antidepressants. Additionally, SSRIs are also 
believed to potentially prevent, or at least some believe, lesson the 
more harmful long-term effects of posttraumatic stress disorder.

My concern, however, and hopefully that of my Senate colleagues, is 
not the long-term efficacy of these SSRIs, but more pointedly the 
volume and manner in which these drugs are being administered to our 
service men and women overseas.

You see, unlike medications that work on an as-needed basis, SSRIs 
only begin to work after having been taken every day--at a specific 
dosage--for a significant period of time. This frequently translates to 
a 3 to 6 week latency period before the therapeutic effect materializes 
and patients begin to feel improvement. In light of the population I 
have been discussing, there are two very readily apparent problems with 
this shortcoming--first, is that service members serving in forward 
operating areas, such as Afghanistan and Iraq, are quite frequently 
subject to moving between bases or into other areas--some so remote 
that there may be no trained mental health provider available to 
administer the treatment and to make sure it is effective.

Second, and more importantly, is that this initial period is when 
patients, particularly younger patients, often suffer an escalation in 
the severity of depression and/or anxiety.

In essence, DOD may be prescribing SSRIs to its service members, 
without the assurance that they will remain in a capacity to be 
observed by a highly trained mental health provider. Worse yet, these 
same patients may very likely find themselves ordered off to conduct 
combat operations during this same latency period.

Let's return our focus back to the alarming increase in the number of 
military and veteran suicides reported in 2008 and 2009.

At what point do we step forward to direct that action be taken by 
DOD to capture, track and report this data? And at what point do we 
ensure that DOD is properly prescribing, dispensing and administering 
these drugs to our troops without having in place the necessary 
controls and or patient management practices?

As a first step in this direction, the amendment I intend to 
introduce will accomplish a better understanding as to the potential 
magnitude of this issue. This amendment directs the Department of 
Defense to capture, at a macro level--at a macro level, not individual 
information, without divulging or violating any protected patient 
health information--the volume and types of antidepressants, 
psychotropics or antianxiety drugs being prescribed to our men and 
women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. It will also require DOD, 
beginning in June of 2010 and then annually thereafter through 2015, to 
report to Congress an accurate percentage of those troops currently and 
previously deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan since 2005 who have been 
prescribed these types of drugs.

I wish to reiterate that this measure specifically directs the 
disclosure of


this information by DOD to be done in such a way as to not violate the 
individual patient privacy rights of our service men or women as 
defined by HIPAA.

This legislation further directs DOD to contact the National 
Institute of Mental Health and provide any and all data as determined 
necessary by the Institute to conduct a scientific peer reviewable 
study to determine whether these types of prescriptions, and/or the 
method in which they are being prescribed and administered by DOD, are 
in any way contributing to the rising number of suicides by 
servicemembers or Iraq or Afghanistan veterans.

I want to specifically address one issue I have heard from some who 
express concern about this amendment by saying it would stigmatize, in 
the eyes of our troops, those seeking mental health care. Nothing could 
be further from what this amendment does. This amendment would collect 
information in an anonymous manner, and it will be invisible to the 
servicemembers serving on the front line.

The men and women serving in our military, and equally so their 
families, deserve our utmost assurance that we are doing everything in 
our power to see that our Nation's warfighters are provided the best 
medical care available. An integral part of our commitment must also be 
to ensure that these service men and women volunteering to serve our 
Nation are not being exposed to what may potentially endanger them when 
they seek medical care and mental health service.

This amendment is very simple. It asks us to gather information so we 
can make a judgment in a macro sense, without violating the individual 
privacy of our service men and women. It allows us to gather the 
information, to have the best information. This Congress has a proud 
record of providing the necessary resources for the health care of our 
warriors and their families.

This amendment will complement that by making sure that we have the 
analytical tools to make sure we are providing the right type of mental 
health services to our service men and women who are in theater. It 
gets us the information in order to judge what is being done today.

I would hope my colleagues would agree that we would want to have 
this information, and I hope at a later time I will have the 
opportunity to actually offer the amendment.

I yield the floor.