# IRAQ
## `058885076536289eb469775053db9279`
`Mr. ISAKSON â€” 28 February 2007`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, in approximately half an hour we begin 
proceeding to debate on the 9/11 bill. Saturday a week ago we concluded 
without resolution a debate on an Iraq resolution. I come to the floor 
of the Senate this morning to share with my colleagues my thoughts on 
Iraq and where we are, and to do so in the context of 9/11.

When I collected my thoughts about what I would say this morning, I 
thought back to a lot of lessons I learned from a great Georgian. In 
fact, on Saturday of last week, the day we had that debate, it was the 
75th birthday of former Senator Zell Bryan Miller of Towns County, GA. 
I learned a lot from Zell Miller in my lifetime. I learned humility 
when he beat me for Governor of Georgia in 1990. I learned respect for 
class in 1996 when he came back and asked me to chair the State Board 
of Education after he taught me a lesson in humility 6 years earlier. 
When I read his book, ''Corps Values: Everything You Need to Know I 
Learned in the Marines,'' I learned about commitment.

Also in the final debate I had with Zell Miller in 1990, I learned 
about how you snatch victory when somebody else thought they had it. In 
the closing debate, 48 hours before the general election when the 
cameras went on each of us for our last 60 seconds, Zell Miller's 
closing remarks were simply this. He said:




 You know, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have a race 


 for governor in 2 days and it's all up to you. But I want you 


 to remember something. Zell Miller knows one thing. If you 


 ever walk down a country road and you see a turtle sitting on 


 a fence post, there is one thing you know for sure. He did 


 not get there by himself.


In taking that remark, I would remind my colleagues we didn't get to 
where we are by ourselves. We got here together at least in terms of 
Iraq. After 9/11 happened, within days, the United States of America 
changed and the President announced to the Congress we would no longer 
as a nation have a defense policy based on reaction. We would have a 
defense policy based on preemption. We learned on 9/11 you can't wait 
to find the smoking gun in terrorism to react, because if you do, it is 
too late. In the case of 9/11, there were 3,000 dead citizens of this 
world because we didn't preempt. The United Nations, 171 countries, 
voted unanimously in favor of resolution 1441 which authorized or 
threatened military action against Saddam Hussein if he didn't 
cooperate with the disclosures and the inspectors that the U.N. was 
prompting. When the U.N. failed to act and this President, George W. 
Bush, wanted to act, he came to this Congress and we voted 
overwhelmingly to support using force to hold Saddam Hussein 
accountable and to go after weapons of mass destruction and to go after 
those sanctuaries of terrorism.

One would think, in listening to the debate in the Senate in the last 
few weeks, that some people have bad memories. They forgot about those 
votes. They forgot about the fact that George Bush didn't get there by 
himself. He got there with us. Now, are we disappointed in some of the 
things that have happened? Yes. Do we want to change some things? Yes. 
Do we differ? Yes, and the Senate is the place we differ. But while we 
differ, we should not discourage our troops. We should not discourage 
the people who are deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan and around the 
world in terms of our resolve.

So I would suggest as we go to the debate on the 9/11 bill, we 
consider it as a wonderful opportunity to make a simple statement, a 
statement that while we may differ, there is one thing we don't differ 
on: We don't differ on the fact that we will give our troops the 
support and the finances and everything they need to carry out the 
mission to which they are assigned. That is precisely what Senator Judd 
Gregg of New Hampshire wanted to do in his resolution that never could 
come to the floor in that 2 weeks of debate on the Iraq resolution that 
failed to get enough votes to get a final vote. It is time, with a bill 
as relevant as this 
9/11, which is the genesis of all we deal with today, that we send that 
clear message. While we may differ on some policies, we do not differ 
on the financial support and the absolute commitment to our men and 
women in harm's way.

I wish to put one other thing into perspective. As much bad news as 
we always talk about, a lot of good things happen. While some people 
may differ with the President's commitment to a surge in Iraq, even in 
the anticipation of that surge, there are some good things that have 
happened. Moqtada al-Sadr left Sadr City. He saw what was coming. Prime 
Minister al-Maliki already called for--and there are now talks about 
it--a regional conference on Iraq, including all the neighbors in the 
region--something many in here have called for, and I support, 
including getting the Iranians and Syrians into dialog.

Last week, the Iraqi council approved the foundation of a hydrocarbon 
bill, oil revenue sharing with the people and provinces of Iraq. That 
is soon to go to that assembly. Think of something; the people of Iraq 
are on the doorstep of having equity for the very first time in their 
history.

There are also disappointing things that have happened. Yes, we wish 
we were home with a victory already. But we have accomplished a lot, 
and we are this close to accomplishing the ultimate goal, which is a 
peaceful democracy in Iraq, terrorism without a sanctuary, and a 
statement that people are more important than power and dictators and 
terror.

The United States is the country that has, in history, led and today 
needs to lead as well. I encourage our colleagues, as we get into this 
9/11 debate, let's not forget about the debate we had on Iraq. We ought 
to send a clear message of support to our troops, understanding that we 
may differ on the policy. It should be clear and precise that this 
Congress and this country will see to it that our men and women have 
the finances and resources to carry out the orders to which they are 
responsible and they take on without any reservation.

I began my remarks by acknowledging my friend, Zell Miller, and his 
75th birthday and all of the lessons I have learned from him. He 
preceded me in this Senate, and I extend to him a belated birthday wish 
today in this speech. I also want us to be reminded of Zell Miller's 
many speeches on the U.S. Marine Corps, service to our country, 
patriotism, and commitment. Zell Miller knew as a soldier, he knew as 
the Governor of a State commanding the National Guard, and as a member 
of the Senate that while there may be political differences on the end 
result, there should be no difference in the support for the men and 
women who defend us and fight for freedom every day.



As this debate unfolds, it is my hope we will have the opportunity to 
bring the Gregg amendment to the floor and vote to send a clear message 
to our men and women in harm's way that we support them, the funding 
will be there, and we will stay with them as they pursue the cause on 
behalf of peace, liberty, freedom, and democracy in Iraq, Afghanistan, 
and around the world.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.