---
---

# D/FW INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT'S ``WELCOME HOME A HERO'' PROGRAM
## `0590c40be13d6e21aa5dc98a7cc698e4`
`Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas — 6 June 2007`

---


Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to 
pay tribute to the ''Welcome Home a Hero'' program at Dallas-Fort Worth 
International Airport. The ''Welcome Home a Hero'' program is a daily 
gathering of volunteers to celebrate the homecoming of soldiers 
returning from Iraq, Afghanistan, and Kuwait. This program is one of 
the Nation's foremost morale builders for our troops with over 150 
civic organizations, governmental departments, and businesses 
volunteering during its 3-year tenure. This tremendous effort has made 
the ''Welcome Home a Hero'' program one of the largest ongoing 
community service efforts in north Texas. These committed volunteers 
have given of their time so that our troops, as well as their families, 
can see how proud we are as a community, and as a nation, of their 
service and sacrifice.

Madam Speaker, the north Texans that participate in the ''Welcome 
Home a Hero'' program are the first people the troops see upon their 
return to the United States, and they speak on behalf of all Americans 
in thanking them and celebrating the safe return of each soldier. On 
June 12, 2007, the 500,000th soldier will come home for a well-deserved 
2


weeks of rest and recuperation, and I am proud to share that the 
''Welcome Home a Hero'' program at Dallas-Fort Worth International 
Airport has been selected by the U.S. Military to host this 
celebration. I extend my personal gratitude to the program's volunteers 
for their efforts in supporting our dedicated men and women in uniform 
who are proudly serving our Nation.

Madam Speaker, I am indeed honored to pause and pay tribute to these 
wonderful volunteers and valiant soldiers who represent the very best 
of the United States of America.
