# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--VETO
## `059edb8f8e1e46089dfad218dc0790f2`
`Mrs. BOXER — 7 November 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Madam President, I thank the Senator from Washington. I 
think what she did in her presentation is give a message of hope. I 
think this is a signal, this vote tomorrow. It is a signal we can work 
together across party lines to get things done for the good of the 
American people. People want to see that and they are going to see it.

The President said this bill lacked fiscal discipline. He doesn't 
realize, I guess, it has been 7 years in the making. We used to do 
these WRDA bills, these water resources bills, every 2 years. So there 
has been pent-up demand, the normal pent-up demand in a country that is 
growing, whose economy is growing, that is importing more and exporting 
more goods. Of course we are going to have a pent-up demand.

Then, when you put on top of that the disastrous consequences from 
Katrina and Rita and the fact that we are getting more floods and we 
are having more problems, you realize this bill is a very fair and 
defensible one. Again, as Senator Inhofe said, we don't spend a dime. 
This is an authorization bill, the first step in bringing Federal 
resources and expertise to a project that is developed at the local 
level.

Every one of these projects is brought to us from our communities. 
That means the communities are willing to put up funds and our funding 
is so important because it spurs on these projects.

I think what is sort of getting to the American people is the fact 
that, as the President says, a bill such as this, which is an 
authorizing bill, is too large. He seems to have a blank check for 
ventures overseas--$12 billion a month is going out the door, $12 
billion a month for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. This bill equals 
literally 2 months of that funding. It has taken us 7 years.

Put it into perspective. This bill that authorizes all these 
important flood control projects, navigation projects, recreation 
projects, environmental restoration projects--all these bills add up to 
2 months in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Then we read on the front page of the Washington Post the other day 
that the administration is paying millions of dollars to fix a dam in 
Iraq. I am all for that. I don't want to see anyone hurt in Iraq. But I 
don't want to see anyone hurt in Sacramento or in Seattle or in New 
Orleans or in any of the towns in Mississippi. I don't want to see us 
lose the Everglades. The fact of the matter is, I think the President 
is on weak ground in vetoing this bill that is so important for the 
public works of the country while spending so much on the public works 
of countries abroad.

This is an investment in America we will be making tomorrow morning, 
if all is well, and we see that same kind of vote we had the last time. 
We can stand tall and proud. Seven years is too long a wait for a bill 
that authorizes essential programs, such as navigation,


flood control, ecosystem restoration--but we are ready to go. I think 
this bill meets our communities' needs. Some of them are unmet needs. 
Some of them are acute needs.

Make no mistake, the projects that are authorized in this bill that I 
hope we will again pass tomorrow--again I hope we will override the 
President's veto--are going to protect thousands of homes and the lives 
of millions from catastrophic flooding. It is going to help us restore 
wetlands, estuaries, and rivers of our Nation--places where wildlife 
thrives and our families go to enjoy the outdoors.

Indeed, as hunting, fishing, boating, camping, and other outdoor 
industries boom, this bill is an important part of keeping our 
recreation economy thriving.

It also says, yes, our ports need attention. The waterways need to 
have capacity. We need to make shipping easier, safer, and efficient, 
so it keeps the economy moving. So much of our economy is dependent on 
water resources. Our ports and harbors are the gateway to the world. 
Our manufactured goods, such as autos and computer chips, move through 
those ports. Our agricultural goods, such as grains, wines, and fruit, 
pass through our ports and harbors to be sold around the world. Goods 
come in and they get distributed to the entire country. We are talking 
about thousands of jobs. We are talking about moving goods. We are 
talking about recreation.


We are talking about 360 million visits a year to our lakes and our 
beaches and other areas; 25 million people visit a Corps project at 
least once a year and that generates 600,000 jobs.

Let me say, tomorrow or later tonight my colleagues may hear some 
complaint about the fact that we didn't do enough Corps reform. I wish 
to say Members on both sides of the aisle spent a great deal of time on 
this issue. Senator Feingold has been a prime mover in this area, and I 
greatly respect the work he has done, but I have to say, as I have said 
to him, I know he wants more. But we went a long way. This is a good 
package. We have a truly independent review process. I think we 
actually made that independent review process more independent. We have 
outside experts, free of political pressure, coming in and examining 
all aspects of the environmental, economic, and engineering components 
of a project study. These panels will be able to receive and evaluate 
public comments. The panels will be available to advise the Corps 
throughout the entire development process.

The bill requires the first updates of the Corps planning principles 
and guidelines since 1983, when President Reagan was in the White 
House. The bill will make the Corps mitigate the impact of its projects 
the same as any other party and make sure mitigation is done in kind, 
up front, and not as an afterthought.

We included safety assurance reviews, increased watershed planning, 
authorized a levee safety assessment program, and expedited the 
deauthorization of the backlog of unconstructed projects.

But Senator Feingold still believes we should have done more. 
Frankly, I would love to do more, and I will work on this in the 
future. But we went as far as we could go. We cannot make the perfect 
the enemy of the good. I find myself saying that over and over around 
here. We have to do good work. The only perfect work is the work each 
of us wants to do.

I know what is perfect. Senator Cantwell knows what is perfect. 
Senator Inhofe knows what is perfect. If we write our own bill, to us 
it is perfect. But we have 100 of us, 100 different ''perfects.'' It 
means we have to reach across the aisle and work together.

I say to Senator Feingold, even though he is not on the floor today, 
thank you for your leadership, but please reconsider your opposition. 
Vote with us on the override. We have gone a long way. We have acted in 
good faith, and we will continue to work with you in the future on so 
many of the important reform issues you bring to this floor.

Tomorrow is a very big day for me as chairman of the committee, for 
Senator Inhofe, who actually started this bill when he had the gavel. 
He brought it pretty close to being the law, but we didn't quite get it 
over the line. He has worked with me as a solid team member.

I think it is going to be a great day for the Congress. I think it is 
going to be a great day for the Constitution. What we are saying: Mr. 
President, we are elected too. We count too. The American people vote 
for us too. When so many of us tell you we believe strongly that we 
need to meet the infrastructure needs of our country, we hope you would 
come to the table. This time you chose not to do so. We hope in the 
future you will join us.

It is a great day for the Constitution. The Framers of the 
Constitution foresaw this. They said: If you have an executive who 
decides to veto something that is a crying need in the Nation, and 
everybody agrees--67 of us, or two-thirds of those present and voting, 
can override a veto. Tomorrow is going to be a great day for the health 
and safety of the people of my State of California, of the United 
States.

I look forward to coming to the floor tomorrow. I think Senator 
Inhofe and I will divide 15 minutes, and we will, once more, lay out in 
shorter form why we think it is essential to override this ill-advised 
veto.

Madam President, thank you so much for your consideration, and for 
your work on this bill.