# RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AS AN  INDEPENDENT MILITARY SERVICE
## `05a276f86afd33db294645b5ff66cd8b`
`Mr. NEUGEBAUER â€” 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. NEUGEBAUER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to offer my sincerest 
birthday wishes to an American institution that has helped provide 
freedom and liberty for all of us that we enjoy today, and that is the 
Department of Air Force.

It was 60 years ago, following the passage of the National Security 
Act of 1947, that W. Stuart Symington was sworn in as the Nation's 
first Secretary of the Air Force, chosen to lead an organization 
finally given its rightful place in the brand new Department of 
Defense. The Air Force has gone on to become one of the steadfast 
defenders on high, enabling us to live in relative peace and 
tranquility knowing that they are always there literally keeping a 
watchful eye on our Nation.

Since its inception, the Department of the Air Force has been a 
global leader in perfecting and applying cutting-edge research and 
development. Whether it was the transition from the propeller to jet 
engines to the use of computer-aided weaponry incorporating satellite 
technology to today's use of unmanned aerial vehicles taking soldiers, 
marines, sailors, and airmen off the battlefield, the Air Force has 
always been the leader in the ''Revolution in Military Affairs.''

Whether it's patrolling the desert skies during Operation Northern 
Watch or deterring looming Iraqi aggression during Operation Vigilant 
Warrior, both in the 1990s, the men and women of the Air Force are 
constantly reminded that peace is not always peaceful.

Providing a multitude of services to their fellow warriors on the 
ground, along with dominating the skies against our enemies, they have 
played a critical role in not only defending America's interests abroad 
but being ambassadors of goodwill.

Just ask the airmen who sit on constant alert in the Central Command 
ready to deliver relief aid, as they did last summer during the 
conflict between Lebanon and Israel, delivering more than 10 tons of 
food and supplies to the region. Foreign citizens and Americans alike 
were once again blessed by the humanitarian spirit of the Air Force.

Today I rise not just as a proud American but as a Member of Congress 
who is blessed with the good fortune of representing the brave men and 
women of the 7th Bomb Wing and the mighty C-130 Hercules of the 317th 
Airlift Group at Dyess Air Force Base. Just last week I met with 
several of them before they deployed overseas, and I was swept away by 
their overwhelming courage and resounding spirit. Americans know that 
when airmen put on their flight suits, they are not just putting it on 
for themselves but for all Americans. They do it for others and they 
continue to do it so we can all live freely.

In the relatively short time the Air Force has been in existence, its 
contributions to America's security have been historic. America owes 
the United States Air Force a debt of gratitude for all that they have 
given us and will continue to give us, without fear or hesitation. They 
are always the backbone of our projected forces.

I wish them a very happy 60th birthday and best wishes for another 
successful 60 years.