# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `05a75f3c787ea10ad2356019a409e5eb`
`Mr. WICKER â€” 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. WICKER. Mr. Speaker, we should be standing together today in 
bipartisan support for our troops and for the resources they need to be 
successful in Iraq and the global war on terror. Instead, we have a 
proposal before us today that micromanages the war from Capitol Hill 
with ill-advised timelines for withdrawal that jeopardize our chances 
for success.

This plan is an unruly mess, bad public policy, bad precedent and bad 
politics. Those are not my words. They come from a Los Angeles Times 
editorial. The Times is right on target. The editorial goes on to say 
that by interfering with the discretion of the Commander in Chief and 
military leaders, ''Congress undermines whatever prospects remain of a 
successful outcome.''

The L.A. Times is a lot like most American people. They are unhappy 
with the war. They are unhappy with the way it has been waged, but they 
still want to give our generals and our troops the best chance for 
success. That is in stark contrast to the defeatism we see in this 
proposal today.

Some of our colleagues on the Democratic side of the aisle have 
quoted approvingly from the bipartisan Iraq Study Group. Here is a 
quote they have not used: ''The Study Group sets no timetables, and we 
set no guidelines. We believe that military commanders must have the 
flexibility to respond to events on the ground.''

The National Intelligence Estimate carries a strong warning against 
an early troop pullout. It said, ''If coalition forces were withdrawn 
rapidly during the term of this estimate, we judge that this would 
almost certainly lead to a significant increase in the scale and scope 
of sectarian conflict in Iraq.''

Despite these cautions, the proponents of this legislation are intent 
on taking us down a path that would lead to failure and defeat. Setting 
a date certain for withdrawing from Iraq is a dangerous idea. Our 
enemies will simply adjust their tactics and wait us out. The 
consequences of such a withdrawal will be far-reaching. It would signal 
defeat for the United States and embolden the terrorists in Iraq and 
throughout the world. It would enable Iraq to establish a beachhead in 
Iraq from which to operate, and it would be a catastrophe for the 
people of Iraq and the region.

There are signs that the new strategy is taking hold in Iraq. General 
Petraeus believes it will work, and he has our coalition forces engaged 
fully in this effort to succeed. It would be a grave and irresponsible 
mistake to undercut our soldiers by passing this measure before the 
strategy has time to be implemented.



The message we send here today should not be one to the terrorists to 
bide their time and wait for the U.S. to pull out. The message should 
be one of complete and total support for our troops and for an 
appropriation of the resources they need to succeed.