# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `05b07b857d565194174dfc9c61675123`
`Mr. CRAIG — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President, I have sought recognition to comment on 
veterans funding in this budget resolution. The Democrats have put 
forward a resolution that proposes to increase veterans discretionary 
spending by 18 percent--this is on top of a 12 percent increase that 
was included in last month's joint funding resolution. I have also 
heard that billions more will be proposed for veterans in the war 
supplemental.

Spending proposals of this magnitude in any area of Government should 
rightfully raise a few eyebrows and be met with a healthy level of 
scrutiny. Veterans programs are no exception. Taxpayers will continue 
to support higher veterans expenditures only to the extent we can 
assure them that those expenditures are absolutely necessary, will not 
be wastefully spent, and will meet our highest priorities. The Budget 
Committee chairman stated as much in his opening remarks on Tuesday.

Let me be clear. I am absolutely committed to providing the highest 
quality of care to our veterans. I have supported a 70 percent increase 
in VA medical care since President Bush took office. I have spoken 
frequently about not sparing any expense when it comes to getting the 
highest quality of care to our Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and 
veterans with disabilities. I have even introduced legislation that 
allows all veterans with service-connected disabilities to seek care 
outside of the VA system if that is what they prefer.

But what I see in this resolution is an effort to use the legitimate 
needs of our war wounded as a pretext to support funding increases that 
are beyond reason and that actually may harm the care provided to the 
veterans who are our No. 1 priority.

Let me point out a couple of areas where I think this budget fails 
our highest priority veterans and taxpayers.

The Democrats' budget proposes an extra $1.1 billion to allow new 
''Priority 8'' veterans to enroll for VA health care. Now who are these 
Priority 8 veterans? Priority 8 veterans are veterans with no service-
connected disabilities and higher incomes. They were granted 
comprehensive access to VA health care back in 1996 at a time when we 
thought their care could be provided on a budget-neutral basis. We were 
wrong. Priority 8 veterans then enrolled in such large numbers that 
quality and timely health care to VA's service-disabled and indigent 
patients began to be compromised.

In January 2003, Secretary Principi used authority granted to him by 
Congress to suspend new enrollment of Priority 8 veterans. His 
rationale was simple:

VA is maintaining its focus on the health care needs of its core 
group of veterans--those with service-connected disabilities, the 
indigent and those with special health care needs.

Taking the action he did on the eve of the war in Iraq was the right 
thing to do. He rightly instituted a policy that focused our limited 
resources on those for whom VA was established--our war injured and 
veterans who need VA the most.

All I have been hearing from the Democrats for the last 2 years is 
how we must not make our OIF/OEF veterans wait in lines for mental 
health


care, TBI treatment, or other specialty care. I agree! That is why 
their proposal puzzles me. At a time of war, when we're trying to get 
quicker access to VA care for our OIF/OEF and service-disabled 
veterans, how does allowing an increase in the patient load help 
matters? Where is the sense of priority here? It is like we are trying 
to keep a ship afloat by pouring tons of water onto the deck. It 
doesn't make sense.

For those who think that simply providing more money permits VA to 
automatically increase its capacity to see new patients, think again. 
It takes time to hire quality medical personnel. It takes time to find 
space to accommodate additional medical appointments and patients. 
Since 2003 VA has been able to improve the amount of time it takes to 
schedule primary and specialty care appointments so that more than 94 
percent of such appointments are scheduled within 30 days of the 
veteran's desired date. Why would we risk longer waiting times for our 
OIF/OEF veterans and service-disabled veterans?

Furthermore, is this new spending fiscally prudent at a time when VA 
budgets have been growing at double-digit rates? There are 24 million 
veterans in the United States; only 5.3 million use VA health care now. 
Have the longterm cost implications of opening the system to all 
veterans been considered in this budget? Have we contemplated the 
multibillion dollar unfunded liability we are creating here if millions 
more Priority 8 veterans show up for free care?

Let me move on to another area that concerns me.

The chairman of the Budget Committee made it a point to show how his 
budget meets or exceeds the recommendations of the independent budget. 
That is all well and good, but when the IB is used to set budget policy 
for the Congress, then a fair evaluation of the budget numbers is in 
order. Let's look at one account in particular--general operating 
expenses. The Budget Committee chairman quite proudly stated that his 
budget meets the IB recommendation of $2.23 billion for this account.

The largest portion of this account funds the administration of VA's 
benefits programs, to include its backlogged claims processing system. 
The administration has submitted a proposal that would provide VBA with 
the highest number of claims processors in its history. In fact, the 
President's budget will result in what will have been a 61 percent 
increase in claims processing staff since 1997. While I support the 
President's budget, it is time we tried a new approach to fixing the 
backlog of disability claims. Simply providing more and more money to 
fix the problem does not solve the problem.


What do we have with the Democrats' budget? On top of the President's 
record increase, the IB recommends an extra $700 million: roughly $100 
million for new information technology spending, and $600 million for 
additional staff. According to unofficial VA estimates, 600 million 
would buy over 10,000 VBA employees, almost double the size of the 
existing bureaucracy? VA cannot accommodate a staffing influx of this 
size in 1 year. It would have to lease hundreds of thousands of square 
feet and additional facilities all over the country. More money would 
be needed for communication services, utilities, personal computers and 
IT support staff.

Is this rational? Have the long-term costs been factored in? Was VA's 
ability to provide space for these employees factored in? Does the 
incoming workload command a bureaucracy of that enormous size? As 
ranking member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, I have not seen any 
data to substantiate a request of that magnitude. I have even asked the 
authors of the IB to justify the number, but have yet to receive a 
response.

We are not talking about chump change here. If an error was made by 
the IB, and I suspect one was, then we should fix it before it is 
perpetuated.

Let me conclude with this final observation. VA has been criticized 
in recent years for its very public budget gaffes. The General 
Accountability Office rightly condemned VA for ''errors in estimation'' 
and ''inaccurate assumptions'' that led to the VA funding shortfall of 
2005. I would caution my colleagues that we, in this budget resolution, 
may be repeating those same mistakes by providing money that VA could 
not prudently spend. It may be politically expedient to reflexively 
throw more money at problems. But let's also not forget about our 
obligations to the American taxpayer.
