# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `05bbd65ff24198e377f8704518eb45a3`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 21 April 2009`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I rise today to join the distinguished


chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee in support of Ambassador 
Christopher Hill as our next United States Ambassador to Iraq.

In helping to negotiate an end to the crisis in the Balkans, in 
leading three Embassies, and in working to disarm North Korea's nuclear 
weapons program, Ambassador Hill has gleaned invaluable experience and 
given invaluable service in over 31 years of diplomatic service to this 
country.

Ambassador Hill is a fellow son of the Foreign Service. My father and 
grandfather were Foreign Service officers, and I have some experience 
of the sense of calling and dedication that background provides. He is 
decent, honorable, and snarled right now in Senate politics in a way, 
frankly, that is less of a reflection on him than it is a reflection on 
us.

He is also a fellow Rhode Islander, with a family home in Little 
Compton, RI. His family moved there when he was in the fifth grade, 
when United States diplomats, including his father, were expelled from 
Haiti. He attended the Moses Brown preparatory school in Providence and 
later returned to the Ocean State to attend the U.S. Naval War College.

Now, at the crest of his career, he is a hero of the American Foreign 
Service and one of our very few most distinguished diplomats. He has 
shown in his career a special talent for bringing together ethnically 
divided peoples, a skill that will, obviously, be critical in Iraq. 
When the Balkans erupted in ethnic conflict, Ambassador Hill was a 
central player on the Clinton team that forged the Dayton Accords, the 
peace settlement that ended the Bosnian war.

In his book on the Dayton negotiations, Special Representative for 
Afghanistan and Pakistan Ambassador Richard Holbrooke described Hill as 
''brilliant'' and ''fearless,'' praising him for being both ''very cool 
and very passionate,'' and for his strong negotiating skills. These are 
the very traits we need in an Ambassador to Iraq.

Ambassador Hill served as Ambassador to Macedonia during a troubled 
time, and as a special envoy to war-torn Kosovo. He said of this 
conflict that ''like a lot of things in life: you've got to do 
everything you can do'' to be satisfied ''that you have left no stone 
unturned.'' I am confident he will bring the same tenacity to his 
position as United States Ambassador for Iraq.

As Ambassador to South Korea, Christopher Hill broke diplomatic 
precedent and charmed the South Korean people by repeatedly visiting 
hotbeds of anti-American sentiment, such as universities, where he 
engaged in open debate with audiences. He paid his respects at a 
memorial for thousands of civilians fired upon by a 1980s military 
government. No senior U.S. official had ever before visited this 
memorial, and he won the respect and trust of many through this simple 
yet momentous gesture. A senior official with the American Chamber of 
Commerce in South Korea, Tami Overby, stated:




 He was here the shortest term among the six ambassadors 


 that I've seen here in my 18 years, but [he] had the most 


 impact.


Ambassador Hill's time in South Korea was cut short as he was tapped 
to head negotiations in six-party talks over North Korea's nuclear 
weapons program. At a time of crisis, when the Bush administration had 
long ignored nuclear proliferation by North Korea, Ambassador Hill 
successfully brought China, Japan, South Korea, Russia, and other 
regional partners to the bargaining table. Though some of my Senate 
colleagues have criticized Ambassador Hill for negotiating with North 
Korea, his efforts there culminated in the dismantlement of the 
Pyongyang reactor, slowing North Korean nuclear proliferation and 
protecting United States and world security.

Now he is President Obama's nominee as Ambassador to Iraq. Timing, as 
Senator Kerry has pointed out, is crucial, and the delay is perplexing.

Let's look back to May 2005, when the Republican majority leader took 
to the floor to comment on the nominations of Miguel Estrada, Priscilla 
Owen, and Janice Rogers Brown to U.S. courts of appeals. He said then 
of the Senate Democratic minority:




 For the first time in 214 years, they have changed the 


 Senate's ''advise and consent'' responsibilities to ''advise 


 and obstruct.''


Well, the shoe is on the other foot. My Republican colleagues are 
obstructing the nomination of our much needed United States Ambassador 
to Iraq.

When, in 2006, Kenneth Wainstein was nominated as the Assistant 
Attorney General for National Security, my colleague from Texas, 
Senator Cornyn, came to the floor and stated:




 Obstruction from the other side of the aisle, Mr. 


 President, is impeding efforts to improve national security.


He continued:




 Democratic obstruction is impeding this effort to improve 


 national security.


Today, Republicans are engaged in the very obstruction they 
criticized.

In 2007, when Michael Mukasey was nominated as Attorney General, the 
Republican leader came here to state:




 If . . . our colleagues intentionally delay the nominee and 


 hold him or her hostage, they will show the American people 


 that their concern for the Department was insincere. . . . In 


 these times, it is especially important that the Senate act 


 promptly. We are, after all, at war.


Well, they will be the first to tell you that we are still at war, 
and yet on this critical appointment for our new President: 
obstruction.

Similarly, when it came to the Iraq surge, my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle argued vehemently that we should defer to the 
judgment of General Petraeus and commanders on the ground in Iraq. I am 
not so sure about that. Civilian control of the military is a longtime 
and valued American tradition. But that was their argument. We heard 
the name of Petraeus invoked over and over and over again.

Senator McConnell, in March of 2007, spoke out against setting 
deadlines for U.S. troop withdrawals in Iraq, stating that deadlines 
would ''interfere with the President and General Petraeus's operational 
authority to conduct the war in Iraq as he and his commanders see fit. 
It would substitute for their judgment the 535 Members of Congress.''

In September of 2007, my colleague from South Carolina, Senator 
Graham, said that ''. . . to substitute the Congress's judgment for 
General Petraeus's judgment, is ill-advised and unwarranted.''


Those of us who were here through that time remember clearly the 
repeated incantation of the name of Petraeus that featured so 
prominently in the Republican rhetoric.

Well, I suggest to my Republican colleagues, the time may now have 
come to heed their own advice. Last month, the U.S. military's chief 
spokesman, Geoff Morrell, stated:




 Generals Odierno and Petraeus have come out very publicly 


 and very forcefully in support of Ambassador Hill's 


 nomination. I know they support it. They know him from 


 previous assignments, they like him, they believe he is well 


 suited to the job and are anxiously awaiting his 


 confirmation.


What happened to the deference to General Petraeus now that he wants 
Ambassador Hill? And it is not just General Petraeus and General 
Odierno and the military establishment engaged in that theater. The 
last three United States Ambassadors to Iraq--all Republican 
appointees--Ambassador Ryan Crocker, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, and 
Ambassador John Negroponte, have all also expressed their unequivocal 
support for Ambassador Hill.

There are areas outside of politics where professional respect 
prevails. As a former U.S. attorney and attorney general, I have seen 
it among prosecutors. We saw it when prosecutors of both parties 
rallied around the Department of Justice when the Bush administration 
and Attorney General Gonzales made their best efforts to ruin that 
great Department. The same principle applies here, the politics of this 
Chamber notwithstanding. The professional colleagues of Ambassador Hill 
know better. They know how good he is, and they know we need him there.

My distinguished colleague from Indiana, the ranking member of the 
Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, also agrees. He put it well in 
Ambassador Hill's confirmation hearing. ''We're at war,'' he said. 
''This is not a parliamentary struggle among senators with different 
points of view.''

Senator Lugar is right. This is not or should not be a time for 
bickering. This is the time to confirm our next United States 
Ambassador to Iraq without further delay.

Christopher Hill has served in the State Department for 31 years. As 
Senator Kerry, the distinguished chair of


the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations has said, he is one of our 
Nation's most accomplished diplomats, ready for one of our most 
difficult assignments. He has the votes to be confirmed. Delay now can 
only impede progress in Iraq's future. And it fails me to understand 
how that could be any Member's goal. The situation is better in Iraq, 
but it remains difficult.

Arab-Kurd tensions are high in the north. Sectarian groups struggle 
for power after January's provincial elections, and elections slated 
for the end of this year will be a key indicator of Iraq's democratic 
direction. The safety of our 146,400 men and women on the ground in 
Iraq, of course, is always of concern. History shows that even major 
gains can always be reversed. So let us get Ambassador Hill out there 
to lead the transition of the United States mission in Iraq from a 
military intervention to a much needed focus on stabilization and 
economic development, and to advance our Nation's interests in that 
troubled region.

I thank the Acting President pro tempore. I thank the distinguished 
chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee for his advocacy and his 
ardent support of this nomination.

I yield the floor.