---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `05bba48abf4ac13d84abbb5f6c29b635`
`Mr. WEINER — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. WEINER. Madam Speaker, first of all, I think that I speak for all 
of our colleagues and all of us here in paying tribute to the 137,000-
some-odd American men and women who are fighting in Iraq, the 25,000 or 
so that are fighting in Afghanistan. We are here to do what we can to 
honor them. We are trying to express our patriotism. We are trying to 
do what we are obligated to do by standing up here.

The notion that it is our patriotic duty, our obligation to sit 
silent and to do whatever the President thinks is best and blindly walk 
in that direction, that is not the way to honor the troops that are 
there. I can imagine the challenges that they face every single day, 
and would the message going back to them be most appropriate that just 
as often as they wake up in the deserts of Iraq trying to figure out 
why people are shooting at them and what they can do to stop it, they 
should know that every single day we here in Congress are trying to 
think about ways to make their mission safer and make it more possible 
for them to accomplish their mission and to extract them as soon as 
possible. We pray that they are successful. Although I strongly oppose 
the President's initiative, that I am going to vote ''yes'' on this 
resolution, I pray that they are successful. I pray we don't lose 
another life. We want them to be successful. But it is not enough just 
to be silent and to be prayerful. We also have to act.

Some in this Chamber have objected to this resolution because what it 
seeks to do is to do two things: one is the thing that I have done 
already, which is to pay tribute to the troops, something we all share 
in doing; and two is begin on a path of oversight. It is not surprising 
at all to hear my friends on the other side of the aisle have such a 
difficult concept with this idea of doing oversight over something the 
President proposes. They have done no oversight over how the money has 
been spent over there, and so as a result, we found out in the first 
month of the Democratic Congress that a $12 billion pallet of currency 
was delivered to Iraq and promptly disappeared. We had hearings last 
week that showed that even Mr. Bremer and officials on the ground from 
the administration have no idea where $12 billion disappeared to. So it 
is not surprising that my Republic friends have a difficult time 
figuring out what it is we are doing here. We are doing oversight, and 
we are going to do more of it.

We are doing oversight over the equipment that the troops had. This 
weekend there were stories coming outside of Iraq that Iranian-built 
armor-piercing projectiles were being used in roadside bombs. It 
reminded us again that the troops had been sent there without 
sufficient hardware, without sufficient protective gear, without 
sufficient armor-plated vehicles to be able to do their job. We are 
going to do oversight on that as well.

And I have to say that as part of the oversight that we are doing 
today, we are doing oversight on how the troops are being used. And let 
us not kid ourselves. The troops have done a remarkable job. They have 
done just about every single thing we have asked. They brought down a 
dictator. They set up a trial. They allowed a government to be stood 
up. They built roads and bridges. They have done an extraordinary job, 
and we in this House support them in that work.

But now what is their mission? Their mission is essentially to stand 
in the middle of a shooting match of the worst order. It is not over a 
patch of land. It is not a shooting match over what a border is going 
to be. It is not a shooting match even over oil. It is a shooting match 
of the most ingrained type between Shia and Sunni that goes back 
hundreds of years. Are our troops going to solve that conflict with 
20,000 troops or 40,000 troops? I don't believe so. And even worse, I 
believe it is an untenable mission to be giving them. They are 
essentially in a schoolyard where everyone wants to fight.

And I have to say to my friends on the other side of the aisle, over 
and over and over again today I have heard this dynamic being described 
that if we were to leave or to support this resolution, we would let 
down our allies, we would embolden our enemies, and we would betray the 
Iraqi people. In fact, this policy does all of those things. Let us 
look at it.

What does this policy say to our allies? Well, it says to our allies 
in Afghanistan we are not going to devote the resources there necessary 
for you to do the job. This isn't an abstract notion. You can watch it 
happen every single day. So long as we have 140,000 troops or 130,000 
troops in this shooting match largely in Baghdad, we are watching as 
Afghanistan slips further and further back into the hands of the 
Taliban.

We have heard, for example, from our so-called ally the Saudis, and 
what have they said? They have been most telling. They said recently, 
well, to you, the citizens of the United States, if you pull your 
troops out, we are going to be forced to put resources in to support 
our Sunni brethren. So the Saudis have said if the American troops 
leave, we are going to have to jump in on the side of our Sunni 
brethren in Baghdad. What does that say? What does that say? That says 
they will jump into a blood-letting, but they won't come in now to help 
us stabilize Baghdad. They have argued, essentially, that the only 
reason they are not involved is our troops are. Some ally. Some message 
we are sending to our ally Saudi Arabia. What they are saying is, You 
had better keep your boys dying because otherwise we are going to have 
to send ours in.

That is exactly what we want. We want them to send they resources in. 
We want them to take ownership of this.

And the same is true with Egypt and other allies in the region. They 
have said to us, You had better keep doing what you are doing, Mr. 
President. We are getting exactly the wrong message.

And I have also heard my colleagues speak frequently today about


emboldening our enemies. Well, it seems like just about anything 
Democrats propose is emboldening our enemies.

Let us take a closer look at this. Is Iran truly upset about what is 
going on in Iraq? Are the Iranians truly wringing their hands every day 
saying, Boy oh boy, I hope the United States does not pull out of 
there? No. They have never been happier with this existing policy. 
Their worst elements, their worst Shia elements, are crossing over the 
border practically at will, joining the fight. The President of the 
United States himself has said it. I have heard people here on the 
floor say it. They like this confrontation that is going on. They want 
it to be like this.


But they are happy for another reason, and I say this particularly to 
my friends on the other side of the aisle. They are happy because I am 
truly concerned about the threat that Iran poses not only to the United 
States but to the world. Do you think we are in a position right now 
with our military stretched so thin that if we needed to act against 
Iran, we could? No. Our engagement in Baghdad, adding more and more and 
more troops, has stretched us thinner and thinner and thinner. And the 
most happy people in the world are the tyrants in Iran because they 
know they can get away with just about anything. And if you think I am 
wrong about that, take a look at the war back last year on the northern 
border of Israel. Hezbollah felt completely unencumbered, which is 
essentially, as we all know, an agent of Iran. They felt completely 
unencumbered again just to attack a democracy in the region because 
they knew that all of us were stretched entirely too thin to be able to 
respond. So this notion that we are going to send the wrong message to 
our enemies is completely wrong.

Do you know what would send the right message to our enemies, I say 
to my colleagues? You take some of those troops out of Baghdad, you put 
them on the Iranian border. That is how you send them a message. You 
get them out of the shooting match, but you keep them in the 
neighborhood. You keep them right on the border of Iran and you say, We 
don't need 140,000, but we are going to make sure you don't export any 
more problems. We are going to seal off the schoolyard.

And, finally, I have heard it said that this will be an abandonment 
of the Iraqi people. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there is no element 
here that I am more disappointed with, and I think I speak virtually 
for all of us. Our troops are in there trying to create stability in 
Iraq, and for some reason, overwhelming numbers of Iraqis say that they 
think it is okay to shoot at our troops. It is outrageous. It is 
outrageous. Our troops are in there trying as best they can to build 
this country, put it back together, and the Iraqi people over and over 
again are saying, You know what, it is kind of okay when I read stories 
about snipers shooting at our troops.

The Iraqi people have to have a moment where they confront the 
reality of the situation. Everyone agrees, I think, and whenever I say 
that, I hear someone come to the floor and think that everything is 
going just fine in Iraq, but just about everyone agrees that the Iraqi 
people themselves ultimately have to take responsibility for their own 
country.

Are we creating an environment that is more likely to happen or less 
likely to happen? Well, there is no sign that it is happening; so the 
de facto response to my own question is that it is not happening. But I 
would argue that every time we stand up and put additional troops in, 
we push the Iraqi people further from the point where they have to 
confront that they have to take control. Might it be messy? Yes. Might 
it even be bloody? Yes. But one thing is for sure: up to now the Iraqi 
people have simply said, We are not going to. We don't have to. We have 
got our boys from the United States of America, and now we have another 
20, 30, 40,000 that are going to be rolling into town.

My colleagues, I have heard my friends on the other side of the aisle 
complain, and I have to say, present company excluded, it sounded a 
little like whining most of the day. I have heard, well, we need more 
choices. I have heard we need more bills. I have heard we need more 
language. There are going to be plenty of opportunities to confront 
these issues, but today my colleagues have to confront the choice in 
front of them. Sometimes in this job you have to say ''yea'' or 
''nay.'' And this week what you have to say ''yea'' or ''nay'' on is a 
resolution that is exquisite in its simplicity. It says two things and 
two things only. It says we support the troops. We are going to keep 
them safe. We are going to keep them secure. We are going to do 
anything that they need to show our support. And, two, we disapprove of 
the way the President wants to increase the number of troops going 
there. That is it. You are going to get to vote on other things later 
on because we are not done. Many of us believe very strongly that we 
need major tactical changes, and I know Mr. Murtha has a plan. The Blue 
Dog Caucus has a plan for more transparency. There are going to be 
plenty of choices. You are going to get oversight.

I know it has been years, I say to my colleagues, since you have seen 
any around here, but you are going to get it. But today what we have is 
a simple proposition. It is the same proposition that is being 
discussed in coffee shops, in church socials, in corner stores all 
around this country, and that is: Do we support what the President is 
doing by increasing our engagement rather than reducing it? That is 
what this is about. And all of the foot stamping and all of the 
complaining and all of the whining, I want another bill, I want 
different language, I want to deal with something different, I want a 
hug, well, for the time being this is the choice that you are 
confronted with.

If you believe that this surge is the right policy, you have a simple 
vote. You can vote ''no.'' If you believe that you don't want to 
support the troops, and there is no one like that, you can vote ''no.'' 
But this resolution is the beginning of finally starting to do what the 
American people are thirsting for, and that is this Chamber is a place 
where we stand up and say whether we support these things or not.

I urge a ''yes'' vote.