---
---

# CORPORAL BRADLEY T. ARMS POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `05cce9b9ea6e75cc447d544fc47ed065`
`Mr. GOODE — 29 April 2008`

---


Mr. GOODE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5631, a bill 
I introduced to designate the Charlottesville Post Office as the 
''Corporal Bradley Arms Post Office Building'' in honor of a young man 
from the 5th District of Virginia who made the ultimate sacrifice in 
defending the United States of America.

Marine Corporal Bradley Arms died in combat at the age of 20 in the 
Anbar Province of Iraq on November 19, 2004 in service to his country. 
Originally from Charlottesville, Virginia, ''Brad'' attended the 
University of Georgia until he was called into service with the Marine 
Corps Reserve.

Friends and family described Brad as a friendly, caring, optimistic, 
patriotic and purposeful person. The three personal items he brought to 
Iraq appropriately illustrate his personality: a Bible, a picture of 
his family, and a University of Georgia flag. Brad was also a member of 
the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity at the University of Georgia. Family 
members recalled that Brad greatly enjoyed his fraternity brothers, 
friends, music, and faith in God.

While in Iraq, Brad often wrote to friends and family, displaying his 
positive attitude toward his mission in the military and demonstrating 
how proud he was to serve and defend his country. He said that his 
experiences in the military, ''strengthened his resolve to live the 
life of a balanced man and lead by example.''

Connor Rund, a young man who attends the same high school that 
Corporal Arms graduated from, contacted me suggesting that the 
Charlottesville Post Office be dedicated in Brad's honor. Since then, I 
have received several communications from members of the 
Charlottesville community in support of this tribute to Brad.

Please join me in honoring the memory of this young man who was a 
great son, friend, and patriot by supporting H.R. 5631 and renaming the 
Charlottesville Post Office as the ''Corporal Bradley T. Arms Post 
Office Building.''



I yield back the balance of my time.