---
---

# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `05e62caec788a193d0498ccdd9de0a72`
`Mr. DODD â€” 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, I rise today to announce that I am voting 
against the Iraq war supplemental. I wish I didn't have to. I wish that 
I looked at Iraq and saw a stable, united government, a society free of 
terrorists and insurgents, and liberal democracy around the corner, if 
only we spent another billion dollars, or a hundred lives, or another 
year of waiting. I wish that our surge had, at long last, brought quiet 
to the tortured city of Baghdad. I wish that our President's policies 
were working.

I wish that I could look at Iraq and say, with a clear voice and a 
clean conscience: I share our President's confidence.

I wish; and even as I wish, the truth tells me otherwise. It tells me 
that 3,415 men and women in uniform have already sacrificed everything 
in Iraq, with no end in sight. It tells me that our military is being 
hollowed out by the Iraq experience, that two-thirds of our Army in the 
United States and 88 percent of our National Guard are forced to 
report: Not ready for duty, sir. It tells me that the American people 
demand an end to this war, and that the Iraqi people--for whose sake we 
toppled a dictator and established elections, precisely so we could 
hear their voice--demand the same.

I look at this bill and I don't see the truth in it. It exists in a 
world in which the President's plans are all meeting their mark. It 
gives us a status-quo strategy that has failed and failed again. It 
writes the President a blank check.

I had hoped that this supplemental would have passed with strong 
timetables for withdrawal, a unambiguous line in the sand. A 
responsible supplemental would have established definitive guidance for 
the President to transition the mission of our forces away from combat 
operations. It would have defined that mission clearly as counter-
terrorism, training of Iraqi forces, and American force protection. It 
would have required a diplomatic and economic strategy in Iraq. And it 
would have held both the President and the Iraqi Government 
accountable. The Feingold-Reid-Dodd bill contained just such 
timetables, and mandated a responsible transition in mission, all 
backed by Congress's constitutional power of the purse.

But I cannot, in good conscience, support the half-measure that has 
taken its place. Instead of establishing realistic timetables, this 
supplemental does one thing only: It delays for 4 months, until funding 
runs out again, the decision we all know is coming: ultimately, combat 
troops will be redeployed from Iraq. This bill allows 4 more months of 
reckless endangerment of our troops and our national security.

A Senator shouldn't talk like that, some will say. I will be told I 
am declaring surrender right here on the Senate floor. Those are the 
words that will come from the other side of the aisle, big, grand 
words--surrender, triumph, defeat, victory--words that will blur and 
swirl together until they lose all mooring in reality. The President's 
supporters want to paint us a picture of a world in which we line up on 
a field of battle, the terrorists on one side and America on the other, 
and fight pitched warfare until one side waves the white flag.

But Iraq does not exist in that world. General Petraeus tells us that 
there will be no military solution; so does the Iraq Study Group. 
Senator Hagel, a war hero and member of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, tells us that ''there will be no victory or defeat in Iraq . 
. . Iraq belongs to the 25 million Iraqis who live there . . . Iraq is 
not a prize to be won or lost.''

So I am not conceding defeat in Iraq--because there is no defeat to 
be conceded. There is only the hope that Sunni, Shia, and Kurd will 
reconcile in government, call off their militias and death squads, and 
turn against the foreign terrorists who have helped to spark this civil 
war. Our combat presence in Iraq cannot make that hope real. We can, 
and must, continue to assist the Iraqis in trying to reach these 
goals--but we cannot do it with military might alone. In the end, the 
challenges in Iraq can only be addressed through political means.

We are told, again and again, that we are failing to ''support the 
troops''--support that is subject to only the vaguest of measurements: 
''messages'' and ''signals'' and ''resolve.''

We answer with fact. We answer with young lives lost and dollars 
squandered. We answer with the wisdom of James Baker and Lee Hamilton. 
We ask how any conceivable definition of ''support'' would leave our 
troops stranded in a civil war of strangers, with no mission or end in 
sight. And we say, unequivocally, that the only way to support our 
troops is to bring them home--now.

In fact, from the very outset of this war, it has been the 
President's defense policies that have hollowed out our Armed Forces 
and further threatened our national security. To reverse this 
negligence, Democrats have taken concrete action for our troops, again 
and again.

In 2003, I offered an amendment to the emergency supplemental 
appropriations bill to add $322 million for critical protective gear 
identified by the Army, which the Bush administration had failed to 
include in its budget.


But it was blocked by the administration and its allies.

In 2004 and 2005, I authored legislation, signed into law, to 
reimburse troops for equipment they had to purchase on their own, 
because the Rumsfeld Pentagon failed to provide them with the body 
armor and other gear they needed to stay alive.

And last year, working with Senators Inouye, Reed, and Stevens, I 
offered an amendment to help address a $17 billion budget shortfall to 
replace and repair thousands of war-battered tanks, aircraft, and 
vehicles. This provision was approved unanimously and enacted in law.

That is support--support that can be measured, support that carries a 
cost beyond words.

And it is support that will continue, even if this supplemental 
fails, as it should. The Defense Department has ample funds to maintain 
our combat troops in Iraq until they can be withdrawn responsibly. The 
failure of this bill will not turn funds off like a spigot--the 
military simply does not work like that. Instead, our troops are 
supported by the more than $150 billion in the Pentagon's regular 
operations and maintenance account--and in the meantime, we might 
negotiate with the President for a responsible drawdown of combat 
troops. Any implication that we are stranding our soldiers in the 
desert--without fuel or bullets or rations--is totally specious.

And it follows that the President's Memorial Day deadline is totally 
arbitrary. The lives of our troops are more important than the 
President's vacation schedule. Why should he set timelines for 
Democrats but not for Iraqis?

Instead, let us vote down this bill and then join President Bush at 
the table, with the dignity befitting an equal branch of government, 
and the authority vested in us by the American people and our 
Constitution. Let us bring this disastrous war to a responsible end. 
And after 4 years of failed policy, let our voice be loud and 
unmistakeable: This far, and no further.