---
---

# None
## `05e775d00e0b61aefe67dd96760107f0`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I returned Thursday of last week from Iraq 
after my tenth visit. A year ago this time I quite honestly thought we 
were going to lose this thing--incredibly depressed, because you could 
see over about a 2/1/2/ to 3-year period it getting worse with each 
visit. Things have changed dramatically. But it is important for every 
Senator to put Iraq in context so their constituents and the Nation can 
judge what our proposals are and what makes us tick on Iraq.

I believe Iraq is the central battlefront, not the only one, in the 
overall struggle against radical Islamic terrorism. At the time Saddam 
Hussein was invaded and replaced, it wasn't to drive al-Qaida out of 
Iraq, absolutely not. It was a dictator who had created war and chaos 
in the region as long as he had been a dictator, who had defied 17 U.N. 
resolutions to let us inspect his weapons program. It was the Russians, 
the French, and every other intelligence organization in the world 
believing that Saddam Hussein was trying to acquire weapons of mass 
destruction. It was basically neutering the effectiveness of the U.N. 
The Oil for Food Program designed to help the Iraqi people and control 
the dictator was a joke. So the reason we invaded Iraq is because the 
dictator was defying the world. He made us want to believe he was 
trying to procure weapons. Because if he wasn't, he should have opened 
his country to inspection. He was living off the Oil for Food Program.

We had 70 something Senators vote to authorize force. The reason most 
of us voted that way is because all the evidence possessed by everybody 
in the world suggested that Saddam Hussein was not becoming the 
solution to the Mideast; he was still the problem.

What happened? We displaced the dictator and we got it very badly 
wrong after the fall of Baghdad. We had a model that was short on 
troops. There was a period of time when we allowed the country to 
become lawless. Instead of stopping looting and pillaging, we let it 
grow. We disbanded the Iraqi Army, and they could have been helpful, at 
least some of them. We made a lot of mistakes after the fall of 
Baghdad. For about 3 years plus, we were pursuing a strategy that was 
not producing results. Why? Because we didn't have enough troops. The 
enemy was getting stronger, not weaker.

We had a great debate last year as to whether we should change 
course. Everybody in the body suggested we change course, because it 
was clear the old strategy was not working and it was depressing to go 
to Iraq and hear the people in charge on the ground say things are 
fine, when you knew they weren't.

I am not a military commander. I am a military lawyer. But common 
sense would have told you a couple years ago that this thing was 
slipping away. So it was time to act and change course. There were two 
ways to do it. You could pull the plug and start pulling people out or 
you could add more troops to secure the Nation in a way that we should 
have done after the fall of Baghdad.

I will take responsibility for my point of view of not pushing harder 
early on to have more troops. But I can promise you this: For a couple 
years, along with Senator McCain, we pretty much were the lone voices 
to add more into Iraq. As the polling numbers on Iraq changed, the 
desire to add more troops dramatically got more difficult for a 
politician. But that is what we


needed. I am here to tell you a year after the surge began that those 
who said the war in Iraq was lost were wrong. Those who said the surge 
had failed last April before it even started were wrong. Senator 
Feingold passionately believes that the troop presence in Iraq should 
change, and he was suggesting withdrawal long before it was popular. 
There are some people who have been playing Iraq for the next election, 
not for the next generation or the next decade. They have made bold 
statements such as it is all lost, that we have lost in Iraq. They 
never told us who won, because wars are about winning and losing.

If you believe, as I do, that this is a battle in a greater war, 
could you afford to lose? What is the price to the United States to 
lose a battle against al-Qaida anywhere in the world? What would it 
cost us as a nation for al-Qaida to be able to stand on every street 
corner in the Middle East and tell people: We drove the Americans out 
of Iraq? They came to Iraq after the fall of Baghdad for the very 
reason we went into Iraq, except with a different result in mind. We 
wanted to replace the dictator and allow people in Iraq who had been 
oppressed for 30-something years to have a better life and ally 
themselves with us and be a peaceful neighbor rather than an agent for 
destruction in the region. We wanted to allow a woman to have a say 
about her children. We wanted Sunnis and Shias to be able to live 
together and prosper. We wanted a peaceful Iraq.

Al-Qaida saw what we were doing, and they came in droves to make sure 
we were not successful. The question has to be: Why does bin Laden care 
about Iraq? Why is he sending everybody he can get to go into Iraq? Why 
is he disappointed with the performance of al-Qaida in Iraq? Because he 
said the land of the two rivers is the great battle of our time. The 
land of the two rivers is Iraq. Bin Laden, no matter what you think 
about him, understands the consequences of us succeeding in Iraq. It is 
a nightmare to his way of doing business. The thought of a woman being 
able to run for office, hold office, have a say about her children is a 
nightmare. The idea that Sunni, Shias, and Kurds can live together and 
not be told how to worship God is an absolute affront to his way of 
thinking. The idea that the Iraqi people would align themselves with us 
for a peaceful Mideast must drive him crazy.

They came, al-Qaida, with a mission in mind. That was to drive us out 
and kill this effort at moderation. Thank God the President changed 
course with a mission in mind. We put more troops on the ground 
beginning last February. A year later I am here to tell my colleagues, 
it worked. All of those who said we had lost in Iraq and the surge had 
failed were absolutely wrong. Thank God we didn't listen to them. 
Because if we had left Iraq, al-Qaida, as sure as I am standing here, 
would be claiming all over the world they beat America. Iran would be 
the biggest winner, second only to al-Qaida. And Iraq would be a 
chaotic place where the Sunni-Shia fight would spill over to the 
region. If you think there is a problem now between Turkey and the 
Kurdish rebels up in the north, imagine a collapsed Iraq. What is that 
worth to prevent? Let me tell you what it is worth. It is worth 
everything we have to throw at it.

Let's talk about the troops for a minute. We all appreciate them. I 
don't doubt that one bit. But answer this question: Why do they 
reenlist after serving in Iraq and Afghanistan at higher levels than 
anywhere else in the military? What do they see that we don't see? Why 
do they keep going back the second and third and fourth time?

My opinion is: They get it. They understand their commitment and 
their sacrifice now will prevent their children from having to go to 
such a battle in the future. And they buy this idea that if we can 
contain extremism and defeat it in Iraq, we are safer here at home. 
They believe it so much they keep going and going and going.

Let me tell you something no one said yet: Well done. We should take 
this 30 hours and celebrate what I think is the most successful 
military counterinsurgency operation in the history of the world. We 
should take the 30 hours and go over in detail what the commanders and 
the troops under their command have accomplished. It is a phenomenal 
story that will be talked about in military history for decades to 
come. It has exceeded every expectation I had. Adding more troops into 
Iraq, I thought, was essential and would matter, but I never dreamed it 
would matter this much.

Let's talk about what has happened since the surge began.

Monthly attack levels have decreased 60 percent since June of 2007 
and are now at the same levels as early as in 2005 and some points of 
2004. In other words, we are rolling back the clock on attacks.

Civilian deaths are down approximately 75 percent since a year ago, 
dropping to a level not seen since the beginning of 2006.

Now, what does that mean? The better security, the more likely the 
Iraqi people will step up to the plate and reconcile their differences. 
I have always believed that was the key to stabilizing Iraq.

Now, when we try to do things such as immigration--and my good friend 
in the chair knows how hard that is--they run awful ads against you and 
say terrible things about you on the radio and make life pretty 
difficult for a politician to take on the hard things. Everybody likes 
doing the easy things. Very few of us like doing the hard things. But 
when you do the hard things, you get a lot of push-back. But we keep 
trying.

Imagine trying to sit down across the table or the aisle with someone 
of a different sect, and they kill your family. Now, what kind of world 
is that? The violence in Iraq had gotten so out of control that the 
idea of political reconciliation, to me, was impossible. To expect 
people to go to Baghdad and solve their nation's problems--because the 
threat of violence covered the country, I knew we would never get 
reconciliation. But here is what I hoped.

I hoped if we could turn this around and reduce civilian casualties 
and reduce the level of attacks and reduce sectarian deaths--which have 
decreased by 90 percent in the Baghdad security districts; listen to 
this: a 90-percent reduction in sectarian killings in Baghdad--I always 
believed if we could do that, the Iraqi people would rise to the 
occasion because they do want a new Iraq. That was my bet. That was my 
hope. And if they do not want it as much as I want it, or more than I 
want it, then it is never going to happen.

But here is the evidence, after a year of sacrifice, blood, and 
treasure--not just by us but by the Iraqi people. Their army and 
security forces have increased by 100,000.

Let me tell you what it is like to go to the recruiting station in 
Berkeley. You get pushed back because of the city council ordinance.

Let me tell you what it was like to go to the recruiting station in 
parts of Iraq a year ago. They were killing people who were trying to 
join the army and security forces. They were attacking recruiting 
stations. They were getting the names of those who wanted to join the 
army and security forces, and they were coming after their families; 
and they still came.

I have been to Iraq 10 times, and I can tell you, I met people the 
first couple visits who are now dead because the terrorists killed 
them. Because what the people were trying to do is create a moderate 
form of living that is an absolute nightmare for al-Qaida.

I have always believed, after having gone there so many times, that 
the Iraqi people are willing to die for their own freedom, and if they 
can pull this off, it makes me and my family and my country safer. So 
that is why we stay, that is why we fight. And we are winning.

What has happened in the last 60 to 90 days? Not only have we reduced 
the level of attacks by 60 percent--and civilian deaths are down by 75 
percent and sectarian deaths are down by 90 percent--we have doubled 
the amount of weapons caches found because we are getting better 
information from the population. They are telling us things they did 
not tell us before.

Ten of the eighteen provinces have been taken over by Iraqi security 
forces. The Iraqi security forces grew by 100,000 in 2007 and stand now 
at more than half a million.

All I can tell you is the Iraqi people have taken the opportunity we 
provided them with the surge to stand up


for their own freedom. They are dying at 3 to 1 our rate. They have 
paid a heavy price. Our country has paid a heavy price. But the reason 
the Iraqis keep coming after somebody falls is because they want a 
better way.

If I had to put in a story line the most important aspect of the 
surge, it would be as follows: A Muslim country made up of different 
Islamic sects turned on al-Qaida. Listen to that. With better security 
and a strong commitment from the United States that we will be your 
ally, we will not leave you, we will not abandon you to this vicious 
enemy, they slowly but surely turned on al-Qaida, beginning in Anbar 
and now marching throughout the whole country.

What does that mean for the overall war on terror? That is something 
we should be on the floor celebrating because the way you win this war 
is not: Kill every terrorist. The way you win this war is: You stand by 
forces of moderation and you give them the ability and the tools to 
change their own destiny.

Look what has happened. Anbar Province, a year ago, was determined 
lost by the Marine Corps. This year, they celebrate a 5-K run through 
the streets of Ramadi. Why? Because the sheiks, the tribal leaders, the 
average citizen said no to al-Qaida, aligned themselves with us, and 
al-Qaida has been diminished in great measure.

To those who want to defeat al-Qaida, stay with the Iraqi people and 
help them defeat al-Qaida. What a message to the Mideast: Muslims turn 
on al-Qaida with American support. What is that worth? That is 
priceless. That is how we win the war.

GEN David Petraeus should have been the man or person of the year. 
What he has accomplished in a year absolutely is stunning, militarily. 
It has come at a heavy price in blood and treasure. But to all those 
who have served under his command, congratulations. You have made 
military history. You have made your country safer. You have been al-
Qaida's worst nightmare. And we are not going to let the Congress 
undercut you.


Now, the surge was not just about killing al-Qaida. The surge was 
about providing better security so the Iraqi people could build 
capacity to defeat their own enemy, enemies within their country, and 
reconcile themselves.

There have been major benchmarks out there for political 
reconciliation for quite a while. I said in October of last year, if I 
do not see progress by January or February of 2008, I am going to 
reevaluate my position vis-a-vis the Iraqi central government. One 
thing I can tell you, after a year, and going into March of 2008, the 
Iraqi political reconciliation has astonished me.

They have passed the debaathification law, and they deserve credit 
for it. What does it mean? It means Sunnis who held jobs in the 
Government during the Saddam era are going to be allowed to get some of 
their jobs back. What does that mean in real terms? That means the 
Shias and the Kurds have looked at a former oppressive group--people 
who ran Saddam's government--and said: Come on back. Let's build a new 
Iraq.

My God, what a statement to make. How hard that must have been for 
people who have lived under the thumb of Saddam Hussein and the people 
who ran his government, to turn to that same group and say: Let's move 
forward. Come back and help us build a new Iraq.

A provincial powers law just passed. What does that mean? It means 
the central government in Iraq, where the Shias dominate, has allowed 
the opportunity for local elections to occur in October of this year, 
hopefully.

That means that the Sunnis in Anbar can actually elect their own 
local leadership. They can elect people to send to Baghdad to represent 
their interests.

That means the Shias in the south are going to have a chance to elect 
their equivalent of a mayor, a county councilman, a Governor.

It means the central government, dominated by Shias, has turned to 
every province in Iraq--Sunni, Shia, and Kurd--and said: Instead of us 
running your life, you elect your local leaders.

That means they bought into this idea of democracy, where people vote 
for whom they want to make local decisions.

Here is what I predict: that in 2008 there will be provincial 
elections, and there will be a huge turnout. In 2005, the Sunnis 
boycotted the elections in Iraq because they were not certain that 
democracy was for them, and they were afraid of being left out. It is 
the Sunnis who are pushing for local elections, and they were able to 
win in Baghdad.

They passed a $48 billion budget--something we cannot do. A $48 
billion budget has been passed, with the blessing of all groups, that 
will allow money to flow from Baghdad to reconstruct the country in 
every corner.

The hardest thing for one politician to do for another is to reach a 
deal in allocating resources because you always want more for your 
people and less for the others. We still do that here. I love Colorado, 
but I like South Carolina to get its fair share; and usually that means 
I care more about South Carolina spending than I do Colorado. But 
people, such as the Presiding Officer and myself and everybody else in 
this body, usually were able to give and take and get a budget that 
helps everybody.

Can you imagine how hard that must be for a group of people who have 
lived under a dictator who have never had that responsibility before 
and who have been suffering from violence inspired by al-Qaida, 
sectarian in nature? They were able to overcome that hatred and that 
bitterness that has been inspired by al-Qaida and say to each other: 
Here is the money of the country. You get your share.

That is progress. That is hope. That is al-Qaida's worst nightmare.

The one that means the most to me is that the general amnesty law was 
recently passed. I have been a military lawyer for 25 years and a 
student of history to some extent. What happened in Baghdad is 
astonishing. The prisons are full of insurgents. People aligned 
themselves with the insurgency during this lawless period. Blood has 
been taken and shed from each group, one to the other. Most of the 
people in jail are Sunnis. There are more and more Shia militia, but 
right now it is Sunnis.

The central government in Baghdad passed a general amnesty law where 
a committee will be formed of all groups to go through the files of 
those in prison to allow them to come back home and be part of the new 
Iraq. That is a level of forgiveness and a desire to start over that 
had to be incredibly difficult because there is nothing sweeter than 
revenge.

The people who were on the bottom in Iraq for a long time, the Shias 
and the Kurds, and those in the Sunni world who were trying to 
basically prevent Iraq from coming together as one, have now seen it is 
better for them to chart a new destiny, a new course together. They 
have a long way to go, and they are going to be fought at every turn.


If you understand nothing else from this speech, as Senator McCain 
would say, understand this: al-Qaida is diminished, but they are not 
defeated. Their goal tonight or tomorrow or the next day is to create a 
spectacular attack that will make headlines all over the world, and 
people in this body will respond to those headlines and try to change 
course in policy. I would argue the worst thing we could do is allow 
one of the most vicious movements in the history of mankind to change 
American foreign policy because they have the ability and the desire to 
commit mass murder. So beware of al-Qaida. They are diminished, but 
they are not yet defeated, and they know they can't win in Iraq, but 
they are still not sure they can't win in Washington. They are not 
going to win in Anbar. They are not going to win in Baghdad, they are 
not going to win in Fallujah, they are not going to win in Diyala, and 
they are not going to win in Basra. But the question is, Can they still 
win in Washington? I hope the answer after this debate is no. If we 
would take winning in Washington off the table, reconciliation in Iraq 
would go at a faster pace, not a slower pace.

Economic progress in the last year: Oil production in Iraq has risen 
by 50 percent over what it was a year ago. Oil production is up 50 
percent because of better security. Oil revenues are double what they 
were a year ago, and the Iraqi central government has shared the 
resources with everybody in the country. Inflation has fallen from 66 
percent to less than 5 percent in a year. What does better security buy


you? It buys you a functioning economy, political reconciliation, and 
better military security. Electricity demand is up more than 25 percent 
since last year. People are purchasing, they are buying, they are 
building hopeful lives. There are 21 new health clinics in Baghdad, 
1,885 new schools, and 604 refurbished schools throughout Iraq.

People say: What about South Carolina? What about the schools in 
South Carolina? Lord knows we have our fair share of educational 
challenges in South Carolina and, like every other place in the 
country, we could use more money. But I am here to tell my constituents 
that the price to be paid in blood and treasure in the future losing 
Iraq is far greater than the price we are paying now, in my opinion. If 
I did not believe it, I would not say it. If the men and women in 
uniform didn't believe it, they wouldn't go back time and time and time 
again. If we can continue this model that has produced dramatic success 
beyond my imagination, we will win in Iraq, and everybody in this body, 
their families, and our Nation as a whole will be safer for the 
experience because it means al-Qaida lost.

Al-Qaida came to Iraq with a purpose: to undermine this effort at 
moderation, stability. They came for a purpose: to make sure a woman 
never had a say about her children. And they are losing. They have not 
yet lost, but they are on the road to losing, and they know it.

What is it worth for our country to align itself with a Muslim nation 
to turn on al-Qaida? It is worth everything to me. It is certainly 
worth my political future.

A year ago, when this debate was started, the polls were incredibly 
against the idea of sending more troops. The need for more troops 
existed, in my opinion. A year later, the results of more troops and 
better security is astonishing.

The way to get the Iraqi people to reconcile themselves is not to 
leave them, not to set a timetable for withdrawal that will encourage 
the enemy who is on the mat to get back up into the fight. The way to 
get them to reconcile themselves is to stand with them, to stand by 
them, invest in the training of their army, help them get on their 
feet. That is the way to beat al-Qaida. Winning is going to happen in 
Iraq unless we change this model here at home.

People ask me: Senator Graham, what is winning? Winning, to me, is a 
stable, functioning government, aligned with democratic principles, at 
peace with its neighbors, that rejects Islamic extremism, will deny al-
Qaida a safe haven, and will align itself with us in the greater war on 
terror, and finally, will create a system where a mother can have a say 
about her children. We are not there yet, but we are well on our way.

We have a model that will lead us to victory: a general who knows 
what he is doing and brave young men and women who are sacrificing 
because they understand the need to sacrifice. They are excited. They 
want to come home, but more than anything else, they want to win. That 
is why they keep going, going, going, and going. They are going to win 
unless we do something here at home to make it hard for them to do so.

The worst thing we could do now as a nation is to ignore the results 
of the last year, worry more about the next election than we do about 
winning this global war, and try to get an advantage over each other 
based on the next election cycle. I hope the Members of this body will 
understand that the turnaround in Iraq is not only dramatic, it makes 
us safer as a nation here at home, and that we now have a model that 
will allow us to win what I think is a war we can't afford to lose.

Let it be said, finally, that there are Muslims in this world of 
different sects who will come together and fight al-Qaida with us. Let 
it be said that there is a nation called Iraq that has lived under an 
oppressive dictatorship for over three decades, that is beginning to 
taste freedom, that they are fighting and dying for their own freedom 
in large measure, that they are beginning to reconcile their political 
differences, they are beginning to build a larger army that is combat 
ready, that they are beginning to create an economy that will allow 
them to sustain themselves, and they are beginning to create a society 
that will allow us to live in peace with them and be a force of 
moderation for the region. That, I say to my colleagues, is an outcome 
very beneficial to the United States.

I am glad we are having this debate. I am glad we have a little bit 
of time in a chaotic election year to take a breath and at least allow 
one Senator to say to the troops: You are winning. You should be proud. 
Good job. We are behind you here at home. We are behind the policy you 
are trying to implement. I hope they come home sooner rather than 
later. I believe they will. But when they come home, they are going to 
come home in a way that will allow them to tell their grandchildren: I 
did something that mattered for our country. That is why they keep 
reenlisting.

I yield the floor.