---
---

# None
## `05f081427dc5ef0259ba060a21aabc93`
`Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California. Mr. Speaker, thank you for the 
recognition.

And I would say that this week ought to be known as ''FISA week.'' 
The reason I say that is because this week we will make an important 
vote on determining whether or not we will have the ability to defend 
our country, both now and in the future.

As we have moved on a bipartisan basis since 9/11 to attempt to meet 
the challenge of the threat internationally that is sometimes called 
the ''war on terror,'' sometimes called the ''war of Islamo-fascism,'' 
sometimes called the ''war on radical jihad,'' no matter what the name, 
the American people know what it is we are speaking of. We have, in 
this House, in the Senate and in the executive branch adopted an 
analysis which allows us to respond in the most effective way, and that 
analysis is a risk-based analysis. And simply put, broken down into its 
constituent parts, risk equals threat plus vulnerability plus 
consequence.

The interesting thing in this equation is that the knowledge base of 
the bottom two elements, vulnerability and consequence, are within our 
grasp. Now, what do I mean by that? What I mean by that is 
vulnerability is our ability to assess how vulnerable our assets are 
that might be attacked by the enemy surrounding us. We can make 
educated judgments with respect to those assets, their value, how they 
could be attacked or destroyed, and how we can protect them against 
such attack or attempt of destruction.

Similarly, consequence is within our knowledge base. We know, with a 
successful attack, what the consequence would be. For instance, if the 
attack were lodged against a dam, a catastrophic event, a collapse of a 
dam as a result of an attack, we can measure what the consequences 
would be. How? Well, we know the number of people that would be in the 
way. We know the number of buildings that would be in the way. We can 
make a determination as to the overall destructive power of the surging 
water that would come through a destroyed dam. We can make an educated 
judgment as to the time by which those assets that would be destroyed, 
the time it would take to restore such assets, such as highways, 
byways, such as shopping malls, homes, hospitals, all of those sorts of 
things. So, within our risk assessment, we are capable, more or less, 
of determining what our vulnerability is and what the consequences of a 
successful attack would be.

There is a third element, threat, which is not as much in control of 
our already existing knowledge. Why? Because threat essentially is the 
intention of the enemy, the targets of the enemy, the timing of the 
enemy. That's what, in fact, a threat is. So, since that knowledge base 
is not within our power, essentially, how do we deal with that? How do 
we calculate what the threat is? We do so by utilizing intelligence. We 
gather intelligence. We find information from the other side, if you 
will, of the battle.

This is not a novel approach. It is recognized in the Constitution 
and the interpretations of the Constitution by the Supreme Court and 
other Federal courts from the beginning of this Republic in that it is 
recognized that the President of the United States was given Commander-
in-Chief powers. Why? Because of the failure of the Continental 
Congress, because of the failure of the first Confederation of States 
when they found that you could not have multiple commanders in chief. 
You had to have a single executive, particularly in the area of war, 
defense of our country, or relationships with foreign governments.

Now, implicit in the ability or the capability of a Commander-in-
Chief to exercise military strength on behalf of the Nation to defend 
itself, that is, to destroy those who would attempt to destroy us, yes, 
to give the President of the United States the power to exercise lethal 
action against the enemy, and that means, quite frankly, to wound or 
kill the enemy, to stop the enemy from destroying us, implicit in that 
authority is the authority to gather intelligence, the authority to 
gather foreign intelligence. In other words, one of the ways you find 
out what the enemy is to do on the battlefield is to find out what he 
is saying, the conversations that take place on the other side, the 
plans that they are developing, and the commands that they give to 
carry out their intended lethal action. That, essentially, is foreign 
intelligence.

And what we are going to vote on this week is something called the 
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, FISA. Now, the reason I bring 
this to the floor and I spell out these words is to remember what the 
focus of this bill is. It is on foreign intelligence, not domestic 
intelligence, not the ability to try and stop the mob from acting in 
the United States, not the ability to stop certain criminals in the 
United States from committing a crime or to investigate after they've 
committed the crime in order to prove up the case against them and to 
give them their just punishment, but rather, foreign intelligence, 
intelligence which deals with foreign governments, foreign powers, and 
associated organizations or people.

The FISA Act was passed by the Congress in 1978, intended to 
establish a statutory procedure authorizing the use of electronic 
surveillance in the United States against foreign powers or agents of 
foreign powers. FISA established two new courts. First, the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Court, which authorizes such electronic 
surveillance, and secondly, the U.S. Foreign Intelligence Surveillance 
Court of Review, which has jurisdiction


to review any denial of an order under FISA. These courts are made up 
of Federal judges from around the country, and they meet in secret 
session here in Washington, D.C.

I would note that the House Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence report that accompanied FISA in 1978 clearly expressed 
Congress' intent to exclude from coverage overseas intelligence 
activities. In other words, they never intended for the FISA court and 
procedure to somehow have authority over what is truly overseas 
intelligence activities dealing with foreign intelligence or 
intelligence of foreign governments or foreign organizations.

The report stated this: ''The Committee has explored the feasibility 
of broadening this legislation to apply overseas, but has concluded 
that certain problems and unique characteristics involved in overseas 
surveillance preclude the simple extension of this bill to overseas 
intelligence.'' In other words, it was not the focus of the 1978 act, 
rather, the act focused on domestic surveillance of persons located 
within the United States. The law was crafted specifically to exclude 
surveillance operations against targets outside the U.S., including 
those circumstances where the targets were in communication with 
Americans, as long as the U.S. side of the communication was not the 
real target. That's a very important thing to understand.

In the ability to be able to record these messages or in some way 
pick up these communications, you really have the ability to target one 
side of the communication. And so what we do is we target a foreign 
person in a foreign country.


Contrary to what Congress originally intended, due to the changes in 
technology and resulting interpretation of the FISA Act, warrants have 
been recently required in order to conduct surveillance against 
terrorists located overseas in some circumstances. Why? The technology 
changed in that, in 1978, most local communication was by wire, most 
international communication was wireless by satellite. We could take it 
basically out of the air, for want of a better description, and it was 
overseas. The 1978 act did not contemplate bringing those 
conversations, those communications within the ambit of FISA.

In the intervening years, we've had a revolution in technology by 
which most local communication now is by wireless and international 
communication basically comes by wire. And the fact of the matter is 
the nodes or the centers or the switching places, whatever you want to 
call it, not technical terms, happen to be, most of them, in the United 
States. And so suddenly the interpretation of FISA, now looking at the 
connection where you would try and somehow be able to capture this 
conversation that really was of someone overseas and not American, now, 
because it transited somehow the U.S., an interpretation by the FISA 
court was that a warrant was now needed.

Now, why would this present a problem for our intelligence community? 
Admiral McConnell, the former head of the National Security Agency, 
NSA, under President Clinton and now the current Director of National 
Intelligence, explained this to our Judiciary Committee. It takes about 
200 man-hours to prepare a request for a court order in the FISA court 
for just one telephone number; 200 man-hours. As he explained to the 
judiciary in the other body, intelligence community agencies were 
required to make a showing of probable cause in order to target for 
surveillance the communications of a foreign intelligence target 
located overseas; then, they need to explain the probable cause finding 
in documentation and obtain approval of the FISA court to collect 
against a foreign terrorist located in a foreign country.

Frequently, although not always, that person's communications were 
with another foreign person located overseas. In such cases, prior to 
the Protect America Act, that's the act that we passed before we left 
in August, which I might add is not going to be allowed to be 
considered on the floor, at least the Rules Committee told us earlier 
today they would allow no amendments, the FISA's requirement to obtain 
a court order based on a showing of probable cause slowed, and in some 
cases, prevented altogether the government's ability to collect foreign 
intelligence information out serving any substantial privacy or civil 
liberties interests.

Again, as the legislative history of the 1978 FISA Act made clear, it 
was never the intention of the act to cover surveillance of non-U.S. 
persons overseas so long as the U.S. person located in the United 
States was not the real target of the surveillance. Yet prior to the 
enactment of the bill that we passed in August, which has a sunset in 
February of next year, that's the reason we have to consider it this 
week, our intelligence community was saddled with the requirement that 
they devote substantial resources for the preparation of applications 
required to be submitted to the FISA court.



As an economist might say, this substantial diversion of resources 
imposed opportunity costs measured in terms of the intelligence 
analysis which was not done because of the need to complete paperwork 
in order to surveil foreign intelligence assets outside the U.S. who 
were never intended to be covered by the old law. In other words, you 
had to take the analysts off the job of looking at current 
communications that might protect us against attacks in the United 
States or elsewhere by those who want to kill Americans, who have said, 
by the way, that they would be justified in killing 4 million 
Americans, 2 million of whom would be women and children. We take them 
off that pursuit and instead put them on this job of doing the 
intellectual work that would allow for the paperwork to be presented to 
the FISA Court.

Furthermore, in response to a question I posed to him, Admiral 
McConnell affirmed that prior to the Protect America Act, again, the 
act we passed just before we left in August, the intelligence community 
attempted to work under the laws interpreted by the court but found 
that as a result of working under those restrictions, his agency was 
prohibited from successfully targeting foreign conversations that 
otherwise would have been targeted for possible terrorist activity. 
Think of that: those kinds of conversations that we always were able to 
pick up before, before we ever had a FISA, after we had the 1978 FISA 
Act, we were not able to pick up anymore.

In fact, he said that prior to the enactment of the Protect America 
Act this past August, we were not collecting somewhere between one-half 
and two-thirds of the foreign intelligence information which would have 
been collected were it not for the recent legal interpretations of FISA 
requiring the government to obtain FISA warrants for overseas 
surveillance. To put it in graphic terms, we have put blinders on one 
of our two eyes as to the ability for us to look at those dots and 
connect those dots that the 9/11 Commission said we weren't finding and 
weren't connecting before 9/11.

The consequences of this for our Nation's security are very real. As 
Admiral McConnell explained to our committee: ''In the debate over the 
summer and since, I heard from individuals from both inside and outside 
the government assert that threats to our Nation do not justify this 
authority. Indeed, I have been accused of exaggerating the threats that 
face our Nation,'' said Admiral McConnell.

He continued: ''Allow me to attempt to dispel this notion. The 
threats that we face are real and they are indeed serious. In July of 
this year, we released a National Intelligence Estimate, commonly 
referred to as an NIE, on the terrorist threat to the homeland. In 
short, these assessments conclude the following: the United States will 
face a persistent and evolving terrorist threat over the next 3 
years.'' Why 3 years? That is the total time of the NIE. They are not 
saying it will only just be 3 years, but in the time frame that they 
were supposed to assess, this threat will continue.

They say that the main threat comes from Islamic terrorist groups and 
cells, especially al Qaeda. Al Qaeda continues to coordinate with 
regional terrorist groups such as al Qaeda in Iraq, across North Africa 
and other regions.

Al Qaeda will likely continue to focus on prominent political, 
economic, and infrastructure targets with a goal of producing mass 
casualties. Mass casualties. That means thousands, if not millions, of 
Americans if they were successful. Visually dramatic destruction, 
significant economic aftershock and fear among the


U.S. population. These terrorists are weapons proficient. They are 
innovative and they are persistent. Al Qaeda will continue to seek to 
acquire chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear material for 
attack; and they will use them given the opportunity. This is the 
threat we face today and one that our intelligence community is 
challenged to counter. So says Admiral McConnell.

This is the real issue, the 800-pound gorilla in the room, if you 
will, which remains the central question before us: How do we best 
protect America and the American people from another cataclysmic event? 
I do not believe it is good enough for us to say we are preparing to 
respond to an attack. I believe what we need to do is to prepare to 
prevent such an attack.

As I have suggested before, when you assess the risk which allows us 
a proper assessment to be able to determine how we best array our 
resources against such an attack, we need to have threat, plus 
vulnerability, plus consequence. And the only way you can assess threat 
is by having proper intelligence.

As the National Security Estimate makes clear, those who seek to kill 
us continue in their resolve to, once again, inflict mass casualties 
upon our Nation. The threat is still there. Although we have been 
successful in thwarting another attack since 9/11, there are no 
guarantees in this business. In fact, if you would look at the polls 
that I've seen most recently, you will find that something like 70 
percent of the American people, in fact I believe it is 73 percent of 
the American people in the latest poll I saw, believe that we, that the 
U.S. Government, has been effective in forestalling a terrorist attack 
on our shores. However, 57 percent believe that we are less safe. So 
you put those two things together, you try and figure out what the 
American people are saying. I think what we are saying is they believe 
that many of the things that we have done in government with the 
support of the American people and the funding of the American people 
have been successful in forestalling a terrorist attack on American 
shores, but they know that al Qaeda and their affiliates and associates 
have not been deterred to the extent that they are still trying to do 
us harm.

So they see a continuing problem, and they expect us to see the 
continuing problem and bring us the efforts necessary to protect 
against a successful attack as seen from the other side.

Independent sources such as Brian Jenkins in the RAND Corporation 
have stressed that intelligence capability is a key element in our 
effort to protect our homeland. He states this: ''In the terror attacks 
since 9/11, we have seen combinations of local conspiracies inspired 
by, assisted by, and guided by al Qaeda's central leadership. It is 
essential that while protecting the basic rights of American citizens, 
we find ways to facilitate the collection and exchange of intelligence 
across national and bureaucratic borders.''

In this regard, Admiral McConnell came before us last August asking 
for changes in the 1978 FISA Act. When you think about it, a definition 
of ''electronic surveillance'' constructed almost 28 years ago 
certainly could not have kept pace with changes in technology. 
Ironically, as I said, when FISA was first enacted, almost all 
international communications were wireless. The cell phone did not even 
exist. Although the revolution in telecommunications technology has 
improved the quality of all of our lives, it has taken a quantum leap 
beyond the law.

When FISA was passed in 1978, almost all local calls were on a wire 
and almost all international calls were wireless. However, now the 
situation is upside down. International communications which would have 
been wireless 29 years ago are now transmitted by wire. While wireless 
radio and satellite communications were excluded from FISA's coverage 
in 1978, certain wire or fiber optic transmissions fell under the 
definition of electronic surveillance. Thus, changes in technology have 
brought communications within the scope of FISA which Congress never 
intended to cover in 1978.


Similarly, the rise of a global telecommunications network rendered 
irrelevant the premium placed on geographic location by the 1978 act. 
As Admiral McConnell explained to our committee, it is the Judiciary 
Committee, in the old days location was much easier. Today, with mobile 
communications, it is much more difficult.

So a target can move around. So the evolution of communications over 
time has made it much more difficult. So what we were attempting to do 
is get us back to 1978 so we could do our business and legitimately 
target foreign targets and keep track of threats and respect the 
privacy rights of Americans. Because a cell phone, he continued, for 
example, with a foreign number, GSM system, theoretically could come 
into the United States and you wouldn't appreciate it had changed. So 
you would have to now work that problem, and if you did then determine 
that it was in the United States and you had a legitimate foreign 
intelligence interest, at that point, you have to get a warrant.

It was with this backdrop that we enacted the Protect America Act 
this past August. According to Admiral McConnell, this act has provided 
us with the tools to close our gaps in our foreign intelligence 
collection. Think of that. That is what the 9/11 Commission asked us to 
do, close those gaps. He found those gaps that were at least as wide 
and even wider following the decision by the FISA Court earlier this 
year. He said, and says, that the bill we passed in August has closed 
those gaps.

He described five pillars in the important new law. First, it 
clarified the definition of electronic surveillance under FISA that it 
would not be interpreted to include surveillance directed at a person 
reasonably believed to be located outside the U.S. Under the law, it is 
not required for our intelligence community to obtain a FISA warrant 
when the subject of the surveillance is a foreign intelligence target 
located outside the U.S. This important element of the law is entirely 
consistent with the legislative history of the 1978 act. As I 
previously mentioned, it was not intended to reach foreign intelligence 
outside the U.S.

The second pillar of the act we passed in August establishes a role 
for the FISA Court in determining that the procedures used by the 
intelligence community are reasonable in terms of their capacity to 
determine that surveillance target is outside the U.S. The third pillar 
of the act provides the Attorney General and the Director of National 
Intelligence with the authority to direct communications providers to 
provide information, facilities and assistance necessary to obtain 
other information when targeting foreign intelligence targets outside 
the U.S.

The corollary of this obligation to provide intelligence information 
is the fourth pillar which establishes liability protection for private 
parties who assist the intelligence community when complying with a 
lawful direction under the law.

Finally, the law continues the requirement that the intelligence 
community must obtain a court order to conduct electronic surveillance 
or a physical search when the targeted person is located in the U.S.

Admiral McConnell defined the concept of the gap to be closed to mean 
foreign intelligence information that we should have been collecting. I 
am sure that most Americans would agree with the admiral that in a 
world with weapons of mass destruction there is no room for gaps in our 
intelligence capacity. Let me repeat: this is the considered judgment 
of a career officer in the U.S. Navy who headed the National Security 
Agency under President Clinton for 4 years and who now serves as the 
Director of National Intelligence. It is his considered judgment that 
the changes we made in the law in August were necessary.

Although it was scheduled to sunset 180 days after enactment on 
February 5, the ink was hardly dry before the left-wing blogosphere was 
going bananas. Now, don't get my wrong. I defend the right of any 
American to scrutinize and seek a different course concerning our 
national security policy. However, based on Admiral McConnell's service 
to his country to Democrat and Republican administrations, I would 
suggest that those who seek substantive changes in what he has told us 
to be necessary should face a heavy burden of proof. In fact, in his 
appearance before the Judiciary Committee while reserving the right to 
see the fine print, he indicated he himself was open


to discussions concerning changes in the end.

I would also make the observation that it is time for all of us to 
agree that this is not about President Bush. Whether you hate him or 
love him or don't have any feelings about him at all, that is not the 
issue here. We are talking about the security of our Nation, the safety 
of our people, the men, women, children, grandchildren we encounter in 
our districts at Little League games, Girl Scout meetings, and our town 
halls. Those who send us here to represent them are depending on us to 
protect their lives and the lives of their children. This is the 
context within which we must consider this ultimate matter of our 
responsibility.

While the law we passed in August, the Protect America Act, 
represents a major step forward in protecting the American people, 
there remain elements of the larger package unveiled by Admiral 
McConnell and General Hayden which should receive our prompt attention.

First and foremost, it is imperative for this body to extend 
liability protection to companies who responded to the entreaties of 
their government since the 9/11 attacks. That is why I am so 
disappointed when I appeared before the Rules Committee earlier today 
and we were told, as we walked in, as anybody walked in with an 
amendment, We will listen to you, but we have already decided it is 
going to be a closed rule. One of the amendments offered would have 
given this liability protection. At a time when our country was in 
peril, these companies responded to the call for help. In an earlier 
era, maybe in a simpler time, this might have been described as 
patriotism. But now, instead of kudos, what do they get? They receive a 
summons and a complaint. They were met by costly litigation because of 
their willingness to respond to our country in a time of need.

When we brought the issue up in our Judiciary Committee, one of the 
members on the other side of the aisle said, Well, these companies have 
millions dollars' worth of lawyers so they can defend themselves. Boy, 
that is the way we ought to do things. We are going to fight the war on 
terror with summonses and warrants.



We are going to sue them out of existence. Oh, I'm sorry. We are not 
suing the terrorists; we are suing the companies who helped us respond 
to the terrorists. Figure that one out.

Mr. Speaker, I would go so far as to suggest that regardless of what 
you think of the war in Iraq, regardless of what you may think of the 
war on terror, this violates all notions of fundamental fairness. It 
sends the worst possible message, not only to companies, but to the 
American public itself, that those who would come to the aid of their 
country are fools, and it is those on such an ideological crusade 
seeking to protect this Nation through lawsuits that are somehow the 
true American heroes. Rosy the Riveter of World War II fame has been 
replaced by lawyers in three-piece suits.

Some of you may be old enough to remember the standard text used in 
our typing classes. We would practice over and over again. Boy, I 
recall this, typing out the following sentence: Now is the time for all 
good men to come to the aid of their country. Of course it would have 
been better stated that: Now is the time for all good men and women to 
come to the aid of their country.

This was an ethos which went unchallenged. Believe me, in typing 
classes it wasn't a Republican idea, it wasn't a Democratic idea, it 
was an American idea, so noncontroversial, that it was standard text: 
Now is the time for all good men and women to come to the aid of their 
country.

Mr. Speaker, we must not send a message to our companies and the 
American people that if you respond to your government when our fellow 
citizens are threatened by a cataclysmic attack that the very 
government which sought your help will not be there for you when the 
ideologues come after you with lawsuits.

Even if you hate this President so much you can't see him to succeed 
in anything, at least consider the possibility that there will be a war 
down the line that you may support. Furthermore, those who drive around 
with 1/20/09 bumper stickers need to consider the fact that maybe, 
possibly there could be a new occupant in the White House more to their 
liking. He or she is going to need all the help that he or she can get.

Mr. Speaker, the war on terror is not going to end with the term of 
the current President. The new administration is going to need to call 
on the help of all Americans, including companies like those whose only 
offense was to respond to the tragedy of 9/11. By what? Serving their 
government.

Consider the additional downside of using litigation as an 
ideological weapon. As anyone who picks up the daily newspaper knows, 
there is always a story concerning the latest lawsuits. The litigation 
system can produce leaks of the most sensitive information. It is not 
the dissemination of information to the public which is even our 
principal concern. Rather, potential leaks of sensitive information to 
terrorists will better equip them with the ability to maneuver in the 
plan which they are committed to doing, killing innocent Americans.

Unfortunately, H.R. 3773, to be considered on this floor, the so-
called RESTORE Act that we passed out of Judiciary Committee last week 
and passed out of the Intelligence Committee, and which is scheduled 
for floor action as early as tomorrow, fails to address this issue. It 
does nothing, zero, provides no protection for the companies who came 
to the aid of our Nation after 9/11. As a matter of fact, if you listen 
to what happened in the Rules Committee, if you heard the debate in the 
Judiciary Committee, I presume if you heard the debate in the 
Intelligence Committee, you would not consider these companies to be 
something valuable in the defense of our Nation. They are suspect. They 
are questioned. They are, in essence, patsies, if you really look at 
this.

Mr. Speaker, the Protect America Act does not contain retroactive 
liability protection; not because we didn't believe in it, but because 
Admiral McConnell agreed to delay discussion on the agreement in order 
to reach an agreement on the law we passed in August to enable us to 
close the critical gaps in our Nation's intelligence-gathering ability 
prior to the August break. Since by its own terms that law was to 
expire February 5, this was an issue to be resolved at this time.

Unfortunately, the RESTORE Act resolves it by ignoring it. It is, 
therefore, essential for this body to take the necessary action to 
ensure that those who responded to the call for help after 9/11 will 
not be fed to the litigators.

Mr. Speaker, I would be pleased to yield to my friend from New Mexico 
(Mrs. Wilson), a member of the Intelligence Committee, a former member 
of our military forces, and someone who has been probably the most 
articulate in explaining the need for the changes in the law that we 
passed in August and for making that permanent as we go forward.