# CONDEMNING THE ATTACK ON THE AMIA JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER IN BUENOS  AIRES, ARGENTINA, IN JULY 1994
## `05f2c98cfcef87e78e7018bb943e3cc0`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, 3 years ago this Congress passed H. Con. 
Res. 469, which condemned the attack on the AMIA Jewish Community 
Center in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and expressed the concern of the 
United States regarding the continuing decades-long delay in the 
resolution of the case. I voted for that resolution because I believe 
that justice deferred is justice denied, and all those who are 
responsible certainly must be brought to justice.

I joined my colleagues in saying that we don't condone terrorist 
actions or military posturing by any nation, nor have I seen any 
evidence that suggests that those who have been accused are innocent.

But responsible foreign policy means thoughtful and insightful 
discussion between nations that reflects a desire for both peace and 
security here at home, in the Middle East, and around the world.

In the 110th Congress, the House of Representatives has passed 
several bills calling into question the actions of either the country 
of Iran or the leaders of Iran with respect to their foreign or 
domestic policy. Today, this Congress has brought up, under suspension 
of the rules, an additional three bills designed with the same intent.

This continuous renewal of U.S. objections to Iran's and foreign 
domestic policy can easily have the effect, intended or not, to beat 
the drum for war against Iran. I mean, isn't this very familiar?

The U.S. House of Representatives treats these resolutions today as 
being uncontroversial. Let this Congress be warned that the Bush 
administration can use these resolutions against this body and declare 
the passage of these resolutions as a green light to engage in 
aggression against Iran, and Iran could then be the next Iraq.

I believe this House is better served by demanding sensible and 
responsible diplomatic foreign policy initiatives from the Bush 
administration; that we should demand that the administration engage 
immediately in high-level diplomatic negotiations.

By continuing to neglect this duty and engaging in the ongoing 
condemnation of Iran, without opening of diplomatic channels, what 
we're doing is systematically destroying every available route to 
restoring peace and security in the Middle East.

We know that Iran is guilty of belligerent statements. We need to 
look no further than the second in command, President Ahmadinejad, to 
recognize the escalation of rhetoric and escalation of provocation 
between Iran and other nations.

But we also need to look at what's happening in our own country, with 
the actions of our Vice President, to know that the U.S. Government 
hasn't been exactly clean on these matters. On March 7, 2006 in 
reference to Iran, Mr. Cheney stated: ''For our part, the United States 
is keeping all options on the table in addressing the irresponsible 
conduct of the regime, and we join other nations in sending that regime 
a clear message. We will not allow Iran to have nuclear weapons.''

Now when he said that, it's very clear and unambiguous what that 
means. When you say all options on the table, you mean a military 
attack included, including the use of nuclear weapons. This is widely 
understood to be what the context of that statement was.

So here we are talking about trying to take a direction in foreign 
policy that would protect this country, and at the same time, we're 
jeopardizing our very troops in Iraq by rattling the sabers of war 
against Iran.

And so I think you cannot look at these resolutions apart from the 
context of administration policy. The same sentiments regarding Iran 
are reiterated by the Vice President on February 24 at a press briefing 
in Australia where he said, ''I've also made the point, the President 
made the point, all options are still on the table.''

Now I think that we have to be careful that this House isn't really 
acting as a pawn of the administration or emulating irresponsible 
examples when it comes to our Nation's foreign policy.

Last week the administration announced plans to sell $20 billion 
worth of U.S. weapons to Saudi Arabia and five other Middle Eastern 
countries. Arms groups, as well as human rights groups, question this 
decision, as well they should. The distribution of more weapons in the 
region when the United States purports to desire peace in the Middle 
East is counterproductive and counterintuitive.

So we really have to look at this doctrine that we're operating 
under, and I think this Congress has to demand responsible foreign 
policy initiatives, whether it's in regard to the Middle East or any 
other part of the world.