# None
## `05fce4b35c7f85104f220dc397d15df3`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Congressman Kline, thank you for your 
leadership tonight. And particularly I want to thank you for your 
family service, your service in the Marine Corps, your son's service, 
who is in the central front himself, having served in Iraq. We are very 
grateful for your family's service.

I am here tonight really indeed to point out the extraordinary 
service, 40 years of service, of General Peter Pace. I think it's 
extraordinary, and I hope the American people indeed look at this 
record of service.

The perspective that I am here is that I served 31 years myself in 
the Army National Guard, the Army Reserves. Really, the reason I served 
so long is because I have such great appreciation for the confidence 
and capabilities and the patriotism of the military of our country.

Additionally, I have the perspective of being a parent. I have four 
sons who are currently serving in the military of the United States. In 
particular, I am very grateful my oldest son served for 1 year in Iraq. 
I know firsthand of the bravery of our troops, the success of our 
troops in protecting America by keeping the terrorists and stopping 
them overseas. I am also grateful, I have a son who is a doctor in the 
Navy. We are very proud of his service, and his wife, and what they 
mean to our country.

Additionally, I've got a third son who is a signal officer who has 
served in Egypt with the Army National Guard, and a fourth son who has 
just joined the Army ROTC. He will be participating in the simultaneous 
drill program of the National Guard.

I give all my credit to my wife, Roxanne, for training these four 
guys. But I will point out that a reason that we have such faith in 
their service is because I have such faith in people like General Pace. 
I have entrusted my four sons to the leadership of the American 
military, which by every poll, every time it is done, I am afraid 
lawyers don't come out too well, politicians don't come out too well by 
standards, even the media suffers when it comes time to judge the level 
of perception of a profession, even ahead of the clergy is the military 
of the United States, and I believe they deserve it.

The final perspective I have as a Member of Congress. I have been 
here 5 years. I serve on the Armed Services Committee. The communities 
I represent, Fort Jackson, Paris Island, the Marine Air Station in 
Beaufort, the Beaufort Naval Hospital, but the greatest highlight that 
I've had is to visit with our troops overseas.

I have been to Iraq seven times. I have been to Afghanistan three 
times. I've visited probably 30 different countries. When we visit, we 
visit with the generals; we visit with the diplomats; we visit with the 
top American and foreign officials. But one of the real highlights is 
that we have the opportunity to go into a dining facility. And of 
course, they make it pretty simple for Members of Congress; they have a 
little flag identifying our home State. And we will go and we will find 
junior officers and enlisted personnel. And that's where you find out 
the extraordinary quality of the young people serving our country. 
Indeed, I believe it is the new Greatest Generation, people who don't 
whine, who understand that our Nation has been attacked. On 9/11, it 
was attacked. Beginning back in 1979, with the seizure of our embassy 
in Tehran,


we have had multiple attacks until we came to 9/11/01. And we've 
learned a lesson. And these young people are protecting our country.

Indeed, it was just three weeks ago today that I was in Baghdad and 
had the great opportunity to meet again with General David Petraeus. I 
have great faith in his leadership and what he's doing, protecting 
American families by creating a level of stability in Iraq.

Additionally, I had the privilege of visiting with the 218th 
Mechanized Infantry Brigade in Kabul, Afghanistan. This is the Army 
National Guard of South Carolina being very ably led by General Bob 
Livingston.

I was in that unit, Congressman, for 25 years, so I know firsthand of 
the capabilities of the person serving that unit as they are training 
the Afghan police and training the Afghan Army. A sad reminder today 
with the heinous homicide attack on the Afghan police; 35 policemen 
were killed yesterday. It is a chilling but a sad reminder that, 
indeed, the police that are being trained in Afghanistan and being 
trained in Iraq, the armies being trained in both of those countries, 
they have been the primary focus of attack of the terrorists because we 
are making progress in training people to provide stability in their 
own country.

Now, when I think of General Pace, it's really incredible that he has 
had a 40-year record of service. He graduated from the Naval Academy in 
1967. He was sworn in as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on 
September 30, 2005. And what is particularly meaningful is that he is 
the first Marine to serve in this position and also the first Marine to 
serve as Vice Chairman----