---
---

# None
## `05fc16082aa2ebbd545f281a8780187d`
`Mr. BISHOP of New York — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. BISHOP of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of the H.R. 2929, which I voted for, and which overwhelmingly passed 
the House of Representatives. This common-sense legislation limits the 
use of funds to establish any military installation or base for the 
purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United States 
Armed Forces in Iraq or to exercise United States economic control over 
the oil resources of Iraq.

In December 2006, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group released its 
recommendations for U.S. policy in Iraq. Included in those 
recommendations were two important provisions--the first advises the 
President against seeking permanent military bases in Iraq and the 
second encourages the Iraqi Government to take control of their own oil 
resources.

Accordingly, H.R. 2929 solidifies those recommendations and sends a 
very clear message to the Iraqi people that the United States is not an 
occupying force. The perception that the United States plans to keep a 
permanent military presence in Iraq and use its oil resources has only 
fueled the insurgency and violence against our troops. That has been 
exacerbated by President Bush's recent comments that our military 
presence in Iraq could extend 50 years into the future. In response, 
this legislation puts Congress on record opposing any permanent bases 
or attempts to control Iraq's oil revenues and helps take the target 
off our troops' backs.

Mr. Speaker, I oppose this war. I believe it is long past time to 
bring our troops home and end our involvement in this civil war. 
Although our withdrawal from Iraq will not happen tomorrow, this 
legislation is one way we can help put an end to our involvement today.