---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `05ff9535a53408685065491b7f0748cb`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Mr. Chairman, I believe you spoke for all of us 
on our side in putting in context the basis of this budget and the 
arguments of our friends on the other side.

I want to just add a few things about what this budget really is 
ultimately about. It's about real people, with real lives and real 
challenges, and the fundamental responsibilities of a governing body 
are to meet a budget and present a budget that meets the needs of its 
people. I want to tell a couple of stories about folks from Vermont.

Scott West, a veteran, of the National Guard, he lives in the town of 
Albany, in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont. He used to drive a truck 
for a living before he went to Iraq. While he was deployed over in 
Kuwait in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom he suffered very serious 
injuries to his shoulder, back and wrist.

In May the pain from his injuries got so bad he was no longer able to 
do his job as a truck driver. Nearly 9 months ago, Mr. West filed a 
claim for increased disability compensation from the VA. As of today, 
he has yet to have a hearing.

Now, the budget that we presented last year and passed, because you 
had foresight, has finally put in place new people to adjust these 
claims. We have got 1,800 new claims processors who are now going to 
help ensure that veterans like Scott will receive the support that they 
deserve in a timely manner.

I thank you for your leadership. That's the meaning of this budget to 
a man from Albany, and it's going to make a real difference to his 
family.

Peter and Irma McShane, they live in the southern Vermont town of 
Pownal. They are senior citizens. They live on $1,452 a month, so you 
can imagine how hard it is for them to make ends meet. Now it turns out 
that's $22 more than would be available if they were going to be 
eligible for food stamps.

So they have to scrimp and save every way they can. They get hit with 
this huge fuel bill. We have had a cold winter in Vermont. The budget 
presented by the administration cut low-income heating assistance. The 
budget that the committee is presenting tries to protect that, and it 
is absolutely indispensable to families like Peter and Irma McShane 
that they have the ability to heat their homes and not have to make a 
choice between medication and heat, between food and heat. This budget 
recognizes that.

I want to also share a letter I received from a couple from Fletcher, 
Vermont, in northern Vermont. Margaret Kinne and her husband. They are 
talking about the rising cost of health care.

They have worked in a woodworking business for 13 years, often 6 or 7 
days a week. They don't complain about that. They like to work hard. 
But their insurance has gotten increasingly expensive and now their 
deductibles have gone from $5,000 to $10,000 to $25,000. What they 
wrote to me is this, this translates to me to no insurance. The 
administration budget would cause over a half a trillion dollars in 
cuts to Medicare and Medicaid that would increase the cost shift and 
make that unaffordable insurance even more out of reach of this family.

I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the tremendous work that you have done 
in putting together a very good budget in very tough times.