---
---

# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `06069851b3893975da481bd840cf8540`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 22 January 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Madam President, I am here speaking a little


bit early. Senator Warner will appear on the scene shortly. But as you 
know, Madam President, I will be presiding, so this gives me the 
opportunity to speak now.

Senators Warner and Collins and I have worked to develop a bipartisan 
resolution dealing with Iraq. I thank them for working to forge this 
bipartisan resolution. I would clarify that the goal of this resolution 
is to broaden the resolution's appeal. It is important to send a strong 
message to the White House and Iraq. And the more support the 
resolution receives in the Senate, the stronger our message will be.

This may not be an either/or situation. We are bringing forth a new 
set of ideas, something more broadly worded for Senators to consider. 
Some can vote for this resolution, and the other, without feeling any 
contradiction.

The content of this resolution is more inclusive of the Iraq Study 
Group's recommendations and steers clear of partisan or Presidential 
rhetoric.

I urge our colleagues--some of whom I have spoken with today, and 
some of whom I have spoken with over the weekend, and others in recent 
days, some tomorrow--to read this resolution carefully. I believe they 
will find the resolution to be thoughtful, forceful, and meaningful.

If a Senator is not comfortable with the wording of the previously 
announced resolution, if a Senator was concerned that the resolution 
did not include the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, if a 
Senator was concerned about the infringement on executive powers, I 
think that Senator will find our resolution more appealing.

In the end, we all have a responsibility to lead. We are accountable 
to our constituents--the American people, as is the President. When we 
see a policy development that we feel is not in the best interests of 
the United States and the U.S. military, we must speak out, we must 
act, and we must communicate with the President that we disagree with 
his plan.

Simply put, that is what we are trying to do--to express our concern, 
our opposition, or disagreement with deploying troops in the heart of a 
civil war in Iraq.

The goal is maximum bipartisan support to send the strongest message 
possible from the Senate to the President, to the American people, and 
to Iraq about our concern about this plan.

Thank you, Madam President. I yield the floor and suggest the absence 
of a quorum.