# RETURNING SERVICEMEMBER VA HEALTHCARE INSURANCE ACT OF 2007
## `060a1cf1bfa3b66a180a0c9e03167dee`
`Mr. SPACE — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. SPACE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 612, the 
Returning Servicemember VA Healthcare Insurance Act.

This bill extends the eligibility period for receipt of VA hospital 
care, medical services, and nursing home care for veterans who served 
in combat during--or after--the Persian Gulf War.

Currently, the eligibility period for these VA services is two years. 
This bill lengthens that two year time frame to five years from a 
veteran's date of discharge or release from service.

As we learn more and more about what are increasingly being referred 
to as the signature wounds of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation 
Enduring Freedom--Traumatic Brain Injury and Post Traumatic Stress 
Disorder--I believe that this extension of VA care is essential to this 
Congress' mission to provide comprehensive care to our nation's heroes.

Often, a servicemember's battle scars run deeper than what is visible 
to an outsider. While many bodily injuries sustained are apparent to 
the naked eye, TBI, PTSD, and other conditions are not easily observed. 
Diagnosis of these conditions may require lengthy, detailed evaluations 
by specialists over the course of time. Furthermore, some psychological 
disorders take months or even years to develop following a 
servicemember's release from duty. Some chronic physical conditions 
also take time to peak and subsequently diagnose.

By extending eligibility to VA care to five years, we are helping to 
ensure that fewer physical and mental wounds go undiagnosed and 
untreated. We are helping to ensure that the care that veterans seek 
out and receive is more complete by enabling the VA to address more of 
servicemembers' health needs. Most importantly, we are offering another 
way to better care for our nation's wounded warriors who have 
sacrificed the best years of their lives.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 612 because it is an improvement 
upon the current system.
















 General Leave
