# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `060a6dd22c464f8ffa01fc20352bb1db`
`Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas — 18 July 2007`

---


Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas. First of all, Mr. Flake, I would certainly like 
to just say thank you so much for this opportunity. I've had a lot of 
people on both sides of the aisle say that this whole thing is a 
complete waste of time. And I personally just want to thank you for the 
opportunity to stand up and talk about Leavenworth County, Kansas. We 
don't get that opportunity enough.



Actually we have many prisons. We probably have more prisons in 
Leavenworth County, Kansas, than any other county in the United States. 
Let me tell you about three of them. Lansing, which is in Leavenworth 
County, hosts and houses the Kansas State correctional facility for the 
entire State. Then, of course, we have the United States penitentiary. 
It is an historic penitentiary, has got some names of people who have 
been housed there: George ''Machine Gun'' Kelly; the NFL running back 
Bam Morris; Leonard Peltier; Fritz Duquesne, a Nazi spy; and Robert 
Stroud, who later became the Birdman of Alcatraz. So it has a huge 
history there. But it currently still houses close to 2,000 prisoners 
for the United States Government, Mr. Flake.

Then let me tell you about the detention barracks, which is part of 
Fort Leavenworth. Actually, for the first time in, say, 50 years, a 
unit from Fort Leavenworth was actually sent to Iraq because they were 
so expert in detentions and in handling these kinds of extremely 
difficult and sensitive issues that they went to Iraq to try to clean 
up some of the mess that was made by some of the detention problems.

So, Mr. Flake, I would just say to you that I don't think this is a 
joking manner in any way, shape, or form. It is very easy for you to go 
tell the people of Arizona that you are tough on crime. But let me say 
that it is a very difficult thing to do, and we take a great deal of 
pride about it in Kansas. It does take a lot more than talk to say that 
you are tough on crime.

The local residents are proud of their heritage and rightly so, and 
they see it as part of their responsibility to preserve this history. 
Let me talk about what they are doing. They are raising $2 million of 
private funds for this.

So I am proud. And, again, I just thank you for giving me the 
opportunity to talk about this. We are asking for $100,000 to add to 
this museum. But let me talk about one other thing. Mr. Flake, I don't 
know if you understand this.