# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `060d6ea1e9965a6bc035aa7b5b0b05d6`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished chairman of our 
committee, Senator Inouye, for his leadership and the bipartisan way he 
has gone about managing his responsibilities as chairman of the Defense 
Appropriations Subcommittee. The committee has carefully reviewed the 
President's budget request in public hearings, calling before the 
committee representatives of the various service departments and also 
opening the opportunity for any outside interest to come to talk about 
what our needs are. In my judgment it has been a very careful, prudent, 
and workmanlike way to approach this very solemn and important 
responsibility. So he has brought us to where we are today, scheduled a 
vote, finally, on final passage later today, providing funding for our 
national security agencies, the Department of Defense, the men and 
women who have volunteered to put themselves in harm's way, to wear the 
uniform of our country and to defend our country against aggression 
here and abroad.

The Department is currently being funded by a continuing resolution. 
Although forcing the Department to operate under a temporary resolution 
is not a very good way to provide funding for a department charged with 
protecting our national security interests, it is the best we could do. 
I applaud the leadership of Senator Inouye for bringing a bill before 
us that will cover the entire Department of Defense for the remainder 
of the fiscal year, and for working with our counterparts in the House 
to begin resolving differences between the two bodies so that a bill 
can soon be presented to the President for signature.

There has been much discussion about earmarks. The chairman raised 
the issue. Later this afternoon we will vote on an earmark-related 
amendment or two. There are those who have been striving to inject 
additional earmark reforms and other ways of doing business. We think 
we have carefully reviewed all the requests for spending,


all of the provisions that permit spending in this bill, to be sure 
they are warranted, justified, in the national interest, and is not 
there only to serve some special interest or private interest of a 
Member of Congress.

Congress has worked, the House and Senate together, to improve and 
make significant changes in the process, adding procedures to 
facilitate the closest possible scrutiny of congressionally directed 
spending. In addition, the Appropriations Committee has gone beyond 
those requirements and imposed additional disclosure requirements and 
limitations on earmarking. But I am not going to support any suggested 
changes that will take away from the Congress or diminish the power of 
the Congress specifically to carry out its responsibilities under the 
Constitution to direct spending.


The committee has recommended, and the Senate has acted in its wisdom 
to approve or reject certain provisions of the bill. We have 
entertained all amendments. There is no closed rule. There is no 
specified number of amendments. There is no prohibition against any 
amendment of any Senator. So anyone who has a problem with this bill or 
any provision has had a right to say what it is, offer a change in the 
way of an amendment, and to have the Senate vote on it. That is the way 
we conduct business in the Senate on earmarks. It is an open process.

There is nothing in the procurement history of the Department of 
Defense to support the notion that the Department has been infallible 
in cost effectively procuring solutions for our Defense Department 
needs, and doing so in a fair, open, and evenhanded manner. The 
inspector general and GAO reports are replete with examples of poor 
judgment in Defense Department activities having nothing to do with 
congressionally directed spending. The GAO has upheld protests in 
recent years in which the Department did not perform its acquisition 
responsibilities in a lawful and appropriate manner.

So there are a lot of checks and balances that are at work in the 
process, and I think we have to remind ourselves how thorough and 
diligent many people are in assuring that the things that are approved 
in this bill serve the public interest, not just the private interests 
or whims of Members of Congress.

We have increased funding for the requirement that the Department of 
Defense identified over the summer for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected 
vehicles for our men and women serving in Afghanistan. We have imposed 
new requirements to help protect our soldiers in uniform and on the 
battlefield. We have included an additional $1.2 billion for the MRAP 
program, and it is above what the administration has requested. I think 
we have acted responsibly, and I strongly defend the decision the 
committee has made on this subject. I have no doubt including funding 
for the procurement of these additional vehicles will save American 
lives.

Congressionally directed defense initiatives should be subject to the 
closest scrutiny of the Appropriations Committee, and of the 
legislative process as a whole including the authorizing procedure 
which precedes the appropriations process. The activities of the 
Department of Defense were carefully scrutinized by the Armed Services 
Committee, which shares responsibilities for making these decisions, as 
well as the Appropriations Committee. But I do not think Members of 
this body should feel ashamed or embarrassed to promote the passage of 
this bill. It is a good bill. It enhances our national security, and it 
supports the efforts we are making to protect the security interests of 
this great country.

I thank the Senate for allowing me to make these comments and the 
distinguished Senator from Hawaii for being an active, responsible 
partner in the development of this legislation.