---
---

# CONSTITUTIONAL CHECKS AND BALANCES
## `0630cc29767af8e553b71e1f97a4a452`
`Ms. SUTTON — 24 October 2007`

---


Ms. SUTTON. I thank the gentleman. What great points, and thank you 
for reading that because we can all use sort of that reminder that the 
Founding Fathers recognized the dangers of an imperial Presidency where 
edicts from the White House might carry more weight than laws passed in 
Congress or rulings handed down by the court. And that is what we are 
here to do, to get things back in balance.

Unfortunately, as we have sort of expressed earlier, some of us, that 
the White House at present has routinely refused to provide information 
to the Congress. As the gentleman from Minnesota points out, that is 
not what was envisioned when our Founding Fathers put together the 
fantastic, amazing, living document that we are here today to reclaim.

Earlier this month, I heard testimony from executive branch witnesses 
that they were refusing to answer questions before Congress on whether 
or not there is corruption in the Iraqi Government. We hear this right 
after we hear our distinguished colleague from New York talking so 
eloquently about what he saw and what he witnessed. And we hear about 
our responsibility to come forth with the knowledge that we gain when 
we go to Iraq and I, too, have visited Iraq. We hear witnesses come in, 
though, from the administration when you start to ask questions about 
corruption that may be going on in that country, where we have paid, 
those of us here, the American soldiers, the troops, the price that 
they have paid. You speak so eloquently of them, Congressman Hall, and 
their dedication and their heart. I have to tell you, they are 
breathtaking to watch in action. But we have to question if money is 
missing. We have to question when equipment is missing because the 
troops pay a price. The American people are paying a price for what we 
are doing in Iraq.

At any rate, the reality of an administration that instead of 
providing information so that we can investigate, they stonewalled 
providing information and in that case and in so many other cases, and 
I am sure others are going to mention them, it is our responsibility to 
ask the questions, to get the information and make sure that we make 
policies that are worthy of those soldiers and are worthy of the 
American people.

I am so proud to be here with you all tonight, the members of the 
freshman class as we begin this campaign to reclaim our responsibility. 
Before I yield back, I just want to mention one thing that was 
striking. The gentleman from Minnesota mentioned that the President has 
rights under article II. But I think that we would all be better served 
that rather than thinking of the President having rights, he should 
think of them as responsibilities, because they are not personal 
rights. It is a job description for him, too, in article II.