---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `0638f418dfcb87cd1e53d0c2d78847e5`
`Mr. DICKS — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. DICKS. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of the 
supplemental. The Under Secretary of Defense, Mr. Hale, advises that 
the operation and maintenance accounts will begin to exhaust available 
obligation authority in early August. The Under Secretary has made it 
very clear that we have to get this funding enacted.

The Senate bill includes $32.8 billion, $352 million below the 
President's request for operations, personnel costs, and equipment 
reconstitution related to overseas contingency operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and for emergency relief activities related to the 
earthquake relief.



The bill includes funding in the following major categories:

For military personnel, $1.8 billion;

For operations and maintenance, the bill includes $24.6 billion;

Also, for the Afghanistan-Iraq Security Forces Fund, the bill 
includes requested funds of $2.6 billion for the Afghan Forces Fund and 
$1 billion for the Iraq Security Readiness programs;

The bill funds key readiness programs to prepare military forces for 
combat operations and other missions, including for OPTEMPO flying 
hours, steaming days, depot maintenance, training, spare parts, and 
base operations;



Regarding troop expansion in Afghanistan, the bill fully funds 
additional units to support the troop expansion in Afghanistan;

The bill provides $50 million for the Department of Defense to 
transfer to the Department of Transportation for port activities in 
Guam;

It also reimburses $72.5 million to the Navy for emergency flood 
repairs;

The bill includes $4.9 billion for procurement. This would include 
aircraft-vehicle force protection and other equipment;

For research, development, test, and evaluation, the bill provides 
$273.7 million for R, D, T, and E, which is a few million below the 
President's request;

Regarding the Revolving Management Fund, the bill would provide $1.1 
billion for defense work and capital funds. It would also provide $33.4 
million for the defense health program. The bill includes $94 million 
for drug interdiction and counterdrug activities in Afghanistan, 
Pakistan, and Central Asia;

For the Joint Improvised Explosive Device, that money from JIEDDO 
would be transferred to the Army.

I just think it is clear that we have got to pass this bill today, 
this supplemental, and get this behind us as we move on to the 2011 
bill. As stated, the Secretary and the comptroller pointed out that, by 
mid-August, we will start running out of funds for key crucial 
accounts, and they will have to start making adjustments that will be 
ridiculous, so we must get this done today.