---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `063cdf2054972fe38b3560ab3a87ee58`
`Mr. MARKEY — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. MARKEY. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman.

Madam Speaker, this debate marks the beginning of the end of the ill-
conceived, mismanaged and ultimately failed war in Iraq. The war in 
Iraq was launched on the basis of false and misleading intelligence 
about a nonexistent nuclear weapons program. When the inspectors looked 
for nuclear weapons in all the most likely places, there was nothing 
there. When they looked in all the unlikely places, there was nothing 
there. When this was reported to the world, the world said ''don't 
invade.'' But when this was reported to the President of the United 
States, he chose to invade Iraq. In other words, the President did the 
opposite of what the evidence would dictate.

Here we are, 4 years after the invasion. The American people looked 
at the facts on the ground in Iraq and voted in November to de-
escalate. The generals looked at the situation and said de-escalate. 
The Iraq Study Group analyzed our options and said we should de-
escalate.

So what has the President of the United States decided? After all the 
evidence, he has chosen to escalate the war. Once again, our President 
is doing the opposite of what the evidence and common sense dictates.

Our troops continue to fight heroically to prevent Iraq from sliding 
into anarchy, but they are losing ground to a deep emotional cycle of 
religious strife and revenge that goes back 14 centuries. Our soldiers 
cannot be beaten on the military battlefield, but neither should they 
be faulted for failing to drain a political swamp.

The American people are now speaking out with one clear voice, in 
frustration and in anger, demanding change, demanding a new direction 
in Iraq. But the President isn't giving us a new direction. All he has 
to offer is more of the same, an escalation of our troop presence in 
Iraq. And this escalation ignores the recommendation of the bipartisan 
Iraq Study Group, which said that all combat brigades not necessary for 
force protection could be out of Iraq by the beginning of 2008.

This week, we have a choice: We can say no to the President's failed 
war in Iraq, we can say no to the President's escalation, and we can 
say no to the unnecessary loss of another American soldier, marine or 
airman; or we can once again vote to stay the course and to continue on 
with this failed policy.

Many Americans have expressed frustration that the resolution we vote 
on this week is a nonbinding resolution, and I understand that 
frustration. On January 9, Senator Kennedy and I introduced companion 
bills in the Senate and House to block President Bush's new plan to 
escalate troop levels in Iraq. Our legislation would prevent the 
obligation or expenditure of a single dollar to increase the number of 
troops in Iraq unless Congress affirmatively voted to do so.

But I would not dismiss this resolution's importance simply because 
it is nonbinding. Twenty-four years ago, this House took up another 
nonbinding resolution when it first debated my nuclear freeze 
resolution. We passed the nuclear freeze on the floor of the House. It 
was nonbinding and it never passed the Senate. But it nevertheless 
changed the course of this Nation's nuclear weapons policy. It did so 
because of the pressure it put on the White House to change, and it was 
followed by binding legislation that halted tests of anti-satellite 
weapons, cut funding for Star Wars and cut in half the plan size of the 
MX missile force.

That is why I fully understand why some Republican Members have 
simultaneously denounced this resolution as silly and unserious, and, 
at the same time, have tried to prevent its passage. Why are they 
afraid of a nonbinding resolution? Because this resolution exposes the 
lack of support in the Congress for the President's escalation scheme.

The administration's failed strategy has already ended any chance of 
a successful short-term outcome. The just-released, deeply pessimistic 
National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq simply confirms this situation.

We are in the middle of a sectarian religious civil war in Iraq, and 
the presence of our troops is preventing the Iraqi people from taking 
responsibility for their own security and for their own political 
solution that must follow.

This war should never have been fought, period. It was a mistake, the 
American people know it was a mistake, our military leaders know it was 
a mistake and a bipartisan majority in the United States Congress know 
it was a mistake.



Let's pass this resolution and send a strong signal to the Bush 
administration that it is time to stop the escalation, bring this war 
to an end, and bring our troops home. I urge adoption of this 
resolution.














 Parliamentary Inquiry
