# SMALL BUSINESS TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `0642444cb6d0de18c0c0074df6206282`
`Mrs. CLINTON — 1 August 2007`

---


Mrs. CLINTON. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Washington for 
her usual very thorough and persuasive statement on the floor about the 
need for flexibility in this important program and the recognition that 
health care, similar to everything else, costs differently depending 
upon where you are in the country. I thank the Senator from Washington 
for reinforcing that important point.

The larger point is that today, in this Congress, we are on the verge 
of providing the greatest expansion of health coverage for our children 
since the creation of the Children's Health Insurance Program a decade 
ago. I believe--and I don't imagine anybody in this Chamber would argue 
with this belief--that every child deserves a healthy start in life. 
Certainly, we try to provide that healthy start for our own children, 
and we give a lot of lip service to the idea that we should provide it 
for all children. Yet far too many children in our Nation--more than 9 
million--do not have health care.

I was very proud to help create the State Children's Health Insurance 
Program during the Clinton administration, working on this legislation 
during my time as First Lady. After the bill passed, I worked to get 
the word out to try to help more children and their parents understand 
what this new program could mean for them and encourage them to sign up 
in the first few years. In the Senate, I have continued that effort, 
fighting to ensure that health care for children has the priority in 
our budget that it deserves.

Today, thanks to the work of so many, CHIP provides health insurance 
for 6 million children. In New York alone, almost 400,000 children 
benefit from this program every month. With the legislation that 
Chairman Baucus and Senators Grassley, Rockefeller, and Hatch helped to 
craft, an additional 50,000 children in my State of New York will have 
access to health insurance coverage.

This legislation will also help enroll many of the 300,000 children 
in New York who live in families who are already eligible because their 
families make less than $52,000 a year, 250 percent of the poverty 
level for a family of four.

In total, across our country, 3.2 million children who are uninsured 
will gain coverage. That will reduce the number of uninsured children 
by one-third over the next 5 years.

If we can afford tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas and 
tax cuts for oil companies that are making record profits, I certainly 
think we can find it in our hearts and our budget to help cover 
millions of children who deserve a healthy start.

I want to be clear. If the President vetoes this bill, he will be 
vetoing


health care for more than 3 million children. And, once again, the 
President will have put ideology, not children, first.

Earlier this year, I was proud to introduce legislation with 
Congressman John Dingell to reauthorize and expand CHIP, and I am very 
pleased that a number of the ideas in our bill are included in this 
legislation, such as cutting the redtape and bolstering incentives to 
get eligible children into the program.

The legislation also improves access to private coverage and expands 
access to benefits, such as mental health and dental coverage.

This is so important, and I applaud the Finance Committee, under 
Chairman Baucus's leadership. Mental health and dental coverage are too 
often left out when we talk about health care.

Not far from where I am standing, in the State of Maryland last year, 
a young boy, Deamonte Driver, had a toothache. His mother sought help 
for him to get dental care. She called dentists, but they were not 
taking any more children on Medicaid or on CHIP. Then she got help from 
a legal aid group that helped poor families. They called around. I 
think they called 27 or 28 dentists who said: Look, our quota for poor 
kids is filled.

Deamonte Driver's toothache turned into an abscess, and the abscess 
burst, infecting his bloodstream, and he ended up in the hospital where 
doctors valiantly tried to save his life from the brain infection that 
resulted from the abscessed tooth that had not been treated. This young 
man died.

When one thinks about the loss of a child over something that started 
as a toothache, it is heartbreaking, but it is not by any means an 
isolated case. At the end of Deamonte's life, the State of Maryland and 
the U.S. Government ended up paying hundreds of thousands of dollars 
for emergency care, for intensive care, for life support, to no avail, 
for want of $80 to $100 to find a dentist who would care for Deamonte.

I commend the authors of this bipartisan bill for their work and for 
bringing forward a practical, fiscally responsible compromise that will 
allow us to reauthorize this important program and expand coverage. I 
am eager to see that it is signed into law.

I am disappointed, however, that the bill we are considering this 
week fails to include the Legal Immigrant Children's Health Improvement 
Act, which I introduced with Senator Snowe. Senator Snowe and I have 
been working on this legislation for a number of years. This bipartisan 
bill would give States the flexibility to provide the same Medicaid and 
CHIP coverage to low-income legal immigrant children and pregnant women 
as is provided to U.S. citizens. I underscore that. We are talking 
about legal immigrant children and legal pregnant women.

I believe we should provide this flexibility to States because the 
current restrictions prevent thousands of legal immigrant children and 
pregnant women from receiving preventive health services and treatment 
for minor illnesses before they become serious. Families who are unable 
to access care for their children have little choice but to turn to 
emergency rooms, and this hurts children and pregnant women, plain and 
simple.

I urge my colleagues to support my amendment to lift the ban on 
Medicaid and CHIP coverage for low-income legal immigrant children and 
pregnant women.

I also am disappointed that some of my colleagues have expressed 
concern about States, such as New York, New Jersey, and others, that 
have chosen to cover children above 300 percent of the poverty level. 
The legislation we are considering on the floor of the Senate would 
allow New York to continue doing this and receive the CHIP matching 
rate. We should not punish children and their families who live in 
high-cost areas and who need health care coverage.

I encourage my colleagues to vote against any effort to undermine the 
extension of health care in high-cost States where it costs more, as we 
heard from Senator Cantwell in her statement on the floor, to provide 
the same coverage and treatment one would get elsewhere in our country.

I am proud we are debating a bill to expand health care to 3.2 
million children, but the fact is, there should be no debating the 
moral crisis of 9 million children without health care, no debating the 
moral urgency of strengthening our health care system for children and 
all Americans.

Ultimately, the answer will be in a cost-effective, quality-driven, 
uniquely American program that provides health care to every single 
man, woman, and child in our country. But until we get to that point, 
it is imperative that the Congress pass this bill before we go out for 
recess and send it to the President, with the hope that he will sign it 
into law.

I also wish to mention another issue we urgently need to address. 
Last week, the bipartisan Commission on Care for America's Returning 
Wounded Warriors, chaired by former Senator Bob Dole and former 
Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala, issued its final 
report on the need to reform the medical care that our troops and 
veterans receive.

The Commission found in an excellent report--it is not one of these 
commission reports that just takes up a lot of space on the shelf. It 
is very pointed, with six specific recommendations, and it found that 
one of the most important ways to improve care for injured 
servicemembers is to improve support for their families. That is why I 
introduced a bipartisan bill, the Military Family and Medical Leave 
Act, with Senators Dole, Mikulski, Graham, Kennedy, and Brown, to 
implement a key recommendation of the Commission. We have offered this 
as an amendment to the CHIP legislation.

The Family and Medical Leave Act was the first bill signed into law 
under the Clinton administration. It came about because of a lot of 
hard work, led by Senator Dodd in the Senate, and others, and it has 
proven to be enormously successful, helping more than 60 million men 
and women who try to balance the demands of work and family.


I believe it is time to strengthen the act for military families who 
find themselves in a very difficult situation. They should be given up 
to 6 months of leave to care for a loved one who has sustained a 
combat-related injury.

Currently, these spouses, parents, and children can receive only 12 
weeks of leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act. All too often, 
this is just not enough time, as injured servicemembers grapple with 
traumatic brain injuries, physical wounds, and other problems upon 
returning from Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere. In fact, 33 percent of 
active duty, 22 percent of reservists, and 37 percent of retired 
servicemembers reported to the Commission that a family member or close 
friend had to leave their home for extended periods of time to help 
them in the hospital. About 20 percent said family or friends gave up 
jobs to be with them to act as their caregiver. This is a step that we 
can take immediately that will make a real difference.

Many of us have been to hospitals in our own country--Walter Reed, 
Brook Army Medical Center--and other places in the world, such as 
Landstuhl in Germany, where we have seen our wounded warriors. There is 
absolutely no doubt that having the support, assistance, and comfort of 
a family member during that process when a young man or woman who has 
served our country is brought from the battlefield to the hospital 
makes a big difference in recovery and rehabilitation.

I think all of us agree that not only do our men and women in uniform 
make tremendous sacrifices on our behalf, so do their families. As a 
nation, we have a duty to provide them with the support they deserve.

Expanding access to health care for children and providing better 
support for our military families comes down to basic values that we as 
Americans hold dear. I think we all agree every child deserves a 
healthy start and every man or woman who wears the uniform of our 
country deserves more than words of support. The promise of America is 
rooted in these values, and I am very proud to support the bipartisan 
legislation expanding health care for children, and I urge my 
colleagues to join me and Senators from both sides of the aisle who are 
supporting our military families who are caring for those who have been 
injured in service to our country.

Finally, we hope on the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue there will 
be a


change of heart; that the President will decide to sign this 
legislation and relieve the burdens of ill health and inadequate access 
to health care that haunt the lives of so many American families.

Mr. President, please support this effort in every way possible by 
signing the legislation that will be sent to you.

I yield the floor.