---
---

# JEWISH AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH
## `06517be342a2bcf0537979dc0f333793`
`Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana — 26 May 2010`

---


Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana. Thank you very much. I want to thank my dear 
colleague from Florida and tell her what a vibrant and successful 
Jewish community we have in Indiana as well. We are very proud of our 
Jewish community there, and I want to thank you so much.

Mr. Speaker, as we near Memorial Day, I rise today also to offer some 
words in commemoration of those who gave their lives in the Armed 
Forces of the United States, in particular, three sons from the Second 
District of Indiana. This weekend, Members of this body will return to 
our districts and participate in Memorial Day parades and events that 
are a tradition of American life. People will picnic with their 
families, barbecue and watch parades, and people will honor our 
veterans and pay respects to those servicemembers who died in the line 
of duty in places large and small, in places like South Bend, Plymouth 
and Westville, Indiana.

Specialist Paul E. Andersen, an Army Reservist from South Bend, 
Indiana, died in action on October 1, 2009, by indirect fire from enemy 
forces. A 24-year veteran of the Armed Forces, Paul was competing his 
second tour of duty in Iraq.

A 1979 graduate of Buchanan High School just across the line in 
Michigan, Paul enlisted in the Army Reserves in 1985. After serving his 
first tour in Iraq, Paul met his future wife, Linda, at the home of a 
friend. They shared a love of country music, old movies, and strawberry 
milkshakes. Paul proposed marriage within just a few months, and they 
were married 3 weeks later.

Linda knew what the Army meant to Paul from the very beginning. When 
he reenlisted for 6 more years of duty, though, it was only after first 
seeking her consent.

When he asked her how she would feel if he opted to redeploy, she 
said, go ahead. ''I knew I married an Army man, he's my world, my life, 
my friend.''

In November of 2008, Paul served with the 855th Quartermaster Company 
from South Bend. Paul's mission in Iraq was to provide both shower and 
laundry services, as well as operating a clothing repair shop 
supporting coalition forces based in 10 different locations throughout 
the Iraqi theater. Without these crucial services that helped make life 
bearable for those fighting far from home, our soldiers would not have 
been able to perform their duties as ably as they do.

Paul will be remembered as a devoted husband, father, and 
grandfather. As a civilian, Paul worked at a tube and bending company. 
He loved to tinker with machines and was notorious among family members 
and friends for going overboard on the Christmas lights every year.

He lived a life full of love and joy. Specialist Andersen is survived 
by his wife, by six children, and by nine grandchildren.

Army Staff Sergeant Justin DeCrow of Plymouth, Indiana, died in a the 
tragic shooting at Fort Hood, Texas, on November 5, 2009. After 13 
years of extraordinary service to his Nation, Justin was taken from his 
family, friends, and comrades, and he will be forever missed.

Justin always wanted to be a soldier. He graduated from Plymouth High 
School in 1996, and after marrying his high school sweetheart, that 
spring he enlisted in the United States Army. He answered the call to 
serve his country because of an unfailing love of America and also the 
opportunity to make a life for his family in a career like no other.

Early on, he performed light vehicle maintenance. In 2000, Justin and 
his family moved to Evans, Georgia, after he was assigned to nearby 
Fort Gordon, where he was trained as a satellite operator.

He would later go on to work in that capacity in South Korea. Last 
September, Justin was assigned to the 16th Signal Company at Fort Hood. 
He had hoped to soon return to Fort Gordon to be with his family.

While at Fort Hood, Justin distinguished himself by training new 
soldiers. He will be remembered by his fellow soldiers as a mentor with 
an undeniable charm and quick wit, and by friends and family as a 
loving and devoted father and husband.

Justin is survived by his wife of 14 years, Marikay, their 13-year-
old daughter, Kylah, and two proud parents, Daniel DeCrow and Rhonda 
Thompson. He will be missed by them and by a grateful Nation forever in 
debt to a selfless man's kind heart and deep sense of service.

Marine Corps Lance Corporal Joshua Birchfield of Westville, Indiana, 
died in the Helmand Province of Afghanistan on February 19, 2010. After 
almost 2 years of accomplished service, Joshua was killed by small arms 
fire while on patrol during his first tour of duty in that country.

Josh graduated from Westville High School in 2004 and enlisted in the 
United States Marine Corps on April 18, 2008. He joined the marines 
after seeing a TV news segment focused on the hardships that military 
families endure when they are separated, especially during the 
holidays. Josh was deeply inspired by those who dedicated their lives 
in the service of others. He wanted to share that burden they were 
carrying on behalf of our Nation.

Lance Corporal Birchfield was stationed in Helmand Province as a 
rifleman with the Third Battalion, Fourth Marine Regiment, First Marine 
Expeditionary Force, based in Twentynine Palms, California.

For his service and support in Operation Enduring Freedom, Josh has 
been decorated many times, earning the Purple Heart, Combat Action 
Ribbon, National Defense Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Global War 
on Terrorism Service Medal, Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, and the NATO 
Medal. Joshua was a baseball enthusiast, and this coming weekend, I am 
proud that I will be there as the baseball field in Westville will be 
renamed in Josh's honor, a living memorial that will remain a place of 
joy and remembrance for years to come. And we all hope that we can live 
up to the example that Josh has given to all of us.


Joshua was also an inspiring hero to many in the tight-knit Westville 
community, and he will be remembered as a selfless and compassionate 
man. He is survived by both parents and sisters, extended family, and 
many, many friends.

We are forever in debt to these three great Hoosiers, all patriots in 
every


sense of the word and all brave Americans who have laid down their 
lives so that we may be safe, so that others might live without fear, 
and so that our country can remain safe and secure and strong.

Let us also remember today those brave Americans who are serving 
their Nation now here at home and in harm's way in places all around 
the globe. By choosing to serve their Nation in uniform, these sons and 
daughters, mothers and fathers, are continuing hundreds of years of a 
tradition of selflessness, excellence, and courage in protecting the 
freedoms and values we are blessed to enjoy as citizens of this beloved 
country.

Mr. Speaker, may the House of Representatives always do right by 
these fine men and their families, and may we never forget the price of 
freedom and those who have laid their lives down in service to this 
great Nation.