---
---

# REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE
## `0654d29b55c166c5ad9db1623f43e648`
`Mr. GINGREY — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. I thank my friend and classmate from Texas, 
Representative Neugebauer, and, of course, Mr. Speaker, I am very 
pleased to be here on the floor this evening with our colleagues and my 
classmate, Representative Pearce of New Mexico and Judge John Carter 
from Texas. And you'll hear soon from another classmate of ours from 
Iowa, Representative Steve King, and, of course, a new Member, but a 
very experienced one, Tim Walberg from Michigan.

It's an honor to be with them, Mr. Speaker, tonight, because this is 
a time really of victory for our men and women who are the patriots 
fighting this war in the Middle East. It's not a time for bragging, and 
we're not here to stick our finger in the eye of the Democrats and say, 
you know, you were wrong, you were wrong all along, and finally, after 
107 days, you have admitted you were wrong, and we have won this 
argument.

Actually, Mr. Speaker, it's been a tremendous loss for the country to 
go 107 days, or whatever it is, from the time the President asked for 
the money that the Department of Defense has requested to continue to 
conduct this war for the rest of this fiscal year, 2007, the $100 
billion with no strings attached, Mr. Speaker.

The Commander in Chief and the combatant commanders in the field and 
General Petraeus brought us a new way forward. It's what the American 
people wanted. It's what the Congress wanted. And our combatant 
commanders responded to that. And we put in place the highest-ranking 
four-star general on the ground in Iraq, General David Petraeus, who 
wrote the manual 6 months before on counterterrorism and knew and 
knows.



And it wasn't just his plan, but it was a plan that was worked out in 
combination with the Iraqi Government, with Prime Minister Maliki, and 
it called for essentially all of the things that the Iraq Study Group 
asked for. That report, Mr. Speaker, was a bipartisan report chaired by 
two very distinguished political public servants, the Honorable Jim 
Baker, Republican, the Honorable Lee Hamilton, a long-term member from 
Indiana, a Democrat, and this is exactly what the President tried to 
do. And yet the Democratic new majority wanted to insist on these 
benchmarks that weren't really performance benchmarks but they included 
a timetable, a timeline, for giving up no matter what the circumstances 
on the ground were. And the worst and most egregious of those, my 
colleagues, was to say that in August of 2008, just a little more than 
a year from now, that no matter what was happening in Iraq, even if it 
got like when Andrew Jackson had the British running down the 
Mississippi to the Gulf of Mexico, as the song goes, even if we were in 
that situation, winning this battle, in August of 2008, this Democratic 
majority wanted to blow the whistle and bring the troops home.

And I am telling you at this particular time, as we approach the 
Memorial Day weekend, what kind of message does that send to those who 
have given the last full measure of devotion in this war, and in any 
war, while the Democratic majority tries to get the last full ounce of 
political blood on the floor of this House? It is shameful, Mr. Speaker 
and my colleagues.

Every one of us have gone to some funerals in our districts. And I 
stand here tonight and I think about the Saylor family, Paul, their 
son, 22 years old from Breman, Georgia. I think about young Justine 
Johnson, another 22-year-old from Armuchee, Georgia, up in Floyd 
County. I think about the former president of my student body at my 
alma mater, the Georgia Institute of Technology, who 2 years after 
serving as student body president at that great institution, that first 
lieutenant gave his life in Iraq, shot down by a sniper while leading 
his troops. I think about Command Master Sergeant Eric Cooke, who 
served 30 years in the military, multiple deployments at the tip of the 
spear, and on Christmas Eve, 2003, my first trip to Iraq, one day after 
I met him and gave him some books and school supplies for the Iraqi 
children; he promised to deliver them, but, unfortunately, he took that 
right seat in a Humvee so that one of his troops


could stay home and call his wife and his family and talk to his loved 
ones on Christmas Eve. And Command Master Sergeant Eric Cooke gave his 
life one evening when that Humvee went over an improvised explosive 
device.

In the history of this country, we are about to honor those who have 
given their lives on Memorial Day, the last Monday in May. And at that 
time I think about and I want my colleagues to think back to World War 
I when Dr. McCrae wrote that poem ''In Flanders Fields.'' I am not 
going to try to quote the poem, although it is a very short poem, but 
the last stanza basically says don't forget it us. Just don't forget 
us. We fought the battle. Whatever the cause, you may not agree with 
it, but don't forget us.

And I think that is why we felt so strong. I commend this President 
for vetoing bad bills that would forget the troops and would let them 
die in vain.

So it is an honor to be here tonight to say thank you maybe to the 
Democratic majority for finally coming to your senses and letting the 
combatant commanders and the Commander in Chief fight the war. 
Certainly we could talk about policy and we can talk about funding but 
not with strings attached. Let's give victory a chance. And I think we 
have an absolute chance, as my colleagues pointed out, and some of the 
progress is being made. The news media, of course, doesn't report good 
news. Good news is an oxymoron, isn't it? So they don't talk about 
that. But thank you, colleagues, for letting me come tonight and talk 
about this.

I know if the troops are watching over in Iraq and Afghanistan, I 
think they are very proud that the Congress is supporting them and we 
are not going to pull the rug out from under them.

With that, I want to yield back to my colleague from Texas, Mr. 
Neugebauer. I know there are a couple of other speakers and I thank the 
gentleman for giving me the time.