---
---

# THE COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT
## `068efacae530ddcaf6dcff2d872063de`
`Mrs. LINCOLN â€” 17 September 2007`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, I was absent for the vote on September 7 
on final passage of the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007 due to an 
official trip that I took to Iraq with the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee. Had I been in Washington during the vote on final passage, I 
would have supported this important piece of legislation as I did when 
the Senate passed its version in July.

The rising costs of a college education have significantly increased 
the financial burden on college students and their families in recent 
years. The largest increase in higher education aid since the G.I. 
bill, the College Cost Reduction Act will increase student aid to low-
and middle-income students by $17.4 billion over the next 5 years. It 
also increases the maximum Pell grant by $500 to $4,810 next year and 
incrementally increases it until it caps at $5,400 in 2012. Further, 
the bill will help students manage their debt by capping student loan 
payments at 15 percent of their monthly income and reducing the student 
loan interest rate from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent. In addition, the 
legislation will create a pilot program that reduces the amount of 
federal subsidies paid to student lending institutions and redirects 
the funds directly to students. The result will save students real 
dollars, save taxpayers money, and inject competition into the loan 
program.

Increasing the number of college graduates is one of the best 
investments that we as a nation can make, and I am proud that this 
Congress has worked to make college a reality for more Americans. The 
improvements contained in this legislation will expand the options 
students have to attend college and pay for higher education for years 
to come. Moreover, it will improve the quality of life for our citizens 
and our economy by preparing our workforce for the demands of an 
increasingly competitive marketplace.