# None
## `0699bb20fd1c7be5b4abcfd7b36f12f4`
`Mr. HOLT — 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Chairman, I thank the distinguished chairman of the 
committee.

I have an amendment as part of this en bloc that would require the 
Secretary of Defense to ensure that members of the Individual Ready 
Reserve who have served at least one tour in either Iraq or Afghanistan 
receive a counseling call from properly trained personnel not less than 
once every 90 days to look at emotional, psychological, medical and 
career needs.

Mr. Chairman, the military personnel from the Secretary on down, and 
certainly the chairman of our committee, have devoted a great deal of 
attention to suicide prevention recognition and treatment. This is 
necessary because the IRR is one place where it is just too easy to 
fall through the cracks.

Coleman Bean of East Brunswick, New Jersey, enlisted in the Army in 
2001, attended Fort Benning, served with the 173rd Airborne. He served 
in Iraq. Afterwards, he sought treatment for post-traumatic stress 
disorder. Maybe the VA diagnosis should have been accepted by the Army. 
In any case, after he was discharged, like other Army members, he still 
had 4 years of Ready Reserve commitment. He was called back to Iraq, 
served, returned to New Jersey in May of 2008 and committed suicide in 
September of 2008. He fell through the cracks. He had no advocate, no 
Army machinery to help him find his way through the system. He was 
literally on his own.

Mr. Chairman, this amendment is to address what I think is a gap in 
our suicide treatment efforts to deal with the Individual Ready 
Reserve. I urge passage of this amendment.

