# SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF A NATIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR DAY
## `06a1e034318a13b24ad0181ed1b44e5d`
`Mr. JONES of North Carolina — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time 
as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, since I have been in Congress, America has presented 
this award on behalf of an extremely grateful Nation a total of 22 
times, 13 of which were presented posthumously.

Some recent heroes include Tibor ''Ted'' Rubin for actions in Korea, 
between 1950 and 1953. He received the award on September 23, 2005.

Before that, the medal was awarded posthumously to the family of SFC 
Paul R. Smith on April 4 of 2005. For his actions in Iraq in 2003, 
bravely holding the enemy at bay so that the wounded could be safely 
carried out.

Before that, the Medal of Honor was awarded posthumously to Army MSG 
Gary I. Gordon and SFC Randall D. Shughart for action in Somalia in 
1993.

Most recently, Cpl Jason Dunham, U.S. Marine Corps, was posthumously


recognized with the Medal of Honor on Thursday, January 11, 2007 for 
sacrificing his life for his fellow Marines. Corporal Dunham bravely 
fought hand-to-hand with the enemy and selflessly hurled himself on a 
live grenade to protect fellow Marines.

Just yesterday, President Bush awarded LTC Bruce P. Crandall the 
Medal of Honor in a White House ceremony. It was just this morning when 
several members of the DAV, Disabled American Veterans from my 
district, stated very simply, after meeting Colonel Crandall, and they 
said this was his comment when they said congratulations; thank you for 
what you did for our Nation. His comment was this, he just did what his 
country asked him to do. He was a volunteer.

Throughout the history, there have been 19 double recipients who have 
twice received this high honor.

Mr. Speaker, as this resolution so clearly states, the designation of 
a National Medal of Honor Day will raise the awareness of the American 
people regarding the significance and the meaning of the Medal of 
Honor, and help focus the effort on our national, State and local 
organizations striving to foster public appreciation and recognition of 
Medal of Honor recipients.

Mr. Speaker, the Medal of Honor has touched the lives, directly or 
indirectly, of millions of Americans, but there are many more firsts or 
lone recipients of this award. For example:

Douglas Munro was the only Coast Guard recipient. He was awarded the 
Medal of Honor for his actions at Point Cruz, Guadalcanal, on September 
27 of 1942.

Mary Walker was the only woman awarded the Congressional Medal of 
Honor at Bull Run on July 21 of 1861.

Today, Mr. Speaker, there are four Medal of Honor recipients 
currently living in the State of North Carolina. Throughout its 
history, there have been 19 Medal of Honor recipients from my great 
state of North Carolina.

Before I close, I would like to take just a couple of minutes, Mr. 
Speaker. There are many who have won this award, Medal of Honor, who 
are the heroes of this great Nation. One I would like to bring to mind 
is a friend of mine whose name is Walter Joseph Marm, Jr.

I will not read the entire citation. I just want to read part of it 
before I close.

Joe Marm, First Lieutenant, Army Company A, First Battalion, 7th 
Cavalry, 1st Cavalry Division (Airmobile). Place: Vicinity of la Drang 
Valley, Republic of Vietnam, 14 November 1965. Entered service at 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Born 20 November 1941.

And I want to read just two or three paragraphs from the citation, 
Mr. Speaker, as he received the Medal of Honor.

Realizing that his platoon could not hold very long, and seeing four 
enemy soldiers moving into his position, he moved quickly under heavy 
fire and annihilated all four.

Quickly, disregarding the intense fire directed at him and his 
platoon, he charged 30 meters across open ground and hurled grenades 
into the enemy position, killing some of the eight insurgents manning 
it.

Although severely wounded, when his grenades were expended, armed 
with only a rifle, he continued the momentum of his assault on the 
position and killed the remainder of the enemy.

Lieutenant Marm's selfless action reduced the fire on his platoon, 
broke the enemy assault, and rallied his unit to continue toward the 
accomplishments of this mission.

Lieutenant Marm's gallantry on the battlefield and his extraordinary 
risk of his life are in the highest traditions of U.S. Army and reflect 
great credit upon himself and the Armed Forces of this country.

With that, I thank the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Skelton) for this 
privilege to be part of this debate.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.