# LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT HATE CRIMES PREVENTION ACT OF 2007
## `06a2abfa2e75cb7a6c3d85117e294d70`
`Mr. SMITH of Texas — 3 May 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this motion to recommit is 
straightforward. It seeks to protect America's senior citizens and 
those who serve in our Armed Forces.

My colleagues on the other side contend that a new law is needed to 
cover crimes against persons based on race, gender, national origin, 
sexual orientation, gender identity and disability. The motion to 
recommit makes sure that seniors and our military personnel are added 
to the list of protected groups.

We all care greatly about the safety and security of our senior 
citizens. We all understand that they are particularly vulnerable to 
crime. Criminals who prey on our senior citizens because they are 
senior citizens should be vigorously prosecuted and punished.

The statistics paint a disturbing picture of violence against senior 
citizens in our country. A recent Justice Department study found that 
each year over the last 10 years, for every 1,000 persons over 65, four 
are violently assaulted. This includes rape, sexual assault, robbery 
and aggravated assaults. Approximately 65 percent of these crimes 
against senior citizens are committed by strangers or casual 
acquaintances. In my hometown, the San Antonio police report rising 
crime against the elderly, with over 6,200 crimes just this last year.

We were all horrified by the recent videotaped robbery in New York 
City committed against 101-year-old Rose Morat. Rose was leaving her 
building to go to church when a robber, who pretended to help her 
through the vestibule, turned and delivered three hard punches to her 
face and grabbed her purse. He pushed her and her walker to the ground. 
Rose suffered a broken cheekbone and was hospitalized. The robber got 
away with $33 and her house keys. Police believe the same man robbed an 
85-year-old woman shortly after beating Rose.

These are horrible crimes that strike fear into the hearts of 
America's senior citizens and make them wonder whether they will be 
victimized next.

This motion to recommit also adds the category of current or former 
members of the Armed Forces to the list of groups in this bill. We 
honor our men and women of the military because of their patriotism, 
their commitment to protecting our freedom and their service to our 
country. In times of controversy surrounding the use of our military, 
we have seen unfortunate acts by those who use their hostility towards 
the military to further their political agenda.

With the rising debate over the Iraq war, we are seeing increasing 
threats to Iraqi war veterans. Recently, a Syracuse woman pleaded 
guilty to spitting in the face of a Fort Drum soldier at an airport.

Mr. Speaker, Congress needs to make it clear to everyone that we 
honor our veterans and current members of our Armed Forces. Congress 
can make the message clear that hate of our Armed Forces will be 
punished at a heightened level, just like the other groups under this 
act.

If Congress rejects this motion to recommit, who will explain to the 
thousands of victims who are senior citizens or military victims that 
their injuries are less important than those of others protected under 
the hate crimes law? Are we really prepared to tell seniors and our men 
and women in uniform across our country that crimes committed against 
victims because of race, gender, national origin, sexual orientation, 
gender identity or disability are, as a rule, more worthy of punishment 
than those committed against seniors and military personnel?

Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to support this motion to recommit.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.