# CONSOLIDATED SECURITY, DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING
## `06a739bdac9e555d467002583624bf5f`
`Mr. LEVIN — 27 September 2008`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, this consolidated appropriations bill 
includes three important Fiscal Year 2009 appropriations bills, the 
Homeland Security appropriations bill, the Military Construction and 
Veterans appropriations bill, and the Defense appropriations bill. In 
addition, this bill includes funding for a number of other important 
programs, including nutrition and home energy assistance programs to 
ensure those most vulnerable who rely on these programs do not lose 
access to them.

Today many families are hurting from the current economic downturn 
and the rising food and energy costs. This bill includes additional 
funding for both the Nutrition for Women, Infants and Children, WIC, 
program and the Commodity Supplemental Food Program, CSFP, which 
provide assistance to children, low-income working families, and 
seniors. It is of vital importance that we continue these food programs 
for our Nation's least fortunate and most vulnerable.

I am pleased that the bill contains significant additional funding 
for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, or LIHEAP. This bill 
includes a total of $5.1 billion for LIHEAP, which is double the amount 
of funding provided in fiscal year 2008


and will serve an additional 2 million households and increase the 
average amount available per household. LIHEAP is a critically 
important program that was created to help low-income families, elderly 
individuals on a fixed income, and the unemployed pay their energy 
bills.

Even before recent and projected increases in energy prices, 
Michigan--like other States--started off with less funding in the 
current fiscal year than was required to meet the need. There have been 
significant efforts over the last couple of years to provide full 
funding for the LIHEAP program--consistent with that authorized by the 
Energy Policy Act of 2005--but these efforts have been thwarted by an 
administration unwilling to support this program at the necessary 
level. Therefore, I am particularly pleased today that the 
administration finally has joined the Congress in supporting this vital 
lifeline for many Americans.

This additional funding for LIHEAP is critically needed particularly 
as we head into the winter months. These funds need to be put quickly 
and directly into the hands of individuals who need them the most, 
which will both provide a vital safety net to these families and 
seniors and provide a benefit to the economy. Studies have shown that 
every LIHEAP dollar distributed generates up to 5 dollars of economic 
activity, thus helping to stimulate the economy.

I am also pleased that this legislation includes a significant 
increase in funding for the Department of Energy's weatherization 
assistance programs, providing close to $500 million for this program 
in fiscal year 2009. The Bush administration has consistently reduced 
funding for weatherization assistance in previous years and even 
proposed to eliminate it completely this year. But instead of 
decimating the program as proposed by the administration with, the 
increase provided in this bill, Congress will more than double the 
assistance provided by the Federal Government and help to weatherize an 
additional 100,000 homes. 

Congress has changed eligibility rules under the Pell Grant Program 
in order to afford more students larger grants. As a result, the Pell 
Grant Program will require a funding boost from this year's funding to 
ensure each student's 2009-2010 Pell grant award level. The bill 
includes $2.5 billion above 2008 to prevent cuts in the Pell Grant 
award to students midway through the year.

I am particularly pleased that this appropriations bill includes 
funding to support up to $25 billion for loans to auto manufacturers 
and suppliers for retooling of facilities to produce advanced 
technology vehicles and their component parts. These loans were 
authorized as part of the 2007 Energy bill to assist companies in 
moving swiftly toward advanced technology. Since that time, the need 
for access to capital has become increasingly urgent due to the state 
of the economy and significantly changed market conditions.

In the midst of all the economic dark clouds that are in the sky, 
this is a significant bright spot that will help domestic manufacturers 
in moving forward with the advanced technology that we all want to see. 
The U.S. automotive manufacturing industry is facing huge challenges. 
They face a sputtering global economy, the economic downturn here at 
home, the credit crisis here at home, and the challenge of meeting new 
fuel economy standards that Congress enacted last year. The future 
viability of the auto industry depends on whether they are able to 
produce advanced technology vehicles that will reduce our consumption 
of oil and greenhouse gas emissions, be affordable for the average 
American, and ultimately save consumers money at the gas pump.

The funding that is part of this legislation will support loans that 
will be fully repaid with interest to the Federal Government and will 
not cost the taxpayers anything beyond the administrative costs. The 
benefit to the American people is that it will help to bring these 
advanced vehicle technologies more quickly into the marketplace and it 
will ensure that these vehicles and components continue to be 
manufactured in the United States by American workers for many years to 
come. In the near term, the availability of these loans for auto 
manufacturers and suppliers in my home State of Michigan and other auto 
manufacturing States will help ensure that we maintain existing auto 
and supplier jobs and stem the decline in American manufacturing.

Success in the area of advanced technology vehicles--such as hybrids, 
clean diesel, and plug-in hybrids--is critical to the future of 
Michigan-based auto manufacturers and suppliers and those in many other 
States. Most of these technologies were invented by our companies here 
in the United States, and we need to keep manufacturing them here and 
continue to lead the world in automotive innovation. These loans will 
help our companies stay competitive in the global marketplace. It is 
important to note that the loan program is open to all automakers and 
suppliers to retool their facilities to produce these vehicles and 
components. Some may be more in need than others--but it is open to 
everyone with a qualified technology. I want also to emphasize that 
these loans are available to suppliers and component manufacturers 
independently to develop and manufacture many of the technologies that 
will be assembled into advanced technology vehicles--technologies such 
as lightweight materials, batteries and battery systems, fuel cells, 
and other components that offer tremendous potential to improve fuel 
economy.

It is a significant accomplishment to have funding for these loans 
included in this appropriations bill. The next step in this process is 
for the Department of Energy to establish regulations to implement this 
program, and it is essential that it happen quickly. We need these 
regulations completed expeditiously in order to get money out the door 
to the manufacturers that need it to move forward with advanced 
technology vehicles and components.

The legislation significantly increases resources for border 
security, including $30 million for border interoperability 
demonstration projects. In 2007, I authored the legislation that 
established the International Border Community Interoperable 
Communications Demonstration Projects on the northern and southern 
borders. These projects will address the interoperable communications 
needs of police officers, firefighters, emergency medical technicians, 
National Guard, and other emergency response providers at our borders.

The bill also provides valuable funding for our first responders, 
rail and transit security FIRE Act grants, and SAFER grants.

The Defense appropriations section of the bill supports the 
operational needs of our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan and the ongoing 
transformation of the military. Small and large businesses and 
universities across State play a critical role in ensuring that our 
Armed Forces are equipped to meet the challenges of the 21st century. 
Especially in the areas of vehicle technologies, robotics, energy and 
manufacturing research and development, Michigan continues to lead the 
way.

The bill includes approximately $354.1 million for Army research on 
combat vehicle and automotive technologies. This includes work on 
systems to protect Army vehicles against rocket-propelled grenades, 
improvised explosive devices and explosively formed projectiles; 
advanced materials for combat and tactical vehicle armor; more 
efficient engines; fuel cell and hybrid electric vehicles; unmanned 
ground vehicles; computer simulations for vehicle design and training 
of Army personnel; and technology partnerships with the automotive 
industry. This research is performed and managed by the Army Tank and 
Automotive Research, Development and Engineering Command, TARDEC, and 
its National Automotive Center, NAC, both located in Warren, MI. TARDEC 
is the leading laboratory for research and development of advanced 
military vehicle technologies for the Department of Defense, DOD.

The bill also includes funding for the programs of the Army's TACOM 
Life Cycle Management Command, LCMC, in Warren. TACOM LCMC is the 
Army's lead organization for the development and acquisition of ground 
vehicle combat, automotive and armaments technologies and systems. 
TACOM LCMC-managed systems include the Abrams main battle tank, Bradley 
Fighting Vehicle, Stryker Armored Vehicle, Mine Resistant Ambush 
Protected Vehicle, and all Army tactical vehicles, such as the HMMWV,


FMTVs, and the Army's next generation of combat vehicles, known as 
Future Combat Systems.

There are nine military construction projects included in the 
MILCONN/VA division of the bill for Michigan, including $68.5 million 
for the Detroit Arsenal in Warren.

These funds are crucial for the needed construction and renovations 
necessary to accommodate the more than 1,000 personnel who will be 
transferred to the Detroit Arsenal. This bill will also provide much 
needed improvements at Camp Grayling, the Army Reserve Center in 
Saginaw, and Selfridge Air National Guard Base.