---
---

# None
## `06ae89daf28ce220de684177fb64ce3d`
`Mr. ROGERS of Michigan — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Michigan. Madam Speaker, I too want to extend my thanks 
and gratitude on behalf of a grateful Nation for the work and service 
behind closed doors, with the microphones and the cameras gone, that 
the gentleman from Michigan has given to the Intelligence Committee and 
the intelligence community, and his efforts to continue to fight for 
policy that keeps Americans safe.

Sir, I know America won't know of most of it, but please know that 
those of us that do have your back for the work that you've done. Thank 
you very, very much.

The face of terrorism is changing, and it's changing in a very rapid 
way. Years ago we sat down and we asked our intelligence officials to 
do very hard things. We said to go to dangerous places and talk to 
dangerous people, find out the information that we need, identify those 
who have done horrible things to this country, and help us bring them 
to justice.

It was the President of the United States at the time, George Bush. 
It was Nancy Pelosi who was sitting in the meetings, the intelligence 
meetings who said, Yes, that's the right policy. That's the right thing 
to do. And the battlefield has changed. It isn't just overseas anymore, 
where we write songs about our soldiers leaving the shores of the 
United States. The battlefield has come to us. It has killed U.S. 
citizens, and they attempt again and again to do that.

This bill is a disappointment. This bill is really offensive. This is 
a 2010 bill that will be practically irrelevant tomorrow. We are 
passing a bill that will be almost irrelevant tomorrow. There is no 
classified annex. You can't call this an intelligence bill that sets us 
on the right path with no classified annex. How can we congratulate 
ourselves for this?

There is more political cover in this bill than there is cover for 
the United States to go aggressively and pursue terrorism around the 
world. This bill protects the Speaker of the House, but it doesn't 
protect the CIA officers that all of us ask to do dangerous work around 
the world. Instead, they have to get lawyers and answer questions, the 
Department of Justice, after the President and this Congress said, Go 
do this for your country, for our safety, for our future. That's a slap 
in the face for the very people we have asked to risk their lives. 
They're not supposed to be facing a subpoena. They should be facing a 
crowd of cheering Americans saying, Thank you for your service in the 
difficult times this country faces in the war on terror. That is 
abandoned in this bill.

Tomorrow we are going to allow Guantanamo detainees to be transferred 
to the U.S. That provision is not in the bill. We all unified, said, 
This is a bad idea. Don't bring the best trained terrorists to the 
United States. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to say, That's an 
awful idea. And Americans say, Don't do it. There's a better way. This 
bill rejects that notion and goes to the very heart of why Americans 
are concerned about the direction of how we pursue terrorism in these 
days and in the days ahead.

It now treats foreign terrorists committing acts of terrorism against 
the United States with the same benefits as a United States citizen. 
What? Most Americans, the average Americans know you don't do that. 
They are enemy combatants. The battlefield might not be in Afghanistan. 
It might be on the seat of an airplane coming to the United States of 
America. The battlefield is no different because the results of death 
and terrorism and mayhem are the same.

We reject that in this bill and say, You know what, we are turning 
the page. We are going to treat those enemy combatants, those foreign 
terrorists, with all the benefits of a citizen of the United States.