---
---

# FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `06be40a2fabaa2d9aab82445dcdb499d`
`Mr. CONRAD â€” 14 December 2010`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, for a moment, I also want to note the 
passing of Richard Holbrooke, a distinguished ambassador, somebody who 
has played a key role in working on the policy towards Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Richard Holbrooke was a giant in American diplomatic 
history. Richard Holbrooke was a friend. I actually was with him the 
Sunday before he passed away and was shocked to learn that he had been 
stricken; even more shocked to learn that he passed away on Monday.

Richard Holbrooke leaves an extraordinary legacy of working for peace 
and for advancing the interests of this country. Richard Holbrooke will 
be missed.

Mr. President, I have come to the floor to discuss the tax extension 
package before us. I support this package because it will provide, I 
believe, a significant boost to the economy next year. It is necessary 
because the alternative would be a significant tax increase on millions 
of middle-class families in just a matter of weeks.

I recognize this package will increase the deficit over the next 2 
years, but we need to distinguish between what is the right economic 
policy short term and longer term. Short term, I don't think there is 
any question that this economy remains weak, unemployment stubbornly 
high, and that means we need to do more to provide liquidity in the 
short term. That does not mean that we should ignore the growing debt 
that is all around us. That is a longer term challenge, but it requires 
our urgent attention.

We need to put together a plan this year to deal with our deficits 
and debt. That is what the fiscal commission was all about that Senator 
Gregg and I pushed for, which has just recently concluded its work, 
with 11 of the 18 members endorsing a plan to reduce our debt by $4 
trillion.

Just as with that package, I do not agree with all elements of this 
package. In fact, part of this tax package I strongly oppose.

Most notably, I am opposed to those provisions that give overly 
generous tax reductions to the wealthiest among us in the estate tax 
area. But I understand that the President did what he had to do to get 
an agreement. This economy clearly remains in a fragile state and we 
can't afford to wait until we get everything we want. We cannot let the 
perfect be the enemy of the good. Too often in this Chamber, in this 
Congress, people insist on having it their way or take the highway. 
Unfortunately, that prevents us from doing things that are absolutely 
essential for the Nation.

Economists project that a failure to pass this package could reduce 
economic growth next year by as much as 50 percent. That would mean 
millions of jobs. So those who say, well, let's just scuttle this, have 
to think very carefully. What is the risk to the economy of the United 
States?

Just to review where we have come from, I believe the Federal 
response to the recession and the financial crisis has successfully 
pulled this economy back from the brink. I believe we were headed for 
financial collapse. Economic growth has returned--not as robustly as we 
would have liked, but nonetheless it has returned. In the fourth 
quarter of 2008, lest we forget, economic growth was a negative 6.8 
percent. In the most recent quarter, it was a positive 2.5. That is a 
remarkable turnaround.

The same can be seen on the job front. In January of 2009, the 
economy lost over 800,000 private sector jobs in 1 month. The next 
month we lost another 700,000 jobs; the next month, another 700,000; 
the next month, almost 650,000. Now we fast forward to today, November 
of 2010, and 50,000 jobs were created. That is a dramatic turnaround, 
and we can see for month after month after month that we now have 
positive job growth. This economy has turned in the right direction and 
has done so in quite a dramatic way.

We have also seen the rebound in the markets. The stock market hit a 
low of 6,547 back on March 9, 2009. We are now well over 11,000. So in 
economic growth, job creation, and the stock market, we have seen 
dramatic improvement as a direct result of TARP and the stimulus 
program.

This economy still remains too weak, too fragile, with unemployment 
stubbornly high at 9.8 percent. By the way, without TARP, without 
stimulus, the best economists in this country, including Alan Blinder, 
the former deputy chairman of the Fed, and the chief economist at 
Moody's, Mark Zandi, said without TARP, without stimulus, unemployment 
today would be 15 percent--8 million more people would be unemployed. 
Despite some who say they haven't worked, TARP and stimulus, I believe 
the evidence is quite clear they have worked.



But more needs to be done. As we enter the holiday season, we can't 
forget that one in six Americans are now unemployed or underemployed 
and so we must do more to create jobs.

In a recent speech to the European Central Bank, Federal Reserve 
Chairman Ben Bernanke went as far as he could go on the question of 
fiscal policy, and he urged Congress to do more to help the near-term 
economy, while at the same time taking steps to bring down long-term 
deficits. This is what he said:




 On its current economic trajectory, the United States runs 


 the risk of seeing millions of workers unemployed or 


 underemployed for many years. As a society we should find 


 that outcome unacceptable. Monetary policy is working in 


 support of both economic recovery and price stability, but 


 there are limits to what can be achieved by the Central Bank 


 alone. A fiscal program that combines near-term measures to 


 enhance growth with strong confidence-inducing steps to 


 reduce longer term structural deficits would be an important 


 complement to the policies of the Federal Reserve.


I think the Chairman has it right. He is clearly saying the Fed alone 
and its actions are not enough to keep the recovery going. Congress 
also needs to act. It needs to act in the near term by taking steps to 
generate economic growth, and it needs to act on the long-term 
challenge by putting in place a plan to bring down deficits and debt in 
the immediate term and in the longer term.

This package, the one before us, will ensure that middle-class 
taxpayers are not hit with a tax increase at the start of the year. It 
extends for 2 years all of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts. By the way, by 
far the most important thing for the economy is the middle-class tax 
cut. That is what is critically important to the economy. The tax cuts 
for the high end--we can either do or not do--in effect are mildly 
stimulative but, according to CBO, they have pretty low bang for the 
buck in terms of economic growth. That is the high end tax cuts--pretty 
low bang for the buck, according to the CBO.

This package also has the expanded child credit and earned-income tax 
credit for families, the American opportunity tax credit for college 
expenses, an alternative minimum tax fix--otherwise millions of people 
would be getting a tax hike completely unintended--and the R&D tax 
credit and other expiring provisions. This package, according to the 
best economic advice we can get, will help economic growth, will help 
job creation, creating additional jobs in the private sector next year.

The package also includes three critical measures to help the 
economy. It includes a payroll tax cut for working families. This will 
provide a 2-percentage point reduction in employees' Social Security 
payroll taxes; a worker with $40,000 in income would save $800. This 
measure is widely recognized as one of the most effective ways to boost 
near-term growth.

In fact, I asked CBO last year: What are the most effective steps we 
could take to promote economic growth. No. 1, interestingly enough, 
extend unemployment insurance. That is in this package. No. 2, a 
payroll tax holiday. That is in this package.

In fact, as I indicated, this package has an extension of 
unemployment insurance benefits at their current level for 13 months. 
This will prevent 7 million workers from losing unemployment in 2011. 
Economists also rank this measure as high on bang for the buck, as I 
indicated.

It also includes a business expensing provision allowing businesses 
to write off 100 percent of capital purchases in 2011. This is a useful 
incentive to get businesses to start spending again and could generate 
more than $50 billion in additional investment in 2011. And, again, CBO 
rated this measure as high on bang for the buck.

Here are some of the examples of the tax cut benefits provided by 
this package. A mother with one child with $20,000 in income will 
receive a $1,100 tax cut, a married couple with $40,000 of income will 
receive a tax cut of almost $2,000, and a married couple with two 
children with $60,000 of income will receive a tax cut of more than 
$3,300.

Mark Zandi, the chief economist for Moody's and a former adviser to 
Senator McCain's Presidential campaign, has examined the potential 
economic impact of this package. This is what he concluded:




 The fiscal policy compromise will be good for the economy 


 next year. The mandatory tax cuts and spending increases will 


 provide a substantial boost to growth in 2011, ensuring that 


 the still fragile economic recovery evolves into a self-


 sustaining economic expansion. The deal's surprisingly broad 


 scope meaningfully changes the near-term economic outlook.


That is according to Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody's.

For those who are concerned about the deficit, as I am, job one is to 
get this economy growing more strongly. That is job one. Then we have 
to pivot and deal with the long-term plan to deal with the deficit and 
the debt. As I noted previously, the one provision in this package that 
I particularly am unhappy with is the estate tax provision. I support 
the continuation of the 2009 level with an estate tax exemption of $3.5 
million for an individual, $7 million for a couple, and a rate of 45 
percent. At those levels only one-quarter of 1 percent of estates would 
be subject to any estate tax in 2011--one-quarter of 1 percent of 
estates would be affected. That means 99.75 percent of estates would be 
exempt from any estate tax under the provisions I am proposing and did 
propose in the budget.

Unfortunately, under the compromise package certain of our colleagues 
on the other side insisted that the exemption level be raised to $5 
million for individuals, $10 million per couple, with the rate of 35 
percent. This will reduce the number of estates subject to the estate 
tax to one-seventh of 1 percent. It adds about $20 billion to the cost 
of the package over 2 years, and it will do absolutely nothing to 
generate economic growth and to create jobs.

If made permanent, this provision would add $100 billion in lost 
revenue to the Treasury in the next 10 years--$100 billion more than 
the package that I proposed. I don't think that is fiscally 
responsible, I don't think it is wise, and I don't think it should be 
approved.

While we need to pass the overall package to give a near-term boost 
to the economy, we must also now pivot and deal with the Nation's 
growing debt. Gross Federal debt is already expected to reach 100 
percent of the gross domestic product of this country in 2011--well 
above the 90 percent threshold that many economists see as the danger 
zone.

One of our Nation's leading economists, Dr. Carmen Reinhart, came 
before the President's fiscal commission. She had recently coauthored a 
study of the impact of debt on more than 20 countries over the last 200 
years. She concluded that when government debt as a share of the 
economy exceeds 90 percent, economic growth tends to be about 1 
percentage point lower than if debt levels were not so high. But don't 
be misled by 1 point lower. That sounds like nothing. The economy is 
growing typically at 3/1/2/ percent. One point less would be about one-
third less economic growth. So we need to understand--the consequences 
of debt are lower economic growth for the future.

Our long-term debt outlook is even more serious. According to the 
Congressional Budget Office, Federal debt could rise on the current 
trend to almost 400 percent of GDP by 2054. That is a completely 
unsustainable course. I personally believe the deficit and debt 
reduction plan assembled by the President's fiscal commission, on which 
I served, could prove a way forward. Even though the plan did not 
receive the necessary 14 of the 18 votes on the commission to guarantee 
a vote in Congress, it did receive the support of 11 of the 18 
commission members, which is more than 60 percent of the panel. With 60 
percent here, we can pass anything. But on our Commission we required 
14 of 18 of the Commissioners to agree to assure a vote in Congress 
this year.


By the way, among the 11 who supported the plan, it was completely 
bipartisan: 5 Democrats, 5 Republicans, and 1 Independent. That outcome 
proved that Democrats and Republicans can come together to solve this 
challenge.

Here is a quick overview of the fiscal commission plan: It provides 
nearly $4 trillion in deficit reduction over the next 10 years. It 
lowers the deficit from 8 percent of GDP in 2011 to 2.3 percent in 2015 
and 1.2 percent in 2020. It stabilizes the debt by 2014 and then lowers 
it to 60 percent of GDP by 2023 and 40 percent of GDP by 2035. It 
reforms Social Security to ensure its solvency for


at least 75 years and puts the program on a more sustainable path 
beyond the next 75 years. And it includes fundamental tax reform, 
making the Tax Code simpler, fairer, and more efficient, while also 
raising more revenue for deficit reduction.

Now that we have a responsible and realistic bipartisan plan on the 
table and national attention is focused on the issue, it is up to 
Congress and the President to finish the job.

Tax reform may be the most important component of the fiscal 
commission plan. Here are the key elements included in the fiscal 
commission plan: It eliminates or scales back tax expenditures that are 
currently running $1.1 trillion a year and lowers tax rates. That will 
promote economic growth and dramatically improve America's global 
competitiveness. And it makes the Tax Code more progressive. The 
Commission's illustrative tax reform plan demonstrates how scaling back 
tax expenditures can lower rates.

This plan is a beginning. It has to become law in order to have its 
full effect. I hope very much our colleagues will consider supporting 
this plan, the tax plan before us, and the deficit reduction plan that 
needs to be an integral component of a long-term fiscal plan for the 
Nation.

I yield the floor.