---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `06c1a2dd94bc233969b82b7a5f28e388`
`Mr. SESTAK — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Mr. Speaker, having worn the cloth of this Nation for 31 
years, I am at the point where I just needed to say that no one can 
call this war in Iraq Bush's war, for it is ours, America's war. We are 
in this together. We Democrats need the Republicans if we are to end it 
without a failed Iraqi state, and they us. It is not just about getting 
out of Iraq; it should be about redeploying out of Iraq so that we can 
better ensure U.S. security elsewhere as we leave Iraq with relative 
stability.

This resolution has merit, but with less of a strategic plan for a 
successful end than the last Iraqi resolution, despite times that are 
now more dire in Iraq and, therefore, for us. But it is hopefully a 
step towards one, and therefore, it pushes us to know that we do need 
the Republicans and a new strategy so that together we can successfully 
end this conflict for our betterment.

I see the key as President Bush's statement that our commitment is 
not open-ended. We therefore now need to define how to end it together.

I will vote for this resolution, but express my reservation that it 
does lack defining how to achieve the end of an open-ended commitment 
by a winning strategy. That is why we ultimately need the Republicans 
and they, us, to resolve the war successfully by a strategy to bring us 
to the end of an open-ended commitment.