---
---

# SCHEDULE
## `06cf1ba1624fb5f6135a158785edd737`
`Mr. DURBIN — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today the Senate will be in a period of 
morning business for 60 minutes, with the majority controlling the 
first half and the Republicans controlling the second portion.

Following morning business, the Senate will resume consideration of 
the water resources legislation. Several amendments were offered to 
this bill yesterday, and this morning one of those amendments--the one 
offered by the Senator from Oklahoma, Mr. Coburn, No. 1090--will be 
debated until 11:45, and then a vote will occur with respect to that 
amendment.

The Senate will recess, as usual, from 12:30 to 2:15 for the party 
conferences. Other votes with respect to amendments to the water 
resources legislation will occur this afternoon.

As the majority leader mentioned yesterday, a lot of work needs to be 
done prior to the Memorial Day recess, so Members should plan 
accordingly.

The majority leader has offered two amendments on the issue of Iraq, 
and cloture votes will occur on those amendments on Wednesday.

Additionally, cloture was filed on the motion to proceed to the 
immigration legislation. That vote will occur at a time to be 
determined on Wednesday.

I am certain every Member of the Senate is conscious of the fact that 
we have a Memorial Day recess fast approaching at the end of next week. 
We have an ambitious goal we hope to reach by that time. We hope to 
deal with these outstanding pieces of legislation and to, of course, 
provide supplemental appropriations for the war in Iraq.

At the outset, I will say that the Water Resources Development Act, 
which Senator Boxer of California and Senator Inhofe of Oklahoma will 
bring to the floor in a few moments, is a bill that has been pending 
before the Congress for, I believe, 7 years--at least 6 years. Our 
failure to enact this bill has delayed the construction of critical 
infrastructure across America for 6 or 7 years. This is infrastructure 
that is important to every part of America--in the Midwest, dams on the 
Mississippi and Illinois Rivers, which are vital arteries when it comes 
to agribusiness and other uses to create profitability and employment. 
All of these are in a state of disrepair, and we want to address the 
modernization and safety measures for these locks and dams and many 
other projects.

For 6 or 7 years, the debate has gone on unresolved. The House passed 
overwhelmingly the Water Resources Development Act. The Senate has the 
same opportunity, but we need to do it on a timely basis.

I thank the Senator from Oklahoma, who is offering an amendment this 
morning. I am told by the manager of the bill, Senator Boxer, that he 
has been cooperative in terms of reducing the debate time, giving 
enough time to explain his amendment, for others to speak to it, and 
bring it to a vote.

I urge every other Senator that this is the day; if you have an 
amendment to the Water Resources Development Act, bring it to the floor 
today. After 2:15, bring your amendments to the


floor. Let's have the debate and have the vote. By the end of the day, 
let's have all of the relevant amendments considered to this 
legislation. I think we owe it to the people who have worked so hard to 
bring us to this moment, and now individual Senators should know that, 
to delay this, there is no excuse. Bring the Water Resources 
Development Act amendments to the floor.

In addition, the majority leader filed two amendments relative to the 
war in Iraq, which will be considered on a procedural basis to this 
Water Resources Development Act. It is a way to measure the sentiment 
of the Senate on two different approaches to resolving our difficulties 
between the White House and Congress on the funding in Iraq. There will 
be a cloture vote on those amendments tomorrow. That is an opportunity 
for Members to express their feelings.

As everybody knows, it takes 60 votes to invoke cloture. We hope we 
will have a strong bipartisan vote for one of those two approaches. I 
urge my colleagues to understand this is a very important and timely 
matter. We have little time left to deal with the requirements of 
funding our troops before the Memorial Day recess. The Democratic 
majority, as well as the Republican side, has made it clear we will 
fund our troops. At the end of the day, our troops will not go without 
the resources they need to provide for their own safety and a safe 
return home.

Also, we hope this week to initiate a conversation on the immigration 
bill.
