# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `06cf271e708b7a00f9ceadacfc2c672d`
`Mr. JOHANNS — 19 May 2009`

---


Mr. JOHANNS. Mr. President, I rise today to commend President Obama 
on his recent decision to continue military commissions at Guantanamo 
Bay. I think the decision shows the President's realistic assessment of 
the value of the commissions. Resuming them will also ensure that 
justice will be brought to the suspected terrorists currently awaiting 
the commission. The President has also shown an invigorating commitment 
to winning the war in Afghanistan, and he has resisted brash decisions 
to exit Iraq before the security situation has been fully stabilized.

However, today, I must temper my comments with an admonition. The 
President needs to reverse his order to close Guantanamo Bay. We are 
all familiar with the President's Executive order. It was signed in the 
first hours of his Presidency. It announced the closure of the prison 
within 1 year. To say the Executive order is short on detail is an 
understatement. We have learned that the Justice Department is 
reviewing the cases of the individual detainees and that the President 
would like to move the detainees somewhere else. That is really all the 
Executive order tells us.

About 240 detainees are now being held at Guantanamo Bay. The 
administration claims that not every detainee is a terrorist and that a 
few are kept at Guantanamo simply because other countries are very slow 
to accept them. Well, let me tell you, in my judgment, that speaks 
volumes about the character and the fitness for society of these 
detainees. Other countries are literally dragging their feet in 
accepting them. In April, the President of France famously agreed to 
accept one detainee. A number of countries, such as Germany and 
Lithuania, have only said they will consider accepting detainees, 
despite the Attorney General's round-the-world tour to ask our allies 
to accept more.

Let's assume the administration's projection that only half of the 
detainees there would be considered terrorists. Well, that is 120 
terrorists who would be brought to facilities on our soil; 120 
terrorists who would entice their brothers in arms worldwide to make 
every effort to break them out or at least wreak havoc on places where 
they are jailed; 120 terrorists whose trials and hearings will cause a 
community to virtually lock down every time they have to be transported 
from point A to point B.

Last Friday, I had the opportunity to actually go to Guantanamo and 
visit the prison. Having seen the facilities, I am more confident than 
ever that we should keep Guantanamo operating.

On my visit, I saw firsthand the treatment detainees receive there. 
The facilities there rival any Federal penitentiary. Detainees receive 
three meals per day that adhere to cultural dietary requirements.

They stay in climate-controlled housing with beds. It was a warm day 
when we were there. Their housing is air-conditioned. They have 
flushing toilets and had all of the hygiene items we would use, such as 
toothbrushes, toothpaste, soap, and shampoo. They have the opportunity 
to worship uninterrupted. They are provided prayer beads, rugs, and 
copies of the Koran. The Muslim call to prayer is observed in the camps 
five times a day, followed by 20 minutes of uninterrupted time to 
practice their faith. In fact, we happened to be there during the call 
of the prayer, and the camp literally shuts down to allow them to have 
that time. They have access to satellite TV and a library with more 
than 12,000 items in 19 languages, including magazines, DVDs, and 
Arabic newspapers. I will bet their big-screen television--really 
state-of-the-art television--is bigger than most in the average home in 
America.

Most remarkable, though, is the medical care provided to detainees at 
Guantanamo. Most people don't realize this, but detainees receive the 
same quality of medical care as the U.S. servicemembers who guard them. 
They have access to medical care anytime they need it, and there is a 
two-to-one detainee-to-medical-staff ratio. They get preventive care, 
such as vaccinations and cancer screenings. In addition to routine 
medical care, detainees have been treated for preexisting medical 
conditions, even to the extent of receiving cancer treatment or 
prosthetic limbs. This is likely better treatment than they would 
receive in their home countries.

The courtroom constructed at Guantanamo was designed specifically to 
deal with military commissions. I am a lawyer myself, and I have to 
tell you that I have never seen anything like this. To say that it is 
state of the art is to understate the quality of that courtroom. I will 
tell you that I am convinced there is not another courtroom anywhere in 
the world with better equipment than what we have installed at 
Guantanamo.

To top it all off, earlier this year, the Vice Chief of Naval 
Operations reviewed conditions at Guantanamo and issued a report that 
the detainees' confinement conformed to the Geneva Conventions. Despite 
public perception, no detainee has ever been waterboarded at 
Guantanamo.

Why would we throw away a $200 million, state-of-the-art facility 
just to meet an artificial deadline in 2010 that I think really 
originated from an uninformed campaign promise?

These are very dangerous people being held at Guantanamo. These are 
not a couple of teenagers who robbed a corner convenience store. There 
are 27 members of al-Qaida's leadership cadre currently housed at the 
prison, plus 95 lower level al-Qaida operatives, which combined is 
about half the prison population at Guantanamo. There are also scores 
of Taliban members and foreign fighters.


There was a survey that was done awhile back--it was released in 
April--and it indicated that 75 percent of Americans oppose releasing 
Guantanamo detainees in the United States, while only 13 percent 
support that. I am willing to bet the numbers opposing the transfer of 
prisoners to the United States would skyrocket even higher, although 
that is hard to imagine, if you told people that the terrorist 
detainees would be held in a prison near their town. But if moved to 
the United States, they have to be near some town.

The President submitted an $80 million funding request for the 
detainees to be transferred, despite having no plan outlining their 
destination. Fifty million dollars of the President's funding request 
would go to the Department of Defense to actually transfer the 
detainees from the prison. But we don't know where. This lack of a plan 
and lack of transparency deeply disturbs me.

Alarmingly, two of the sites on U.S. soil that some speculate would 
house transferred detainees are at Fort Leavenworth, KS, or the 
supermax facility in Colorado. Both facilities are within 250 miles of 
the Nebraska border. That alarms me and my constituents. That is why I 
sent a letter to Attorney General Holder on April 23 requesting a 
personal briefing before any decision is made to move current 
Guantanamo detainees within 400 miles of Nebraska's borders.

But simply being notified that detainees are about to be transferred 
won't suffice. That amounts to telling the passengers to hold on before 
the bus crashes. It is for these reasons that I believe we should deny 
funding to transfer detainees and in fact not close the prison at 
Guantanamo. It is for these reasons that I support S. 370, the 
Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility Safe Closure Act of 2009, introduced 
by the senior Senator from Oklahoma.

The bill prohibits Federal funds from being used to transfer any 
detainees out of Guantanamo to any facility in


the United States or its territories. It also prohibits any Federal 
funds from being used for the construction or enhancement of any 
facility in the United States in order to house any detainee. Finally, 
it prohibits any Federal funds from being used to house or otherwise 
incarcerate any detainee in the United States or its territories. It 
will keep our communities safe by preventing terrorists from being 
thrust into our cities and towns.

I will close by reminding Senators that in 2007, the Senate voted 94 
to 3 to express its opposition to moving Guantanamo detainees to U.S. 
soil or releasing them into American society. President Obama's 
Executive order to close the prison at Guantanamo demonstrates his 
intention to ignore the will of the Senate and the American people. 
Despite an overwhelming vote, the administration apparently still plans 
to bring terrorist detainees from Guantanamo near our communities.

I hope we have the opportunity to once again address this issue. 
There is a pending amendment which I support. But I also urge the 
President to reconsider his decision to close the prison. I encourage 
my colleagues to support the amendment that is before this body to deny 
funding for closing the prison.

I look forward to a robust debate on this issue as we delve into this 
very important matter. Amendments will be offered. I think this is the 
most important issue we are going to face in a long time. Action to 
close the prison and move these people here is unacceptable. It is 
unthinkable to the American public. We must yield to their collective 
wisdom and hear their call. Anything else would be a grave mistake.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.