# None
## `06d2f6b000b3f6046fe638cae4c6f326`
`Ms. PINGREE of Maine — 10 March 2010`

---


Ms. PINGREE of Maine. Thank you very much to my good friend from 
Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern) for yielding me the time, for his 
excellent opening statement, and for his response to


our colleague from the Rules Committee as well. And I thank him for 
being here today.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this rule and the underlying 
concurrent resolution. It is a rare occurrence that Members of this 
body have the opportunity to devote 3 hours of debate to such an 
important issue, and it is even more unusual that Members are given a 
chance for a clean up-or-down vote on ending the war in Afghanistan. 
Each time an emergency war supplemental, a Defense appropriations bill 
or a Defense authorization bill has come to the floor, continued 
funding for the war in Afghanistan is hidden behind spending to create 
jobs, to provide humanitarian relief or to increase medical benefits to 
our troops, all of which I support. And privileged resolutions like 
this, which exercise the constitutional right of the United States 
Congress to decide whether or not to continue the use of the military 
force, rarely sees the light of day.

This country has spent over $250 billion, Mr. Speaker, on the war in 
Afghanistan. The share of my home State of Maine is almost $700 
million. And in the next few months, the administration will likely ask 
this Congress to spend another $30 billion to fund a surge of troops in 
Afghanistan. At a time when we cannot find $30 billion to create jobs, 
continue unemployment benefits or help small businesses, we need to ask 
ourselves, Is the cost of this war worth it? Is it right to spend more 
money and lose more lives on a strategy that isn't working? Can we 
afford to turn our backs on the challenges we face at home and to 
pursue failed policies abroad?

I am an original cosponsor of this concurrent resolution because I 
firmly believe this war needs to end. We have asked our men and women 
in uniform to return to combat again and again. They have fought with 
bravery and helped the people of Afghanistan with compassion. They have 
risen to meet every challenge and paid every price to defend this 
country. But the cost of this war is too high. The economic situation 
in the country is too dire, and the lives of our brave men and women in 
uniform are too precious for this war to go on and for this issue to be 
muddled and tucked away in large spending bills.

It is time to end the war in Afghanistan and bring our troops home. 
It is time for this Congress to demand an open debate on Afghanistan 
and a clean vote on any future bills that fund this war. I ask my 
colleagues to join me in supporting this rule and the underlying 
concurrent resolution.