# IN MEMORY OF PETTY OFFICER MICHAEL ANTHONY MONSOOR
## `06dadb2a460424f1d7f7ca09269d2f42`
`Mr. HUNTER — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor and pay tribute to 
the life and memory of former Petty Officer Second Class Michael 
Anthony Monsoor, who has been awarded this Nation's highest military 
honor, the Medal of Honor. A California native, Michael courageously 
gave his life in the service of his country, upholding and reflecting 
the highest traditions of the United States Navy.

Born April 5, 1981, in Long Beach California, Michael attended Garden 
Grove High School where he played football. He enlisted in the U.S. 
Navy on March 21, 2001 and attended Basic Training at Recruit Training


Command, Great Lakes, Illinois. After graduation, he attended 
Quartermaster School and then transferred to the Naval Air Station, 
Sigonella, Italy, for a brief period.

From this assignment, Michael entered Basic Underwater Demolition/
SEAL (BUD/S) training in Coronado, California, where he graduated as 
one of the top performers in his class. After BUD/S training, he 
completed advanced SEAL training, including parachute training, at 
Basic Airborne School, Fort Benning. Georgia, and cold weather training 
in Kodiak, Alaska.

Following his rating as Master-at-Arms, he was assigned to SEAL Team 
THREE Delta Platoon and deployed with his platoon to Iraq in April 2006 
in support of Operation IRAQI FREEDOM, and was subsequently assigned to 
Task Unit Bravo in Ar Ramadi. From then until September 2006, Michael 
served as a heavy weapons machine gunner and, during combat patrols, he 
walked behind the platoon point man with his Mk 48 machine gun as 
protection against a frontal assault. On 15 such missions Michael 
served tirelessly with his platoon in one of the most hazardous areas 
in Iraq and, under the rendering of summer heat, he bore the extra 
burden of heavy communication gear and a full ammunition load.

Michael and his platoon operated in a highly contested part of Ramadi 
city called the Ma'laab district. During their deployment he and his 
fellow SEALs came under enemy attack on 75 percent of their missions. 
On May 9, 2006 Michael rescued a SEAL who was shot in the leg. He ran 
out in the street with another SEAL, shot cover fire and dragged his 
comrade to safety under intense enemy fire earning a Silver Star for 
gallantry.


But Michael's bravery did not end with this brave act. His Medal of 
Honor Citation reflects that on September 29, 2006, ''as a member of a 
combined SEAL and Iraq Army sniper overwatch element, tasked with 
providing early warning and stand-off protection from a rooftop in an 
insurgent held sector of Ramadi, Iraq, Petty Officer Monsoor 
distinguished himself by his exceptional bravery in the face of grave 
danger. In the early morning, insurgents prepared to execute a 
coordinated attack by reconnoitering the area around the element's 
position. Element snipers thwarted the enemy's initial attempt by 
eliminating two insurgents.''

''The enemy continued the assault engaging the element, engaging them 
with a rocket-propelled grenade and small arms fire. As enemy activity 
increased, Petty Officer Monsoor took position with his machine gun 
between two teammates on an outcropping of the roof. While the SEALs 
vigilantly watched for enemy activity, an insurgent threw a hand 
grenade from an unseen location, which bounced off Petty Officer 
Monsoor's chest landing in front of him. Although he could have escaped 
the blast, Petty Officer Monsoor chose instead to protect his 
teammates. Instantly and without regard for his own safety, he threw 
himself onto the grenade to absorb the force of the explosion with his 
body, saving the lives of his two teammates.''

''By his undaunted courage, fighting spirit, and unwavering devotion 
to duty in the face of certain death, Petty Officer Monsoor gallantly 
gave his life for his country, thereby reflecting great credit upon 
himself and upholding the highest traditions of the United States Naval 
Service.'' For this the most extreme sacrifice, Petty Officer Michael 
Anthony Monsoor was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor by the 
President of the United States on April 8, 2008.

An ancient historian once wrote, ''The bravest are surely those who 
have the clearest vision of what is before them, glory and danger 
alike, and yet not withstanding, go out to meet it.'' Madam Speaker, 
these words could speak no better for the personal commitment of 
warriors like Petty Officer Monsoor whose service and sacrifice in the 
face of evil cannot be forgotten.

Michael is survived by his mother Sally, his father George, his 
sister Sara and his two brothers James and Joseph who will always 
cherish the memories of his loving and caring devotion to all that 
touched his life. A loyal friend and an exceptional SEAL, he is sorely 
missed by his brave brothers in Task Unit Bravo. I extend my prayers 
and deepest condolences to his loving family and friends and ask that 
my colleagues join me today in paying tribute to the life and memory of 
this true American hero.
