---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `06e132e44f97bf0616730682924c84c3`
`Mr. CASEY — 22 December 2010`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, as we continue to work through the 
amendments, I rise to outline what is at stake in the debate and 
describe what the world would be like without the New START treaty 
accord.

Every Senator here took an oath to support and defend the 
Constitution against all enemies foreign and domestic. We have an 
obligation to support a strong national defense.

First, a world without New START is one in which more nuclear 
missiles are pointed at Americans. This treaty reduces that number.

A world without a New START accord is one in which we have no nuclear 
inspectors on the ground in Russia. These inspectors have more than a 
decade of experience inspecting Russian nuclear sites. They were 
involved in the negotiation process to ensure that there are strong 
inspection provisions in the treaty. But without New START, these 
inspectors would not be able to return to work. Furthermore, without 
onsite inspections, our intelligence services will still be required to 
collect information on Russia's nuclear weapons infrastructure.

On December 20 of this year, ADM Mike Mullen, Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, wrote to the Senate:




 An extended delay in ratification may eventually force an 


 inordinate and unwise shift in scarce resources from other 


 high priority requirements to maintain adequate awareness of 


 Russian nuclear forces.


In a world without New START, our intelligence capabilities will be 
stretched, which could give the enemies of our troops on the ground an 
advantage. We cannot allow that to happen.

These are just some of the direct effects. What about some of the 
indirect effects of a world without New START? The cascade effect on 
U.S. national security interests without New START is substantial.

A world without New START is one in which the Russians are less 
likely to provide land and air access to supply U.S. troops in 
Afghanistan. The Northern Distribution Network is a crucial supply 
route for our troops in Afghanistan. This means that just as we have 
reached full troop strength in Afghanistan, supply lines would become 
increasingly strained. Today, supply routes through Pakistan are 
increasingly dangerous. Just the other day, two fuel tankers meant to 
supply our troops were attacked and the drivers were killed in 
Pakistan. This is one of the reasons the leadership of our uniformed 
military want New START ratified.

A world without New START is one in which there is more Russian 
fissile material in existence, material which could be stolen for use 
in a terrorist attack.

There are many reasons top U.S. counterterrorism officials in the 
International Atomic Energy Agency want New START ratified.

A world without New START is one in which Russia's Government is 
perhaps less likely to help stop Iran's nuclear weapons program. A 
world without New START is one in which Iran perhaps is given access to 
Russian S-300 missiles, a weapon capable of reaching the State of 
Israel. This is one reason the Anti-Defamation League, B'nai B'rith, 
the American Jewish Committee, and other prominent pro-Israel groups 
want New START ratified.



In a world without New START, there is no way the Russians will agree 
to decrease their tactical nuclear weapons. Our friends in Eastern 
Europe and those across the continent will be less secure in the 
knowledge that threats to their security are not diminishing but could, 
in fact, be growing. That is the reason 25 European Foreign Ministers 
want this treaty ratified.

A world without New START is one in which the 1970 Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty, the so-called NPT, the cornerstone of preventing 
nuclear weapons states, is severely threatened. What does this mean in 
practical terms? The New START accord is a clear demonstration that the 
United States is upholding our obligations under the NPT, which in turn 
can help secure support from other countries for a strong arms control 
regime and assistance on other nonproliferation issues. Many countries 
see nuclear terrorism as a problem for the United States and for the 
West. In a world without New START, these countries would seriously 
question our commitment to the NPT. These countries would question that 
right away.

Without New START, government officials around the world will 
question the U.S. commitment to nonproliferation itself. They will ask: 
If the United States is not seriously committed to arms control and 
nonproliferation, why should we be?

A world without New START contains many hard realities for the United 
States. Ratification of this treaty is not a political victory for one 
party or another; it is a national security victory for our great 
Nation, for our nuclear security--from nuclear security, to the 
security of our troops in Afghanistan, to the security of our ally 
Israel.

A world without New START is one in which the enemies of America will 
breathe a little easier. Strained U.S. supply lines make life easier 
for the Taliban. Fewer available intelligence capabilities would make 
life easier for al-Qaida terrorists in Pakistan tribal areas. A 
strained U.S.-Russian relationship makes life easier for the government 
of the regime in Iran.

A world without New START makes life easier for terrorists 
trafficking in fissile material to travel across borders.

A world without New START means no negotiations with the Russians to 
decrease their tactical nuclear weapons.

The world I just described isn't a world we have to settle for. A 
world without New START is not a world we have to accept. We must give 
the American people some peace of mind as to our national security. 
That is a world with a New START treaty. We must ratify this treaty and 
diminish the number of nuclear weapons pointed at the United States 
today. We must deploy nuclear inspectors to Russia, thus returning 
stability and transparency to our nuclear relationship, and take the 
burden off of our intelligence agencies.

A world with New START means a more constructive relationship with 
Russia, which is good for our troops in Afghanistan and bad for the 
regime in Iran.

A world with New START means the beginning of a conversation with the 
Russians on tactical nuclear weapons.

A world with New START is one in which there is less fissile material 
for terrorists to steal or buy on the black market.

A world with New START means increased cooperation with countries 
combating nuclear terrorism. The most serious threat to U.S. national 
security is the threat of nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists. 
In 1961, at the United Nations, President John F. Kennedy said:




 Every man, woman and child lives under a nuclear sword of 


 Damocles, hanging by the slenderest of threads, capable of 


 being cut at any moment by accident or miscalculation or by 


 madness.


Some have observed that in this post-9/11 era of increased terrorism, 
we may be more vulnerable to a nuclear attack than we were during the 
Cold War. Today, the sword of Damocles still hangs by the slenderest of 
threads, but we have the ability to prevent this threat by minimizing 
access terrorists would have to nuclear material.

President Obama's nuclear security summit earlier this year was a 
historic event. It helped create a foundation upon which other 
countries will take up the challenge of nuclear security and cooperate 
with the United States to accomplish the President's goal of securing 
all fissile material in 4 years. We cannot do this alone. In order to 
confront this most serious threat to U.S. national security, we need to 
build stronger ties with our allies around the world, and part of 
building that trust is rebuilding our own credibility on 
nonproliferation issues. This New START agreement is a very positive 
step in that direction. It is an essential predicate for fulfilling our 
commitments under the nonproliferation treaty--a key marker for many 
potential allies on a range of nuclear security issues. Upon 
ratification of New START, we must make progress on securing fissile 
material around the world.

This is a strong resolution of ratification. It passed out of the 
Foreign Relations Committee by a bipartisan vote of 14 to 4. It 
includes strong language on missile defense, verification, and tactical 
nuclear weapons.

Finally, the American people are watching. According to a November 
2010 CNN poll, 73 percent of Americans support ratification of this 
treaty. They understand the implications of a world without the New 
START agreement.

In a hurricane of partisan rancor and political battles, the national 
security consensus is as strong as an oak tree in support of the New 
START agreement--all six living former Secretaries of State, five 
former Secretaries of Defense, three former National Security Advisers, 
seven former commanders of the U.S. Strategic Command, the entire Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, our intelligence services, the President, and three 
former Presidents.

The American people have a right to expect ratification of New START. 
They want New START and will hold us accountable if we do not ratify 
it. Let's vote for New START's resolution of ratification and cast a 
strong bipartisan vote in favor of our national security.

I close with commendations for both our chairman, Senator Kerry, and 
Ranking Member Lugar and so many others who have worked so hard to make 
sure we can ratify this treaty.

I yield the floor.