---
---

# MEDICARE PHYSICIAN PAYMENT REFORM ACT OF 2009
## `06e7c533efcf2e612991cdfbe928d1e1`
`Mr. STARK — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, I would like to place in the Record a letter 
from the American Medical Association and a list of over 150 supporters 
of H.R. 3961, among which are the American College of Obstetricians and 
Gynecologists, the Iowa Medical Society, the Texas Medical Society, all 
of whom I think place Hippocrates ahead of Sarah Palin in terms of 
their assessment of what should be done.

I would further begin in addressing my dear friend from Texas in some 
of his inquiry earlier by quoting from the ranking member of the Health 
Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee back last July when he 
said he believed Members on both sides of the aisle agree that there is 
a need for a long-term fix for the Medicare physician payment. All 15 
members, Republican members, of the Ways and Means Committee voted 
basically for the fix we're talking about today.

Let me make no mistake about blame and where we are. It may come as a 
surprise to our side of the aisle we make mistakes. In 1997 we made a 
mistake in setting the formula by which we would automatically limit 
the increase that doctors get paid. Well, we're here today trying to 
correct that mistake.

You've said so, correctly, that it's the same formula plus 2 percent 
for primary care, 1 percent for other physicians, some other plans to 
help encourage primary care doctors to come into practice. Hopefully, 
we've done it right, and recognizing if we don't correct it, we're 
talking about hundreds of billions of dollars by postponing. So we have 
postponed, whether on either side of the aisle, we have postponed 
correcting a mistake that we should have done earlier.

That's where we are today. No place else. And I hope that we can get 
the continued support to do that. I hope we don't have to come back and 
keep addressing it. I see not correcting it increases the amount we 
will have to pay in the future.

So there is plenty of blame, as the gentleman suggested, to go 
around. We could have fought harder to correct it earlier. We didn't 
and that's where we are today.

Literally every major medical society in the country has suggested 
that we do it this way, and I urge my colleagues to join with me, 
hopefully with my 15 colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee who 
haven't changed their mind, and support H.R. 3961 today so we can put 
this behind us. Then we can go on and have some really spirited debate 
about whether they do a better job in Texas or California of reforming 
medical care. That will be more fun.

But today let's fix this. Pass H.R. 3961, go home and have a 
wonderful Thanksgiving holiday, and come back to work on health care 
reform.

















 American Medical Association,


















 Chicago, IL, November 19, 2009.


 Hon. Dave Camp,


 Ranking Member, House of Representatives,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Representative Camp: Thank you for your letter of 


 November 18, 2009, regarding the pending Congressional 


 consideration of H.R. 3961, the Medicare Physician Payment 


 Reform Act of 2009. We appreciate your agreement that having 


 physicians face annual cuts due to the flawed SGR is 


 unacceptable and your support for the intent of the 


 legislation. As you know, it is the same policy supported by 


 every Republican on the Ways and Means Committee during the 


 mark-up of H.R. 3200.



 We are disappointed, however, that you and your colleagues 


 do not support the bill. As you know, the SGR was put into 


 place by the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, which originated in 


 your committee. At that time, the AMA wrote numerous letters 


 to Speaker Gingrich and your committee leadership warning 


 that limiting growth in physician services to GDP would 


 inevitably lead to sharp cuts in physician reimbursement and 


 a crisis in access to care for our nation's seniors. 


 Previously we had supported legislation that would have 


 allowed growth at a rate above GDP.



 As predicted, the SGR did result in a 4.8% cut to 


 physicians for the year 2002. Congress declined to intervene 


 and that cut went into effect. In subsequent years, Congress 


 did step in to prevent additional cuts from occurring. The 


 Consolidated Appropriations Resolution of 2003, the Medicare 


 Modernization Act of 2003, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, 


 the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006, the Medicare, 


 Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007, and the Medicare 


 Improvement for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 each 


 provided temporary relief for seniors and their physicians 


 from pending cuts.



 What these bills did not do, however, was make any progress 


 toward fixing the problem. Instead, Congress fell into a 


 comfortable rhythm of kicking the can down the road and 


 putting off real reform to some unspecified point in the 


 future. In 2005, physicians faced a cut of 3.3% which was 


 averted by the MMA. At that time, the Congressional Budget 


 Office reported that the cost of just a ten-year freeze in 


 physician rates was $48.6 billion. Just four years later, the 


 pending cut stood at 21.5% and the cost of a ten year freeze 


 stood at $285 billion. The AMA believes that this cycle must 


 come to an end. Anything short of permanent reform will not 


 be supported by the AMA. Every year that Congress ''pays-


 for'' a temporary solution, the cost of permanent reform 


 climbs higher still. These are obligations to our seniors 


 which the Medicare program has already made. To pretend that 


 they will not be incurred is unrealistic. To continue to grow 


 the size of the problem is irresponsible.



 As for the implication that the recent action by the 


 Administration to remove drugs from the SGR are ''budget 


 gimmicks to hide the true deficit impact,'' we are reminded 


 of a letter you signed on May 21, 2004, to the Bush 


 administration calling the policy of including drugs in the 


 formula ''our greatest concern'' regarding the magnitude of 


 the




 SGR problem. That letter was also signed by other members of 


 your committee. On June 16, 2004, Representative Cantor sent 


 a similar letter with Representative Pryce urging that CMS 


 ''remove prescription drug expenditures from the Sustainable 


 Growth Rate (SGR) determination.''



 The Congressional Record is replete with statements by 


 members from both sides of the aisle calling for permanent 


 reform. What is missing, however, is the result. The record 


 shows temporary patches and a ballooning problem.



 The AMA does not support any motion to recommit that would 


 have a temporary fix. How steep will cuts be after those four 


 years? How many hundreds of billions of dollars will it then 


 cost to fix this problem? Medical liability reform remains 


 among the highest priorities of the AMA and all physicians. 


 However, when Republicans controlled both chambers of 


 Congress and the White House, capping damages could not be 


 accomplished. We fail to see why you believe it is possible 


 today. With less than seven weeks before Medicare rates are 


 cut more than 21%, we need solutions that can be achieved 


 quickly.



 This should not be a partisan issue. Both sides of the 


 aisle have professed a desire to permanently address this 


 issue. The opportunity to advance permanent reform through 


 passage of H.R. 3961 cannot be missed. We urge all members to 


 vote for H.R. 3961.





 Sincerely,

























J. James Rohack.



 H.R. 3961 is supported by a wide range of organizations 


 representing patients, doctors and other providers, 


 including: AARP; Air Force Association; Air Force Sergeants 


 Association; Air Force Women Officers Associated; Alliance 


 for Retired Americans; AMDA--Dedicated to Long Term Care 


 Medicine; American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology; 


 American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry; American 


 Academy of Cosmetic Surgery; American Academy of Dermatology 


 Association; American Academy of Facial Plastic and 


 Reconstructive Surgery; American Academy of Family 


 Physicians; American Academy of Hospice and Palliative 


 Medicine; American Academy of Neurology Professional 


 Association.



 American Academy of Ophthalmology; American Academy of Pain 


 Medicine; American Academy of Pediatrics; American Academy of 


 Sleep Medicine; American Association of Clinical Urologists; 


 American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons; American 


 Association of Neurological Surgeons; American Association of 


 Neuromuscular and Electrodiagnostic Medicine; American 


 Association of Orthopaedic Surgeons; American College of 


 Allergy, Asthma and Immunology; American College of 


 Cardiology; American College of Chest Physicians; American 


 College of Emergency Physicians; American College of 


 Gastroenterology.



 American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; 


 American College of Osteopathic Internists; American College 


 of Osteopathic Surgeons; American College of Physicians; 


 American College of Radiation Oncology; American College of 


 Radiology; American College of Rheumatology; American College 


 of Surgeons; American Gastroenterological Association; 


 American Geriatrics Society; American Logistics Association; 


 American Medical Association; American Medical Group 


 Association; American Osteopathic Academy of Orthopedics; 


 American Osteopathic Association.



 American Psychiatric Association; American Society for 


 Clinical Pathology; American Society for Gastrointestinal 


 Endoscopy; American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric 


 Surgery; American Society for Radiation Oncology; American 


 Society for Reproductive Medicine; American Society for 


 Surgery of the Hand; American Society of Addiction Medicine; 


 American Society of Anesthesiologists; American Society of 


 Cataract and Refractive Surgery; American Society of Clinical 


 Oncology; American Society of Hematology; American Society 


 of Nephrology; American Society of Ophthalmic Plastic and 


 Reconstructive Surgery; American Society of Plastic 


 Surgeons.



 American Society of Transplant Surgeons; American Thoracic 


 Society; American Urological Association; AMVETS; Arizona 


 Medical Association; Arkansas Medical Society; Army Aviation 


 Association of America; Association of American Medical 


 Colleges; Association of Military Surgeons of the United 


 States; Association of the United States Army; Association of 


 the United States Navy; California Medical Association; Chief 


 Warrant Officer and Warrant Officer Association of the U.S. 


 Coast Guard; College of American Pathologists; Colorado 


 Medical Society.



 Commissioned Officers Association of the U.S. Public Health 


 Service, Inc.; Congress of Neurological Surgeons; Connecticut 


 State Medical Society; Contact Lens Association of 


 Ophthalmologists; Emergency Department Practice Management 


 Association; Enlisted Association of the National Guard of 


 the United States; Fleet Reserve Association; Florida Medical 


 Association Inc.; Gold Star Wives of America; Hawaii Medical 


 Association; Heart Rhythm Society; Idaho Medical Association; 


 Illinois State Medical Society; Indiana State Medical 


 Association; Infectious Diseases Society of America.



 International Society for Clinical Densitometry; 


 International Spine Intervention Society; Iowa Medical 


 Society; Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America; Jewish War 


 Veterans of the United States of America; Joint Council of 


 Allergy, Asthma and Immunology; Kansas Medical Society; 


 Kentucky Medical Association; Louisiana State Medical 


 Society; Maine Medical Association; Marine Corps League; 


 Marine Corps Reserve Association; Massachusetts Medical 


 Society; MedChi, The Maryland State Medical Society; Medical 


 Association of Georgia.



 Medical Association of the State of Alabama; Medical Group 


 Management Association; Medical Society of Delaware; Medical 


 Society of the District of Columbia; Medical Society of the 


 State of New York; Medical Society of Virginia; Michigan 


 State Medical Society; Military Chaplains Association of 


 the United States of America; Military Officers 


 Association of America; Military Order of the Purple 


 Heart; Minnesota Medical Association; Mississippi State 


 Medical Association; Missouri State Medical Association; 


 Montana Medical Association; National Association for 


 Uniformed Services.



 National Committee to Preserve Social Security and 


 Medicare; National Guard Association of the United States; 


 National Medical Association; National Military Family 


 Association; National Order of Battlefield Commissions; Naval 


 Enlisted Reserve Association; Nebraska Medical Association; 


 Nevada State Medical Association; New Hampshire Medical 


 Society; New Mexico Medical Society; Non Commissioned 


 Officers Association; North Carolina Medical Society; North 


 Dakota Medical Association; Ohio State Medical Association; 


 Oklahoma State Medical Association.



 Oregon Medical Association; Pennsylvania Medical Society; 


 Renal Physicians Association; Reserve Enlisted Association; 


 Reserve Officers Association; Rhode Island Medical Society; 


 Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions; 


 Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine; Society for Vascular 


 Surgery; Society of Critical Care Medicine; Society of 


 Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons; Society of 


 Gynecologic Oncologists; Society of Hospital Medicine; 


 Society of Interventional Radiology; Society of Medical 


 Consultants to the Armed Forces.



 South Carolina Medical Association; South Dakota State 


 Medical Association; Tennessee Medical Association; Texas 


 Medical Association; The Endocrine Society; The Retired 


 Enlisted Association; The Society of Thoracic Surgeons; 


 United States Army Warrant Officers Association; USCG Chief 


 Petty Officers Association; Utah Medical Association; Vermont 


 Medical Society; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Washington State 


 Medical Association; West Virginia State Medical Association; 


 Wisconsin Medical Society; Wyoming Medical Society.


Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
