# RESTORING AMERICAN FINANCIAL STABILITY ACT OF 2010
## `06f6fa0ca5d683463e83bf664d70d43f`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 12 May 2010`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, we have only had a few days to consider 
the President's latest nominee to the Supreme Court, but a few things 
are already becoming clear about the administration's approach to this 
vacancy.

As Solicitor General, Ms. Kagan is a member of the President's 
administration. The President, on Monday, also said: We are friends. 
The Vice President's chief of staff, who helped oversee her nomination, 
is evidently hard at work convincing members of the President's party 
that they will have nothing to worry about in terms of Ms. Kagan's 
possible appointment.

But in our constitutional order, Justices are not on anybody's team. 
They have a very different role to play. As a Supreme Court Justice, 
Ms. Kagan's job description would change dramatically. Far from being a 
member of the President's team, she would suddenly be serving as a 
check on it. This is why the Founders were insistent that Justices be 
independent arbiters, not advocates.

As one of the Founders once put it:




 Under a limited Constitution, the complete independence of 


 the courts of justice is peculiarly essential.


And further:




 There is no liberty, if the power of judging be not 


 separated from the legislative and executive powers.


So it is my hope that the Obama administration does not think the 
ideal Supreme Court nominee is someone who would rubberstamp its 
policies. But this nomination does raise the question, and it is a 
question that needs to be answered. Americans want to know that Ms. 
Kagan will be independent; that she will not prejudge cases based on 
her personal opinions; that she will treat everyone equally, as the 
judicial oath requires. That is the defining characteristic of any good 
judge, much less a judge on the Nation's highest Court.

The simple fact is, her lack of a record--especially her lack of a 
judicial record, and the fact that she does not have much of a record 
as a practicing lawyer either--gives us no way of answering that 
question at this particular point with any degree of comfort.

She has never had to develop the judicial habit of saying no to an 
administration, and we cannot simply assume she would. Later this 
morning, I will have an opportunity to meet with Ms. Kagan and to 
mention some of the concerns I have raised to her personally. We will 
welcome her to the Capitol and congratulate her once again on her 
nomination. This is not an easy process for any nominee, but it is an 
important one.
















Miranda Warnings


Mr. President, President Hamid Karzai will visit the Capitol today to 
discuss the current situation in Afghanistan. His visit reminds us that 
the surge of forces into Afghanistan is not yet complete and that the 
counterinsurgency strategy developed by General McChrystal is still in 
its early stages.

President Karzai's visit also reminds us of the importance of 
completing our work on the war supplemental. We must complete this bill 
to fund our forces in the field, to help General McChrystal in his 
efforts to ensure that the Taliban does not return to power, and to 
ensure that Afghanistan does not again become a sanctuary for 
terrorists.

Let's remember that the 9/11 attacks were planned in Afghanistan, and 
that it was because of this attack and al-Qaida's many other attempts 
to kill innocent Americans that President Obama implemented a strategy 
for reversing the momentum of the Taliban in Afghanistan last December.

This is why it is so worrisome and, frankly, baffling to hear the 
Attorney General say the administration's views on issuing Miranda 
warnings to terrorists are now under reconsideration because of a ''new 
threat,'' and because we are ''now dealing with international 
terrorism.''

Perhaps it is the reported involvement of TTP in the Times Square 
attack that the Attorney General believes is ''new.'' But most people 
have been aware of the terrorist threat of international terrorists to 
the homeland since September 11, 2001.

The fact is, the clear purpose of many of the antiterror policies 
this administration in its first days tried to undo through Executive 
order was to deal with this threat that the Attorney General is now 
calling ''new.'' These threats did not begin with the Times Square 
bomber any more than they ended on 9/11. They have been with us for a 
long time now, and they are as urgent today as they were 9 years ago.











 Congressional Budget Office Report


Now, Mr. President, I would also like to note some news that might 
have slipped past some people yesterday in the midst of everything else 
that is going on. I am referring to the Congressional Budget Office 
report that the health care bill is now expected to cost $115 billion 
more than the administration said it would, wiping out every penny of 
savings they claimed the bill would produce.

This is truly astounding. Here was one of the Democrats' primary 
arguments in favor of their health care bill: that it would lower the 
deficit. Yet now we are learning that it will not. But you will not 
hear a word about it from the people who made that argument day in and 
day out for more than a year.

The fact is, the list of failed promises is growing every day. They 
called us alarmists for saying businesses would dump employees from 
their insurance plan. Yet now it is being reported that some of the 
Nation's biggest employers are seriously considering cutting employee 
health care and paying the lower cost penalties instead, just as we 
predicted. There goes the President's vow that ''if you like the plan 
you have, you can keep it.''


Another thing we heard was that the health care bill would slow the 
growth of health care costs for families, businesses, and government. 
Yet an analysis last month by the Obama administration's own Actuary 
found that this bill will actually increase costs and that the national 
spending on health care alone could go up by $1/3 trillion--$1/3 
trillion.

The President and the Democrats in Congress said time and again that 
their health care bill would strengthen Medicare. Yet the 
administration's own experts now say it would drive nearly one in six 
hospitals into debt and threaten access to care for seniors on 
Medicare.

They said the bill wouldn't raise taxes on the middle class. Yet now 
Congress's own bipartisan scorekeeper on the legislation says middle-
class taxpayers will pay billions more in taxes as a result of this 
bill. Millions more will get hit with a fine for choosing not to buy 
government-approved insurance.

They said health insurance premiums would fall, but we have learned 
from the administration just this week that even some of the smaller 
reforms in this bill will actually drive up premiums.

So when Speaker Pelosi said we would have to pass this health care 
bill to find out what is in it, she knew what she was talking about, 
and what they are finding out is that Republicans were right all along. 
For every promise that crumbles, another one of our warnings is 
vindicated. Day after day, Republicans said the health care bill would 
raise taxes, raise premiums, and cut Medicare for seniors. We said it 
would increase costs because it didn't take an actuary to figure out 
that you don't save money on health care by spending more on it. Yet, 
even in the face of the clearest proof that we were right on every 
single count, the people who forced this bill through Congress against 
the will of the people continue to call us alarmists and to question 
our motives. But all of these headlines are already confirming what the 
American people already believe and what Republicans said all along: 
More government isn't the solution to out-of-control health care 
spending any more than spending money we don't have on


projects we don't need is the secret to robust job growth.

The American people are tired of the reckless spending and the failed 
promises, and they are tired of elected representatives who won't own 
up to their mistakes.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.