---
---

# VETERANS DISABILITY BENEFITS CLAIMS MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `071298ede02f1fa74291391e6e944b35`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Thank you, Chairman Filner.

While we celebrated Independence Day this month, many Americans were 
unaware that immediately after the Continental Congress signed the 
Declaration of Independence, it ratified the Military Pension Law of 
1776 thereby creating the first Federal disability compensation 
program.

There should be no doubt that the United States has a proud tradition 
of providing benefits and services to our current population of 24 
million veterans, more than 2.7 million of whom receive compensation 
from the Department of Veterans Affairs, a department full of 
committed, well-intended, and skilled people who nonetheless are 
struggling with our current situation. The VA is in dire need of 
change, and it is time to modernize the disability claims system.

I would like to thank Representatives Joe Donnelly of Indiana, Phil 
Hare of Illinois, Zack Space of Ohio, and Jerry McNerney of California 
and subcommittee Ranking Member Doug Lamborn of Colorado for 
contributing to this bill. They, too, have recognized the problems in a 
system that had a backlog of more than 838,000 claims in 2007, and that 
unbelievable backlog is projected to surpass 1 million claims in 2009.

This escalating backlog means that far too many veterans and 
survivors wait for months, years, or decades for their claims to be 
adjudicated. This is a national disgrace and violates our contract with 
every person who serves in our Armed Forces.

In my own district, I see time and again the tragic human toll of 
these egregious delays. A World War II Navy veteran from Westchester 
County, Ken MacDonald, tried since 1947 to receive compensation for 
injuries he suffered not once, but twice on ships that were sunk out 
from under him. Only last year, 60 years later, with the help of our 
office, was his claim approved. He received over $100,000 in back pay 
and a pension for the rest of his life--but think of the decades he 
suffered, the opportunities he lost.

We have thousands of veterans coming home injured from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. We have Vietnam veterans whose claims have never been 
fully resolved. It is a disgrace for our Nation to allow them to suffer 
and face financial hardship and health care problems when the VA should 
process and accept their legitimate claims promptly.

Families suffer also. In June, a news story broke of Wayne Kirtley, a 
54-year-old veteran who was misdiagnosed twice by the VA, resulting in 
his premature death. When he filed a claim against the VA, it was 
denied. Eight months later, the veteran died while his appeal was 
pending. Under current law, the claim dies with the veteran. Kirtley 
was worried about his wife, Helen, and wanted to ensure that she would 
be taken care of with VA benefits. But that has not yet happened. H.R. 
5892 would allow Helen to continue her husband's claim with the VA and 
submit additional evidence which she currently cannot do.

Recent commissions and task forces, the Veterans' Disability Benefits 
Commission, the Commission on the Care for America's Returning Wounded 
Warriors, and the Government Accountability Office have documented 
problems at the VBA. Over the last 18 months, my subcommittee has held 
extensive hearings in Washington and in Goshen, New York, to hear the 
testimony of veterans themselves and of the Veterans Service 
Organizations.



I have incorporated many of their suggestions into H.R. 5892. The 
bill proposes to overhaul the VA disability benefit system so that 
veterans and survivors can receive the benefits they have earned easily 
and quickly. Here is what the bill will change:

In today's VA, a veteran's claim is often held up until every medical 
condition is evaluated, the average wait being over 6 months. Under 
this bill, a severe, undisputed injury, such as a lost leg or arm, will 
be compensated


immediately. Lesser injuries that take more time to evaluate will be 
handled separately. Today's VA claims processing system is labor-
intensive and paper-based with the loss of paper files being a major 
cause of delays. This bill brings the VA into the 21st century by 
requiring the use of modern information technology.

The VA also relies on outdated medical concepts and on an archaic 
rating schedule. This bill updates the definitions of diseases and 
disorders to bring them in line with current medical knowledge, and it 
takes a comprehensive approach to disability ratings, including factors 
such as the loss of quality of life and of future earnings capacity.

It is hard to believe, but today, when a veteran dies while his or 
her claim is being considered, the surviving wife or child has to start 
all over again at square one even if that claim has been stuck in the 
backlog for years. This bill allows the spouse or child to step into 
the shoes of the veteran while the claim continues, saving them months 
or years of frustration and of waiting.

This bill recognizes the rights and needs of family members by 
establishing a new unit called the Survivors Office. The VA has always 
proclaimed as part of its mission caring for the widows and for the 
orphans of veterans, but it has never had an office specifically 
focused on them.

Finally, another title of the bill deals with the United States Court 
of Appeals for veterans' claims. My hope is that we can eliminate the 
hamster wheel effect that bounces veterans back and forth between 
different levels of the appeals process, reducing today's unacceptable 
backlog of cases.

A nimble, quick, responsive VA claims system could go a long way to 
helping our Nation live up to its commitment to care for wounded 
veterans and their families. It could help prevent suicides, 
bankruptcies, poverty, family disruptions, and homelessness among our 
Nation's disabled veterans.

We can and must change the way Washington handles the claims of our 
injured veterans. We must give them easier access to the benefits they 
have earned and end forever the adversarial, inefficient and 
frustrating claims process they are now forced to endure. I believe 
H.R. 5892 puts the VA on a new course for the 21st century, giving them 
the resources and new approaches to make better, faster decisions, to 
achieve more accurate ratings and to treat all veterans and their 
families fairly and with respect. I urge all of your support.