# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `071260934be36fe341bf170d8afdfc2d`
`Mr. ISAKSON â€” 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Thank you very much, Mr. President.

Mr. President, I rise today based on an occurrence that took place 
last evening that caused me to think a little bit about this body and 
our priorities right now at this time.

Two gentlemen from my home community of Cobb County, GA, invited me 
to go to dinner with them and about 25 other members of the Cobb 
Chamber of Commerce--Mr. Don Beavers, a distinguished retired marine 
who now works at the Chamber; and the chairman-elect, Sam Kelly. The 
invitation was to talk about their issues. But they did an amazing 
thing last night: They called Walter Reed, they called the Army, and 
they said they would like to entertain a couple of our wounded warriors 
who are being treated as outpatients at Walter Reed hospital.


So last night, I sat at a table at Old Ebbets Grill with citizens 
from my community and two distinguished wounded warriors from the 82nd 
Airborne Division of the U.S. Army. One had served in Iraq as a sniper 
and was injured when an IED exploded on his humvee as he was coming 
back from deployment near Baghdad. Since that hit, he has had 12 
surgeries, with substantial reconstruction on the entire left side of 
his body, from his head to his toe. The other, a special operations 
soldier of the 82nd Airborne Division, lost his leg. Both--some time 
now, a year after their initial treatment--still take pain killers, 
still are in therapy, and still show the scars from their tragic 
injuries suffered at the hands of an IED in the case of one, and in the 
case of the other, an RPG, a rocket-propelled grenade.

As we sat at the table, I thanked them so much, as all of us do, for 
their service to our country and listened to their concerns and 
listened to their thoughts and listened to their prayers for the 
soldiers they left when they were injured in Iraq.

It occurred to me as we were talking that we are now in the third 
week in the Senate--over the third week--of debating the 
reauthorization of the Defense bill. Think about that. You sit at 
dinner one night with two soldiers who sacrificed limbs and pain and 
suffering for you and for me, and we continue to dawdle and get off 
track on authorizing or reauthorizing probably the single most 
important thing we ought to be doing. I am concerned that the 
leadership has decided to take ancillary issues unrelated to defense, 
unrelated to our men in the field, unrelated to what is going on in the 
world today, and protracting the debate on what is absolutely essential 
and needed.

As I sat there and listened to these two wounded warriors, both of 
whom suffered from explosive devices that hit their humvee or their 
armored personnel carrier, I realized we were still dawdling on the 
debate on the authorization of the MRAP; I realized we are dawdling on 
the debate in terms of the pay raise for our soldiers; I realized, as 
meritorious as some of the amendments we are discussing may well be, 
they all pale in comparison to the 170,000 men and women deployed right 
now in Iraq fighting on our behalf.

Now, there are differences of opinion on the war in the Senate, and I 
respect that. This is the body and this is the place where those 
differences should be debated and be debated thoroughly. But I want to 
jog everybody's memory for a second. It was May when we did the 
emergency supplemental that we spent not 1 week but 2 weeks on, not 
debating the supplemental but debating whether we should withdraw or 
set dates certain or leave Iraq. We had numerous votes--none of them 
successful--on setting a date certain. Finally, as Memorial Day 
approached, we decided to pass on the money so needed to support our 
troops. Then, 60 days later, in the middle of July, pressing before the 
August break, another bill came up, and once again we redebated all the 
same issues with regard to dates certain, with regard to withdrawal, 
even one with regard to defunding the military operations in the war on 
terror and the battle in Iraq.

Now here we are, 2 months later, in the third week of a Defense 
authorization bill, and we have already had these same debates once 
again, and the votes have not changed except they have lost by a little 
bit more than they lost in July. Yet, all over the country, and last 
night at Old Ebbets Grill, Americans are sitting down with their sons 
and daughters, who fought in harm's way and have come back, many of 
them wounded and harmed, and how do you explain to them it takes 3 
weeks to debate the reauthorization of their pay or 3 weeks to debate 
the reauthorization of MRAP that just might have prevented the very 
injuries those two soldiers I sat with last night incurred?

So I think it is important that we set priorities. It is very 
important, I am sure, to the Senator from Massachusetts to discuss hate 
crimes legislation. I understand that. But in setting priorities, is it 
right to take something such as hate crimes--which already exists in 45 
States, already exists in the Federal law in terms of race and 
religion--and get all off track on MRAP and reauthorizing the pay of 
our troops and an increase? Is that right? Is that setting the right 
priority? Is it important for us to do that?

Is it important for us to do some of the things that have happened 
over the last 3 weeks? In fact, to give a little report card, because I 
have been intimately involved in amendments on this bill, this Senate, 
in 3 weeks of debate, has passed en bloc 34 amendments to this bill--
all technical, none requiring debate, one of them mine. It would seem 
that instead of having all the debate about ancillary subjects or about 
recirculating amendments that twice before on the floor of the Senate, 
within 6 months, have failed, it is about time we got our priorities 
straight. It is about time we authorize the Department of Defense. It 
is about time we get to the pay raise for our soldiers. It is about 
time we get to the MRAP that Republicans and Democrats--the Senator 
from Delaware, Mr. Biden, and all of us--have worked so hard on.

It is about time we set our priorities and get them straight. 
Whatever the merit of other issues may be, if they are unrelated to the 
Department of Defense reauthorization, they can wait until another day 
because every day our sons and our daughters are deployed for you and 
for me in harm's way. We can differ on the war, and I respect that, but 
there should not be a difference on the funding of our men and women 
deployed in the Middle East.

I, for one, call on the leadership for us to get back to the business 
we are called on to do. Let's complete the DOD authorization without 
any other dilatory tactics or any other ancillary amendments, other 
than those that relate to the Department of Defense.



Mr. President, I yield back the remainder of my time.