# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `0728e781163da8a70f1061279bb011ec`
`Mr. HUNTER — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank the ranking member for yielding.

America right now is locked in combat against a dangerous enemy in 
Afghanistan, facing the constant threat of ambush and roadside bombs. 
The last thing our soldiers and marines need is any unnecessary or 
harmful distractions.



As a marine who has served downrange in both Iraq and Afghanistan, I 
have personally witnessed that the current policy of Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell works and the repeal of current law does not work. I have lived 
with, eaten with, dived for cover with, and fought with my fellow 
marines overseas three times. Some military lawyers may think that this 
amendment looks good on paper, but in effect it will destroy the combat 
readiness of our fighting force. Our focus right now should be on 
achieving victory and returning our military home safely.

While America possesses the best military equipment in the entire 
world and the most technologically advanced weaponry on Earth, the true 
strength of our might is derived from the core set of values and 
principles that is shared by our frontline combat troops. It is these 
shared beliefs that lead to the comradery and the instinct of our 
troops to risk their lives to protect one another every single day.

The commandant of the Marine Corps stands opposed to repealing 
current law, and each of the other service chiefs have expressed 
concerns with taking any action on Don't Ask, Don't Tell until the 
year-long study under way at the Pentagon is completed. With all due 
respect, Secretary of Defense Gates and the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mullen, have and are performing a great 
service to our Nation, but they work for this administration and as 
such are required to follow President Obama's lead and not necessarily 
speak for the men and women who have volunteered to fight for our 
Nation and put themselves in harm's way.

Evidently, the White House and congressional Democrats think they are 
doing our military a favor by rewarding them for victory in Iraq and 
continued hard fighting in Afghanistan by forcing a liberal social 
agenda on them and furthermore ignoring our military's input on this 
matter by not having this vote after the Pentagon study is completed so 
that at least this would be an informed vote. Our time would be better 
spent on evaluating the real threats facing our military in 
Afghanistan, starting with the roadside bomb threat and ensuring our 
troops have the resources that they need.

The debate on Don't Ask, Don't Tell is just another distraction on 
these and other priorities, and I urge my colleagues here in the House 
to vote ''no'' on this amendment. We need to listen to our military 
leaders, listen to the commandant of the Marine Corps and the actual 
generals and admirals in charge of our military fighting for us, not 
people who work for this administration and are going to tow the line 
for this administration. We've got to do what's right. Support the 
military. We need victory, not social change, in the military.

