---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `072cd078a767ff67816688e6e270bec4`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, lately we have heard a lot about the 
alternative minimum tax. It is a problem around here we have talked 
about and not done much about over a long period of time, whether 
Republicans have controlled this body or Democrats have controlled this 
body. Most often, we talk about the difficulties of really fixing the 
alternative minimum tax. Obviously, then, it is not a new problem. It 
has been with us for several decades.

The individual minimum tax, the precursor to the alternative minimum 
tax, as we call it now, dates from 1969. Congress then discovered, 
somehow, 155 taxpayers with incomes greater than $200,000 a year were 
not paying any taxes because they could legally avoid those taxes. So 
it was calculated that everybody ought to be paying a little minimum 
tax, and that is where the alternative minimum tax comes from. At that 
particular time, it was affecting about one taxpayer in half a million. 
Now, clearly, the situation has changed in the last 38 years.

Although not its only flaw, the alternative minimum tax's most 
significant defect is it is not indexed for inflation. This failure to 
index the exemption and rate brackets--the parameters of the 
alternative minimum tax system--is also a bipartisan problem. Though 
$200,000 was not an incredible amount of money in 1969, the situation 
is different today. I am not saying $200,000 is not a lot of money 
today, because it is, but $200,000 today will not buy what it would buy 
in 1969.

In 2004--the most recent year for which the Internal Revenue Service 
has complete tax data--instead of having 155 people paying this tax, 
more than 3 million families and individuals were hit by the 
alternative minimum tax. This chart I have in the Chamber has the 
numbers for every State in the Union. I am not going to go down those 
numbers now because we do not have time. But you can see, State by 
State by State, there are tens of thousands of people paying the 
alternative minimum tax who were never intended to pay it, even though 
we have taken some action in recent years so yet more people are not 
paying the alternative minimum tax.

This does not even begin to hint at what will happen if we do not 
continue to protect taxpayers from the alternative minimum tax. Barring 
an extension of the hold harmless contained in the 2006 tax bill, the 
alternative minimum tax exemptions will return to their pre-2001 
levels. At the end of 2006, provisions allowing nonrefundable personal 
tax credits to offset AMT tax liability expired. If further action is 
not taken, it is estimated the alternative minimum tax will claim 35 
million families and individuals by the end of this decade.

Now, think of that: A tax originally conceived to counter the actions 
of just 155 taxpayers could hit 35 million filers in just a few years, 
and I am talking about just around the corner. Some analyses show that 
in the next decade, it may be less costly to repeal the regular income 
tax than it would be to repeal the alternative minimum tax.

The AMT is a problem that has been developing for almost 40 years. On 
numerous occasions, Congress has made adjustments to the exemptions and 
the rates, though not as part of a sustained effort to keep the AMT 
from further absorbing our Nation's middle class until 2001. We did 
repeal it in 1998, but President Clinton vetoed it. We never, then, 
were able to get it repealed. So I am arguing for repeal.

Despite the temporary measures we have taken, the alternative minimum 
tax is still a very real threat to millions of taxpayers who were never 
supposed to be subject to the minimum tax. That the AMT has grown 
grossly beyond its original purpose, which was to ensure the wealthy 
were not exempt from an income tax, is indisputable, and that the AMT 
is inherently flawed would seem to be common sense.

Despite widespread agreement that something needs to be done about 
the AMT, agreement on what exactly to do is not very widespread. A 
major factor in the disagreement relates to the massive amount of money 
the AMT is supposed to be bringing into the Federal Government over the 
next few years--but remember, supposed to be bringing in from taxpayers 
who were never supposed to pay it in the first place. In 2004, AMT 
filers paid more than $12.8 billion into the Treasury.

If we do not extend the most recent AMT hold-harmless provisions that 
expired at the end of 2006, that number is projected to balloon to a 
much greater amount, and long-term budget forecasts currently show this 
greater amount coming into the Treasury.

When forecasters put their projections together, they are working 
under the assumption that the hold harmless which was extended in last 
year's tax bill will not be extended, that we will not take care of 
this problem. So they are guessing there is a whole bunch of revenue 
coming in from people who were never intended to pay it in the first 
place. Because of this, budget planners make the assumption that 
revenues will be much higher than everyone who is frustrated with the 
AMT thinks they ought to be. The reason for this is that the AMT 
''balloons'' the revenue base, as it is projected to increase revenues 
as a percentage of gross national product. There is a great deal of 
evidence to support this.


Now, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has consistently 
forecast the ballooning of AMT revenues year after year. This chart I 
have in the Chamber shows that with the red line. It takes into 
consideration that we are going to bring revenue in from people who 
were never supposed to pay it in the first place.

I just want to note that although the Tax Increase Prevention and 
Reconciliation Act of 2005 was signed into law after this analysis was 
published, the 2006 tax bill extended the AMT hold harmless only 
through December 31 of last year, and this chart shows Federal revenues 
all the way to the year 2050. It is important to note the long-term 
effects of the AMT on the revenue base because that is what is at 
issue: the basic idea that we are going to receive a lot of revenue 
from middle-income taxpayers who were never intended to pay it--which 
is part of that red line we have to get rid of because why tax people 
if they were not supposed to be taxed? The law is corrected from time 
to time to keep it from happening.

There may be some doubters who hesitate to attribute this ballooning 
of revenues to the AMT. But this next chart illustrates the drastic 
expansion of the AMT under current law over the next 43 years.

The Congressional Budget Office's report also states:




 [B]y 2050, roughly 15 percent of individual income tax 


 liability would be generated by the AMT, compared with about 


 2 percent today.


This is what will happen if we do not do anything.

The problem with all of the projections showing the AMT ballooning 
revenues is that these projections are used


to put together the budget we have before us. Now, this is not a 
Senator Conrad problem. This is not a Democratic problem. This is a 
bipartisan problem. Republican and Democratic budgeteers rely on the 
same source of revenue--or I should say a source of revenue the 
Congressional Budget Office says is going to come in from people who 
were never intended to pay it.

This means the central problem in dealing with the alternative 
minimum tax is money. There are some people who say we can only solve 
the AMT if we offset the revenue and it can be found elsewhere to 
replace the money the AMT is currently forecast to collect. But we 
never intended to collect it from the people who we suppose are going 
to pay it. Anyone who says this sees the forecasts showing revenues 
being pushed up as a percentage of gross domestic product and wants big 
government to keep them up there.

These arguments are especially ridiculous when one considers that the 
alternative minimum tax was never meant to collect so much revenue. It 
is a failed policy in many ways.

The alternative minimum tax has even failed in its objective to 
ensure no citizen, no matter how wealthy, was able to completely avoid 
the Federal income tax, because in 2004, the Commissioner of IRS, Mr. 
Everson, informed the Finance Committee that the same number of 
taxpayers, as a percentage of the tax-filing population at large, 
continues to pay no Federal income tax. It boils down to the fact that 
the class of 155 people the law was set up for in the first place, in 
1969, is even finding ways out of getting hit by the alternative 
minimum tax, and doing it legally because we have 2,366 taxpayers with 
incomes of $200,000 or more who do not use the medical and dental 
deduction had no income tax and no alternative minimum tax. The AMT has 
failed in every way except the ability to make Government bigger, or at 
least make it look bigger, and for those who think you ought to have an 
offset, to keep it big. The AMT has failed. While it may be hard for 
some to turn down taxpayers' money, whether we are supposed to collect 
it or not, no one has trouble spending the money--even the blue smoke 
money that is in that red line there.


It is simply unfair to expect taxpayers to pay a tax they were never 
intended to pay, and it is even more unfair to expect them to continue 
to pay for that tax once we get rid of it. The reform or repeal of the 
AMT should not be offset because it is money we were never supposed to 
collect in the first place.

The way to solve this problem is to look on the other side of the 
ledger, to the spending side. Budget planners need to take off their 
rose-colored glasses, because that never materializes, and if it does, 
you are going to ruin the middle class. So take off your rose-colored 
glasses when looking at long-term revenue projections and read the fine 
print.

In general, it is a good idea to spend money within your means, and 
this is true in this case for the Government as well. If we start 
trying to spend revenues we expect to collect in the future because of 
the alternative minimum tax, we are living beyond our means. We need to 
stop assuming record levels of revenue are available to be spent and 
recognize the alternative minimum tax is a phony revenue source.

As we consider how to deal with the alternative minimum tax, we must 
first remember we do not have the option of not dealing with it. The 
problems will only get worse every year and make any solution even more 
difficult. We must also be clear the revenue the AMT would not collect 
as a result of repeal or reform should not be offset as a condition of 
a repeal or reform. We shouldn't call it lost revenue because it is 
revenue we never had to begin with.

A few weeks ago I presented to this body a joint tax estimate of how 
various proposed fixes to the AMT will impact revenues expected to be 
collected under current law. I noted at that time that full repeal 
aside, each of these proposals will still allow the alternative minimum 
tax to bring in hundreds of billions of dollars into the Treasury. If 
you consider any proposal aside from full repeal, you are saying 
hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of taxpayers out there deserve 
to bear the burden of the AMT. In other words, the middle class that is 
so talked about on this floor of this Senate to protect, the only way 
they are going to be protected is the extent to which we do away with 
this tax.

Suppose we are able to continue enacting 1- or 2-year temporary 
patches, as we have done. First, this strategy assumes Congress will 
have the time and the inclination to spend time dealing with the 
alternative minimum tax every year or two. This means whatever the 
issue of the day might be--Iraq, unemployment, natural disasters--
Congress will have to stop dealing with those other problems and return 
to a problem we should never have had to deal with in the first place. 
Is the alternative minimum tax an issue that we as a legislative body 
want to revisit every year? Wouldn't it be better to solve it once and 
for all, particularly since it is phantom revenue, taxing middle-class 
Americans who were never supposed to pay it in the first place? 
Remember, only 155 taxpayers were targeted with this tax in 1969.

Second, every time Congress attempts to enact or extend a temporary 
fix, the same revenue issues are going to come up. Budget projections 
create the illusion of forgone revenues given up because of an 
alternative minimum tax hold harmless. Every time a patch is 
considered, there is another chance for taxpayers to be subject to this 
stealth tax increase.

Clearly, there is only one way to fix the AMT so no taxpayer is 
subjected to what has become a complete policy failure. We must 
completely repeal the individual AMT. There is a bipartisan consensus 
that only complete repeal is an adequate solution to this problem. 
Chairman Baucus, along with this Senator, Senator Crapo, Senator Kyl, 
Senator Roberts, Senator Schumer of New York, and Senator Smith last 
month introduced the Individual Alternative Minimum Tax Repeal Act.

We must repeal the AMT and we must do it without offsetting any 
revenue the AMT is expected to collect in the future. I have made this 
point before, but it is important. The alternative minimum tax was 
never intended to be a significant source of revenue. It was only meant 
to hit a few people who could legally avoid paying the tax with the 
idea that everybody living in America ought to pay a little bit of 
income tax for the privilege of benefiting from this great economy we 
have. Despite this, the alternative minimum tax will balloon revenues 
to historically high levels if something isn't done, as my colleagues 
can see right there on the chart.

If we consider the AMT to be a fundamentally unfair tax, any tax that 
would replace it would be equally unfair. Anyone who wants equity to be 
a fundamental value represented in our Tax Code and who wants fair 
treatment for this country's middle-class taxpayers must support my 
amendment for complete repeal of the individual income tax.

I filed an amendment that repeals the AMT. I am going to push this 
body to speak on this proposal for these reasons: We need to get 
Members who say they support AMT repeal to show their support for the 
record; second, to eliminate the mythical budgeting that results from 
assuming current levels of AMT revenues; third, to show the American 
people we will walk the walk on the AMT repeal and not just talk the 
talk.

I know some who oppose my amendment will argue two points: that there 
is $180 billion in the budget for tax relief; and secondly, we can't 
afford the repeal of AMT.

As to the first point, the purpose of the Baucus amendment, which I 
supported yesterday, was to deal with less than half of the tax relief 
that expires in the year 2010. In a sense, Members have indicated where 
they want that money to go, and that revenue loss is built into the 
post-2010 period.

As to the second point, we can afford to repeal the AMT because 
revenues remain at or above record levels in the outyears with the AMT 
gone. Honest budgeting would recognize it as fictional in any event.

I yield the floor.