# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `072d687ab8fa7e47e30bb2e9c897e3bc`
`Mr. PRICE of North Carolina — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam Chairman, I thank Ms. Schakowsky 
for yielding and for her good work on this amendment, the Schakowsky-
Price amendment.

I also want to thank Chairman Skelton for his significant steps he 
takes in this bill to address the vast challenges surrounding 
battlefield contracting. He generously worked with me to include key 
elements of H.R. 369, my bill regarding security contractors, and I 
appreciate his leadership.

Very quickly, I want to highlight three additional improvements this 
amendment will make to language in the bill. First, it will require the 
departments doing the vast majority of contracting, DOD, State, USAID, 
to track contractor casualties. We believe over 800 contractors have 
been killed in Iraq and many more injured. But what's the exact toll? 
We do not know. Our amendment will change that.

Secondly, the amendment will require these departments when 
appropriate to issue guidance on appropriate equipment and uniforms for 
contractors.

And thirdly, it will require the departments to clarify how a 
provision inserted in last year's defense bill, which places certain 
contractors under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, will be 
implemented.

These are three simple but important additions that make the bill's 
current language even stronger, ensuring that the agencies engaged in 
contracting on the battlefield will develop an effective framework for 
managing and overseeing contractors.

Four years into the war in Iraq, and after all the stories of waste 
and abuse and criminal misconduct, I think we can agree that this is 
not too much to ask. I urge my colleagues to support the amendment.