# MANNER OF CONDUCTING PROCEEDINGS IN THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `0733e06f573627f0def22742391525d6`
`Mr. KING of Iowa â€” 9 March 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I also recognize you are a fair-minded 
Mississippian, and I appreciate that and the tone and the history that 
you have added. And perhaps on your walk across here, you might not 
have heard my remarks with regard to the Vietnam era and the 
constraints that were put on the appropriations bill then. And so I 
don't think that we are in disagreement on the precedence or the 
history. We may or may not be in disagreement on the constitutional 
aspects.

And what I have done is taken a position that Congress does not have 
the authority to micromanage. And I was not here to put up a vote on 
that, but you can expect, Madam Speaker, how I would have voted had 
that been the case.

But these micromanaging efforts, and this is a newspaper publishing 
information, would appear to require that the Iraqi government meet key 
security, political, and economic benchmarks that were established by 
the President in the State of the Union Address on January 10. Now, 
those were goals at that time. I don't speak for the commander in chief 
on that, but I know now that we are well passed January 10. On January 
10, there wasn't a plan that had been unfolded like the plan we are 
working on today. And you have to be flexible in a time of war. And to 
go back and pull things out of his speech and say, and we are going to 
tie you to that on appropriations, I think that does two things: I 
don't think that is prudent, and I don't think it is constitutional.

Another one would be the Iraqi failure to meet these benchmarks would 
mean the beginning of U.S. withdrawal from Iraq and will restrict 
economic aid to the Iraqis. Another case, Madam Speaker, of setting up 
a standard here in Congress, and the slow wheels of this Congress can 
creep along. And then we put something in place that would prohibit us, 
prohibit the commander in chief from being flexible in time of war.

It goes on. Another standard would be, if progress toward meeting any 
key benchmark is not met by July 1, 2007; we will hardly get any 
legislation passed before then; a redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq 
begins immediately and must be completed within 180 days.

Madam Speaker, progress towards meeting benchmarks, that is a gray 
line, not a bright line but a grey one. Well, we are making progress 
every single day, but I don't think the people that are drafting this 
legislation would agree that we are making progress every single day. 
So, therefore, by their judgment of this standard, that would mean that 
we begin pulling out July 1, 2007, just a few months from now, and may 
be even retroactive, because I don't think this bill can get out of 
this Congress by then.

Another one says, if key benchmarks are not met October 1, 2007, a 
redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq begins immediately and must be 
completed within 180 days.

It goes on and on. And, again, this is a huge, huge reach for 
Congress to get involved in the micromanagement of a war. There have 
always been consequences.

And, by the way, the gentleman from Mississippi that raised the issue 
of the appropriations bill in the early 1990s Congress that said, get 
out of Somalia, if you look at the aftermath of that, I think it would 
have been far better for the United States had we stayed and had we 
completed the mission there; it would be perhaps done by now and not a 
place where there are terrorists pulling into that. There has been a 
long, drawn out war in that area since that period of time that has 
washed back and forth across that countryside. And part of it is 
because we lacked resolve. And part of that is shown right here in the 
words of Muqtada al-Sadr.

So, Madam Speaker, I would bring up one more point, and that would 
be, we have made progress there. And the progress that we have made, 
some of it is measured by construction projects that are completed. 
There has been a lot that has been said about things not getting done 
in Iraq, and I would submit that I have been over there a number of 
times but twice specifically to review the construction projects that 
have been initiated and in progress and completed. And this shows in 
green the projects that are completed. Along that map, it is easy to 
see that we have got most of our work done. We are nearing the end 
really of all of them. The green are completed. The yellow is under 
construction, and the red are those that are planned but not started. 
Tiny little numbers under the red here. Big numbers under the green. 
Significantly smaller numbers than those that are under construction.

We have gotten a lot of projects completed, Madam Speaker, and we are 
almost to that point where we can wrap up this work that started here 
in Iraq, that started out with $18.4 billion. We put supplemental 
funding in there. And then a final number, I can't speak to factually 
here on the floor, although it is significantly larger than $18.4 
billion. There has been a lot of infrastructure that has been picked up 
to speed. If you look around here on the edge, these are all border 
forts along the edge on the border between Iran and Iraq. That is also 
the case down along here with Jordan and Syria. We have fortified the 
border and put people there on the outposts. That has done a lot to 
slow things down, but it has not done enough to keep it from coming out 
of Iran.

I have been to a good number of these projects. Some would be sewer 
projects in Sadr City, Baghdad, itself that began about 3 years ago. 
And under the


first armored division controlling that, General Carelli, who is now 
the Corps commander there. I have been up here to the Kirkuk area where 
the mother of all generators sits there producing electricity 24 hours 
a day, every day, a gas-fired generator plant. There is work done all 
over this area. We have gone back and reflooded the swamps where the 
swamp Arabs lived that were dried up and drained by Saddam Hussein. 
They have moved back into that area. About 8,000 square miles were 
drained; we got about 4,000 square miles put back in. We have done a 
tremendous amount to improve the environment there in Iraq, and 80 
percent of the violence is confined to Baghdad and 30 miles within 
Baghdad. So why would we be concerned that we can't control this or we 
can't manage this?

I would point out that, in 1944, on December 22 of 1944, the 101st 
airborne was surrounded at Bastogne, and the Nazis demanded that the 
101st surrender. And General McCollum's response was a retort, it was 
''Nuts.'' The Germans didn't know how to understand that, Madam 
Speaker. But what it meant was: We are staying here. We have got you 
right where we want you. You are all around us. We can hit you. We can 
fire and hit you in any direction.

And the Americans underwent a relentless artillery barrage, but the 
response, the rhetoric, ''Nuts'' prevailed. And General Patton's Army 
was able to relieve the 101st Airborne. The 101st today contends they 
didn't need the help; they would have liked to just whip the Germans 
themselves.

That was the spirit we had in this country and our fighting personnel 
in December of 1944. When they were surrounded, and it was hopeless, 
they said, ''Nuts.'' Now we have Baghdad surrounded and we have Baghdad 
penetrated, and all we have to do is maintain stability there, and we 
have people talking about surrender. And I think they are nuts, Madam 
Speaker, to talk about surrender with all of this investment in blood 
and treasure, to be so close to success and victory here, and to be 
waffling and go wobbly at a time when you need a spine and you need 
courage.


To bring this supplemental appropriations bill with all of these 
strings attached that are designed to appease the 75 or 76 members of 
the Out of Iraq Caucus and the left-winged liberals here in this 
Congress, not because of their leadership on war but because of their 
position on other issues, I think, is a disservice to the American 
people. The American people know how important this is. And the fathers 
and mothers, the widows and widowers, and sons and daughters of those 
who have given their lives for Iraqi freedom and a safer future for 
Americans must be respected and honored.

As the father of a son who was killed over there, a Gold Star father 
from California said to me, and his name was John, he said, ''It is 
different now. You can't pull out of there now, because that soil is 
sanctified by the blood of our children. You must stick with this 
battle and succeed and not lose your will.''

As a major from Kentucky said to me the last time I was there, ''We 
appreciate your prayers. We have everything we need to do what we have 
to do. We have all of the weapons we need and the clothing and the food 
and the training that we need, and all of the support that we need. So 
when you pray for us, pray for the American people. Pray that the 
American people understand this enemy that we are up against. Pray that 
the American people don't lose their resolve. We will not lose ours.''
