# IN RECOGNITION OF THE RETIREMENT OF COLONEL MICHAEL SHUPP, UNITED  STATES MARINE CORPS
## `07353e500f9203033453b4ca7356eb61`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida — 17 September 2008`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor the service of 
Colonel Michael Shupp, United States Marine Corps, who is retiring 
after 27 years of dedicated service to this Nation. I came to know 
Colonel Shupp well as we travelled together on various Congressional 
delegations. As a consummate professional, he did an outstanding job 
representing the United States Marine Corps.

Colonel Shupp graduated from the Virginia Military Institute in 1981. 
In 1985, he reported to the U.S. Naval Academy and was recognized by 
President Bush and others for his outstanding performance.

In 1990, as a company commander, he deployed to Saudi Arabia for 
Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm where his unit served with 
distinction. He also deployed twice to Bosnia-Herzegovina in the late-
1990s. Since 2001, I have had the pleasure and honor to come to know 
Michael well during his assignment as the Marine Corps' Liaison to the 
U.S. House of Representatives.

Colonel Shupp assumed command of Regimental Combat Team--1 (RCT-1) on 
15 September 2004 at Camp Fallujah, Iraq while deployed on Operation 
Iraqi Freedom II. There he led the Regiment through counter-insurgency 
operations, the Battle of Fallujah (Operation Al Fajr), humanitarian 
assistance efforts and the reconstruction of Fallujah, and the first 
free Iraqi national election in January 2005. In early 2008, he became 
Legislative Assistant for the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

His personal decorations are numerous and include the Legion of Merit 
with Combat ''Valor'' Distinguishing Device and gold star in lieu of 
second award, the Bronze Star with Combat ''Valor'' Distinguishing 
Device, and the Combat Action Ribbon with gold star in lieu of second 
award.

Madam Speaker, few can match the dedication and professionalism of 
Colonel Michael Shupp. He epitomizes the values and traditions of the 
United States Marine Corps. On behalf of the U.S. Congress, I would 
thank him for his years of dedicated service. Vicki and I wish him and 
his family best wishes for continued success.
