# None
## `073f92c4614dd359abcd24a2c13f9459`
`Mr. CAZAYOUX — 10 June 2008`

---


Mr. CAZAYOUX. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Resolution 
1235, by my fellow delegation member, Congressman Scalise. This 
resolution thoughtfully commemorates the sacrifices of our armed 
services on that fateful day, 64 years ago on the beach of Normandy.

I was reminded of that sacrifice when I visited veterans over 
Memorial Day at a ceremony at the USS Kidd in Baton Rouge. I also 
attended an event for the Louisiana Honor Air Program, which helps our 
World War II veterans, many themselves D-day survivors, visit the World 
War II memorial for the first time.

The D-day assault was the most extensive amphibious invasion in 
history. Its success was a shining example of the strength and 
professionalism of our armed services.

As our thoughts and prayers go out to our young men and women who 
fight for us in Iraq and Afghanistan, we pay tribute to their 
predecessors by supporting this resolution to designate a National D-
Day Remembrance Day.

Louisiana played a huge part in the Allies' success at D-day. Indeed 
the amphibious Higgins boat itself was developed in Louisiana and based 
on boats built to navigate our swamps and marshes. For this reason, New 
Orleans is home to the National D-Day Museum and is designated by 
Congress as America's National World War II museum.

I support the resolution, and strongly encourage this House to 
designate June 6, 2008, as National D-Day Remembrance Day.

