---
---

# VETERANS OUTREACH IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `0744bce52ff7e0dd818b01e0086887f1`
`Mr. McINTYRE — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. McINTYRE. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to rise today in strong 
support of H.R. 67, the Veterans Outreach Improvement Act of 2007, a 
bill which I filed on the first day of this 110th Congress back in 
January.

I want to thank Chairman Filner and Ranking Member Buyer for their 
support, as well as Mr. Hall, the chairman of the subcommittee, and the 
gentleman who just spoke, Mr. Lamborn, the ranking member of the 
subcommittee.

This truly has been a bipartisan effort. H.R. 67 will help our 
veterans cut through the bureaucratic red tape. You know, as we 
approach Memorial Day this coming weekend, there can be no greater 
tribute that we pay to our veterans than ensuring that they receive the 
benefits that they need and deserve.

H.R. 67 would allow the VA to partner with State and local 
governments to reach out to veterans and their families, to ensure that 
they receive the benefits for which they are eligible, and assisting 
them in completing their benefits claims. The Veterans Outreach 
Improvement Act would require the Secretary of the VA to establish and 
annually review a plan to coordinate outreach activities within the 
Department so that local veterans service officers can better serve our 
veterans.

Unfortunately, many veterans, their spouses, or, in some cases, their 
surviving spouses, are unaware of the benefits to which they are 
entitled through the VA. In fact, according to a Knight-Ridder report, 
as many as 2 million poor veterans or their widows may not be receiving 
up to $22 billion annually in pensions to which they are entitled. 
Other estimates suggest that only 30 percent of our veterans receive 
the benefits for which they are eligible.

Under this bill, the Secretary of the VA would establish a grant 
program to fund outreach at the State and local levels with 
accompanying performance measures to ensure that the Federal funds are 
effectively promoting outreach. This bill would authorize $25 million 
annually in fiscal years 2008, 2009, and 2010 to fund this grant 
program. That is $1 for each veteran in America, just $1 to make sure 
that we are reaching out to these brave men and women who fought for 
our country to know about the benefits they have earned and have 
assistance in applying for them. It would be $25 million well spent, 
well directed. It's the least that we can do for those who have put 
their lives on the line for our country to make sure they know, 
understand and, in fact, receive the benefits for which they are 
eligible.

By providing these vital resources to veterans service offices at the 
State and Federal level, we will indeed get more bang for our buck to 
locate veterans and assist them in receiving the benefits they deserve.

This legislation is supported by the American Legion, Veterans of 
Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Iraq and Afghanistan 
Veterans of America, the Military Officers Association of America, the 
National Association of Veterans' Advocates and the National 
Association of County Veterans Service Officers.

My special thanks to Ms. Ann Knowles of Sampson County, North


Carolina, who has worked with us on this important bill in her role as 
national president of the County Veterans Service Officers.

As Memorial Day approaches, it's important that we demonstrate to 
this Nation's veterans our commitment to provide them the benefits that 
they need and deserve. By passing the Veterans Outreach Improvement 
Act, we will do just that.