---
---

# None
## `074ffba79f3786acb398155025046389`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 2 October 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 
3087, which requires the President, in coordination with the Secretary 
of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and 
other senior military leaders, to develop and transmit to Congress a 
comprehensive strategy for the redeployment of the armed forces in 
Iraq. I am in favor of requiring the President to develop a 
comprehensive strategy for the redeployment of American forces out of 
Iraq. A good plan is a good thing. A bad plan is a bad thing. But worst 
of all, is having no plan at all, which has been the sad state of 
affairs in Iraq for the past four years. So H.R. 3087 represents a 
small step in the right direction. However, there is more to be done, 
much more.

While I am not opposed to this legislation requiring the 
administration to develop and transmit to the Congress a comprehensive 
strategy for redeploying our troops out of Iraq, I believe I speak for 
most Americans when I say that what we really want is to have the 
160,000 brave men and women wearing the uniform in the service of their 
country reunited with their families and friends and contributing to 
their communities back here in America.

I am working toward the day when our soldiers, marines, sailors, and 
airmen can leave Iraq and return to the United States where they can 
receive the heroes welcome they deserve. I am working toward the day 
when the President of the United States issues a proclamation calling 
upon the people of the United States to observe a national day of 
celebration commemorating military success in Iraq. I can foresee the 
day when our troops who have known heat and hardship and horror in Iraq 
are again returned to their own land where they can be with family and 
friends and enjoy freedom and faith and fun. If H.R. 3087 hastens that 
day by just 24 hours, I can support it. But I will never be satisfied 
until our troops have been delivered out of Iraq and back to their 
loved ones.

Mr. Speaker, the administration has consistently placed far too great 
an emphasis on military objectives and solutions, and has consequently 
not allowed diplomacy the role it was intended to play in our global 
system. The administration stated, ''In the coming months, the United 
States will continue to operate along four lines of operation--
security, political, economic, and diplomatic--to advance our 
objectives.'' In our war on terror, diplomacy cannot be used as a last 
resort. A war on terrorism is, as the Bush Administration has stated, a 
war for the ''hearts and minds,'' which simply cannot be won through 
military action.

Mr. Speaker, our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. 
We sent them overseas to fight an army; they are now caught in the 
midst of an insurgent civil war and political upheaval. I have, for 
some time now, argued the importance of the Congress going on record 
acknowledging for all the world to know the success of the America's 
armed forces in Iraq. Our brave troops have completed the task we set 
for them; it is time now to bring them home. Our next steps should not 
be a continuing escalation of military involvement, but instead a 
diplomatic surge.


As the former chairman and vice chairman of the 9/11 Commission, 
Thomas H. Kean and Lee H. Hamilton, recently stated, ''Military power 
is essential to our security, but if the only tool is a hammer, pretty 
soon every problem looks like a nail. We must use all the tools of U.S. 
power--including foreign aid, educational assistance and vigorous 
public diplomacy that emphasizes scholarship, libraries and exchange 
programs--to shape a Middle East and a Muslim world that are less 
hostile to our interests and values. America's long-term security 
relies on being viewed not as a threat but as a source of opportunity 
and hope.''

Despite the multitude of mistakes committed by President Bush and 
former Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, our troops have achieved a military 
success in ousting Saddam Hussein and assisting the Iraqis in 
administering a democratic election and electing a democratic 
government. However, only the Iraqi Government can secure a lasting 
peace. Time and time again, the Iraqi Government has demonstrated an 
inability to deliver on the political benchmarks that they themselves 
agreed were essential to achieving national reconciliation. Continuing 
to put the lives of our soldiers and our national treasury in the hands 
of what by most informed accounts, even by members of the Bush 
administration, is an ineffective central Iraqi government is 
irresponsible and contrary to the wishes of the overwhelming majority 
of the American people.

Last month, the House Foreign Affairs Committee, of which I am a 
member, heard testimony on the Government Accountability Office report 
on Iraqi progress toward the 18 legislative, economic, and security 
benchmarks. The Comptroller General of the GAO informed members that 
only three of these benchmarks have been met by the Maliki government. 
Despite the surge, despite increasing U.S. military involvement, the 
Iraqi government has not made substantial progress toward stabilizing 
their country. The more than 3,750 U.S. casualties and the $3,816 per 
second we are spending in Iraq have not bought peace or security.

We are not here today to debate whether there has been some decrease 
in violence in Baghdad. The United States military is a skilled and 
highly proficient organization, and where there are large numbers of 
U.S. troops,


it is unsurprising that we see fewer incidents of violence. However, it 
is our responsibility to take a longer-term view. The United States 
will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi government and 
military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to an end, and, 
when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing their nation 
will fall to Iraqis themselves. And so far, we have not seen a 
demonstrated commitment by the Iraqi government.

Mr. Speaker, President Bush stated in June 2005, ''Our strategy can 
be summed up this way: As the Iraqis stand up, we will stand down.'' 
Instead of concentrating on building local capacity and applying 
pressure to the Maliki government to force them to take responsibility 
for the destiny of their nation, the Administration has chosen to 
pursue policies, namely the Baghdad security plan, that focus on 
continued combat by U.S. forces, rather than transferring 
responsibilities to Iraqis. As a result, Iraqi security forces, ISF 
remain entirely dependent upon U.S. troops; the August 2007 National 
Intelligence Estimate reports that the ISF ''have not improved enough 
to conduct major combat operations independent of the Coalition'' and 
''remain reliant on the Coalition for important aspects of logistics 
and combat support.'' With the New Way Forward strategy, American 
troops continue to shoulder the majority of the war effort.


How will we know when the American forces are no longer needed? In 
testimony before a Joint Foreign Affairs-Armed Services Committees 
hearing last week, both General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker painted 
an optimistic picture of the situation in Iraq, making frequent 
reference to the progress and success in the Anbar province. However, 
Iraqi Parliament member and leading Shi'a cleric, Jamal Al-Din, said in 
a Congressional Briefing the following day that he did not recognize 
the country they described as the Iraq he represents, an Iraq that 
continues to be riddles with factionalism, extremism, and domestic 
strife. Even the administration's report projects a daunting list of 
challenges that face American troops on Iraq as well as Iraqis. These 
include: communal struggle for power between Shi'a majority and Sunni 
Kurd and other minorities; Al-Qaeda extremists in Iraq acting as 
accelerants for ethno-sectarian violence; Iranian lethal support to 
Shi'a militants; and foreign support to extremists in Iraq. And while 
General Petraeus and the Bush administration have been stressing the 
progress made in the region and the need for more time, they failed to 
note that sizeable increase in ethno-sectarian deaths in July and 
August and the fact that ethno-sectarian violence presents a 
substantial challenge to stability in the region, particularly in rural 
areas where security presence is light.

And while the situation in Iraq presents an open-ended military 
challenge to our forces abroad, our presence in the region may be 
hindering the security of our Nation. Evidence suggests that not only 
is increased U.S. military presence in Iraq not making that nation more 
secure, it may also be threatening our national security by damaging 
our ability to respond to real threats to our own homeland. The 
recently released video by Osama bin Laden serves to illustrate that 
President Bush has not caught this international outlaw, nor brought 
him to justice. Instead, he has diverted us from the real war on terror 
to the war of his choice in Iraq.

Recently, the former chairman and vice chairman of the 9/11 
commission, Thomas H. Kean and Lee H. Hamilton, published an op-ed in 
the Washington Post examining the question of whether our nation is 
safer today, six years after 9/11. Kean and Hamilton concluded, ''We 
still lack a sense of urgency in the face of grave danger.'' The 
persistence of this threat is attributed to ''a mixed record of reform, 
a lack of focus, and a resilient foe,'' and the authors note that our 
own actions have contributed to a rise of radicalization and rage in 
the Muslim world. Kean and Hamilton write that ''no conflict drains 
more time, attention, blood, treasure, and support from our worldwide 
counterterrorism efforts than the war in Iraq. It has become a powerful 
recruiting and training tool for al-Qaeda.''

Mr. Speaker, Iraq faces a severe crisis. With a factionalist 
government in which parties are based on religion, a qualification that 
is strictly forbidden within the Iraqi constitution, religious, tribal, 
and ethnic tensions remain high and mere subsistence has become a 
challenge to the average citizen. The UNHCR has recently said that more 
than two million Iraqi's have claimed refugee status abroad since the 
invasion, while an additional 60,000 people flee their homes each 
month. In a recent statement, Ambassador Crocker the admission of 
refugees was ''bogged down by major bottlenecks.''

The Administration has spent so much time and money on its military 
strategy that it is ill-equipped to handle the human rights atrocities 
that are occurring. And while the United States delays admission of 
refugees based on a myriad of bureaucratic security checks, Ambassador 
Crocker states, ''refugees who have fled Iraq continue to be a 
vulnerable population while living in Jordan and Syria.''


Finally, Mr. Speaker, I would like to draw attention to the lack of 
adequate oversight of the American war effort. Given the enormous 
amount of resources involved, coupled with the catastrophic costs in 
human lives, we would certainly expect adequate management of U.S. 
funds and military supplies. We would expect clear records of exactly 
where those $10 billion a month is going, and to whom it is being 
given. And yet, the GAO reports that the Pentagon has lost track of 
over 190,000 weapons, given to Iraqis, particularly in 2004 and 2005. 
The report states that the U.S. military does not know what happened to 
30 percent of the weapons the United States distributed to Iraqi forces 
from 2004 through early this year as part of an effort to train and 
equip the troops. These weapons could be used to kill our American 
troops.

In addition, only yesterday, the Iraqi government stated that it 
would review the status of all private security firms operating in the 
country. This announcement came after a controversial gunfight on 
Sunday, involving the U.S.-based firm Blackwater USA, left eight 
civilians dead. Mr. Speaker, reports indicate that there are currently 
at least 28 private security companies operating in Iraq, employing 
thousands of security guards. This incident suggests the need for 
superior oversight and accountability for contractors in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, the real tragedy of this war has been the deaths of so 
many of our American sons and daughters. At current count, the 
Department of Defense had confirmed a total of 3,808 U.S. casualties. 
In addition, more than 28,009 have been wounded in the Iraq war since 
it began in March 2003. June, July, and August have marked the 
bloodiest months yet in the conflict, and U.S. casualties in Iraq are 
62 percent higher this year than at this time in 2006. This misguided, 
mismanaged, and misrepresented war has claimed too many lives of our 
brave servicemen; its depth, breadth, and scope are without precedent 
in American history.

Before I close, Mr. Speaker, I would like to discuss briefly an 
important legislative proposal that I will soon introduce. This 
legislation, the ''Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 
2007,'' recognizes the extraordinary performance of the Armed Forces in 
achieving the military objectives of the United States in Iraq, 
encourages the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the 
people of the United States to observe a national day of celebration 
commemorating the military success of American troops in Iraq, and 
provides other affirmative and tangible expressions of appreciation 
from a grateful nation to all veterans of the war in Iraq.

There are many interesting and important legislative proposals 
relating to the war in Iraq. Most of them, however, are contentious and 
divisive making it difficult for them to attract broad support across 
the aisle. In this respect my legislation is different. That is because 
it involves an issue over which there should be widespread and broad-
based consensus. We should all be able to agree that one good and 
sufficient reason to redeploy U.S. troops out of Iraq is because they 
have achieved their mission objectives. They have been victorious in 
every battle and have won the military victory they were sent to win in 
March 2003. They are victors and heroes who have never been defeated on 
the battlefield.

Blaming the current chaos in Iraq on our military is like blaming the 
Continental Army for the outbreak of the Civil War. In each case, the 
armed forces did their jobs--they won the war they were sent to fight; 
in each case, it was the civilian leadership that failed to win or 
maintain the peace.


The Armed Forces of the United States are not to be used to respond 
to 911 calls from governments like Iraq's that have done all they can 
to take responsibility for the security of their country and safety of 
their own people. The United States cannot do for Iraq what Iraqis are 
not willing to do for themselves.

When our heroic young men and women willingly sacrifice life or limb 
on the battlefield, the nation has a moral obligation to ensure that 
they are treated with respect and dignity. One reason we are the 
greatest nation in the world is because of the brave young men and 
women fighting for us in Iraq and Afghanistan. They deserve honor, they 
deserve dignity, and they deserve to know that a grateful nation cares 
about them.

Outside of my office there is a poster-board with the names and faces 
of those heroes from Houston, Texas who have lost their lives wearing 
the uniform of our country. I think to myself how lucky I am to live in 
a nation where so many brave young men and women volunteer to the 
ultimate sacrifice so that their countrymen can enjoy the blessings of 
liberty. Now is the time to remind our heroes they have not been 
forgotten. More importantly, America has not forgotten them.

My legislation, the Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 
2007, pays fitting tribute to the valor, devotion, and heroism of


those who fought in Iraq in the following ways. First, my bill provides 
an express finding by the Congress that the objectives for which the 
AUMF resolution of 2002 authorized the use of force in Iraq were 
achieved by the Armed Forces of the United States.

Second, my bill authorizes the President to issue a proclamation 
calling upon the American people to observe a national day of 
celebration commemorating the Armed Forces' military success in Iraq. 
This will help ensure that the Iraq War does not suffer the fate of 
other open-ended engagements like the Korean War, which is often called 
the ''Forgotten War.''

Third, my bill authorizes funds to be appropriated and awarded by the 
Secretary of Defense to state and local governments to assist in 
defraying the costs of conducting suitable ''Success in Iraq'' 
homecoming and commemoration activities and in creating appropriate 
memorials honoring those who lost their lives in the war. Many of the 
casualties in the Iraq War come from small towns and villages in rural 
or economically depressed areas. The local governments are already 
facing substantial fiscal pressures and need help coming up with the 
necessary funds.

Finally, my bill creates a program and authorizes funds to be 
appropriated pursuant to which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
award to each veteran of the Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring 
Freedom a grant of $5,000 to facilitate the transition to civilian 
life. We don't want veterans to end up homeless or unemployed or unable 
to take their kids on a vacation or start a business. This $5,000 bonus 
is but a small token of the affection the people of the United States 
have for those who risked their lives so that we may continue to live 
in freedom.

Mr. Speaker, perhaps no issue will more define this Congress than how 
we conclude this misguided conflict. I am proud to be a part of a 
Congress that is listening to the clearly expressed will of the 
American people, and I remain, as ever, committed to ending this truly 
tragic conflict.