---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `0751ad9360be349660f13af83fd4aafc`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 1 December 2010`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, today I honor SPC David S. Robinson, 25, 
of Fort Smith, AR, who died November 20, 2010, in Zabul Province, 
Afghanistan, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. According to 
initial reports, Specialist Robinson died of injuries sustained when 
his military vehicle overturned.

My heart goes out to the family of Specialist Robinson, who made the 
ultimate sacrifice on behalf of our Nation. Along with all Arkansans, I 
am grateful for his service and for the service and sacrifice of all of 
our military servicemembers and their families.

More than 11,000 Arkansans on Active Duty and more than 10,000 
Arkansas reservists have served in Iraq or Afghanistan since September 
11, 2001. These men and women have shown tremendous courage and 
perseverance through the most difficult of times. As neighbors, as 
Arkansans, and as Americans, it is incumbent upon us to do everything 
we can to honor their service and to provide for them and their 
families, not only when they are in harm's way but also when they 
return home. It is the least we can do for those whom we owe so much.

Specialist Robinson was assigned to A Troop, 2nd Squadron, 2nd 
Stryker Cavalry Regiment, V Corps, Vilseck, Germany. His mother resides 
in Fort Smith, AR, and his father in Canton, PA. His wife and children 
reside in Clarksville, TN.











 Staff Sergeant Kevin Matthew Pape
