---
---

# None
## `0751f504e3f8392c5e813d29fd60d2bc`
`Ms. STABENOW — 26 February 2008`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, first let me indicate that as my 
colleagues were speaking a moment ago, I think it is incredibly 
important to understand that, in fact, we are talking about a threat in 
80 countries, and we do have a FISA law that, in fact, has worked, and 
no one is suggesting we do not have the need for strong intelligence 
and support for our intelligence operations. In fact, that is what all 
of us are willing to see happen. But what we are talking about in this 
resolution is whether we are going to continue to keep our focus on a 
country that is now in the middle of a civil war or whether we are 
going to redirect our efforts to address our real threats not only 
abroad but threats at home.

When we talk about the threats to our families, I would suggest that 
if we are now spending somewhere around $15 billion a month, some say, 
that when we look at what could be done here at home to address the 
very real threats of job loss, people losing their homes, children 
walking into schools that are crumbling, the lack of health care, those 
are also very important threats.

So we certainly want to make sure we are safe and address those 
threats abroad, but, more broadly, we have many threats affecting our 
families right now, and they expect us to use the very best judgment to 
keep them safe both from threats outside our country as well as from 
threats at home, including a huge economic cloud over many families.

Madam President, I rise today to lend my strong voice of support for 
the Feingold legislation to provide the safe redeployment of U.S. 
troops from Iraq, and to refocus us on, in fact, those things that are 
threats to our country and to the families of this country. Tonight, 
591 members of the Michigan National Guard will bed down after a long 
day of working and fighting and facing danger at every turn in the 
harshest physical conditions imaginable. For every single one of these 
men and women, a family will go to sleep in Michigan tonight worried 
that their son or daughter, father or mother, sister or brother won't 
make it home.

The true cost of this war cannot be measured in dollars and cents. 
The real cost is measured in the sacrifices of our brave men and women 
and their families every day. This cost is more than just the 
possibility and the reality of physical danger. This cost includes the 
sacrifices that every single American family makes by being apart from 
each other time and time again. It isn't right what is happening; it 
isn't fair; it isn't safe. It isn't making us safer as a country, and 
we need to change this policy.

That is why I am so grateful that, once again, Senator Reid has made 
it a priority for us to focus on the war in Iraq and what is happening 
to troops and families and people here at home, and the cost of the 
lost opportunity by spending upwards of $15 billion a month now in 
Iraq.

Tonight 591 Guard members in Iraq, with 591 families at home, 591 
will have missed birthdays, missed Father's Days and Mother's Days, 
missed high school graduations and children's first steps or 
anniversaries or family funerals or holidays; 591 will have missed 
paychecks, sidetracked careers, with small businesses and farms put in 
economic danger; 591 lives that will never be the same; 591 sets of 
missed opportunities that will never be replaced. And these members of 
the Michigan National Guard make up only a fraction of the 160,000 men 
and women in uniform currently serving bravely and honorably in Iraq, 
or the countless others who have served.

In too many cases, these men and women are back in Iraq for their 
second, third, or fourth redeployment. In addition to the 591 who are 
already deployed, there are about 1,000 members of the Michigan 
National Guard who have been mobilized and who will deploy this year. 
Many of them will be doing their second, third, or fourth deployment to 
a combat zone. This year alone, there will be a thousand more missed 
paychecks, a thousand more missed birthdays and holidays and special 
occasions, and a thousand more lives that will never be the same.

Our fighting men and women are the greatest single resource our 
military has, and this Government is abusing that resource. America 
puts our trust in our military to defend us. When our sons and 
daughters join the military, they are putting their trust in us to give 
them the tools, the resources they need, and to treat them with the 
respect they have earned. The current administration policies on 
redeployment have violated that trust. Those policies have let our 
troops down. Once again, I am proud to join with my colleague from 
Wisconsin in saying: Enough is enough when it comes to placing our 
armed services in harm's way by stretching them to the breaking point 
with redeployment after redeployment. Enough is enough when it comes to 
being in the middle of a civil war. And enough is enough when it comes 
to this administration taking its eye off the ball on the war on 
terror.

We are all aware of the worsening situation in Afghanistan. However, 
this administration continues to focus on a civil war in Iraq. Our 
Armed Forces have traveled a tough road since we invaded Iraq. They 
have shouldered a heavy burden with pride, with confidence, and with 
honor. We have asked extraordinary things from them at every turn, and 
at every turn they have delivered. They have done us all proud. They 
have faced tough situations and have done their duty. Now we need to do 
what is right for them. It is time to face the tough situations. It is 
time to make the hard choices, to make them proud of us, and it is time 
to remove them from the civil war in Iraq, to change course, and to 
refocus, as this bill does, and redistribute our resources to those 
areas that truly address the threats facing our families and our 
country.

America's soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines are always there 
when we call on them. The question is: Will we be there for them? What 
this legislation proposes is as simple as it is right. It requires our 
forces in Iraq to target


operations against al-Qaida and other international terrorist groups.

Why is this important? Because al-Qaida has declared war against us. 
We know that. The people in Iraq are in the middle of a civil war that 
is something they now have to address and come to terms with and bring 
their own resources to address. So while our troops are in Iraq, they 
should be targeting those who have said they wished to do harm to us.

Also, our troops in Iraq would be required to focus on providing 
security for U.S. personnel, of course, and that is extremely necessary 
in order to bring them home safely. I understand the Iraqi security 
forces are still developing, still learning, as I have met with them in 
traveling to Iraq. We have heard certainly of the continual need to 
train, the need for them to continue to develop, and we know we have a 
role in supporting that, and this bill recognizes that fact. It would 
allow our troops to continue to train Iraqi security forces, but only 
if our troops are training the Iraqis who have not been involved in the 
sectarian violence or attacks against our troops.


This bill will allow our troops to continue to train the Iraqi 
security forces, but only if that training does not result in our 
troops being in combat. Training, yes; but they need to step up at this 
point, after 5 years, and be the ones at the front line.

This bill also brings our troops home safely. It specifically allows 
our military to train and equip itself to ensure its safety. Most 
importantly, it requires that we begin to bring our troops home.

This administration said a surge was necessary; that the surge would 
give the Government of Iraq the time to reach the political solutions 
necessary to end their civil war and to end the violence. They said 
time was needed. Well, the Government has had time, and during this 
time our troops have continued to pay the price. Our troops have been 
caught in the middle of a civil war. They have been victims of IEDs. 
They have come home with post-traumatic stress disorder and other 
mental and physical ailments. The bottom line is, it is time for our 
troops to be placed first and to begin to bring them home.

That is all this bill does, and it does that while allowing our 
troops to continue to focus on who we all agree is the real enemy: Al-
Qaida.

On October 11, 2002, I was proud to be 1 of 23 Members of this body 
who stood in this Chamber and said the war was the wrong choice. This 
administration, I believe, since that time has in fact failed our 
troops and the American people by committing our troops to a war 
without a clear reason or goal, and by squandering resources that are 
desperately needed here at home to rebuild America and to invest in 
American communities. This administration has failed our troops by not 
having a clear mission for our Armed Forces in Iraq, by not providing 
the proper equipment and body armor and logistical support for the 
troops, by poor planning on the invasion in Iraq and the lack of 
planning for how to secure the country and what would happen after the 
initial attack. I believe they have failed by sending our brave men and 
women back into harm's way over and over again without the proper rest 
between redeployments.

History will be a harsh judge of this administration, because I 
believe they have failed the American people. This administration 
failed because they took their eye off the ball. This legislation is 
about putting our eye back on the target of what we ought to be doing 
together.

In closing, let me reemphasize the fact that while the most important 
thing is to be supporting our troops, to be addressing the threats to 
them while they are in harm's way, to address the lives lost and the 
people who are coming home who will need help the rest of their lives, 
it is also important to look at this from the standpoint of the 
precious resources that have been lost at a time when so many American 
families are struggling. We always make decisions based on values and 
priorities, and it is shocking to me, as we have seen this war go 
forward, to see upwards of, some say $12 billion, some say now upwards 
of $15 billion a month--not part of the normal budget--going directly 
on the national deficit, the national debt, to be paid by our children 
and grandchildren. But let's say it is $15 billion a month. To see that 
continue month after month after month, and to see us work together on 
a bipartisan basis to pass a critically important piece of legislation 
to increase health care for 10 million children across this country, 
which costs only $7 billion a year, and yet that is vetoed--there is 
not a willingness to invest in American children to the tune of less 
than half of what it is costing per month in Iraq--these are the wrong 
values and wrong priorities.

We see schools being rebuilt in Iraq, and yet I can go in too many 
schools in Michigan where there is a bucket in the corner to catch the 
water dripping from the roof, or we don't have the kind of computer 
technology in the classroom every single child will need to know how to 
use in any job they get, from working at a gas station to working at a 
technology company. We know we have crumbling roads and bridges here in 
America. We know every time we invest in and rebuild in America, those 
are jobs that aren't going to be outsourced to another country. Those 
are American jobs--rebuilding American roads and American bridges and 
water and sewer systems in America. We are told we can't do that, that 
there are not the resources to invest in America, but we are spending 
$15 billion a month in Iraq.

We now have a whole new group of industries producing what are called 
green collar jobs, and I am very proud to have joined in working with 
many of my colleagues to focus on the new alternative energy 
technologies and other things we need to do--small investments with 
huge results for energy independence and creating more jobs and 
addressing global warming.

And yet we consistently hear there are not the resources for any new 
investments in America. There are so many areas where we are told there 
is no money: for doing the bold research we need to solve Alzheimer's 
and Parkinson's disease and to aggressively move forward on other 
health research; the desire not to help those who lost their jobs 
because of trade, to be able to go back and get the training they need 
to be able to move on to new kinds of jobs so that we have a middle 
class in this country; and that families can pay their mortgage and 
electric bill and heating bill and know that they have the opportunity 
to keep their standard of living in our country.

There is a lot at stake. And this bill, while it focuses on what we 
need to do to change the mission, to refocus on ways to truly keep us 
safe, to begin to bring our troops home from Iraq, from a civil war 
where we need to leave and redirect our troops to those areas where, in 
fact, we will be focusing on the real threat to our country, that is, 
on the surface, what this legislation does.

I would suggest it does more than that because this is about who we 
are as Americans, what our priorities are: No. 1, how to make sure we 
are truly smart enough to be focused on what keeps us safe; and, No. 2, 
understanding that we have much to do in our country.

Our families are feeling squeezed on all sides. Communities need 
help, and we have an opportunity to not only redirect our troops and 
our focus but to redirect critical dollars to be able to make sure, in 
fact, we are finally putting the interests of America's families first.

I urge my colleagues to support this important bill.

I yield the floor.