---
---

# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `07552a80a305c0eab98683a2f6101b8c`
`Mr. INOUYE — 26 May 2010`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Madam President, I thank and commend my friend for his 
presentation. He is one of the hardest working subcommittee chairmen of 
the Appropriations Committee.

If I may, I wish to be a bit personal. As some of my colleagues are 
aware, I did put on the uniform of this land and served in a war that 
was fought about six decades ago--ancient times. A few things happened 
between that time and this war. For example, although the regiment I 
was privileged to serve in had about the highest casualties per capita 
in the European conflict, it may be hard to believe but there was not a 
single double amputee survivor.

Today, if one goes to Walter Reed Hospital, one will see dozens of 
double amputees. Why? Because of high tech. For example--I am being 
personal now--in my case, it took 9 hours to evacuate me. Nine hours? 
That is a long time. But in Italy, they have hills. We had no 
helicopters in those days. You had to be carried by hand. As a result, 
no brain injuries survived and no double amputees survived. So the 
families did not have the problem then that they are having now.

There is another big difference. For example, if I wrote a letter as 
a soldier in Italy, that letter was censored by my commanding officer. 
I could not say anything about the war. All I could say is: Italy is a 
beautiful place. The food is fabulous. Nothing else. You could not say 
that my buddy Tom was shot. What they received at home were pleasant 
notes.

Today we have what is known as cell phones and other technology. You 
can communicate with your spouse every day. And these items are not 
censored.

I have had members on my staff with husbands fighting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. They communicate all the time. Imagine if you are 
communicating with your husband in Iraq and suddenly you see that 
evening on CNN a program with that outfit in combat and your husband 
does not call you the next day. The stress disorder complex is not only 
hitting the GIs, it is hitting families. And now we are trying to cut 
VA, the Veterans' Administration, when the need is much greater? I 
cannot understand that.

I concur with the chairman that, if anything, if we are to show 
appreciation and gratitude, we should not be cutting, we should be 
helping. I commend the Senator.

I yield the floor.