# None
## `07578ca1f797c9ed46ce1a996c3b2617`
`Mrs. BOXER — 2 October 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I thank the clerk for reading my 
amendment. I had it read because it is such common sense. I think if 
you went out on the street and you asked any American: Do you think 
there are people serving in the military who, within the last 5 years, 
were convicted of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon or a sex 
crime or a hate crime or making a terrorist threat that was a phony 
terrorist threat? They would say: Oh, no; no one like that would be let 
in, not if they did something like that within the last 5 years.

That is what leads me to this commonsense amendment. It is hard for 
me to believe I have to fight for this. This amendment may not pass, 
which is stunning to me when I think of how clear the issue is.

I guess I would ask a mom or a dad who has a son or a daughter over 
there, would they want their child in a foxhole with someone who was 
convicted twice of assault with a deadly weapon. Do you want someone in 
a foxhole with your son or daughter who was convicted of a sex crime? I 
think they would say no.

So here is where we are. In recent years, the U.S. Army in particular 
has dramatically increased the number of waivers it grants for 
admission into its ranks of those convicted of a felony. Now, let me be 
clear. It is against the rules to allow anyone to come into the 
military who has a felony conviction. However, there is a loophole 
which says waivers can be granted in certain circumstances.

Now, I totally understand. For example, let's say as a young man or 
woman some potential recruit tried drugs because it was the thing in 
his school. He did it, but he regrets it and is over it. He was 
convicted, but he has promised never to use drugs again. OK, give 
someone a chance. That is the American way. Give someone a chance. But 
for these particular felonies, which I will outline again and explain 
what they are, I think if someone has been found guilty within the last 
5 years, it is an open-and-shut case.

Now, I understand the Army is under incredible strain right now and 
is facing a difficult recruitment environment. I realize there may be 
times that they are going to ask for these waivers. I know they do it 
for health reasons and other things, but there is a point at which it 
goes too far; that is, the point at which it is dangerous. When you 
hear about the increase in felony recruitment, you will agree it is 
alarming. Rather than strengthening our military, it weakens our 
military.

Listen to these numbers: In 2004, the Army granted 360 waivers to 
recruits with felonies on their records. In 2005, the number grew to 
571. And in 2006, the number grew to 901. The 901 figure is a 59-
percent increase over the 2005 number, and a 150-percent increase over 
the 2004 figure. So I believe the spirit of the law that allows these 
waivers is being violated. Nobody thought that it would reach these 
proportions.

Again, I think people deserve a second chance in this country if they 
have served their time and they are rehabilitated. That is why I have 
in this amendment a 5-year cooling off period so we know that they have 
been clean for 5 years of these types of crimes. But the Army should 
not drastically lower its standards because it cannot find enough 
recruits, and it should not seek out individuals who have had 
disturbing personal histories involving violence.


I just read in the newspaper the other day that the military is going 
to these criminals if they are undergoing rehab. They go right there. 
Army recruiters actually attended a job fair for ex-convicts in Houston 
in August of 2006. Many experts believe this is leading to a spike in 
gang activity in the military. Listen to this FBI report: ''Gang 
related activity in the U.S. military is increasing.'' This is a direct 
quote. ''Members of nearly every major street gang have been identified 
on both domestic and international military installations.'' According 
to this report, these members can ''disrupt good order and discipline'' 
while in the military.

Here is the alarming part, and this is the FBI--the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation--speaking, not Senator Barbara Boxer or any other 
Senator. Upon discharge, ''they may employ their military training 
against law enforcement officials and rival gang members and such 
military training could ultimately result in a more organized, 
sophisticated and deadly gang as well as an increase in deadly assaults 
on law enforcement officials.'' The FBI is saying that an abuse of 
these waivers is leading to a more dangerous America, more dangerous 
for law enforcement--more gangs.

This is not what our country needs. It is not what our wonderful 
brave men and women in uniform need right now. They have enough 
problems to deal with in Iraq. They are in the middle of a civil war. 
This President has no plan to get them out. While the military says 
there is no military solution, this President is doing nothing about a 
long-term solution. We find our young men and women in harm's way in 
the middle of a civil war in a mission that has changed about five or 
six times, and now they have to worry that they are serving next to 
someone who has been convicted of aggravated assault with a deadly 
weapon, arson, terrorist threatening, or sexual misconduct--imagine, 
with all they have to worry about.



I am going to share with my colleagues a chart that I do not believe 
has ever been made public before. This is the list of all the different 
felony waivers that have been granted--adult, juvenile, and the total. 
Look at this list of waivers that has been granted. I am going to go 
through, for my colleagues and for the American people to see, what 
crimes have been committed by recruits.

I mentioned the top two and aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, 
then arson, attempt to commit a felony, breaking and entering, burglary 
with burglary tools, a bad check worth less than $500, embezzlement, 
forgery, hate crime, larceny, narcotics, negligent vehicular homicide, 
riot, robbery, sexual misconduct, stolen property knowingly received, 
terrorist threatening, unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, criminal 
libel, illegal or fraudulent use of a credit card--$500 or more--
perjury or subornation of perjury, car theft, mail--abstracting, 
destroying--indecent acts with a minor, manslaughter, kidnaping or 
abducting a child. Kidnaping or abducting a child? We took in three 
recruits.

What I have attempted to do is pick out the ones I believe would be 
an open-and-shut case here of where we would not want someone recruited 
into the military who has been convicted of these particular crimes: 
aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, arson, hate crime, sexual 
misconduct, or terrorist threatening. There were 13 of those.

I want to protect our men and women in uniform. I have deep respect 
for them. In my State, we have lost more than any other State--23 
percent those killed in Iraq have been from or based in my State. I 
want the men and women from my State and every other State to feel 
comfortable that their buddies will truly be their buddies and that 
they share the same values of right and wrong. I want to keep it that 
way.

Larry Korb, who served as Assistant Secretary of Defense under Ronald 
Reagan, said, ''The more of those people you take the more problems you 
are going to have and the less effective they are going to be.'' This 
is Larry Korb, who served as Assistant Secretary of Defense under 
President Reagan: ''The more of those people you take the more problems 
you are going to have.''

GEN Barry McCaffrey, who commanded U.S. forces during the gulf war, 
said, ''By and large these are flawed recruits. Those getting waivers 
won't be sergeants.'' General McCaffrey pointed to the lessons of 
postwar Vietnam. ''It took us a decade to take a fractured Army and 
turn it around. We don't have 3 years this time.'' That is Barry 
McCaffrey.

Retired LTG William Odom, who was the Army's chief intelligence 
officer from 1981 to 1985, has called the increase in waivers 
''disturbing.'' The Army's chief of intelligence for 4 years called the 
increase in waivers ''disturbing.''

The last thing our servicemembers need to worry about is whether 
there are violent felons in their ranks. It sets back the quality of 
our forces. It can severely set back our mission.

I would like to share one particular story about lowering standards. 
I think we are all very familiar with the story of PVT Steven Green. As 
you will remember, Private Green is the soldier charged with the deaths 
of an Iraqi family of four. According to the reports, Private Green 
went to the home of an Iraqi family with three other soldiers. He ended 
up raping the 14-year-old daughter before killing her and setting her 
body on fire. He is also alleged to have killed the other family 
members. This turned into an international news story that once again 
brought negative attention to our country, infuriating Iraqis and 
making the lives of our troops that much more difficult.

Private Green was admitted to the Army after being given a waiver. In 
the case of Private Green, it was a waiver for a misdemeanor offense, 
and I am not even stopping that with my amendment. I am not even 
stopping that with my amendment. I am going to the most egregious 
crimes. That story illustrates the potential consequences of going down 
a path where standards are dramatically lowered.


Let me spell out specifically how my amendment addresses the issue. 
The amendment simply says the military cannot offer a waiver for 
enlistment to the Armed Forces to individuals convicted of these 
felonies: aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, arson, hate crime, 
sexual misconduct, or terrorist threatening. They cannot get a waiver 
if they have committed any of these and they were convicted of it in 
the last 5 years.

If someone stands up and says: Give people a second chance, then they 
have not read my amendment because we are giving people a second 
chance. We are saying: If you are clean for 5 years, OK. And we are not 
even touching all these other waivers--unauthorized use of a motor 
vehicle, car theft, even indecent acts with a minor. I will tell you, 
if I had my way, I would put that one on--and kidnaping--but I just 
picked five.

So we provide for a cooling-off period, and we believe that cooling-
off period--5 years clean--will give the military some information that 
people are, in fact, on the straight and narrow path.

Unfortunately, we do not see the global challenges we face going 
away. We need our men and women in uniform not only to be soldiers but 
to be ambassadors to the world. They are the best we have. This 
amendment helps to ensure we have the right men and women to do that 
job. I hope we will get support for this amendment. I say to my 
colleagues who vote against this amendment, the only message you are 
sending to the people who are serving honorably is: You know what, we 
are so desperate, we are willing to put you at risk.

Again, I ask a rhetorical question: How would you feel if your son or 
daughter or grandson or granddaughter wound up in an awful situation 
with someone who had committed and was convicted of aggravated assault 
with a deadly weapon?

There is one more thing I would like to do before I yield the floor, 
and that is to describe these felonies, how they are defined.

Arson, generally, is the malicious burning of another's dwelling. It 
can be intentional or a fire set with reckless disregard of obvious 
risks, in some States. Seven waivers were granted for arson.

Aggravated assault with a deadly weapon is the intentional creation 
of reasonable fear of imminent bodily harm by use a deadly weapon. An 
example would be pointing a gun at someone, pointing a knife, swinging 
a baseball bat, threatening violence or harm with a weapon in a manner 
to create a reasonable fear of imminent bodily harm--40 waivers for 
that.

Terrorist threatening: intentionally making false statements 
regarding a weapon of mass destruction such as placement on a 
government or school property--essentially placing a fake WMD on 
government property without permission; threatening to cause death or 
serious injury for the purpose of terrorizing others, their property, 
school, or teachers; a false statement that could cause dangerous 
evacuation from buildings or airports. It could be bomb threats, 
threats of poison-laced letters, or threats of mass shootings at 
school. Waivers granted there.

Hate crimes. Most of the States penalize crimes of violence or 
intimidation based on race, color, religion, national origin, and when 
we are looking at our military we are looking at the face of diversity, 
and someone who has been convicted of a hate crime within the last 5 
years--I think they need to think about what this country stands for 
and how it is based on equality for all before they are taken into the 
military.

Sexual misconduct. Rape, sexual assault, forcible sodomy, sodomy of a 
minor--those are nonwaiver, but the category that is waiverable is 
solicitation of sex, indecent exposure, illegal possession of 
pornography.

So these are crimes which I think simply are too much to ask our men 
and women in uniform to deal with in new recruits.

I would point out something else. Because the Army has been so 
desperate to get new recruits, they are paying tens of thousands of 
dollars, and now we have a situation where these convicted felons are 
getting this money, to boot. It may not be that many people--maybe we 
are talking about 100. Overall, it has been 90+. We are making a point 
here that our men and women in uniform deserve better protection than 
this. We fight so hard, and we must fight to get them the bulletproof 
vests, to get them the up-armored HMMWVs


to protect them from IEDs, from all the horrors they face. Yet we allow 
into the military--indeed, we pay bonuses to get into the military--
people who have been convicted of very serious crimes. It is not fair, 
it is not right, it is not just, and I hope there will be strong 
support for this amendment.

I yield the floor.

Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.