# CONDEMNING MIDEAST TV PROGRAMMING THAT INCITES VIOLENCE
## `075afada0e2a3198250dd38d3cde2a29`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 9 September 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
this resolution and yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I want to commend my friend from New York, Joe Crowley, 
for introducing this timely and important resolution. Despite the shaky 
cease-fire reached between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip, Hamas 
has neither changed its explicitly stated aim to destroy the State of 
Israel nor given up the use of terrorism and violence as a means to 
achieve that end.

But while Hamas' use of terrorism to undermine peace and destroy 
Israel is well understood in the West, few are aware of its 
sophisticated use of broadcast media to spread hatred of the United 
States, Israel and Jews, and to incite Palestinian youth to violence.

Hamas has had its own television station, known as al-Aqsa TV, which 
is telecast throughout the Arab world. Among its many crude and 
contemptible practices, al-Aqsa TV utilizes cartoon characters and 
puppets, one resembling Disney's universally recognized Mickey Mouse, 
in programming that advocates terrorism, anti-Americanism and anti-
Semitism.

On March 30, 2008, this TV station broadcast a puppet show depicting 
the stabbing and murder of the President of the United States. This 
morally twisted type of children's programming violates all civilized 
norms, cynically undermines prospects for Israeli-Palestinian peace, 
and flagrantly violates phase I of the U.S.-backed roadmap for peace, 
calling for an end to incitement in Palestinian society. It even 
stigmatizes the Palestinian people who want peace, many of them 
fighting every day to ensure that there is an opportunity for 
collaboration and dialogue and peaceful discussion with Israel. In 
fact, I would imagine that children who are watching are certainly not 
children who are intending to grow up to be terrorists.

The resolution puts this body on record supporting the overdue 
designation of al-Aqsa television as a specially designated global 
terrorist entity. Such a designation would follow logically from the 
administration's designation of Hezbollah's al-Manar TV as a specially 
designated global terrorist entity 3 years ago. This designation proved 
useful in persuading a number of satellite companies around the world 
not to transmit al-Manar's hate-filled broadcasts. Designating Hamas' 
al-Aqsa TV would similarly send a strong message to satellite companies 
transmitting its vile programming, including one of Europe's largest 
satellite companies, the privately-owned, French-based Eutelsat.

In addition, this resolution calls on Saudi Arabia, the primary 
shareholder in the Arab League-owned satellite Arabsat, to take the 
lead in ending Arabsat's transmission of al-Aqsa TV, as well as 
Hezbollah's al-Manar TV. Thanks to Arabsat, both al-Aqsa TV and al-
Manar TV are seen throughout the Middle East and beyond.

Unfortunately, our friend and ally Egypt is also involved in 
transmissions of hate media. Egypt's state-owned satellite, NileSat, 
broadcasts at least two terrorist mouthpieces, the Hezbollah station 
and the Iraq focused station and an Arabic language network affiliated 
with anti-American insurgent activity. This latter network consistently 
telecasts material glorifying insurgents and their attacks on American 
forces.

It would be especially important if our allies and friends would 
recognize that it is our intent to collaborate and work toward 
uplifting forthright, educational, politically sound conversation and 
dialogue. It is not our intent, of course, to control their own 
sovereignty, but it is important when that gets out into the world 
marketplace that it is civil, that it is strong, that it is democratic, 
that it is fair, and that it is reflective of the human dignity of all 
people.

It is deeply dismaying that one of our strongest allies in the region 
and one of the largest recipients of U.S. Foreign assistance tolerates 
the advocacy of attacks on Americans in Iraq on its state-controlled 
satellite provider.

I know that the terrorists like Hamas and Hezbollah will not soon


abandon their mass-media means of hatred and violence, but it is long 
past the time for all state-owned and privately-owned satellite 
companies around the world to cease transmitting these destructive 
messages that encourage the murder of Americans and Israelis.

That is why I strongly support this resolution, and I urge all my 
colleagues to join me in that support.

I reserve the balance of my time.