---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `0764f3af2577d14ca7a8fa0dc3b4a6b1`
`Mr. COLE of Oklahoma — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. COLE of Oklahoma. I thank the gentleman from Michigan.

Mr. Speaker, I have listened to the debate over the last 2 days, 
really dozens and dozens of speeches, and, frankly, speeches of 
exceptionally high quality on both sides of the issue. I have listened 
particularly to the speakers who were here in 2002 when the momentous 
decision to go to war was actually made. Those who were opposed, I have 
admired because in their opposition in October of 2002 they were taking 
an unpopular position, but clearly one that they believed in, and I 
think they deserve our respect for that, even if I don't agree with 
that particular point of view.

Second, I have watched those who voted in favor of that tough 
decision, and I have watched as they have stuck to that decision 
because they believe the stakes are so important for the United States. 
They have done so even when public opinion has turned against their 
position. And I admire that.

Frankly, I have watched speakers who have changed their position, who 
were first for the war and now are opposed to it. It is easy to deride 
people in that position. But, quite frankly, I have watched them, and 
they are anguished in their opinions and their conclusions; they are 
sensitive, obviously, to the easy and cheap criticism of opportunism. 
And I particularly admire those, frankly, in my own party who have 
broken with their President and their party over a position that they 
believe in deeply. I don't agree with them, but I admire them.

What I don't admire is the Democratic leadership that has brought us 
a resolution which is divisive without being decisive. It orders no 
action. I have spoken on that at length before, and I am not going to 
go into it now. I want to instead focus on the issues at stake.

Like all of those elected in 2002, 2004, 2006, I was not part of the 
initial decision to go to war, and, frankly, I often think how 
fortunate I was to have been spared that responsibility. But, of 
course, none of us on this floor ever truly escapes responsibility.

My attitude toward this conflict reflects that of my district and, 
frankly, that of my father, who was a career noncommissioned officer in 
the United States Army. I recall once when he was talking about war, he 
summed it up pretty simply: When you are in it, win it.

That is what I have tried to do with my vote, my voice, my energy, 
since I have been elected to represent my district. I have done so 
because, frankly, in some areas I have seen progress. Removing Saddam 
Hussein from power was a good thing and I am proud that that was 
accomplished, and it would not have been accomplished without the valor 
and the professionalism of American men and women in arms.

I am pleased to have seen a Constitution formed in Iraq that is the 
envy of the Arab world.

I am proud to have seen three elections take place, all of which had 
increasingly high participation and had, frankly, higher percentages 
than vote in our own elections.

I was hopeful when I saw a coalition government formed that had 
Kurds, that had Sunnis, that had Shia, that had other elements in the 
Iraqi population.

I have been impressed with Iraqi forces that do stand and fight. And 
let's make no mistake about it: Most of the fighting and dying 
militarily is being done by Iraqis and they deserve our respect for 
that.

And, frankly, I think like all Americans, I was enormously relieved 
when I see actors like the late al-Zarqawi, people who would kill 
Americans anywhere, anytime, who are not from Iraq, being sought out 
with the help of Iraqis and killed far away from our shores. That is 
important, and that is something we should acknowledge.

I have also supported the war because I feared the consequences of 
defeat in Iraq. And, believe me, there are consequences to losing the 
war. These are real.

If we are not successful in Iraq, we will have an emboldened enemy. 
Not just the terrorists that we deal with, they are bad enough, but 
also the states that use terrorism as a tool of diplomacy. States like 
Iran, states like Syria, will draw comfort.

We will have demoralized friends in the region and around the world 
that wonder whether or not they can really count on us once we make a 
commitment.

We will see the death of an infant democracy, never a good thing for 
the lovers of freedom.

We will see a sectarian bloodbath in Iraq that will result in the 
death of tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of Iraqis.

And we will see a destabilized region in which the United States has 
vital interests and to which our own security is intimately tied.

I acknowledge that things have not gone in Iraq as I, certainly, and 
I think everybody, regardless of their position on the issue, would 
have hoped. There is no question that we underestimated what was 
required, not to defeat Saddam, frankly, that was done brilliantly, but 
to secure Iraq.

We have underestimated the persistence of and the difficulty the 
outside players would create for us. We underestimated how anxious 
people inside Iraq would be to settle old scores instead of to look 
ahead. And we have underestimated the impact of the divided loyalties 
of Iraqis themselves, where so often we see sect against sect, 
ethnicity against ethnicity, tribe against tribe.

But these difficulties and mistakes, regrettable as they are, do not 
change the consequences of losing in Iraq, for the region, for Iraqis, 
and, most importantly, for ourselves.

At this critical point, the President has offered a plan to avert 
defeat, and, if the Iraqis are up to the task, to turn the tide. It has 
an American military component, and that is what this resolution deals 
with.

But contrary to what I have heard on the floor, it is not a major 
escalation in forces. It is not an effort to allow the Iraqis to avoid 
the fighting. Nor is it an effort to win militarily. It is an effort to 
buy the time needed to create an environment in Iraq that will allow 
Iraqis to succeed politically. It will allow them to begin to push 
toward the reconciliation process and review the de-Baathification 
program. It will allow them to share power with one another. It will 
allow provisional elections to take place. It will allow oil revenue to 
be distributed more equitably. It will allow Iraqi units the time to 
train, stand up and continue to fight and fight more professionally and 
proficiently than they have.

The U.S. force is indispensable in achieving these measures, but it 
will not be and it is not intended to be decisive. What will win or 
lose in Iraq ultimately are Iraqi politicians: Can they put their 
differences aside? Iraqi soldiers: Can they fight for their country 
instead of against one another? And the Iraqi people: Can they put 
aside the differences and demand better leadership than they have 
received thus far from their own people.

Some will say this is a hopeless task, but our military leaders and 
our troops in the field don't tell us that. General Petraeus, a man 
whom all sides acknowledge is not only professional, capable, but is 
dedicated and a great patriot, tells us he thinks this is an achievable 
mission if he has the forces he needs to succeed. The average soldiers 
that I talked to from my district


and other units also tell me they believe this is doable. But they want 
us in Congress and in this country to have the political resolve to 
match their personal courage.

History teaches us that freedom is a powerful force. We should trust 
it. And it also teaches us sometimes it needs outside help. All of us 
as Americans are justly proud of the American Revolution. We often 
forget it took a French fleet, French army and Dutch money to finally 
finish the job.

Mr. Speaker, because I believe the consequences of losing in Iraq are 
horrible for Iraqis, for Americans, and for the cause of liberty and 
our friends around the world; because I think that we, the Iraqis and 
the Americans together, can still win; because I believe that defeat 
has catastrophic consequences for the United States, I urge the 
rejection of this resolution and support the cause that our fighting 
men and women are so nobly advancing in Iraq.

