# TAX COLLECTION RESPONSIBILITY ACT OF 2007
## `0766d605aa53109f514cbb165b67ba14`
`Mr. ROTHMAN — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. ROTHMAN. I thank the gentleman from North Dakota for all his 
wonderful work on this. I want to thank Mr. Van Hollen. I want to thank 
my chairman on the appropriations subcommittee, Mr. Serrano, and so 
many people who were so outraged at this private collection of taxpayer 
money that is owed to the IRS.

Mr. Speaker, here's the problem. About $300 billion is owed to the 
American taxpayers by those income earners who refuse to pay their 
taxes. They admit they owe the money, but they refuse to pay. That is 
about $300 billion. That is the problem.

Now, what is the solution to the problem? Well, the Republicans here 
say, let's privatize this, give it to private people, private companies 
who will make a profit on collecting these tax moneys, and they will 
collect about $4 for every $1 we spend on them. They will collect $4. 
The other solution is to hire more IRS agents, and for every $1 we 
invest in them, we will get $20. Not the $4 that goes to the private 
debt collectors that they produce, but $20. We will collect five times 
more.

So why would we give away the taxpayers' money by letting private 
debt collectors collect our debts, just so we can collect five times 
less? They say, ''Well, we don't want to support big government.'' 
Well, do they want to waste all those tens or hundreds of billions of 
dollars by giving it to private debt collectors to collect at five 
times less effectiveness? It makes no sense. But this is nothing new.

Mr. Speaker, they wanted to privatize Social Security. They 
privatized the prescription drug program for seniors. They wanted to 
privatize the collection of our mail. They wanted to privatize, and 
they did, security contracting in Iraq, There is Halliburton, 
Blackwater. And they did so at Walter Reed Army Hospital.

So this ideology of the Republican Party and this President that we 
need to privatize everything doesn't make sense, it wastes taxpayer 
dollars, and in fact is an opportunity for a very select few in our 
society to profit at the expense of everybody else. Not only is it un-
American, it is wasteful, it is wrong.

Mr. Speaker, we can do better with this solution. That is why I have 
been fighting for this for years, and I am so proud to support H.R. 
3056. If they say the choice is do nothing or something, do it the 
right way and pass H.R. 3056.