---
---

# STIMULUS PACKAGE
## `0769b17f0e81a55d5409e967761a2d76`
`Mr. MARTINEZ — 12 February 2009`

---


Mr. MARTINEZ. Madam President, I wish to speak on the pending matter, 
which is the so-called stimulus plan, with great concern about where we 
are. As we hear, the plan has been agreed to and the package is being 
put together; however, we have yet to see it. So I am going to make 
some assumptions about the things I hear that may or may not be 
included in it.

It appears we have some clear idea of some things that definitely 
won't be a part of this package. The fact is that as we approach this 
problem--and this is a serious problem for our Nation--the President 
talked about a timely, targeted, and temporary spending package. The 
President talked about it being timely because we needed to get the 
money out the door now so that it would get into the mainstream of 
commerce, so that it could get into the economy so that we could avoid 
a deep and long-lasting recession. It also needed to be targeted 
because it made no sense to do those things that would spend money but 
not create jobs, not create economic activity; the types of tax cuts 
that are geared toward creating more jobs in the marketplace, not 
simply to give money to people that may or may not ultimately be spent. 
It needed to be temporary because we all know that Government spending 
in excess during a time of a recovery, when the Government should not 
be overspending, should not be overheating the economy, could lead to a 
slowdown of the recovery because it would increase inflation.

So that is why, when the President made those comments, I was 
excited. I was positive. I was very positive in thinking this is 
exactly what our country needed at this point in time. However, we have 
found that as this has evolved through the Halls of Congress, that is 
not what we are getting. We are getting an unfocused spending plan 
which spends money on things that are far afield from shovel ready, 
ready-to-get-out-the-door types of projects, but which is really an 
unfocused spending measure that, in my view and in the view of many 
others, spends too much at a time when we can hardly afford to be 
overspending needlessly, but it also does not spend on that which is 
designed to create the jobs America desperately needs today.

In my view, there are ways we could have crafted a package. I made a 
proposal because I do believe that to simply oppose what the President 
proposes and what the majority of this body and across the hall have 
put together is--it is not enough to just say no, don't do it. We have 
a responsibility to be responsible and offer alternatives, to offer a 
proposal, because at this point in time we know we are in deep and 
serious economic times. So the key to this is oppose but propose.

The fact is that some of us did attempt mightily to see if we could 
not come to a bipartisan compromise, a spending package that would have 
spent about $650 billion--a very big package of spending. But the 
spending would have been focused on what I believe would have gotten 
out the door quickly. We also know it would have been good to spend on 
things that we needed to spend the money on anyway. In fact, military 
reset, the resetting of equipment that has been damaged or lost in the 
long struggles in Iraq and Afghanistan would have been a great way for 
us to be spending it--those things that we have to spend money on 
anyway but at the same time be doing so now in a manner that gets it 
out the door in a hurry.


We have the infrastructure in place for military purchases of 
equipment. That would have helped. We could have also done more in the 
infrastructure field. I think this plan is not big enough as it relates 
to the building of highways and bridges. The fact is that the Presiding 
Officer well knows the need for bridges. In Minnesota, there is a 
tremendous need for infrastructure. I wanted to see more bridges. 
Across this Nation, we have bridges that are failing and need to be 
rebuilt, and more highways and bridges and infrastructure in that sense 
would have been the right way to approach it.

Obviously, a part of the package should also be tax cuts geared to 
job creation. There is a difference between giving money to the people 
who would use it to pay down debt or hoard and hold it because they are 
fearful of what is coming in the economy. I believe in more focused tax 
cuts, such as payroll deduction or the corporate tax rate being 
reduced, which ultimately is America's small businesses that will put 
America back to work. Giving those small businesses a tax break would 
have encouraged them to get people back on the rolls of the employed.

My largest disappointment of all is that this plan fails to address 
the problem that got us into this mess in the first place. Why did the 
President and my Governor appear in Fort Myers a couple of days ago? 
Because that is the foreclosure capital of America, and that is where 
more houses are being foreclosed than anyplace else in Florida. I was 
speaking with a group of government officials from Charlotte County, a 
little north of Fort Myers, where there is 11 percent unemployment and 
a terrible problem with foreclosures. They said: Please do something 
about foreclosures. If we can stop houses from being foreclosed, we can 
do two very important things. We can keep a family in their home and 
keep that family whole; we can keep that street from having a 
foreclosed house, and we


keep that community from yet declining further and further in the 
prices of homes.

In addition, we also do something else; we sustain home values in a 
way that will help yet another foreclosure from occurring as the 
declining spiral of housing prices continues to go downhill.

The second one I would have loved to have seen in this package--and I 
am disappointed to know it is not in there--is the proposal by Senator 
Isakson, which is to give a $15,000 tax credit to anybody who purchases 
a home--not just first-time home buyers but anybody. We know one of the 
great problems in the housing market today is that there is an enormous 
inventory of unsold homes, many the result of foreclosures. If we 
encourage potential home buyers by giving them a significant tax break, 
they would get into the marketplace and make the decision to buy, and 
we could begin then to stave off this continuing cycle of declining 
home prices, stalled sales, and more foreclosures.

I know when the President went to Fort Myers, he went there because 
there is a foreclosure problem. If there wasn't a foreclosure problem 
in Fort Myers, there would not be double digit inflation in Lee County 
and Charlotte County. I know my Governor wishes to see this package 
passed. I don't know that my Governor understands all of the details in 
the package. There will be nothing here to help with Florida's housing 
economy, which is the No. 1 problem we have today. Until we address the 
housing problem, we are not going to bring Florida back to economic 
health.

There is not enough largess that can come to Florida from the Federal 
Government to fill the coffers of the State's needs. We need for 
Florida's economy to get back on its feet. We need tax cuts so that the 
taxpayers have more money to spend, and we need to work on the housing 
problem. We need to work on the overall economy of the country so that 
tourism comes back to our State. All of these things working in unison 
will bring America back to economic health.

This package, unfortunately, misses the mark. One of the great 
dangers in it is that at the cost of almost just a hair under $800 
billion, there are not enough additional hundreds of billions that we 
can safely spend. We have to get it right, because some of us in the 
Banking Committee this week heard from the Secretary of the Treasury, 
who told us to get ready, another almost $2 trillion more is going to 
be asked of you for the financial institutions. At the end of the day, 
this is very costly. At some point, continued Government spending isn't 
going to cut it. So that is why it is so important that this package be 
gotten right.

I hate to oppose this package, because I would have loved for us to 
have come up with something that was a truly bipartisan package--not 
just a way of getting three votes but a way of, in fact, working 
together and getting the best thinking of both sides and working on 
something that was bipartisan. Not working in that fashion has caused 
some of us to oppose this package. I hate doing that. I wanted to work 
with President Obama. I wish our new President well, and I hope the 
package succeeds and has the desired effect. In my conscience, I cannot 
support it because I don't feel it will do what this economy currently 
needs or that it will do what in fact all of us need to work together 
toward doing, and that is getting our country back on the road to 
recovery.

With great regret, I will not be able to support this package. I look 
forward to seeing the final outcome because we have not all read the 
bill yet. I will analyze it again to see if the component parts are 
there that will allow me to support it. But it appears clear to me, in 
the information we have, that that in fact will not be the case. I am 
increasingly disappointed, but at the same time my hope is that it will 
succeed because, at this moment, at this juncture in history, we need 
for our country to be successful, so that Americans can get back to 
work and our Nation can get back to prosperity.

I yield the floor.