# None
## `07760065342e4b0cc040862918ed07e9`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Speaker, last week Lieutenant General Ricardo 
Sanchez, who led our forces in Iraq when the vast majority of the 
American public had yet to turn against the war, emphatically agreed 
with those of us who criticized the invasion and occupation from the 
start. In calling the situation a ''nightmare,'' Lieutenant General 
Sanchez referred to the ''unfortunate display of incompetent strategic 
leadership.''

But from what I have seen from my seat on the Oversight and 
Government Reform Committee, with all due respect to the Lieutenant 
General, he is wrong. The administration isn't failing to implement the 
strategic leadership needed to bring peace to the region and protect 
our young men and women risking their lives in Iraq; they are refusing.

David Walker, U.S. Comptroller General, said that widespread 
corruption is robbing Iraq of the resources to develop the government 
and is funding the very insurgency we are fighting. Rather than working 
to end or mend this catastrophe, the State Department has instructed 
its officials not to cooperate. Instead of using the ''Stabilizing and 
Rebuilding Iraq'' report to rectify the problem, they classified it 
retroactively, giving the impression that honest information is seen by 
this administration as politically embarrassing rather than 
constructive.

Mr. Speaker, regardless of how they see it, they owe it to the 
American people not to ignore factors that endanger our soldiers, 
jeopardize Iraqi stability, and squander upwards of $18 billion due to 
corruption. In today's terms, that is 2/1/2/ years of health care for 4 
million children through SCHIP. But this isn't merely a case of 
ignoring crucial information. Our government is actually covering up 
the rampant corruption, which Inspector General Bowen has referred to 
as ''a second insurgency.''

With article I of the Constitution, our Nation's Founders protected 
us against this abuse by calling for a representative government with 
all legislative powers vested in the hands of a Congress. By defying 
that mandate, the Bush administration is defying the American people. 
So I call on the President to return to those Constitutional principles 
by dropping the veil of secrecy and restoring the open, honest 
government envisioned by the Framers, demanded by the people, and 
depended upon by our soldiers.

Mr. Speaker, saying ''supporting the troops'' is one thing, but 
following through with actions is something entirely different. That 
means admitting our deficiencies so that we can correct them. For the 
3,820 warriors we lost in Iraq, and for the more than 165,000 serving 
there today on the ground, I urge my colleagues to support H. Res. 734, 
and call on the administration to level with us and support our troops 
abroad.