---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `0797343f31a2b599b5cd0c07c4f71553`
`Mr. SKELTON — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I have, and I offer as part of the Record, Mr. Speaker, a letter I 
just received dated July 12 from Lee H. Hamilton from the Woodrow 
Wilson International Center of Scholars, who is the national president 
thereof. And I will


read just part of it and not take any more time. But it says, ''Dear 
Ike, thank you for sharing H.R. 2956 on responsible redeployment from 
Iraq. The legislation outlines the right change in mission for U.S. 
forces in Iraq, and redeployment within a responsible time frame. It 
effectively outlines the functions of the residual force that would 
remain in Iraq after redeployment, and makes an important contribution 
by focusing on the need for an accounting of U.S. interests in both 
Iraq and the wider region.''

I offer this letter at this time.




















Woodrow Wilson International























Center for Scholars,



















Washington, DC, July 12, 2007.


 Congressman Ike Skelton,


 Committee on Armed Services,


 House of Representatives, Washington, DC.



 Dear Ike: Thank you for sharing HR 2956 on responsible 


 redeployment from Iraq. The legislation outlines the right 


 change in mission for U.S. forces in Iraq, and redeployment 


 within a responsible timeframe. It effectively outlines the 


 functions of the residual force that would remain in Iraq 


 after redeployment, and makes an important contribution by 


 focusing on the need for an accounting of U.S. interests in 


 both Iraq and the wider region.



 Beyond what is outlined in the bill, much needs to be done 


 in Iraq. The training of Iraqi Security Forces must be 


 intensified. An aggressive diplomatic offensive is urgently 


 needed to press for national reconciliation in Iraq, and to 


 advance stability in the region. And some measure of 


 consensus needs to be reached in the country--and between the 


 President and Congress--so that we can move forward with 


 unity of effort.



 The American people want a responsible transition for U.S. 


 forces out of Iraq. This resolution provides that transition. 


 It is not perfect, but it moves our national debate forward.



 With best wishes,





 Sincerely,

























Lee H. Hamilton.


At this time, Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to my friend and 
colleague, the gentleman from South Carolina who is our distinguished 
majority whip, Mr. Clyburn.