---
---

# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `07b78d5af01582fe9497e65ab52687ba`
`Mr. HATCH — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I wish to take this opportunity to 
explain why I will vote against S. Res. 107.

First, I must applaud Senator Murray for what I believe was the 
overall premise of her amendment, to show the entire Congress's resolve 
in supporting our troops.

I fully agree with the portion of the amendment that reaffirms the 
Senate's commitment to providing the ''necessary funds for training, 
equipment, and other support for troops in the field, as such actions 
will ensure their safety and effectiveness in preparing for and 
carrying out their assigned duties.''

This is a policy to which I have dedicated my entire Senate career.

However, as a lawyer, I believe that it is also my duty to evaluate 
and work toward ensuring that all legislation which the Senate passes 
is strictly within the limits of our constitutional powers. As the 
preamble states, ''Under the Constitution, the President and Congress 
have shared responsibilities for decisions on the use of the Armed 
Forces of the United States, including their mission, and for 
supporting the Armed Forces, especially during wartime.''

Unfortunately, S. Res. 107 does not meet that test. While at first 
glance the passage I just cited may seem innocuous, the phrase ''shared 
responsibilities'' raises important separation of powers questions.

As we all know, the Constitution does not speak of shared powers, it 
speaks of the different branches of government having separate and 
distinct powers--a point which is at the core of the debate on our 
nation's policies toward Iraq.

Under article II, section 2 of the Constitution, the President is the 
''Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States.'' 
However, Congress's role is limited in article I, section 8 which, in 
part, reads ''. . . The Congress shall have power to . . . provide for 
the common defense and general welfare of the United States. . . To 
declare war . . . to raise and support armies . . . to provide and 
maintain a navy . . . to make rules for the government and regulation 
of the land and naval forces; . . . to provide for calling forth the 
militia to execute the laws of the union, suppress insurrections and 
repel invasions . . . to provide for organizing, arming, and 
disciplining, the militia, and for governing such part of them as may 
be employed in the service of the United States . . .''

These are very different powers; they are not shared. The 
Constitution provides for only one Commander in Chief. Our troops are 
facing enough challenges in the weeks and months ahead--they do not 
need to worry if there will be 435 commanders in chief.

It is important that we remember this point now more then ever. And 
so, it is my analysis that the ''shared powers'' reference in S. Res. 
107 clearly raises constitutional concerns, and that is why I voted 
against S. Res. 107.

Madam President, I yield the floor.