# CELEBRATING FATHER'S DAY
## `07b8bc7c2afd9d8f2d0fa9b790365a34`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 June 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it gives me great pleasure to 
be able to congratulate and to wish a happy Father's Day to all of the 
fathers across America. In particular, I wish a very special and very 
respectful Father's Day to all of those serving on the front lines of 
Iraq and Afghanistan, all of our veterans, all of them loved dearly for 
their service, and as well the service and love they give their 
families.

I want to pay special tribute to those fathers who are no longer with 
us, and might I mention Ezra C. Jackson, my father, my dad, who will 
always be someone in my heart as someone willing to stand by his 
children and be able to uplift his children.

Again this is a commemorative holiday where we simply say ''thank 
you.'' Fathers are the guiding force, fathers bring strength, both in 
religion, both in character, and in support of their families. We are a 
nation of families, moms and dads and grandmothers and grandfathers. 
And for all of those who have stood in as fathers, we wish you a very 
happy Father's Day as well.

This is a special day, and as I close, let me simply say, we have a 
weekend of Father's Day. And in Texas, we commemorate Juneteenth. It is 
a special weekend of celebrations, remembering the struggle of those 
who were not yet freed as slaves, and remembering the service and the 
love that our fathers give in America.

We are united as families, and fathers remain very dear in our 
hearts. Happy Father's Day.
