---
---

# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `07d30696709a58f6a830006d9eb2dd1f`
`Mr. BYRD — 1 February 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, the verdict is in on the President's plan to 
send more American troops into Iraq: 68 percent of the American people 
are opposed to it; 62 percent of Active-Duty military officers are 
opposed to it. Top military leaders have voiced skepticism about 
whether an increase in troops will succeed in suppressing the sectarian 
violence that has consumed Iraq. The evidence is in. The voice of the 
people, the American people--voix populaire--is clear. It is time to 
turn around. Unfortunately, this administration seems to have no 
intention of heeding that call from the people.

Last week, the Vice President talked about the ''enormous successes'' 
that have been accomplished in Iraq. Enormous successes? I ask, 
enormous successes? The Vice President's definition of ''enormous 
success'' is, apparently, different from mine.

The Vice President said that talk of failures and blunders in Iraq 
was just hogwash--his word, ''hogwash''--and the Vice President 
asserted that whatever Congress votes on in relation to Iraq, ''it 
won't stop us.'' Hear me now. Hear me. This is the Vice President 
talking. He asserted that whatever Congress votes on in relation to 
Iraq, ''it won't stop us.''

Now, listen to me, you people out there in the hills, in the valleys, 
across the mountain ranges, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, that is a 
slap in the face to you. Our constituents voted for change in the last 
election. They asked their elected representatives--us--to chart a new 
course in Iraq. This administration continues to disregard the will of 
the American people, it continues to disregard the people of the 
Nation, the authority of the Constitution. The administration believes 
it can continue to ignore the message that is coming--yes--from the 
American people, loudly and clearly: Bring our sons and daughters home.


That is why the bipartisan resolutions we will be debating are so 
important. That is why they are so important. We have a duty as the 
elected representatives of the people of the United States to be their 
voices and to speak the truth. And the truth is that sending more 
American troops into Iraq would be a continuation of the mistakes that 
brought us there in the first place. The truth is that many of us in 
both parties deeply, deeply disagree with the President's decision to 
increase our commitment in Iraq rather than to decrease it. The truth 
is that the American people are fed up with having our--our--soldiers 
caught in the crossfire of a civil war.

It is important to send that message from the people to the President 
of the United States. But it is not enough. The American people are 
asking us to send a message, but they are also asking us for answers. 
What is our strategy? What is our strategy in Iraq? I am not a Johnny-
come-lately on this question. I was against sending American troops 
into Iraq in the first place. I said so, and I voted so.

So what is our strategy in Iraq? Why are we there? When can our sons 
and daughters and grandchildren come home? When can our sons and 
daughters come home? This President has had almost 4 years to 
articulate answers to those questions. Unfortunately, he has failed at 
every opportunity. And so it falls to us--us, you Senators and me, and 
Members of the other body--to find a way forward out of the mess he has 
created. That is why I will be introducing, within the coming days, a 
resolution that is a new approach to the war, a resolution that is


fully supportive of our troops, while laying out clear--clear; as clear 
as the noonday Sun in a cloudless sky--benchmarks for concluding U.S. 
military engagement in Iraq.

This administration has claimed that debating the President's plan 
will undermine the troops. Can you believe that? Debating--debating--
debating the President's plan will undermine the troops? Hogwash--h-o-
g-w-a-s-h--hogwash. Only 38 percent of the Active-Duty U.S. military 
forces support sending more troops into Iraq. To imply that the 
American people and the American troops are somehow incapable of 
hearing and participating in debate about this war is utterly 
ridiculous--ridiculous--hogwash.

War--hear me now--war and the escalation of war is not something to 
be decided in some backroom corridor far from the madding crowd, far 
from the light of day. We have a duty--yes, a duty--and a 
responsibility to deliberate, to discuss, and to offer advice. That is 
the way democracy works, and that is the system established by our 
Founding Fathers. You better believe it.

Some have claimed that by putting forward these resolutions, we are 
only offering criticism--well, what is wrong with that in the 
beginning--and, they say, not alternatives. But criticism is only the 
first step. That is all right. Criticism is only the first step. It is 
critical to send a consensus message to this President that he is 
moving us in the wrong direction. The next step is to show the 
President the right direction. That is why my resolution is so 
important and why we should be allowed to debate it and to vote on it 
quickly. We must show the President the way forward. We must send a 
light in a binding resolution that cannot be ignored.

The American people want a fundamental change in the administration's 
policies toward Iraq. The American people elected Congress--you, you, 
you, and me--to make those changes. We must demonstrate that the 
Congress can take and is prepared to take action to compel the 
President to create a strategy that is not simply more of the same.

The resolution I will be introducing will do exactly that. You may 
not agree with it. The resolution will do exactly that. This resolution 
reflects the will of the American people that the war in Iraq must be 
brought to a close in a responsible way. It will establish provisions 
to bring to a close the U.S. military engagement in Iraq based not upon 
dates but based upon conditions.

It will restore to Congress--Congress; that is us, the people's 
elected representatives in the House of Representatives and the U.S. 
Senate--it will restore to Congress its constitutional war-making power 
by adding conditions that would terminate the original 2002 use of 
force resolution. I was against that resolution. I spoke against it. I 
voted against it. I was against it. I am against it. I was right. I am 
right. And there are others who voted with me--yes, the people's voice.

Let me say that again. It will restore to Congress--the House and 
Senate of the United States--it will restore to Congress its 
constitutional war-making power. Do you believe me? I have it right 
here. I hold in my hand a copy of the U.S. Constitution. It 
will restore to Congress its constitutional war-making power by adding 
conditions that would terminate the original 2002 use of force 
resolution. Hallelujah. Amen. I was against that to start with. Not 
everybody agreed with me, which was their right. But this would 
restore--where it was and ought to have been in the first place--to 
Congress its constitutional war-making power by adding conditions that 
would terminate the original 2002 use of force resolution. I was 
against it. But that resolution was enacted, and it is still the law of 
the land. It is still the law of the land and will be the law of the 
land unless and until the Congress acts to terminate it.


The conditions can be summarized as follows: We have achieved our 
objective. We are no longer needed--or we are no longer wanted in Iraq. 
These are not irresponsible conditions that would prolong our 
involvement in Iraq, nor do they require a chaotic or dangerous 
withdrawal of our troops. These are reasonable conditions that, through 
the exercise of the article I, section 8 powers granted to the 
Congress, set limits on the Iraq war resolution, which currently has no 
sunset provision. Hear me. It has no sunset provision. It goes on and 
on and on--like Tennyson's brook--forever, on and on and on. Do we want 
that? That war resolution will continue to be in effect in perpetuity. 
Do you know what that means? Till Kingdom comes; in perpetuity, from 
now on, as far as the human eye can see and beyond that. That war 
resolution will continue to be in effect in perpetuity if the Congress 
does not act. And if Congress does not act, that is an abdication of 
the responsibility of the Congress--that is an abdication of the 
responsibility of the Congress--to be a steward, a good steward, of its 
constitutional power to declare war.

Additionally, as the bipartisan Iraq Study Group concluded, a clear 
message must be sent to the Iraqi Government that the U.S. commitment 
to the war in Iraq is not open-ended. The Byrd resolution will point 
the way toward concluding that commitment.

No Senator must set aside his or her views of the war in order to 
support the Byrd resolution. Those who support a rapid redeployment of 
our troops must realize that the Congress must first reassert the 
powers vested in this body by article I of the Constitution. Those who 
have supported the war but are now calling for benchmarks for progress 
by the Iraqi Government should understand that there can be no clearer 
call for benchmarks for progress than by writing into the law of the 
land the conditions under which our presence in Iraq will end.

My approach is one that I believe should have wide bipartisan 
support. At the appropriate time, I will make the necessary motions to 
place my resolution, the Byrd resolution, directly onto the calendar, 
and I urge that the Senate schedule a debate on this proposal soon 
after this body completes action on the nonbinding resolutions. 
Although the President believes he can act without the support of the 
people, the Congress must not submit to such hubris. The work of the 
Congress must be the work of the people, and there is no more important 
issue--hear me, there is no more important issue--before our country 
today than finding a way out of the quagmire in Iraq.

Madam President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a 
quorum.