---
---

# TAXPAYER ASSISTANCE AND SIMPLIFICATION ACT OF 2008
## `07e069a50511157375beb0b06e6b11a1`
`Mr. ROTHMAN — 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. ROTHMAN. I thank the chairman for the time.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5719, the 
Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act of 2008.

Let me tell my colleagues that this bill simply closes a lot of 
loopholes that were created when my Republican friends controlled this 
Congress in the majority years ago and it also addresses some of the 
disastrous Bush administration policies that were adopted by my friends 
the Republicans when they were in the majority. But they're no longer 
in the majority this year.

Let me tell you what this is all about. My Republican friends and the 
Bush administration love to privatize. They wanted to privatize Social 
Security. Remember that? They wanted to privatize prescription drugs, 
and they got away with it, and that's why it's so expensive and 
convoluted. They wanted to privatize health care at Walter Reed 
Hospital, and you know the disasters that happened there. Trying to 
privatize the delivery of the United States mail; privatize security in 
Iraq by letting private contractors handle these things for the U.S. 
Army. Blackwater and Halliburton, sound familiar?

Well, one of the things that this bill that we're passing today in 
the House will do will be to eliminate one of the disastrous Bush and 
Republican policies that they inserted in a 2004 bill. That policy was 
where they slashed the number of IRS tax collectors, and then they 
said, oh, my gosh, we can't collect enough taxes; so you know what 
we'll do? We'll privatize the collection of taxes. This was after they 
removed the number of IRS tax collectors. They said we'll hire private 
folks to collect taxes, but we'll pay them eight times more than it 
would cost a Federal Government employee.