---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `07e3476f7b1509b1c276c608540e7fb3`
`Mr. ALLARD — 12 September 2008`

---


Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, I am rising to speak in regard to the 
Defense authorization bill, which is now being considered on the floor 
of the Senate. I am delighted that we are moving forward with this 
piece of legislation. It is something that gets passed every year. It 
is important that we get this kind of legislation passed because, with 
the challenges the country is facing, we need to deal with some very 
vital issues in the defense of this country and also take care of the 
families and the men and women in the armed services.

I want to mention a few things about a couple of amendments I plan on 
introducing at some point in time for consideration by the Senate. One 
of them has to do with Fort Carson, which is located in Colorado 
Springs, CO. It is an attractive place, if you are in the Army, to be 
assigned. It is one of the bases where we are looking at some expansion 
possibilities.

One of the key points with the new personnel we are bringing is that 
they need more training space. So I have been working with the Colorado 
Springs community and the commander at Fort Carson, as well as the 
Army, to facilitate this so it can move forward and everybody would be 
comfortable with what is being done. Earlier in our discussions, when I 
visited with the commander, he assured me that in the process of 
acquiring property he would protect private property rights. That is 
extremely important to the people of Colorado, particularly in the 
rural areas. This expanded training area is in a very rural area in 
southern Colorado. With the assurance that they would protect private 
property rights, I began to say that now you need to talk to the 
members of the communities and elected officials and see if you cannot 
work out some agreement. The Army has put forth considerable efforts up 
to this particular point in time. I have been asked to begin to 
propound an amendment that would support the Army's position on 
protecting property rights.

Last year, as part of the fiscal year 2008 Defense Authorization Act, 
I included language that would require the Army to submit to Congress 
an outline of their justification for the expansion of the Pinon Canyon 
maneuver site. I was pleased with the Army's findings and am convinced 
there is a critical need for additional training space for the new 
troops that are set to arrive at Fort Carson in the near future.

Although the Army identified a need of 418,577 acres, they have 
decided that just over 100,000 acres will be adequate to meet their 
immediate needs. These 100,000 acres will still provide the necessary 
space for enhanced training but will have less of an impact on the 
surrounding community.

In reading the Army's report, I believe they have shown their 
willingness to work with the community on a variety of issues: land, 
cultural resources, and historic preservation concerns in the area. For 
example, Otero County, one of the neighboring counties to Pinon Canyon, 
has asked that the footprint of the expansion not invade the Comanche 
National Grassland, and the Army's new plan leaves that area untouched. 
Additional community leaders suggested that the expansion site not 
cross Interstate 350, which the Army has also agreed to.

I also want to draw attention to the economic impact data that 
signals significant increases in revenue for the surrounding area. The 
expansion would generate more than 100 full-time civilian and 
contractor positions, equalling as much as $5 million in payroll. These 
would be civilian jobs and would yield increased property and tax sale 
revenue for the area.

Now, that is important, because if you have Federal facilities in 
your county, the Federal Government doesn't pay taxes. They make 
payments in lieu of taxes. Many times, the complaints we have from 
local governments in Colorado say it doesn't measure up to the lost 
revenue if that had been a facility in the private sector. This is an 
important part of that, so this part of Colorado wants and needs 
economic development. They need ways to be able to expand their 
property tax base so they can support their schools and support their 
community infrastructure in that area and in the country. So this is a 
very important provision, as far as the elected officials in that 
area. Most importantly, the Army has again reiterated their commitment 
to acquire the land from willing sellers only.


In spite of the Army's continued commitment to acquire the land for 
expansion only from willing sellers, there is still apprehension among 
the landowners, and I want to help ease that concern. That is why I 
will be proposing later on this amendment to the Defense authorization 
bill. It is an amendment which will take the possibility of eminent 
domain completely off the table.

As I said time and again, we must remember that property rights go 
both ways. Landowners should have the right to keep or sell their land 
if they so choose. If there are willing sellers in the area of the 
proposed expansion, then I see a very win-win solution.

Again, property owners don't want to have the Army come in and begin 
to condemn their property. Many of the farmers and ranchers have 
property in their families that date clear back to the Mexican land 
grant era in Colorado. They are very established in those areas and 
have no desire to move and want to be a part of the community and do 
not want to be forced out of the area.



I have said time and again, we must be very sensitive about property 
rights. The Army now has issued this comprehensive plan which shows the 
critical need for expansion. The Army has completed everything Congress 
has asked of them in the previous legislation. They continue to work 
with community leaders and landowners to find a win-win situation.

Fort Carson is growing fast and will soon have an additional brigade 
combat team. The United States has a responsibility to ensure our 
service men and women who have so courageously chosen to serve this 
great country receive the best training possible. I believe this 
expansion will help them do so.

I hope this amendment I will be offering will ease the concerns of 
our ranchers in the area, and we can soon move forward with a decision 
from the Army and from the locally elected officials and ranchers 
involved in the area.















 Amendment No. 5298


Mr. President, another amendment I have been working on is an 
amendment to bring attention to the fact that our military 
servicemembers are faced with an ineffective process and unnecessary 
hurdles when attempting to exercise their right to vote.

Military absentee voting gained attention in the 2000 Presidential 
election. The Government Accountability Office reported that military 
ballots during the 2000 election were disqualified five times as often 
as civilian ballots. Despite numerous attempts by the Congress, our 
military continued to face voting problems in the 2002, 2004, and 2006 
elections.

In 2006, Active-Duty military voted at a rate of 42 percent lower 
than the general population. It reported 47 percent of servicemembers 
who wanted to vote never got the chance to do so. This amounts to over 
110,000 of our Nation's bravest and most patriotic men and women who 
were denied the right to vote.

Of those who were able to cast a vote, only 20 percent of them were 
even counted. This is simply unacceptable. These men and women risk 
their lives for democracy and freedom and voting rights all over the 
world. As we did over 60 years ago during World War II, the voting 
process still depends on a single soldier in the field reading a large 
number of pages in a guide--I am told up to 466--and being informed on 
how each individual soldier is to vote under specific precinct 
guidelines. If a soldier is able to complete this step in the process, 
the mail system must still track down a moving target in order to get 
the ballot to a soldier who has the intention of voting. Warfighting 
and technology have come a long way since World War II, and in my view 
it is unconscionable that our voting capabilities have failed to keep 
up for our men and women in the military.

In recent years, there have been several voting ballot programs that 
would allow the soldier to request, receive, download, and print their 
absentee ballots no matter where they are deployed. We now have the 
capability to use electronic signatures. These are effective programs 
and would remove most, if not all, major hurdles facing our men and 
women in uniform who would like to exercise their right to vote. 
Despite these attempted advancements, none have been universally put 
into place. Our military men and women remain disenfranchised at the 
polling place.

It is time the United States ensures their right to vote. We have 
deployed these men and women to all corners of the world. We have sent 
them to Iraq and Afghanistan to fight for our security and freedom. 
They help to ensure the rights of others to have a voice in their 
Government. As we approach November and arguably the most monumental 
election of our time, I call on our colleagues to ensure that our men 
and women in uniform are given the opportunity to have their votes 
heard.

I will be offering an amendment at some point to the Defense 
authorization bill, and the amendment will basically do two things: 
First, it will eliminate the notary requirement on both the Federal 
postcard application to request absentee ballots, as well as the notary 
requirement on voted ballots. This is unnecessary as civilians in most 
States are not required to even do this.

Second, this amendment will permit electronic submission of the 
Federal postcard application. The Federal postcard application is an 
application needed to request an absentee ballot. By allowing 
electronic submission of this document, it will not just allow greater 
accessibility in a timely manner but will also allow servicemembers to 
request their absentee ballots closer to the election date, hopefully 
granting them additional time to know where they may be stationed in 
November.

Additionally, this amendment expresses the sense of Congress to 
encourage the States to permit members of the Armed Forces to apply 
for, receive, and submit absentee ballots for elections for Federal 
office by electronic means and to encourage the Department of Defense 
to implement and maintain programs that permit the secure submittal by 
members of the Armed Forces of absentee ballots for election for 
Federal office by electronic means.

It is simply time for Congress to ensure our military men and women 
the accessibility and right to vote, particularly at a time when we 
have the technology to provide the reliability and integrity of the 
system. I call on my colleagues to support me in this amendment.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
letters from the Colorado Secretary of State, the American Legion, Vets 
for Freedom, and the National Vietnam & Gulf War Veterans Coalition.