---
---

# IRAQ
## `07e59883d2ba43da846cd582f5668d45`
`Ms. WATERS — 17 September 2007`

---


Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I'd like to thank Congresswoman Stephanie 
Tubbs Jones for the leadership that she's providing this evening, 
having taken out the time on the floor to have the members of the 
Congressional Black Caucus engage this body on this issue of the war in 
Iraq. I thank you for your leadership, and I'm proud to work with you 
to help bring our Congress to the conclusion that we must get out of 
Iraq.

Last week, President Bush and his White House propaganda machine made 
another attempt at misleading the Nation. Yet again, unsubstantiated 
anecdotal claims of progress were used to support a continued 
occupation of Iraq.

However, the President's claims of progress ran contrary to multiple 
independent reports recently published, including, from the Government 
Accountability Office, General Jones, and the National Intelligence 
Estimate. These reports painted a bleak picture of Iraq: continued high 
levels of violence, a dysfunctional Iraqi government, and sectarian 
influence that continue to plague the Iraqi security forces.

President Bush's vision of an enduring relationship with Iraq amounts 
to an endless and unlimited military occupation. Instead of a 
significant change of policy, the President has reaffirmed his 
commitment to a dangerous continuation of a failed policy in Iraq.

Deepening sectarian divisions in Iraq make the American military 
presence increasingly obsolete. In fact, our presence may actually be 
making the situation worse as Iraqi political leaders hide behind our 
troops and refuse to make the necessary compromises.

Meanwhile, we continue to train and equip Iraqi security forces and 
so-called volunteer Sunni sectarian militias across Iraq. Experts 
suggest that we're merely training different sides of a violent civil 
war, and losing track of over 190,000 weapons meant for the security 
forces is surely only adding fuel to the fires raging in Iraq. That is 
why my colleagues and I recently introduced H.R. 3134, the Responsible 
Security in Iraq Act. This legislation will halt the dangerous practice 
of training and equipping of Iraqi security forces, at least until the 
Iraqi Government matures.

At the cost of precious American lives, the President seeks only to 
disguise the fact that he has no exit strategy for Iraq. It becomes 
increasingly clear that George Bush seeks only to protect his own 
legacy and saddle the next President with the mess he's created in the 
Middle East.

Let us not forget that, in addition to almost 3,800 troops who have 
died, 800 of those troops who have died in Iraq have died since the 
surge was announced in January, including 16 troops since General 
Petraeus came to Congress to testify just last week.

I know that the media, many in the media have blamed the wonderful, 
wonderful support group of the Democratic Caucus and people who want to 
get us out of Iraq for attacking General Petraeus. But I join with 
them, not in an attack on General Petraeus, but in telling the truth 
about what has been happening.

Moveon.org need not be ashamed of its advocacy. They need not be a 
shame of its ads. They are telling the truth, and we need to speak 
truth to power on this issue.

President Bush sought to appease those who oppose the war by 
announcing that 5,700 troops will be coming home this year, and another 
few brigades will possibly return by summer of next year. But these 
reductions were scheduled to occur with or without Bush's consent. 
Deployment limits are being reached, and the military has no trained 
and ready troops to replace the ones leaving.

As the New York Times stated, it's like George Bush dropping an 
object and then taking credit for gravity.

Regardless, these planned reductions would merely lower our troop 
levels to 130,000 by summer of 2008. It is absolutely unacceptable that 
our military presence in Iraq by next summer will still be the same as 
pre-surge levels.

I'm delighted for the families of the troops who will be leaving 
Iraq. Many of these troops will be returning from a second, third or 
even fourth deployment. However, without a significant change in 
strategy, the President is


signaling that these troops should not get too comfortable at home. 
President Bush will surely have them deployed back to Iraq as soon as 
possible.

As Chair of the Out of Iraq Caucus, I, along with my colleagues, have 
been advocating for a different direction for years now. In stark 
contrast to the direction of the President, we understand that the only 
acceptable option for Iraq is a fully funded withdrawal of all of our 
troops and military contracts.

The other day, my friend, Congressman John Murtha said, and I quote, 
''Yes, many Iraqis consider us the occupiers. But it is also true that 
Iraq is really occupying us.'' We couldn't be more right. He couldn't 
be more right.

Let's bring our troops home to their families as soon as possible and 
refocus this country's resources on the issues that matter the most to 
the American people. It is time to end this war in Iraq.

And to those who are getting a little bit disgusted with the fact 
that we don't seem to be making as much progress as we should here in 
the Congress of the United States, I would like to encourage them not 
to give up.

I know that it appears that Petraeus and the President organized a 
presentation and tried to win over the hearts of Americans by putting a 
general out there, just as he put Colin Powell out when Colin Powell 
went up to the U.N. and pointed to the buildings where weapons of mass 
destruction were being manufactured. Colin Powell has said since that 
time, it was perhaps the worst thing that he could have done in his 
career. And of course, people respect generals, and they respect 
Petraeus because he has a long history of having made sacrifice and 
having been a good warrior.

But ladies and gentlemen, he's wrong on this one. We don't have to 
back up. We don't have to shy away from this fight. We don't have to 
give in and think somehow we're going to be thought of as unpatriotic. 
Patriotism is to stand up for what is right, what is right for the 
security of this Nation.


We're at greater risk now than we were before we went in to invade 
Iraq. As a matter of fact, this President and this war has unsettled 
the entire Middle East. We know that since we've been there, not only 
have we created a civil war and all of the sectarian violence, we also 
know that we have pulled in to this war Iran, and we also know that we 
are on the verge of pulling in Syria to this war. We also know that 
this entire Middle East is unsettled because of our occupation.

Despite the fact that the President of the United States said we 
would be welcomed with open arms, they want us out of Iraq. They want 
to end the occupation.

Yes, we have some responsibilities there. Yes, we should help to 
rebuild Iraq, but first, we must bring our soldiers home. We must stop 
the carnage. We must stop the killings. We must bring our soldiers 
home.

And I join with Barbara Lee and Lynn Woolsey and members of the 
Congressional Black Caucus who support the idea that we will vote for 
funding to bring the troops home safely and securely. We will not vote 
for funding to continue this war.

We know that the President of the United States has made another 
request in a supplemental. I will not be voting for any funding to 
continue the war. And for those of us who really, really believe in 
what we're saying, for those of us who are committed to the proposition 
that we can end this war, we will not give him another dime to continue 
the war.