---
---

# WAR SUPPLEMENTAL IS BAD POLITICS, BAD POLICY
## `07e7a7eb6d0abc1cafd99439e1445504`
`Mr. CARTER — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. We are sitting here with a concern that goes back 1,000 
years between the Sunnis and the Shiites. That is why people talk about 
civil war.

Now, has anybody read what has been put in the Middle Eastern 
newspapers about if the Americans pull out, and it blows up in Iraq, 
the countries that will come to the aid of these two groups? The 
Iranians have said, we are not going to let Shiites be put down, we 
will come to their aid. The Saudis have said, we are not going to have 
genocide for the Sunnis who are the minority party, we will come to the 
Sunnis' aid.

I think Americans know that if you take Iraq, Iran and Saudi Arabia, 
that is the basic oil production region of the entire Middle East who 
could become involved in a region-wide conflict because of America's 
early pullout, as recommended by Speaker Pelosi. Then


you know how upset folks got about $4-a-gallon gasoline? So what 
happens when over two-thirds of the world's supply is involved in a 
civil war or region-wide war in the Middle East if you don't care about 
doing the right thing? We certainly know people care about having $10-
a-gallon gasoline. It's kind of a sad, tragic thing to argue.

But let's get realistic about this. If we get stability in Iraq where 
there is not going to be this threat of genocide, if we can get there 
by them turning to their government for assistance rather than to 
militia and terrorists, that is our goal. If we get there, we keep a 
stable region, and America is affected by having stability in that 
region.