---
---

# CELEBRATING THE 25TH ANNIVERSARY OF GOODRICH AEROSTRUCTURES IN FOLEY,  ALABAMA
## `0815a7b28de110f952ecfe0681352d38`
`Mr. BONNER — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. BONNER. Madam Speaker, I want to extend my congratulations to 
Goodrich Aerostructures Original Equipment Manufacturer and the Alabama 
Service Center on their 25th anniversary in Foley, Alabama. For a 
quarter of a century the hard working men and women of Goodrich have 
been manufacturing, assembling, maintaining, repairing, and servicing 
aircraft engine components and structures such as nacelles, pylons, fan 
and inlet cowls, and thrust reversers for both military and commercial 
aircraft.

Goodrich Aerostructures, originally known as Rohr Industries, became 
part of the Baldwin County community in 1984. In December 2006, 
Goodrich began an expansion project to increase its size in Foley to 
more than 425,000 square feet. Since 2005, Goodrich Aerostructures has 
become the second largest employer in Foley with more than 800 people 
working at the facility. Most recently, the Aerostructures team in 
Foley was recognized by General Electric for delivering its 500th CF34-
10 nacelle; they have also received production contracts to supply the 
pylons and nacelle systems for the Air Force C-5 Galaxy strategic 
airlifter as part of the Reliability Enhancement and Re-engining 
Program and, for eight consecutive years, workers at Goodrich in Foley 
have been recognized by the FAA with Aviation Maintenance Technician 
(AMT) awards.

As a good corporate citizen, Goodrich has been a leader in the Foley 
community. Goodrich has partnered with Alabama Industrial Development 
Training to offer training classes with more than 900 graduates. 
Earlier this year, the United Way of Baldwin County recognized Goodrich 
as the top contributing industry in the county. Goodrich is also 
recognized for supporting education, arts, and civic activities in the 
local community such as the Baldwin County Sheriff's Boys Ranch in 
Summerdale, Community Hospice for Baldwin County, and putting together 
and sending care packages to family members and friends of employees 
who are serving our country in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Madam Speaker, I am proud to represent the working families of 
Goodrich Aerostructures in Foley, and I ask my colleagues to join me in 
offering heartfelt congratulations on 25 years of dedication, hard 
work, and leadership in the community. Needless to say, I wish them 
much continued success in the future.

