# CRAIG THOMAS RURAL HOSPITAL AND PROVIDER EQUITY ACT
## `081e65351764e6fe6d210b408c01d352`
`Mr. INHOFE — 14 June 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, the other day I saw something--and I 
should have it with me but I don't now--in the media that was critical 
of GEN Peter Pace, the outgoing Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
When I think of words to describe Peter Pace, the words that come to my 
mind are always loyalty and honor. Those happen to be the words of the 
United States Marine Corps. These are their watch words.

Peter Pace is today, and has always been, a true marine--the first 
marine to serve as both the Vice Chairman and Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff. He is loyal to this country, its people, and to the 
men and women who wear the uniform of its Armed Forces.

He served this country with honor as a rifle platoon leader in 
Vietnam. He has done everything: a marine commander in Somalia, 
commander of U.S. Marine forces in the Atlantic, commander of the U.S. 
Southern Command, and then Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

As Chairman, he has led our military during one of the most critical 
times in history, fighting in wars against terrorists in Afghanistan 
and Iraq, engaged throughout the world providing support and aid to our 
allies and friends.

I have long been, and still am, a real fan of Peter Pace, and I 
cannot think of one military leader I have known in the 21 years I have 
served on the House Armed Services and the Senate Armed Services 
Committees who is a greater American than Peter Pace. Let me just pay 
this tribute to him today as one great marine and one great American.

(The remarks of Mr. Inhofe pertaining to the introduction of S. 1623 
are located in today's Record under ''Statements on Introduced Bills 
and Joint Resolutions.'')