# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `08229ef601436a3c393f9a680aaf12ba`
`Mrs. McCASKILL â€” 26 September 2007`

---


Mrs. McCASKILL. Mr. President, if I may address the question of the 
Senator from Virginia briefly, I think it is important to keep this in 
context.

First, the Senator from Virginia worries that the Armed Services 
Committee was giving up jurisdiction in order to form this Commission. 
I think it is important to remember that this mess is not just the 
jurisdiction of the Armed Services Committee. This mess is also the 
jurisdiction of the Foreign Relations Committee. It is also the 
jurisdiction of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
Committee. In fact, an argument can be made that this is the modern-day 
Truman Committee, and the chairman of that committee is none other than 
Senator Levin, who chairs the Special Permanent Subcommittee on 
Investigations.

One could make the argument that the State Department should be 
answering to Foreign Relations for the messes in contracting in terms 
of reconstruction. One could argue that the active military should be 
answering to Armed Services. Government Affairs should be looking at 
the whole mess. The bottom line is that this Commission does two 
important things: First, it gets above all of the agencies to bring all 
of the problems to one place, so we don't have the turf fights over 
which committee has jurisdiction over this particular problem that we 
have encountered like never before. As the Senator from Michigan, 
chairman of the committee, said, we have never had this kind of problem 
before in terms of an armed conflict.

The other thing to remember is that, unlike those committees, this is 
bipartisan. This Commission is four Democrats and four Republicans. It 
is not a commission where one party is going to take precedence over 
the other party. We have a representative of the President and the 
Secretary of Defense on this Commission. So the bipartisan nature 
allows us to get above this knee-jerk reaction we have around here that 
if they are for it, we are against it; and if they are against it, we 
are for it. This is way too important to engage in that.

Finally, in terms of time period, this has a set time; it is only 2 
years. The first report is due after the Presidential election in 
January 2009--the first interim report. Next year, when the capping 
report is presented to us, they can give it to this Commission, and 
they can look it over. Stuart Bowen is onboard with this. We discussed 
it at length, and he thinks this is a great way to move forward and get 
this above each individual committee and above some of the 
partisanship. Frankly, we have engaged in it. We are not without sin 
here. My party has engaged in partisanship over this. I understand that 
it may feel that this is an effort to engage in partisanship. That is 
why we went out of our way to say it is going to be bipartisan in 
nature, limited in time, getting above the various committees that have 
jurisdiction here because of the State Department's involvement, DOD's 
involvement, and the involvement of the Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs Committee--three different committees, including 
the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. The first interim report 
is due January 2009. The final report must be presented by January 
2010. This is a 2-year period of time to work and collaborate.

By the way, I tried to count up--and I am sure the Senator from 
Virginia is aware of this--how many people we have working in the 
Department of Defense in auditing and auditing-related activities. 
There are 20,000 people. Now, if you think about that in the context of 
what has gone on, you realize we need some help. How do we have 20,000 
people in contracting and auditing and related investigative activities 
in the DOD and have the kind of runaway abuse that we have had.

By the way, in talking to the generals in Iraq who are involved, they 
were focused on their mission. I have no ill will toward these 
commanders who were trying to get a job done in terms of a military 
context. That is why we need this Commission, to give the military 
clear guidance, along with the State Department, of how we fix this 
systemically. What kind of training do we need to do? These detailees 
within these various areas given the contract oversight responsibility, 
the CORs, are not trained right now. They don't have the core 
competency in terms of contract monitoring that we must have under 
these conditions where we are contracting at an unprecedented level. If 
you look at the modifications we have made, where we have actually said 
we are not ever going to allow this Commission, in terms of members 
leaving, to get to anything other than a four-four, we are never going 
to have a situation where it is not completely bipartisan and where 
they are not going to focus with expertise on ways they can guide our 
committee and guide the committee I serve on, Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs and guide the Foreign Relations Committee in 
making sure we help the State Department and Department of Defense and 
any other Government agencies involved, including inspector general 
agencies and other auditing agencies. Frankly, GAO does a lot of this 
work for Congress, and we take their reports.


I think that in light of what has occurred and the scope of this 
beyond the jurisdiction of any one committee, 2 years is a reasonable 
finite time to come with concrete, meaningful suggestions that get us 
above this partisan rancor over the conflict in Iraq and using it as a 
political football that we have a tendency to throw around here with 
some frequency.

The Senator's leadership on this particular issue is so key to us 
having success with this amendment. I ask the Senator to take some time 
to look at it. I will be happy to visit with him about the conversation 
I had with Stewart Bowen about the valid approach we are making that I 
think will bring about some of the same positive results that were 
brought about in the past, whether it was the 9/11 Commission, the 
Baker-Hamilton Commission or the other commissions the Senator from 
Michigan referenced that the Senator has been involved with and party 
to in terms of wanting outside eyes at some point to help us get beyond 
some of the stuff that goes on that we cannot help.

I think it is tremendously important, and I implore the Senator from 
Virginia to take a look at it again and see if we haven't done the 
things that will reassure him this will be an augmentation of the Armed 
Services Committee's work instead of an abdication of their 
responsibility.