---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `0836c18c26a0fc9455e7c2340a15132c`
`Mr. DONNELLY — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. Speaker, I support our men and women serving in 
harm's way, I support America's veterans, and I support of establishing 
clear benchmarks for progress in Iraq.

Our men and women in Iraq are in the middle of what is becoming an 
increasingly dangerous civil war. Despite their best efforts to provide 
security, train Iraqi forces, and pursue terrorists, the violence in 
Iraq ultimately must be ended by the Iraqi people. The Iraqis must step 
up, once and for all, and take responsibility for their future.

The Iraq war funding bill is the only proposal on the table that sets 
enforceable benchmarks for the Iraqi government and makes clear to the 
Iraqi government that we will not have our soldiers in the middle of a 
religious civil war indefinitely. Distinguished Hoosier and co-chairman 
of the Iraq Study Group, Lee Hamilton, has said that tying continued 
U.S. support, including the presence of our troops, to benchmarks is 
the strongest leverage we have to force the Iraqis to act. He, too, has 
said that this supplemental--despite its imperfections--should move 
forward.

In an ideal situation, the President, and not the Congress, would 
hold the Iraqi government accountable for improving the political and 
security conditions in its country. However, the Bush Administration 
has not held the Iraqi government accountable even while the security 
situation has steadily deteriorated to the point of open civil war 
between rival religious sects.

In early January, I wrote the President. I asked him what the 
consequences would be if the Iraqi government failed to meet the 
benchmarks the President articulated, benchmarks the Iraqi government 
has agreed to meet, in a nationally televised speech. To this day, I 
have received no response from the Bush Administration.

In addition to forcing Iraqi accountability, the Iraq war funding 
bill provides desperately needed funds to ensure that current and 
future veterans and wounded military personnel receive the care and 
attention their service and sacrifice deserve. H.R. 1591 includes $1.3 
billion in new funding for veterans' health care. This bill also 
improves our ability to care for our wounded warriors, with an 
additional $2.8 billion for post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic-
brain injuries, and burns and amputee rehabilitation. Finally, the Iraq 
war funding bill provides $20 million to fix Walter Reed Army Medical 
Center so that the embarrassingly substandard living conditions can be 
quickly remedied.

This legislation also reaffirms our commitment to fighting terrorism 
in Iraq and around the globe. Even if the Iraqis fail to meet our 
benchmarks for progress in Iraq, American forces can still fight and 
pursue terror groups operating in Iraq while continuing to help train 
Iraqi security and counter-terrorism forces. The Iraq war funding bill 
also provides crucial funds to fight a resurgent Taliban and Al Qaeda 
in Afghanistan, and it provides much-needed money for FBI counter-
terrorism initiatives, secures at-risk nuclear materials in other 
countries and provides money to install radiation detection equipment 
at overseas ports that are shipping to the United States.


Mr. Speaker, I said numerous times during the campaign that Congress 
must continue providing full funding for our troops in the field--this 
bill does that by investing $95.5 billion in our military, including 
almost $900 million for new Humvees and $2.4 billion to improve 
protections against Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). Though I do 
not like the idea of setting a timeline for the redeployment of our 
troops, I will not vote against our troops on the field, period. This 
bill moves us in the right direction by sending a message to the 
President--and to the Iraqi government--that the situation in Iraq is 
unacceptable and must change.

The President has previously stated that he hoped Iraqi troops would 
be serving on the front line and that U.S. troops would primarily be in 
a training role before the end of this year. This funding bill extends 
our offensive mission almost one year past the President's own date. We 
are essentially asking the Iraqis to take ownership of their own 
country again. That is critical for both Iraq and the United States.