---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `083cd43ce6cf606695f8c2aced19d06f`
`Mrs. DRAKE — 15 February 2007`

---


Mrs. DRAKE. Thank you, Congressman Johnson, for your service to our 
Nation.

Mr. Speaker, the past few years have been increasingly difficult ones 
for the American people, for our military families, and, most 
importantly, for our servicemembers in harm's way.

Our troops have done everything that has been asked of them, and 
more. Their sacrifices are unimaginable to many of us here on this 
floor. Through it all, the only thing that they have asked is for our 
support through our words, through our prayers, and, most importantly, 
through our actions.

During my two visits to Iraq, the question that I encountered from 
servicemembers was, What are they saying back home? They watch C-SPAN, 
and I know with certainty that they are watching us right now.

The resolution that we are discussing today is nonbinding and, 
therefore, merely symbolic within the Beltway. The driving force behind 
it has more to do with the situation in Washington than it does the 
situation in Baghdad. Yet, half a world away this resolution will have 
demoralizing effects for those men and women who we have asked to go 
into battle.

It is important for the American people watching this debate to know 
that this plan is currently under way.

The Second Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division moved into Baghdad 
nearly a month ago.



The Fourth Brigade of the First Infantry Division is deploying this 
month, with three more brigades set to arrive soon. That means that we 
are not here today to discuss whether or not the troops will go, we are 
discussing what message the troops will hear from us when they get 
there.

Like many of my colleagues, I am concerned about the current 
situation in Iraq. Last April, I witnessed the election of the Iraqi 
Prime Minister. Since that time, the Iraqis have failed to make 
acceptable progress, stabilizing their nation, and strengthening their 
democratic institutions.

Many of us have concerns about the plan. Will Prime Minister Maliki 
live up to the commitments that he made in November? Does this plan get 
the most out of the 21 trained and equipped Iraqi battalions deployed 
outside of Baghdad? These are reasonable questions, and ones I believe 
that are within the scope of Congress to discuss and resolve.

I appreciate debate, and the American people appreciate debate. But 
it is important to remember that the American people have sent us here 
to solve problems. Unfortunately, this resolution makes no attempt to 
solve the problems in Iraq.

If Congress believes that the President's plan can be improved on, 
then Congress has the responsibility to work with the Commander in 
Chief to ensure that the Iraqis are meeting stringent benchmarks and 
are living up to their commitments. This resolution is best defined by 
what it lacks. This resolution fails to include the proposal for a 
bipartisan panel tasked with outlining rigorous benchmarks and making 
sure they are met so that our troops may return home in victory.

This resolution fails to specifically protect the funding that our 
troops need to execute the mission. This resolution fails to condemn 
the terrorists and insurgents who target both our troops and Iraqis, 
and, most importantly, it fails to reiterate that victory should always 
be the goal.

We were told this week would provide an opportunity for every Member 
to go on the record, yet the majority has not allowed a Republican 
alternative that would protect funding for the troops. How do the 
American people know where their Representatives in Washington stand on 
funding for our troops when the majority will not allow that to be?

The American people are anxious, but they want progress, not defeat. 
They want to see their elected officials working together to ensure 
success on behalf of our troops. Simply inserting a sentence, saying 
you support the troops, is not enough when your actions say otherwise. 
The consequences of retreat would be dire. This is understood by our 
allies as well as our regional partners who have spoken up against 
withdrawal.

According to the Iraq National Intelligence Estimate, it would result 
in an immediate increase in sectarian violence and genocide and has the 
potential to destabilize the entire region. For decades, the 
instability in the Middle East has repeatedly resulted in the deaths of 
American citizens and servicemembers, in places as far apart as Beirut 
and Yemen, New York City, and the Pentagon.

A retreat at this point in time could, down the road, necessitate our 
troops returning to an Iraq that is much more dangerous than the one 
they left. I truly believe that the United States has the most 
formidable military in the world, not solely because of our 
technological and tactical advantages, but because our men and women in 
uniform fight in the name of a free and Democratic people. They fight 
on behalf of freedom for all, knowing they have the full support and 
confidence of the American people.

When we take that support away, we strip our troops of the greatest 
weapon in the fight against tyranny. I ask my colleagues not to vote 
for this resolution, but to once again work together.