# None
## `084954a2968b3527f4b796a9cfec5ab0`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Before the gentleman goes to the memo, you said 
this thing is not just about Iraq.

Let me just say very quickly, again, you know here in the 30-
something Working Group, we love, we don't like, we love third party 
validators. We love it, Mr. Speaker. We can't get enough of it. It 
fires us up. We just love it.

Here is the deal. Requiring the President to honor the standards of 
the Department of Defense set for troop readiness, training, equipment 
before sending troops into battle, 70 percent favor requiring U.S. 
troops returning from Iraq to have at least 1 year in the U.S. before 
being redeployed to Iraq. That is a Gallup Poll, USA Today, 3-6-07. It 
is not a poll we did. This is just a poll that these news organizations 
have held.

Holding Iraqi government to the same standards for progress that the 
President outlined in announcing the escalation of troops. Seventy-
seven percent favored requiring U.S. troops to come home from Iraq if 
Iraqi leaders failed to meet the promises to reduce the violence there. 
That is the Gallup Poll-USA Today.

This is very, very, very important. Providing urgency needed to 
support addressing the military medical care crisis at Walter Reed and 
other hospitals, 76 percent of Americans do not think the Bush 
administration has done enough to be responsible to take care of the 
needs of our men and women that are in uniform.

Mr. Ryan, the bottom line is that this is not a political speech that 
we are on the floor giving. This is reality. This is governance. This 
is oversight and this is accountability.

And for Members, Mr. Speaker, who feel that we shouldn't be venturing 
off into the area of leadership, maybe they didn't pay attention to 
what took place last November. I would say to some of my friends on the 
Republican side, because if this was political, I would keep it a 
secret. But you know, Mr. Ryan, we always talk about issues that may be 
detrimental to the Democratic forward progress of gaining more seats in 
the House.

If Republican Members want to vote on being with their, quote-
unquote, leadership that has them in the minority right now, because 
they use catch words like well, you know, we don't need to make 
decisions because the President is making decisions and it is not our 
place to do it. Oh, we don't have to have accountability measures 
within the appropriations bill, within the emergency supplemental, 
because we need to leave the flexibility for Secretary Rumsfeld and 
unnamed individuals in the White House and unnamed folks over in the 
Pentagon to make these decisions.

I am going to tell you right now, that is the road leading to the 
minority, because it is a lack of oversight and a lack of leadership 
and a lack of accountability. And I am so happy, Mr. Ryan, I am very 
happy, it fires me up, Mr. Speaker, that we have a majority that is 
willing to do what we must do to give the American people, because we 
are responsible, they are our stockholders. They gave their tax dollars 
for us to have the opportunity to appropriate those dollars and have 
oversight over those dollars in an appropriate way.



And by reading these poll numbers and what you just shared, Mr. Ryan, 
is more than vindication, more than third-party validators; it is 
leadership, accountability, and being fiscally responsible on behalf of 
the taxpayer dollars. I can tell you that I don't know a Republican 
that would say, ''I am against accountability.'' I don't know of a 
Democrat who would say, ''I don't like being fiscally responsible; I 
like to be fiscally irresponsible.''

I don't know an Independent who says, and Independents came out in 
record numbers this last election. They voted for a new direction, and 
I am so glad we are giving it to them.