---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `087960502a0a70d6d26346d8623464d0`
`Mr. OBEY — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 10 minutes.

Yesterday, a number of Members on the Republican side of the aisle 
sought to belittle the legislation before us because, in addition to 
funding the needs of the troops in Iraq, it contains money to address a 
number of domestic priorities. To ridicule that legislation, they tried 
to belittle items such as funding for levees in New Orleans, and 
agriculture disaster payments. In that they have been joined by 
editorial writers at papers such as the Washington Post.

Like the Post, the Republican speakers of yesterday indicated that 
their main objection to this legislation is the way it tries to create 
pressure to end our military involvement in an Iraq civil war. Those 
speakers and the Washington Post editorial writers make no effort to 
understand why these additional items are there. They simply ridicule 
them for their own purposes. This bill has my name on it, and I take 
full responsibility for each and every item in the bill.

Despite the comments of my good friend from California suggesting 
that if I could have written this bill, it would have been quite 
different, this is not a bill that was imposed from Nancy Pelosi's 
Speaker's Office. Oh, yes, she was consulted. But every last provision 
in this bill was not included until I personally approved of it, and I 
take full responsibility for it.

I want to be very clear about some of the items that the editorial 
writers and certain Members of this House have been criticizing.

Let's start with agriculture. I haven't voted for a farm bill in the 
last 10 years because I believe that existing farm programs provide way 
too much funding for large farmers and way too little funding for 
family farmers. But the fact is that over the past 2 years, over 70 
percent of the counties in this country were declared disaster areas, 
not by me, but by the President of the United States. That entitles 
farmers who have suffered that weather-related disaster to certain 
forms of compensation.

The previous Congress tried to work its way through that problem for 
well over a year and failed. We at one time this year were looking at a 
bill in the Senate costing $6 billion. Thanks to the efforts of 
Chairman Peterson on this side of the Capitol, the cost of those 
agriculture disaster programs have been cut by one-third, by tightening 
up eligibility requirements.

I applaud him for making those changes.

There is a second criticism being made about the fact that there is 
some money in here for dairy. You bet there is. Because under the 
Republican stewardship, during the last Congress, or two Congresses 
ago, actually, in order to use an accounting gimmick, the then majority 
on the Agriculture Committee arranged to have the dairy program expire 
one month before every other farm program. That was done only for 
budget fiction purposes, to hide the true cost of the farm bill 5 years 
ago. You bet, in this legislation there is a 1-month fix so that when 
we go into writing the next farm bill, dairy will have a chance to 
compete with other farm programs.

I find the Washington Post criticism of this especially interesting, 
since they often squawk about the fact that farm programs give too much 
to large farmers. The MILC Program happens to focus on small farmers, 
which is why so many big farmers don't like the program. I make no 
apology for recognizing that is an inequity that needs to be fixed.

Then we have a squawk about spinach. Let me tell you why spinach is 
in here. You can laugh about it now, but people were dying last year 
because of an E. coli outbreak.

Now, the FDA did not have the authority to require mandatory recalls 
of spinach. What some of these companies did, despite the fact that 
their product was clean, they voluntarily withdrew their product from 
the market. That cost them a bundle and brought a lot of people to near 
bankruptcy.

I have heard a lot of conservatives on this floor talk about how 
outrageous it is when the government engages in an unconstitutional 
taking. They usually are talking in terms of land or environment. 
Doesn't the government that required or that asked these people to 
participate in the withdrawal in order to protect public health, 
doesn't that government have an obligation to people who exercise their 
patriotic duty and did what they were asked? I think they do. That is 
why this is in here.

Then they are squawking about aquaculture. Well, let me explain why 
that item is in the bill. In eight States in the union, fish farmers 
woke up one morning and discovered that the Federal Government had 
issued an edict which prevented them from transferring their product 
across State lines because lake trout, in the Great Lakes region, had 
been discovered to have viral hemorrhagic septicemia, a highly virulent 
fish disease. If it was allowed to get into lakes, in the Great Lakes, 
it could have ruined the entire fish supply. So, the government said 
you can't sell your fish across State lines.

Again, the problem was that the fish that they were prohibited from 
shipping across State lines was all healthy. In a catch-22 situation, 
if their fish had been diseased, they could have collected under 
disaster programs. But because they were healthy, they couldn't 
collect. So the government put those people out of business.

Does the government have an obligation to correct that problem? You 
better bet you they do. That is why it is in this bill.

There are some other items in the bill as well that people don't 
like. But the main frustration on the part of the opponents of this 
bill is because people don't like the way that we are going about 
trying to end our military participation in an Iraqi civil war.

Let me submit to you the problem we have today is not that we didn't 
listen enough to people like the Washington Post, it is that we 
listened too much. They endorsed going to war in the first place. They 
helped drive the drumbeat that drove almost two-thirds of the people in 
this Chamber to vote for that misbegotten, stupid, ill-advised war that 
has destroyed our influence over a third of the world. So I make no 
apology if the moral sensibilities of some people on this floor, or the 
editorial writers of the Washington Post, are offended because they 
don't like the specific language contained in our benchmarks or in our 
timelines.

What matters in the end is not what the specific language is. What 
matters is whether or not we produce a product today that puts pressure 
on this administration and sends a message to Iraq, to the Iraqi 
politicians, that we are going to end the permanent, long-term 
babysitting service. That is what we are trying to do.

If the Washington Post is offended about the way we do it, that is 
just too bad. But we are in the arena, they are not. This is the best 
we can do, given the tools we have, and I make absolutely no apology 
for it.

I would say one thing, those of us who voted against the war in the 
first place wouldn't have nearly as hard a time getting us out of the 
war if people like the Washington Post and those who criticized us on 
the floor yesterday hadn't supported going into that stupid war in the 
first place

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.