---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `087b30fc64adfa5e2729a5b5c8f89054`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Mr. Chairman, today it was with great 
reluctance that I cast my vote against the Woolsey substitute budget 
amendment. I say it was with great reluctance because the progressive 
budget put forth by the amendment contained a great many individual 
provisions that I strongly support.

I strongly applaud the inclusion of full funding for No Child Left 
Behind in the amendment, and believe that we as a Congress must 
continue to work toward that goal. For too long, the Republican 
majority and President Bush have forced local communities to bear the 
brunt of No Child Left Behind's mandates without sufficient Federal 
support. For the sake of our children, our schools, and our communities 
we need to rectify this.

Likewise, I admire, respect, and support the amendment's commitment 
to full, guaranteed funding for veterans' healthcare. As the ongoing 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan create a new generation of veterans with 
critical new healthcare needs, we must make sure that the VA healthcare 
system will be able to accommodate them while caring for veterans from 
previous generations. As a member of the Committee on Veterans' 
Affairs, I remain committed to making sure that the VA can honor the 
sacred pact we make with our soldiers; that if they fight to defend our 
Nation, our Nation will make sure they have the care they need.

There are other highly commendable provisions in the amendment, 
including the repeal of the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 percent 
of Americans, tax cuts which I believe have helped to put us on the 
path to fiscal ruin without providing one bit of support for working 
families. The proposal also includes much-needed provisions to crack 
down on corporate welfare and a commitment to expand health coverage to 
all Americans.

I support these provisions, and it is my deep and abiding hope that 
they will be brought to the floor of this Chamber individually to be 
considered and adopted by the House. However, the option to consider 
them as such was not available today.

The previous majority left this House, and this Nation, with an 
astounding fiscal train wreck, and in order to restore budgetary 
balance we must make difficult decisions. I am also concerned that 
although there are many laudable goals included in the substitute 
amendment, it failed to reform the Alternative Minimum Tax, which 
unintentionally and unnecessarily burdens a tremendous number of the 
residents of the Hudson Valley.



The underlying budget resolution, for which I cast my vote, contains 
strong funding increases for many of the programs I have discussed, 
balances the budget, and provides vital AMT relief. In light of the 
fiscal challenges created by previous Congresses, I believe that the 
underlying budget represents a strong, responsible step forward and is 
deserving of support.