# None
## `087db8a7464ee9c9b69b24e0d3a37c63`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, the legislation currently before us 
curtails the ability of American citizens, or U.S. permanent residents, 
to petition for their families to be reunified here in America. Right 
now, if the bill goes untouched, this bill sets two different standards 
for groups of people, and it sets it in a way that is fundamentally 
unfair. One group is those who have followed the law and obeyed the 
rules by having their U.S. citizen relative or U.S. lawful permanent 
resident petition to bring them into this country legally, and one more 
favorably--it treats the next group much more favorably, one who has 
entered or remained in the country without proper documentation. So 
those who have obeyed the rules, followed the law, relatives of U.S. 
citizens, get treated in an inferior way to those who have not followed 
the law, who get treated in a better way. Let me explain how.

The Menendez-Hagel amendment simply states that at a minimum, the two 
groups should be treated equally under the bill. Our amendment is about 
fundamental fairness. All this amendment does is to make sure both 
groups face the same cutoff date.

Right now, those who are in our Nation in an undocumented status are 
allowed under the bill to potentially earn permanent residency so long 
as they entered this country before January 1, 2007. All our amendment 
says is that those who followed the rules who are waiting outside of 
the country who are the immediate relatives of U.S. citizens shouldn't 
be treated worse because they obeyed the law and followed the rules. 
They should at least be treated the same, not worse. Therefore, they 
should have the same date: January 1, 2007. All this amendment does is 
simply apply the same standard, the same cutoff date to those who 
followed the rules so that those who did obey the law and who legally 
applied for their green card can potentially earn permanent residency 
so long as they apply for their visa before January 1, 2007.

Now, this is a somewhat complicated issue, so let me explain exactly 
what the legislation as it is currently drafted does if we don't adopt 
this amendment. Right now, there is a family


backlog of people who have applied for legal permanent residency. These 
are the people waiting outside of the country, waiting as they are 
claimed and have their petitions by a U.S. citizen or permanent 
resident saying: I want to bring my father or my mother here. I want to 
bring my child here. I want to bring my brother or sister here. This 
legislation, as currently drafted, does away with the rights of U.S. 
citizens to make that claim if, in fact, those individuals have not 
filed their application before May 1, 2005.

It is important to pay attention to that May 1, 2005 date because it 
is nearly 2 years before the cutoff for people who are here in an 
undocumented status--those who didn't follow the law, obey the rules, 
and those who may obviously have no U.S. citizen to claim them. So it 
actually says to a U.S. citizen and a U.S. permanent resident: You have 
an inferior right and a right that is now lost because it exists under 
the law as it is today. That right is lost, and your right is inferior 
to the rights of those individuals who have not followed the rules and 
obeyed the law. So as this bill seeks to clear the legal family 
backlog, we say: Don't treat a U.S. citizen worse. Don't treat a U.S. 
citizen worse. The legislation as currently drafted sets this arbitrary 
date of May 1, 2005, yet gives everybody else who didn't follow the law 
the date of January 1, 2007. That means a lot of family gets cut off. 
The rights of U.S. citizens get cut off as well.

Right now, the legislation also says that if you overstayed a visa or 
came to this country without proper documentation before January 1, 
2007, you can ultimately become a lawful, permanent resident between 
the 9th and 13th year of the process that the bill describes. But if 
you applied for a visa outside of the country and you applied by a U.S. 
citizen or permanent resident and you followed the rules, there is no--
no--guarantee you will ever be able to be reunified with your family.

Our amendment would remedy this injustice by moving the cutoff date 
for those who legally applied for visas to January 1, 2007--the same 
cutoff date that is currently set for the legalization of undocumented 
immigrants. And we would add the appropriate number of green cards to 
ensure we don't create a new backlog or cause the 8-year deadline for 
clearing the family backlog to slip by a few years. So we stay within 
the framework of the underlying bill; we just bring justice and 
fairness to the bill for those who have obeyed the law, followed the 
rules, and are the family members of U.S. citizens.

Now, why shouldn't legal applicants be able to keep their place in 
line if they applied before January of 2007? Clearly, this legislation, 
as it is currently written, is unfair to those who legally applied for 
a visa. The legislation unfairly says that those who followed the rules 
lose their place in line. The legislation unfairly says that those who 
followed the rules will have to wait at least an additional 8 years 
before they even become eligible to compete--eligible to compete--for a 
new proposed merit-based green card. The legislation unfairly says that 
those who followed the rules would have to wait a total of 10 years in 
addition to the time they have been waiting--in addition to the time 
they have been waiting--before they are eligible to compete under a new 
and different system, with a different set of rules, and no guarantee 
they will ever be able to be reunited with their family member, that 
U.S. citizen or permanent resident. Clearly, at a minimum, we should 
allow those who played by the rules to have the same cutoff date of 
January 1, 2007.

Now, not only is it unfair to make people who follow the rules wait 
longer than those who chose not to, it is also wrong to make people who 
applied under our current system have to reapply under a totally 
different one. Those who applied on May 1, 2005, or after, applied 
under our current immigration system that values family ties and 
employment at a premium, unlike under this bill, would now be subject 
to a completely different standard that is primarily concerned with 
education and skill levels. This is like changing the rules of the game 
halfway through it. People who applied after May 2005 would not only 
lose credit for the up to 2 years they have been waiting under the 
legal process, they would also have to apply under a completely 
different system than the one under which they originally applied.

Now, let's think of how fundamentally unfair that is.

In this photo is the late Marine LCpl Jose Antonio Gutierrez, a 
permanent resident of the United States--the first American casualty in 
the war in Iraq. For people similar to the late Jose Antonio Gutierrez 
who served their country, for them, under this bill--he was not only 
here legally but was serving his country--oh, no, you apply for your 
family by May 1, 2005, or, sorry, we will give those people who don't 
follow the rules and obey the law a preference. But you, who served 
your country, you who wore the uniform, you who have done everything 
right--no, you have an inferior right.

Is that the legacy we leave to people who have served their country, 
a legal permanent resident? Sometimes people don't even know we have 
legal permanent residents fighting in the service of the United 
States--tens of thousands. That is fundamentally unfair.

In this photo is another group of lawful permanent residents, ''first 
called to duty.'' They were in different services of the Armed Forces 
of the United States, serving their country, in harm's way. Guess what. 
Under the bill, you have family abroad, you applied for them, you did 
the right thing, and you told them to wait. After May 1, 2005, sorry, 
Charlie, your right is gone, just like that. Your value and service 
doesn't matter. All these soldiers, sailors, and marines--all different 
services--all of them are ultimately serving their country.

Under this bill, we take people such as them, and so many others, and 
vitiate their rights. That is fundamentally unfair. These people not 
only are serving our country abroad, they are protecting our airports, 
our seaports, and our borders. They risk their lives in Afghanistan and 
Iraq and around the world to protect us at home. To petition for your 
sister to come to live with you in America, you lose that right if you 
filed after May 1, 2005. You didn't do the right thing, but you get the 
benefit of 2 years more than those who obeyed the laws and followed the 
rules--brothers and sisters, sons and daughters, mothers and fathers. 
It is hard to imagine that one would have that right taken away from 
them.

Here is another case for you to consider. You are a U.S. citizen, you 
have paid your taxes, you have served your Nation, you attend church, 
and you make a good living. You are a good citizen. You petition to 
have your adult child come to America, but you did so after the 
arbitrary date of May 1, 2005. Under this bill, that U.S. citizen would 
lose their right. However, those undocumented in the country after May 
1, 2005, get a benefit. It is hard to imagine, but it is true.

Right now, this bill is unfair and nonsensical, capriciously 
punishing those who have followed the rules and legally applied for a 
green card. What message, then, do we send? I have heard a lot about 
the rule of law, a lot about waiting in line, a lot about all those who 
should have followed our immigration laws. Yet what message does the 
bill send? You followed it, but your rights are vitiated, taken away--
not the rights of the family member waiting abroad to come here, it is 
the rights of the U.S. citizen to make the claim for that individual. 
That is what bothers me about the underlying legislation. They are 
taking my right away and your right away as a U.S. citizen.

We must make sure that people who have played by the rules and 
legally applied to immigrate here are not arbitrarily placed at a 
disadvantage in respect to those who are in this country in an 
undocumented status. As I have said many times before, comprehensive 
immigration reform must be tough but must also be practical and fair 
and tough on border security. Certainly, we have done that here--this 
bill even moved more to the right--by providing a pathway to earned 
citizenship.

At the same time, we have to be fair by rewarding those who have 
followed the law. I think we have to remain true to those principles. 
Let me give you a little sense of this. I have heard a lot about chain 
migration. You know, it is interesting, we have seen during history 
that when we want to dehumanize something, take out the humanity of 
something, when we want to make it an abstract object, we find a word 
or a


phrase for it, such as chain migration. I have heard a lot about what a 
''nuclear family'' is and is not.

I will use these paperclips to demonstrate this. I always thought a 
mother or father, son or daughter, brother and sister was not a chain; 
I thought that was a circle of strength. It is a circle of strength 
within our community. It is a sense of what our society is all about, 
regardless of what altar you worship at, what creed you believe in. I 
thought, when I heard the speeches of family values on the floor, that 
this was a circle of strength and dignity and the very essence of what 
is essential for our communities to grow and prosper.

What does this bill do? It says that is not a value--a mother, 
father, son, daughter, brother, sister. It is not a value. That is what 
this bill does. Let me tell you what family values have meant to this 
country. Here on the chart are names of Americans who had immigrant 
parents. A lot of them probably could not have come to this country 
under the bill as proposed. Look at what their offspring have provided 
for this country.


A gentleman known as General Petraeus happens to be leading our 
efforts in Iraq. He is our big hope to turn it around. He had immigrant 
parents.

Thomas Edison, from my home State of New Jersey, Menlo Park, invented 
electricity. He may not have been the originator of that in this 
country if his parents had not come here.

Martin Sheen, from the show ''West Wing,'' would not have been here 
under this bill.

Jonas Salk invented the polio vaccine, which was a great achievement. 
His parents would have likely not made it here under this bill.

Colin Powell, former Secretary of State, former chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff--he is somebody who is admired on both sides of the 
aisle--he would not have made it here under this bill.

Antonin Scalia--I may not agree with him all the time, but he is a 
distinguished member of the Supreme Court of the United States. Several 
of these names you might recognize as Republicans. He would not have 
likely made it here under the bill as proposed; Carl Sandburg, a great 
poet, who wrote of our humanity as a people; the late Peter Jennings, 
who talked to us every night on television.

These are all people who have contributed in so many different ways 
to our country because their parents came to America. Family values 
have enriched America.

Let me give you another group of citizens. These, unlike those others 
who were born in the United States, are naturalized U.S. citizens, 
meaning they weren't born in this country. They came here through the 
immigration process of our country. I would like to think some of them 
have contributed some good things:

The Governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger. I am not sure he 
would have made it into this country; Henry Kissinger, former Secretary 
of State; Ted Koppel, who brought us the news on ''Nightline:'' Levi 
Strauss, you have probably worn his products; Desi Arnez, one of my 
favorites, a Cuban immigrant, who loved Lucy every day on national TV; 
Bob Hope was a naturalized U.S. citizen. He brought an enormous amount 
of joy to our service men and women across the globe; Patrick Ewing, a 
great basketball player; Oscar de la Renta, a great designer; Liz 
Claiborne; Madeleine Albright, former Secretary of State; Albert 
Einstein. His parents never would have made it under this bill; Andrew 
Carnegie of the Carnegie Foundation; Joseph Pulitzer, of Pulitzer Prize 
fame; Michael J. Fox, who talks to us every day about the necessity for 
stem cell research and the incredible challenges of Americans with 
Parkinson's. He is a naturalized U.S. citizen.

The list goes on and on. The bottom line is that under this bill, so 
many of those, such as General Petraeus, Colin Powell, Thomas Edison, 
and Antonin Scalia, whose parents came to this country and therefore 
gave them the opportunity to be born in America, they would not have 
made it under this bill. Family values. Those who did not have the good 
fortune to be born here, but because their parents immigrated here, 
were naturalized U.S. citizens. They have contributed greatly.

So let's not dehumanize this reality. This isn't about ''chain 
migration.'' This isn't about some abstract sense of how we try to 
change a very important concept--family, family values, reunification, 
strengthening communities, and having great Americans who have altered 
the course of history and made this country the greatest experiment and 
country in the history of the world.

Our amendment simply says to all those who have espoused family 
values, it is time to put your vote with your values. It says don't 
snuff out the right of a U.S. citizen or a U.S. permanent resident, 
these guys in this picture--don't snuff out their right, all permanent 
residents of the U.S. originally, don't snuff out their rights to be 
able to claim family members. Don't treat those of us who are U.S. 
citizens and legal permanent residents worse than those people who 
didn't obey the law, follow the rules, and came into the country. Don't 
do this. At least treat us equally. At least treat us equally.

With that, I yield the floor.