# CONDITIONS IN THE ECONOMY
## `08824fd76a2855f2c37b508454ae4054`
`Mr. AKIN — 11 February 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Thank you, Madam Speaker. It's a pleasure to be able to 
join you again this evening and to talk about the subject that is 
certainly on


the minds and hearts of Americans everywhere, and that is the 
conditions in the economy.

We find ourselves this time at a unique position. We have heard for 
the past 6 and 7 years about the tremendous cost--how there's billions 
of dollars being spent day after day in Iraq and in a costly war in 
Afghanistan. And so it is a bit of a surprise that we find now that if 
you were to add the cost of the war in Iraq for the past 6 years, and 
then add up the cost in Afghanistan, the war there for the past 7 
years, and then add those two numbers together, you would find that 
here, in the first 6 weeks of the administration, we are going to spend 
more money in 6 weeks than we did in those wars over a 6- and 7-year 
period of time.

How did we get to this curious place? When we start talking about 
$800 billion, one of the dangers of entering this kind of unchartered 
territory is that our eyes glaze over. What is $800 billion anyway?

Well, there are different ways of looking at it. If you think of it 
from the point of view of the defense budget, we currently have 12 or 
13 aircraft carriers. Those are considered by defense people as very 
valuable. And you don't want to let people torpedo your aircraft 
carriers because 12 or 13 aircraft carriers have got a lot of airplanes 
on them, a lot of people on them. Costs a whole lot of money.

How many aircraft carriers could you buy with $800 billion? Well, we 
are talking about, at the price we paid for some of them, about 250 
aircraft carriers. Or, if you buy the most brand new, fancy one and 
don't discount it any for mass production, you're talking about over 
100 aircraft carriers that we are going to spend--kaboom--in the first 
few weeks of a new administration.

So how was it that we got to this curious point that there appears to 
be a crisis this severe? I have to say as a Republican, I don't 
disagree that we have our economic problems and that there are things 
that we should do about them. Fortunately, we have history as our North 
Star to show us what will and what will not work.

First of all, how did we get here? Well, it was something that 
developed, as you can imagine, over time. It didn't just happen 
overnight. Going back to the Carter years, there was the Community 
Reinvestment Act. What Carter and the people that were in Congress at 
this time said was, Hey, we've got certain areas in some of our cities 
where banks are not willing to give people loans. And that is not fair 
because every American ought to have the opportunity to own their own 
home.

So what we are going to do is we are going to tell the banks that 
they have to give loans around to people all over their communities. Of 
course, the banks were a little reluctant because the banks' concerns 
were, Hey, some of these loans may not be paid and we are going to end 
up picking up the tab. So that was starting with Carter.

Then, after Carter, we ended up creating what was known as Freddie 
Mac and Fannie Mae. And those also were partly government, but partly 
not government agencies, and their whole purpose was designed to try to 
provide average Americans with loans for their houses, which is a nice 
thing to do. They were really not under the administration control, and 
yet it was implied that these loans would be backed up by the Federal 
Government. So they were not really public, but not really private. 
They were half and half.

And Freddie and Fannie started doing more and more and more 
investment. They grew and they started picking up more loans of people 
in America, to the point that last year Freddie and Fannie had more 
than 50 percent of the loans of Americans, that Americans had on their 
houses. So Freddie and Fannie got really big.

Well, when Clinton comes along, Clinton, during his last year in 
office, he changed the rules some for Freddie and Fannie and increased 
the percentage of the loans that Freddie and Fannie had to make to 
people who were high risk people that would be getting these mortgages.

So that, in combination then with the fact that Greenspan drops the 
interest rate low, you start to get a combination of more and more 
people being loaned money that they can't afford to pay back, and 
speculators who can't afford to pay the money, borrow money, knowing 
that the housing market is going up like a skyrocket because, who 
knows, housing has never come down in America, so just keep betting on 
the fact that housing is going to be going up. So they continued to do 
that.

Well, was this something that nobody saw coming? Not so. You can go 
to the New York Times, not exactly a Republican right wing oracle, and 
the New York Times on September 11, 2003, includes an article that 
says, President Bush is asking for authority to regulate Freddie and 
Fannie because they are getting crazy with the kinds of loans they are 
making. He says, We are going to have a big problem if we don't 
regulate Freddie and Fannie. These two entities. This is a New York 
Times article. You can look it up. It's September 11, 2003.

So, Bush is pushing for regulation of Freddie and Fannie. In the 
meantime, he is being opposed by who? Well, he is being opposed by the 
Democrats. Particularly, Barney Frank makes this statement, These two 
entities, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, are not facing any kind of financial 
crisis, said Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the ranking 
Democrat on the Financial Services Committee.

That's interesting, isn't it? This is the man who's responsible for 
fixing the problem, and he's the man that said, There isn't any problem 
at all. We don't need to regulate these things.

The more people exaggerate these problems, the more pressure there is 
on these companies, and we'll see in terms of affordable housing. He's 
saying, Well, we're not going to be able to do enough affordable 
housing if we were to limit any of the activities of Freddie and 
Fannie.

Well, people have said, Well, this whole financial crisis we have got 
in America, this is a problem of free enterprise. It has nothing to do 
with free enterprise. This is a Big Government socialistic program that 
was not regulated properly, and it started to cause trouble. And, as 
you know, these loans got worse and worse. It was exaggerated and 
exasperated by the fact that you have got rating agencies in New York 
that were playing along with a very greedy Wall Street. They were 
raiding these loans at AAA rating when a lot of people who made the 
loans knew there's no way people could pay that kind of loan. They 
weren't asking, How much money do you make; they weren't saying, How 
are you going to pay it back? You want half a million? Fine. We'll 
write you the loan. Boom. Give it to Freddie and Fannie and let the 
government pick up the pieces when it crashes.

And so these loans, as the real estate market gets higher and higher 
and higher because of low interest rates, when that bubble starts to 
pop, all of a sudden these loans start coming down and it poisons the 
entire world economy. And that is what we have seen happen. Now, half 
of those loans are still outstanding.

So this is not a problem with free enterprise. This is a simple 
problem of the Democrats in the Senate killing a bill that the 
Republicans passed in the House, allowing the President to try and 
regulate. They couldn't do it.



So, this problem is one of another social program, perhaps even sold 
and marketed as compassionate, yet I don't know how it is compassionate 
to have somebody borrow money that they can't afford to pay back. And 
that's how things got started here.

Now what we're going to talk about is a couple of things: How bad 
really is the problem? And I also want to mention the fact that there 
are really two views at how to solve this problem. What you see on the 
floor, we just saw an hour ago, the Democrats were saying, you know, 
our package is fantastic, it's going to fix all the problems, it's 
really great, we've got to hurry up and pass this thing which, as I 
mentioned, is the equivalent of more than a hundred brand new, modern 
aircraft carriers parked in a row. That's a fair amount of money, okay? 
It's more than the entire economy of Australia. We're talking about 
spending more money than we will receive in tax revenues for the year 
2008 in America. In other words, you take all the money we collect at 
the Federal Government in tax revenues and add it together, we're 
spending more than that in the first 6 weeks. This is a fair amount of 
money we're talking about here.



I am joined, though, right now by some very good friends and 
colleagues of mine, and I think they've got some perspective on this. I 
would like to go first to Congressman Mike Coffman. Mike brings us some 
very unique qualifications from the State of Colorado. He was the 
treasurer of the State of Colorado, so you've dealt some with money, 
Mike. And then also you ran your own small business. I think that what 
we need is not a lot of cries of crisis but some cold-blooded analysis 
of what the problem is, what the proper solution is, and then we need 
to be moving forward boldly but to do the right thing and not just 
waste a whole lot of money.

I would yield time to Congressman Coffman from Colorado.