---
---

# MOTION TO ADJOURN
## `089b0dbe3e16eb3fe5f8c3a7926c9a92`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 3 August 2007`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague for yielding.

As our previous colleague was talking, I think she laid it out pretty 
well. Are we going to involve the courts in reviewing our foreign 
intelligence activities? If you take a look at the bill that is out 
here, it appears that the court is going to be involved in reviewing 
our intelligence community activities overseas. This becomes the 
Terrorist Protection Act, not a surveillance program.

Do we want a court reviewing our tactics and strategies for foreign 
intelligence or foreign individuals in foreign locations and lay it out 
the way that this bill wants? This is not about theory. This is about 
protecting the homeland, and it is about protecting our troops in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, and Pakistan.

Does it make sense that when a commander in the field gets the 
information or gets leads that may protect their soldiers that, rather 
than following the lead immediately, the first thing that they do is 
bring in the lawyers to make sure that they get that information in an 
appropriate and legal way on the battlefield? Is that giving our troops 
the tools that they need to keep themselves safe and secure and defeat 
the enemy?

Does it make sense when our intelligence frontline folks, whether 
it's in northern Africa or in the Middle East, get a lead as to 
individuals who may be targeting the United States, that the first 
thing that they need to do is get the lawyers involved to make sure 
that foreign intelligence is collected in an appropriate way, rather 
than focusing on what needs to keep us safe?

After 9/11, we spent a lot of time working together to put together 
an intelligence community that would, in the future, be able to connect 
the dots. With this bill that it looks like we're going to consider 
this afternoon, we won't have to worry about connecting the dots 
anymore because we will put the barriers in place that means that they 
will not even be able to collect the dots. But if you believe that this 
is a bumper sticker war and this is a bumper sticker threat that we 
face today, this bill is for you.

Take a look at the statement by the Director of National 
Intelligence. The Director of National Intelligence today is the same 
individual that served many years under President Bill Clinton as the 
Director of the National Security Agency. Here's what he has to say 
about this bill:




 I have reviewed the proposal that the House of 


 Representatives is expected to vote on this afternoon to 


 modify the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. The House 


 proposal is unacceptable. I strongly oppose it. The House 


 proposal would not allow me to carry out my responsibility to 


 provide warning and to protect the Nation, especially in our 


 heightened threat environment. I urge Members of Congress to 


 support the legislation I provided last evening to modify 


 FISA to equip our intelligence community with the tools we 


 need to protect our Nation.


This is an individual who has a 30-year career in this business. He 
served President Clinton; he's serving President Bush, but most 
importantly, it is


a career that is distinguished because he has served the country and 
has kept us safe. Let's respect his opinion. Let's give him the tools 
that will keep us safe, keep us safe in the homeland and keep our 
troops safe on the battlefield.

