# IMPROVING AMERICA'S SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `08a2d317772a101ea9fb75aa78eff004`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 28 February 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, today, 544 million people are eligible 
to travel into the U.S. without a visa as part of the Visa Waiver 
Program. If we add these ''roadmap'' countries to the program, we will 
add 162 million more people who can travel into the United States 
without a visa--a 30 percent increase.

And if these 19 additional ''roadmap'' countries can come into the 
program, what is to preclude any other country from coming into the 
program? How do we say ''no'' to India, also a good ally, when its 
refusal rate--19.5 percent--is lower than 4 of the roadmap--countries? 
The rejection rate for China--24.5 percent--is lower than those coming 
from Romania. Indonesia, at 35.1 percent just exceeds Romania. So this 
bill will likely set up some real conflicts and create additional 
problems.

The administration has argued that the expansion of the visa waiver 
countries should be limited to our allies. But what does it mean to be 
an ally? According to this administration, when we invaded Iraq we 
counted Colombia with a 33.3 percent visa rejection rate, and 
Nicaragua, with a 48 percent rejection rate among our allies because 
they had provided some assistance in war.

Do we, in Congress, really want to give the administration unfettered 
flexibility to allow nationals from any country to travel to the U.S. 
without a visa, simply because their governments have cooperated with 
ours?

Does that mean that those nationals should be allowed to come to the 
United States with no advance screening?

We can only assume that we will also significantly increase the 
number of people who will not leave the United States after their visa 
expires. In this manner, this bill, if enacted into law, will likely 
add many thousands, if not millions, to the undocumented or illegal 
population.

Remember, today, 30 to 40 percent of the illegal population are, in 
fact, visa overstays--people who come with temporary or visitor visas 
and do not return to their countries.

I believe we should not expand this program without a good hard look 
at how it will compromise our national security, law enforcement, and 
immigration goals and without ensuring that safety measures are in 
place to make the program strong.

First, whenever the United States adds new countries to the program, 
it increases the demand for, and the availability of, fraudulent travel 
documents.

The value of lost, stolen or fraudulent Visa Waiver Program documents 
is enormous. A person carrying a visa waiver country passport has 
virtually unlimited access into and out of the United States.

No doubt, the expansion of the program will increase the use of 
fraudulent border documents which are sold on the black market in the 
tens of thousands: passports, international driver's licenses, and 
other forms of identification from new visa waiver countries will flood 
the market.

According to the July 2006 GAO report on improving the security of 
the Visa Waiver Program, visa waiver travel documents have been used by 
criminals and terrorists seeking to disguise their true identity.

In 2004, more than 15 million people from 27 countries traveled in 
and out of the United States with no visa.

And from January through June 2005--a 6-month period--the Department 
of Homeland Security reported that it confiscated 298 fraudulent or 
altered passports issued by Visa Waiver Program countries that 
travelers were attempting to use to enter the United States. And these 
are just the ones who got caught.

In fact, Interpol reports that they have records of more than 12 
million stolen and lost travel documents in their database, but that 
there are 30 to 40 million travel documents have been stolen worldwide.

We can extrapolate that tens of thousands of those documents are from 
visa waiver countries.

As the 9/11 Commission report demonstrates, individuals with 
fraudulent documents pose a far greater threat to our national security 
than those traveling with no documents at all.

For that reason, Senator Sessions and I have introduced a bill this 
Congress to crack down on people who traffic in lost and stolen travel 
documents.

The second problem is that some countries have very weak policies on 
who can become a citizen--and therefore legally obtain travel 
documents. Not every country has the same strict controls on who can 
become a citizen as the U.S. does.

For example, Romania, one of the ''road map'' countries, extends 
citizenship to many citizens of Ukraine or Moldova as a matter of 
course without prior residency requirements. Ukraine and Moldova are 
not slated to participate in the visa waiver program, and in fact, have 
visa rejection rates of 38.7 percent and 34.2 percent, respectively. 
Adding Romania is like adding Ukraine and Moldova. How would their 
inclusion impact national security?

Finally, this bill does not go far enough to protect U.S. borders.

The bill requires the development of an air exit system, but it does 
nothing to track who comes and goes by way of our land and sea ports.

It also requires the Department of Homeland Security to track how 
many people overstay their visas, but it does not require them to use 
this information to determine who can participate in the program.

For example, even if we learn that one out of four Lithuanian 
visitors never returns to Lithuania when their visa expires, Lithuania 
could still participate in the Visa Waiver Program.

Again, experts estimate that between 30 percent and 40 percent of 
those undocumented people living in the U.S. today are here because 
they ignored the time limits on their visa and just never went back 
home.

At a time when this country is torn about how to handle the 12 
million undocumented people currently living here, we must consider who 
plays by the rules when we talk about who participates in the program.

If a high number of travelers from countries overstay their visas, 
then those countries should not be allowed the benefit of permitting 
their nationals to enter the U.S. without a background check and a 
consular interview.

The amendment I am proposing today offers a way to limit the 
expansion of the Visa Waiver Program in light of our immigration and 
national security concerns.

The amendment I am offering would increase the visa rejection rate 
under the current law from 3 percent to 10 percent for countries that 
agree to these enhanced security measures.

The result is that countries such as South Korea, 3.6 percent, 
Taiwan, 3.1 percent, Estonia, 7.1 percent, and the Czech Republic, 9.4 
percent could be eligible to participate in the program provided they 
pass the security requirements this bill imposes.

Then, once the U.S. has statistics on which foreign nationals 
regularly overstay their visa, the government should use those 
statistics to decide who can participate in the program.

My amendment would require the Departments of Homeland Security and 
State, in consultation and with the approval of Congress, to set a 
meaningful


overstay rate once they have that data. Then countries with a proven 
track record--those with nationals who go home when they are supposed 
to go home--could be eligible for the program.

The answer is not to entirely remove the visa rejection rate, 3 
percent, as this bill does with no suitable replacement, but to enact a 
fair system across the board that recognizes that the screening of 
those who wish to come to our country is important, both for the 
security of the country, as well as to ensure that visitors do what 
their ''visa waiver'' provides--and that is to return to their country 
of origin at the end of the 90-day period.