# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `08b5b606325f5218d032707658e68f18`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I will vote for these amendments 
today. They provide necessary funding for our troops, create new 
educational benefits for our veterans, and address domestic and global 
needs.

The war funding will pay for operations in Afghanistan and Iraq for 
the rest of this year and half of 2009. I support this because it will 
make it possible to provide the equipment, ammunition, fuel, and other 
supplies needed by our brave men and women serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan who have shown such extraordinary skill, determination and 
endurance in answering their call to service.

I opposed the Bush Administration's rush to war in Iraq, and voted 
against the resolution that authorized the President to send our armed 
forces into that country on the theory that this was necessary in order 
to deprive the Saddam Hussein regime of weapons of mass destruction. 
So, I understand why some of my constituents who also opposed the war 
want Congress to reject this funding measure.

And I could not agree more that the record of the current 
Administration demonstrates an


enormous failure of leadership. We desperately need new leadership that 
will bring to a close our open-ended military engagement in Iraq and 
will refocus on the very urgent tasks of reducing the terrorist threats 
in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

But I am convinced that voting to deny funds to provide our men and 
women in uniform the resources they need to do their jobs is not the 
right way to bring about the change we need--especially because 
President Bush has shown he is prepared to veto funding for the troops 
rather than agree to change course.

This bill also improves veterans' educational benefits to more 
closely resemble the GI Bill of Rights that made it possible for so 
many World War II veterans to go to college. The GI Bill of Rights 
helped make possible the postwar growth of the middle class that was 
one of the greatest achievements of the Greatest Generation. Some have 
complained about the cost of providing similar benefits to those who 
are serving today. But to put those costs into perspective, we should 
remember that so far our spending for military activities in 
Afghanistan and Iraq has exceeded $800 billion.

By all indications, this bill will not be vetoed. Compromises were 
made on all sides to make it acceptable to the White House and the 
leadership of both parties. Of course, compromise means that everyone 
gives up something.

So there is good news: The bill addresses the needs of our soldiers 
and provides enhanced educational benefits for our veterans--but also 
extends unemployment benefits to help laid-off workers, provides relief 
for the thousands of people flooded out of their homes in the Midwest, 
and prevents the implementation of new rules that would increase the 
cost of healthcare, among other provisions. But there also is bad news: 
The bill does not include all the important policy provisions included 
in the first version of this bill, among them a requirement that our 
troops begin to redeploy from Iraq, a reminder to Iraq's government 
that U.S. troops will not remain in Iraq indefinitely.

I'm disappointed that the bill gives the President most of what he 
wants in Iraq spending without any significant policy constraints. 
Congress has tried and failed to include such constraints in previous 
spending bills, and here we have failed again. What we need is 
consensus here at home on a path forward in Iraq, but as long as the 
architect of our current Iraq policy occupies the White House, I'm 
afraid that won't happen.


I hope that the next Administration will give serious consideration 
to the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group as a framework for 
consensus. Those recommendations would be accomplished by legislation I 
introduced last year, which would support a course of escalating 
economic development, empowerment of local government, the provision of 
basic services, a ''surge'' in regional and international diplomatic 
efforts, and lightening the American footprint in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I voted against war in Iraq because, as I said then, the 
Bush Administration was rushing to war without necessary international 
support or a clear plan to prevent the chaos that would follow after 
Saddam Hussein was overthrown. I was concerned a prolonged conflict 
would devolve into civil war. Since U.S. troops entered Iraq more than 
5 years ago, we have lost thousands of our brave service men and women, 
seen tens of thousands more wounded, and spent half a trillion dollars 
in taxpayer money.

Yet the President's mission is no clearer, he has still offered no 
exit strategy, our enemies in Afghanistan have regained their strength, 
and our armed forces have been stretched to the breaking point.

Only Democrats and Republicans working together can find the path out 
of Iraq. I will continue to work with colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle on further steps we can take to change our broader Iraq policy. 
But today, I will vote to provide funding for our troops in the field, 
enhanced educational benefits for our veterans, and assistance for 
Americans suffering through the current economic downturn and the high 
costs of healthcare.