# None
## `08be019c94fb67bff0f4c4fef22fe1e9`
`Mr. REED — 29 February 2008`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, let me commend the Senator from Ohio for his 
very thoughtful and very persuasive remarks about a crisis that is 
gripping almost every family in this country. We are in an 
extraordinarily daunting moment in our history, and I was disappointed, 
to say the least, when our colleagues on the Republican side blocked 
consideration of the Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008. Every 
household in this country is beginning to recognize the specter of 
decreasing house prices, and for many it is not just a looming 
potential, it is a reality, and it is forcing them to consider very 
difficult choices in their own family lives.

We have had a situation over the last 8 years in which the income of 
working families has been stagnant, and in contrast, prices for items 
that are essential, such as energy and food and health care, have gone 
up dramatically. Families across this country have been squeezed by 
flat incomes and rising prices. But there was one point of hope and 
confidence, a foundation, at least, for their hopes going forward, and 
that was the value of their home because it was appreciating. Now that 
has reversed dramatically, and there are estimates that if nothing is 
done, if the administration continues to block efforts through their 
colleagues here in the Senate and the House, we could lose somewhere up 
to 30 percent of the value of homes throughout the United


States, from their peak several years ago to the trough that is 
anticipated. That would mean the loss of $4 to $6 trillion in household 
wealth--a staggering figure. It is a figure that, from a macroeconomic 
standpoint, would have huge ramifications.

But let us step down to the actual effects on a family. What does it 
mean? Well, it means your senior in high school who was planning on 
going to a prestigious college is not going there. They are going to 
find an alternative, maybe a State school or another school, because 
you were going to pay for that, partially, by taking some money out of 
your house, which was worth so much. If you didn't have adequate health 
care, that was the reassurance you had, that if there was a major 
health care crisis in your family--a child or your spouse--that at 
least you could go in and quickly get some money. Now that has 
evaporated. If you are a retiree or about to retire, your plan was 
pretty simple: You had a home you were going to sell and you were going 
to use the profits to help you fund your retirement.

This housing crisis is affecting working families across the country. 
They are now discovering, around the kitchen table, that their plans 
are being frustrated. We have to do something.

Yesterday, when this Senate failed to at least consider moving to 
legislation like this, I think it is a telling indication of the 
detachment from the reality of American lives that the administration 
and some of their colleagues here have.

Today, in my home State of Rhode Island, an added complexity, 
unemployment, is beginning to creep up. And ''creep'' is probably too 
mild a word. It is 5.67 percent, the worst record of unemployment we 
have had since the mid-1990s. That is another blow to the working 
families in this country.

So we must act. One other startling statistic to me is today it has 
been estimated that 10 percent of the households in America are upside 
down, not physically but financially. Ten percent of the homes, the 
mortgage is greater than the value of the home because of declining 
home prices.

Now, what does that mean? Well, not only have you lost your nest egg, 
in many cases you now are in a situation of being tempted to just walk 
away from the home. Why are you making expensive mortgage payments at 
great sacrifice when the home is not worth it?

These are real problems people across the country are facing. It is 
no longer a localized problem. It is no longer a certain section of the 
country is having a bad time, but the rest of the country is doing 
well. Nationwide, for the first time since the Great Depression, we 
have seen housing prices decline. That is a phenomenon that has to be 
dealt with. Ignoring it or suggesting that we are indifferent to that, 
as I think one can assume from the action of yesterday, is, I think, 
not only wrong, it is bad policy. It also is bad policy because the 
sooner we take proactive action, the more effective we will be in 
lessening the consequence of this crisis on working Americans.

We are going to act eventually. This is not going to go away. The 
staggering numbers that Senator Brown pointed to, the estimates that 
there are so many more interest rate resets and so many more people 
will be overwhelmed by these alternative mortgages, these subprime 
mortgages, that is not fiction; that is the projection of the financial 
analysts. It is going to happen.

We have to move now. If we move now, we move deliberately. We cannot 
eliminate some of the pain, but we can certainly lessen it. We also 
have to recognize, too, that we can only help those who are prepared to 
carry and shoulder the mortgage going forward. But I think if we act, 
if we act properly, we cannot only make progress, but we can respond to 
what is becoming an overwhelming cry for relief for American families 
across this country.

In Rhode Island, for example, we have seen mortgage delinquencies 
increase from 6,100 in the third quarter of 2005, to 10,300. Again, 
Rhode Island is the smallest State in the Union. We have 1 million 
people. So these numbers, when you project them to Ohio, are much 
larger. But in my State, we are, unfortunately, seeing unprecedented 
foreclosures.

According to the Joint Economic Committee, the number of subprime 
foreclosures in Rhode Island will total 5,800 between the third quarter 
of 2007 and 2009. We are seeing an acceleration and, in fact, we have 
the dubious distinction of having the highest foreclosure rate in New 
England. There are other parts of the country that are worse, but we 
have that unfortunate distinction.

We are going to see the cost of these foreclosures in Rhode Island 
rise to an estimated level of $670 million from the end of 2007 to 
2009. Those are huge figures from a small State like mine. In fact, 
forecasters are estimating that the foreclosure cost could total nearly 
$104 billion nationwide. But one of the things about these numbers that 
the numbers are growing--I have been looking closely at this crisis 
since last April when I was chairman of the Subcommittee on Securities 
and Insurance. We had a subcommittee hearing on securitization of 
subprime mortgages and the experts estimated that the subprime crisis 
was going to result in $19 billion in losses worldwide; that it was 
over because the mortgages were no longer being issued; that we were in 
a situation that would be almost self-correcting if we just let the 
markets work their will.

Well, that $19 billion in terms of losses to financial institutions 
is now being estimated to be as high as $600 billion worldwide, and the 
losses keep growing and growing and growing.

Again, I think another strong rationale for immediate action, not 
simply letting the market take its course, is we are seeing not only a 
deterioration in the financing mechanisms in the mortgage market, but 
this liquidity crisis is spreading over to other financing mechanisms. 
We have seen financing mechanisms for municipal bonds, for example, 
literally shutting down. There was a technique where municipalities and 
hospitals would, on a weekly basis, reset the rate for their bonds in 
an auction. The auctions have failed. The Port Authority of New York 
just a few weeks ago went from an interest rate of 4 percent to 20 
percent, the default rate.

I have talked to a hospital in my State. I asked them, among many 
other issues, what is happening with respect to their financing. Their 
rates are shooting up because their option securities are not working 
any longer.

This credit crisis, this liquidity crisis, is spreading from 
mortgages to car loans to securitization of credit card receipts to 
municipal securities, and it is slowing down the economy.

Now, the President does not think we are going into a recession. But, 
frankly, most everybody else does think we are going into recession. 
And we have to act, not only to directly respond to this housing 
crisis, but also to pull this country back as quickly as we can from 
this pending recession.


I think one of the most important lines of approach to dealing with 
this problem is bolstering the housing market. That was one of the 
major engines that moved our economy for so many years. If we let it 
deteriorate, if we just shrug our shoulders and say, eventually, it 
will come back, we not only will see a very poor housing market, we 
will see a recession. And it will be more severe and more consequential 
than it ought to be.

Now, the Federal Reserve has cut interest rates dramatically. We, 
very quickly, in a bipartisan fashion, passed a $168 billion stimulus 
package that will help. But I do not think it is going to be sufficient 
unless we make significant efforts to deal with the housing problems 
that are affecting all Americans today.

The administration proposed a Hope Now Plan, a voluntary effort to 
deal with foreclosure problems. And, again, as Senator Brown pointed 
out today, to date 3 percent of potential foreclosures have been 
avoided through this voluntary effort. This is not an effective way to 
deal with the huge problems that threaten the economic well-being of 
this country and all of the families of America. This administration is 
great on slogans but poor on strategy and execution. Just a week after 
I was talking to the Under Secretary of the Treasury about the Hope Now 
Program, I said: Well, do you have a plan B? This does not seem to be 
working.

''No, this will work. We will have the metrics in a few weeks.'' Then 
the administration announced another program. I think it is called the 
Lifeline


Program. Well, we need something more than slogans. We are going to 
need something more than hopeful wishes that everyone will get along 
and coordinate together. We need definite help for the homeowners in 
our communities.

Embedded in the legislation that Senator Reid proposed was that 
specific kind of help: foreclosure counseling funding, CDBG monies for 
communities to deal more comprehensively with the problems caused by 
foreclosures, because one of the consequences of foreclosure is it is 
not just the individual's home, statistical analysis over many years 
points out very clearly that the surrounding homes lose value when 
there is a foreclosure on the block. And if those homes are on the 
tipping point, guess what. They will tip into foreclosure. I do not 
think I have to tell anyone in this Chamber, because we have seen it 
before, that once you have this growing sort of malaise in the 
community, it spreads block by block by block by block until you have a 
community-wide problem of not only foreclosures but of despair.

I am taking, I think unfortunately, an example from Senator Brown's 
State. But I read a few weeks ago about a community in the Midwest, 
either Ohio or Pennsylvania, and it was an old ethnic community. In 
fact, I think the nickname for the community was Slavic Town. There, 
the foreclosures have been so extensive that literally gangs are going 
in and ripping off the vinyl siding, the plumbing. They are taking out 
the copper piping because it has been abandoned, this forlorn 
community, in the heartland of this great country.

A tragic case was a retired gentleman who was trying to protect his 
property which he had worked for all of his life. He was killed by some 
of these marauding gangs. That is here in America. We are just going to 
sit back and say: Well, the market will adjust someday. No, I think we 
have to do much more.

Unfortunately, because of the policies of this administration, we are 
not as well positioned to do what we have to do. Yesterday Chairman 
Bernanke was before the Banking Committee. In response to a question by 
Senator Dodd, he said: Frankly, we are in a worse position today than 8 
years ago to deal with this crisis, the housing crisis. Falling 
productivity, falling value of the dollar--yesterday, the dollar hit a 
new low against the Euro, and I think today against other currencies. 
Surging oil prices--yesterday the price of oil went to $102 a barrel, 
which is translated automatically at the gas pump into higher gasoline 
prices, higher heating oil prices.

These are huge, huge, huge problems. Because of decisions made by 
this administration, we do not have surpluses we had 8 years ago. We 
are committed to a conflict in Iraq which costs $190 billion a year. 
And even with a change in policy, there will be, unfortunately, not a 
dramatic shift in spending in the next several months because it takes 
time to disengage and to change policies.

So we are seeing economic vulnerabilities because of, I think, the 
policies of this administration. We have forfeited the strength we had 
8 years ago to deal with these issues. We understand, too, from looking 
across the globe at other countries that if you do not move promptly 
and aggressively and deal with problems like this, they do not go away, 
they get worse.

In the 1980s, we had a S&L crisis. It took about 2/1/2/ to 3 years 
for, first, the Reagan administration, then the George Herbert Walker 
Bush administration to deal with it. In those 2/1/2/ years, experts on 
either side of the aisle pointed out that the cost of remediation went 
up and up and up. I fear that is the same situation we are going to 
have today unless we deal promptly and immediately with this housing 
situation.

Again, I think the vote yesterday to stop consideration of 
legislation to help deal with this crisis was very short-sighted and 
unfortunate. Now, as I said before, the legislation we would have 
considered, the Foreclosure Prevention Act, of which I am a proud 
cosponsor, deals with, in a very pragmatic way, many of the features of 
the housing crisis that are of immediate concern: the $200 million 
foreclosure counseling, and part of that has to be not only setting up 
the counseling but also outreach. We have to do more of that.


It also allows State housing finance agencies to increase their 
bonds, raise capital to buy mortgages to essentially take out the 
current mortgage holders, renegotiate the terms with the borrower, and 
put them in a mortgage plan they can live with and afford. In fact, the 
President has called for that, but he is objecting to its inclusion, I 
presume, in this legislation. Then there is a change in the Bankruptcy 
Code, which has been carefully tailored so as not to roil the financial 
markets. It would allow a very limited category of individuals who have 
these subprime mortgages to go into bankruptcy court and allow the 
bankruptcy judge to set up a new payment plan. The first criterion he 
or she would have to look at is the fact that these individuals do, in 
fact, qualify for bankruptcy protections, that if there is a 
restructuring of their mortgage loan, they can carry out the terms of 
that loan.

This is not only giving people a chance who don't have the 
wherewithal to take up that opportunity. There is also language in the 
bill that sets the lowest rate charged as the prime rate, plus a 
premium for risk. So this does not allow a bankruptcy judge to take an 
11-percent mortgage and make it a 1-percent mortgage or a zero-percent 
mortgage. There is a very narrowly tailored exception. As my colleague, 
Senator Brown, pointed out, you can do that with a second home. You 
could do that with a farm, if you are in bankruptcy. I don't see why, 
in this particular crisis, we cannot extend that same protection to 
homeowners who have subprime mortgages and need immediate help. I think 
it would accelerate efforts to not only help these individuals in 
bankruptcy, but it would send a strong message to the financial 
community that unless they get engaged with working out these 
foreclosures and mortgages, there is the alternative of bankruptcy 
court which, if they think it is so onerous, then they should be even 
more incentivized to work with borrowers to ensure foreclosure doesn't 
take place and new mortgage terms are negotiated.

An additional element in this legislation is language I suggested as 
a way to prevent a reoccurrence in the future of this type of mortgage 
problem by giving the borrowers, in a timely way before they close on 
the loan, specific information that is essential. The most specific 
information is the maximum payment they would pay under the terms of 
the mortgage. There is a lot of discussion about people who were 
winking at each other across the table, can't afford the mortgage, but 
''I will take it if you give it to me.'' Many people honestly walked 
in, sat down, and thought they were getting a mortgage of 5 or 6 
percent with a payment on a monthly basis of perhaps $1,500 or $2,000. 
Tough to afford, but it was within their budget. But lo and behold, 
years later or months later, that initial teaser rate became much 
higher. That maximum payment should be disclosed. A borrower should be 
able to look at the piece of paper and say: At some point in this 
mortgage, I will have to be paying $2,500 a month. That is the type of 
information people need to know. Frankly, many would say: I can't 
afford that.

There is a suggestion I have heard so often in the debate that we 
would be rewarding families and homeowners who were trying to take 
advantage of a good deal with these subprime mortgages. The impression 
I have, from talking to people in Rhode Island, is that for many 
families, going back 2 or 3 years, they found themselves saddled with 
extraordinary credit card debt at interest rates that could be as high 
as 15 to 18 percent. Why? If you have a health care problem, where do 
you go? The first response is to put it on the credit card. If you have 
to go to an emergency room and you don't have health care insurance, if 
you have an unexpected expenditure, the first thing you do is to put it 
on the credit card. So many families were stuck with a huge credit card 
bill.

Somebody walks in and literally sells them a bill of goods by saying: 
You have 18 percent interest rates. I can put you in a mortgage for 2 
years at 9 percent. Of course, it goes up a little later. The little 
later was not dwelled upon. So for many families, this was not an 
irresponsible, irrational act.


They were buying time, in other words. They were hoping this would be a 
bridge to a better future, that they would get a raise at the job so 
they wouldn't have to depend on their credit cards and, when the reset 
came up, they would be able to refinance. Little did they know that 
many of these subprime mortgages were constructed so there was a 
prepayment penalty exactly at the time the reset took place. So as you 
tried to get out of it, you discovered you would be paying a huge 
penalty.

The point I wish to make is we have families who now, for the last 
almost decade, have been struggling. They have exhausted all their 
options. The last option was their home. Now that option seems to be 
evaporating in terms of financial strain and support. What we have to 
do is respond. I believe that is the nature of Government, to respond 
to the genuine concerns, the genuine expectations of the people we 
serve. I defy anyone in this Chamber to go back to their States and 
talk not just to low-income families but to every family and say: 
Shouldn't we be doing something dramatic, challenging, visionary, and 
doing it immediately with respect to housing? The answer would be an 
overwhelming yes. We should listen to the people of America.

I yield the floor.