# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `08c66c85589df69ace027e4c75b338fb`
`Mr. JONES of North Carolina — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, I am grateful to Chairman 
Skelton and Chairman Lantos for giving me the opportunity and the 
privilege to be part of this resolution, first of all, to thank our men 
and women in uniform for their service and, secondly, to question 
whether the sending of 20,000-plus troops to be policemen in Baghdad is 
the right thing or the wrong thing to do.

I think this has been a great debate, no matter which side of the 
aisle you have been on or which position you have had.

Madam Speaker, I want to say again, as I did 2 days ago, I know we 
cannot live in the past, but I will tell you, my heart has ached ever 
since I went to a Marine's funeral in April of 2003.

Michael Bitz died a sergeant, a sergeant who left a wife and three 
children, twins that were born 2 weeks after he was deployed. He never 
saw them. At the funeral, the wife read the last letter word for word. 
She cried, and I cried too, by God.

Then I started questioning. The intelligence given to the Congress 
and the American people, was it verified? Was it true? Then I started 
speaking out and asking for those who were on the inside, and I am 
going to read this to you today very quickly.



General Gregory Newbold, Marine general, and as far as I am 
concerned, he is a hero because he gave up a third star because he 
could not sit there and see the manipulation of the intelligence to 
send our troops to Iraq, and I quote very quickly from an article that 
he wrote for Time magazine, April 9, 2006.

''Two senior military officers are known to have challenged Defense 
Secretary Donald Rumsfeld on the planning of the Iraq War. Army General 
Eric Shinseki publicly dissented and found himself marginalized. Marine 
Lieutenant Greg Newbold, the Pentagon's top operations officer, voiced 
his objections internally and then retired, in part out of opposition 
to the war.''

I further read from his writing to Time magazine. ''From 2000 until 
October 2002, I was a Marine Corps lieutenant general and director of 
operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff. After 9/11, I was a witness 
and therefore a party to the actions that led us to the invasion of 
Iraq, an unnecessary war. Inside the military family, I made no secret 
of my view that the zealots' rationale for war made no sense. And I 
think I was outspoken enough to make those senior to me uncomfortable. 
But I now regret that I did not more openly challenge those who were 
determined to invade a country whose actions were peripheral to the 
real threat, al Qaeda. I


retired from the military 4 months before the invasion, in part because 
of my opposition to those who had used 9/11's tragedy to hijack our 
security policy.''

He further stated, ''To be sure, the Bush administration and senior 
military officials are not alone in their culpability. Members of 
Congress, from both parties, defaulted in fulfilling their 
constitutional responsibility for oversight.''

These are not my words. They are the words of two-star Marine General 
Gregory Newbold who gave up the third star because he could not stay 
and see what was happening to our military and to this country.

Madam Speaker, I am proud to be part of this resolution. Debate has 
never hurt anyone. In fact, at the Armed Services meeting 2 weeks ago, 
a question was asked, either by my side or your side, Would this 
demoralize the troops? And General Pace and Secretary of Defense Gates 
said, no, it will not; they are smart, they understand. This is what 
freedom is all about is debate, disagreement, and discussion.

Madam Speaker, our troops have done a magnificent job, and they 
cannot afford to continue to be policemen in a civil war. It is not 
fair and makes no sense at all.

Seventy percent of the American people are opposed to this surge, and 
Madam Speaker, I want to read Retired Army Lieutenant General J. 
Garner, the first U.S. official in charge of postwar Baghdad. Madam 
Speaker, he said, ''I don't know that the Iraqi Government has ever 
demonstrated ability to lead the country, and we shouldn't be 
surprised. You'll never find, in my lifetime, one man that all the 
Iraqis will coalesce around. Iraqis are too divided among sectarian, 
ethnic, and tribal loyalties, and their loyalties are regional, not 
national.''

Let's pass this resolution, and God bless our men and women in 
uniform.