---
---

# PRESCRIPTION DRUG USER FEE AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `08e3068a9582d1679b76ddd38de82f69`
`Mrs. CLINTON — 3 May 2007`

---


Mrs. CLINTON. Madam President, I rise to join my colleague and 
friend, Senator Byrd, to announce our intention to introduce 
legislation which proposes October 11, 2007--the 5-year anniversary of 
the original resolution authorizing the use of force in Iraq--as the 
expiration date for that resolution.

As Senator Byrd pointed out, the October 11, 2002, authorization to 
use force has run its course, and it is time to reverse the failed 
policies of President Bush and to end this war as soon as possible.

Earlier this week, President Bush vetoed legislation reflecting the 
will of the Congress and the American people that would have provided 
needed funding for our troops while also changing course in Iraq and 
beginning to bring our troops home.

I believe this fall is the time to review the Iraq war authorization 
and to have a full national debate so people can be heard. I supported 
the Byrd amendment on October 10, 2002, which would have limited the 
original authorization to 1 year, and I believe a full reconsideration 
of the terms and conditions of that authorization is overdue. This bill 
would require the President to do just that.

The American people have called for change, the facts on the ground 
demand change, and the Congress has passed legislation to require 
change. It is time to sunset the authorization for the war in Iraq. If 
the President will not bring himself to accept reality, it is time for 
Congress to bring reality to him.

I urge my colleagues to join Senator Byrd and me in supporting this 
effort to require a new authorization resolution or to refuse to do so 
for these new times and these new conditions that we and our troops are 
facing every single day.

Madam President, I yield the floor.