---
---

# None
## `08e8edfbdb9cc0775cd068c9e54fd998`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 10 January 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. This is not just Democrats. I have not talked to a 
Democrat yet who thinks that escalating this war is a good idea, and 
our new direction is not just continuing down the same war with more 
troops. But I just want to share a few quotes that I did some research 
on and pulled out that I think are indicative of what's going on here.

Colin Powell, as my friend from Florida said earlier, quote: I am not 
persuaded that another surge of troops into Baghdad for the purposes of 
suppressing this communitarian violence, this civil war, will work. 
That is Colin Powell, who basically led us into this mess that we are 
in.

Oliver North said, quote: A surge, or targeted increase in U.S. troop 
strength, for whatever the politicians want to call dispatching more 
combat troops to Iraq, isn't the answer. Adding more trainers and 
helping the Iraqis to help themselves is. Sending more U.S. combat 
troops is simply sending more targets. That is Oliver North. I found 
that in Human Events online.

Major General Don Shepherd, United States Air Force retired: I would 
not even consider increasing troop strength in Iraq. Shepherd, who 
works as a CNN military analyst, offered this analysis of what should 
be done next after he was briefed by members of the Iraqi Study Group. 
He wrote, quote: I would not even consider, again, I would not even 
consider increasing troop strength.

And I will give you one more, as we are going through this. Michael 
Vickers, former Special Forces officer, who


said the security situation is inextricably linked to politics. If you 
can solve some of the Iraqi political problems, the security situation 
becomes manageable.

If you cannot, all the forces in the world aren't going to change 
that, and I found that on the NewsHour with Jim Lehrer on PBS of 
December 12 of 2006.

So this is coming from Republicans. This is coming from Democrats. 
This is coming from people all over the country.