# HIGHWAY TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS ACT OF 2007
## `08fd0aeca92acba7ebb4651f2d9eb7ed`
`Mrs. BOXER â€” 16 April 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, first of all, I make a plea to my friends 
on the other side of the aisle. There are a couple of amendments out 
there. Senator Inhofe and I are anxious to get done with the bill. The 
bill is a mini-economic stimulus. It would release a billion dollars 
worth of projects for important highway and transit programs. It is a 
technical corrections bill that stays within the limits we set in terms 
of spending. When Senator Inhofe and I agree on something, it usually 
covers the spectrum. So we hope we will have a good vote.

I wanted to say something before Senator Barrasso leaves because he 
mentioned the President's goals. The President says we should halt the 
growth of greenhouse gases by 2025--''halt the growth,'' which means 18 
years of nothing. What a pathetic response to a crisis that has united 
evangelical groups, scientists, businesses, and much of the world.

So I am just here to say--I am not going to have a debate with my 
good friend, whom I really enjoy as a member of our Committee, but I 
want to say this gives new meaning to doing nothing. When we have a 
crisis such as we have now and we have a small window to act and we 
wait 18 years, this is not talking about leaving the problems to the 
new President, like he is doing in Iraq. It means we are following a 
recipe for gloom and doom instead of looking at this problem and seeing 
it for what it is--an amazing opportunity.

It is interesting that my friend, Senator Grassley, is here, who is 
so strong on ethanol. Well, this is the kind of thing we are going to 
do so we can get off of fossil fuel. We have other opportunities, such 
as cellulosic. We have new ways of making cars.

I happen to drive a hybrid. It is amazing. I get over 50 miles per 
gallon. I sort of wave at the gas stations because I don't have to go 
there that often. These cars are getting better and better.

We have so many ways, but it is not going to happen if we simply say, 
by 2025 we will halt the growth of greenhouse gas emissions. We have to 
halt the growth very soon. I view it as a great opportunity for an 
economic renaissance in this country. If you look at Great Britain, 
they have cut their carbon emissions by 15 percent over the last 10 
years or so. Their GDP has grown by 45 percent, and they have added 
500,000 new green jobs.

I think rather than being so frightened and meek as the President is 
about this, we should be leading the world to this new great economic 
renaissance. America should be in the front, inventing these products. 
I know the President says he wants to invest in new technology. Unless 
you have a cap on greenhouse gas emissions, unless your proposal 
involves a cap so we get down to what is necessary to prevent 
catastrophe, then you are part of


the problem. You are not part of the solution. You are just making 
believe you are part of the solution.

I don't want to do any more than is necessary. I want to do what is 
necessary to reverse a real, serious, horrific problem for the world. 
As our intelligence community tells us, as our Pentagon tells us, if we 
do nothing, the ravages of global warming will be the cause of wars, 
will be the cause of droughts, will be the cause of famine, will be the 
cause of unrest, and will be the cause of refugees wandering around 
starving to death.

That is why so many churches have joined us, many of the great 
religions have joined us in this effort. We have a great group working 
here. I was a little bit surprised when the President sort of took on 
the Lieberman-Warner bill in his way. He didn't mention it by name, but 
he basically referred to efforts in the Senate and the dangers. Mr. 
President, I have been trying to get to see you on this issue. I have 
wanted to talk to you on this issue. I know the former Prime Minister 
of England, Tony Blair, spoke to you about this issue. He is coming to 
speak to me again. We need to work together. This should not be 
partisan.

Unfortunately, it is. When I and my staff were in Great Britain, we 
were meeting to understand what steps they have taken and how about a 
cap-and-trade system and the rest. What we found out was most 
remarkable. Each party, Labor and Conservative, was staking claim to 
the issue of global warming and saying to the other party: You are not 
doing enough. I turned to my staff and said: Oh, if I have one prayer, 
it is that we have a situation where that happens at home instead of 
this horrible fight. And if I have another prayer, it is that the 
Presidential candidates, Republican and Democratic, will argue over who 
has the best plan. That may happen, and that would be exciting. But I 
do not want to wait until then. I do not want to do nothing. I do not 
want to be part of the problem. I do not want my grandkids to say: 
Where was my grandma? At the moment they had a window to do something, 
they slammed it shut.

I am glad my friend came to speak about global warming. I hope we can 
continue to work together to get him on board in a more aggressive way 
to do more, to do our job, to fulfill our responsibility. We would 
never take our grandchild, put him or her in an infant seat in the car, 
go to a parking lot at the supermarket and leave him or her inside with 
the windows closed and the Sun beating down. We would not do that 
because we adore our children and our grandchildren, and we want the 
world to be better. At least we want it to be as good as it was for us.

We are so lucky. We have lived through such golden years for 
ourselves and our families. We have the American dream. We saw Richard 
Nixon step to the plate and create the Environmental Protection Agency, 
and Presidents, Republican and Democratic, who have come after stand 
up--until now.

I say to my colleagues, we are going to have a moment come June. It 
is going to be a little bit different than today. Today Senator Inhofe 
and I are joined at the hip on this technical corrections highway bill. 
We are not going to be that way on global warming, but I hope we can 
have some bipartisanship, and John Warner has been leading the way. We 
need to do more instead of wait until 2025 to halt the growth of 
greenhouse emissions. That is too late. That is dangerously late. That 
is the equivalent of doing nothing.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.