---
---

# None
## `08ff3cf7985043da3b71b5fa78c84ed5`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 6 February 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H. Res. 943, ''Remembering the space shuttle Challenger disaster and 
honoring its crew members, who lost their lives on January 28, 1986,'' 
introduced by my distinguished colleague from New Hampshire, 
Representative Paul W. Hodes. This important legislation will honor the 
lives, the work, and the memory of the seven men and women who lost 
their lives on the 1986 Space Shuttle Challenger mission. I would like 
to thank Representative Hodes for introducing this bill, of which I am 
proud to be an original cosponsor, as well as Chairman Gordon for his 
leadership in bringing this important and timely bill to the floor 
today.

On January 28, 1986, Ellison S. Onizuka, Sharon Christa McAuliffe, 
Greg Jarvis, Judy Resnik, Michael J. Smith, Dick Scobee, and Ron McNair 
commenced on a risky journey, which only a select few have had the 
opportunity to travel. Twenty-two years ago, these extraordinary men 
and women embarked on what they knew would be a perilous flight, in 
pursuit of knowledge and driven by the spirit of scientific discovery. 
As we stand here today, on the floor of the House of Representatives, 
and commemorate the 22nd anniversary of the Challenger tragedy, I 
believe we should take a moment to recall the purpose to which the crew 
was dedicated. Astronauts Onizuka, McAuliffe, Jarvis, Resnik, Smith, 
Scobee, and McNair represent the best in all of us, and it is in their 
memory that we should devote ourselves to continuing what they began.

Mr. Speaker, as we mourn the tragic loss of these extraordinary men 
and women, I would also like to praise those individuals who continue 
to accept the challenges posed by the exploration of space and the 
dedication of all connected with the manned space program. However, 
while space exploration continues to be a part of our national destiny, 
it is vital that safety is made our first priority, in order to protect 
future astronauts and ensure the tragedy of 22 years ago never happens 
again.

From the beginning, our Nation has recognized the importance of the 
exploration of space and has always taken a leading role in its 
development and exploration. The expansion of our horizons has been 
essential for reasons beyond the technological advances it may provide. 
Moreover, it represents mankind's capability to turn distant dreams 
into a practical reality.

However, safety must remain our first priority. In June of last year, 
we watched as the Space Shuttle Atlantis and the International Space 
Station both experienced serious safety scares. The shuttle's mission 
had to be extended following the discovery of a rip in the shuttle's 
thermal blanket. The space station experienced the failure of a 
Russian-operated computer system controlling a crucial portion of the 
station's navigational system. These recent incidents clearly indicate 
the need for improved safety standards and oversight. Space exploration 
must be coupled with satisfactory safety assurances.

Because of my ongoing commitment to the safe exploration of space, I 
was proud to introduce an amendment to H.R. 3093, the Departments of 
Commerce and Justice and Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
for FY 2008, reaffirming our strong commitment to ensuring adequate 
safety standards for the International Space Station. My amendment 
emphasizes the importance of safety standards by ensuring that none of 
the funds made available in this Act may be used to limit the safety 
provisions enumerated in the recent NASA Authorization Act. If the 
recently delivered recommendations of the congressionally mandated 
International Space Station Independent Safety Task Force are to be 
successful in identifying and mitigating future risks to the 
International Space Station, Congress, together with the 
administration, must firmly reaffirm its commitment to pursuing safety 
as a


top priority. My amendment was overwhelmingly approved, by a vote of 
422 to 3, and accepted into the bill.


At a time where our televisions, newspapers, radios and other forms 
of media are dominated with discussions of presidential nominations, 
housing foreclosures, economic stimulus packages, Middle Eastern 
conflicts and the war in Iraq, it would be all too easy to disregard 
our commitment to the enterprise of space exploration and its value to 
the United States and abroad. Let us look to the sky to honor the 
memory of these fallen heroes who gave their lives for the cause of 
pushing the limit of human exploration for the enrichment of all of 
mankind.

Mr. Speaker, words cannot conveyor adequately repay the debt that is 
owed. We cannot sufficiently articulate the feelings of sorrow that are 
universally felt; however, we can pay those seven souls no greater 
tribute than to carry on the work they believed in and paid the 
ultimate sacrifice for. The contributions to space exploration and 
service these great astronauts provided are priceless and will never go 
unrecognized.

I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important 
legislation, and in so doing, giving the men and women of our space 
program the respect and recognition they deserve.