---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `09042533fc7adf451006e58d12812833`
`Ms. SUTTON — 16 June 2009`

---


Ms. SUTTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New York for his 
leadership on the Rules Committee and for the time.

I rise today in support of the rule and the underlying bill. But as 
we prepare to send the war supplemental to President Obama, I would be 
remiss not to express the deep concerns I have about the bill not 
including an exit strategy for military operations in Afghanistan.

And while I support the supplemental, I am also strongly supporting 
Representative McGovern's bill to require an exit strategy from 
Afghanistan. Fairness requires it. Our brave soldiers need to know that 
we have a plan and that we're looking out for them. And out of fairness 
to the 185,000 soldiers who have been subject to the stop-loss policy 
since September 11, 2001, the supplemental that we're about to pass 
today will provide $500 per month in monthly payments.

And the use of stop-loss has prevented mothers and fathers from 
returning home to their children, from families and friends from 
gathering for the momentous occasions that mark their lives. They have 
gone above and beyond the expectations of their country. So I'm proud 
to have worked with my colleagues to create the Stop Loss Compensation 
program and to ensure its funding in this bill.

And I am pleased that we are also funding the bipartisan CARS Act 
program which Representative Levin spoke of a moment ago. That bill was 
passed overwhelmingly by this House just last week. And while it's 
called the CARS Act, it's about far more than just cars. It's about the 
environment and it's about people. It's about consumers, and it's about 
the millions of families in this great Nation who depend on the 
strength of our auto and related industries for their livelihood, to 
put food on the table, to get health care for their children. It's 
about our friends and our neighbors, and it's about our communities 
that depend on auto jobs for their tax base, to support schools and 
police, firefighters and other city services.

And I'm also proud to say that we have worked on language in the bill 
to allow that SAFER grants that are used to hire firefighters can be 
used now to rehire and retain much-needed firefighters.

This bill provides stop-loss payments for those who protect us 
bravely overseas. It funds the consumer-environmental beneficial CARS 
Act to help shore up the 3 to 5 million jobs in our auto industry that 
Americans depend upon for a living, and it provides for more adequate 
staffing for firefighters who bravely protect us at home.

Mr. Speaker, this is a bill that deserves support. And with that, I 
urge my colleagues to support it.