# None
## `090849d6a628889db8c673d99fa6bedb`
`Mr. REED â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for the kind words. And 
one of my first reactions was a bit of confusion. He referenced General 
Lamb, the British officer in Baghdad, expressing chagrin at the 
proposals to reduce the troop strength of the American forces. He must 
have been beside himself last February when Prime Minister Blair 
announced the reduction of British forces. In fact, Prime Minister 
Blair stated at that time that 7,100 troops would be drawn down to 
approximately 5,500. That is down from a level of 40,000.

So at the time that the British are withdrawing troops, we are trying 
to surge troops. I think the general's peak or discomfort is somewhat 
misplaced with the United States. I think it should more properly be 
directed to Prime Minister Blair.

But let me get on with issues that I want to address, and that is to 
try to clarify from my perspective some of the concepts and terms that 
have been talked about. One is a repeated reference to General 
Petraeus's plan. The President makes it, and my colleagues make it. 
This is the President's plan. General Petraeus was asked specifically 
in his confirmation hearing what role he played, and here was his 
answer.




 I met with the Secretary of Defense a couple days after he 


 took office and before he left for his first trip to Iraq, 


 and we discussed the situation there during that meeting. We 


 subsequently talked after his trip. I also talked to the 


 chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff several times in this 


 period, noting that a population and security emphasis in 


 Baghdad in particular was necessary to help the Iraqis gain 


 the time and space for tough decisions.



 As the strategy was refined, I talked on several occasions 


 to General Odierno. I relayed my support for those levels 


 that General Odierno recommended to the Chairman of the Joint 


 Chiefs. I also supported the additional emphasis in the 


 advisory effort.


This is not a precise quote, but paraphrases his remarks. General 
Petraeus is not the author of this plan. He, like many officers, 
participated, was asked questions; he had great experience. He was the 
head and led the 101st Air Mobile Division in Iraq and was head of our 
training effort. But this is not his plan.

Now, he has accepted this plan. He did that publicly. But this is the 
President's plan. And at the heart of the President's plan is the 
statement he made on January 10 when he announced it.




 I have made it clear to the prime minister and Iraq's other 


 leaders that America's commitment is not open-ended. If the 


 Iraqi government does not follow through on its promises, it 


 will lose the support of the American people and lose the 


 support of the Iraqi people. Now is the time to act. The 


 prime minister understands this.


Well, apparently, the prime minister did not understand, because in 
the intervening months, exactly what the President feared has happened. 
There has been no adequate political progress in Iraq. That is key 
rationale for the increased forces in Iraq. And without this political 
decisiveness on the part of the Iraqis, our military efforts will not 
be decisive. And what has happened because of this failure to act is 
precisely as the President suggested? The American people have 
increasingly become critical of the policy in Iraq. Their support is 
eroding, and similarly the Iraqi people.

So you have a situation now where the logic and the premise for the 
surge, for the troop levels we are maintaining in Iraq, was the fact 
there would be political progress. Since January, to date there has not 
been political progress. I daresay there is very few, if any, of my 
colleagues that will argue that between now and September 15 we will 
see remarkable progress by the Iraqi Government. Indeed, it is 
suspected, confirmed practically, that the Iraqi Assembly will adjourn 
in August for the month. So the reality is that on these critical 
issues of political will and decisiveness and political progress, we 
will know nothing in September that we do not know now.

Given the incredibly complicated political system, the incredibly 
complicated institutional challenges facing the Iraqi Government, the 
notion that we will know more even at the end of this year or the 
beginning of next year is doubtful. Without this political progress, 
all our military efforts will not produce success. That is one reason I 
think we have to begin to change course. We have to begin to adjust our 
effort to protect our self-interests and our interests in the region, 
but no longer be the broker, if you will, for political progress in 
Iraq that does not materialize.

My colleagues have been on the Senate floor and said time and time 
again that there have been deadlines imposed, in many cases by the 
Iraqis themselves, that have not been met. The latest report, just a 
few days ago, suggested these political benchmarks have not been 
issued. Without that, our efforts and the brave sacrifice of our 
soldiers, marines, airmen, and sailors, and every man and woman who is 
out there, are not producing the results we want and need. So we have 
to look again at this strategy.

But there is another factor, too, that I think is important to note. 
I was just in Iraq--as so many of my colleagues have traveled there, I 
have also--and I spoke with General Petraeus directly. He gave me every 
indication that he was not waiting for September; that he had been able 
to make an assessment over the several months he has been in command, 
and he is prepared to make a recommendation--unless I misunderstood 
him--before the end of August.

Now, he might be overruled by the White House in Washington, but he 
has a pretty good sense of what is happening on the ground, and we 
should have that same sense in the Congress.

The other factor that seems so critical when it is put next to the 
issue of no apparent progress by Iraqi political leaders is the fact 
that by April of next year, April 2008, our military forces will not be 
able to generate 160,000 troops on the ground in Iraq. The surge will 
come to an end regardless of what happens on the ground. Unless, of 
course, the President is prepared to


make Draconian personnel changes, extend deployments to 18 months or 
even longer, calling up Reserve and National Guard units that are not 
scheduled to be called up, continuing to rely upon the stop-loss 
practice, where individuals who are eligible to leave the service after 
honorable service are denied the opportunity to leave and in many cases 
are forced to deploy; picking reservists and people who are in the 
individual Ready Reserve, those are individuals who served their full 
active commitment, they have left, many of them have gone on with their 
lives and suddenly they are called up and told get back in uniform, you 
are going overseas.


Without such draconian decisions, then by next April we will not be 
able to field 160,000 troops in Iraq as we are doing today. So the 
reality is this policy will change. The question is, will it change now 
or then and will it change in a way that strengthens the national 
security of the United States? Also, will it change in a way it will 
gain the support of the American people?

One of the factors in a counterinsurgency is the fact that you need 
popular support. That is not something that is a special thing to have 
or a nice thing to have, it is essential to the strategy. We are 
losing--the President is losing--popular support with respect to these 
operations. Without that support, we will not be able to maintain our 
presence in Iraq.

We are seeing already Americans across the political divide, across 
the geographical divide, demanding that this Congress act. They have, 
frankly, little confidence in the President's ability, after all these 
years, to get it right. That is one of the major reasons we are here 
today debating, and we will be tonight debating, because the American 
people are looking for a new direction in Iraq.

The other factor that I think should be mentioned is that, while we 
have pursued a strategy of increasing our forces, our adversaries--and 
they are multiple in a complicated theater of operations--have reacted. 
First of all, they have taken the battle, if you will, the battle we 
tried to orchestrate in Baghdad, and they have spread it around the 
country. They have moved where there are fewer troops. This has caused 
us to spread our operations around. The surge, if you will, the 
additional approximately 30,000 troops, were initially intended to go 
into Baghdad.

If you, as I did, listened closely to General Petraeus at his 
confirmation hearing, if you listened to the President in his January 
10 speech, the concept was Baghdad was going to be locked down. It was 
going to be saturated with American and Iraqi forces. That has not 
happened because our tactical leaders have determined they must get out 
of Baghdad, they must go ahead and pursue some of these elements 
outside of Baghdad, and our adversaries have decided they would rather 
move on than take us in a head-to-head fight.

Time, regretfully, is always on the side of the insurgent. If they 
can survive a day, then that is a day that is in their favor. As a 
result, even with these additional 30,000 troops, there is a question 
of whether they are an adequate number to take over this population 
protection mission the President has announced. The population of Iraq 
is significant. That is another factor I think we have to consider when 
we look at the adequacy of even the President's proposal today.

The Levin-Reed proposal talks about doing what is not only necessary 
but frankly inevitable. We have to begin to redeploy our forces. We 
have to begin to reduce our forces. We cannot sustain this effort 
because of the structure of our military forces.

The President had an opportunity several years ago, in the wake of 
our success in Afghanistan and in the wake of the operations in Iraq, 
to dramatically increase the size of the Army and the Marine Corps. 
Senator Hagel and I came to the floor and we proposed an amendment, in 
2003, to do that. This was opposed by the administration because, if 
you recall, back then this Iraq operation was basically all but over 
and they were getting out.

Now it is very difficult to increase the size of the military forces. 
The Army has missed, for the last 2 months, its recruiting objectives. 
But even if we stayed on track recruiting, we are still in a situation 
where we cannot grow the Army fast enough, the Marine Corps fast 
enough, to maintain indefinitely these forces in Iraq. So the strategy 
must change. If the strategy is not only not supported by our end 
strength, it certainly must change in the light of the American people.

I think the President made a significant mistake last January. After 
an election that sent a very strong signal all across this country that 
the American people wanted change, after the report of the Iraq Study 
Group, wise men and women on both sides of the aisle, with no 
particular special interest they were trying to protect or advance--
they were true patriots coming forward to give their best advice--
suggested that our strategy should be remarkably similar to what we are 
talking about today: the redeployment of the American forces; switching 
missions to training, force protection, counterterrorism; engaging in 
robust diplomatic activity in the region.

Those recommendations were cast aside by the President. At that 
point, if not earlier, the American public began to seriously question 
the direction of his policy in Iraq. Without public support, you cannot 
conduct military operations effectively or for any length of time.

So we face two realities in the United States. Ultimately, the 
inability to generate this force structure indefinitely and the fact 
that the American people are growing increasingly intolerant of our 
operations in Iraq--not our forces there, not those magnificent men and 
women who are fighting and sadly dying each day but our presence there 
and the lack each day, in their minds, of any real progress and the 
documented lack of political progress. It was documented a few days ago 
on the part of the Iraqi Government.

So we have to change. The question then is what is the best way to do 
it? We can debate about this. But certainly this amendment, offered by 
myself and Senator Levin, represents a change. Not a hortatory request 
for further assessment, not a discussion of possibilities or reference 
to another study group but a plan of change.

It begins by initiating a reduction of our forces 120 days after 
passage. That probably will be sometime toward the end of this year, 
given the nature of the legislative process. It doesn't specify any 
specific level of reductions. That is the President as Commander's 
prerogative. It doesn't specify a particular timetable when they can 
leave, who should go first. Again, that is his prerogative. But what it 
does suggest and, in fact, requires is that by April of next year, that 
we have transitioned to three missions--again, missions that were 
supported significantly by the Iraq Study Group: Force protection--we 
always have to protect our forces and facilities in the field; 
counterterrorism, because we never want to give up not only the option 
but the obligation to strike at terrorist cells wherever they may be, 
particularly in Iraq; and third, the continued training of the Iraqi 
security forces.

These I think are missions that are not only critical but they 
advance our national security interests. Again, this fight against 
terror cannot be given up. We have to continue it. To the extent that 
we can create effective Iraqi security forces, mitigates against the 
real concerns that have been expressed on this floor of the aftermath 
of what I think is almost an inevitable reduction in our presence. We 
have to be concerned about that.

One of the vexing things, though, about training the Iraqi security 
forces, is it is relatively easy to teach map reading and squad drills. 
It is relatively easy to teach calling for artillery fire. What is hard 
to teach, because you really can't teach it, is the political 
reliability, with a small ''p,'' the dedication to the country, the 
situation in which professional officers are truly professional. That 
is one of the nagging doubts that everyone has about the Iraqi security 
forces, particularly the Iraqi police, and to a less degree the Iraqi 
Army. There are many factors there, too, but we still have to, I think, 
press forward and try to train these forces.

Our amendment represents the only real possibility of change today, 
of all those that might be discussed on the floor. It represents not a 
precipitous withdrawal. It is a phased reduction to missions that are 
important and are


well within the capacity, I believe, of our military forces to sustain 
over time. They serve, I think, the much broader interests of the 
United States.

All of this, of course, has to be complemented by robust political 
activity, diplomatic activity in Iraq and around the region, something 
the President has been woefully lacking in his pursuit of, over the 
many months we have been engaged. We have to make the case--it is 
difficult to make, but we have to make the case to the neighbors, 
particularly, that an Iraq that becomes this caldron of instability and 
chaos that some of my colleagues fear--and, frankly, that we have to at 
least anticipate, in terms of our diplomacy and some of our military 
preparation--that this situation would be detrimental to them as much, 
if not more, than to us.

A chaotic, turbulent, anarchy on the border of any country spells 
serious problems for that country. That case should begin to be made 
immediately, not only by our diplomats but by the international 
community.

We suggest, also, we have to try again to involve others in this 
effort; not just the United States and Great Britain but others, the 
international actors. They, too, I think have an interest in a stable 
region, a stable Iraq.

It has been discussed on this floor that al-Qaida is sitting back and 
hoping we leave. It is an interesting concept because there is some 
contradictory evidence. Ayman Zawahiri, who is the second in command of 
al-Qaida, was quoted recently as suggesting that our departure would 
actually be something that would cause them some concern. Not because 
they don't wish us ill, they certainly do. Not because today they don't 
continue to try to attack us. But because they believe our presence in 
Iraq, in his words as translated, is a ''historic trap,'' that we are 
trapped there and that they can use their forces there--not the al-
Qaida elements but all the sectarian groups, some of them operating 
against us because we are there--they can use these forces to attack 
our troops, diminish our presence, and effectively continue to apply 
pressure on us.

I think there is a suggestion there that our departure might, in 
fact, help us in our overall strategy. It certainly will help us to 
counteract the image which the propagandists, the Zawahiris of the 
world present, that the United States is committed to destroying the 
Muslim community by imperialistically invading holy territory. We are 
in a battle of ideas ultimately, and we are not doing a very good job 
because what they are able to show throughout the entire Islamic world 
is our forces in Iraq and our forces in Afghanistan but particularly in 
Iraq and try to validate their claim, their propaganda, that is why 
they exist, to resist us.

In the course of our strategy going forward, one should think at 
least about the efficacy of our presence there, not in terms of a 
bulwark of security in Iraq but as a way that we, in fact, are playing 
into the hands of many of these Iraqi terrorists, these international 
terrorists.

One of the other aspects we face as a reality on the ground is the 
complex situation in Iraq. Too often I think the President and others 
try to simplify this as this battle for Iraq is the central front in 
our battle against al-Qaida. I would argue the central front in our 
battle against al-Qaida is somewhere in Pakistan. That is where bin 
Laden is, where Zarqawi is, that is where it is reported that hundreds 
of Iraqis and others, Europeans, Chechens, are training to be jihadist 
terrorists across the globe. But regardless of where the central front 
is, the issue I think we have to recognize and grasp is that our 
presence in Iraq is something we cannot sustain indefinitely.

We have to focus, I think, on the other threats, focus more 
diligently on these other threats. Now, we have a situation in Iraq, a 
complicated situation of Kurds, Shia, and Sunni, together with 
criminals, together with terrorist elements, al-Qaida. Too often, as I 
said, we try to make the point it is just about al-Qaida.

We have made progress in Anbar Province because in that Sunni region, 
the Sunni tribal leaders have united against al-Qaida. But that does 
not define the most decisive factor in Iraq, and that is the conflict 
between the Sunni community and the Shia community; a community on one 
hand, the Sunnis, who feel profound entitlement, and on the other hand, 
the Shia, who feel a profound sense of paranoia.

I think we have to ask ourselves seriously, will that profound 
conflict between the two communities be resolved in 30 days, on 
September 15; will it be resolved in a week; more than that; October 1; 
will it be resolved 6 months from now?

It has lasted for hundreds and hundreds of years. It is the fuel that 
is generating the conflict we see in Iraq today. Without the political 
steps of the Iraqi Government leaders at least to attempt to deal with 
this issue, our presence will not deal with--I think in the short 
term--the solution.

Senator Levin and I have proposed what I believe is the most 
practical, feasible, realistic policy we can pursue today in Iraq; 
indeed, as I suggest, a policy which perhaps not in the same terms but 
in the same substance will inevitably be the policy of this country. I 
hope today, though, we can take decisive action to move to our bill, 
avoid a filibuster, to vote up or down and move forward with a new 
direction for Iraq, a new direction for our country.

I note the presence of the senior Senator from West Virginia.

I yield the floor.