# COMPACTS OF FREE ASSOCIATION AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `0919747de8fd9e841cd67be70f5f3c18`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
resolution, and I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I would first like to recognize a distinguished colleague and dear 
friend of mine, the gentlelady who currently chairs the Subcommittee on 
International Affairs, the gentlelady from the Virgin Islands, Mrs. 
Donna Christensen, for introducing this legislation.

This bill makes conforming, clarifying, and technical amendments to 
the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003, which are 
important to ensuring that we maintain our obligations under the act to 
our friends in Micronesia.

This bill also approves agreements made pursuant to the act which 
determines how disaster relief will be handled for the Federated States 
of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.

In addition, Mr. Speaker, through amending the Compact of Free 
Association, this legislation before us today transfers excess military 
equipment to friendly foreign governments for their legitimate defense 
needs. It is a strong statement of trust and cooperation from the 
United States when we transfer excess U.S. military naval vessels.

While excess to our own needs, these refurbished vessels conserve 
significant and deeply appreciated roles in the navies of the recipient 
nations.

Mr. Speaker, this bill also authorizes the transfer of excess U.S. 
naval vessels to three of our most important friends and allies, 
Turkey, Lithuania and Taiwan.

As my colleagues well know, Turkey is one of our most valued NATO 
members, and is one of the United States' closest allies. Turkey serves 
as one of the most important conduits for the transit of supplies to 
our forces in Iraq. The transfer of these missiles, two guided missile 
frigates and two minesweepers, will again reinforce our close 
relationship with Istanbul and our common commitments to each other's 
security needs.

Lithuania has been a staunch U.S. ally in the global war on terror. 
It makes an outside contribution to global security, contributing 
troops to military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, and the leading 
provincial reconstruction team in Afghanistan.

The two minesweeper vessels in this bill will allow Vilnius to clear 
leftover sea mines from the two world wars in the Baltic Sea and 
supports Lithuania's commitment to NATO's Mine Counter-Measures Forces 
North mission.

Taiwan is a thriving and energetic democracy. Our two nations share a 
complex web of economic, political, and strategic ties that only 
deepens over time. Taiwan is a bulwark of democracy in the Asia-Pacific 
region, and we must do all we can to further strengthen our political, 
security and economic ties. This bill authorizes the sale of two 
minesweepers to Taiwan.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.