---
---

# None
## `091a836b27ab758c39fa0cbdb327437e`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I appreciated the gentleman from Florida's comments. He spent a great 
deal of time trying to compare Iraq to Afghanistan. I would remind my 
colleagues that Iraq and Afghanistan are very, very different 
countries, different cultures, different levels of education and a 
different history of centralized government. In Afghanistan, there is 
no tradition, there is no history of a centralized government. 
Comparing Iraq to Afghanistan is not comparing apples to oranges. It's 
like comparing apples to Volkswagens. There is no comparison. And we 
could have a debate about Iraq, but that should be on a separate day, 
and we could talk about whether there were any weapons of mass 
destruction; but today we're here talking about Afghanistan.

I think this is important, and it's an important discussion because 
this Congress, with the exception of a few amendments that got very 
little time, has not had a debate or a discussion in this Chamber on 
Afghanistan since after September 11, 2001. And our policy has changed 
in a number of different ways over those years, and we still have not 
had a debate or a discussion on Afghanistan.

So today, hopefully, we will. And my hope is that in this Chamber, 
where lots of Members talk all the time and very few Members listen, 
that this may be a day for Members to listen. It is important that we 
get this right, especially for the men and women who we have deployed 
over there.

At this time, Mr. Speaker, I would like to yield 2/1/2/ minutes to 
the gentlewoman from Maine (Ms. Pingree), a member of the Rules 
Committee.