---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF NAVY AND MARINE CORPS
## `091a8accca5dfa74afdc20501d8f08f3`
`Mr. JONES — 20 January 2010`

---


Mr. JONES. Mr. Speaker, 8 years ago I introduced a bill that would 
rename the Department of the Navy to be known as the Department of the 
Navy and Marine Corps. This bill has passed the House for 8 years in 
what is called


the armed services bill. It has been supported by the former Armed 
Services chairman, Duncan Hunter, and is now being supported by the 
current chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Ike Skelton.

For 8 years, the Senate has said ''no'' to the Marine Corps, that you 
do not deserve this recognition. Mr. Speaker, I think that's very sad. 
This year I am pleased to say to the House that with the help of 362 
House Members who have joined me in legislation to rename this 
Department to be known as the Department of Navy and Marine Corps, and 
with the help of Chairman Ike Skelton, we are hoping to send this bill 
to the Senate and let the Senate debate and think about the importance 
of honoring one fighting team.

Whenever we've held hearings on the Armed Services Committee, the CNO 
of the Navy, an admiral, and the commandant of the Marine Corps are 
there together saying, We're one fighting team. Well, if you're one 
fighting team, why don't you do what the Navy football team does, and 
that is to say, You both are recognized.

Mr. Speaker, I want to hold up a jersey from the Navy football team 
that I received, and this is the jersey of this year's team. I want to 
congratulate the team. They've had an excellent season. They've won a 
bowl, and I am very proud of them. On the left sleeve of the jersey is 
the Marine emblem, and on the right sleeve of the jersey is an anchor.



They understand at Annapolis that they are one fighting team, in this 
case a football team.

Mr. Speaker, a couple of other points I would like to make before 
closing. There are many medals that are named Navy and Marine Corps, 
such as Navy and Marine Corps Medal, Navy and Marine Corps Commendation 
Medal, Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal, Navy and Marine Corps 
Good Conduct Medal, Navy and Marine Corps Expeditionary Medal, and Navy 
and Marine Corps Recruiting Service Ribbon.

And, Mr. Speaker, in 1959, the football field at Annapolis went from 
being known as the Navy Memorial Stadium to the Navy and Marine Corps 
Memorial Stadium.

Mr. Speaker, on a very serious note why this is so important, it is 
not only symbolism, but I am showing to my left an actual letter that 
was sent to the wife of a Marine captain who was killed in Iraq. This 
is a duplication of the letter. It says: The Secretary of the Navy, 
Washington, D.C., Navy flag extends its condolences to the marine's 
wife. If this becomes law, Mr. Speaker, what the condolence letter 
would then say, the Secretary of the Navy and Marine Corps, Navy flag 
and Marine flag extends its condolences.

It is time that the Senate follows the House and let's do what is 
right for the Marine Corps and give them the proper respect. Let's make 
them part of the family and part of one fighting team, the Navy and 
Marine Corps.

God bless our men and women in uniform; God bless their families; God 
bless the families who have lost loved ones in Afghanistan and Iraq; 
and may God continue to bless America.
