---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `091c1a10a7ae4bf19a8c5e09445e1684`
`Mr. SERRANO — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. SERRANO. It is time for us, as a Congress, to have this long 
overdue discussion on our involvement in Afghanistan. According to the 
War Powers Resolution, we have a role to play; and it is time that we, 
as a Congress, exercised our authority. Whether you agree or disagree 
with the escalation in Afghanistan, we need to debate it. We need to 
vote on it, and we need to make a decision. We must not give up the 
powers that we were given in the Constitution.

In the wake of 9/11, I did support a military response to the direct 
threat that Afghanistan posed to our Nation. I believed then that it 
was the correct response, and I believe now that it was in concert with 
our NATO allies. Nine years later, I believe that Congress has the duty 
to reevaluate America's involvement in a war that seems to have gotten 
bogged down, with very few signs of success. I believe that had we not 
taken our focus off Afghanistan in order to invade and occupy Iraq, we 
would not be in the situation we're in today. But pressing ahead 
without regard to our Nation's best interests and ignoring Congress' 
war powers prerogative is the wrong course.



Let us be clear: We cannot tolerate the presence of terrorists 
seeking to harm our Nation anywhere in the world, but we must ask 
ourselves if long-term occupations are the correct answer to this 
threat. We must also be clear in our analysis of our situation in that 
country. We have a partnership with a government that seems to be 
increasingly unstable, corrupt and almost completely incapable of 
maintaining control over vast stretches of the country.

We seem unable to eradicate the Taliban enemy. They scatter before 
our troops into lawless regions and then return once our troops leave. 
Without an effective government in Afghanistan, it's hard to see this 
pattern changing, as the local population cannot count on the Taliban 
ever being gone for good.

This is a costly war without an end in sight. It's a costly war to 
our brave soldiers and to their families. It is costly because 
resources desperately needed to feed the hungry, to find a way forward 
on health care reform, and to fix our failing schools are being 
redirected to an effort whose success is questionable.

Here at home, we have had precious little debate over this war. We 
have seen our troops' numbers rise to above those in Iraq, and yet we 
have no real benchmarks or goals after which we can leave. We continue 
to spend massive amounts of money to maintain the occupation of both 
countries; and worst of all, we ask our brave men and women in uniform 
to continue to sacrifice their lives and bodies for this war without 
our Nation sacrificing similarly. The least we can do to honor their 
service is to debate and vote properly on this floor and to ensure that 
our Nation is not sending them into battle without careful thought and 
reflection.

Let me conclude by saying that I am from New York City, the place 
where 9/11 took place; and so I know firsthand the devastation that 
this caused to my own community. Although I supported the effort to 
confront bin Laden and the perpetrators of that act, I cannot now, 9 
years later, agree to an effort which has moved in a different 
direction with different goals.

To the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Kucinich), I commend you for raising 
this painful subject and allowing our Chamber to engage in an honest 
and an open debate. Your courage is beyond anything that other Members 
can ever think of. Our troops and our Nation deserve no less, and 
you've given us the chance to debate this, and I thank you.