---
---

# FOSTERING CONNECTIONS TO SUCCESS ACT
## `091dcd3bad5d5e17bfb3361b63b2acaf`
`Mr. STARK â€” 24 June 2008`

---


Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, I rise to support important progress toward 
reforming our troubled child welfare system. Today, we can come one 
step closer to fulfilling our promise to abused and neglected children 
that we will protect them, heal their wounds, and provide them with 
stable and loving homes.

Anyone who has paid attention to the plight of our half a million 
foster children and the millions of former foster children should be 
angry at how miserably we have failed them. Once a child enters the 
system, we, the government, become their parents. Just like parents, we 
have a moral obligation to act in their best interests. Unfortunately, 
many foster children are cycled from placement to placement and school 
to school, over-medicated with psychotropic drugs, and kept apart from 
their siblings and other relatives who could provide them with support. 
Not surprisingly, former foster youth are not doing well. They are more 
likely to become homeless, incarcerated, disconnected from education 
and the workforce, or using drugs than nearly any other group of 
individuals. Perhaps most shockingly, these youth suffer from post 
traumatic stress disorder at rates comparable to Iraq war veterans.

The ''Fostering Connections to Success Act'' allows us to turn our 
anger into action. This legislation will create permanency for 
thousands of children by providing Federal assistance to grandparents 
and relatives who care for a foster child. In my home State of 
California, a State-funded Program exists to help ease the financial 
burden for relative caregivers. Much needed Federal support will ensure 
that this program will not be zeroed out during the current fiscal 
crisis and will be able to expand to help additional children. This 
bill also recognizes a truth that is obvious to any parent: turning 18 
does not mean that a young person is ready to live on their own. I have 
heard from too many former foster youth that when they turned 18 they 
found their belongings placed in garbage bags with no idea where they 
would live or how they would support themselves. By extending 
assistance to foster youth until age 21, we an help ease their 
transition into adulthood.

Finally, this legislation takes important steps to promote 
educational stability for foster children and better oversee their 
medical care. During committee hearings we heard accounts from 
advocates and former foster youth about children on multiple 
psychotropic drugs prescribed by different doctors that never spoke to 
each other. Many foster children have serious and complex physical and 
mental illnesses. Their care must be coordinated and appropriate. This 
bill requires oversight and accountability to ensure that foster 
children are not overly medicated, but receiving effective, high-
quality health care.

I am heartened that this legislation has strong support from both 
sides of the aisle. It should. These are our children and we should 
provide them with the same level of support we provide for children 
living under our own roofs.