---
---

# None
## `091f02e14003aaa525af6e3434062950`
`Mr. KYL — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. Madam President, yesterday, I inserted into the Record a 
couple of items. I wish to speak to them briefly now.

The primary item was a letter that had been sent to the chairman of 
the House Intelligence Committee by Attorney General Mukasey and 
Admiral McConnell, the Director of National Intelligence. It was a 
letter that tried to explain the problems we are having in gathering 
intelligence on terrorists as a result of the lapse of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act provisions, the so-called Protect America 
Act.

What we are debating right now is a resolution that focuses on when 
and how we should leave Iraq. Presumably, the next resolution we will 
be debating focuses on developing a strategy to fight al-Qaida. Most of 
us appreciate the fact that the best way to deal with terrorists, the 
very first thing we should do is to have in place a good intelligence-
gathering capability, primarily in understanding the communications 
that terrorists are having with one another abroad.

The reason that is the No. 1 part of a strategy in dealing with 
terrorists is that unlike a war in which we are fighting an enemy with 
uniforms representing another country, these terrorists are shadowy 
characters who live anywhere in the world, who travel all around, who 
get together in cells every now and then and plan some kind of activity 
which is designed to terrorize, whether in London or Spain or Malaysia 
or the United States or wherever.

In order to fight the terrorists, we first want to understand what 
they are up to and then prevent it from occurring.

If we are having to react to a terrorist attack after it has 
occurred, we are in a very bad situation.

We created the Department of Homeland Security, and we have a lot of 
different plans and procedures for dealing with an attack after it has 
occurred. But in many respects, then it is too late.

So in this war against these radical Islamists, these terrorists who 
would kill anywhere they can and target innocent people, the very first 
thing we want to do is to be able to have good intelligence on that 
activity.

We collect intelligence in a variety of ways, but in modern times, 
one of the best ways to collect intelligence is by intercepting 
communications. There are a variety of means by which that is done. One 
of the things the Congress did was to develop a law that provides 
protection to American citizens and others to ensure that this 
intelligence collection does not impinge on our civil rights. We do not 
want to have the Government eavesdropping on us, and that is 
appropriate for us to ensure.

The problem is, because technology has outpaced the law back when it 
was written in the 1970s and technology now enables us to do electronic 
intercepts against foreign targets through some very sophisticated and 
new means, the law that set up the process for getting approval to do 
that takes far too long, it is far too complicated and, in fact, the 
bottom line is it just plain does not work. It is ''paperwork in an 
electronic era'' kind of comparison.

So the President came to the Congress and said: You have to get a new 
way of doing this activity that enables us to utilize this new 
technology we have to intercept these communications. And last August, 
we passed the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, the FISA law--it 
has another acronym, Protect America Act--which enables us to utilize 
this new technology and also, importantly, to provide that the 
telecommunications companies that work with us do not have to worry 
about somebody suing them because they are helping the U.S. Government 
collect intelligence.

The law we passed had two problems. No. 1, it expired after 6 months 
because some in the Congress felt they wanted to take another look at 
it; and, secondly, it did not have liability protection for these 
telecommunications companies for the previous work they had done for 
us. It was only for the work going forward. The telecommunications 
companies essentially said to the U.S. Government: We are not going to 
continue to do this work for you unless you can ensure we are not going 
to get sued and that the lawsuits that are currently pending go away.

I am oversimplifying. The lawsuit said: You shouldn't have done what 
you did because the U.S. Government shouldn't have been engaged in this 
kind of surveillance.

That is not the fault of the telecommunications companies. They were 
simply doing what the Government asked them to do. They were a 
volunteer to provide their services, their very essential services, to 
help us collect this intelligence. As with any other volunteer, you 
should not get sued just because you stopped to help somebody along the 
side of the road who got hurt in an accident. The same thing is here. 
The Government asked them to volunteer their services to help collect 
this intelligence, and they should not be sued. But lawyers being what 
they are filed some lawsuits, and those lawsuits need to go away.

The President said: When you revise the law and pass it in February 
of 2008, make sure you have liability protection not only going forward 
but also for the suits that have already been filed. Sure enough, the 
Intelligence Committee in the Senate, by a bipartisan vote of 13 to 2 
or 12 to 2--but a very strong bipartisan vote--agreed to extend the law 
for another 6 years and add the retroactive liability protection, 
precisely what is needed.

However, when the bill was sent over to the House of Representatives, 
the House Democratic leadership said: No, we are not going to take this 
up and promptly went on the recess that we just got back from, a 12-day 
period in which Congress was not in session. During that period of 
time, the law lapsed and General Mukasey and Admiral McConnell in this 
letter made it clear that during that period of time, we lost 
intelligence that could be very meaningful to us. We don't know whether 
it is or not because we lost it. We could not collect it. But the kind 
of intelligence that we have been collecting under this program has 
been very helpful for us to know what these terrorists are up to so 
that we can prevent attacks.

We are now in a situation where we are not able to commence certain 
intelligence gathering. In addition, and perhaps more important in the 
long run, we have not done anything to solve the problem of these 
lawsuits, the retroactive liability, with the result that, as they 
write in this letter, the telecommunications companies are becoming 
increasingly concerned about their ability to continue to help us. They 
are all responsible to their shareholders, and their shareholders do 
not like to see their company is getting sued. It reduces the value of 
the company. It creates problems and costs. When they try to do 
business with other companies, the other companies say: Wait a minute, 
are you involved in these lawsuits? If so, we don't want to enter into 
a new contract with you.


They work with companies all over the world. A lot of these companies 
are concerned that American telecommunications companies are going to 
have this kind of exposure, and they don't want to get involved in it.

It can hurt business substantially, as a result of which some of 
these companies have conveyed to our intelligence community their 
distress, anxiety, and concern about continuing to participate in this 
program.

Fortunately, through negotiations, according to this letter, 
companies are still working with us. They are still participating, but 
without them we have no program. This is not something the U.S. 
Government can do on its own. This is something that only works if all 
of the companies that provide our telecommunications services are 
working with us.

So we have to act pretty soon or we could well be in a situation 
where the very companies that are critical to the operational success 
of this program decide that discretion is the better part of valor on 
their part and they are just not going to be able to continue to help 
us. At that point, we have lost one of the most important intelligence-
gathering operations in this war against terrorists.



I want to go back to the days following September 11, 2001. There was 
a lot of finger-pointing. A commission was established to try to figure 
out what went wrong. There were a lot of areas identified where we 
should have known better, and had we done things differently, at least 
potentially 9/11 could have been prevented.

We found that the FBI and CIA were not talking to each other, and the 
Justice Department had constructed a sort of wall between the two, even 
within the FBI itself which prevented one hand from communicating to 
the other very important information. In fact, there is information 
relating to a couple of terrorists that, had they been able to talk to 
each other, might well have resulted in these terrorists being picked 
up in the United States, people who were directly involved in the 9/11 
attack and, at least theoretically, could have been prevented had they 
been able to communicate with each other.

The bottom line is, retroactive, after 9/11, we could have been doing 
more but did not. That report was very critical of the Congress, of the 
administration, of the intelligence community, of the FBI, CIA, and 
others for not doing everything that could have been done to prevent 9/
11.

If there were to be, God forbid, another terrorist attack on the 
United States and the commission that is inevitably going to study what 
happened would look at the days prior to that event in the Congress, 
what they would find is a House of Representatives that is sitting on 
its hands, that is unwilling to take up the Senate-passed bill. That 
bill passed with 68 Senators voting yes, obviously Democrats and 
Republicans voting yes, a very strong bipartisan bill. The President 
says he will sign it. He said we need it. The intelligence community 
says we need it.

Now it has been 2 weeks, and we don't have a law that enables us to 
engage in this intelligence collection.

What happens if before we get that law there is an attack or even an 
attack after that based upon communications of terrorists that we could 
have intercepted but didn't because we didn't have the means to do it?

There is going to be a lot of finger-pointing, and rightfully so. The 
Senate said we are going to do our part, we are going to pass this law 
so there are no gaps in our intelligence collection.

The House of Representatives continues to sit on its hands. What will 
it take to get the House leadership to take up the Senate-passed bill 
and send it to the President for his signature? I hope it doesn't take 
another terrorist event.

This debate we are having about our policy in defeating al-Qaida and 
how Iraq fits into that is part of an overall debate about our approach 
to the war against militant Islam, the terrorists who strike innocent 
people. As I said in the beginning, the most important thing that we 
can do in starting our effort in the war is to have good intelligence. 
In this case, the best offense is not going to war in some foreign 
country, not bombing somebody, but finding out what these bad actors 
are up to and preventing them from putting their plans into effect.

Partially because it has been quite a long time since 9/11, and 
partially because it is not possible to talk about some of these events 
because they are highly classified, the American public probably is not 
as aware as it should be of the kind of activities that go on every 
day. What happens every day is that there are all over the world 
thousands of would-be terrorists meeting, planning, communicating, 
training, and, in some cases, carrying out their intentions engaging in 
terrorist activity. And because we have had good intelligence 
collection, much of which is done through this electronic interception 
of communications, we have been able to stop specific terrorist 
attacks. Some of these are chronicled by the communications from the 
Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence. Some are 
laid out in reports from the CIA and other unclassified reports--just 
to mention one: an effort to blow up elements of the Los Angeles 
Airport, LAX. There are others. I have kind of forgotten which ones are 
classified and which aren't, so I am not going to describe any more. 
But the reality is, it is going on all the time, and only by good 
intelligence can we find out in advance and then either infiltrate the 
cell, work with our counterparts in another country to round up the bad 
guys, or perhaps, if the plans haven't gotten to the execution stage, 
use our knowledge to gain additional information to track other 
terrorists. In any event, at some point, when it looks as if the plan 
may be about to be executed, either we or our allies have to come in 
and arrest the individuals so that the attack doesn't occur. But we 
can't do that if we don't know what they are up to.


It is unfortunate that a lot of the information about how we collect 
intelligence has gotten out, but it is fortunate that we have companies 
in the United States that are willing to cooperate with their 
Government because they are in a position to help the Government 
intercept these communications. It just happens to be because of the 
way the modern telecommunications technology now works.

We should be doing everything we can to protect these volunteers, in 
effect. They have relied, in good faith, on the representations of the 
Government that the President had the authority to engage in these 
operations and requested their services. This is not my conclusion, 
this is the conclusion of the Senate Intelligence Committee in its 
report on the legislation we passed. It pointed out that it had 
examined the record and found these communications companies had, in 
fact, acted in good faith. So there is no reason for them to be 
subjected to lawsuits. Unless those lawsuits go away, it is quite 
possible that one by one the companies that are assisting us are going 
to conclude that it is not in their financial best interests to do so 
and that, as much as they would like to, they are simply not in a 
position to continue to be able to do so. That would be disastrous for 
our intelligence gathering.

So, as I said, the fix is the legislation that passed the Senate. It 
is a good bill. It reauthorizes this program for 6 more years and adds 
the one important additional element, and that is the protection from 
liability.

It also adds some additional civil liberties protections, by the way, 
for Americans abroad. One of our colleagues, Senator Wyden, had 
inserted the provision that adds an extra layer of protection for an 
American who might happen to be abroad and find himself or herself a 
target of some of this interception because of a call made to the 
individual or that individual making a call to somebody else who is 
under surveillance and so on. It is a rather rare occurrence, but we 
have provided protections so that a warrant would have to be obtained 
in that circumstance, and Americans' civil liberties would be 
protected.

So no one should be under the assumption here that somehow or other 
reauthorizing this law lets the Government loose to begin spying on 
people. Believe me, there is so much information out there which we 
don't even have the time or the ability to check out that we are not 
going to go out of our way to spy on people on whom we have no reason 
to spy. This is simply a matter of trying to identify those instances 
in which known terrorists, or people who affiliate with these 
terrorists abroad, are communicating with each other.

By the way, importantly, if that communication comes into the United 
States, we want to know whom they are communicating with here because 
that could be the late stages of an operation. That could be an 
indication that there is an element embedded in the United States--a 
terrorist cell, perhaps, that is ready or at least is in the process of 
planning to engage in some kind of attack.

So these are the kinds of things we need to know about and which have 
protected the American public since 2001. It is no accident that 
America has not had an attack on our soil since 2001. It is also no 
accident that, frankly, the number of attacks in other places around 
the world is far less than would have been the case had we and these 
other countries not had in place good intelligence-gathering operations 
and good cooperation, I might add, among our intelligence services once 
we find out something that needs to be acted upon.

So as we debate these resolutions that focus on getting at al-Qaida--
our colleagues on the other side of the aisle are insistent that we 
should be focusing our efforts not on extraneous aspects of this war 
against terrorists but


on al-Qaida--I simply say to all of you that focusing on al-Qaida means 
first and foremost getting good intelligence on what they are up to. In 
today's modern world, that cannot be done without a reauthorization of 
this law that enables us to collect this telecommunications 
intelligence. That is not going to happen unless the bill passes and is 
sent to the President. Every day that goes by that the House leadership 
sits on the legislation we here in the Senate passed and doesn't send 
that to the President is another day of vulnerability. It is a day in 
which we will never get back the intelligence we might have collected.


This is not something where we can catch up. It is not something 
where it is not doing us any harm. As General Mukasey and Admiral 
McConnell pointed out, it is lost information forever. That telephone 
call we might have communicated is not going to happen again. Now, 
maybe a subsequent call will, but we will never have the benefit of the 
communication that occurred yesterday or the day before or later on 
today because we don't have the ability to engage in that collection.

I can't think of anything more important to our national security 
than getting this legislation adopted. It is one of the reasons we 
agreed with the majority leader's cloture petition to debate this 
question of how we should be focusing our effort on al-Qaida, because 
we wanted to ensure that the American people understood what is at 
stake here and understood what is at risk by the House of 
Representatives not taking up and passing the Senate legislation on 
intelligence collections abroad.

Madam President, I hope the House leadership will take this up 
quickly, will get the bill to the President so that he can sign it into 
law and Americans will once again be protected by the most advanced 
techniques and technologies we have.

I see my colleague from Tennessee is here, our distinguished 
conference chairman, and I will relinquish the floor so that he may 
speak. I thank the Chair.