# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `0925671bfc80fe72b129f0040a8c700c`
`Mr. HOLT — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, the House is taking action today to bring some 
sanity back to our military deployment and rotation policies. I intend 
to vote for this bill.

We all know that because of these repeated deployments, the divorce 
rates of military families are up, and the financial burdens faced by 
our Guard and Reserve families have been enormous. While this bill 
cannot address all of the deployment-related problems confronting our 
military families, it would address one of the most glaring: 
insufficient down time and retraining between deployments.

If this bill becomes law, it would mandate dedicated periods of time 
between deployments for all servicemembers. For active duty personnel, 
the intervals between deployments would have to be at least as long as 
the last deployment itself. For our Guard and Reserve forces, the 
interval between deployments would have to be at least three times the 
length of a servicemember's last tour.

Every Member of this House can tell multiple stories they've heard 
from servicemembers or their family members about the toll that these 
multiple, sometimes back-to-back deployments take on our military 
families. Let me quickly relate one story I've heard, one of many 
reasons I'm voting for this bill today.

Bill Potter is an attorney and lecturer in politics at both Princeton 
University and Rutgers University. Just over a year ago, he wrote an 
op-ed in the Trenton Times regarding the situation of his nephew, a 
Marine Corps captain, who had been blinded in his right eye after being 
fired on by an Iraqi policeman-turned-insurgent--one of many Iraqi 
policemen-turned-insurgents that we have trained and armed with an 
inadequate counterintelligence effort by the Iraqi government to weed 
out such bad actors.

Bill's nephew is a remarkable young man. Wounded twice in Iraq on his 
first tour in 2005, recovered sufficiently to go on a deployment to the 
Pacific in 2006 and is now facing the prospect of a second tour in Iraq 
beginning in January 2008--and of leaving his now nine year-old son 
behind for a third time in as many years.

This young Marine--like so many others--has already paid too high a 
price for this President's misguided war in Iraq. This bill, if 
enacted, would at least give our servicemembers and their families some 
real down time between deployments--time to reconnect with each other, 
and time for these gallant Americans to get the rest and refresher 
training that they will need to face the future. It's for all of those 
reasons that I'm voting for this bill, and I urge my colleagues to do 
the same.