---
---

# TAX CUTS
## `09316b98f2c6d03a815c2884fa032997`
`Mr. TONKO — 13 April 2010`

---


Mr. TONKO. Yes. Well, one of my favorite topics is energy. No matter 
where we live, whether it's California, Ohio, Wisconsin, those 
representatives hear what I hear, that we need to understand that we 
can control our destiny when it comes to energy as consumers. We are 
the most gluttonous in the world. And whether that resource is 
developed here in a domestic fashion, which I believe ought to be our 
thrust, or whether it's done through imports that are just not, I 
think, the choice for Americans as we move forward. But, regardless, 
whatever that base of supply is, we need to strive for energy 
efficiency and conservation.

And what I like about a number of the tax situations that we are 
doing in the Recovery Act or in general policy format is that we are 
looking at the big picture. We are putting it into a context that 
promotes sound policy.



So as we expand or continue tax credits for renewables, we make 
certain that we are providing that production tax credit that really 
ignites the efforts to build our supply here domestically. I think that 
is so critically important to not only our energy independence and our 
energy security but our national security.

Just recently I hosted, during our recess for Passover and Easter, 
the only stop in the State of New York made by the bus tour with 
Veterans for American Power. And three veterans just recently doing a 
tour in Iraq and Afghanistan spoke at that event. They call it 
Operation FREE, and they talk about the wisdom of transitioning our 
energy needs to domestic produced, American power. They call this 
Veterans for American Power. They talked about the ravaging on our 
troops done by dollars sent to the treasuries of those unfriendly 
nations that are supplying our fossil-based needs.

So this production tax credit will take us along the message that the 
veterans are sharing. Veterans who have served us in uniform, in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, have said we are not doing the right energy policy. 
This will encourage it with these production tax credits.

Then we provide households--American residents will be benefited by 
these tax credits that will enable them to get as much as 30 percent of 
a tax credit up to $1,500 based on the work that they have done on 
their homes with energy efficient furnaces, with the replacement of 
windows or doors, with insulation. This will be a smart move that will 
enable them through the years to reduce the cost of operating that 
home.

I think this is wise policy and a great tax benefit for our American 
taxpayers.