# None
## `0934a6077669a42b9b5047082d07b854`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, first let me thank my dear friend, Senator 
Salazar, for his comments. They are particularly meaningful coming from 
somebody who as much as anybody in this body strives to bring Members 
together in common causes. I want to tell him how grateful I am for his 
comments but also, even more importantly, how grateful we all are for 
the effort he makes to cross the aisle and bring Senators together on 
important issues of the day.

Last night, I was not able to be present when our bill came to the 
floor. I was chairing a subcommittee meeting which I could not leave. I 
asked a number of colleagues on the Armed Services Committee if they 
could fill in for me, and very graciously and, as always, very 
competently, Senators Ben Nelson and Bill Nelson fulfilled that role 
and responded to that request, and I am very grateful to them for 
having done so. I wasn't able then to present the bill, as a bill of 
this magnitude should be presented, and I will take a few minutes at 
this time to do that.

The Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2008 would fully fund 
the fiscal year 2008 budget request of $648.8 billion for national 
security activities of the Department of Defense and the Department of 
Energy.

The Senate Armed Services Committee has a long tradition of setting 
aside partisanship and working together in the interest of the national 
defense. That tradition has been maintained this year. I am pleased 
that our bill, S. 1547, was reported to the Senate on a unanimous 25-
to-nothing vote of our committee. Additionally, S. 1606, the Dignified 
Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act, which we will be taking up either as 
part of this bill or as a freestanding measure, was also reported by 
the committee on a unanimous 25-to-nothing vote. These votes stand as a 
testament to the common commitment of all of our Members to supporting 
our men and women in uniform.

Our bill contains many important provisions that will improve the 
quality of life of our men and women in uniform, provide needed support 
and assistance to our troops on the battlefields of Iraq and 
Afghanistan, make the investments we need to meet the


challenges of the 21st century, and require needed reforms in the 
management of the Department of Defense.

The bill before us, perhaps most importantly, continues the increases 
in compensation and quality of life that our service men and women and 
their families deserve as they face the hardships imposed by continuing 
military operations around the world. For example, the bill contains 
provisions that would authorize a 3.5-percent across-the-board pay 
increase for all uniformed military personnel, which is a half a 
percent more than the administration's request. Our bill authorizes 
increases in the end-strength of the Army and the Marines--13,000 for 
the Army and 9,000 for the Marines. Our bill authorizes payment of over 
25 types of bonuses and special pay aimed at encouraging the 
enlistment, reenlistment, and continued service by Active-Duty and 
Reserve military personnel. Our bill authorizes payment of combat-
related special compensation to servicemembers medically retired for a 
combat-related disability. We reduce the cost of pharmaceuticals to 
Department of Defense personnel by authorizing the use of Federal 
pricing for pharmaceuticals dispensed through the TRICARE retail 
program.

The bill also includes important funding and authorities needed to 
provide our troops with the equipment and support they will continue to 
need as long as they remain in Iraq and Afghanistan. For instance, the 
bill contains provisions which would add $4 billion above the amount 
requested by the administration for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected 
Vehicles, so-called MRAPs, which improve protection for our troops 
exposed to improvised explosive devices, or IEDs. Our bill fully funds 
the budget request of $4.5 billion for the Joint Improvised Explosive 
Device Defeat Office, while directing that office to invest at least 
$50 million in blast injury research and over $150 million for the 
procurement of IED jammers for the Army.

We invest more than $70 million in research and new technologies to 
enhance the force protection of deployed units, including advanced 
materials for vehicle and body armor, active protection systems that 
shoot down incoming rocket-propelled grenades, and sniper detection 
systems. And we add $2.7 billion for items needed by the Army but not 
contained in the President's budget, including $775 million for 
reactive armor and other Stryker requirements, $207 million for 
aviation survivability equipment, $102 million for combat training 
centers, and funding for explosive ordnance disposal equipment, night-
vision devices, and machine guns.

The bill would also enhance our national security by aggressively 
addressing the risk of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In 
this regard, the bill would increase funding over the administration's 
request for Department of Energy nonproliferation programs by $87 
million, increase funding for the Department of Defense Cooperative 
Threat Reduction Program, CTR, by $100 million, eliminate funding 
restrictions that limit the use of CTR funds, and we expand the CTR 
Program to countries outside of the former Soviet Union.

The bill contains a number of provisions that will help improve the 
management of the Department of Defense and other Federal agencies. For 
example, the bill contains provisions that would establish a Chief 
Management Officer, finally, for the Department of Defense to provide 
continuous top-level attention to the high-risk management problems of 
the Department as recommended by the Comptroller General. I note that 
our Presiding Officer is a member of the committee which takes a 
particular interest in management issues, and the committee on which we 
both serve, the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, 
has been interested in this subject for years, as long as probably both 
of us, the Presiding Officer and I, have been here together. We need a 
chief management officer for the Department of Defense and we would 
establish that office.


We would establish an acquisition workforce development fund to 
enable the Department of Defense to increase the size and quality of 
its acquisition workforce as needed to address systematic deficiencies 
in the Department's purchases of products and services.

We would tighten the rules for Department of Defense acquisition of 
major weapons systems and subsystems, components, and spare parts to 
reduce the risk of contract overpricing, cost overruns, and failure to 
meet contract schedules and performance requirements.

Our bill also contains a provision that would require increased 
competition in large so-called ''umbrella contracts'' awarded by the 
Department of Defense. The Armed Services Committee held a hearing in 
April on the Department of Defense's management of the $20 billion 
LOGCAP contract, under which KBR--until recently a subsidiary of 
Halliburton--has provided services to U.S. troops in the field. There 
is a history of highly favorable treatment of that contractor 
throughout this contract. For example, the company was given work that 
appears to have far exceeded the scope of the contract. All of this 
added work was provided to the contractor without competition. There 
were almost $2 billion of overcharges on the contract, and the 
contractor received highly favorable settlements on these overcharges.

When asked why the Army had waited 5 years to split the LOGCAP 
contract among multiple contractors so as to allow for the competition 
of individual task orders, the Assistant Secretary of the Army for 
Acquisition, Technology and Logistics responded:




 I don't have a good answer for you.


The provision in our bill would avoid these kinds of abuses we get in 
sole-source contracts by ensuring that future contracts of this type 
provide for the competition of task and delivery orders unless there is 
a compelling reason not to do so.

There are far too many provisions in the bill to describe all of 
them, but there are a few more I wish to put some focus on.

Section 1023 of the bill would protect our troops, uphold our values, 
and help restore our image around the world by providing a fair process 
for reviewing the status of the Department of Defense detainees at 
Guantanamo and elsewhere. This provision would require for the first 
time that long-held detainees receive legal representation, provide for 
legal rulings to be made by military judges, and prohibit the use of 
coerced statements.

Section 871 of the bill would require the Department of Defense to 
provide much-needed regulation for contractors operating on the 
battlefield in Iraq and Afghanistan. Over the past 4 years, contractor 
employees have frequently fired weapons at people and property in 
Iraq--including insurgents, civilians and, on occasion, even our own 
coalition forces. Yet we have no consistent system in place for 
regulating the conduct of these armed contractors, or for enforcing 
compliance with those regulations that do exist, that are supposed to 
govern the activities of our contractors we hire. The provision in our 
bill would ensure that commanders on the battlefield have the authority 
they have long needed to establish rules of engagement--as well as 
systems for reporting and investigating incidents involving the use of 
force--for armed contractors of ours in an area of combat operations.

Finally, shortfalls in the care and treatment of our wounded warriors 
came to the attention of the Nation in a series in the Washington Post 
last February. These articles described deplorable living conditions 
for some servicemembers in an outpatient status. They described a 
bungled, bureaucratic process for assigning disability ratings that 
determine whether a servicemember would be medically retired with 
health and other benefits for himself and for his family. A clumsy 
handoff was described and exists between the Department of Defense and 
the Department of Veterans Affairs when a military member transitions 
from one department to another. The Nation's shock and dismay reflected 
the American people's support, respect, and gratitude for the men and 
women who put on our Nation's uniform. They deserve the best, not 
shoddy medical care and bureaucratic snafus.

I am very proud our Armed Services Committee approved S. 1606, the 
Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors, by a unanimous 20-to-0 vote on 
June 14. This bill, which we worked on so closely with the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs, would address the issues of inconsistent application 
of disability


standards, disparate disability ratings, substandard facilities, lack 
of seamless transition from the Department of Defense to the Veterans' 
Administration, inadequacy of severance pay, care, and treatment for 
traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder. It addresses 
also medical care for caregivers not eligible for TRICARE, and the 
sharing of medical records between the Department of Defense and the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.


In consultation with the leadership and with the Committee on 
Veterans Affairs, since there is unlikely to be available floor time to 
bring this critically needed bill to the floor as freestanding 
legislation, it will be offered instead as an amendment to the bill we 
have on the floor now. I will be offering this on behalf of a very 
large bipartisan group of Senators coming from not only both the Armed 
Services Committee and Veterans' Affairs Committee but from all 
Senators, just about, who will be offering this amendment. We owe it to 
our men and women in uniform to take up and pass this important 
legislation.

As of today, roughly 160,000 U.S. soldiers, sailors, airmen, and 
marines are engaged in combat and combat support operations in Iraq. 
Almost 20,000 are engaged in combat and combat support operations in 
Afghanistan, and tens of thousands more are supporting the war effort 
through deployments thousands of miles from home.

While many of us believe the time has come to start bringing these 
troops home, we all know we must provide our troops the support they 
need as long as they remain in harm's way. We in the Nation are divided 
on the administration's war policy, but we are united in our 
determination to support our troops. Senate action on the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 will improve the quality 
of life of our men and women in uniform. It will give them the tools 
they need to remain the most effective fighting force in the world. 
Most important of all, it will send an important message that we, as a 
Nation, stand behind them and we appreciate their service.

Finally, as I did earlier this morning, I note that this bill--a 
bipartisan bill--would not have been possible without the support and 
leadership of Senator McCain, my ranking member, and each member of the 
Senate Armed Services Committee. We owe a special debt of gratitude to 
those who served as subcommittee chairs and ranking members of the 
Armed Services Committee. This bill takes a long time to put together 
and then to mark up. It takes many months to perform those functions 
and many days in the markup process itself.

I also give a special thank-you to our former chairman, Senator 
Warner, who again did yeoman service to make it possible for this bill 
to come to the floor in a bipartisan manner, which it has. I look 
forward to working with colleagues to pass this important legislation. 
I hope we can proceed to the prompt consideration of it, and I hope 
that as soon as we address the amendment of Senator Webb, we are going 
to be able to move on to other amendments.

I yield the floor.