# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `093bdb72c558ae7b95dc04d71b5ea2d6`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 7 March 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to a soldier from 
Kentucky who was taken from his family, his friends, and his country 
much too soon. On April 7, 2004, SSG George S. Rentschler of 
Louisville, in my home State of Kentucky, was on a combat patrol in 
Baghdad when his vehicle was struck by a rocket-propelled grenade. He 
was 31 years old.

For the bravery Staff Sergeant Rentschler showed in uniform, he 
received numerous medals, awards and decorations, including the Army 
Achievement Medal, the Army Commendation Medal, the Purple Heart, and 
the Bronze Star Medal.

Staff Sergeant Rentschler's loved ones will remember him as the 
finest coach, the fastest friend, and the most caring husband and son 
they ever knew. He loved to make people laugh. And he was, as his young 
son, Scott, succinctly puts it, the greatest dad you could have ever 
asked for.

An Army veteran of 10 years, Staff Sergeant Rentschler was raised in 
Louisville. As a kid he loved to play many sports, especially baseball 
and football. He enjoyed watching sports as well, particularly the 
University of Louisville, and he enjoyed the Kentucky Derby as well.

Following in his father Gilbert's footsteps, George was also an avid 
Detroit Lions fan. George's love of sports went beyond watching or 
playing, he was invested and actively encouraging others as a coach. 
''He coached his kids like crazy,'' says George's mother, Lillian.

George got involved with many youth leagues, coaching baseball and 
football. He even coached a baseball team while stationed at Fort Knox. 
Many of those boys came to pay their respects at George's funeral, 
wearing their baseball caps in honor of their coach who taught lessons 
both on and off the field.

George went to Southern Middle School and Central High School and 
graduated from Louisville Male High School. After high school George 
joined the Army. He served as a training officer at Fort Knox where he 
attended a noncommissioned officer's academy. He also saw duty at Ft. 
Hood, Texas; Bosnia; and was stationed in Germany.

George's mother, Lillian, says he especially enjoyed his involvement 
with U.N. missions because he liked going to other countries. ''There 
wasn't any talking him out of it because he loved doing what he was 
doing,'' said Lillian. ''He loved his country.''

By the time he was deployed to Iraq, George was assigned to the 
Army's 1st Battalion, 35th Armor Regiment, 2nd Brigade, 1st Armored 
Division, based out of Baumholder, Germany.

Before shipping overseas, George was lucky enough to meet Rachel, who 
would become his wife. They met in a club in Louisville. Rachel noticed 
George because she thought he had the best manners of anyone there. She 
was so impressed, she got up and introduced herself.

George and Rachel married on September 11, 1998. Over their entire 
marriage, she cannot remember him ever being in a bad mood. George and 
Rachel raised two handsome sons, Scott and Brock. While George was 
deployed to Iraq, Rachel and the boys lived in Germany.

Family time was important to George, and whether it was an elaborate 
family vacation or a casual trip to a University of Louisville ball 
game, he always made time for Rachel, Scott, and Brock.

In George's many coaching endeavors, Rachel often wound up playing 
the ''team mom.'' George told his family often how proud he was to 
serve in the military and that he loved the camaraderie of his fellow 
soldiers. He earned their respect by volunteering for the tough jobs.

George's love of coaching, of bringing out the best in others, 
carried over to his soldiering career. He talked about one day working 
in the Pentagon, to train and educate younger soldiers. And he was 
looking forward to making coaching his profession after leaving active 
service.

My prayers are with the Rentschler family today after their tragic 
loss. We are thinking of George's wife Rachel; his sons, Scott and 
Brock; his mother Lillian; and many other beloved family members and 
friends.

George was predeceased by his father Gilbert. Staff Sergeant 
Rentschler's funeral service was held at the Carlisle Avenue Baptist 
Church in Louisville, and he was buried in Sturgis, KY. At the funeral 
service for her husband, Rachel said of George: ''He died doing what he 
loved.''

I want her and the Rentschler family to know George also died a hero, 
and this Senate honors SSG George S. Rentschler for his life of 
service. And we honor the immense sacrifice he made on behalf of a 
grateful nation.

I yield the floor.
