# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `093b41bff73c6f3f99dfe50a8e40a194`
`Mr. HOYER — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the chairman for yielding.

I want to thank the chairman. No one has worked harder to get us to 
this point in time in a bill that can be signed by the President and 
passed by the Senate. No one has worked harder than David Obey has on 
that objective, and he spent months at it. His staff has worked 
extraordinarily hard.

I also want to thank my counterpart, the minority leader Mr. Boehner 
who just spoke, and thank him for his efforts. This agreement would not 
have been reached without his leadership and his cooperation, and I 
appreciate that.



I also want to thank Mr. Lewis for his work on this effort as well.

Mr. Speaker, this supplemental appropriations legislation is the 
result, as has been said, of a bipartisan compromise that addresses 
critical needs of the American people.

Will every Member be happy with the substance of the two amendments 
that we are going to consider? The answer to that question is no.

Will every Member here get what he or she wants? Again, the answer is 
no. That is, after all, the legislative process.

However, our Nation is at war. We have 150,000 men and women in 
harm's way in Iraq and Afghanistan. Catastrophic floods continue to 
wreak havoc in Iowa and other States in the Midwest. And millions of 
our workers are struggling to make ends meet because they've lost their 
jobs through no fault of their own.

These two amendments that we will consider address these needs, as 
well as others.

The first amendment will provide funding for our troops on the 
battlefield in Iraq and Afghanistan. Each Member will decide how they 
should vote, and their vote should not be questioned on that particular 
amendment.

It is also important to note that the second amendment includes 
important policy provisions regarding the war in Iraq.

First, it prohibits military construction funds from being used to 
establish permanent bases in Iraq. We have addressed that previously in 
this House and overwhelmingly supported that proposition.

Secondly, it requires reconstruction aid for Iraq to be matched 
dollar-for-dollar by the Iraqi Government. With the price of oil being 
what it is, having been told by the administration that the oil in Iraq 
would pay for all reconstruction, that is a reasonable and appropriate 
requirement.

Additionally, the second amendment includes major legislative items 
that the White House has agreed to accept. That is a good sign that 
there is an opportunity to work together when the interests of the 
American people are at stake. We don't always do that. The American 
public is concerned about that and disappointed by that. But this 
night, we have come to such an agreement, and the American public can 
be pleased by that.

Among other things, this amendment expands the education benefits 
that veterans receive under the GI Bill to restore the promise of a 
full, 4-year college education, and allowing servicemembers to transfer 
educational benefits to their spouses and dependents. That was a 
bipartisan agreement. It's something that we can be pleased about as a 
country. It's something that we do, in fact, owe our veterans, and we 
will redeem that promise this night.

Thus, this legislation supports our troops not only when they're 
abroad but when they return home as well.

We know from our experience with the original GI Bill that this 
legislation will foster an educated workforce and a vibrant economy. 
The greatest generation, after all, not only defeated fascism--Charlie 
Rangel, at a later time, fought for our country in the field--but they 
also came home, that greatest generation, and built the greatest 
economy the world has seen. This bill will help in many ways redeem the 
promise for this generation of men and women who are asked to defend 
our country and its freedom. It is the right thing to do. We will do it 
this night.



The President initially indicated his opposition to an extension of 
unemployment insurance. But this second amendment includes a 13-week 
extension for workers in every State who have exhausted their benefits. 
Again, the right thing to do.

The administration also had placed a moratorium on seven Medicaid 
regulations, the result of which would cut services for seniors, 
families, and those with disabilities. The administration, after 
conversation with both sides, has decided and agreed to a moratorium on 
six of the seven regulations. That's good for the States, but more 
importantly, it's good for those whom these dollars will help in a time 
of trouble. This provision has overwhelmingly been supported in this 
House previously, both sides of the aisle, who voted for protecting the 
Medicaid safety net by a vote of 349-62. I am pleased the 
administration has joined us in the support of this effort.

The second amendment also includes critical disaster assistance in 
the wake of devastating tornadoes and floods, which all of us have seen 
on TV over the last few days, as well as funding to strengthen New 
Orleans' levees, as requested by the President, and housing vouchers 
for those left homeless by Hurricane Katrina.

I want to again commend Chairman Obey and Chairman Rangel. Chairman 
Rangel played a key role in getting us to this agreement, and I thank 
him for that.

I also again want to thank Minority Leader Boehner and Ranking Member 
Lewis for their leadership on this legislation.

Some will say this legislation is not perfect. To that extent, they 
can apply that to any piece of legislation that we consider, but this 
legislation is a good piece of legislation. It will provide for our 
troops in the field, while addressing critical priorities here at home. 
It will have my support, and I urge the support of this body for such 
amendment as they believe to be appropriate in the best interests of 
our country.