---
---

# DISTINGUISED FLYING CROSS NATIONAL MEMORIAL ACT
## `094268910ed13047a4d8c92af9c9e1f8`
`Mr. CALVERT — 19 March 2010`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, today, H.R. 2788 passed the House with the 
unanimous support of my colleagues. The bill designates a memorial that 
is currently under construction at March Field Air Museum, in 
Riverside, California, as the Distinguished Flying Cross National 
Memorial.

I am proud that the Distinguished Flying Cross recipients, who have 
received this prestigious medal for their heroism or extraordinary 
achievement while participating in aerial flight while serving in any 
capacity with the U.S. Armed Forces, are closer to having a memorial 
designated as a National Memorial with the passage of this bill.

March Air Reserve Base is adjacent to the location of the memorial at 
the March Field Air Museum. Today at the base there are active 
operational air units providing support to our troops in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, which is why this is an appropriate setting for the 
memorial to the many aviators who have distinguished themselves by 
deeds performed in aerial flight.

I am including in today's Record, my floor statement from Tuesday, 
March 16, 2010, regarding H.R. 2788.

 Floor Statement on H.R. 2788, the Distinguished Flying Cross Memorial 

















Act















Rep. Ken Calvert




 Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2788, a bill to 


 designate a national Distinguished flying Cross Memorial in 


 Riverside, California.



 I am honored to represent the Inland Empire Chapter of the 


 Distinguished Flying Cross Society which is the primary 


 sponsor of the memorial. Last June, I introduced H.R. 2788 


 which would designate a memorial, which is currently under 


 construction at March Field Air Museum as the Distinguished 


 Flying Cross National Memorial. It honors all current and 


 former members of the Armed Forces who have been awarded the 


 Distinguished Flying Cross.



 The bill has strong bipartisan support both from the 


 committee and with 48 cosponsors. The legislation is 


 supported by the Distinguished Flying Cross Society, Military 


 Officers Association of America, the Air Force Association, 


 Air Force Sergeants Association, The Association of Naval 


 Aviation, The Vietnam Helicopter Pilots Association, and the 


 China-Burma Indian Veterans Association. I'd like to point 


 out language in the bill that specifically states that the 


 designation shall not be construed to require or permit 


 federal funds to be expended for any purpose related to the 


 national memorial. Funds have been and will continue to be 


 raised through private means for these purposes.



 Distinguished Flying Cross recipients have received the 


 prestigious medal for their heroism or extraordinary 


 achievement while participating in aerial flight while 


 serving in any capacity with the U.S. Armed Forces. There are 


 many well-known people that have played a vital role in the 


 history of military aviation and have received the award. 


 This renowned group includes: Captain Charles L. Lindbergh, 


 former President George H. W. Bush, Brigadier General Jimmy 


 Doolittle, General Curtis Lemay, Senator McCain, Jimmy 


 Stewart and Admiral Jim Stockdale, to name just a few.



 The March Air Reserve Base, which hosts the C-17As of the 


 452nd Air Mobility Wing is adjacent to the location of the 


 memorial at the March Field Air Museum. When completed, 


 visitors will be able to witness active operational air units 


 providing support to our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, 


 which is an appropriate setting that honors the many aviators 


 who have distinguished themselves by deeds performed in 


 aerial flight.



 I'd like to thank those who have worked tirelessly to 


 ensure this memorial is built and is properly designated in 


 honor of the distinguished aviators that have served this 


 great Nation. In particular, I'd like to recognize, Jim 


 Champlin, with the loving support of his wife Trish, who 


 recently passed away, who have been instrumental in this 


 effort.



 Again, I hope you will join me in supporting the 


 designation of the National Distinguished Flying Cross 


 Memorial at the March Field Air Museum and H.R. 2788.
