---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `096fa7d8992a9a66f5a0ede5bb983fde`
`Mr. BYRD — 17 September 2008`

---


Mr. BYRD. Madam President, I regret that again this year I must vote 
against the National Defense Authorization Act. I support many of the 
provisions in this bill, which authorizes the activities of the 
Department of Defense, including important research, development and 
procurement funding to improve our Armed Forces and the operations and 
maintenance funding necessary to ensure the smooth running of the 
military services over the coming year. I support these activities, 
which not only benefit those servicemembers currently serving overseas 
in Afghanistan and Iraq, but also help build a strong and effective 
military for the future. I applaud the fine work of Senator Levin and 
Senator Warner and the staff of the Committee on Armed Services for 
their efforts in putting together a bill that is, in most ways, a good 
piece of legislation.

However, S. 3001 also provides authorization for the funding of 
continued operations in Iraq at levels requested by the Bush 
administration and without any provision to either transition the 
military mission in Iraq or to bring our troops home. In my view, 
providing this funding without conditions, without strings attached, is 
unacceptable.

In my view, the Congress should not continue to write blank checks 
for the prosecution of this apparently endless war in Iraq. In effect, 
this bill also provides a congressional authorization to fund the 
continuation of President Bush's policy in Iraq into 2009, without any 
strings attached. Amendments filed that would have limited the mission 
of U.S. forces in Iraq were not even considered during debate on the 
bill. That is truly unfortunate.

Continuing to prosecute this war at the current rate is straining our 
military to the breaking point. Many units and individuals are enduring 
their third and fourth rotations to Iraq, and because no limits have 
been placed on the mission or force levels, there is no end in sight, 
despite efforts to declare the surge a success in bringing stability to 
Iraq. More and more military analysts are warning that the U.S. Armed 
Forces are at risk for becoming a ''hollow force,'' as happened after 
the Vietnam conflict, putting our entire Nation at greater risk.

Our military commanders in Afghanistan are urgently requesting 
additional and substantial numbers of troops to counter the rising 
violence there, but there are few troops to spare for them. As a 
result, we risk losing whatever gains have been made there, in the 
actual central front of the war on terror and the hunt for Osama bin 
Laden and the al-Qaida organization. We must win that fight, there, or 
face more attacks like the one that took place today against the U.S. 
embassy in Yemen.

I support our troops and I will not let them to lack for anything 
needed to do their job or to keep them safe. But I cannot countenance 
leaving them in Iraq forever, with no limits placed on their mission 
and no assurances by our commander in Iraq that this war is making the 
United States any safer.