---
---

# None
## `097848e036dda6973262ae37a150b1a5`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Absolutely. We have another thing to add to the 
list of the promises that were made that we rehashed here many, many 
times. When you look at we are going to be greeted as liberators, we 
only need $50 billion, we can use the oil for reconstruction, you know, 
all of these things that were told to us before the war that ended up 
not being true, we have something that we can add as we have seen this 
week, May 12 edition of the news, and comparing it to this statement 
that the President made on the Iraqi government, New York Times, 
January 28, 2005, ''But asked if, as a matter of principle, the United 
States would pull out of Iraq at the request of a new (Iraqi) 
government, he said,'' the President said, '' 'Absolutely. This is a 
sovereign government.' ''

May 12, 2007, fast forward, majority of Iraq lawmakers seek timetable 
for U.S. exit. Majority of Iraq's parliament members signed a petition 
for a timetable governing withdrawal of American troops. The American 
people want us out. The Iraqi parliament wants us out. Seventy percent 
of the Iraqi citizens think it is okay to shoot an American soldier. 
This President is the only one in the world who thinks it's a good idea 
for us to stay there, and it's the same person who told us this slew of 
inaccurate data, information, tactic, strategy 5 years ago.

So we are trying to fix this problem, and we are having a heck of a 
time getting past this President. And he is the President and he does 
have the veto power, but he needs to recognize we want accountability. 
He's not getting a blank check, and this is not going to be an open-
ended war.