# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3159, ENSURING MILITARY READINESS  THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `098f210b442cdfdf65843e3b38511d4a`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 2 August 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I again want to assure my colleagues that 
FISA is on the calendar before we go home, which may be the middle of 
next week. We're not going to leave here without getting that fixed.

Let me also state that, in addition to the dreadful, awful loss of 
our service persons and the terrible wounding and mangled 30,000 or 
more, there's another cost to this war, Mr. Speaker. A new estimate is 
that the war in Iraq will cost the taxpayers of the United States $1 
trillion. We are spending at the rate of $10 billion a month. 
Obviously, this is money that we don't have.

We're borrowing mainly from four sources, the first one being China, 
Japan, South Korea; and, Mr. Speaker, as this debt piles up, it will 
take generations for our children, our grandchildren, our great-
grandchildren and our great-great-grandchildren simply to pay off.

So let me stop as I began, to again express my sorrow to the people 
of Minnesota and make it clear that the spending on this war, which is 
rife with corruption, I do need to say, that in addition to 160,000 
military persons in Iraq, we have 185,000 contractors, spending tax 
money at an enormous rate. We are beginning for the first time in 6 
years, as we've taken the majority, to really look at where that money 
has gone and try to ferret out the corruption, the cronyism, the unbid 
contracts and all of the other scandals that have gone on there.

Just this week again we learned that millions of dollars spent in 
construction to turn things over to the Iraqi people is unacceptable to 
the people of Iraq because of the shoddy workmanship. This is a scandal 
of major proportions, Mr. Speaker. It really is important that we bring 
this to an end and try to clean up and maybe hopefully get our 
international reputation back to some degree.

But the most important thing is that this bill says simply this: Our 
soldiers need rest. How dare we send people into the battle day after 
day, night after night, without saying from this House and from this 
government that what we want for them is what the military always had 
in the past, an opportunity to rest and renew? It's not only critical 
for them personally, but it's critical for the units in which they 
serve that they are in top form. The fact is that we could do that 
quite simply here just today with this bill and also make certain that 
we don't ever again send one of them out on one of those roads to 
patrol unprepared, untrained and unprotected because we failed to spend 
the enormous amount of money on the right kind of equipment.

It's time, Mr. Speaker. We owe it; and I'm ashamed that all these 
years, that for the past 6 years, no oversight, not any, no hearings, 
have been held on this war. No hearings have been held on where all of 
that money has gone, and we're just beginning now to scratch the 
surface.

But the first obligation that we have, far more than money involved, 
the largest obligation we have is to the men and women that we say 
would you please set your life aside and go and fight. We owe them 
everything in the world that we can give them.

I'm happy that we have put a lot of money this year on our side into 
the Veterans Administration, and certainly it's for traumatic brain 
injury which we see so much of it and that the Veterans Administration 
is in no way equipped to handle. We have enough money now in the bills 
so we can send them to the places where they can get the very best help 
available. But young men and women that are 18, 19, 20 years old, 
maimed for life. And Mr. Speaker, it is time some intelligence here in 
the House reigned.