# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `099030c7bd9453e5788bdf3aec176bed`
`Mr. CARDIN â€” 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I take this time first to thank Senator 
Webb for bringing forward his amendment that I strongly support. I 
believe it is in the best interests of our troops, their families, our 
military readiness, and the proper deployment of our troops.

I also thank Senator Levin and Senator Reid for their efforts in 
allowing us the opportunity to try to change our mission in Iraq. I 
believe it is not only in the best interest of the United States to do 
that but also the Iraqi people.

I also compliment Senator Biden for his efforts to bring forward an 
amendment that would give us a more realistic and achievable political 
game plan in Iraq. As has been recently reported, the Iraqi Government 
is dysfunctional, and the only way we are going to be successful in 
Iraq is if we can have a political solution to their problems.

On September 3, 2007, President Bush told troops at Al-Asad Air Base 
that the troop buildup has strengthened security--and that the military 
successes are ''paving the way for the political reconciliation and 
economic progress'' in Iraq. ''When Iraqis feel safe in their own homes 
and neighborhoods,'' said President Bush, ''they can focus their 
efforts on building a stable, civil society.''

I believe that the last part of that statement, when an Iraqi can 
walk into the street without fear of being attacked, blown up, or 
bribed, of having family harmed, his house or his business taken, when 
he is confident that his children will have enough food and water and 
be able to attend school in peace, he will be able to focus on building 
a more stable civil society.

But what I don't see is any independent evidence that the increased 
U.S. troop presence has, as promised, led to greater civilian security, 
let alone paved the way for political and economic success.

The 2007 emergency supplemental appropriations bill required 
President Bush to report to Congress and the American people in July 
and September on the progress Iraqis are making toward achieving 
certain critical benchmarks put forward by the Iraqi Government and 
affirmed by President Bush in his January ''New Way Forward'' speech. 
These were not benchmarks established by Congress. These were 
benchmarks established by the Iraqis, in this legislation. That same 
legislation asked the independent Government Accountability Office to 
undertake the same investigation and chartered the Independent 
Commission on the Security Forces of Iraq to investigate the progress 
those institutions are making toward independence. We now have each of 
those reports.

Not even President Bush claims that substantial progress toward 
political or economic benchmarks has occurred. As reported by his 
administration in July and September there has been little progress on 
debaathification reform, oil revenue sharing, provincial elections, or 
amnesty laws.

The GAO reports that the Iraqi Government has met only /1/8/ of the 
legislative benchmarks. The rights of minority party political parties 
in the Iraqi legislature are protected, though the same is not true for 
the Iraqi population whose ''rights are often violated.''

Any prospects for further progress toward these goals have been 
dashed by the withdrawal of 15 of the 37 members of the Iraqi cabinet. 
The Congressional Research Service reported that the boycott has left 
''the Iraqi Government in essential collapse.''

That is another reason why we need The Biden amendment, and more 
important, for us to move forward implementing a new strategy in Iraq.

Just as important, there is no independent evidence that increased 
troop presence has created the security necessary to foster future 
political and economic progress in Iraq.

The GAO reports that it is not clear whether sectarian violence has 
been reduced and that the average number of daily attacks aqainst 
civilians has remained about the same.

The August National Intelligence Estimate reports that the level of 
overall violence in Iraq, including attacks on and casualties among 
civilians, remains high and will remain high over the next 6 to 12 
months.

According to figures compiled by the Associated Press, Iraqis are 
suffering double the number of war-related deaths throughout the 
country compared to this time last year.

In an August op-ed, seven non-commissioned officers wrote:




 [T]he most important front in the counterinsurgency, 


 improving basic social and economic conditions, is the one on 


 which we have failed most miserably. . . . Cities lack 


 regular electricity, telephone services and sanitation. . . .



 In a lawless environment where men with guns rule the 


 streets, engaging in the banalities of life has become a 


 death-defying act. . . . When the primary preoccupation of 


 average Iraqis is when and how they are likely




 to be killed, we can hardly feel smug as we hand out care 


 packages. As an Iraqi man told us a few days ago with deep 


 resignation, ''We need security, not free food.''


Even if we assume a decline in violence, in certain regions in Iraq 
it is far from clear that increased U.S. troops are responsible. There 
are over 2 million refugees that have fled Iraq.

Internally displace persons are estimated at 2 million and are 
increasing by 80,000 to 100,000 each month. At that rate, Washington, 
DC would be empty by March.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees found that 63 
percent of those displaced moved because of threats to their security. 
Sixty-nine percent left homes in Baghdad. Baghdad is undergoing 
sectarian cleansing. If the death toll in a Sunni district falls 
because its residents have fled, the resulting reduction in violence is 
not attributable to increased troops, and that kind of development is 
not ''progress.''

The bottom line: the GAO report found the Iraqi Government has not 
eliminated militia control over local security or political 
intervention in military operations. It has not ensured evenhanded 
enforcement of the law or increased the number of army units capable of 
independent operations.

Are Iraqis more secure? For me, the 100,000 people fleeing their 
homes each month in fear for their safety answer the question. The 
truth, as everyone acknowledges, is that the security that Iraqi man 
wanted instead of free food will only come with political 
reconciliation.

Those same seven NOC's explained that:




 political reconciliation in Iraq will occur, but not at our 


 insistence or in ways that meet our benchmarks. It will 


 happen on Iraqi terms. . . .



 [I]t would be prudent for us to increasingly let Iraqis 


 take center stage in all matters, to come up with a nuanced 


 policy in which we assist them from the margins but let them 


 resolve their differences as they see fit.


President Bush predicted that increased U.S. troop levels taking a 
more visible--rather than marginal--role would stabilize the country so 
that its national leaders could reach political agreement. They would 
enable us to accelerate training initiatives so that Iraqi army and 
police force could assume control of all security in the country by 
November 2007. President Bush sent over 28,000 more soldiers into Iraq 
to fulfill these goals.

The reports before us in September, like the reports before us in 
July, show us that President Bush's troop escalation is ineffective. It 
has failed to make Iraq more secure, failed to stem the civil war going 
on in Iraq, and failed to lead to political reconciliation. That 
failure was clear when I last came to the floor to discuss this issue 
in July, and it is clear today.


Since July, 150 more American soldiers have died; nearly 5,000 more 
have been wounded. My home State of Maryland has lost three more of its 
bravest citizens. One of those seven NOC's, whose wisdom and insight I 
have quoted at length, was shot through the head and, just last week, 
two others were killed. Every month in 2007 has seen more U.S. military 
casualties over the same month in 2006.

Six years after 9/11, our policy in Iraq has distracted us from 
confronting the weaknesses those attacks revealed. Terrorist attacks 
around the world continue to rise. No progress has been made on the 
Arab-Israeli conflict. Our military might has been stretched thin.

The most recent intelligence analysis reports that al Qaeda in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan is stronger now than at any other time since 
September 11, 2001. Iran is as dangerous as ever.

Thomas H. Kean and Lee H. Hamilton, cochairs of the 9/11 Commission, 
wrote that ''we face a rising tide of radicalization and rage in the 
Muslim world--a trend in which our own actions have contributed.'' Last 
week, Senator Warner asked General Petreaus whether continuing the 
strategy the general laid before Congress would make our country safer. 
General Petreaus responded, ''Sir, I don't know actually.''

He didn't know because he has been ''focused on . . . how to 
accomplish the mission of the Multi-national Force in Iraq.'' That is 
what he should be focused on. That is his job. But the people focused 
on our Nation's safety and our overall strategy in the Middle East 
agree with Kean and Hamilton.

Admiral Fallon, chief of the U.S. Central Command, which oversees 
Middle East operations, has argued for accepting more risks in Iraq in 
order to have the necessary forces available to confront other 
potential threats. The Joint Chiefs have been sympathetic to Admiral 
Fallon's view.

In order to bolster our military and refocus attention on the global 
terrorist threat, this Congress has attempted to change the mission of 
our operation in Iraq. But President Bush and a minority in Congress 
have rebuffed the effort.

We cannot wait any longer to change the mission in Iraq. The cost of 
further delay in lives, materiel, treasure, and our standing in the 
world is too great. President Bush's strategy has put this Nation at 
greater risk--a risk that metastasizes each day that we sit by and 
wait.

A new policy starts by removing our troops from the middle of a civil 
war and giving them a more realistic mission: counterterrorism, 
training, and force and border protection.

The Independent Commission on the Security Forces of Iraq, chaired by 
retired GEN James L. Jones, and composed of prominent senior retired 
military officers and chiefs of police, suggests that:




 Coalition forces begin to be adjusted, realigned, and re-


 tasked . . . to better ensure territorial defense . . . 


 concentrating on the eastern and western borders and the 


 active defense of the critical infrastructures essential to 


 Iraq.


The Commission also emphasized the importance of transferring 
responsibility to Iraqis, noting the ''fine line between assistance and 
dependence.'' Iraqi citizens turn to our military for protection and 
the basic services the government has failed to provide. We want Iraqis 
to become loyal to their government, not to the local U.S. military 
commander.

We must begin to extricate ourselves and hand responsibility to the 
Iraqis themselves.

As the bipartisan Iraq Study Group noted, ''There is no action the 
American military can take that, by itself, can bring about success in 
Iraq.'' But any effort must include stepped-up diplomacy--a 
''diplomatic surge,'' if you will. Iraq's neighbors have a stake in 
Iraq's stability. The war in Iraq means the spread of fundamentalist 
insurrection and sectarian violence, and an increase in basic crime and 
lawlessness, and not just in Iraq.

We must begin to have a broader diplomatic and economic vision in the 
Middle East. Currently, all of Iraq's neighbors are involved in the 
conflict, but they operate under the table. Iran supports the Shiite 
militias. Saudi Arabia supports the Sunni militias. Turkey plays a role 
in the North, Syria exerts control over Iraq's western border.

The United States engaged all of Afghanistan's neighbors at the 
highest levels and secured their cooperation at the beginning of that 
conflict. We must engage in that same high level effort with Iraq's 
neighbors no matter how much we wish circumstances or the current 
balance of power in the region were different.

We need our Nation's most senior officials engaged in bringing other 
nations and international entities such as the United Nations and the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to the table.

The various agencies of the United Nations are well-suited to tackle 
matters of economic and community development and providing 
electricity, water, and sanitation service. OSCE could assist Iraq with 
collective border security, police training, and immigration and 
religious tolerance efforts.

A change of mission, an increased diplomatic effort, and a movement 
to engage international entities presents the best chance of helping 
the Iraqis build a government that has their confidence and would 
strengthen our own national security and military readiness.

The world has an interest in a safe and secure Iraq. We can no longer 
ignore the overwhelming evidence or recoil from the cold reality the 
facts on the ground reveal. It is time to change the mission, step up 
our diplomatic efforts with a realistic and workable game plan, 
recognize the limits of deployment of our troops and internationalize 
the effort to bring stability to the country and to the Middle East.

