---
---

# None
## `099711b827da74ae48a623555cf4d4f8`
`Mr. REID — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, we turn again to the Feingold-Reid 
amendment. I have cosponsored this amendment in the past, and I am 
happy to do so again today. This amendment is another chance for us to 
show real leadership by forging a responsible and binding path out of 
the quagmire in which we find ourselves in Iraq.

In just a few short months, we will be starting the sixth year of 
this war. We just watched the series on television, the wonderful piece 
that Ken Burns produced of that war, a terrible, difficult war. It was 
long over by the time


we engaged in this war--a war that fought the world, the Far East, 
Europe, Africa, the South Pacific. And here we are soon to start the 
sixth year of this war, and we are in a war that has been fought in an 
area the size of the State of California.

This amendment puts before us a binding national policy, a strategy 
that Democrats and some courageous Republicans have advocated for 
months. I don't agree with my friend from Nebraska, Chuck Hagel, on a 
lot of issues, but I say that his leadership, leading Democrats, 
Republicans, and Independents, on this war issue is one of the most 
courageous political acts I have seen. I have told him so. I believe 
it. So there are Republicans who have joined in this effort, and I 
admire every one of them.

We are asking for a strategy that is the best path for the people of 
the United States and Iraq. It is a path. This legislation changes our 
fundamental mission away from policing a civil war, reduces our large 
combat footprint, and focuses on those missions which are in the 
national security interests of the United States.


It exercises congressional powers that we have within the 
Constitution--powers to limit funding after June 1 of next year well 
into the sixth year of the war--to counterterrorism, force protection, 
and targeted training of Iraqi forces.

This amendment recognizes we have strong interests in Iraq and the 
Middle East, but it does not permit the open-ended role of the United 
States in a civil war.

Nearly all experts agree that 6 years after our country was attacked 
on 9/11, the President's preoccupation with Iraq has not made America 
any more secure. Afghanistan is under attack. We need more forces 
there, not less. We cannot send them because we are bogged down in 
Iraq. The Taliban is attacking us with drug cultivation and trafficking 
at the highest level in years.

Pakistan's tribal border areas have become an increasingly alarming 
safe haven where bin Laden and a new generation of al-Qaida affiliated 
terrorists remain free to plot terrorist attacks.

As we all know, Iraq is mired, I repeat, in a civil war, an 
intractable civil war with no political reconciliation in sight. It is 
long past time for meaningless resolutions and minor policy tweaks. We 
need a major change of course in Iraq, one that responsibly brings our 
troops home, rebuilds the readiness of our military, and returns our 
focus on fighting a real war on terror against bin Laden and his al-
Qaida network.

I urge my colleagues to support this responsible and long overdue 
legislation. I think Senator Feingold and I are not aware of how votes 
have been taken on this issue in the past, but we want others to step 
forward and do what we believe is right. It is time to chart a course 
out of Iraq and return our forces to the real and growing threats we 
face throughout the world.

Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed the Tanner bill with 
overwhelming bipartisan support. This legislation would require the 
President to provide Congress with reports within 60 days of the 
administration's plans for drawing the war to a close.

Is this a step in the right direction? Some say so. We know the 
administration failed from the very beginning and repeatedly thereafter 
to adequately plan for the war in Iraq. We know the President took us 
to war without a plan for peace. Since then, his administration has 
resisted any attempts to examine his failures or to consider broad 
changes to his strategy in Iraq. The White House stubbornly refused to 
take on all the detailed planning that those changes would require. 
There is no sign that this shortsighted administering of the war will 
end.

If Congress does not act, the administration is bound to repeat the 
same mistakes--finishing the Iraq war as irresponsibly as it was 
started. The administration should begin planning for the end of the 
war and the redeployment of our troops, and Congress should expect this 
to be made available for oversight and examination.

Some of my colleagues would like to see the Senate take up the 
legislation that passed the House yesterday. It is within their rights. 
It is legislating on an appropriations bill, and in a conversation I 
had with one of my colleagues who indicated they might offer it, the 
two managers said they will raise a point of order.

I am not one for more reports. I think we need more than reports. But 
I admire those people who proffered this amendment that was adopted 
overwhelmingly in a bipartisan vote. I hope we can get those who 
believe the war has gone on too long, and we need a change, to support 
this amendment.