# VETERANS GUARANTEED BONUS ACT OF 2007
## `099c40e28c85452c614d85229b2a0ef2`
`Mr. STUPAK — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. STUPAK. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

I rise in support of the Veterans Guaranteed Bonus Act of 2007. 
Currently, when a servicemember is wounded in combat and cannot return 
to duty, the Department of Defense allows each military branch to 
determine, in their discretion, whether to pay a servicemember any 
portion of a bonus still due to them. As a result, some members of the 
Armed Forces, who have served their Nation bravely, sustaining severe 
injuries, are not receiving their full bonus.

In the last month, I have written to the President on three occasions 
urging him to immediately terminate this disgraceful policy. In 
response, I received conflicting information from the Department of 
Defense regarding this policy. Deputy Under Secretary William Carr 
wrote me on December 12, in a letter, and he stated: ''The Army pays 
all unpaid enlisted and re-enlistment bonus installments.'' Not true.

In conversations with the Department of the Army National Guard 
Bureau, my staff has been told that instead of paying the full bonus 
due, the Army prorates a soldier's bonus based on the number of months 
the soldier served before their medical discharge. It's still unclear 
as to what the policy is with the Army. This is why we need to enact a 
Veterans Guaranteed Bonus Act. We need to establish a uniform 
Department of Defense policy to ensure all outstanding bonuses are 
promptly paid to our deserving heroes. Bonuses should be paid in full, 
without question.

I was first alerted to this program by an Iraqi war veteran in my 
district, Derek Gagne, from Wilson, Michigan. Derek, an Army National 
Guardsman, had been denied the remainder of his bonus after suffering a 
severe eye injury, losing part of his foot and his leg when his Humvee 
struck an IED in Iraq. Only after numerous calls and questions from my 
office is Derek now receiving his bonus. Our veterans should not need 
to fight so hard for something they are entitled to.

I am pleased to join my colleague from Pennsylvania (Mr. Altmire) in 
cosponsoring the Veterans Guaranteed Bonus Act. This bipartisan bill, 
supported by over 200 Members of Congress, would require the Department 
of Defense to establish a uniform policy which provides veterans who 
are discharged from the military due to combat-related injuries or 
service-connected injuries their full payment of any bonuses within 90 
days of discharge.

This legislation should not be necessary. As Commander in Chief, the 
President has the ability to correct this policy by requiring all 
military branches to provide severely wounded members with their full 
bonuses. This administration is quick to go to war, but slow to respond 
to the needs of our veterans.

Our Nation must be committed to caring for and honoring our veterans 
not just with words, but with deeds. Ensuring that our soldiers receive 
the bonuses they were promised is the least we can do for those who put 
their lives on the line to protect our freedoms.