---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `099d248db8f9c17673f0d123134185c4`
`Mr. JORDAN of Ohio — 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. JORDAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, the principal role of our Federal 
Government is to help keep America safe.

As such, we in Congress must make our national defense a top budget 
priority.

This means we must pledge our steadfast support to American troops 
serving both at home and abroad, and we must renew our unwavering 
commitment to homeland security, in recognition of the dangerous world 
in which we live.

H.R. 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act, makes a genuine 
effort to achieve each of these goals. That's why I will vote for it, 
and I urge my colleagues to do the same.

In 1945, at the end of World War II, the defense budget of the United 
States represented 34.5 percent of our Gross Domestic Product. By 1968, 
that number had shrunk to 9.8 percent. Today, the number is less than 
half of that: about 4.3 percent.

Certainly, the overall dollars spent on defense have increased as our 
economy has grown, but it is clear that our priorities have shifted. 
This bill, while not perfect, commits to funding our defense budget in 
a way that many of us would have thought impossible just a few months 
ago, given the nature of the debate at that time. Some would argue that 
the tenor of the debate on national defense has shifted from talk of 
cutting off funds for our troops in battle to this bipartisan bill.

Some of the bipartisan provisions contained in this defense funding 
blueprint include: Continued support for our troops in harm's way, 
serving in Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom and 
elsewhere. $4.1 billion for state-of-the-art Mine-Resistant Ambush 
Protected (MRAP) vehicles to help protect our soldiers from IEDs. 
Increased Army and Marine Corps active duty end strength, as well as a 
3.5 percent pay raise for all members of the armed forces in 2008, and 
guaranteed pay raises in 2009, 2010, and 2011. $1 billion in new 
funding for National Guard equipment to benefit both our homeland 
security and national defense missions.

These are great and welcome achievements for our national defense--
achievements that each of us can be proud to support. But make no 
mistake: this bill is far from perfect. The measure contains some 
critical funding cuts that, in my opinion, will hurt our ability to 
protect our homeland and our national defense interests from missile 
attacks.

The Democratic bill guts funding for a ballistic missile defense 
system capable of intercepting missiles in each phase of flight. This 
type of program can help protect against growing threats in a changing 
world. Though I was pleased we Republicans were able to restore some of 
the funding for this important program through the amendment process, I 
am disappointed that cuts still exist. But in terms of helping achieve 
our most critical role--keeping America safe--this bill has, and 
deserves, bipartisan support.



Again, Mr. Chairman, though there are some aspects of this 
legislation that I clearly oppose, it is an important step in the 
direction of making national defense and homeland security a continued 
priority of this Congress.