---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `099f11a2431830441dbedc547bde7d38`
`Mr. OBEY — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 12 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, why are we here? We are here because 4 years ago the 
President plunged us into a preemptive war in Iraq, a country that had 
not attacked the United States, and we took that action on the basis of 
bad information, manipulated intelligence, with no visible plans for 
governing after the war was over.



Mr. Speaker, that attack diverted us from the hunt for bin Laden, the 
person who did attack us.

The war has now gone on for 4 years and, as a result, we have seen 
chaos and carnage. We have seen over 3,000 American service men and 
women die, many times more wounded and maimed. We have seen our 
influence decimated throughout the Middle East. We have seen our 
reputation as the democratic hope of the world tarnished by stories 
about torture and rendition.

I voted against that war. There were 215 Republicans who voted for it 
and 6 that voted against it. There were 81 Democrats who voted for it 
and 126 Democrats who voted against it. We had 132 votes, in total, 
against going to war. And ever since that time, we have been trying to 
get to 218 votes so we can turn this country and this war around.

Over the last 4 years, this war has been fought with virtually no 
sense of shared sacrifice. Military families have done double and 
triple duty, while the rest of America has had to accept the sacrifice 
of a tax cut. That is about all that has been asked of most Americans.

We have spent a huge amount of our national treasure, and now the 
President is asking for another almost $100 billion for this war and 
asking for an additional $3.5 billion for his own domestic priorities.

This bill is our response. It says to the President: ''Okay, you can 
have that money, but only under certain terms and conditions.'' And we 
try to do three things: number one, to redirect a greater effort to the 
right war in Afghanistan, rather than the wrong war in Iraq. Secondly, 
we try to protect our troops to the maximum extent possible and correct 
the neglect that they have suffered as they have returned from the 
battlefield. And, thirdly, we are trying to send a message to Iraq 
politicians that they need to change direction; that we will no longer 
tolerate an open-ended, interminable babysitting job; that they must 
get together and begin to resolve their own differences.

This bill sets a timetable for repositioning our troops out of Iraq. 
The exact timetable will be determined by the performance of the Iraqis 
and whether or not they meet important political and military 
benchmarks.

And this bill establishes a target for finishing our redeployment in 
any circumstance. It recognizes that our troops won the war, but it 
also recognizes that the President's plan calls upon troops to do 
something that they do not have the power to do, namely, to convince 
Iraqi factions to reach reasonable compromises on their own turf.

It sets reasonable conditions for moving our troops into a different 
posture. It holds Iraqis accountable to standards that the President 
himself has laid out. And it puts us on a new direction with respect to 
the war in Iraq.

And it does some other things, too. It completes action on a number 
of leftover pieces of business that the previous Congress left to this 
new incoming Congress.

The President himself asked for $3.4 billion to deal with the needs 
of FEMA. We are also finishing action on the BRAC action which requires 
$3.1 billion in additional funding. We are finishing action on the need 
to improve family military housing to the tune of $3.4 billion. We are 
finishing action on rebuilding the lives and providing other assistance 
to the Katrina victims after the most devastating natural disaster in 
the history of our country.

We are finishing the action on the agriculture disaster problem that 
Congress wrestled with for well over a year in the previous Congress 
without coming to resolution. And we are providing the final $1 billion 
in funds to combat a potential pandemic flu, funds which the President 
himself requested in an emergency appropriation in the year 2005.

And we are also finishing action on the action begun last year by the 
Congress in trying to deal with the fact that 14 States are going to 
run out of child health money; and we need, therefore, to provide $750 
million to see to it that low-income families and children in low-
income families are not pushed off those State health care rolls. This 
is a request that has come in from Republican and Democratic Governors 
alike.

And we have also provided some additional funding, above what the 
President asked for, items which are not


last year's business, but which we think are important in terms of this 
year's business.

We are increasing funding for veterans health and defense health by 
$3.4 billion. We are, on the homeland security front, increasing 
funding substantially. The President, since days after 9/11, has been 
resisting virtually every congressional effort to add funding for 
homeland security, for border security, for cargo security and the 
like.

We are continuing the effort to provide significantly more money than 
the President has asked for. If anybody wants to argue with that, I 
would suggest they take it up with the 9/11 Commission. I would suggest 
they take it up with the Hart-Rudman Commission. I would suggest they 
take it up with the 9/11 families. Everybody but Anne Coulter, I think, 
would be responsive to what those families think.

And then we are also providing $1.2 billion in additional funding for 
our war in Afghanistan. Mr. Speaker, I sat at CIA headquarters and 
watched, right after 9/11, as our predator aircraft were searching 
Afghanistan for bin Laden. And I know what the people at that agency 
were saying when they expressed their frustration that the President 
was diverting a huge share of our resources in the hunt for bin Laden 
to prepare for the unilateral attack on Iraq.

What this bill is trying to do is to correct that by, again, 
refocusing additional attention on the war against Afghanistan. And I 
make absolutely no apology for the funds that we have in here.

Now, some will say this is not a perfect instrument. They will differ 
with the time line that we have for the repositioning of troops, and 
they will differ with the benchmarks. But what I would say to them is 
that what is important in this document today is not the exact wording. 
What is important is not the exact timetable. What is important is not 
the exact enumeration of benchmarks. What is important is that, for the 
first time, this Congress will be exercising its constitutional 
responsibilities to provide real oversight on the executive branch of 
government, and we will be trying to set this country on a new 
direction.

Someone in this House said last week that we are similar in our 
position to a board of directors for a corporation. He said the 
President is the CEO. The President's Cabinet represents his management 
team, and we are the board of directors. And when a board of directors 
of a corporation sees that the management of the corporation is leading 
it down a disastrous path, it has a fiduciary responsibility to its 
stockholders to step in and correct the problem. That is what we are 
trying to do in this legislation. In this case, we have a fiduciary 
responsibility and a representational responsibility to the taxpayers 
and to our constituents, and we are trying to meet that responsibility 
today.

Now, there are some who have criticized us for doing so, some in 
newspapers and some on this floor. Very frankly, I am getting a bit 
tired of those who were consistently wrong from the beginning on the 
issue of Iraq, I am getting tired of them lecturing those of us who 
were consistently right from the beginning in our opposition to this 
war.

And when people ask me why we don't have a better solution, I tell 
them of the old story about Eddie Stanky, who used to play second base 
for the New York Giants many years ago. And one day, Leo Durocher, the 
manager, was hitting ground balls to the infield, and Stanky dropped 
two in a row. And so Durocher grabbed a glove and said, ''Here, kid, 
I'm going to show you how it's done.'' And he went out to second base, 
and the very first ball Durocher dropped. And he turned to Stanky, and 
said, ''Kid, you got second base so screwed up, nobody can play it.''

The fact is, if you substitute George Bush for Eddie Stanky and Iraq 
for second base, you have got the picture of what the problem is today.

Now, this Congress cannot run foreign policy, but it has an 
obligation to try to influence the policy and influence the conduct of 
that policy when we see it headed down the wrong path. Mr. Murtha has 
tried to lead the way in seeing to it that we face up to those 
responsibilities, and this legislation will give us an opportunity to 
do that.

I would hope it would be supported on a bipartisan basis.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.