---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 VETO MESSAGE FROM  THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `09ac95a037b21a7e508a52029afb70ed`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, with this veto, President Bush has once again failed to 
safeguard our families.

And what is this ''waterboarding'' that the President so readily 
embraces? It sounds a little like a cousin of skateboarding or 
snowboarding. But, in fact, it is a new name for an old water torture 
in which a human being is drowned. The drowning is controlled to force 
a response, but waterboarding is simply a euphemism for torture by 
drowning.

Now, President Bush is not the first Texan to think of this and to 
believe that horrific wrongs can justify drowning of the culprit. An 
earlier Texas waterboarder is not in the White House; he was sent to 
the Big House. A Texas judge said that this waterboarding Texas sheriff 
put law enforcement ''in the hands of a bunch of thugs'' that would 
''embarrass a dictator.'' The sheriff was sentenced to 10 years. That 
judge was right, and this administration is so very wrong.

America seems to have been sentenced to 8 years of Dick Cheney, who 
claims that such water torture is a ''no brainer.'' ''No brainer''--
that sounds like a good way to describe how so many of this 
Administration's policies have been made.

Torture is no proper tool in the arsenal of democracy. Torture is 
foreign to our values, foreign to our history, foreign to our 
religions, foreign to our laws, and it is foreign to our international 
commitments. There can be no compromise, no middle ground. We must have 
zero tolerance for torture.

If we abandon our American values, we lose who we are. We lose our 
identity. We lose our pride as the greatest Nation in the world. And if 
the Administration and its apologists continue forcing America to 
abandon the rule of law and our long commitment to human dignity, we 
will lose the war.

The use of torture, which President Bush's veto endorses, is not only 
un-American; it is ineffective. That is one reason why the Army Field 
Manual prohibits its use even when our military is in harm's way. As 
General David Petraeus, our commander in Iraq, wrote to his troops last 
year: ''Beyond the basic fact that such actions are illegal, history 
shows that they also are frequently neither useful nor necessary.''

I say follow our generals, not the Cheney ideologues, not the 
apologists. Override this veto.