---
---

# ISRAEL AND GAZA
## `09bfa448c7ee7eb7e3844b436e38eaa5`
`Mr. CARDIN — 7 January 2009`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, a nation's first responsibility is to 
defend its citizens against hostile threats. The United States 
exercised that responsibility when the Taliban Government of 
Afghanistan supported terrorist attacks against our country. Israel has 
the responsibility to protect its citizens from Hamas terrorist 
attacks.

I am deeply saddened by the continued violence and loss of innocent 
lives on both sides of the Israel-Gaza border.

I strongly support Israel's right to defend its citizens against 
threats to its security and its existence. I wholeheartedly agree with 
President-elect Obama who defined the problem very clearly:




 If somebody was sending rockets into my house, where my 


 family slept at night I'm going to do everything in my power 


 to stop that.


The recent military action in Gaza is in direct response to numerous 
rocket and mortar attacks from militants in the Hamas-controlled Gaza, 
which have killed and injured Israeli citizens and currently paralyzes 
the southern regions of Israel.

Southern Israel cities have been the target of over 4,000 rockets and 
thousands of mortar shells since 2001, the majority of which were 
launched after Israel withdrew from Gaza in August 2005. During the 
more recent 6-month truce, more than 215 rockets were launched at 
Israel. Hamas has been extending the range of its striking capability, 
with new rockets supplied by Iran. The Israeli Government now knows 
that Hamas had acquired rockets that can reach Ashdod and even the 
outskirts of Beersheba.

Hamas' willingness to extend its reach deeper into Israel and its 
overall failure to end attacks exacerbates the already fragile 
humanitarian situation for the residents of Gaza and undermines efforts 
to attain peace and security in the region. As a result of the 
fighting, Gaza City and its main medical center, Shiffa Hospital, have 
been left without electricity and hospitals are pushed beyond their 
capacity to handle the number of victims. Hamas seems to care more 
about inflicting damage on Israel than the protection and welfare of 
its own citizens.

Hamas poses a critical challenge to the regional peace process. 
Labeled as a terrorist organization but holding seats in the 
Palestinian Government and acting as the controlling authority in Gaza, 
the organization's leaders encourage violence and cling to the belief 
that Israel itself should be destroyed. Questions remain as to whether 
or not the organization should even be included in peace negotiations, 
but the fact remains that the threat Hamas poses to Israel is an 
obstacle to any negotiation efforts.

I urge Israel and the Palestinians to take advantage of the current 
efforts to broker a sustainable cease-fire and a negotiated peaceful 
settlement. Any such cease-fire must include Hamas' ending its rocket 
and mortar attacks, recognize its neighbor's right to exist, renounce 
violence, and honor all past agreements in order to move toward a two-
state solution based on mutual peace and security.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.