# None
## `09d57865eed5ad59542a4def559bc0f8`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. I thank my friend, Representative Sutton. This 
evening gives us an opportunity to take account, to look at the record, 
and reveal it to the American people. We are in a season close to an 
election, where the American people are going to have to make a 
decision, and it's going to be an extraordinarily consequential 
decision. In the fog of a campaign, there's an awful lot of rhetoric 
back and forth, where those who have not done much try to conceal it 
with claims that they did, and try to shoot down the progress that has 
been made.

Now we all know that when we get going, and we are going to solve our 
problems, it's going to have to be working together. We have been doing 
our best to do that. But what we have to do tonight is lay out what the 
record has been.

What I want to talk about briefly are two areas; one is deficit, to 
continue what my friend, Representative Sutton was talking about, and 
the other is on Iraq. The reason I want to talk about them specifically 
is because it is important for the American people to know what they 
can expect from our friends on the other side who have a clear record, 
and it is one that they are accountable for, but it has to be one that 
Americans are aware of.

On deficits, taking up on what you said, let me just read some quotes 
from


members of the administration to remind the American people of what was 
promised, and then lay out some facts about what actually was done.

''Our budget will run a deficit that will be small and short term.'' 
George Bush, in January of 2003. ''We can proceed with tax relief 
without fear of budget deficits even if the economy softens. 
Projections for the surplus in my budget are cautious and 
conservative.'' George Bush, March 27, 2001.

''We are holding down government spending and reforming government, 
and the good news is the deficit is coming down.'' OMB Director Jim 
Nussle, June 22, 2006. ''I don't like deficits, I don't want deficits, 
and I won't pretend deficits don't matter.'' OMB Director Jim Nussle, 
March 12, 2003.

''Today's announcement by President Bush confirms that the pro-growth 
economic policies put in place by Republicans are working as planned to 
spur economic growth and reduce the deficit. Republicans are meeting 
our commitments to the American taxpayers by exercising fiscal 
restraint in promoting economic policies this create jobs, all efforts 
which have produced a strong economy that is working to drive down and 
eventually eliminate our deficit.'' John Boehner, October 11, 2006.

What are the facts? That is the rhetoric. What are the facts? 
President Bush and congressional Republicans, his allies, have turned a 
projected 10-year, 10-year surplus of $5.6 trillion into a projected 
10-year deficit of $3.4 trillion. That is a swing of $9 trillion in one 
Presidency. When President Bush took office, there was a projected 
surplus of $710 billion for fiscal year 2009.

President Bush's budget will create a $407 billion deficit for fiscal 
year 2009. That is a swing of over $1 trillion.

Under the Bush administration, Republicans created the five largest--
one, two, three, four, five--five largest budget deficits in American 
history, $378 billion, $413 billion, $318 billion, $407 billion, and 
$438 billion now projected.

The first 42 Presidents, the first 42 American President's, borrowed 
a total of $1 trillion. That was during wars, by the way; World War I, 
World War II, the Korean conflict, Vietnam, combined. That is the total 
amount borrowed from foreign governments and financial institutions.

In the 7/1/2/ years of the Bush Presidency, President Bush has 
borrowed more than $1.6 trillion. He borrowed more in 7/1/2/ years than 
42 Presidents did in over 100 years of our history.

When President Bush took office, we had a national debt that was $5.7 
trillion. During his administration, that has nearly doubled, and will 
reach $10.3 trillion by the end of fiscal year 2009.

This administration has presided over a fiscal train wreck, and it is 
creating obviously a deep hole that we have to climb out of, the 
American people have to climb out of, and it's a record of rhetoric of 
rosy fiscal scenarios with reckless policies that have caused, in a 
short time, 7/1/2/ years, the greatest explosion in the debt of the 
United States government, which belongs to you and me and the 
generations that will come after us, that we are going to have to 
repay, and it will take generations to do.

I will yield back my time to the gentlelady from Ohio.