---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3159, ENSURING MILITARY READINESS  THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `09d694be1737033e1b287e0172ed74a9`
`Mr. CASTLE — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman for 
yielding.

I do rise in opposition to what I consider to be a closed rule. I do 
support the underlying bill, but I object to the leadership's decision 
to prevent any substantive debate.

I offered an amendment yesterday that would have credited soldiers 
with one additional day of leave for every month that they are deployed 
in a combat zone. All members of the Armed Forces, including those 
serving the Guard and Reserve, receive 2/1/2/ days of leave time per 
month, regardless whether they are deployed in Iraq or back in the U.S. 
at their home base.

I developed this legislation, an extra day per month, not from 
anything out of my mind but in correspondence with a soldier who had 
been in the combat zone. We feel very strongly that spending time with 
family and loved ones after returning from deployment is essential to a 
soldier's mental health,


and that is why I prepared the amendment and introduced it.

We think that it is small step to help the troops, but this amendment 
was denied in the rule. For that reason, I oppose the rule as we have 
it.

But I am also very disappointed that this House continues to prevent 
consideration of the Iraq Study Group Recommendations Implementation 
Act. They are now getting close to 60 Members, almost evenly divided 
between Republicans and Democrats, who support the concepts in this.

My decision is that the time has come to have the discussion of the 
Iraq Study Group's recommendations on the floor of the House of 
Representatives, and I hope that can happen sooner rather than later.