# None
## `09dbf24f51bbfb9b74d1bd33594bfaa3`
`Mr. DORGAN — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I am going to talk about a couple subjects 
this afternoon. I am going to begin, however, talking about the issue 
of children's health insurance.

The Children's Health Insurance Program will be the subject of the 
cloture vote later this afternoon, and it is a very important issue. We 
have a lot of children in this country who do not have health insurance 
coverage. Ten years ago, we put together a piece of legislation called 
the Children's Health Insurance Program. It has worked. It has been 
very successful. Millions of children who otherwise would not have had 
health insurance coverage now have health insurance coverage.

The President, when he campaigned for office a couple of years ago, 
said he supported and wanted to expand the Children's Health Insurance 
Program to cover more children. The Congress, on a bipartisan basis, 
has now passed the Children's Health Insurance Program reauthorization 
that would provide additional coverage for nearly 4 million additional 
children in this country--3.8 million additional children, to be exact. 
The President vetoed it--this after he campaigned saying he supported 
expanding the program. In fact, not only did he veto the expansion of 
the program--that was done on a bipartisan basis in the Congress, and 
fully paid for, I might say--but he sent Congress a budget that left 21 
States without enough money to continue to cover the existing kids in 
the program.

So this administration has it wrong. That is not just me saying it, 
it is a bipartisan group of Members of Congress who believe very 
strongly we need to do what is right to try to get health insurance to 
children. We should try to make sure every American has health 
insurance. That is very important. But it seems to me if you do not 
have legislation that does that, at least start with the children.

I have said before, I do not know what is in second or third or 
fourth place in most people's lives in terms of what is important, but 
I know what is in first place in the lives of most people. It is their 
children and their children's health. If this is not a priority, if it 
is not a priority at the White House--it passed the Senate with a wide 
margin, passed the House with a wide margin, but we did not have 67 
percent of the votes in the House to override the veto--if it is not a 
priority at the White House, I ask what is a priority? If providing 
health care for an additional 3.8 million children is not a priority, 
what are the priorities at the White House? What is more important?

Once again, this may be unfamiliar territory to the President because 
this is a piece of legislation that is fully paid for, unlike much of 
what we get from the White House these days. I am going to talk about 
that in a bit. But before us here in Congress, the President has two 
requests. In addition to his regular budget, the President has said to 
us: I want another $196 billion for the purposes of continuing the war 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. And he said: I want the $196 billion declared 
an emergency. I do not propose we pay for it. I propose we put it all 
on top of the debt. That will take us to almost two-thirds of a 
trillion dollars the President has asked for--none of it paid for, all 
of it requested by the President as an emergency.

Contrast that, by the way, a $196 billion emergency request--none of 
it paid for--with a bipartisan group in the Congress that says: We 
believe the priority is our children. We propose to cover 3.8 million 
additional kids with health insurance coverage, and we fully pay for 
it. That is a very significant departure from what we hear at the White 
House these days.

Now the President gases up Air Force One, flies all over the country, 
and flew


down to Arkansas not many days ago and said: I am the fiscal policy 
President. I am going to get tough. I am vetoing bills. Interestingly, 
he did not veto a bill in the 6 years his party controlled both 
branches of Congress. He did not veto bills in the 6 years in which, in 
nearly every case, the appropriations coming out of the Congress 
exceeded his request or at least were dramatically changed from his 
request.

It is now, only in the shadows, the evening hours of his Presidency 
he decides he wants to be a fiscal policy President, tough on fiscal 
policy. The problem is, it is not so much what you say that matters, it 
is what you do that matters, and he has before us one more 
demonstration of the reckless fiscal policy we have seen now for some 
years, turning a very significant budget surplus, when he took office--
and, yes, we had a budget surplus of about $240 billion in that year--
turning that into a stream of fiscal policy budget deficits, adding $3 
trillion to the Federal debt, and asking us, once again: Please give me 
another $196 billion above all the regular appropriations.


By the way, even as he asks for the additional $196 billion, he says 
we cannot afford providing insurance coverage for 3.8 million kids whom 
we fully pay for in a bipartisan bill.

I am telling you, I think the President is wrong. I admire the fact 
this is a bipartisan bill. We did it the right way. The President will 
have a second opportunity to have a bill on his desk. My hope is he 
will understand the good faith and goodwill of bipartisan Members of 
Congress who have the right priorities, saying our children come first 
and children's health insurance is very important.











 Indian Health Care Improvement Act


Mr. President, that leads me to talk about a health insurance issue 
that includes the Children's Health Insurance Program but is much more 
than that. It is a bill that is going to come to the floor of the 
Senate soon, and thanks to the commitment by Senator Reid, the majority 
leader, it is the reauthorization of the Indian Health Care Improvement 
Act.

It has been 8 years since Congress should have reauthorized the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act--8 years--long past due, long past 
the time for us to have done this. The fact is, in this country we have 
2 million of the first Americans--they were here greeting the folks who 
came to this country--American Indians, and many of them live in Third 
World conditions, and many of them experience health care rationing, 
which I think is a scandal.

It is not written much about these days, unfortunately. But there is 
a full-blown scandal, in my judgment, with respect to health care that 
is not available to American Indians--health care that was promised, 
health care that was committed, and health care that is our trust 
responsibility as a government to American Indians. We made that 
commitment, and we are not keeping it.

Indian children will benefit from children's health insurance as 
well. But also, Indian children live--and in some cases die--with the 
results of the Indian health care system.

This young lady shown in this picture is a 5-year-old beautiful young 
girl--sparkling eyes, with a beautiful dress, dancing in the 
traditional Indian dress--5 years old. Her grandmother, who testified 
at the Crow Indian Reservation, at a hearing I headed with Senator 
Tester, held this picture up. Her name is Ta'shon Rain Littlelight--5 
years old.

Ta'shon died. Her grandmother brought her photograph to the hearing 
and held it high. She talked about her granddaughter. She said Ta'shon 
lived the last 3 months of her life in unmedicated pain, and died of 
terminal cancer. She was taken and taken and taken again to the Indian 
Health Service, was diagnosed with depression, and treated for 
depression. Ultimately, it was discovered she had terminal cancer--not 
depression, terminal cancer.

She was flown to Billings, MT, and then to Denver, CO, and this young 
5-year-old is gone. Her grandmother asks the question: Would better 
health care have saved her? Should she have been diagnosed in a 
different manner? I don't know the answer to that. I do know this: 
There are too many children like Ta'shon Rain Littlelight who do not 
have the same health care as others have, and Ta'shon lost her life.

It is not just this beautiful little girl. This is the photograph of 
a young girl whose photograph I have shown my colleagues before. Her 
name is Avis Littlewind. Avis Littlewind is also dead--14 years old. 
She took her own life. Her sister took her own life. Her father died at 
his own hand. She was in a fetal position in bed in her bedroom for 90 
days at age 14, and somehow no one quite figured out this young lady 
desperately needed mental health treatment. So she took her life.

I went to that Indian reservation. I talked to the school officials. 
I talked to Avis Littlewind's classmates. I talked to the tribal 
officials to try to understand: How does a 14-year-old child fall 
through the cracks?

Well, there was not mental health treatment available in any 
significant way for this young child. The people who would get her 
health care would have to beg and borrow a car to drive her someplace. 
But she is gone. This young girl apparently felt hopeless and helpless 
and took her own life.

The question I ask with respect to the mental health treatment she 
should have gotten--with respect to so many other kinds of health care 
that should be available to American Indians--the question I ask is: 
When? When will they get the health treatment they deserve?

This is a picture of a woman from the Fort Berthold Indian 
Reservation. I have described her situation to my colleagues previously 
as well. Suspected of having a heart attack, she was put in an 
ambulance and driven to a hospital--the nearest hospital off the Indian 
reservation. Arriving at the hospital, as they were carrying her into 
the hospital, transferring her to a hospital gurney, they discovered at 
the hospital something taped to her thigh with an ordinary piece of 
tape.

Here, as shown on this chart, is what was taped to this woman's 
thigh, as she was taken into the hospital off of a gurney, suspected of 
having a heart attack. What they found taped to her thigh was a letter 
from the Department of Health and Human Services, and it described that 
this woman was not going to be eligible for contract health funding 
because they were out of money: So if you admit this woman to your 
hospital, understand, you are on your own. Financially, you are on your 
own. We are warning you.

That is what the letter taped to this woman's thigh said. That is 
health care today in modern America on Indian reservations.

Now let me describe why there is an urgency to pass Indian health 
care legislation, to reauthorize the Act that should have been 
reauthorized 8 years ago.

We spend twice as much money per person on health care for Federal 
prisoners incarcerated in our Federal prisons as we do for American 
Indians, and we have a responsibility, a trust responsibility, for 
health care for American Indians. This is not being generous. This is 
meeting a promise America made to Indians. This country made the 
promise over and over again that we would provide for their health 
care. But we have not met that promise.

If you take a look at what we spend per capita for American Indians, 
what you will discover is, we spend half as much per person for 
American Indians as we do for Federal prisoners. We have a 
responsibility for health care for those we incarcerate. I understand. 
If you stick someone in a Federal prison, you have to take care of 
them, provide for their health care.

Why do we spend twice as much for a Federal prisoner's health care as 
we did for Ta'shon Rain Littlelight's or Avis Littlewind's or, in per 
capita expenditures, we do for American Indians? We spend $6,700 a 
year, per capita, on Medicare expenditures, veterans, $4,600; Medicaid, 
$4,300; Federal prisoners, $3,200; Indian health program; $2,100 per 
capita. We have to do better than that. We have significant 
responsibilities, significant problems, and regrettably, full-scale 
health care rationing on many of America's Indian reservations, and I 
think it is a scandal and an outrage and we have to fix it.


Senator Murkowski and I, as chairman and ranking member of the Indian 
Affairs Committee, have written in our committee a piece of legislation 
called the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. We are ready to bring 
that to the


floor of the Senate at last, at long last. Lives will be saved if we 
can pass this piece of legislation. Senator Reid has given us a 
commitment that we will have this piece of legislation on the floor of 
the Senate, and when we do, I think it will be a day of some 
celebration for American Indians who have been promised health care 
and, regrettably, have not received the benefit of the promises that 
were made. I am not suggesting there aren't some talented men and women 
who work in the Indian health care system and who work in public 
health. I am not suggesting there aren't some very talented people out 
there. But I can tell horror stories that are almost unbelievable.

A woman goes to the doctor on an Indian reservation, and she has a 
knee that is unbelievably painful--bone on bone. It is the kind of knee 
that if it belonged to a Member of the Senate or one of the Senator's 
families, they would go and get a knee replacement. Bone on bone, 
unbelievably painful.

This woman is told: Wrap your knee in cabbage leaves for 4 days, and 
it will be fine. Well, that is not fine, and that is not medicine. That 
isn't what we should expect in terms of meeting our responsibilities in 
this country to the first Americans.

Again, I asked the grandmother of Ta'Shon Rain Littlelight if I could 
use her image, and I do so respectfully and I do so understanding the 
delicacy of it. But when the grandmother came to the hearing and held 
up the picture of this beautiful young girl with the sparkling eyes, 
and said: My granddaughter died, and here is how she died. In 3 months 
of unmedicated pain after her terminal cancer had not been diagnosed 
for months and months and months.

I think it is important for us to ask the question: Does this matter? 
Do we care? I hope the answer is yes, it does matter and, yes, this 
Congress does care and, yes, this Congress is going to meet its 
responsibility. I hope in the coming weeks that certainly will be the 
case, starting here in the Senate.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I make a point of order that a 
quorum is not present.