---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `09e4b72207f184d96e4455f094984d5e`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong 
support of our military men and women. I will strongly support our 
soldiers serving in harm's way in Iraq and Afghanistan. I support all 
off our veterans, men and women who have served our country with great 
honor and distinction, and because of my support for our military men 
and women, I also rise in support of this resolution.

I support this resolution because I see no evidence that an increase 
in troops will lead to anything other than more lost American lives. I 
do not think a troop surge will bring stability to Baghdad. I do not 
think the surge will enable the Iraqis to stand up and defend 
themselves, and I do not think the surge will end the religious and 
ethnic strife that has existed in the Middle East for centuries.

So here we are this week debating the President's proposal to send 
more troops into Baghdad. And as expected, the rhetoric from our 
friends on the right has at times been shameful. To suggest that 
Democrats and Republicans who support this embolden the enemy, that 
they are defeatist, and that we do not support the troops, and that we 
want to micromanage the war, and that we do not want to preserve 
freedom and liberty in our great country puzzles me.

It seems to me our friends on the right do not like discourse, they 
don't like questions, and they do not like meaningful discussions. They 
do not want us to question the President's strategy, instead they want 
us to follow him like sheep down a tragic street that dead-ends in 
failure.

Attempts to use fear and insults to quiet the administration's 
critics are distasteful and quite frankly hurt America. Why do those 
who oppose this resolution want to discourage the type of action that 
led to the founding of our Nation? The very actions that allowed the 
United States to continue evolving towards that never ending goal of a 
more perfect union.

Our country derives its strengths from the diversity of views and 
ideas that comes from its people. If we disagree with the President's 
proposal, it is our duty, particularly as Members of Congress, to say 
so. I maintain that is the highest of patriotism, and I am not the only 
one who thinks so.

The President Theodore Roosevelt said, referring to the Presidency, 
and I quote him, ''That there should be full liberty to tell the truth 
about his acts, and that this means that it is exactly necessary to 
blame him when he does wrong as to praise him when he does right. Any 
other attitude in any American citizen is both base and servile. To 
announce that there must be no criticism of the President or that to 
stand with the President right or wrong is not only unpatriotic and 
servile, but it is morally treasonable to the American public.''

I do not know about the majority of Republicans in Congress, but I 
agree with Teddy. Our actions this week do not dishearten the troops, 
nor reflect a lack of support for our troops. Defense Secretary Gates 
and General Pace both testified before the Senate Armed Services 
Committee that a resolution disagreeing with the President's proposal 
would not dishearten the troops.

In my opinion, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff may have a 
little better idea of troop morale than Members of Congress. I strongly 
disagree with the notion that our actions this week embolden the enemy. 
If our lack of support for the President's plan emboldens the enemy, 
then public opinion polls also embolden the enemy, since polls show the 
majority of Americans disagree with the administration's policy in 
Iraq. And if this is the case, why do not we see condemnation of the 
American people for their views? It is because politically those who 
oppose this resolution know they cannot criticize the American public, 
but can criticize those of us who serve here in Congress.

If the actions of the House and American people embolden the enemy, 
then we need to consider everyone's comments. Iraq's prime minister al-
Maliki recently said that the Bush administration's description of the 
Iraqi government's being on borrowed time, listen, gives a morale boost 
to the terrorists. The prime minister of Iraq is accusing the 
administration of doing the same thing that many of us are being 
accused of doing in this House chamber. How shameful. Let's get real.

I contend that the American people, the Democrats, the Republicans, 
and that President Bush loves America. The discussion we are having in 
Congress this week is an extension of the cure for America, because we 
all want what we think is best for our country. And what do we want? 
Success. We want security.

In order for us to have success and security we must force the Iraqi 
people to fight for their own country. In my opinion, the way we do 
this is not by adding more troops to the kill zone in Baghdad, but 
rather take our troops out of the kill zone and force the Iraqis to 
step up their efforts.

We should put our troops in a position to support the Iraqis when 
they need us. This way the pressure is on the Iraqis, not on our 
fighting men and women. The idea that we are going to cut and run from 
the Middle East and allow terrorists to control Iraq is false and has 
no basis in reality or in history.

We did not leave Germany after World War II, we did not leave Korea 
after that war, and we will not leave the Middle East after our 
soldiers' responsibilities in Iraq have ended. We did not leave the 
Middle East after the Persian Gulf War and we will not leave the Middle 
East now.

Mr. Speaker, the French did not win the Revolutionary War for us and 
we cannot win this peace for the Iraqis; they have to win it for 
themselves.