---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `09eade7b78dc9a8f5fa27d34f65d1282`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 June 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise to speak in strong 
support of the bill and in favor of my amendment. I also rise to 
express my sincere appreciation to Mr. Edwards, the chairman of the 
Appropriations I subcommittee on Veterans Affairs and Military 
Construction, and the Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, Mr. 
Filner, for all they have done and continue to do to make real 
President Lincoln's admonition that ''we care for him who has borne the 
battle, and for his widow and orphan.''

In particular, I wish to commend Chairman Edwards, for the 
leadership, commitment, and foresight he has demonstrated on the issue 
of PTSD and the overall mental health of our nation's veterans. On 
February 28, 2007, he announced that $3 million has been made available 
for the Waco VA PTSD program in 2006 which is now available so that 
researchers at Fort Hood, Texas A&M, Baylor, the Temple VA, and the 
Waco VA hospital work towards realizing their goal of making the Waco 
VA, in conjunction with Ft. Hood and the Temple VA, a world-class PTSD 
and mental health care research center.

Like Mr. Edwards and Mr. Filner, I am committed to improving the 
lives of thousands of veterans who have risked their lives for our 
nation, and I believe my amendment plays a crucial role in ensuring 
that veterans suffering from PTSD receive the medical treatment they 
desperately need.

Mr. Chairman, thank you for this opportunity to explain my amendment 
to H.R. 2642, the Veterans Affairs and Military Construction 
Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year of 2008. As a Member of Congress 
from Texas, a state which has sustained more casualties in the ongoing 
conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq than all but one other, I am pleased 
to offer this amendment. This amendment is intended to address the 
urgent need for more post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) treatment 
and counseling facilities servicing veterans living in some of the more 
distressed areas of our country.

Mr. Chairman, according to Webster's, dignity is ''the quality or 
condition of being esteemed, honored or worthy.'' We can never do 
enough to honor our wounded veterans. Studies have shown that 30 
percent of troops deployed to Iraq suffer from depression, anxiety, or 
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). However, when wounded troops 
return home the treatment they receive is more befitting a second class 
citizen than a hero. This is a shame and a great stain on our nation.

How these problems could be overlooked or neglected by this 
Administration is unfathomable. The very leaders that these brave young 
men and women rely on let them down. The message that incidents like 
Walter Reed Medical Center sends to our troops is that we do not care 
enough. But that is not the message we wish to send. The Veterans 
Administration and Military Construction Appropriations Act of 2008, 
H.R. 2642, will go long away toward correcting this misapprehension. 
All members of the House are indebted to our colleague, Mr. Edwards of 
Texas, for his masterful leadership in shepherding this landmark 
legislation to the House floor. For the 25,380, 2,401 from Texas, brave 
men and women who have been wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan, help is on 
the way. And the 3,519, 298 from Texas, heroes who have given the last 
full measure of devotion will always be in our hearts and prayers.

Mr. Chairman, my amendment requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
to increase the number of medical facilities specializing in post-
traumatic stress disorder located in underserved urban areas. Access to 
post-traumatic stress disorder treatment is especially important since 
veterans living in such areas are less likely to be diagnosed and 
treated for post-traumatic stress disorder.

Mr. Chairman, PTSD is one of the most prevalent and devastating 
psychological wounds suffered by the brave men and women fighting in 
far off lands to defend the values and freedom we hold dear.

For those of us whose daily existence is not lived in harm's way, it 
is difficult to imagine the horrific images that American servicemen 
and women deployed in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other theaters of war see 
on a daily basis. In an instant a suicide bomber, an lED, or an 
insurgent can obliterate your best friend and right in front of your 
face. Yet, you are trained and expected to continue on with the 
mission, and you do, even though you may not even have reached your 
20th birthday.

But there always comes a reckoning. And it usually comes after stress 
and trauma of battle is over and you are alone with your thoughts and 
memories. And the horror of those desperate and dangerous encounters 
with the enemy and your own mortality come flooding back.

PTSD was first brought to public attention in relation to war 
veterans, but it can result from a variety of traumatic incidents, such 
as mugging, rape, torture, being kidnapped or held captive, child 
abuse, car accidents, train wrecks, plane crashes, bombings, or natural 
disasters such as floods or earthquakes.

People with PTSD may startle easily, become emotionally numb, 
especially in relation to people with whom they used to be close, lose 
interest in things they used to enjoy, have trouble feeling 
affectionate, be irritable, become more aggressive, or even become 
violent. They avoid situations that remind them of the original 
incident, and anniversaries of the incident are often very difficult. 
PTSD symptoms seem to be worse if the event that triggered them was 
deliberately initiated by another person, as in a mugging or a 
kidnapping. Most people with PTSD repeatedly relive the trauma in their 
thoughts during the day and in nightmares when they sleep. These are 
called flashbacks. Flashbacks may consist of images, sounds, smells, or 
feelings, and are often triggered by ordinary occurrences, such as a 
door slamming or a car backfiring on the street. A person having q 
flashback may lose touch with reality and believe that the traumatic 
incident is happening all over again.



Mr. Chairman, the matter is that most veterans with PTSD also have 
other psychiatric disorders, which are a consequence of PTSD. These 
veterans have co-occurring disorders, which include depression, alcohol 
and/or drug abuse problems, panic, and/or other anxiety disorders.

The current conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq are the most continuous 
combat operations since Vietnam. Only one comprehensive study has 
examined the mental health impact of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, 
and that was performed by Charles W. Hoge, MD. This study looked at the 
experience of soldiers in the war zone and symptoms of psychological 
distress. Soldiers in Iraq are at risk for being killed or wounded 
themselves, are likely to have witnessed the suffering of others, and 
may have participated in killing or wounding others as part of combat 
operations. All of these activities have a demonstrated association 
with the development of PTSD. Hoge's study indicated that 94 percent of 
soldiers in Iraq reported receiving small-arms fire. In addition, 86 
percent of soldiers in Iraq reported knowing someone who was seriously 
injured or killed, 68 percent reported seeing dead or seriously injured 
Americans, and 51 percent reported handling or uncovering human 
remains. The majority, 77 percent, of soldiers deployed to Iraq 
reported shooting or directing fire at the enemy, 48 percent reported 
being responsible for the death of an enemy combatant, and 28 percent 
reported being responsible for the death of a noncombatant.

My amendment recognizes that these soldiers are first and foremost, 
human. They carry their experiences with them. Ask a Vietnam Veteran 
about the frequency of nightmares they experience, and one will realize 
that serving in the Armed Forces leaves a lasting impression, whether 
good or bad. My amendment ensures that no soldier is left behind. By 
directing the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase the number of 
medical facilities specializing in PTSD that are located in underserved 
urban areas, and conducting a concurrent study on increasing access to 
PTSD treatment at these facilities those soldiers will never feel 
forgotten or taken for granted. These soldiers can be certain that 
Members of Congress will ensure that they receive the necessary 
treatment to guarantee that their adjustment back into society is a 
successful one.

As the war in Iraq continues to drag on, and with our country 
continuing to send military personnel to Afghanistan, the military has 
been overwhelmed with returning soldiers suffering from mental health 
problems. Earlier this month, Col. Elspeth Ritchie, psychiatry 
consultant to the Army surgeon general, stated ''as the war has gone 
on, PTSD and other psychological effects of war have increased. The 
number of mental health workers that was adequate for a peacetime 
military is not adequate for a nation that's been at war.''

Mr. Chairman, according to surveys conducted of troops in Iraq, 15-20 
percent of Army soldiers have demonstrated signs of post-traumatic 
stress. Symptoms of this serious disorder include nightmares, 
flashbacks, emotional detachment, dissociation, insomnia, loss of 
appetite, memory loss, clinical depression, and anxiety. One year after 
returning from combat, approximately 35 percent of soldiers are seeking 
some kind of mental health treatment. Among soldiers still stationed in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, many incidents of abuse, including killings and 
rapes by U.S. soldiers, have been attributed to ethics lapses caused by 
the strain of combat.

Mr. Chairman, last Thursday, the Department of Defense released a 
report that stated ''current efforts fall significantly short'' in 
providing help for troops. Further, this report found that the 
psychological health needs of America's military service members, their 
families and their survivors pose a daunting and growing challenge to 
the Department of Defense.

I urge adoption of my amendment. And I thank the Chairman for his 
fine work in bringing this exceptional legislation to the House floor 
where it should receive an overwhelmingly favorable vote.