# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `09f905efae27dc3e32da335b29edb7a9`
`Mr. BENNET — 27 September 2010`

---


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today 
to honor the life and heroic service of Captain Dale A. Goetz. Captain 
Goetz, assigned to the 4th Infantry Division, based at Fort Carson, CO, 
died on August 30, 2010, of injuries sustained when an improvised 
explosive device detonated near his vehicle. Captain Goetz was serving 
in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in the Arghandab River Valley, 
Afghanistan. He was 43 years old.

A native of White, SD, Captain Goetz graduated in 1995 from Marantha 
Baptist Bible College in Watertown, WI, with a bachelor's degree. After 
serving in White for several years as a pastor, Captain Goetz enlisted 
in the Army in 2004 and served tours in Japan, Iraq and Afghanistan--
all with decoration.

During his years of service, Captain Goetz distinguished himself 
through his courage, dedication to his soldiers, and unremitting 
devotion to his faith. His skillful ministry comforted troops and made 
them more effective in the field, and he never hesitated to engage and 
counsel others who held beliefs different than his own.

Captain Goetz worked on the front lines of battle, serving in the 
most dangerous areas of Iraq and Afghanistan. He is remembered by those 
who knew him as a consummate professional with an unending commitment 
to excellence. His family remembers him as a dedicated husband and as a 
loving father to his three children.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' Captain 
Goetz's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by selflessly 
putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He lived with a 
sense of the highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Iraq and Afghanistan. And though his fate was uncertain, he 
pushed forward, counseling our soldiers and promoting the ideals we 
hold dear. For his service and the lives he touched, Captain Goetz will 
forever be remembered as one of our country's bravest.

To his wife Christina, his sons Landon, Caleb, and Joel, and his 
entire family--I cannot imagine the sorrow you must be feeling. I hope 
that, in time, the pain of your loss will be eased by your pride in 
Dale's service and by your knowledge that his country will never forget 
him. We are humbled by his service and his sacrifice.











 Staff Sergeant Casey J. Grochowiak


Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today to honor 
the life and heroic service of SSG Casey J. Grochowiak. Sergeant 
Grochowiak, assigned to the 4th Infantry Division, based in Fort 
Carson, CO, died on August 30, 2010, of injuries sustained when an 
improvised explosive device detonated near his patrol. Sergeant 
Grochowiak was serving in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in 
Malajat, Afghanistan. He was 34 years old.

A native of San Diego, CA, Sergeant Grochowiak graduated from Horizon 
Christian Fellowship Academy, where he met Celestina, his future wife, 
whom he married in 1995. After several years working in the 
construction industry, Sergeant Grochowiak changed direction to commit 
his life to defending his country. He enlisted in the


Army in 2000, serving two tours in Iraq and two tours in Afghanistan--
all with decoration.

During nearly 11 years of service, Sergeant Grochowiak distinguished 
himself through his courage, dedication to duty, and absolute 
commitment to his troops. Despite having received a medical waiver for 
his last tour in Afghanistan, Sergeant Grochowiak shipped out and 
fought on anyway, citing his obligation to protect his young soldiers.

Sergeant Grochowiak worked on the front lines of battle, serving in 
the most dangerous areas of Iraq and Afghanistan. He is remembered by 
those who knew him as a consummate professional with an unending 
commitment to excellence. His family remembers him as a dedicated son, 
husband, and as a loving father to his two children.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' Sergeant 
Grochowiak's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by selflessly 
putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He lived with a 
sense of the highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Iraq and Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield 
was uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Sergeant Grochowiak will forever be remembered as one of our 
country's bravest.

To Edward and Barbara, Sergeant Grochowiak's parents, Celestina, his 
wife, Matia and Deegan, his children, and his entire family, I cannot 
imagine the sorrow you must be feeling. I hope that, in time, the pain 
of your loss will be eased by your pride in Casey's service and by your 
knowledge that his country will never forget him. We are humbled by his 
service and his sacrifice.













Specialist Faith R. Hinkley


Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today to honor 
the life and heroic service of SPC Faith R. Hinkley. Specialist 
Hinkley, assigned to the 502nd Military Intelligence Battalion, based 
in Fort Lewis, WA, died on August 7, 2010, from wounds sustained during 
a firefight. Specialist Hinkley was serving in support of Operation 
Iraqi Freedom in Iskandariya, Iraq. She was 23 years old.

A native of Monte Vista, CO, Specialist Hinkley enlisted in the Army 
in 2007, much to the surprise of her friends and family. Having 
completed 1 year of classes at the University of Colorado in Colorado 
Springs, Specialist Hinkley changed course and became the family's 
fourth generation to serve in the military.

During her nearly 3 years of service, Specialist Hinkley 
distinguished herself through her courage, dedication to duty, and 
exceptional intelligence. Commanders recognized her extraordinary 
bravery and talent. In fact, on the day of her passing, Specialist 
Hinkley had just been promoted.

Specialist Hinkley worked on the front lines of battle, serving in 
the most dangerous areas of Iraq. She is remembered by those who knew 
her as a consummate professional with an unending commitment to 
excellence. Her family remembers her as a dedicated daughter who loved 
to serve her country. Her friends remember her loyalty, her willingness 
to listen, and her lifelong involvement in the community. From an early 
age, as a student in Monte Vista, Specialist Hinkley's talents were 
always on display as a mentor to younger girls.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' 
Specialist Hinkley's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by 
selflessly putting country first, she lived life to the fullest. She 
lived with a sense of the highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, she braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Iraq. And though her fate on the battlefield was uncertain, 
she pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her safety, and the 
freedoms we hold dear. For her service and the lives she touched, 
Specialist Hinkley will forever be remembered as one of our country's 
bravest.

To David and Annavee, Specialist Hinkley's parents, Matthew, her 
brother, and her entire family, I cannot imagine the sorrow you must be 
feeling. I hope that, in time, the pain of your loss will be eased by 
your pride in Faith's service and by your knowledge that her country 
will never forget her. We are humbled by her service and her sacrifice.












Staff Sergeant Kevin J. Kessler


Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today to honor 
the life and heroic service of SSG Kevin J. Kessler. Sergeant Kessler, 
assigned to the 4th Infantry Division, based in Fort Carson, CO, died 
on August 30, 2010, of injuries sustained when an improvised explosive 
device detonated near his military vehicle. Sergeant Kessler was 
serving in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in the Arghandab River 
Valley, Afghanistan. He was 32 years old.

A native of Canton, OH, Sergeant Kessler enlisted in the Army in 
2004, eager to serve his country. In 1996, he graduated from East 
Canton High School. After spending several years as a truck driver, 
Sergeant Kessler decided to commit his life to military service. He 
served three tours of duty: two in Iraq and one in Afghanistan, and all 
with decoration.

During his 6 years of service, Sergeant Kessler distinguished himself 
through his courage, skillful leadership, and perhaps most importantly, 
an unflagging dedication to his troops. Sergeant Kessler's unyielding 
sense of duty was heightened still by the brave efforts of the soldiers 
under his command.

Sergeant Kessler worked on the front lines of battle, serving in the 
most dangerous areas of Iraq and Afghanistan. He is remembered by those 
who knew him as a consummate professional with an unending commitment 
to excellence. His family remembers him as a dedicated son, husband, 
and as a proud expectant father. They remember that, from an early age, 
he loved football and cheered for his favorite teams, the Denver 
Broncos and the Cleveland Browns.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' Sergeant 
Kessler's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by selflessly 
putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He lived with a 
sense of the highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Iraq and Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield 
was uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Sergeant Kessler will forever be remembered as one of our 
country's bravest.

To Sergeant Kessler's father and stepmother, Lawrence and Sue, his 
mother and stepfather, Kristine and Rodney, his wife, Adrian, and his 
entire family--I cannot imagine the sorrow you must be feeling. I hope 
that, in time, the pain of your loss will be eased by your pride in 
Kevin's service and by your knowledge that his country will never 
forget him. We are humbled by his service and his sacrifice.











Private First Class diego M. Montoya


Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today to honor 
the life and heroic service of PFC Diego M. Montoya. Private Montoya, 
assigned to the 89th Military Police Brigade, based in Fort Hood, TX, 
died on September 2, 2010, of injuries sustained from indirect fire. 
Private Montoya was serving in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in 
Laghman Province, Afghanistan. He was 20 years old.

A native of Texas, Private Montoya graduated in 2009 from Taft High 
School in San Antonio. He was an active participant in the school's 
ROTC program, and he always looked forward to the day when he could 
finally wear a service uniform. Private Montoya enlisted in the Army 
after graduation, and he deployed for Afghanistan in April 2010.

During his 13 months of service, Private Montoya distinguished 
himself through his dedication to duty and extraordinary strength of 
character. Even as an ROTC student in San Antonio, Private Montoya's 
instructor recognized his remarkable maturity and unwavering loyalty to 
his classmates, family and friends. These characteristics foreshadowed 
his excellence as a soldier.



Private Montoya worked on the front lines of battle, serving in the 
most dangerous areas of Afghanistan. He is remembered by those who knew 
him as a consummate professional with an unending commitment to the 
uniform. His family remembers Private Montoya's courage as a soldier, 
but also his warm heart and willingness to do anything to help those 
close to him.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' Private 
Montoya's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by selflessly 
putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He lived with a 
sense of the highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield was 
uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Private Montoya will forever be remembered as one of our 
country's bravest.

To his parents, his brothers and sisters, and his entire family, I 
cannot imagine the sorrow you must be feeling. I hope that, in time, 
the pain of your loss will be eased by your pride in Diego's service 
and by your knowledge that his country will never forget him. We are 
humbled by his service and his sacrifice.












 Staff Sergeant Matthew J. West


Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today to honor 
the life and heroic service of SSG Matthew J. West. Sergeant West, 
assigned to the 71st Ordnance Group, based in Fort Carson, CO, died on 
August 30, 2010, of injuries sustained when an improvised explosive 
device detonated near his military vehicle. Sergeant West was serving 
in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in the Arghandab River Valley, 
Afghanistan. He was 36 years old.

A native of Gaylord, MI, Sergeant West graduated from Northern 
Michigan University with a bachelor's degree in 1997. After returning 
home for several years, Sergeant West enlisted in the Army in 2004 and 
served three tours of duty: two in Afghanistan and one in Iraq, and all 
with decoration.

During his 6 years of service, Sergeant West distinguished himself 
through his courage, dedication to duty, and willingness to take on one 
of the most dangerous and skillful jobs in the Army--defusing bombs. 
Even as a student at Gaylord High School, Sergeant West exhibited this 
same extraordinary character by assuming any role needed of him on the 
football field. Although he was one of the team's smallest players, 
Sergeant Kessler never hesitated to punch above his weight, even when 
the coach put him on the offensive line.

Sergeant West worked on the front lines of battle, serving in the 
most dangerous areas of Iraq and Afghanistan. He is remembered by those 
who knew him as a consummate professional with an unending commitment 
to excellence. His family remembers him as a dedicated son, husband, 
and as a loving father to his three children. They remember his warm 
nature and broad smile.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' Sergeant 
West's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by selflessly 
putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He lived with a 
sense of the highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Iraq and Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield 
was uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Sergeant West will forever be remembered as one of our 
country's bravest.

To John and Marcia, Sergeant West's parents, Carolyn, his wife, 
Tyler, Joseph, and Annalise, his children, and his entire family, I 
cannot imagine the sorrow you must be feeling. I hope that, in time, 
the pain of your loss will be eased by your pride in Matthew's service 
and by your knowledge that his country will never forget him. We are 
humbled by his service and his sacrifice.
