# CONSTITUTIONAL CHECKS AND BALANCES
## `0a09e94d1ad3111508e14cde6e042349`
`Mr. HODES â€” 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Yarmuth, let me start by saying how proud I am to stand with my 
colleagues, other new Members of the class of 2006, to talk about an 
initiative which you began, the article I initiative, to talk about 
reasserting the constitutional balance of power in Washington.

For me, in coming to Congress as a new Member of this House from New 
Hampshire, it was absolutely fundamental to what I talked about in my 
campaign that the people of New Hampshire sent me to Congress to 
restore accountability, integrity, and oversight to government. They 
sent me here because what I said to them and what we now see is that 
Congress was a broken branch. Congress had not been exercising its 
oversight and accountability functions. And when Congress does not 
exercise its important power, its important right, its important 
obligation to the people to exercise oversight and accountability over 
the executive branch and other branches of government, things get 
unbalanced. It was that sense of checks and balances that our Founding 
Fathers put into the Constitution, and they put it in there for a 
reason.

They won a Revolutionary War against an empire, the British empire, 
with an imperial ruler at the top, the King of England. We wanted to 
make sure that we had a different form of government; that we had a 
form of government where the people were the top dog in the fight; that 
the ruler would never become imperial. That is why we have a President, 
we have a Congress which is divided between the House and the Senate.

In article I, section 1, our founders were very clear. They said, 
''All legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress 
of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of 
Representatives.'' What I saw and many of us saw when we ran was a 
President who was abusing presidential power in an unprecedented way. 
This wasn't a matter of parties. It was this President abusing power in 
an unprecedented way, and it could have happened whatever party that 
President was in, but this is what we saw, and we ran.

The article I initiative, which you began, which we have joined, and 
which we are spreading, seeks to heighten the public consciousness of 
the importance of checks and balances in our system. As newly elected 
Democratic Members of Congress, we feel with particular importance the 
obligation we have to reassert the power that the Founding Fathers 
wisely gave to Congress. When we came, we took an oath of office to 
protect and defend and uphold the Constitution. Article I is the first 
article, and it is the first article for a reason. And we are well on 
our way as we have begun to exercise oversight throughout Congress with 
hundreds of hearings held in this 110th Congress on many issues and 
especially the war in Iraq and what has happened with this President 
and this administration. In the Oversight and Government Reform 
Committee, we have held oversight hearings about administration 
interference with the work of GSA, the folks who deal with Federal 
buildings, turning it into an arm of politics; administration 
interference with science at NASA; administration incompetence with 
FEMA, delivering formaldehyde-filled trailers to the victims of 
Katrina; incompetence and mismanagement by the State Department, 
failing to exercise oversight over contractors in Iraq, the Blackwater 
scandal that is beginning to emerge now. We have been holding the 
hearings that constitute the function of Congress not just to make the 
law but to exercise the oversight that keeps things in checks and 
balances.

I am delighted to be with you tonight. We are going to talk about 
numbers of ways in which we are reasserting Congress' power and taking 
steps to bring the people back to the People's House and serve the 
interests of the American people.