---
---

# None
## `0a0fdf79e01e9e68be9c92407eaabf9c`
`Mr. LEVIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, while our troops have done everything, 
and more, of what has been asked of them, while they have risked their 
all and given their all, the Iraqi political leaders remain frozen by 
their own history, unwilling to take the political risks that only they 
can take.

If there is any hope of forcing the Iraqi political leaders to take 
responsibility for their own country and to keep the commitments they 
made to meet the political benchmarks that they set and to make the 
compromises that only they can make, it is to have a timetable to begin 
reducing American forces and to redeploy those forces to a more limited 
support mission instead of being everybody's target in the middle of a 
civil war.

We need to send a clear message to the Iraqi leaders that we will not 
be in Iraq indefinitely, that we will not be their security blanket 
forever. That is what the Levin-Reed amendment would do if we are 
allowed to vote on it. Our amendment would require the President to 
begin reducing the number of American troops in Iraq within 4 months of 
enactment.

It would require transitioning the mission of our remaining military 
forces to force protection, training of Iraqi security forces, and 
targeted counterterrorism missions. Our amendment would require that 
the transition to those limited missions be completed by April 30 of 
next year. Finally, and importantly, it would call for a comprehensive 
diplomatic, political, and economic strategy, including sustained 
engagement with Iraq's neighbors and seeking an appointment of an 
international mediator under the auspices of the U.N. Security Council 
in order to try to bring stability to Iraq.

Some have criticized our amendment because it contains a timeline for 
the completion of the transition to new missions. We received similar 
criticism in the past about the timeline for the commencement of the 
transition. Timelines need to be established as the only way to force a 
change of course in Iraq and to force the Iraqis to accept 
responsibility for their own future. It is human nature to put off 
difficult decisions. Passage of our amendment would serve as a forcing 
mechanism and serve to stimulate action by the Iraqi Government to 
reach a political settlement.



Delaying action until the receipt of the administration's plan in 
September would only delay the time when Congress applies the needed 
pressure. There is no indication that Iraqi political leaders will 
compromise without our pressure. Indeed, there is every indication they 
will not. As Secretary Gates stated in April:




 Debate in Congress . . . has been helpful in demonstrating 


 to the Iraqis that American patience is limited . . . The 


 debate itself and . . . the strong feelings expressed in the 


 Congress about the timetable probably has had a positive 


 effect in terms of communicating to the Iraqis that this is 


 not an open-ended commitment.


There is no indication the administration is willing to change 
course. For years, they have deluded themselves and the Nation with 
claims of progress while Iraqis descended into sectarian violence and 
chaos. On July 4, President Bush repeated his call for patience which 
he has made so many times over the years.

After more than 4 years, over 3,600 U.S. deaths, seven times that 
many wounded, and expenditures of $10 billion a month that we are 
borrowing from the future to finance this war in Iraq, the President's 
pleas for patience not only have a hollow ring, it is exactly the wrong 
message to the Iraqi leaders. Our message should be we are out of 
patience, and the refusal of the Iraqi leaders to work out their 
political differences is something which is no longer acceptable.

Congress attempted to respond to last November's election with a vote 
that we made on April 26. We adopted a bill that did provide a 
timetable to begin the reduction of U.S. forces in Iraq, the beginning 
of a phased troop reduction, redeployment in no more than 120 days, and 
a transition to a more limited mission focusing on counterterrorism, 
force protection, and training and logistical support for the Iraqi 
Army. President Bush vetoed our bill shortly thereafter.

Senator McConnell made a statement which was, I believe, very direct 
and very accurate, when he assessed not too long ago that ''the 
handwriting is on the wall that we are going in a different direction 
in the fall.'' That Presidential veto does not wash away the 
handwriting on the wall. It only makes the handwriting clearer and 
firmer that there is going to be a change of direction in Iraq.

So the question is: Why wait? Why not decide on a change of course 
now to save months of lost and wounded lives and huge additional 
expenditure of funds?

The clearer the handwriting on the wall is to the Iraqi political 
leaders and the quicker they read it and accept it, the greater the 
prospect for political settlement.

The clearer the handwriting on the wall is that the open-ended 
commitment of President Bush is over, not just rhetorically but in 
reality, the greater chance that an even wider civil war can be 
avoided.

There are some who acknowledge that a change of course is needed in 
Iraq, including U.S. troop reductions but who then say not now. But 
surely time is not working for us in Iraq. The sooner we shift strategy 
to force Iraqis to take responsibility, the better.

If we wish to improve the chance of a positive report on political 
progress in September, we need to put great pressure on Iraqi political 
leaders in July. We cannot and must not continue to have the lives of 
American servicemembers held hostage to Iraqi political intrigue and 
intransigence.

If we can get to the Levin-Reed amendment, if we can overcome the 
filibuster, and if we can adopt the Levin-Reed amendment which provides 
for the beginning of the reduction of our forces in Iraq in 120 days 
and transitioning to more limited missions, no more than 120 days after 
enactment, if we can adopt an amendment which says we will complete 
that transition by April 30, 2008, if we can adopt our amendment which 
provides for the appointment of an international mediator under U.N. 
auspices, we believe we will have passed the best chance of success in 
Iraq, and we will have adopted the only course of action which has a 
chance of pressuring the Iraqi leaders to do what only they can do.

The clock is ticking. We are losing more American lives and more 
American resources every day we delay. The time has come to set 
deadlines, to reduce our forces in Iraq, to transition to the new 
limited missions, and to embark on a comprehensive, diplomatic, 
political, and economic strategy to bring stability to Iraq.

I yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1




























U.S. Senate,



















Committee on Armed Services,




















Washington, DC, May 9, 2007.


 Hon. Condoleezza Rice,


 Secretary of State,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Madam Secretary: I am writing in connection with your 


 letter of January 20, 2007 in which you advised me regarding 


 a set of benchmarks that the Government of Iraq has set for 


 itself.



 You wrote that ''Iraq's Policy Committee on National 


 Security agreed upon a set of political, security, and 


 economic benchmarks and an associated timeline in September 


 2006. These were reaffirmed by the Presidency Council on 


 October 16, 2006, and referenced by the Iraq Study Group; the 


 relevant document (enclosed) was posted at that time on the 


 President of Iraq's website.''



 Yesterday, I met with Mowaffak al-Rubaie, Prime Minister 


 Maliki's national security adviser. During the course of our 


 meeting, Dr. Rubaie stated that the Presidency Council never 


 reaffirmed the benchmarks. He was adamant on this point even 


 after I showed him the statement in your letter.



 This is an important point as the Presidency Council, whose 


 three members, President Jalal Talabani (Kurd), Deputy 


 President 'Adil 'Abd al-Mahdi (Shia Muslim) and Deputy 


 President Tariq al-Hashimi (Sunni Muslim), are elected by the 


 Council of Representatives and represent the three major 


 ethnic groups of the country.



 Earlier today, State Department Spokesman Sean McCormack 


 stated ''These are the benchmarks that they've laid out for 


 themselves. We didn't come up with them. They came up with 


 them. And they need to be seen in the eyes of the Iraqi 


 people as delivering for the Iraqi people.''



 It seems to me that it would make a difference if the 


 benchmarks and associated timeline were only approved by an 


 advisory group as compared to the Presidency Council.



 Accordingly, please confirm that the benchmarks and 


 associated timeline, which you attached to your January 30, 


 2007 letter, were reaffirmed by the Presidency Council after 


 being agreed upon by the Policy Committee on National 


 Security, as stated in your letter.



 Thank you for your assistance.





 Sincerely,



























 Carl Levin,


 Chairman.