# None
## `0a13c66c6505e3298ea9146e822d2661`
`Ms. STABENOW — 27 February 2008`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about what is 
currently happening on the floor of the Senate and what I am hopeful 
will happen.

Our leader, Senator Reid, has one more time brought us--and rightly 
so--to a point to debate and try to move forward on changing course in 
the war in Iraq. There have been 5 years of war, with the largest 
expenditure now of the Federal Government in terms of monthly 
expenditures, and certainly in terms of loss of life. It goes on every 
day, day after day. All you have to do is look at the newspaper and see 
that families continue to pay a huge price for this war.

I stood on the floor of this Senate 5 years ago and was one of 23 
Members who voted ''no'' on going into this war. But I have spent every 
other moment, every other vote, doing everything I can to support our 
troops, to make sure I do everything I can to make sure we honor them 
through our efforts to equip them and make sure they have the 
resources, and that when they come home and put on the veteran's cap 
that we are, in fact, providing the health care and the resources they 
need. I am proud to be part of a caucus, a new majority that has placed 
veterans health insurance, health care as a top priority to make that 
happen.

But I often think back to the discussions before my vote, and 
discussions with my husband, who is a 14-year veteran of the Air Force 
and the Air National Guard, and him reminding me that the best way to 
support American troops, the best way to support our troops is to give 
them the right mission. The second thing is to make sure they have the 
resources they need. The third thing is to make sure there is a clear 
exit strategy for that mission.


I did not support that mission and believe there was not the evidence 
that was needed to carry on that mission. I have supported those 
resources, however, that they need.

Now it is important, it is critical, that we as a body, as a 
Congress, come together to support the exit strategy, the effort to 
change the mission that needs to occur in Iraq, to be able to bring our 
people home, to be able to stop the multiple deployments, redeployments 
that are going on, and that we refocus on those areas of the world and 
those groups such as al-Qaida that truly are a threat to us. That means 
Afghanistan, that means other kinds of strategies to be able to truly 
keep us safe. That is what we need to do.

The most important thing is to keep us safe as a country, to be smart 
about our strategy. That is what we are debating, here: whether we are 
going to be smart about our strategy to keep us safe, whether we are 
going to pay attention to the daily loss of life in Iraq, and whether 
we are going to pay attention to the almost $15 billion a month that is 
being spent on that war, which is now a civil war, that is not being 
invested back home in America.

That is what I want to speak about for a moment, understanding that 
the most important thing is the loss of life and what is happening to 
our troops and their families.

As I said, I am extremely proud of the fact that we made a very top 
priority for us in the new majority coming in the full funding of 
veterans health care. We have done that. We have tackled the problems 
we have seen with Walter Reed and the inability for our troops, as they 
move between systems, to get the effective care they need by passing 
the Wounded Warriors legislation.

We have continued to bring forward other efforts to be able to 
address what I consider to be the abuse of our troops by continual 
redeployment without enough dwell time, rest time, for them to be here 
at home, as the Army Manual would require.

But we also have another very important piece of this which goes to 
what is happening when we have almost $15 billion a month that is being 
diverted from our economy, which from Michigan surely looks like a 
recession. I cannot speak to every other part of the country, but from 
our economy and our families and our communities, it is being spent on 
a war that a majority of Americans--not a majority of Democrats--a 
majority of Americans--Democrats, Republicans, and Independents--people 
of all persuasions in all States are saying: We no longer want to go in 
this direction. We want to change this mission. We want to bring our 
people home.

But we are now getting ready to do a budget. The distinguished Acting 
President pro tempore today is on the Budget Committee. He has served 
with distinction in the House and now in the Senate. Mr. President, you 
know as well as I do that we are now grappling with very tough 
decisions about how to address the needs here in America.

I think that on top of the issues of national policy and how to keep 
us safe, and the loss of life, and how to support our troops, we have 
to grapple with the fact that last year, for instance, when we passed, 
with overwhelming bipartisan support in the Senate, an effort to extend 
health care, health insurance to 10 million children of working 
families, the President vetoed it, saying it was too much money. Yet it 
was about half of the cost of 1 month of what we are spending in Iraq 
today.

Investing in children, healthy children in our country, of working 
families who unfortunately are working in jobs where they do not have 
health insurance and do not have enough of a wage to be able to afford 
the $1,000 a month premium or more that they would have to pay--do we 
focus on supporting those families and change this direction or do we 
continue down this road of saying no to our children?

We have the opportunity to create new jobs in the energy economy. In 
Michigan, we are moving full speed ahead on alternative energy, and not 
only in our vehicles. But windmills and


solar and biofuels and all of these things take partnerships and 
investments.

We have an energy tax provision--a measure for which we came one vote 
short of being able to override one of the multitude of filibusters 
that has gone on on this floor: a historic level of filibusters 
stopping us at every turn--we came one vote short. We are talking about 
having some resources to be able to put into tax incentives to be able 
to produce alternative energies and the infrastructures so the biofuels 
can actually get to the pump so you not only can buy a E-85 car but get 
E-85 at the pump. It takes some investments to be able to do that.

We have been told no on being able to put dollars into that area. Yet 
the amount of money we are talking about is less than 2 months of 
spending in Iraq.

Infrastructure, roads and bridges. We saw last year what happened in 
Minnesota in terms of a huge bridge collapse and what happened with 
human life and what happened to the community involved. We have roads 
and bridges across our country, water and sewer systems that are aging, 
that need a facelift, and we need to be able to get some additional 
dollars so we can bring ourselves into the modern age for much of our 
infrastructure. Yet we are told again: No, there are no resources to 
put money into our infrastructure. However, we are rebuilding roads in 
Iraq, we are rebuilding schools in Iraq.

In fact, one of the original items I will never forget was to put 
wireless technology into schools. That was in the budget, but it wasn't 
the American budget, it was the Iraqi reconstruction budget. I have 
been working for years to get technologies in our schools, new 
technology, because every single student is going to face, at a 
minimum, working with a computer, whether you work at a gas station or 
whether you work at a high-tech company. Yet we can't do that in 
America. We have been told by this administration and by those who had 
been in the majority for 6 years: No. But at the same time, it was in 
the budget for Iraq.

We now find ourselves in a situation with a tremendous housing 
crisis. In my State of Michigan, it has frankly masked a larger 
economic crisis, where people have been losing their jobs, they are 
losing their incomes, seeing all their costs go up, but they have had 
that equity in their home that was keeping them going. All of a sudden, 
all of the values go down, and we are seeing a collapse in the housing 
market which has rippled out way beyond housing now into our capital 
markets, into our entire economy. Yet when we come to the floor--and we 
are going to be asking shortly, after we vote to end this filibuster 
that is going on, on the change in the Iraq mission--we are going to be 
asking to come together around a housing proposal that, frankly, I 
think is pretty modest. It is important, it is good, it is the right 
thing to do, but it certainly is something within the realm of 
reasonableness. Yet I know it is going to be difficult to be able to 
get this passed. The cost of it, again, is about 2 weeks in Iraq, to be 
able to focus on one of the most devastating crises going on in America 
today.

Most middle-class families save through equity in their home. That is 
how most people are able to get into the middle class. We are talking 
about people who have worked hard, played by the rules, done all the 
right things, got a job, saved up the downpayment, were able to get a 
home, and then find themselves in a situation where they are looking 
around saying: Wait a minute. What is going on here? What about me? 
What is happening in our economy? I need some help. We are trying to do 
that. I hope we are going to be able to come together and do that. But 
if we hear one more time: No, we can't do that, we can't afford it--we 
are talking about less than 2 weeks of what is being spent in Iraq.

How many times have we heard all the comments about Leave No Child 
Behind, about the fact that we are not keeping our promises as it 
relates to education. We passed new high standards. We all support the 
high standards. What we promised was that with that would come 
resources to help children, help schools succeed. We have seen dramatic 
underfunding. Again, in this President's budget, he eliminates 48 
different education programs, including efforts that focus on 
vocational education and other things that are important for the 
future--48 different programs. We will be told that if we try to invest 
in education, that it is too much. It is too much. We can't afford to 
keep the promise of Leave No Child Behind.

We passed, on a bipartisan basis, something called the America 
Competes Act. I wish to congratulate my colleagues. This was a great 
bipartisan effort. I know the Senator from Tennessee, Mr. Alexander, 
was a real champion of that. It focuses on math and science and 
technology and investments in the future. I wish we had seen those 
investments fully authorized, fully funded in the President's budget--
health research to save lives, science research, the National Science 
Foundation, those things that will make us competitive for the future. 
Every other country is racing to invest in science. We see China is 
racing, along with Japan and South Korea and other countries around the 
world, to get to that next technology, whether it is advanced battery 
technology research, whether it is biotechnology, whether it is new 
cures in health care. Yet we, the greatest country in the world, are 
seeing those things cut, but $15 billion a month is being spent in Iraq 
which is, by the way, not paid for and goes right on to the deficit for 
our children to pay for in the future. These priorities don't make 
sense. They make no sense when we look to the future.

I would like to ask the President: How about just 1 month for 
America? How about just 1 month? We will take 1 month of $15 billion 
invested to help us with jobs, keeping American jobs here, opportunity 
through education and innovation, helping our own families with health 
care, and people being able to keep their homes. How about just 1 month 
for America?

This debate we are having on the floor about Iraq is incredibly 
important on so many different levels, and that is why I appreciate 
Senator Reid bringing us to this point. There are other pieces of this 
that we are committed to addressing such as a modern GI bill. My father 
went to school on the GI bill after World War II. We ought to be doing 
the same thing for our returning veterans. It will cost some dollars. 
Are we going to hear once again: Well, we can't afford it. We can't 
afford to invest in our veterans. I hope not.

The reality is there is a great connection between what is happening 
now in terms of filibustering our effort to move forward, to change 
direction in Iraq--one more time, one more filibuster--and what we want 
to do next, which is focus on the incredibly serious housing crisis in 
America. There is a connection because we are saying that not only are 
we not doing the smartest thing to keep us safe from a strategic, from 
a national security standpoint, we are also using dollars--precious 
dollars, taxpayer dollars--in a way that is actually making us less 
safe at home by undercutting our ability to have a strong economy, 
strong families, to support those who are in the middle class, who are 
trying to work hard to get into the middle class, struggling to stay in 
the middle class. The majority of Americans find themselves in great 
jeopardy right now on a number of fronts. This is the time they look to 
their Government to play a role to help create opportunity, to be able 
to make strategic investments here at home that will make sure we can 
continue to have the American way of life of which we are so proud.

So this matters. This matters. I am looking forward to the time when 
we are going to change that direction in Iraq, and I hope it comes 
soon. I hope we are able to say to our men and women who are on their 
third or fourth redeployment now: Job well done. Thank you for your 
service. You can come home now. Hopefully, they will come home to a 
veterans system that works for them, that they will come home to a GI 
bill of rights that creates a way for them to have opportunity, that 
they will come home to an economy that works for them and their 
families. That is our goal. We are going to keep focusing on this issue 
until we create that change.

I yield the floor, and I note the absence of a quorum.