---
---

# ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
## `0a16c726fc3ce5bae23b1d585542ed4e`
`Mr. CHAFFETZ — 6 November 2009`

---


Mr. CHAFFETZ. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, again, we congratulate the New York Yankees, but we 
also recognize that the administration, the people who work there, the 
guy who sells the popcorn, and the fans who go there are also going to 
have to deal with the realities of what's happening and what will 
potentially happen with this health care bill that we are dealing with.

One of the deep concerns that we have about what these fans, the 
players, and particularly their wives, are going to have to deal with 
in our potentially passing this 1,990-page bill is that there are 118 
new boards, bureaucracies, commissions, and programs that we believe 
are created within that bill. Let me just read the list. I'm going to 
go through this as fast as I possibly can. Bear with me here.

The retiree reserve trust fund; the grant program for wellness 
programs to small employers; the grant program for State health access 
programs; the program of administrative simplification found on page 
76; the health benefits advisory committee; the health choices 
administration; the qualified health benefits plan ombudsman; the 
health insurance exchange; a program for technical assistance to 
employees of small businesses buying exchange coverage as found on page 
191; a mechanism for insurance risk pooling to be established by health 
choices commissioner; the health insurance exchange trust fund; the 
State-based health insurance exchanges as found on page 197; the grant 
program for health insurance cooperatives; a public health insurance 
option as found on page 211; an ombudsman for public health insurance 
option.

No. 16, an account for receipts and disbursements for public health 
insurance option; the telehealth advisory committee; a demonstration 
program providing reimbursement for culturally and linguistically 
appropriate services as found on page 617; a demonstration program for 
shared decisionmaking using patient decision aids as articulated on 
page 648; an accountable care organization pilot program under 
Medicare; an independent patient-centered medical home pilot program 
under Medicare.

No. 22, a community-based medical home pilot program under Medicare; 
an independence at home demonstration program; the center for 
comparative effectiveness research as found on page 734; the 
comparative effectiveness research commission; the patient ombudsman 
for comparative effectiveness research; a quality assurance and 
performance improvement program for skilled nursing facilities.



No. 28, the quality assurance and improvement program for nursing 
facilities; a special focus facility program for skilled nursing 
facilities; special focus facility program for nursing facilities; the 
national independent monitor pilot program for skilled nursing 
facilities and nursing facilities, as found on page 859; a 
demonstration program for approved teaching health centers with respect 
to Medicare GME; pilot program to develop anti-fraud compliance systems 
for Medicare providers.

We are up to No. 33. We have to get to 118. There is no possible way 
that this body understands the complexity and what all of these 
programs do--that's the point--let alone the American people. We need 
time to digest this. Somehow the President wants to take more than 60 
days to study a program because it's of deep significance to what we 
will do or not do in Afghanistan; yet we have hours to digest what's 
going to affect 16-plus percent of our economy in all of these 
different programs.

No. 34, the special inspector general for the health insurance 
exchange; the medical home pilot program under Medicare, as found on 
page 1,058; accountable care organization pilot program under Medicaid; 
the nursing facility supplemental payment program; a demonstration 
program for Medicaid coverage to stabilize emergency medical conditions 
in institutions for mental diseases; comparative effectiveness research 
trust fund; ''identifiable office or program'' within CMS to ''provide 
for improved coordination between Medicare and Medicaid in the case of 
dual eligibles,'' as found on page 1,191; the center for medicare and 
medicaid innovation. Again, this is No. 41 on the list.



No. 42, public health investment fund; No. 43, scholarships for 
service in health professional needs areas; program for training 
medical residents in community-based settings; grant program for 
training in dentistry programs; public health workforce corps; the 
public health workforce scholarship program, as found on page 1,254; 
No. 48 on the list, public health workforce loan forgiveness program; 
No. 49, grant program for innovations in interdisciplinary care; No. 
50, advisory committee on health workforce evaluation and assessment.

Madam Speaker, I would like to inquire as to how much time we have 
remaining?