# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `0a23023d8a8111f9fbaa0d9da7ebb265`
`Mrs. SHAHEEN — 18 May 2009`

---


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Madam President, I wish to express my sympathy over the 
loss of Army SPC Adam Kuligowski, a 21-year-old from Derry, NH. 
Kuligowski died on April 6, 2009 in Bagram, Afghanistan. Specialist 
Kuligowski was a signals intelligence analyst assigned to the Special 
Troops Battalion, 101st Airborne Division.

Specialist Kuligowski grew up in Derry, NH, and attended Gilbert H. 
Hood Middle School and Pinkerton Academy. He had lived all over the 
world including South Korea, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Honduras, and Utah, 
before he enlisted in the military in October 2006. Specialist 
Kuligowski had been in Afghanistan for about a year and was scheduled 
to return home this summer.

Specialist Kuligowski served with honor and distinction throughout 
his young military career, earning the National Defense Service Medal, 
the Afghanistan Campaign Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service 
Medal, the Army Service Ribbon and the NATO Medal. New Hampshire is 
proud of Specialist Kuligowski's service to and sacrifice for our 
country. He, and the thousands of brave men and women of the U.S. Armed 
Forces serving today, deserve America's highest honor and recognition.

Specialist Kuligowski is survived by his parents, Michael and Tracie 
Kuligowski of Derry, his grandparents, Stanley and Phyllis Kuligowski, 
two brothers and a sister. He will be missed dearly by all those who 
knew him.

I ask my colleagues to join me and all Americans in honoring U.S. 
Army Specialist Adam Kuligowski.













Specialist Craig R. Hamilton


Madam President, I wish to express my sympathy over the loss of U.S. 
Army SPC Craig R. Hamilton, a 35-year-old native of Nashua, NH. 
Specialist Hamilton died on March 27 at Fort Sam Houston in San 
Antonio, TX.

Born in Nashua in 1974, Specialist Hamilton was raised and educated 
in nearby Milford. After graduating from Milford High School in 1992, 
he joined the U.S. Marine Corps, rising to the rank of corporal before 
being honorably discharged in 1996. Hamilton spent 11 years back home 
in Milford before deciding to once again serve his country by enlisting 
in the U.S. Army in 2007. He was assigned to Fort Sam Houston where he 
was recovering from a shoulder injury.

New Hampshire is proud of Specialist Hamilton's service to and 
sacrifice for our country. His decision to reenlist in the U.S. Army 
following his time in the Marine Corps demonstrates a deep commitment 
to duty and service for which his country will forever be grateful. He, 
and the thousands of brave men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces 
serving today, deserve America's highest honor and recognition.

Specialist Hamilton is survived by his wife Stacey; his father and 
stepmother Chuck and Kathy Hamilton; his mother Karen Hamilton; and his 
brothers Jon and Adam. He will be missed dearly by all those who knew 
him.

I ask my colleagues to join me and all Americans in honoring U.S. 
Army SPC Craig Hamilton.
