---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `0a30a67c804e0eb97842c0d5c48182ae`
`Mr. WARNER — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I say to the Senator most respectfully, I 
know no one over here who wants to try to do a precipitous withdrawal 
or lessen our efforts against al-Qaida. As a matter of fact, we want to 
reinforce our efforts against al-Qaida. We can go back and argue the 
numerical presence of al-Qaida at the time we went in. I do recall that 
very vividly and conducted many hearings in the Armed Services 
Committee. Al-Qaida was not high on the scope. There was mention of it. 
We have to deal with the facts that exist now, and it is clear, for 
whatever reason, they are now in that area in significant numbers 
larger than when we went in. I, personally, feel it is not as a 
consequence of our military action thus far. They simply see the 
terrific divisions between the Sunni culture and the culture of the 
Shia, and they are trying to foment among those two venerable religious 
cultures as much fighting as they possibly can. I think we both have to 
agree, to that extent, they have been successful.

Clearly, al-Qaida has as its main goal, at such time as possible, to 
bring about further harm to the United States of America. There is no 
doubt in my mind, and I am sure there is no doubt in the mind of the 
Senator from Illinois. So I think anything that is portrayed as a 
failure of our commitment in Iraq could be utilized, as I said, for 
recruitment of their troops, whether in Iraq, Afghanistan or elsewhere 
in the world.