# MEMORIAL TRIBUTE FOR CAPTAIN JENNIFER HARRIS, USMC
## `0a44b723adfa14f379cf4b9f6b5cd4b8`
`Ms. GRANGER — 20 June 2008`

---


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Marine Captain 
Jennifer Harris, who was killed in a CH-46 crash outside of Baghdad on 
February 7, 2007.

Captain Harris embodied many of the great traits our men and women 
are displaying both at home and abroad in three theaters of war. 
Captain Harris was dedicated to her Nation, her Corps, and to the Iraqi 
people.

Captain Harris was a member of the United States Naval Academy's 
class of 2000 and graduated with an honors degree in political science 
and a minor in Spanish. She was a graduate of the Marine Aviation 
Weapons and Tactics Instructor course in Yuma, Arizona. Accordingly, 
she served as a primary tactics instructor for her squadron, HMM-364. 
As the pilot training officer and lead instructor pilot, she was 
responsible for training new copilots and evaluating seasoned pilots 
for advanced designations.

Captain Harris was one of only four Marine officers selected by the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense to represent the U.S. Marine Corps 
in the 2007 Senate Youth Program. She was to participate in the program 
after her return from her last deployment to Iraq.

At the time of her death, Captain Harris was serving with HMM-364 as 
a CH-46 helicopter pilot in the Al Anbar province of Iraq, performing 
assault support, casualty evacuation, and combat raid missions. She 
gave her life so that the Iraqi people might have an opportunity for a 
better life. This was her third combat deployment in support of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom, including the initial invasion operation from 
February to October 2003.

I want to extend my heartfelt condolences to Captain Jennifer 
Harris's family and hope that they are able to find comfort in the 
knowledge that Captain Harris's countless selfless acts, including her 
ultimate selfless act, helped to provide opportunity for the people of 
Iraq.
