# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `0a4678b58aa7fd5e41dafd8913b17fd7`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 29 March 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairwoman, let me thank the 
chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, Carolyn Kilpatrick, and 
Mr. Bobby Scott for joining with us as the Congressional Black Caucus 
so that we could really emphasize what compassion and the American 
dream is all about and equate it to the Congressional Black Caucus 
budget that really responds to the tragedy that has occurred under this 
administration.

The surplus, as you can see, that we had in 2000 under the Bush 
administration declines $8.4 trillion. That is what we attack.

In fact, the Congressional Black Caucus budget reduces the deficit 
$107 billion less of a deficit than even the Democratic budget and $339 
billion less cumulative deficit than the President's budget. In fact, 
we saved some $18.3 billion less in interest than the Democratic budget 
and $27.7 billion in interest than the President's budget. We take this 
deficit and turn it around. We save the country this enormous burden 
that they have with respect to the deficit and the interest.

In addition, as you can see, interest payments on the debt weren't 
the priority under this President's budget and under this 
administration. They have gotten completely out of control. That is why 
we are feeling the pinch, and the Congressional Black Caucus budget 
responds to that immediately.

Now, let me talk specifically about what we do, why we represent the 
American dream, why we focus on real compassion, and we do it in a 
fiscally secure and responsible manner.

We look at this map, we will see the numbers of children that are 
uninsured in America. Some of the States that we would think are 
prosperous States, such as Florida and Texas, the President's own 
State, my State, has over 12% and going as high as 40 percent of the 
children are uninsured; California, 12 percent or more are uninsured. 
Vote for the Compassionate Budget and for the CBC budget and vote for 
the Democratic Budget that strongly represents the needs of Americans.



Numbers of us in these different colors here, 8 to 12 percent are 
uninsured.

The Congressional Black Caucus budget is compassionate. Why? Because 
we provide resources for housing. We provide resources for 
transportation. We don't leave any firefighter or law enforcement 
officers behind. And we ensure homeland security.

But we are the compassionate budget. We are the American Dream. We 
ensure that children, who are our precious resources, have the ability 
to get complete children's health insurance.

I ask my colleagues to support a budget that ensures compassion and 
the American Dream and believes in eliminating the deficit. Vote for 
the Congressional Black Caucus Budget.

Madam Chairwoman, I rise to support H. Con. Res. 99, the 
Congressional Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2008. But more than 
that, I rise to welcome a new day. For the past six years, the federal 
budgets put forward by the Bush Administration and the Republican 
Congress have cut funds for critical American priorities and, 
incredibly, turned a $5.4 trillion surplus into a $8.8 trillion deficit 
over the same period. Starting today, the new Democratic majority in 
the House leads America in a new fiscal direction. And we do it without 
raising taxes. In fact, Madam Chairwoman, thanks to the treatment and 
applicability of the alternative minimum tax (AMT) called for in the 
budget resolution, 19 million Americans will pay less in taxes that 
they otherwise would. This week we will pass a fiscally responsible 
budget with the right priorities for the American people, present and 
future.

For that, I wish to thank the Chairman of the Budget Committee, Mr. 
Spratt, a man of uncommon grace and mastery of budgetary arcane. I wish 
to thank our great Speaker, Ms. Pelosi, for never letting us forget 
that we are here for one reason only, and that is to address the real 
needs and priorities of real Americans confronting the real problems of 
their real lives in the real world. Finally, let me thank the 
remarkable leadership team which has worked long, hard, and tireless to 
keep us informed, cooperative, and united in our resolve to do the 
necessary work to America better.

Madam Chairwoman, H. Con. Res. 99, better reflects the priorities and 
values of the American people. After all, a budget is much more than a 
balance sheet, an income statement, a financial scorecard. Rather, it 
the expression in fiscal terms of who we are and what we believe. In 
short, a budget is a financial reflection of our national character. 
And as it is by a person's character that you know her, so too it is 
with a nation. Look at a nation's budget and you will see how it treats 
its children in the dawn of life; its elderly in the twilight of life; 
its poor and disabled and helpless in the shadows of life; and the 
earth, the sustainer of life. Look closely at the choices it makes 
regarding the neediest and most vulnerable of its people, and you will 
know the true character of a nation.

Madam Chairwoman, America and the world can be proud of the choices 
we make in this budget resolution. Unlike the budgets of the last six 
years, the budget brought to the floor by the new House majority 
reflects the best angels of our nature. As I discuss in more detail, H. 
Con. Res. 99 expands health care for our children. It provides our 
soldiers and veterans with the care worthy of their sacrifice; it is 
faithful to President Lincoln's injunction ''to care for him who has 
borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan.'' This budget 
resolution supports education for a 21st century workforce and a 
growing economy. It invests in renewable energy for an energy 
independent America that faces up to the challenge of global warming.

Equally important, Madam Chairwoman, the majority's budget resolution 
represents a return to fiscal responsibility and budgetary 
accountability. I am proud to support a budget that reflects the care 
and fidelity of a wise steward of the taxpayers' hard-earned money. The 
American people can be assured that the new majority in Congress will 
not be profligate with the public treasury.

The new Democratic-led Congress has instituted ''pay as you go'' or 
''PAYGO'' budgeting, requiring that new spending be offset, which in 
the 1990s helped turn deficits to surpluses. We have also reformed the 
earmark process, cutting in half the number of budget ''earmarks'' for 
specific Member projects, requiring transparency in the process, and 
exposing such earmarks as the infamous ''Bridge to Nowhere.''

Madam Chairwoman, nothing engenders more public cynicism than the 
shameful conduct of some to avoid paying taxes legitimately owed. The 
overwhelming majority of Americans obey the law, play by the rules, pay 
their taxes, and work to improve their communities. There is, however, 
a small but significant percentage of Americans and corporations that 
do not. That is going to end. In this budget, we invest in an increased 
effort to make sure that taxpayers pay the taxes they owe. The Internal 
Revenue Service has estimated that the tax gap--the amount of taxes 
owed under current law but not collected--has ballooned to $345 billion 
since 2001. This has left middle-class families picking up the tab for 
those who refuse to obey the law. It is shocking to think, Madam 
Chairwoman, that amount of taxes owed by these scofflaws approximates 
the costs Americans have paid to date to finance the Iraq War.


The new Democratic-led Congress also will save millions by investing 
in efforts to identify and eliminate wasteful spending and improve 
government efficiency in Social Security, Medicare, and unemployment 
insurance. Every dollar invested in conducting Social Security ongoing 
disability reviews results in $10 of savings. The savings could total 
$3 billion.

Madam Chairwowan, this budget resolution correctly assumes that 
substantial savings can be realized from more vigorous efforts by the 
Defense Department (with increased Congressional oversight) to root out 
fraud, abuse, and wasteful spending. It is totally unacceptable that 
unlike the typical taxpayer, small business, or large corporation, the 
Defense Department still cannot pass a standard audit. The Pentagon 
cannot adequately track what it owns or spends. We just know that it's 
a lot. Defense auditors estimate that more than one of six dollars they 
have audited for Iraq is suspect, including $2.7 billion in sole-
source, single-bidder contracts.

The American people can have confidence that lax financial controls 
and fiscal mismanagement are a thing of the past now that Democrats are 
the majority party in Congress. Under this budget resolution, House 
Committees will conduct performance reviews to make sure that 
government programs are working as intended. We will work to eliminate 
unnecessary and wasteful spending. We know that oversight and financial 
controls work. Similar efforts produced 385 recommendations for smarter 
ways to improve government services, saving billions during the Clinton 
Administration.

Madam Chairwoman, the new House majority pledged that we would work 
together to restore our economic health, reclaim our leadership 
position in the world, advance our national security, and invest in the 
future. We promised to restore fiscal responsibility and began by 
instituting tough pay-as-you-go rules. And we have been delivering.

For example, in the first 100 hours of the 110th Congress, we passed 
with bipartisan support procedures imposing discipline and transparency 
in congressional spending. With


bipartisan support, we also passed legislation to implement 
recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, increased the minimum wage, 
paved the way for lower prescription drug costs, cut student loan 
costs, and redirected oil subsidies towards investments in renewable 
energy. We did all of this while maintaining our commitment to fiscal 
discipline.

The 2008 budget resolution advances these priorities. The budget 
balances in 2012 while accommodating additional tax relief for millions 
of middle-income families. It allocates funding for national priorities 
like children's health care and education. It begins to reverse six 
years of disinvestment in education, infrastructure, and innovation. 
The budget resolution is the crucial next step to realizing the 
initiatives we have developed to move the country forward and to set us 
on a course to build the future we want for our children and 
grandchildren.

And, as I have stated, it does all this without raising taxes.

Madam Chairwoman, discretionary spending, or the amount available to 
be allocated through the annual appropriations process, accounts for 
about one-third of all federal spending. The budget resolution provides 
the Appropriations Committee with $954.9 billion in discretionary 
budget authority in FY 2008, $22.1 billion more than the 
administration's request as re-estimated by the Congressional Budget 
Office (CBO). The Appropriations Committee will subdivide this amount 
(known as a 302(a) allocation) among the various appropriations bills.

In addition to the $954.9 billion in regular FY 2008 appropriations, 
the resolution assumes $145.2 billion in emergency appropriations for 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan for FY 2008, as requested by the 
administration. When this emergency funding is added to the $954.9 
billion in regular appropriations, a total of $1.1 trillion in 
discretionary spending could be available in FY 2008 under the 
resolution. I think it important that the American people know where 
and how their money will be spent.














 Defense Appropriations


The resolution calls for defense discretionary budget authority or 
appropriations at the levels recommended by the Administration for 
fiscal years 2008 through 2012. Thus, the resolution calls for defense 
appropriations of $503.8 billion in FY 2008, $531.6 billion in FY 2009, 
$542.0 billion in FY 2010, $548.0 billion in FY 2011, and $566.9 
billion in FY 2012. The totals include funding for the Defense 
Department as well as nuclear-weapons-related activity in the Energy 
Department.


The resolution also assumes $145.2 billion in emergency funds in FY 
2008--that would not count against the cap on discretionary spending--
for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, as recommended by the 
administration. When added to the $503.8 billion in regular defense 
appropriations, total defense spending under the resolution would be 
$649 billion in FY 2008. Like the Administration, the resolution 
assumes $50 billion for these wars in FY 2009.

While the resolution assumes the same total amount of spending for 
defense as the Administration recommends, it does not propose to spend 
the funds the same way. Specifically, the resolution assumes that 
nuclear non-proliferation programs will be given a greater priority and 
higher funding than the administration proposes.

Madam Chairwoman, in our resolution health care for active duty 
forces is a very high priority, as will be caring for those who return 
wounded from combat. Specifically, the resolution rejects the 
administration's proposals for increased fees for Tricare, the military 
health program, and calls for a substantial increase in the veterans' 
health care system.

The resolution assumes continued funding of missile defense and 
satellite procurement programs, but at a lower level than proposed by 
the administration. The budget resolution recognizes the need for the 
Defense Department to root out wasteful spending with far more 
diligence, noting that the Defense Department has awarded contracts for 
its foreign deployments that have been grossly more wasteful than 
domestic contracts, especially in Iraq.











 Non-Defense Discretionary Spending


The resolution calls for a non-defense discretionary budget authority 
of $451.1 billion in FY 2008, which is $22 billion (5 percent) more 
than the Administration's request. This includes an additional $2 
billion in advance FY 2009 appropriations that would be available for 
appropriation in FY 2008, resulting in a total non-defense 
discretionary total of $453.1 billion, $24 billion more than the 
administration's request. This non-defense discretionary total includes 
funding for international affairs programs as well as for domestic.

The resolution's FY 2008 level for non-defense discretionary spending 
is about $10 billion more than the FY 2007 level, adjusted for 
inflation. For fiscal years 2009 through 2012, the level of non-defense 
discretionary spending generally increases at the rate of inflation.







 Education, Training, Employment & Social Services


Funding for education, training, employment and social services 
programs has lagged during the past six years, so the resolution 
attempts to compensate by increasing such funding by 11 percent ($82.3 
billion in FY 2008) over the president's budget.

Madam Chairwoman, we reject the president's proposed cuts to 
education programs, including rejection of his proposals to eliminate 
many education programs. We also reject the president's proposed steep 
cuts in job training and social service programs, including the 
Community Services Block Grant and the Social Services Block Grant.

The increased spending can and should be used for several purposes, 
including Head Start, Title I Compensatory Education program, and job 
training and national service programs. It could also be used to 
increase the federal share of the cost for educating handicapped 
children, and to help improve access to colleges, and broadening access 
to Hispanic Serving and Historically Black Colleges and Universities.


















 Health


The resolution proposes $54.2 billion in budget authority in FY 2008 
for discretionary health programs, and higher levels of spending for 
these programs in each of the four succeeding years. By FY 2012, 
funding for these programs under the measure would increase to $58.9 
billion. The FY 2008 discretionary level for this function is $2 
billion (4 percent) more than recommended by the president.

Discretionary health spending does not include the federal 
government's main health care spending programs, such as Medicaid and 
Medicare, both of which are mandatory spending programs.












Veterans' Benefits and Services


The resolution calls for the budget authority of $43.1 billion in FY 
2008 for discretionary veterans' programs, which consist mainly of 
veterans' health programs--$3.5 billion (9 percent) more than the 
president's request. The resolution calls for increased funding 
for these veterans' programs in each of the succeeding four years. By 
FY 2012, funding for these veterans' programs would reach $48.3 
billion.


The resolution rejects the president's proposals to increase 
enrollment fees in veterans health care programs and rejects his 
proposals to increase co-payments. The resolution assumes funding to 
implement the recommendations of the bipartisan ''Walter Reed 
Commission'' as well as the recommendations of other investigations 
into military and veterans' health care facilities and services.

The increases above the president's proposed level would address 
veterans' mental health, post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic 
brain injury, and spinal cord injury. Additional funding could also be 
used to reduce the backlog of disability claims.















Low-Income Programs


Madam Chairwoman, other reason I support this resolution is that it 
provides $52 billion, nearly $3 billion (6 percent) more than the 
president recommends, for low-income programs, including unemployment 
compensation, low-income housing assistance (including Section 8 
housing), food and nutrition assistance (including food stamps and 
school lunch subsidies), and other income-security programs.
















 Transportation


The resolution provides $25.4 billion, an increase of $2.1 billion 
over the president's budget, for transportation funding, which includes 
non-homeland-security funds for the Federal Highway Administration; the 
Federal Transit Administration; Amtrak; highway, motor-carrier and 
rail-safety programs; the Federal Aviation Administration; the 
aeronautical activities of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration (NASA); the Coast Guard; and the Maritime 
Administration.

The resolution provides full funding of the highway, safety, and 
transit programs authorized by the 2005 surface transportation law 
Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A 
legacy for Users. We also maintain Amtrak, provide for additional 
funding for grants to airports and reject the president's proposed cuts 
to aviation programs in NASA.











 Community and Regional Development


The community and regional development function includes programs 
that provide federal funding for economic and community development in 
both urban and rural areas, including Community Development Block 
Grants (CDBG) and the non-power-related activities of the Tennessee 
Valley Authority (TVA).

The measure proposes to spend $13.7 billion in budget authority in FY 
2008 on community and regional development programs, with increases of 
$200 million in each succeeding year, reaching $14.5 billion in FY 
2012.

The FY 2008 funding level for discretionary programs in this function 
is $2.7 billion (24 percent) more than the president's request. The 
measure rejects the president's proposed cuts to the CDBG program. It 
assumes additional funding for this program as well as for rural 
development and disaster preparedness programs.











 Natural Resources and Environment


The resolution calls for $31.4 billion in discretionary budget 
authority in FY 2008 for natural resources and environmental programs,


$2.6 billion (9 percent) more than the president's request. The 
resolution rejects the president's proposed cuts to the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund, Fish and Wildlife Service's wildlife refuge system, 
the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) grants to state sand tribe 
for water and aid quality and other EPA programs. The resolution 
accommodates the president's proposed increases in funding to National 
Park operations and maintenance.


















 Energy


The budget resolution provides for funding civilian energy and 
environmental programs of the Energy Department, the Rural Utilities 
Service of the Agriculture Department, the TVA, the U.S. Enrichment 
Corporation, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and the Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission. It does not include the Energy Department's 
national security (nuclear weapons) activities of the National Nuclear 
Security Administration or its basic research and science activities.

The resolution provides $4.6 billion in funding for discretionary 
energy programs in FY 2008, about $300 million (7 percent) more than 
the president's request. The resolution generally calls for spending 
between $4.6 billion and $4.8 billion in each year covered by the 
resolution.














 International Affairs


The international affairs function includes international development 
and humanitarian assistance, international security assistance, the 
conduct of foreign affairs, foreign information and exchange 
activities, and international financial programs. Major agencies in 
this function include the State and Treasury departments, the U.S. 
Agency for International Development, and the Millennium Challenge 
Corporation which administers special assistance to developing 
countries that meet certain political and economic standards set by the 
U.S. government.


For international affairs, the resolution calls for $35.3 billion in 
discretionary budget authority in FY 2008, $2 billion more than the 
amount needed to maintain purchasing power at the FY 2007 level. 
Compared to the president's request, the resolution provides $1.2 
billion less than the request. The resolution assumes the president's 
request for overseas military deployments and the Emergency Plan for 
AIDS Relief, which includes the Global HIV/AIDS Initiative. The 
committee report also notes the importance of adequate funding for U.S. 
development assistance.

The resolution assumes full funding to continue the U.S. agreements 
with Israel and Egypt made in 1998 on military financing and economic 
support. The measure also assumes additional funding for the McGovern-
Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program.












 Science, Space and Technology


The function contains general science funding, including the budgets 
for the National Science Foundation and the fundamental science 
programs of the Energy Department, and programs at NASA, except for 
aviation programs.

The resolution calls for $27.5 billion in budget authority in FY 2008 
for discretionary science, space and technology programs, about $200 
million more than the president's request. The resolution projects 
gradually increasing levels of discretionary funding for these 
programs, reaching $32.3 billion in FY 2012.

For all 5 years covered by the resolution, the space funding is 
higher than the president's recommendations and the levels required to 
maintain purchasing power at the previous year's level.













 Administration of Justice


For federal judicial and law enforcement activities, the measure 
calls for $44.7 billion in discretionary budget authority in FY 2008--
$1 billion (2 percent) more than the president's request. The 
resolution calls for increases in each of the succeeding 4 years, 
reaching $49.3 billion in FY 2012.

The resolution rejects the president's proposals to cut local law 
enforcement and first responders programs, including his proposed cuts 
to the Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants program. Increases 
above the president's requested level could also be used to fund 
recommendations of the Sept. 11 commission.

