---
---

# NATIONAL INFANTRY MUSEUM AND SOLDIER CENTER COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT
## `0a58f318d22da2e29c63858989439a8d`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 10 June 2008`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.

The oldest and largest branch of the U.S. Army, the U.S. Army 
infantry, was established on June 14, 1775, when the Continental 
Congress ordered the formation of 10 companies of riflemen. The 
riflemen comprised the first armed force of a new Nation, a Nation 
destined to become the greatest democracy the world has ever known. 
Since that time, the infantry has gone where other forces could not go 
and accomplished missions others could not attempt.

The story of the Queen of Battle has been written by individual 
infantrymen who have done their duty with pride, courage and honor. 
Their suffering and sacrifices won our freedom, preserved that freedom 
for over two centuries and will guarantee it in the future. Some were 
called heroes, some were not, but they were all members of a band of 
brothers who fought for their country in the cause of freedom.

For more than two centuries the United States infantry has fought 
alongside other armed forces to protect their freedom. Their missions 
have sent them around the world and literally brought them face-to-face 
with the enemy.

From the Siege of Boston of 1775 to San Juan Hill, to the Battle of 
New Orleans, to the Argonne Forest, where Sergeant York distinguished 
himself, to the beaches of Normandy, they hunted the enemy in the Shau 
Valley, parachuted into Panama, and currently subdue our enemies on 
cold mountainside and hot desert sands in both Iraq and Afghanistan. 
When policymakers finished talking, when debate has ceased, when 
negotiations have failed and orders are given, it becomes the mission 
of the United States infantry to execute our national policy.

Their courage, pride and sense of beauty to country and each other 
stood tall above any fear they faced. But the battle for our freedom 
has been costly. As many as 80 percent of all the servicemen and women 
who have died serving their country were part of the infantry.

To honor the infantry's decorated history, the National Infantry 
Foundation, in coordination with the United States Army, have broken 
ground on a new world-class museum honoring them. Located on a 200-acre 
site of Fort Benning, Georgia, the National Infantry Museum will serve 
as a tribute to the infantry's legacy of valor and sacrifice. This 
museum will honor these soldiers for their selfless service to our 
country, while also preserving for all time the artifacts so poignantly 
telling their stories.

It will tell the story of our ground soldiers, from the colonial 
period to Operation Iraqi Freedom. Lessons of the past will be retold 
to help lead us in the future.

Our children must learn and know that there are values and beliefs 
worth living for and worth dying for, that the freedom and liberty we 
enjoy today has come at a high price, and that the American values of 
patriotism, duty, courage and leadership are the hallmarks of the 
infantry and must be preserved.

With 290 cosponsors, this bipartisan legislation honors the legacy of 
the United States infantry with the minting of the infantry coin. Money 
raised from the sale of the coins will go towards maintaining the 
National Infantry Museum.

I applaud the efforts of the National Infantry Foundation, its rich 
history deserves to be kept alive for all who follow. These heroes are 
perhaps too humble to tell their own story, so we will have to do it 
for them.

I thank the gentleman from Georgia for authoring this legislation, 
and I urge my colleagues to support it.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.