# HIGHER EDUCATION AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `0a5a09a2b42eb947de09d4c14ba1f68d`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 23 July 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I congratulate Senator Kennedy and 
Senator Enzi and the members of the Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions Committee for their work on this bill. I have been around 
awhile, but I have not been in the Senate for very long, and we have 
been working on this bill since I came to the Senate, which was 4 years 
ago. It needed to be reauthorized some time ago. But similar to some 
other things, it has gotten a little better with age, and it is a very 
good bill.

Although we have been working on this bill for some time, I believe 
it has gotten better over time. It has a number of excellent provisions 
in it. There is one major concern I have which I intend to speak on. 
Let me say what that is at the outset before I begin to talk about what 
I like about the bill. My late friend, Alex Haley, used to say, ''Find 
the good and praise it,'' and I can do that with this bill, but I do 
have one concern. My concern is the creeping regulation of higher 
education.

I believe the single most important thing we could do to help improve 
excellence in higher education in America, which is already pretty 
good--the best in the world--is to deregulate, not add more federal 
regulations. Unfortunately, with this bill, we significantly add to the 
stack of regulations that college and university presidents all over 
America have to wade through every year in order to accept students who 
receive Federal grants and loans.

Let me talk about some of the good things about this bill. In the 
first place, it was an excellent decision to separate this piece of 
legislation from the work we acted on last week--what we call the 
reconciliation bill. This reauthorizes the Higher Education Act for the 
next 5 years, and it has separate provisions which deserve separate 
attention. For example, it increases the amount of Pell grants from 
$4,300 to $6,300 over the next 5 years. Pell grants are for the lowest 
income students. They don't help the middle-income families very much 
because the dollars don't get up to that level. Those families are 
eligible for other aid from universities and other grants and loans. 
But $6,300 for a Pell grant is a significant amount of money.

For example, if you go to Harvard, it doesn't come close to paying 
the cost, but if you go to the University of Tennessee, it pays almost 
the entire tuition for the year. In fact, if you go to the University 
of Tennessee with a Pell grant, you are very likely to show up with 
what we call a HOPE scholarship, which also pays for tuition. So you 
would start off with a HOPE scholarship of--I think the amount is about 
$4,000--plus your $6,300 from the Pell grant, if you needed that 
additional amount of money. So the Pell grant would be increasing from 
its current level of $4,310 to $6,300. If there are families across the 
country who are watching our debate and thinking they can't go to 
college, it is important for them to know that the community colleges 
of America cost several hundred dollars a quarter, and that the great 
State universities of America typically cost $5,000 or $6,000 or $7,000 
a year in tuition. Now, that does not include living expenses, but we 
all pay living expenses, whether we are in college or we are not in 
college.

This decision to move up the Pell grant to $6,300 is a big help. I 
hope it sends a signal across this country to families without means 
that their son or their daughter may start their higher education, for 
example, at a community college for 2 years, living at home and paying 
a few hundred dollars and letting the Pell grant pay for the total cost 
of the tuition, the total cost of the books. So there will be zero 
charge for that family for 2 years, and then after 2 more years, go on 
to a State University, where the tuition might not be very much more 
than the Pell grant. In addition, the Pell grants will be even larger 
for students who are majoring in math, science, critical foreign 
languages, and thereby encouraging students to pursue those fields.

This Congress is taking a number of steps to try to refocus our 
country's attention on our brain power advantage, to make sure we keep 
that so we can keep our good jobs from going overseas. Senator Kennedy 
and Senator Enzi and Senator Frist last year changed the law and 
created the SMART grants to focus on our competitiveness, and the 
increase to the Pell grants do that significantly more in this 
legislation.

In addition, this legislation, in an overdue way, recognizes the 
importance of a year-round Pell grant. Many people still have in their 
mind the idea of the traditional college student on the traditional 
campus. That life has changed. Many of the students who take Pell 
grants have to work. They are older. They may be moms going back to 
school to get the training to get a better job or a dad doing the same, 
and they may not have time to take the summer off, or that might not 
fit their schedule. The way the law has been, they couldn't get the 
Pell grant, if there were, say, three quarters, they could only get it 
for two. This says that--and Senator Clinton, I congratulate her for 
working on this as well. A number of Senators have worked on


making the Pell grant a year-round opportunity.

I am also delighted about legislation I introduced, again with 
Senator Clinton, to expand Teach For America. Teach For America 
attracts some of the brightest young men and women in our country who 
have a passion for serving. There are many ways to serve our country. 
Some of our most valued are in Iraq and Afghanistan. Others are in the 
inner city helping children who haven't had a chance to learn to read, 
to learn to compute, and learn to have a chance in this country. As 
Lyndon Johnson used to say, we want people to be equal at the starting 
line, but we need to help some people get to that starting line, and 
through Teach For America, young men and women can do just that. This 
will build a corps of young college graduates who will spend 2 years in 
those schools, and it will expand the group of influential alumni of 
Teach For America who care about our public schools.

I actually think that what may end up being more important about 
Teach For America than their service for 2 years in the inner city 
schools is that we will expand these young men and women who will grow 
to be the leaders of this country in a relatively short period of time. 
Then they will always have within their personal missions the idea of 
giving every student an opportunity to go to a first-class public 
school. Having a corps of Americans who value education and who value 
public schools, especially, will do our country more good than almost 
anything I can think of.

Mr. President, I believe we have the best colleges and universities 
in the world. We don't just have some of them, we have almost all of 
them. They have their problems, but we should recognize the asset that 
they are. One of my primary goals as a Senator is to relieve the 
burdensome, oppressive paperwork that the Federal Government places 
upon our colleges and universities, freeing up scarce dollars to spend 
on improving quality teaching and research rather than paperwork.

The higher education system--and I want to be careful saying this 
because I don't want to drive anyone away from this idea--is a 
Republican's dream, a conservative's dream. We have 6,000 autonomous 
institutions. Some are public, some are private. Some are religious, 
some are secular. Some are historically Black, some are Native 
American, some are Jewish. Some are in cities. There is Harvard and 
there is the Nashville Auto Diesel College. There are 6,000 autonomous 
institutions that compete. We don't give money directly to those 
institutions, for the most part. We give the money to the students, and 
students take those vouchers--one-half of America's college students 
attend our autonomous institutions with a Federal grant or loan that 
helps them to pay for college, and they are flat out vouchers.

I have introduced several times a Pell grant for kids, saying that is 
what a voucher is for K-12, but we will reserve that discussion for 
another day.

Since World War II, quite by accident, we have said to the world: 
Here is the way we organize our education. It is a marketplace of 6,000 
institutions, where (1) colleges compete for students, (2) Government 
money follows those students to the institution of their choice, and 
(3) the Federal research money is, for the most part, competed for in 
peer-reviewed efforts. The rest of the world is scrambling to catch up 
with our system.

In China, they are deregulating. In France, they are deregulating and 
creating a more competitive system and trying to emulate the model that 
we have.

So what concerns me about our Government's attitude toward higher 
education is the number of forms each institution has to fill out. I 
have a stack of forms this tall in my office. I didn't bring it here to 
the Senate floor. Every institution has to fill that out in order to 
accept students who bring with them Federal grants or loans, which are 
almost all of the students. That means the small church-related schools 
have to hire somebody else. They have to go through all that. The 
President of Stanford--not a small, church-related school--said 7 out 
of 10 cents of every tax dollar is spent on complying with Government 
regulations.

Would it not be better if we allowed Stanford and the small schools 
and the Nashville Auto Diesel College, as well as Harvard, to use more 
of their money to help students and less to comply with paperwork?

With passage of this bill, we will require the Advisory Committee on 
Student Financial Aid to review regulations imposed under the act and 
report to the Secretary and Congress ways to reduce regulation, 
streamline procedures, and simplify for the benefit of students. That 
will be one small force moving in the right direction.

It would create a discretionary grant program for an institution of 
higher education to maintain a Web site that keeps track of Federal 
regulations that have an impact on institutions of higher education. A 
small, church-related college might only have to hire a person who 
spends half of his or her time keeping up with the rules and 
regulations because the Web site might have done it for them.

We require the Secretary to develop an annual compliance calendar for 
disclosures required by the Higher Education Act.

These provisions might seem not very important, but I can guarantee 
you, as a former president of a university, they can make a lot of 
difference. I would like very much to have spread out before me a 
calendar from the Government that said we have listed all of the rules 
and regulations and forms and papers that you have to file. That would 
mean I knew what it was and that would save me a lot of time in 
figuring it out.

Despite that good news, I am afraid there are, nevertheless, problems 
in this bill. Currently there are 24 reporting categories and 74 
reporting requirements with hundreds of data points. That is today, 
before this bill passes. My staff has identified 26 new categories and 
over 100 new reporting requirements imposed on higher education with 
this law, and that is even before the department starts its 
regulations.

So I hope we can figure out a way to create competitive forces in 
favor of deregulation. It is as bad on our side of the aisle as it is 
on that side of the aisle. Very often, my Republican friends say, for 
example, prices at colleges have gone up, so let's put on price 
controls.

When the pilgrims arrived in Massachusetts, they said we know what 
religious oppression is, so let's practice it ourselves. We are 
supposed to be for markets and choice and less Federal regulation. So 
let's apply that to Federal higher education.

I have worked on a number of provisions in the bill, and I thank 
Senators Kennedy and Enzi for permitting me to do that, working with 
others, including Senators Gregg and Reed, and I have worked on 
provisions that have been included that simplify the application form 
for students who apply for grants or loans.

As I mentioned, I worked with Senator Clinton to help allow students 
who have Pell grants to use them year-round so they can finish earlier 
and get back to work and back with their families, rather than the 
antiquated requirement that they may only use them part of the year. I 
mentioned the compliance calendar to make it simpler for colleges, and 
the Teach for America plan, which Senators Harkin and Reid and others 
have cosponsored.

There is an accountability research grant and a state data system 
pilot project. I thank Secretary Spellings for agreeing with these. As 
a result of her study of higher education, which pointed out a number 
of important things, we do have a fine system of higher education, but 
it needs to be challenged if we are going to keep our advantage. I felt 
that the Secretary, in her recommendations, was going too far in 
federalizing higher education, whether it be transfer of credit 
provisions, or whether it might be proposals mandated from Washington 
about student accountability. I thought that was a good goal but the 
wrong way to go about it.

So Secretary Spellings has agreed to step back and focus instead on 
challenging our State boards of education and our college boards of 
trustees and our university presidents and our Governors and 
legislators to do their own on accountability. We are not going to kick 
it to Washington, DC, and let us conduct oversight of how they are 
doing their jobs, rather than to try to


impose more of the one-size or a few-sizes-fit-all ideas from 
Washington. A part of doing that would be these new grants from the 
Department.

In this bill, we have provided grants from the Secretary to create 
new measures for assessing student achievement in higher education. 
There is a difference in the Harvard classics department and the 
Nashville Auto Diesel College. I mention that because Harvard classics 
might be the best department for classics. I know the Nashville Auto 
Diesel College is the best training for mechanics. There is no need for 
us to figure out what is the appropriate accountability at those 
institutions.

With great respect to the chair and Senators Kennedy and Enzi and the 
Department of Education, the institutions of higher education know more 
about accountability in higher education. We ought to make sure they 
are doing their job, not try and do it for them from here.