---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `0a653d7be500c4a53d1dcf66016a6ffc`
`Mr. LaHOOD — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 1591.

The bill is a bonanza for numerous factions of the majority party and 
many special interest groups. You want an increase in the minimum wage? 
If you pass this bill, it is done. You want agricultural disaster 
relief that occurred more than 2 years ago? You pass this bill, it gets 
done. You want billions of dollars for homeland security initiatives 
without going through the regular process? Pass this bill, and it is 
done.

Let me be clear, I supported an increase in the minimum wage, and I


supported it in the appropriations committee last year. I have voted to 
support relief for our farmers, and I do believe we have to increase 
our ability to secure airports and our ports, but not through this 
bill.

I do want to say a word of support and thanks to Chairman Murtha and 
Chairman Obey for highlighting Walter Reed and sending a message that 
we are not going to close the hospital. We are going to keep it open. 
We are going to fix it up. We are going to provide the money. That was 
an important provision in this bill.

I have constituents who are leaving Illinois shortly and will soon be 
back in harm's way. I have never voted against legislation that 
provided funding for them to safely execute their missions. I trust 
they recognize what is happening here tonight. They know that we will 
always work to give them the resources they need, but we will not 
undercut their efforts by telling our enemies that the United States 
does not have the fortitude nor the political will to continue our 
support for the Iraqi people and their government.

What is the benefit to giving our enemies a troop withdrawal date 
that they can circle on their calendar? Why would we give them the aid 
and comfort of knowing that if they continue their attacks for just 11 
more months, the U.S. military will leave Iraq, and it will be under 
their control?

We must pass a clean supplemental that is focused on meeting military 
needs. We must quit. We must quit being 435 Commanders in Chief and 
allowing our military leaders on the ground in Iraq to continue to use 
their skills and expertise to prosecute the war free of political 
interference. We must acknowledge that the needs of our men and women 
in uniform are more important than deals made here, campaign sound 
bites and political grandstanding. We must remember those who 
sacrificed so much for this war effort and allow their fellow soldiers 
to continue the mission.

We have a job to do here. I urge my colleagues to vote against this 
bloated, misguided bill and return our focus to where it should have 
been all along, the needs of our troops.

Even with $25 billion in extraneous, non-emergency spending added to 
sweeten the pot, a big problem remains. You can dress it up all you 
want, but Members, regardless of party affiliation, know a bad bill 
when they see it. Leadership may be able to lard up this bill to gain 
votes, but apparently it hasn't been enough because they still don't 
have the votes.

I am very disappointed, but not surprised, that really surprised, 
that we are operating here today under a closed rule. I know Members of 
both parties would like to be able to offer amendments to try to 
salvage this legislation, but too many arms have been twisted and too 
many promises have been made to allow any changes now. One amendment 
passes, and the whole bill unravels. Apparently, one vote, up or down, 
is all you get when you consider a $125 billion package.

Let me be clear. I support an increase in the minimum wage. I support 
providing relief to farmers when disaster strikes. I support increased 
funding to improve the airport security process. However, none of these 
things is worth my supporting a bill that I truly believe will put the 
lives of our troops in danger.

During the Appropriations Committee markup of this bill last week, 
Chairman Murtha included in his Manager's amendment the text of my 
amendment that prohibits the use of funds to close the Walter Reed Army 
Medical Center. I am grateful for his assistance about this issue that 
I consider to be vital to the care of our returning wounded military 
personnel. But even the inclusion of my own amendment in this bill is 
not enough to make me hold our troops in combat hostage to political 
grandstanding.

It is unconscionable to me that this House assumes that we can manage 
the war better than our military leaders. We cannot stand here in the 
protected environment of the House Chamber and tie the hands of our 
President and our combatant commanders on the ground in Iraq. We cannot 
promise our troops the operational money they need to safely do their 
jobs while announcing their withdrawal date to our enemies. Congress 
cannot and must not micromanage the war effort.

I have constituents who are leaving Illinois shortly and will soon be 
back in harm's way. I have never voted against any legislation that 
provided funding for them to safely execute their missions. I trust 
that they recognize what is happening here today. They know that I will 
always work to give them the resources they need, but I will not 
undercut their efforts by telling our enemies that the United States 
does not have the fortitude or political will to continue our support 
for the Iraqi people and their new government.

What is the benefit to giving our enemies a troop withdrawal date 
that they can circle on a calendar? Why would we give them the aid and 
comfort of knowing that if they continue their attacks for just 11 more 
months, the U.S. military will leave and Iraq will be theirs to 
control?

If enough votes are gained and enough arms are twisted and this 
legislation reaches the President's desk, he will veto it, with my 
strong support. Our troops will suffer while the majority continues to 
try to unite their deeply divided caucus. Our troops will continue 
their missions as best they can, but how long do you plan on making 
them wait for the funding they need?

We must pass a clean supplemental that focuses on meeting military 
needs. We must quit trying to be 435 Commanders-in-Chief and allow our 
military leaders on the ground in Iraq to continue to use their skill 
and expertise to prosecute the war, free of political interference. We 
must acknowledge that the needs of our men and women in uniform are 
more important than backroom deals, campaign sound bites, and political 
grandstanding. We must remember those who sacrificed so much for this 
war effort and allow their fellow soldiers to continue their mission.

We have a job to do here. I urge my colleagues to vote against this 
bloated, misguided bill and return our focus to where it should have 
been all along: the needs of our troops.