# THE ECONOMY
## `0a6d1b2a32b715278bd9b900c36895c5`
`Mr. CARDIN — 17 September 2008`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, the problems we have been talking about on 
Main Street America have reached Wall Street. I have taken the 
opportunity to speak on the floor on several occasions about the fact 
that the problems homeowners were facing in losing their homes in 
foreclosure were not just the problems of those particular homeowners, 
that it affects each and every one of us, that it was a housing crisis 
in America that would affect our entire economy. I talked about the 
fact that we have an obligation to try to do something to help.

Foreclosure rates are now at historically high levels. In August of 
this year, there were over 300,000 foreclosures in America. In my own 
State of Maryland, we have had over 3,000 foreclosures each and every 
month. Maryland is normally a quiet State. Homeowners are wondering 
whether they are going to be able to hold on to their homes. Homeowners 
have suffered from a significant reduction in property values. All 
homeowners have suffered through this. When there is a foreclosure in a 
neighborhood, it affects every house in that community.

The real estate industry is suffering through declining home sales. 
We know the numbers are dramatically lower. We know what that means as 
far as the economy is concerned. Housing starts are at their 17-year 
low.

We know the impact these economic conditions are having on middle-
income families. Their wages have been stagnant--in fact, in real 
terms, have fallen--and yet their needs have increased; the high cost 
of energy, the high cost of health care, the cost of trying to afford a 
college education for their children, even affording their food budget. 
So we know middle-income families are hurting. We know Main Street is 
hurting.

But now we see that these problems have gone to Wall Street. We 
learned a few months ago about Bear Stearns and that the Government had 
to come to the rescue of Bear Stearns in order to make sure the jitters 
on Wall Street would be contained. That was followed by the Government 
coming in and standing behind Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, putting tens 
of billions of dollars of U.S. Government potential expenditures at 
risk. This past week, we saw that Lehman Brothers, an entity that had 
survived the stock market crash of 1929, went bankrupt. Merrill Lynch 
was sold at a bargain-basement price. AIG now has Government 
involvement. This past Monday, the stock market fell by over 500 
points--the Dow Jones average--which is the largest single drop since 
the terrorist attacks of September 2001. The taxpayers are being asked 
to stand behind these financial institutions. Individuals who depended 
upon their investments for retirement or for savings have seen a large 
part of that evaporate.

The administration says the economy is basically sound. John McCain 
says the fundamentals of our economy are strong. Well, it is the 
economic policies of this administration that have made it much more 
vulnerable. It was the former Secretary of HUD, Alphonso Jackson, who 
said, ''Let's take a hands-off approach.'' The lack of Federal 
regulation and the lack of this administration's oversight of the 
financial institutions in our country have certainly led to where we 
are today.

Our economy is much more vulnerable because of the economic policies 
of this administration. Let me give you a few examples.



We have seen that during the past 8 years this administration has 
taken an economy with large budget surpluses to an economy with large 
budget deficits. This administration took a national debt that was a 
little over $5 trillion and we are now approaching $10 trillion. They 
took a surplus of a couple of hundred billion dollars a year and turned 
it into a deficit of over $400 billion a year. They have grown the 
trade deficit to over $700 billion a year, costing us jobs here in 
America. They have had a policy that yielded to the oil companies this 
oil dependency where we are not energy independent, so gasoline prices 
approach $4 a gallon. The health care system has seen 6 million more 
Americans lose their health insurance and become uninsured as a result 
of the administration's policies. And the unemployment rate that was a 
little over 4 percent has grown to over 6 percent.

Now, Congress has taken some steps in order to try to deal with this. 
Quite frankly, we could have taken those steps a little faster if it 
were not for the Republican filibusters. But we need to do a lot more. 
We have taken steps to try to help families save their homes. Yes, I 
think we should be doing more. I was listening to the assistant 
majority leader talking about ways we could do that through changes in 
the bankruptcy laws. I think we need to do that. There are things we 
can do to help homeowners save their homes.

We can certainly do more to help families deal with the consequences 
of this economy, whether it is the high cost of energy and air-
conditioning their homes or, in the winter, heating their homes or 
whether there are other areas we can help those who are suffering 
through this economy.

I hope our colleagues will not filibuster those opportunities so we 
can help those who have lost their jobs. I think we have a 
responsibility. That is what Government should be doing. The economy is 
not producing the jobs they need. They cannot find jobs through no 
fault of their own; it is the economic problems. That is where 
Government can help.

We could certainly have the right regulatory and oversight system to 
deal with what is happening with our financial institutions.

But we need to get back to basics. We need to get back to fiscal 
responsibility. You cannot cut taxes, go to war, and not pay for the 
war or pay for the tax cuts and get these huge deficits and expect our 
economy to be strong. Fiscal responsibility starts with balancing the 
budget, by recognizing that tax cuts have to be paid for and this war 
spending has to be paid for. Quite frankly, I believe the right course 
is to get our troops out of Iraq and save those dollars.

We have to help deal with a trade policy, a trade policy that will 
give American workers a level playing field so they can compete. They 
can compete with any country in the world, with their workforce, if it 
is a level playing field. But we need an administration that is going 
to fight for environmental and labor standards so that we have that 
level playing field and that will eliminate the tax breaks we give in 
our own code for companies that take their jobs overseas. That makes no 
sense at all. We need to fight for those changes.

We need an energy policy that will make this country truly 
independent. We need to do that not just for our economy--and we know 
the cost of energy and what has happened because of countries halfway 
around the world changing their production, and it affects the price 
here in America. It affects our economy. But we have to do it for our 
own security so we do not have to go to war because we are in danger of 
losing oil. We have to do it for our environment because global climate 
change is real. We can accomplish all three of those goals by energy 
independence and help our economy.

But we are not going to achieve it through drilling. I know there are 
a lot of people here who want to drill. We have 3 percent of the 
world's reserves; we use 25 percent of the world's oil. You are not 
going to get energy independence through drilling. Yes, we support 
drilling where it can be done in a sensible way because we need the 
oil, certainly in the short term, but we need to develop alternative 
and renewable energy sources. That makes the most sense for this 
country. That is what we have to do. We have to use less energy.

We can become energy independent if we set our minds to do it. I hope 
we will take this as the last wake-up call and at least enact policies 
that will truly make us energy independent. We are going to have a 
chance to do that later this week--at least move in that direction--and 
I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting that legislative 
effort.

We have to take on the health care system. It is too costly in 
America. We spend too much money on health care. We do not have the 
results to indicate that. It is a national disgrace that we have 47 
million without health insurance in America. And each of us is paying 
for it. We are paying for it through higher taxes and through higher 
premium costs. It is time that every American has access to affordable, 
quality health care, and that means we have to deal with the 47 million 
who are uninsured. They need to have insurance.


We need to deal with preventative health care. It saves a lot of 
money to make sure people are able to get the test and lab work 
necessary to have early intervention into diseases.

It makes sense for us to take on the pharmaceutical manufacturers. 
Why are we paying three times what the consumers of the industrialized 
world are paying for the same medicines that are manufactured here? Our 
taxpayers are paying for that. And those of us who pay our bills are 
also paying more for pharmaceuticals than we should.

In short, we have to get back to basics. We have to get back to 
basics. We need to change the economic policies of this administration, 
get back to fiscal responsibility, get back to energy independence, and 
get back to health care reform.

Let's do the things that will make this Nation competitive. And if we 
do, our economy will not be as vulnerable as it is today. That is why 
what started as a mortgage problem grew into a housing crisis, grew 
into an economic problem for working families, and now it is affecting 
Wall Street. It does not make any difference whether you are an 
employee or employer, company or worker, you are being hurt badly by 
the economic policies of this administration.

It is time for us to work together, Democrats and Republicans. This 
is not a partisan issue. It should not be a partisan issue. Energy 
independence should not be a partisan issue. Health care reform should 
not be a partisan issue. Balancing the budget should not be a partisan 
issue. So let's work together, Democrats and Republicans. Let's help 
those who are looking to their Government in this time of need to be 
there to help them. Let's do the right thing for the people who need 
our help. But then let's rebuild our economy so we are never as 
vulnerable as we are today, so that we have the economic basis to be 
able to deal with the normal cycles in the economy without so many 
families losing their homes and so many families being wiped out on 
their savings. We can do this if we work together. I urge my colleagues 
to do this.
