---
---

# IRAQ
## `0a8014255cab82daeaa7dd8c4ca6ad18`
`Mr. CRAIG — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. CRAIG. Madam President, I have been on the floor of the Senate 
for the last half hour, listening to my colleague in what is, in fact, 
a very important debate for this country. I say that, even though the 
wringing of hands would suggest that somehow the debate is being 
blocked and the will of the Senate has been thwarted. I suggest quite 
the opposite. It has become a finger-pointing in a procedural way.

I believe the Republican leader came to the floor yesterday and said 
let's have a couple of votes, several votes; you can vote up or down on 
the Levin-Warner resolution; you can vote up or down on the Gregg 
resolution. It was then the leadership on the majority side, the 
Democratic side, blocked it. I think the American people are wise to 
the tactics at hand. They are not unaware, and they are frustrated by 
what is going on in Iraq today. Clearly, we are focused. Whether it is 
the Congress of the United States or a vast majority of the American 
people, we are becoming increasingly critical of a war that has 
frustrated many of us.

The Senator from Maryland voted against it. He said so a few moments 
ago. I voted for it. At the same time, I grow increasingly critical, as 
do many of the citizens of my State, as to what will be the future, 
what will be our success and/or failure and at a cost of how many more 
American lives.

I am critically concerned that this Government in Iraq now stand up. 
We have allowed them to form and to shape and to vote. They now have a 
Constitution. They now must lead. In leading, I hope it could be to 
stability to the region and that it will not offset and throw out of 
balance what the free world looks at and says is very important and 
that is, of course, the war on terror and the general stability of the 
Middle East.

Indeed, I think much has been lost in the debate around this country 
as to the significance of the Middle East itself. I was extremely 
pleased last week when that kind of an elder statesman of our country, 
Henry Kissinger, came before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and 
in a very real and important way, and in a bipartisan way, said: Let's 
not forget our perspective. While for the short term and for the moment 
we are focused on Iraq, as we should be, let's not fail to recognize 
that since World War II, we have been in the Middle East to bring 
stability to the region for a safer, more stable Western World.

I don't think there is any question about that. He was frank about it 
when he stressed diplomacy as an important tool. I have long advocated 
frank, open talks amongst our friends and neighbors around the world, 
not only about the region but about the role of Iraq within the region 
and what we must do. However, Dr. Kissinger also stressed that, under 
the present conditions in Iraq, withdrawal or the signs of withdrawal 
is simply not an option for America's forces. So anyone who comes to 
the floor today and says: Oh, but it is an option and we ought to start 
now, or we ought to send all the signals to our friends and neighbors 
around the world that we are beginning to pull back, is going against a 
trend that I think is critically important. They could set in motion 
the kind of activity in Iraq that could bring about a phenomenal 
genocide and the possibility of neighbors tumbling in on top of 
neighbors to create conflict in the Middle East that could bring down 
the whole of the region. If that were to happen, then I am quite 
confident that those who want to withdraw would find themselves in a 
very precarious situation. What do we do? Do we go back in with greater 
force to stabilize the region, when friendly, moderate Arab nations are 
now tumbling into war because we would no longer stand or we would no 
longer force, through a diplomatic process, those countries of the 
world to come together to work with us, to cooperate?

While most agree that the current situation in Iraq must be dealt 
with politically--and we have heard that time and again--and 
economically, our military involvement is critical to provide the 
Iraqis the stability they need in this new democratic process. I don't 
mind pegging timelines a little bit and I don't mind thresholds and 
measurements and I think it is important we not only send that message 
but that we get it done, we get it done for the sake of our position in 
Iraq and certainly forcing the Iraqi Government to move--those are all 
phenomenally important issues.

Let me stress two last facts. It is quite simple. The 116th from 
Idaho, the largest deployment of Idaho's troops in this war, was there 
and served and served honorably and proudly and the work they did was 
phenomenally important and we are proud of them. Let me also suggest 
that while many will say the general we now send to Iraq is the best 
military mind we have available at the moment, the author of the


Army's war handbook on terror, we are saying to General Petraeus: You 
are the best there is, go forth and be successful, but, oh, by the way, 
we don't agree with the mission--what kind of a mixed message is that 
we now send to our military?

The Senator from Georgia was right. The world is listening to this 
debate. Our men and women in uniform are listening to this debate. The 
enemies of the cause are listening and saying: Oh, the Senate of the 
United States is getting cold feet. Our opportunities are at hand. All 
we have to do is wait them out. All we have to do is accelerate the 
violence, and they will turn out the lights in the green zone and go 
home.

Then the world, at least the Iraqi world, will erupt in a civil 
conflict, a civil war of phenomenal proportion.

Those are the realities we deal with today. I hope this Senate stays 
on point. This is an issue that is critical to the future of our 
country, to the future of the free world, to the region of the Middle 
East, to any kind of stability we hope could be brought there. I hope 
we have the votes--and they ought to be up or down--and I don't mind 
being on the record at all. They need to be substantive, they need to 
have the force and effect of law, just not the ring of the politics of 
the Chamber, because that is what we are getting today--a heavy dose of 
politics and very little substance.

We hide behind procedure? I don't think so. Let us bring these issues 
forward. The Craig resolution? Up or down. Levin-Warner? Up or down. 
What is wrong with those votes? That is what we were sent here to do. I 
would hope our leadership could bring us to that.

So, to reiterate:

Many people around the country, including myself, have taken a much 
more critical look at the way the war in Iraq has been handled. 
However, through all the hardships our soldiers face day-to-day on the 
streets of Baghdad and elsewhere in Iraq, it still remains evident to 
me that our success in Iraq and the success of the current Iraq 
government, is critical to the security of our Nation, the stability of 
the Middle East, and the fight against terrorism worldwide.

Indeed, much has been lost in the debates around this country as to 
the significance of the greater Middle East stability when looking at 
the situation in Iraq. Our country has maintained a presence in that 
region of the world since World War II, and it should not be a surprise 
to anyone that many countries there depend and rely on our presence 
there, both economically and for their own national security. After 
reviewing the recent transcript of Dr. Henry Kissinger before the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I agreed with many of Dr. 
Kissinger's views on the current situation in Iraq as it relates to the 
Middle East as a whole, and the severe consequences the international 
community will face should we fail in Iraq.

Dr. Kissinger stressed diplomacy, something I have long advocated in 
this conflict and frankly for any conflict. I don't believe there is 
one Member of Congress who takes the decision lightly to send out 
troops into combat unless we all firmly believe it is a last option. I 
know I certainly didn't, and I know that an overwhelming majority of 
both Senators and Congressmen believed that as well when we authorized 
the use of force in Iraq back in 2002.

However, Dr. Kissinger also stressed that under the present 
conditions in Iraq, withdrawal is not an option for American forces. 
Such a withdrawal would have long reaching consequences on the war on 
terror worldwide, could lead to widespread genocide in Iraq and 
possible neighboring countries, as well as severe economic consequences 
for all Middle Eastern countries. It is clear that such a circumstance 
would mandate international forces be sent back into Iraq, but the 
costs at that point would be grave.

While most agree that the current situation in Iraq must be dealt 
with politically and economically, our military involvement is critical 
to providing the Iraqis the stability they need to let their new 
democracy take root. If we pull our troops out of Iraq now, or deny 
them much needed reinforcements as some would like to do, we risk 
losing Baghdad and possibly the entire country to full blown civil war. 
Under those circumstances, the government of Iraq would fall, and Iran 
and Syria would strengthen their grip on the Middle East, endangering 
the national security of America and our allies worldwide.

It is my hope that diplomatic efforts will continue in a more 
aggressive fashion to bring the international community to the 
realization of a failed State in Iraq, and the real consequences that 
we all face should our efforts fall short of stabilizing Baghdad and 
the country as a whole. Because the consequences are so high, I do not 
believe that our soldiers' withdrawal from Iraq should be placed on any 
timetable, and we need to reassure our soldiers and commanders in Iraq 
that we will continue to support their efforts. After all, they are 
operating in Iraq, but the work they are doing will have a far reaching 
effect to stabilize the Middle East.

Over the past few weeks, there have been many who have been outspoken 
about their disapproval of the President's new plan for Iraq. Not being 
an expert in military tactics, I do not believe it is my role as a U.S. 
Senator to play general for our soldiers as some are. Instead, I 
believe it is my duty in Congress to provide our soldiers with the 
resources and funding they require to do their job with the best 
equipment possible, while also pledging my unending moral support for 
the work they do each and every day to keep Americans safe both at home 
and abroad.


Every 4 years the citizens of America go to the polls to elect a 
commander in chief, who is responsible to the American people to lead 
our military in times of peace and times of war. It is no mistake that 
the founding fathers gave the power to declare war to the Congress, but 
the power to lead the military to the President. Our soldiers should 
not have to follow 535 Congressional ''generals'' who hold up critical 
funding while they second-guess tactical decisions of the commander in 
chief and military leaders.

Over the last few weeks a lot has been made of the troop 
reinforcement President Bush outlined to the American people. Prior to 
his speech, I and several other Members of Congress met with the 
President to discuss the current situation in Iraq. I made it very 
clear that Idahoans and I cannot continue to support the status quo; 
and he agreed. President Bush has spent the last many months working 
with his national security advisers, commanding officers in Iraq, 
Members of Congress and experts in the field of military issues in 
order to revise our national strategy with regards to Iraq and come up 
with a new strategy for victory.

Make no mistake, the onus is now on the Iraqi people and the Iraqi 
government to act, and I was extremely pleased to hear President Bush 
reiterate that fact. The efforts of our soldiers have given the Iraqi 
people a great opportunity to live in a free and stable country, but 
they must stand up and accept that responsibility.

My home State of Idaho has shared some of the burden of this war in 
Iraq. The 116th Brigade Combat Team served courageously for twelve 
months in Kirkuk and surrounding areas, and they have since returned 
home to their families. I had the opportunity to visit them in Iraq and 
was extremely proud of the feedback on these soldiers I received from 
Iraqi government officials, civilians, and U.S. military leaders. I 
would also like to spotlight all Idahoans who are serving in the Armed 
Forces in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere. I am eternally grateful for 
their service and I will continue to provide them with all the support 
I can give.

It is my hope that Members of Congress will not pursue antiwar 
politics to the detriment of our soldiers in the field. Our soldiers 
have been fighting courageously in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere 
around the world to protect each and every American life, and I believe 
it is incumbent for the Congress to stand behind them. Numerous bills 
and resolutions have been proposed in the Senate to disapprove of their 
mission, cap troop levels, withhold funding for the reinforcements, or 
even completely de-fund the troops serving in Iraq. I cannot and will 
not support any legislation that I see as unproductive to our current 
efforts in Iraq, because I believe it places our forces in greater 
danger and could embolden our enemies to continue their attacks against 
innocent Iraqis, Americans and our allies.

In testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee in January of 
this


year, General Hayden, the Director of the CIA, responded to a question 
regarding what would happen if we pulled out now from Iraq. Director 
Hayden responded, Three very quick areas:




 No. 1, more Iraqis die from the disorder inside Iraq. No. 


 2, Iraq becomes a safe haven, perhaps more dangerous than the 


 one Al Qaeda had in Afghanistan. And finally, No. 3, the 


 conflict in Iraq bleeds over into the neighborhood and 


 threatens serious regional instability.


He went on to state that this directly and immediately threatens the 
United States homeland because it:



 provides Al Qaida that which they are attempting to seek in 


 several locations right now, be it Somalia, the tribal area 


 of Pakistan or Anbar province--a safe haven to rival that 


 which they had in Afghanistan.


During his confirmation hearing before the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, GEN David Petraeus supported President Bush's plan to 
increase troop levels in Baghdad and Anbar province. In response to 
questioning before that committee, General Petraeus made it clear he 
believes that the reinforcement of soldiers into Baghdad and Anbar in 
Iraq will bolster the Iraqis' ability to stabilize their government and 
defeat the insurgency, instead of allowing them to continue to buck 
that responsibility, as some have asserted.

Many in Congress have stated publicly that this is the last chance 
the United States has to get it right in Iraq. If that is the case, I 
feel there is no general better qualified to be in charge of our ground 
forces and get things turned around on the ground than General 
Petraeus. I recognize that the American people have grown weary over 
the last months since the violence has escalated in Iraq, but I remain 
optimistic that the Iraqi government, with the aid of our soldiers, can 
turn things around.

I had the pleasure of meeting General Petraeus during one of my two 
trips to Iraq and was very impressed by his knowledge of the situation 
and his expertise in counterinsurgency. I have no doubt that General 
Petraeus is the right man to lead our forces in Iraq and I believe that 
he will overcome the new challenges he now faces. Let us not send the 
right man and then tell him it is the wrong job.

In closing, while I share the concerns of many of my colleagues 
regarding the situation in Iraq, I will support the President's plan to 
provide the reinforcements necessary to provide stability in Baghdad 
and Anbar province. I am hopeful that this plan will give the Iraqi 
government the best chance to stand on their own two feet and make the 
positive strides necessary to take control of the security situation 
and function as a stable government. It is this Senator's personal 
opinion that resolutions condemning the President's new way forward 
send the wrong message to our soldiers, the Iraqi people, and 
especially our enemies.

I certainly appreciate and support the role of Congress to provide 
oversight with respect to U.S. military engagements. However, I do not 
believe we should cripple the Commander in Chief's ability to work with 
our military leadership to defeat our enemies, and passing a resolution 
condemning the President's new plan for Iraq would do precisely that. 
Instead, I support resolutions that call for the support of the 
American people and Congress to give the President's plan a chance to 
work. Mistakes have been made, unquestionably, and the violence in 
Baghdad and Anbar province has grown to a level that few predicted, but 
I am not yet ready to throw in the towel on this President's new plan 
and our soldiers' ability to assist in stabilizing Iraq before they 
even get a chance to try.

Madam President, I yield the floor.