---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `0a838e5df0e10bc8628134c048420cf6`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. I thank you, Ms. Wasserman Schultz. I just 
want to bring up one other topic here as well before we yield back to 
Mr. Meek, and that is also, when we ask our men and women to go over 
there and fight, and then when they come home and they are not taken 
care of, we also need to remember who we are sending over there, our 
Reservists and National Guard, but who is joining them over there. This 
is a tangential but important topic. President Bush has talked a lot 
about this coalition of the willing, and we need to understand


that the American people, when they hear about the allied forces over 
there, know who they are now, because people are jumping ship faster 
than the evening news can keep up with it. Great Britain, Poland, 
Lithuania, South Korea. By the week, somebody else walks away. And as 
we make decisions in Iraq, like this plan for escalation in which there 
is not even a pretext of reaching out and forming some international 
consensus, remember when we went into Iraq in the first place, at least 
we tried to pretend that we were going to go through some international 
decision-making process. At least we sort of gave some faint illusion 
of using the United Nations as a forum for which to have this 
discussion. You didn't even hear a conversation about trying to reach 
out to our allies with this plan to escalate this war. I mean, we 
didn't. Because why? Because we knew if we asked Great Britain or 
Poland or South Korea or Lithuania to be part of this force, the answer 
would be pretty simple.