# NOMINATIONS
## `0a9818eafba0ea233c337455b895750c`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 17 July 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, on another issue, this is the 1-year 
anniversary of the nomination of Judge Robert Conrad to be a member of 
the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. When this Congress began, the 
majority leader and I agreed that partisanship in the judicial 
nominations process was unhealthy, and we said this Congress would be 
different. The Los Angeles Times and the Washington Post acknowledged 
the President did his part to get the process off to a good start back 
in the beginning of this Congress. They, and many others, complimented 
his good faith in not resubmitting circuit court nominees whom some of 
our Democratic colleagues did not like.

The majority leader himself said how much he appreciated the 
President's good faith. He said:




 I personally want the record to reflect that I appreciate 


 the President not sending back four names that were really 


 controversial.


The majority leader also said he and his colleagues had an obligation 
to reciprocate and treat circuit court nominees fairly. He said:




 I think we have to reciprocate in a way that is 


 appropriate, and we are going to try to do that by looking at 


 these nominees as quickly as we can.





So the question is, have the Democrats treated these nominees fairly? 
Have they, in fact, reciprocated?

Let's look at the facts. This President is in his final 2 years of 
office, and the Senate Democrats, of course, hope to recapture the 
White House. So, obviously, there is a partisan incentive not to 
confirm President Bush's judicial nominees. This is, of course, human 
nature, but this situation is not new. President Bush is not the first 
President to be in his final 2 years in office when the opposite 
political party controls the Senate, and he will not be the last.

Even with lameduck Presidents, there is a historical standard of 
fairness as to confirming judicial nominees, especially circuit court 
nominees. The majority leader and I agreed that this Senate should meet 
that standard. The average number of circuit court confirmations in 
this situation is 17. President Clinton had 15. This Senate has 
confirmed only 10 circuit court nominees. What happened?

Unfortunately, old habits are hard to break and, in my opinion, 
Democrats on the Judiciary Committee found it hard not to play 
politics. It started with the renomination of Judge Leslie Southwick.

Judge Southwick was a distinguished State court judge and an Iraq war 
veteran. Moreover, he was someone the committee Democrats had already 
approved unanimously to the district court. So at the beginning of this 
Congress when the President tried yet again to fill a vacancy on the 
Fifth Circuit that had existed for his entire Presidency, he did not 
resubmit a nominee the Democrats opposed. Instead, he quite reasonably 
nominated someone whom committee Democrats had already approved: Leslie 
Southwick.

How did the Judiciary Committee Democrats respond? With one 
exception, they did a total about-face and actually tried to filibuster 
Judge Southwick's nomination.

Unfortunately, Judge Southwick isn't the only consensus nominee who 
became ''controversial.'' Judge Robert Conrad is the chief judge of a 
Federal district court in North Carolina. The Senate has already 
approved him to important positions not once but twice; first, as the 
chief Federal law enforcement officer in North Carolina, and then to a 
lifetime position on the Federal trial bench. In addition, the ABA gave 
Judge Conrad its highest rating, unanimously ''well qualified.'' Former 
Attorney General Janet Reno called him ''an excellent prosecutor'' and 
said she was ''impressed with his judgment . . . and his knowledge of 
the law.''

Again, to resolve a dispute--this time over a Fourth Circuit seat--
President Bush did not resubmit a nominee whom Senate Democrats 
opposed. As with Judge Southwick, he nominated someone they had already 
approved, Judge Robert Conrad.


Guess what has happened. Well, nothing has happened. As of today, 
Judge Conrad has been sitting in the committee for 365 days, 1 full 
year, without a hearing, even though he meets all the chairman's 
criteria. He has the highest possible ABA rating, he has strong home 
State support, and he would fill a judicial emergency.

What is the result of all of this? While Judge Conrad waits in 
committee, the circuit court to which he is nominated is over 25 
percent vacant. Over one-fourth of its seats are empty. Its chief judge 
states that to keep up with its work, the court must rely heavily on 
district court judges. In short, it is robbing Peter to pay Paul. ''It 
goes without saying,'' she says, ''that having to use visiting judges 
puts a strain on our circuit. In particular, it forces the circuit's 
district judges to perform double duty.''

The situation on the Fourth Circuit is so bad that the ABA has made 
the crisis on the Fourth Circuit its lead story in the most recent 
edition of its professional journal. It is on the cover page.

Now, my friend, the majority leader, comes to the floor this morning 
and essentially says judges aren't important, and no one cares about 
them. Given the crisis in the Fourth Circuit--a crisis that is so bad 
the ABA is highlighting it--I can't imagine he would suggest such a 
thing. I am sure the millions of citizens of the Fourth Circuit don't 
think that having their appellate court over 25 percent vacant doesn't 
matter. I am sure they care very much about that. But evidently that is 
what the majority leader believes, and apparently he is not the only 
one in his conference who feels that way, given the lack of action in 
the Judiciary Committee.

The committee refuses to move Judge Robert Conrad's nomination or any 
other pending Fourth Circuit nominee. We are told Democrats do not 
support Rod Rosenstein's nomination to the Fourth Circuit--which is 
supported by the Washington Post--because he is doing too good a job as 
U.S. attorney. That is an interesting rationale for not moving someone.

We have another Fourth Circuit nominee, Judge Glen Conrad from 
Virginia. He is a Federal district court judge whom the Senate 
confirmed to the trial bench without any controversy. He has the 
support of both his home State Senators, one Democrat and one 
Republican. After he was nominated, the chairman said he would move him 
as long as there was time to do so. Specifically, he stated:




 I have already said that once the paperwork on President 


 Bush's nomination of Judge Glen Conrad to the Fourth Circuit 


 is completed, if there is sufficient time, I hope to move his 


 nomination.


Well, the chairman's conditions have been met with respect to Judge 
Glen Conrad's nomination. His paperwork has been ready for a month, and 
it is only July 17. The last time I looked, there were 12 months in a 
year. This is July 17. Clearly, we have time to confirm him, but yet we 
have no action on his nomination.

Now, our Democratic colleagues continually talk about the so-called 
Thurmond rule under which the Senate supposedly stops confirming judges 
in a Presidential election year. I am concerned that this seeming 
obsession with this supposed rule--which, by the way, doesn't exist; 
Senator Specter has researched that thoroughly and there is no such 
rule. Anyway, I am concerned that this seeming obsession with this rule 
that doesn't exist is just an excuse for our colleagues to run out the 
clock on qualified nominees who are urgently needed to fill vacancies.

No party is without blame in the confirmation process, but what is 
going on now--or, more accurately, what is not going on--is yet another 
step backward in politicizing the confirmation process--something we 
had all hoped we would get beyond.

It is the American people, especially those in the five States that 
make up the Fourth Circuit, who are suffering the consequences, and I 
am sorry the majority leader doesn't think that matters.

Madam President, I yield the floor.