# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `0a9c865947dedebfd37bba6596625a61`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Speaker, I am proud to join my colleagues in 
appreciation of our troops' exceptional service and sacrifice, and to 
voice my opposition to President Bush's plan to send more forces into 
what amounts to a civil war.

As a former member of the House Armed Services Committee and a new 
member of the Intelligence Committee, I recognize that our next steps 
in Iraq present one of the greatest security decisions our Nation has 
faced in decades.

The Iraq Study Group called the situation grave and deteriorating and 
said it requires a new approach. I agree. We can all conclude that an 
unstable Iraq, torn by sectarian conflict, would lead to continued 
violence and civilian casualties, provide combat training opportunities 
to those who would do us harm, and pose increased challenges to the 
region.

Yet I disagree with President Bush's misguided belief that sending 
more Americans into combat will solve the problem.

Our military has served valiantly for nearly 4 years, particularly in 
some very challenging and nontraditional missions, in some cases for 
which they were never trained. However, we have done all that we could 
do militarily to help the Iraqi people, and their problems no longer 
require a U.S. military solution. The underlying causes of violence are 
primarily political and must be addressed in that framework. Sending 
more troops would simply be a continuation of the same failed strategy.

In October of 2002, I expressed my concerns that President Bush's 
approach to Iraq could have dangerous ramifications in the region and 
America's own efforts in the war on terrorism. For those reasons and 
many others, I voted against authorizing use of force against Iraq, a 
war that was mismanaged by civilian leadership from the start.

Now, to address our troops' lack of protective gear and up-armored 
Humvees, I supported legislation to provide additional funding for 
proper equipment, as well as other efforts to assure our forces would 
be safe and effective. Now, however, we can best support our troops by 
changing our mission in Iraq and adopting a new strategy that reflects 
the realities on the ground. The Iraqis must now take the lead in 
providing for their own security, and we must reduce our presence to 
let them do so.

The President's claim that by adding 21,500 additional combat troops 
we can force a greater stability in Iraq is an argument that ignores 
some basic truths. Not only have past surges of U.S. forces proved 
unnecessary in reducing sectarian violence among Iraqis, but the 
addition of more troops would further inflame anti-American sentiment 
and turn popular opinion even more against us in our efforts. We have 
no proof that another surge would lead to a different outcome than in 
the past, but we do know that it would have negative consequences.

Now, perhaps of greatest concern is the impact of the surge on our 
military readiness. The President's estimate of 21,500 more combat 
troops does not count the additional 15,000 to 28,000 support troops 
that would be needed, spreading our military even more dangerously 
thin.

Madam Speaker, we have asked much of our forces, included repeated 
deployments, and a surge will only exacerbate that problem. Operations 
in Iraq have also taken their toll on our equipment.

According to the Government Accountability Office, 40 percent of the 
Army's and Marine Corps' equipment is now located in the Central 
Command theater of operations. Our National Guard/Reserve units are 
underequipped to deal with emergencies, and we have depleted our 
preposition stocks, which we need to respond quickly to other 
contingencies.

Now, in testimony before the Armed Services Committee in January, 
General Conway, Commandant of the Marine Corps, noted that an increase 
in forces in Iraq would increase our strategic risk and possibly lead 
to slower and less effective response to another potential threat.

Madam Speaker, sending more troops to Iraq is a dangerous gamble with 
our national security, and we need a new approach. A number of experts, 
including the Iraq Study Group, had made important recommendations, and 
they must not be ignored.

It is clear that the President's plan for escalation would harm our 
national security and ignores the will of the American people. I urge 
my colleagues to support this resolution so that we can promote a new 
strategy for Iraq and bring our troops home.