---
---

# TEMPORARY TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `0aa748e54f2e2d63f9e7da2e2f4b221a`
`Mrs. JONES of Ohio — 9 November 2007`

---


Mrs. JONES of Ohio. I thank my chairman for giving me this 
opportunity to be heard.

You know, my friend from New York, I tried to feel what he was saying 
to me. And it was emotional and everything, but it did not speak to the 
issue that we're talking about.

I went to law school, and I wanted to be a civil rights lawyer. I 
thought that if I was a great civil rights lawyer, I could really help 
the people of America, the people that live in my community. But I 
should have been a tax lawyer, because had I been a tax lawyer, then I 
would have better understood how I could help middle-class families by 
fixing the AMT. If I had been a tax lawyer, I would have understood how 
I could help people purchase homes and get a benefit from it. Had I 
been a tax lawyer, I would have understood how fairness operates in the 
United States of America through the Tax Code, because by the Tax Code, 
poor people might have a chance, working people might have a chance.

I say to my colleagues today, vote for this, vote for this bill. It 
may not be all that we wanted. And if you think about it, if we hadn't 
spent so many trillions of dollars in Iraq, maybe there would be a pay-
for in this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to see that today, the House is taking up 
tax relief for the 23 million Americans who otherwise would be saddled 
with the onerous alternative minimum tax. In addition, we are also 
providing relief for 7.4 million low-income workers by increasing the 
Earned Income Tax Credit.

Families across America will this weekend sit down at the dinner 
table take an accounting of their personal finances and balance their 
checkbook. The Government is charged with balancing the checkbook of 
the United States. While I enthusiastically support the efforts of 
private equity and hedge fund managers, I am very aware that service 
income is just that and should be taxed that way--at ordinary income 
rates. It is the responsible thing to do because we must not mortgage 
our future by continuing to borrow from foreign countries such as 
China.

We are also, Mr. Speaker, enabling more than 6.5 million working 
families to use the refundable Child Tax Credit. This is allowing more 
families to remove themselves from the depths of poverty. This 
legislation is helping Americans help themselves. It is okay to ask 
people to pull themselves up by their bootstraps, but if they don't 
have boots, we are asking too much. H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief 
Act is sound legislation, progressive tax policy and the right 
direction for America.

When a member of Congress hails from one of the poorest congressional 
districts in America as I do, there is a special responsibility to 
ensure that the interests of constituents are being addressed. That is 
why I am pleased to see that while we are pursuing a patch for the AMT, 
we are also increasing the Earned Income Tax Credit for an additional 
7.4 million low-income workers.

The alternative minimum tax is an important issue for the American 
middle class taxpayer who does not get to take advantage of 
sophisticated tax planning and legal loopholes in the tax code. It is 
time that we addressed this issue once and for all to relieve the 
American taxpayer from the agony and pain that arise from having to 
figure out their taxes twice in order to come up with their tax 
liability.

It is particularly ironic that a tax that was meant for a few wealthy 
individuals has become the bane of existence for millions of American 
taxpayers, who could be affected. Indeed the AMT has become a menace. 
Over 7,000 hardworking Ohioans in my district had the grim task of 
filing a return with AMT implications in the 2005 tax year. Those are 
families with children, healthcare costs, unemployment issues, housing 
costs and the other money matters with which American taxpayers must 
cope. Relief is due.

We should consider alternatives to this alternative that might 
include a complete repeal. Relief is due. ''Taxes are what we pay to 
live in civilized society,'' but dealing with the AMT has become a bit 
uncivil.

On the one hand we have people that have to live paycheck-to-paycheck 
and on the other hand we have partners in partnerships, whether they be 
real estate or private equity who sippeth from the public trough. I am 
cognizant that many of these partners work diligently to bring 
companies to market and to grease the wheels of capitalism from which 
we all benefit, from East Cleveland to East L.A. to East Harlem. As I 
mentioned after the introduction of Representative Levin's H.R. 2834, 
we must applaud the efforts of American capitalists and the strides 
that they make in fostering growth in our economy and, the global 
economy to wit. Yet we must also tax compensation income as 
compensation income and capital gains thusly.

We must also be mindful of the effect that our tax policy has on 
potential reinvestment in low-income and minority communities. It is 
important to note that women and minorities are often the last to the 
table and just when they are getting ready to participate in the large-
scale ''financial festival'' that is private equity and hedge funds, 
etc, the rules appear to be changing. It is incumbent upon members of 
the aforementioned parties that fair and equitable tax policy should 
not be confused with the opening up of capital markets and the 
extension of new opportunity.

The tenets of sound tax policy begin with the notions of equity, 
efficiency and simplicity. Relying on that traditional framework I am 
sure that we have come to a rational consensus.