---
---

# None
## `0aab77c83b05864b60ea1f70cb867ac4`
`Mr. CONYERS — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, colleagues, appropriations bills are 
moral statements. They document the direction that we as a Congress 
desire our Nation to go. With our vote on H.R. 3043 today, we once 
again have an opportunity to show Americans that the 110th Congress is 
committed to taking our Nation in a New Direction--putting the needs of 
the American people first and making long-delayed investments in our 
future.

Unfortunately, this commitment to improving the lives of our 
soldiers, veterans and ordinary Americans seems not to be shared by the 
President. The Administration apparently feels that while it is 
necessary to spend $12 billion a month in Iraq, the Federal Year 2008 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill is 
just $9.8 billion too expensive and needs to be vetoed. He believes 
that an extra $10 billion to provide grants to low-income children for 
after school programs, increasing the purchasing power of Pell Grants, 
fund job training programs for dislocated workers and helping families 
facing rising energy prices with the Low Income Home Energy Assistance 
Program is just wasteful spending.

The President, in an attempt to burnish his credentials as a bona 
fide fiscal conservative, now seems to know the cost of everything and 
the value of nothing. I wonder where this conservatism was from 2001 
through 2006, when the Republican-led Congress went on a deficit 
financed spending spree with our national treasury taking the United 
States from a $5.6 trillion, 10-year surplus to a $2 trillion, 10-year 
deficit.

By passing H.R. 3043, which combines the Labor, Health and Human 
Services, Education FY 08 Appropriations bill and the Military 
Construction, Veterans Affairs FY 08 Appropriations bill, we will be 
making the largest investment in veterans' health care in history and 
making long overdue investments in education, worker safety and health 
care for our citizens.

If the President is truly concerned with how his legacy will read, I 
urge him to listen to the overwhelming bi-partisan majority in Congress 
that supports H.R. 3043. Mr. Bush, help us reverse the sharp rise in 
college costs that continue to be a barrier to millions of low- and 
middle-income students by increasing the Pell Grant from $4,050 to 
$4,435. Help us increase access to Head Start programs so that more 
disadvantaged children have access to preschool. Provide a 10.1 percent 
increase for community health centers, an increase that will serve an 
additional 1 million uninsured people. Stand with the strong bipartisan 
majority that passed both these bills this summer. Mr. President, 
approve this bill and help us make America stronger.