# COMMENTS TO INTERACTION ANNUAL FORUM
## `0aba5217f001d9a30afc31db656f88d1`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 12 May 2008`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Madam Speaker, last week I had the 
opportunity to speak at InterAction's Annual Forum in the Washington 
area regarding the importance of modernizing U.S. foreign assistance. 
With 165 member organizations, InterAction is the largest coalition of 
U.S.-based international nongovernmental organizations focused on the 
world's poor and vulnerable people. I would like to enter my remarks 
from this event into the Congressional Record.










Comments to InterAction Annual Forum




 Thank you for the invitation to be here today. I'd like to 


 thank InterAction's President, Sam Worthington, along with 


 Todd Shelton and Evan Elliot for being great partners and 


 extraordinary advocates for your organizations and people in 


 need around the world.



 Like all of you, I strongly believe foreign assistance and 


 development are part of the essential work of the U.S. 


 Government and essential to our country's role as a super 


 power.



 I support a back-to-basics approach to development. For me, 


 investments in child and maternal health, clean water, basic 


 education, family planning, agriculture and food security are 


 the foundation of successful long-term development. This is 


 the work your organizations do everyday.



 In my travels to places like Tanzania, Malawi, Afghanistan 


 and Peru I have seen both real human need and real successes 


 from U.S. development investments. And it was in these 


 travels that I met you--smart, committed, passionate people 


 giving hope and opportunity to people who often have very 


 little.



 Today, I want to talk with you about our present 


 challenge--doing development better. It's time to modernize 


 and strengthen U.S. foreign assistance to meet the challenges 


 and realities of the 21st century. I know modernizing foreign 


 assistance is a priority for InterAction and your efforts to 


 inform and educate Congress are important and appreciated.



 The 9/11 Commission predicted future threats to America 


 would be transnational rather than international. We didn't 


 have to wait long. A new generation of moral and national 


 security challenges have already reshaped our foreign policy, 


 including: terrorism, ethnic conflicts, food security, global 


 health threats, climate change . . . the list goes on.



 Confronting this new generation of challenges demands that 


 we make foreign assistance especially development--central to 


 our foreign policy.



 The Pentagon appears to be convinced. Last November, 


 Secretary of Defense Gates said, 'One of the most important 


 lessons from our experience in Iraq, Afghanistan, and 


 elsewhere has been the decisive role reconstruction, 


 development, and governance plays in any meaningful, long-


 term success.'



 Our top security officials know that sandals on the ground 


 today can prevent boots on the ground tomorrow. Development 


 is the right thing to do and it's a smart investment.



 The direct link between development and security is now 


 national policy. President Bush's 2006 National Security 


 Strategy states, 'Development reinforces diplomacy and 


 defense, reducing long-term threats to our national security 


 by helping to build stable, prosperous and peaceful 


 societies.'



 Foreign assistance is more important to America's national 


 security and foreign policy than ever before. But our Cold-


 War mechanisms aren't up to the challenge.



 The structure of U.S. foreign assistance needs 


 modernization. Today, more than 20 executive branch agencies 


 have responsibility for administering foreign assistance 


 programs. This means duplication, confusion




 and inefficiency. But the problem goes beyond structure.



 What is the overarching strategy guiding U.S. foreign 


 assistance? The 1961 Foreign Assistance Act is still the 


 basis for policy. Nearly 50 years of amendments have burdened 


 the Act with conflicting objectives and priorities. Your 


 organizations feel the impact of this confusion in the field, 


 as do the families and communities you serve.



 We need a new strategy focused on today's global realities. 


 We need to find agreement on a coherent foreign assistance 


 strategy and we need to create the necessary structure to 


 implement it.



 We all know there are strains on the current system. Due in 


 part to a lack of confidence and capacity in civilian 


 agencies, the U.S. military has become a major player in 


 development. I want to read you a quote from last week's 


 Financial Times article entitled: ''US military seeks more 


 Afghan aid funds.''



 'U.S. forces in east Afghanistan are already involved in a 


 variety of non-military activities, from road-building to 


 improving farming techniques . . . The Commanders' Emergency 


 Response Fund allows battalion commanders to spend up to 


 twenty-five thousand dollars on anyone project without 


 seeking permission from higher command. Taskforce chiefs can 


 spend up to two-hundred thousand.'



 How many of you have this kind of discretion with U.S. 


 funds? Our troops are the best in the world, but they aren't 


 development specialists. Major development projects need to 


 be implemented by development professionals. If civilian 


 agencies aren't working we need to fix them, not ignore them. 


 If there aren't enough civilian personnel, we need to hire 


 and deploy more of them.



 Expanding global security and prosperity in the 21st 


 century requires a new American commitment to foreign 


 assistance. That means being smarter about our strategy, 


 structure and resources. We need comprehensive modernization. 


 Half-way reforms won't cut it.



 Blue-ribbon panels, commissions, think tanks and NGOs have 


 reached the same conclusion. There's agreement that: 


 resources should be matched to objectives; results should be 


 measured; the Government's civilian capacity should be 


 expanded; the number of agencies responsible for development 


 should be reduced; and development should be elevated to be 


 an equal partner with defense and diplomacy.



 Today, development isn't an equl partner with defense and 


 diplomacy--it's not equal strategically or structurally. It's 


 often, at best, a secondary concern. There are different 


 ideas about how to elevate development. Some suggest the 


 solution is an expanded role for development within the State 


 Department. Others may want to build up USAID to its former 


 glory.



 I strongly believe the U.S. needs a cabinet-level 


 Department of Development. A cabinet-level Secretary of 


 Development could advocate directly to the President for 


 long-term development investments, aid effectiveness, and 


 coordination across agencies.



 The national security policy of the United States is clear: 


 defense, diplomacy, and development are the essential 


 components of America's engagement with the world. It's time 


 to translate that policy into reality by elevating 


 development as a foreign policy priority.



 Some of my colleagues may disagree. I welcome that, because 


 it means they've joined the debate. Many Members of Congress 


 haven't. Many Members still don't fully appreciate the 


 linkages between national security and foreign assistance.



 Chairman Berman announced that rewriting the Foreign 


 Assistance Act will be the top priority for his Committee 


 next year. Because of his leadership, the debate over 


 modernization will take place. To be successful in the House, 


 and the Senate, and the White House with this huge effort, 


 we'll need a broad, bipartisan consensus that U.S. foreign 


 assistance is vital to America's national security and too 


 important not to fix.



 And to be successful, a commitment to change and 


 modernization needs to be a priority for the next 


 Administration. This means we need to make sure the 


 Presidential campaigns are engaged. Those of you with 


 advocacy arms in your organization should be asking the 


 Presidential candidates three questions: Do you believe 


 foreign assistance is important to America's future role in 


 the world? How will you elevate development to realize the 


 goals of U.S. national security strategy? Will you support 


 modernizing foreign assistance to meet the needs of the 21st 


 century?



 And we need to be asking candidates for the Senate and the 


 House the same questions.



 Friends, this is an important moment. You cannot be shy or 


 quiet.



 We have a unique opportunity to create a strategy for U.S. 


 foreign assistance rooted in innovation, coordination, and an 


 understanding of culture and the complexity of local 


 conditions. We have the responsibility to make the needs of 


 the world's poor a strategic U.S. priority.



 Together, we can get more for every dollar invested, by 


 finding ways to better leverage bilateral, multilateral, 


 private sector and NGO investments.



 And together, we can refocus our nation's global 


 development policy on achieving quality outcomes for families 


 in the world's poorest countries.



 This is our work and I look forward to the challenge ahead.



 Thank you.



