---
---

# PRESCRIPTION DRUG USER FEE AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `0ac1e1212534900cc2d465b423763a0f`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I rise today to join so many of my 
colleagues, so many of those in the military and so many of the 
American people in urging the President to sign the emergency spending 
bill that relates to Iraq when it reaches his desk. Despite what the 
President keeps repeating, we can do both--we can fund the troops and 
change our mission in Iraq. The emergency spending bill we will send to 
the President shortly gives our troops all the money they need and even 
more than the President requested, and it changes our mission in Iraq 
from policing a civil war to focusing on counterterrorism.

It has been 4 long years since President Bush landed on the USS 
Abraham Lincoln and prematurely announced ''mission accomplished'' in 
Iraq. Today, 4 years later, there is one thing on which the American 
people, bipartisan majorities in both Houses of Congress, military 
experts, and the Iraq Study Group all agree: We clearly have not 
accomplished our mission in Iraq, and the only way to succeed is to 
change our current course of action.

It seems only the President and his small band of advisers think we 
have accomplished our mission in Iraq. Only he thinks we should stay 
the course. Only President Bush seems to think the only way to support 
our troops is for the Congress to be a rubberstamp to his policies. 
That is not what the American people want, and that is not what America 
is about. The American people want a change in mission. They want a new 
direction, not more of the same failed policies. That is why, if the 
President really supports our brave men and women fighting in 
Afghanistan and Iraq, he will sign the legislation that we will send to 
him very soon.

The bill provides reasonable and meaningful guidelines to protect our 
troops by ensuring that all units that are sent overseas to fight are 
ready, trained, and equipped to fight. It will require the Department 
of Defense to adhere to its own guidelines to ensure that every unit 
that is deployed is ''fully mission capable'' for the task at hand.

Why would the President want to send our troops into Afghanistan and 
Iraq, into fierce battles against the Taliban and the Sunni insurgency 
without the training and equipment needed to get the job done and to 
come home safely? But if the President vetoes this bill, he will not be 
so required.

More important, this legislation shows both the United States and the 
Government of Iraq how to change the failing strategy in Iraq. It has 
been clear all along that this administration has failed to plan for 
the war. They gave no thought what it would take to accomplish this 
mission. There was no planning for the day after.

When you think about this, it is infuriating; to think that just 
showing strength alone would solve the whole problem. That kind of 
careless, narrow thinking has led us to where we are now.

This administration and its President seem to be lost in Iraq. They 
can only do more of the same. We put in more troops to support a 
government that every day gets weaker and weaker, that seems to be 
crumbling from both the Shiite and Sunni side. Why are we putting more 
troops in Iraq to defend a government that nobody seems to like and in 
whom nobody seems to have much faith? The escalation is not working.

As a result, our mission in Iraq has devolved so that most of what we 
do is patrol, police, and stand in the middle of a civil war. The 
Sunnis and the Shiites have hated each other for centuries. Their 
enmity goes way back. They will continue to hate each other, to not 
work with each other, to fight with each other long after we have gone, 
whether we stay 3 months or 3 years. Yet most of the time our troops, 
our brave men and women, are simply caught in the middle of a civil 
war, and we have not even chosen a side. We are just in the middle, and 
they are just in the middle--trying to defend themselves in the middle 
of a civil war when we don't know which side we are on, and we are 
unable to bring the two sides together. It is a debacle.

That is why the Congress is demanding that the President change the 
current mission in Iraq. As we all know, including General Petraeus, 
the solution to violence in Iraq is ultimately political and not 
military, and that is why Congress has imposed tough benchmarks on the 
Government of Iraq. We cannot afford to send more military troops 
without doing something to change this weak, almost feckless 
Government. Our original purpose in Iraq was to fight terrorism. I 
believe we must continue to fight terrorism; I know that from what 
happened to my city, my beloved city, and the friends I lost and think 
of every day.

This legislation says let's go back to that original purpose, 
counterterrorism, as well as force protection and training the Iraqis. 
Instead of policing a civil war, U.S. forces will protect U.S. 
facilities and citizens, including members of the U.S. Armed Forces 
engaged in targeted counterterrorism missions to prevent anything that 
happens in Iraq from hurting us at home and continue to train and equip 
Iraqi security forces, although I must say that has not worked out very 
well thus far.

I believe these benchmarks are reasonable and achievable with renewed 
political will from this administration and from the Government in 
Iraq. The benchmarks were not just pulled out of the air. They were 
suggested by the bipartisan, highly qualified, highly knowledgeable, 
highly experienced Baker-Hamilton commission. But more important, they 
signify the changes in strategy that must be implemented to correct the 
administration's failing strategy in Iraq.

This is President Bush's war, but he has failed time and time again 
to make the difficult leadership decisions that are needed to protect 
our troops in Iraq. If he vetoes this bill, as he has threatened to do 
on many occasions, our brave men and women will continue to fight a 
brutal war with no forward-look strategy, no long-term plan, little 
regional support, and little chance of establishing a stable, 
representative government in Iraq. Every day it becomes more clear the 
President never had a working plan for Iraq.

So we have a mission. It is a sacred and important mission. We must 
change the mission in Iraq away from


policing a civil war and toward counterterrorism, which requires fewer 
troops and gets many more of them out of harm's way. That is what our 
bill does. It is what the American people want. It is what the facts on 
the ground demand.

I urge the President to strongly reconsider this threat to veto this 
legislation. If he does, he will be making a terrible mistake, one that 
all of us and maybe even he will come to regret. I urge the President 
to sign the supplemental because it gives our troops and veterans the 
resources they need. It honors the sacrifices of those serving in Iraq 
with a change in mission that is long overdue, and it is my hope that 
one day we will all be able to say that we have accomplished our 
mission in Iraq. But until we change our mission and put in place a 
winning strategy, that day will continue to elude us.

I yield the floor.