# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `0ac7bd03a3e9f8105471a301c88c97d6`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 22 December 2010`

---


Mr. CORNYN. I thank the Chair. I assure my colleagues, I will not use 
the full hour, which I am sure is good news.

Mr. President, I oppose the ratification of the New START treaty for 
the reasons many of my colleagues have articulated and to which I have 
previously spoken. The treaty requires unilateral reductions of the 
United States on strategic nuclear weapons. It fails to address 
tactical nuclear weapons--an area in which the Russian Federation has a 
10-to-1 advantage. This is not an idle or incidental matter.

GEN Nikolai Patrusheb, Secretary of the Russian National Security 
Council, a body in charge of military doctrine, has declared that 
Russia may not only use nuclear weapons preemptively in local conflicts 
such as Georgia or Chechnya but may deliver a nuclear blow against the 
aggressor in a critical situation, based on intelligence evaluations of 
his intentions.

I submit also that the verification provisions of this treaty are 
weak, allowing only 18 inspections a year for an arsenal of more than 
1,500 weapons. Obviously, the ability to get more than a sampling of 
Russian Federation compliance would be impossible given the relatively 
few number of inspections permitted under the treaty.

As we have discussed off and on over the last few days, the preamble 
of the treaty itself is ambiguous and has been construed by the 
Russians themselves as limiting the ability of the United States to 
expand its own missile defense system.

I realize the President of the United States has submitted a letter 
stating his unilateral opinion of what that treaty obligation means, 
but, of course, treaty obligations are not unilateral declarations, 
they are bilateral agreements. Of course, the consequence of a


misunderstanding over this important issue of missile defense could 
allow either side to withdraw from the treaty and, indeed, the threat 
of withdrawal from the treaty because of this misunderstanding is 
something that could be avoided in the first instance if, in fact, some 
of the amendments addressing missile defense were allowed and the 
treaty modified to that extent. At that time, the Russians could then 
be asked: Will you agree with this modification, and we would know 
upfront, not on the back end, their sincere intentions.

But I would say that the New START treaty has flaws when you look at 
it, not only in its various provisions; that is, when you reason from 
the whole to its parts, but I would suggest the treaty also fails when 
you look at it the other way around, when you reason from the parts to 
the whole, when you see this treaty is another example, another 
symptom, of a foreign policy that sends a message of timidity, even 
ambivalence, not only about our own security but about America's 
leadership role in a very dangerous world.

This larger strategic context is what we need to keep in mind. We all 
know that President Obama has set incredibly high expectations for his 
Presidency in terms of how he would conduct American foreign policy. In 
an early Presidential debate, for example, he promised to meet with the 
leaders of five rogue nations--Iran, Syria, Venezuela, Cuba, and North 
Korea--''without precondition during the first year of [his] 
administration.'' Well, we now know that never happened.

After he won the nomination, you will recall, in his famous speech he 
gave in the city of Berlin, while still a candidate for the Presidency, 
he declared he was a ''citizen of the world.'' Also, he said: ''This is 
the moment when we must come together to save this planet.''

President Obama was not the only one promoting a grandiose vision of 
his Presidency. Remember the Nobel Prize Committee received his 
nomination for the Peace Prize less than 6 weeks after President Obama 
took office. In the citation for the award last year, they said:




 [President] Obama has as President created a new climate in 


 international politics. . . .



 Only very rarely has a person to the same extent as Obama 


 captured the world's attention and given its people hope for 


 a better future.


You might ask, What relevance does this have to our consideration of 
the START treaty? The relevance is that a big part of this utopian 
dream of a ''new climate in international politics'' has been the 
elimination of all nuclear weapons.

In that Berlin speech, then-Senator Obama said that one of his 
priorities was to ''renew the goal of a world without nuclear 
weapons.''

The citation for the Nobel Peace Prize included this observation:




 The Committee has attached special importance to Obama's 


 vision of and work for a world without nuclear weapons.



 The vision of a world free from nuclear arms has powerfully 


 stimulated disarmament and arms control negotiations.


Indeed, in an op-ed piece, authored by the Secretary of State Hillary 
Clinton, dated April 7, 2010, in the Guardian, she argues that the 
START treaty is an important step toward a nuclear-free world.

So you might ask, what is wrong with a vision of the world without 
nuclear weapons? Can't we hope and dream? Of course, even without 
nuclear weapons, we know that in World War I and World War II tens of 
millions of people lost their lives in armed conflict. So it is not as 
if a world without nuclear weapons is a world without war and a world 
without danger for peace-loving nations such as ours and our allies.

We also know that any number of foreign policy experts have expressed 
serious reservations about indulging in this fantasy of a world without 
nuclear weapons.

George Kennan has said:




 The evil of these utopian enthusiasms was not only or even 


 primarily the wasted time, the misplaced emphasis, the 


 encouragement of false hopes. The evil lay primarily in the 


 fact that those enthusiasms distracted our gaze for the real 


 things that were happening. . . .The cultivation of these 


 utopian schemes, flattering to our own image of ourselves, 


 took place at the expense of our feeling for reality.


The President of the United States has not only mused about fantastic 
notions that have no basis in the real world, he has criticized his own 
country on foreign soil so often that some called that particular trip 
''the world apology tour.''

So what should our competitors and would-be adversaries make of these 
statements of a fantasy world that is nuclear free and a President who 
travels abroad and apologizes for America's strength? Regretfully, I 
can only conclude it sends an impression of weakness and a lack of 
determination to maintain America's leadership in the world. We know 
there are dangerous consequences associated with an interpretation by 
others that America has lost its resolve to lead the world or to 
maintain its own security and to protect its allies.

President Reagan said famously:




 We maintain the peace through our strength; weakness only 


 invites aggression.


Experience has proven the truth of those words.

We should recall that the President of the United States conducted 
YouTube diplomacy by recording a video for Iran's leaders--but then 
withheld comment when those same leaders were brutally crushing a pro-
democracy movement and their own people's hopes for freedom.

The President has treated several of our allies without the respect 
they deserve. Some have been, like Britain, slighted; others, like 
Israel, have been lectured; and other of our allies have been thrown 
under the bus on missile defense, like Poland and the Czech Republic.

He has been so idealistic and naive, you might say, about the subject 
of nuclear weapons that President Sarkozy of France remarked about it 
publicly at a meeting of the United Nations Security Council. He said:




 We live in the real world, not in a virtual one. . . .



 President Obama himself has said that he dreams of a world 


 without nuclear weapons.



 Before our very eyes, two countries are doing exactly the 


 opposite at this very moment.


President Sarkozy said:




 Since 2005, Iran has violated five Security Council 


 Resolutions. . . .


He said:




 I support America's ''extended hand.'' But what have these 


 proposals for dialogue produced for the international 


 community?



 Nothing but more enriched uranium and more centrifuges.



 And last but not least, it has resulted in a statement by 


 Iranian leaders calling for wiping off the map a Member of 


 the United Nations.


I fear the New START treaty will serve as another data point in the 
narrative of weakness, pursuing diplomacy for its own sake--or 
indulging in a utopian dream of a world without nuclear weapons, 
divorced from hard reality.

Last week, I mentioned that Doug Feith, formerly of the Defense 
Department, helped negotiate the Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty, 
known as the SORT treaty. Mr. Feith said that during the negotiations 
of the SORT treaty, the Russians were constantly trying to get the 
United States to negotiate away our right to defend ourselves from 
missile attacks through a robust missile defense program.

The Bush administration rightly rejected those Russian demands and--
you know what--we got a good treaty anyway. The Obama administration, 
on the other hand, gave Russia what it wanted--or what it says it 
wanted--among other concessions. But that is not the only concession 
that was given under the New START treaty.


I would ask my colleagues, Where are the concessions that Russia made 
to us in this treaty? Where are the concessions that Russia made to us? 
And what in the treaty is a good deal for the United States?

But my colleagues may reply, So what. So what if the Obama 
administration's world view is a little bit naive. So what if the 
Russians negotiated a much better deal for themselves than the Obama 
administration got for the United States. Shouldn't we go ahead and 
approve the treaty anyway? What harm could it do? Couldn't it help 
build a better relationship with the Russian Federation and help 
transform America's reputation in the world?

Those are actually good questions. But the answers are sobering. The 
administration has long argued that its approach to diplomacy was not 
only


good for its own sake, but it would strengthen relationships with 
nations all around the world. I would ask you, how has that worked out?

Charles Krauthammer reviewed the global response to President Obama's 
diplomatic overtures in this way. He said:




 Unilateral American concessions and offers of unconditional 


 engagement have moved neither Iran nor Russia nor North Korea 


 to accommodate us.



 Nor have the Arab states--or even the powerless Palestinian 


 Authority--offered so much as a gesture of accommodation in 


 response to heavy and gratuitous American pressure on Israel.



 Nor have even our Europe allies responded: They have anted 


 up essentially nothing in response to our pleas for more 


 assistance in Afghanistan.


And, of course, we could look at the results of the New START treaty 
itself. Russian leaders have responded to American concessions with 
contempt. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has said that the 
treaty ''cannot be opened up and become the subject of new 
negotiations.'' Prime Minister Putin has threatened a new arms race if 
Russia does not get its way with this version of the treaty. Russian 
leaders have the temerity to lecture and attempt to intimidate the 
Senate from discharging our constitutional responsibilities. We should 
not succumb.

In deciding whether to vote for the treaty, I would respectfully ask 
whether some Senators have been asking themselves the wrong question. 
Instead of asking ourselves the question, Why not ratify? What is the 
harm? I would suggest that the better question is, Why should we? I 
would urge my colleagues to vote against this treaty not because I do 
not care about the message it will send to Russia and other nations but 
because I do care about that message, and it is time we stop sending a 
message of weakness that only encourages our adversaries.

I urge my colleagues to vote no on this treaty, to require the 
administration to go back to the negotiating table with the Russians, 
to get a better deal for the United States, and to make clear that the 
era of unilateral American concessions is over.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.

Mr. VITTER addressed the Chair.