# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `0aca7739242b29513627f323604acd79`
`Mr. ORTIZ — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. ORTIZ. Mr. Chairman, given the many challenges faced by our 
Nation--and our military--I'm pleased that the House moved the Defense 
Appropriations bill quickly.

Chairman Murtha is doing some very heavy lifting for the Nation, and 
I thank you for your work.

This bill also contains a significant investment for South Texas, 
which contributes significantly to the Nation's military readiness. As 
the House point man on Readiness matters in our military, I have been 
deeply concerned that the Iraq conflict has eroded the readiness of the 
U.S. armed forces, perhaps for a generation.

At a time when we need to be more ready than before, this is a 
tremendous cause for alarm.

Today's bill addresses many of our current needs associated with: 
beefing up today's ground forces--our boots on the ground overseas; 
addressing the many failings of this administration and the last 
Congress in ensuring our military is ready for any challenge we need to 
meet, such as finally providing oversight of contractors in Iraq and 
Afghanistan; fully funding critical needs at depots that supply our 
troops; providing funds for National Guard equipment to make us safer 
here, and make our soldiers safer on the battlefields; and providing 
assistance for wounded warriors.

I thank the gentleman from Pennsylvania for his hard work on the 
bill; and the gentlewoman from New York for her work on this rule.

I urge my colleagues to support both the rule and the bill.