---
---

# IRAN SANCTIONS ENABLING ACT OF 2009
## `0ae1b029dce47429e51cae4cc6f29018`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 14 October 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise in support of 
H.R. 1327, the ''Iran Sanctions Enabling Act of 2009.'' This 
legislation, if enacted, will enhance U.S. capacity to further isolate 
Iran and pressure the government to abandon its military nuclear 
program.

The recent discovery of a secret enrichment facility at Qom serves as 
a clear reminder that Iran continues to flagrantly disregard 
international non-proliferation agreements, and poses a direct and 
dangerous threat to the peace and security not only in the Middle East, 
but also around the world.

Unfortunately, the concealment of the facility at Qom is only the 
most recent in a long line of deplorable and illegal behavior by the 
Iranian government. From seeking to acquire nuclear weapons and evade 
IAEA inspectors, to continuing to threaten Israel and opposing the 
Middle East peace process, to supporting international terrorism, to 
its deplorable human rights record--specifically surrounding the recent 
elections--the government of Iran has consistently acted in a 
reprehensible and dangerous manner.

The only effective way to achieve lasting peace and prosperity in the 
region, along with bringing about reforms in Iran's polity, is to 
assist the Iranian people in their quest to achieve political, social, 
and religious liberty. Every government can be judged with the way in 
which it treats its ethnic and religious minorities, and the current 
Iranian government gets a failing grade for its treatment of its many 
and diverse minorities

While the government's actions in the international community deserve 
our condemnation, we must distinguish between Iranian people and their 
government. This fall, I was optimistic that the elections in Iran 
would serve as a catalyst for change, but given the absence of fair and 
free elections, coupled with the government's poor record for 
transparency and accountability, I believe that the democratic voices 
in Iran need our help to achieve change.

The results of the recent election clearly showed that there was no 
chance for Iranian citizens to participate in Democracy. On June 12, 
2009, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was ostensibly re-elected to his second term 
as President, as a result of the tenth Presidential elections in Iran, 
held and calculated on June 13, 2009. Subject to official results 
released by Iran's election headquarters, out of a total of 39,165,191 
ballots cast in the Presidential election, Ahmadinejad allegedly won 
24,527,516 votes, which accounts for approximately 62.6 percent of the 
votes, while his opponent and former Prime Minister of Iran Mir-Hossein 
Mousavi purportedly secured only 13,216,411 (37.4%) of the votes. 
Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei announced that he envisions Ahmadinejad as 
president in the next five years, a comment interpreted as indicating 
support for Ahmadinejad's reelection, and so it happened exactly that 
way.


In the aftermath of an election crisis we must not forget that Iran 
is marching ever closer to the development of a nuclear weapon, as they 
continue the pursuit of enriching uranium. Iran's nuclear program, 
coupled with its continued military assistance to armed groups in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, the Palestinian group Hamas, and to the Lebanese Hezbollah 
has been the basis for President Obama's characterization of Iran as a 
''profound threat to U.S. national security interests.''

Yet the last Administration's approach of isolationism failed to stop 
or even slow the escalation of Iran's nuclear development. The recent 
discovery of a secret enrichment facility at Qom serves as a clear 
reminder that Iran continues to flagrantly disregard international non-
proliferation agreements, and poses a direct and dangerous threat to 
the peace and security in the Middle East, and around the world.

In that vein we do not want to ostracize Iran, as has been done in 
the past. This Administration indicated that if Iran refuses to come to 
the ''nuclear bargaining table'' by late September 2009, sanctions will 
resume. This deadline passed, and Iran has not changed. Consequently, 
it is time that we move to enable effective sanctions to remind Iran 
that we remain serious in our demands. This bill does not move the U.S. 
past the point of no return in regards to sanctions, but, it sends a 
clear message to Iran while enabling more effective sanctions in the 
future.

Mr. Speaker, although Iran has committed heinous human rights 
violations, and continues to threaten its neighbors, I do not believe 
that it is productive to punish Iran for their past delinquencies. 
Instead, we should use our threats and sanctions to persuade the 
government of Iran to change its behavior by holding free and fair 
elections, allowing dissent, and finally ending its military nuclear 
program. I hope that, one day in the near future, we will lift these 
sanctions; but, until reforms are implemented, we must remain vigilant 
in pressuring Iran.

Last year, this body passed H.R. 7112--The Comprehensive Iran 
Sanction Act, but the Senate failed to follow suit. It is my hope that, 
this time, our colleagues in the Senate realize how much is at stake 
and act quickly to pass this legislation.

Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of this legislation.
