# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `0ae19045b7fbb77245f4f0f38c86d25c`
`Ms. COLLINS — 1 October 2009`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the Fiscal 
Year 2010 National Defense Appropriations Act. Let me begin by thanking 
the committee's distinguished chairman, Senator Inouye, and ranking 
member, Senator Cochran, for their leadership in crafting this bill and 
for their strong commitment to our Nation's Armed Forces.

This legislation will provide funding for essential training, 
equipment, and support to our troops as they bravely and skillfully 
engage in national security efforts at home and abroad. This is a 
critical time in our Nation's history and the committee has, once 
again, demonstrated its strong support of our soldiers, airmen, 
sailors, and marines.

This legislation also will fund critical force protection and health 
care initiatives for our troops, while continuing development of 
important technologies and acquisition programs to counter existing and 
emerging threats.

The legislation before us includes a strong commitment to 
strengthening Navy shipbuilding. Our Nation needs a strong and modern 
naval fleet allowing us to project power globally and to respond to 
threats. This bill authorizes $1 billion in funding for construction of 
the third DDG-1000, a priority of mine. The Pentagon's decision to have 
Bath Iron Works, BIW, build all three of the DDG-1000s demonstrates 
well-deserved confidence in BIW and will help ensure a stable work load 
for the shipyard and more stable production costs for the Navy.

In addition, this legislation authorizes $2.2 billion for continued 
DDG-51 procurement and nearly $150 million for the DDG-51 modernization 
program. The lessons and technology developed in the design of the DDG-
1000 can be incorporated into the DDG-51 program to reduce crew size 
and to improve capabilities.

The legislation fully funds the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter request for 
both the Navy and the Air Force. This aircraft, powered by the superb 
engines made by Pratt & Whitney, will enable our service men and women 
to continue to maintain our air superiority.

An additional $1.5 billion is included for the National Guard and 
Reserve equipment account, which should help sustain critical equipment 
such as combat vehicles, aircraft, and weapons. This funding should 
directly benefit the Maine National Guard's readiness posture as 
additional units prepare to deploy to Iraq and Afghanistan in the 
upcoming year.

At the request of Senator Snowe and myself, the committee provides 
$20 million for humvee maintenance to be performed at Maine Military


Authority's, MMA, Army National Guard Readiness Sustainment Site, RSMS, 
located in Limestone, ME. For nearly 13 years, the Army National Guard 
has relied on Maine Military Authority to provide a dependable service 
to our Nation's warfighters. The dedicated and talented professionals 
at MMA have demonstrated their value to the Army and to the Nation and 
consistently have performed humvee refurbishment at a lower cost than 
the Army's own depots. This funding would help to ensure that MMA's 
valued workforce and high quality product remain a national asset 
supporting the defense of our country.

The bill also provides $240 million for cancer research through the 
Defense Health Programs with $150 for the Breast Cancer Research 
Program, $80 million for Prostate Cancer Research Program, and $10 
million for the Ovarian Cancer Research Program. I believe that there 
is simply no investment that promises greater returns for America than 
its investment in biomedical research. These research programs at the 
Department of Defense are important to our Nation's efforts to treat 
and prevent these devastating diseases that also affect our veterans 
and service members.

The bill provides $307 million to address the Tricare private sector 
shortfall in fiscal year 2010 as identified by the Department of 
Defense. I know Tricare funding is vital to so many Maine veterans. We 
must continue to support robust funding for this important program and 
limit increases in Tricare premiums and copayments.

I strongly support the additional $15.6 million to strengthen the 
Office of the Inspector General in order to keep pace with the growth 
in the size of the defense budget and the number of defense 
contractors. More vigorous oversight of defense contracts to prevent 
waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayer dollars will complement the 
procurement reforms we approved earlier this year.

The Senate's fiscal 2010 Defense appropriations bill also includes 
funding for other defense-related projects that would benefit Maine and 
our national security. Funding is provided, for example, to Saco 
Defense in Saco, ME, to enable the company to continue manufacturing 
weapons that are vital to the Armed Forces.

In addition, at my urging, the legislation appropriates $3.6 million 
for the University of Maine. This funding would support the development 
of LGX high temperature acoustic wave sensors and allow the University 
of Maine to continue to investigate fundamental sensor materials and 
design concepts as well as demonstrate functional prototypes of 
acoustic wave sensors that will be tested under extreme temperature 
environments. The funding for the university will also provide for 
woody biomass conversion to JP-8 fuel, which will provide affordable 
alternative sources for military aviation fuel.

The appropriations bill provides the vital resources that our troops 
need and recognizes the enormous contributions made by the State of 
Maine to our national security. From the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in 
Kittery to the Pratt and Whitney engine plant in North Berwick to BIW's 
shipbuilders to the University of Maine's engineers to the Maine 
Military Authority in Aroostook, Mainers all over our State are leading 
the way to a stronger national defense.