---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `0ae8d70c7123413b51c09585c59a54b0`
`Mr. BAYH — 20 January 2010`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise with a heavy heart to honor the life 
of PFC Brian R. Bowman from Waveland, IN. Brian was 24 years old when 
he lost his life on January 3 when insurgents attacked his unit in 
Ashoque, Afghanistan. Brian was serving as a medic in the 1st 
Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 4th 
Infantry Division at Fort Carson, Colorado, as a part of Operation 
Enduring Freedom.

Today, I join Brian's family and friends in mourning his death. Brian 
will forever be remembered as a loving son and friend to many. Brian is 
survived by his devoted wife Casie, his father Robert Bowman and mother 
Paula J. Gerdes, two sisters and countless friends and relatives.

Brian was a Crawfordsville native who grew up in Waveland. Prior to 
entering the service in August of 2006, Brian graduated from Southmont 
High School in 2004. A gifted musician, he played the baritone for the 
Royal Mounties who were perennial contenders in the Indiana State 
Fair's band competition. His father said that he gave up sports to be 
in the band because he loved music.

While we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we can take 
pride in the example Brian set as a soldier, a husband, a son and a 
brother. Today and always he will be remembered by family, friends and 
fellow Hoosiers as a true American hero, and we cherish the legacy of 
his service and his life.

As I search for words to honor this fallen soldier, I recall 
President Lincoln's words to the families of soldiers who died at 
Gettysburg: ''We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot 
hallow this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, 
have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The 
world will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can 
never forget what they did here.''

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Brian R. Bowman in the Record 
of the U.S. Senate for his service to this country and for his profound 
commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. I pray that Brian's family 
finds comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah who said, ''He will 
swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from 
off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Brian.
