---
---

# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `0aedd4b617cd9fa3b77a6cb4b71d7c12`
`Mr. ROGERS of Michigan — 18 June 2009`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, we have, I think, the most 
important decision we're going to make in the years ahead on how we 
look at the war on terror. Prior to 9/11, look at the events. The 1993 
Twin Tower bombings, the USS Cole, the East African bombings. And after 
the 1993 bombings, we decided to continue our effort to treat the war 
on terror as a law enforcement exercise, and it led all the way through 
to 9/11. And this body, collectively, said we have a very important 
decision to make now after the 9/11 attacks.

We said it's either going to be a crime or it's going to be an act of 
war. This body, in overwhelming numbers, decided it was an act of war, 
and we aggressively pursued our counterterrorism efforts around the 
world, and we pursued those who attacked us with absolute vigilance, 
and it has been successful. No one can argue it has not been 
successful.

Think of what happened right after that. We policed up Khalid Sheikh 
Mohammed, and because he had been schooled in the United States, the 
very first thing he told those who grabbed him was, I want a lawyer. 
Thank goodness, thank the good Lord above, they said, Sorry, pal. 
You're not a United States citizen. Have a seat.

As for those interrogations between KSM and the other two very senior 
members of al Qaeda, our intelligence services tell us that 60 to 70 
percent of what we know about al Qaeda and how it functions came from 
just those interrogations--60 to 70 percent. That's by the 
understanding of our intelligence community. From there, we pursued 
globally the effort to aggressively pursue those who attacked us and 
the network of al Qaeda.

After the President said he would not propose reading Miranda rights 
as if they were shoplifters, imagine our shock when we found they had 
sat down with the Justice Department and with others and had cooked up 
a plan called the Global Justice Initiative to change the priority from 
intelligence-gathering on the field to law enforcement on the field. 
What does that mean?

It means, when they were picking up somebody on the battlefield in 
Afghanistan, after attacking, say, the 82nd Airborne or after putting 
out IEDs to kill civilians or Afghans or U.S. soldiers, he was brought 
back to a detention facility, and they said, We might want to prosecute 
that person in the future. Sir, you have the right to remain silent.

I cannot tell you how dangerous that is to our national security. It 
is not a law enforcement event. It is an enemy combatant event. The 
information that that individual has is perishable. Maybe they're 
making those IEDs. Maybe they're financing the networks that make those 
IEDs. Maybe they're the ones who are planning the very next attack on 
U.S. soldiers. We need them to talk. We don't need to treat them like 
United States citizens. As a matter of fact, for those on whom they 
have been doing this, the individuals aren't even Afghan citizens. 
They're from around the world, directly and intentionally coming to 
Afghanistan to kill U.S. soldiers.

This is a serious shift in policy on how we pursue our 
counterterrorism efforts--the most important, I think, we will debate 
here. This is our chance to send a message, a very clear message.

As the senior FBI official told us, the reason they're going to do 
this and are doing this is that they want to err on the side of 
prosecution. I say, Mr. Speaker, that we err on the side of the safety 
of the men and women in our United States military and of the people 
right here at home.

If you don't think it's happening, it is.

A letter dated June 12 from the FBI Director says that the proposal 
would also ensure, when possible, that the intelligence is gathered in 
a manner that best preserves future options vis-a-vis the individual 
terrorists at issue, including gathering evidence in a manner that 
ensures its integrity in the event a prosecution becomes the most 
desirable approach, which is FBI legalese speak for saying, Listen, 
we're going to treat them all like we're going to prosecute them.

Imagine the tension between the CIA and the DIA and the other law 
enforcement community efforts when these enemy combatants come in, when 
somebody reads them their rights, when the CIA knows they have 
information that may save the life of a soldier. The confusion that we 
interject


onto the battlefield is wrong, and it is dangerous.

Mr. Speaker, this is our chance. This is our chance together, in a 
unified way--in the same way that we stood up after 9/11 and said, It 
is not a crime; it is an act of war; enough is enough. Don't give them 
the rights of a United States citizen. Give them the rights of an enemy 
combatant and all that comes with it, and we help the 101st Airborne 
Division.