# HONORING MILITARY SUPPORT GROUPS
## `0af79d40e17302525e45163e8992ac5a`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 15 September 2008`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might 
consume.

I rise today in support of House Resolution 1200, honoring the 
dedication and the outstanding work of military support groups for 
their steadfast work on behalf of the members of the Armed Forces and 
their families.

Over 1.7 million military men and women have deployed to Iraq and 
Afghanistan since September of 2001, many of whom have been deployed 
more than once. These military men and women have left behind beloved 
parents, siblings and spouses. More than 782,000 children have had 
parents leave the confines of their home to serve the Nation nobly. 
These soldiers and their families face a daily struggle with constant 
and sustained deployments. Children are left to cope with the 
difficulties of a sustained deployment with one parent supporting the 
family, and some are even left with other family members.

Military men and women and their families make tremendous sacrifices 
every single day to serve and protect our country. These heroes deserve 
all the medical, the financial, the educational and moral support that 
our Nation can provide them. Military support groups, with that mission 
in mind, work diligently to provide essential support and services to 
the members of the Armed Forces and their families. They provide a 
compassionate community of supporters to military families, whether 
their loved ones are at home or abroad. Whether it's finding a job, 
replacing a broken oven in a home, or offering moral support by sending 
care packages to soldiers abroad, our American military support groups 
and their volunteers work tirelessly to serve the men and women who 
serve to protect our way of life.

The positive impact that military support groups have on our soldiers 
and their families is invaluable. As Secretary of Defense Robert Gates 
recognized, the families and community members who support America's 
troops are ''the power behind the power.'' You can go to the America 
Supports You Web site which lists the hundreds of military support 
groups across our country. The Web site also has many


stories of dedication, hope, kindness and generosity.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 1200 is our way, in Congress, of 
honoring the commitment and the outstanding work of military support 
groups and their volunteers across the country for their unwavering 
support of America's troops and their families. We honor their selfless 
service to American troops and their loved ones. As a cosponsor of 
House Resolution 1200, I urge my colleagues to join me in support of 
this very important resolution.

I reserve the balance of my time.