# REMEMBERING THE EVENTS OF NOVEMBER 5, 2009, AT FORT HOOD, TEXAS
## `0af9a74ee34920fe23545667d438ebe4`
`Mr. McCAUL â€” 16 November 2009`

---


Mr. McCAUL. I thank the gentleman from Indiana and your great 
comments. And you're a true patriot to this country. I mean that very 
heartfelt.

We've gotten so wrapped up in this political correctness, we're 
prohibited from calling this the war on terror. That's been taken out 
of the vernacular. And you wonder how a man like this could be 
transferred and then promoted. And with all the flags and contacts with 
al Qaeda recruiters, how did this happen? Why wasn't that information 
shared? Why, when these flags went up, weren't we able to act upon it?

We know for years that al Qaeda has been targeting bases both in the 
United States and abroad. It's a homeland security threat, it's a 
national security threat abroad. They tried to do that with Fort Dix, 
and we stopped it with good intelligence. They tried to do it with 
other military installations in the United States.

So when this evidence got out there, the real question I think we in 
the Congress need to ask is: Why didn't his superiors know about this? 
Or, when his colleagues heard the ranting and raving by him, having a 
business card saying he is a soldier of Allah, saying that his loyalty 
is first and foremost to the Koran, not the Constitution.

And the gentleman from Indiana is right. I worked in the Justice 
Department, a Federal prosecutor at the Joint Terrorism Task Forces. 
The National Intelligence Estimate says the most effective weapon we 
have is a moderate Muslim--the Muslim who will come forward and help us 
in the mosque to say there is an individual out here that we believe to 
be a threat to the security of the United States. Obviously, this man 
was. But, for whatever reason, nothing was done about it, and 13 
soldiers are dead and 30 more are wounded.

We in the Congress have a role, an oversight role to get to the 
answers, to fix the problem, to make sure it didn't happen. The whole 
point after 9/11 was to make sure that we shared intelligence and 
information to better protect the American people. And I see no greater 
homeland security issue than protecting our bases right here in the 
United States.

As I said at the outset, when I visited the soldiers at Fort Hood for 
the memorial service, they say, Congressman, we see this in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, but we don't expect that to happen at home. Not in our 
home. Not on our base. This was not supposed to happen. And the 
question is: Is this man--did he infiltrate or was he a ''lone wolf'' 
acting on his own without any outside influence?

We don't know the answer to those questions. We have been told that 
from the very day after this occurred that he was a lone wolf acting on 
his own. There's a term ''rush to judgment.'' In my view, I think that 
was a rush to judgment, the idea that he was acting as a lone wolf 
before we got all the evidence in front of us.


All we are asking in the Congress is that we review the matter. I 
have great hope that the majority will work with us in a bipartisan way 
to provide that oversight that this body, this distinguished body, by 
the Constitution has the authority to: To get to the real answers for 
the American people as to whether this man had radicalized on his own, 
which he clearly did--he radicalized--or whether he is being 
facilitated by people on the outside, and whether al Qaeda had 
something to do with this. Because they got a playbook, and they go 
back to the playbook.

They had the World Trade Center bomber. They went back to the World 
Trade Center. They tried to hit the Capitol. That's their playbook. 
They will, in my view, try to hit the Capitol again. Chemical 
explosives. Ramzi Yousef, when he was arrested in Islamabad, a very 
chilling story. He had multiple baby dolls that he had stuffed with 
chemical explosives. He was going to take those baby dolls onto 
airplanes, known as the Bojinka Plot, and blow up 12 commercial 
airliners simultaneously. They go back to that playbook. We've seen 
chemical explosives come up over and over again.

Military installations are in their playbook. And we need to take the 
protection of our military installations both here in the United States 
and abroad very, very seriously. And when a man like this gets in and 
gets promoted and perpetrates what he did, one of the greatest acts of 
violence on a military base since Pearl Harbor, then we need the 
answers to these questions.

There are so many flags in this case. Not only this individual, but 
what was he doing with Pakistan. What influence did Pakistan have on 
this individual. The American people need to know the truth. We need to 
know it not as a ''gotcha'' exercise, but as a way to look forward and 
say, How can we better protect the American people from individuals 
like this and our soldiers from people like this? How can we better 
protect bases here in the United States?

We know he contacted many radical Web sites, posted very radical 
thoughts on these Web sites. It's time for us to stand up and have 
hearings on this matter and answer these fundamental questions.

Tonight, to the families of the victims, our heart goes out. We hear 
the cries. As we saw the 13 combat boots, the rifle, and the helmet 
portrayed in that picture, it was one of the saddest days and darkest 
chapters, I think, in American history. As we go forward, I believe we 
need to get the answers to these many, many questions that are out 
there.

Probably the hardest thing we have to do as Members of Congress is to 
comfort families who have lost their loved ones. I will never forget 
that day at Fort Hood at the memorial service, talking to the 
survivors, particularly some of the spouses who lost their husbands 
that day, to the mothers, fathers, and brothers and sisters; talking to 
the wounded victims who were shot by this man.

As we comfort these families, as we have with soldiers coming back 
from Iraq and Afghanistan and those who died, it is one of the most 
difficult things as Members of Congress, one of the most solemn 
responsibilities that we have. We know that words cannot give them back 
what they lost. We grieve their loss in the Congress. We stand by the 
families of the victims. With that, let me say God bless them.

I know we have another colleague from Texas who I know is here. When 
he is ready to speak, I'd like to yield to my good friend from Texas. 
Then I will reclaim my time and yield to the gentleman from Indiana.