---
---

# GAS PRICE RELIEF FOR CONSUMERS ACT OF 2008
## `0b03079b2060b593a8ccc9e46fbb21fc`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 19 May 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from 
Virginia for his leadership, and I appreciate greatly the leadership of 
Dr. Kagen of Wisconsin for this enormously thoughtful legislation for 
it is focused, if you will, on moving the ball forward for suffering 
constituents, whether they're in Wisconsin, Virginia, Texas. Even oil- 
and gas-producing States such as Texas are facing the crisis of oil 
shortages, gasoline high prices and difficulties for working men and 
women.

Why is this thoughtful? I serve on the Antitrust Task Force on the 
House Judiciary Committee, and we're looking at broad-based issues, 
domestic and international, on how prices are being either constrained 
or expanded by the idea of maintaining price controls.

And so OPEC itself, being with many of its members who are part of 
the WTO, certainly can be subjected to the question that is raised by 
this legislation.

The bill authorizes the Attorney General to establish a Department of 
Justice petroleum industry antitrust task force, very thoughtful and 
forward-thinking. This task force has the responsibility to develop, 
coordinate and facilitate the implementation of the investigative and 
enforcement policies of the Department of Justice related to the 
petroleum industry.

We must do something, and this is a complement to the very important 
work that the Democrats did moving forward very important energy 
legislation that deals with alternatives, that really spoke to Mom and 
Pop, that spoke to the truck drivers.

And I look forward to working with my colleagues as we move this 
legislation forward to address the question of whether OPEC is 
manipulating prices. Certainly, it can be a better approach on what 
happened over the last couple of days when we know that one of the


OPEC members simply said I'll give you a few pennies on the market by 
offering up an extra couple of barrels of oil.

This is a reasoned perspective, and so I would reach out to the 
administration to work with us. The energy bill is languishing. Why? 
Because we hear that the administration will, in fact, veto it.

There are some ideas that I think are important. Those of us on the 
gulf region have supported a safe, environmental process of exploring 
in the gulf. Some of us do believe that there can be a moratorium on 
gasoline taxes if it comes from someplace other than the Highway Trust 
Fund.

Dr. Kagen's bill is meaningful; it is forthright. It says what it 
wants to do, and it gives the procedures for doing so with an important 
task force that questions OPEC and its ability to manipulate prices. It 
is answering the question of those Americans who are in need of relief, 
those truck drivers who are in need of relief, and I ask my colleagues 
to support again this very thoughtful legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6074, the ''Gas Price 
Relief for Consumers Act of 2008.'' I support this bill.

The purpose of this bill is to amend the Sherman Act to make oil-
producing and exporting cartels illegal and for other purposes. The 
bill makes it illegal for any foreign state or instrumentality to act 
collectively or in combination with any foreign state, to limit the 
production or distribution of oil, natural gas, or any other petroleum 
product. It also makes it illegal to set or maintain the price of oil 
or natural gas, or petroleum product or otherwise take any action in 
restraint of trade for such products.

The bill authorizes the Attorney General to establish in the 
Department of Justice a Petroleum Industry Antitrust Task Force. This 
Task Force has the responsibility to develop, coordinate, and 
facilitate the implementation of the investigative and enforcement 
policies of the Department of Justice related to the petroleum 
industry.

The bill authorizes the Task Force to provide an annual report to 
Congress describing the investigatory and enforcement efforts. The bill 
also requires the Government Accountability Office to conduct a study 
evaluating the effects of mergers addressed in merger consent decrees 
on competition within 1 year of enactment of this bill.

This bill is an important effort to address the oil crisis faced by 
the United States. Americans are in desperate need of relief. 
Increasingly, as the economy spirals into a recession, Americans must 
choose between food, energy, and gas. This crisis is of national and 
international importance.

Oil prices have not been regulated since the Reagan Administration; 
however, the market situation since 2004 has yielded little excess 
capacity. Because OPEC determines the supply of oil vis-a-vis demand, 
it plays a significant role in the determination of the price of oil in 
the world market. Whereas OPEC is comprised of approximately 13 
countries, it has 75 percent of the world's oil reserves, which affords 
it considerable control over the global market. OPEC produces 40 
percent of the world's oil needs with approximately 30 million barrels 
of oil per day. The rest of the oil refineries in the world are 
producing at full capacity. Given their large oil reserves, OPEC 
countries have considerable capacity, which if utilized could 
ameliorate the current oil crises.


The weakening value of the dollar, political uncertainty and unrest 
in places such as Nigeria, Venezuela, India, and China exacerbate the 
problem. Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, member countries of OPEC, have the 
capability of producing more oil. In addition, another OPEC member 
country, Iraq, has the capability of producing more oil. Despite this 
excess capacity, the OECD countries and other major oil importers such 
as Japan and the EU, are paying higher prices for oil. Worse still is 
the plight faced by the developing world. While the developed world is 
facing high oil prices, the developing world is facing even higher 
prices with the weakening value of the dollar. Food prices all over the 
world are rising and instability is growing. Something must be done and 
this bill is a first step.

In Houston, Texas, retail gas prices are above $3.60 a gallon and 
will likely continue to rise this summer. Many analysts see prices 
peaking closer to $4 a gallon. Gas prices are rising on concerns about 
supplies and demand. Analysts say refiners have cut back on gasoline 
production because of low profit margins; the rising price of crude 
means it costs them more to refine gas.

Demand for gasoline is expected to fall by 85,000 barrels a day this 
summer compared to last because of high prices and the weak economy. 
This would be the first summertime decline in gasoline demand since 
1991. To date, however, falling demand has failed to deflate surging 
gas prices, which are putting more pressure on consumers. Consumers are 
already suffering from higher food prices, falling home values, and a 
tight job market.

This important bill seeks to address the oil crisis from a domestic 
standpoint. It is an important first step. While the bill amends the 
Sherman Act to make oil-producing and exporting cartels illegal, I 
believe more can be done, and I work to ensure that all Americans will 
benefit from affordable oil and gas prices.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.