# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `0b048ca232c0551f02842328cde2e2ca`
`Mr. REYES — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. REYES. Madam Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Chair, I am very proud of this bill, and I am proud of the work 
we all put into it. I realize there are some political differences. You 
have heard the minority go from characterizing bugs and bunnies. Well, 
I think bogeyman politics doesn't work with the American people. It 
doesn't work with the challenge that we are facing in Iraq, and it is 
not going to fly with what we are doing with this intelligence bill.

This bill does not make cuts. It adds funds to both CIA and military 
elements for human intelligence training. It adds funding for sending 
additional analysts overseas.

Yes, I agree with the former ranking member, we should be concerned 
about al Qaeda. The ranking member mentioned the potential attacks 
against Fort Dix last week. So this is serious business. We know it is.

This is an important piece of legislation that I hope everyone knows 
it is imperative that they support. The men and women of the 
Intelligence Community don't care about mischaracterizations. They 
don't care about talking about slam dunking and bugs and bunnies and 
all of these other rhetorical phrases that the minority likes to engage 
in. They care about support from Congress.

This bill gives the Intelligence Community the support that they 
need. All you have to do is travel around the world and listen to them. 
I am proud of this legislation.

By strengthening our Nation's Intelligence Community, we will be able 
to detect and disrupt the plans of those that are threatening our 
national security. I urge my colleagues to support this critical piece 
of legislation.