# TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST  HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `0b0492ee81bcfb718cc11bb77c4eff1f`
`Mr. THUNE — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, the amendment I called up and made pending, 
5076, is an amendment we have been working on for some time. The 
Senator from North Dakota, Senator Dorgan, is going to offer a second-
degree amendment to this, but what I wish to simply say, by way of 
speaking to the amendment, is this is an important piece of 
legislation. No one can deny that since its enactment in 2003, PEPFAR 
has helped provide basic medical care and other services to those in 
need throughout Africa and around the world. There is clearly still a 
need for many of these services worldwide, and I applaud the United 
States for the leadership it has taken in combating HIV/AIDS overseas. 
Unfortunately, there are also many individuals in America who are 
struggling to meet many of the basic standards of living, including 
many Native Americans, with whom the United States has a trust 
responsibility.

My bipartisan amendment, which has six cosponsors, seeks to ensure we 
do not turn our backs on these critical domestic needs by redirecting 
$2 billion in authorization, or 4 percent of the overall cost of the 
bill, over the next 5 years to tribal public safety, health, and water 
projects. This modest redirection will still allow for PEPFAR 
authorization levels over three times their current amount, or $18 
billion over the President's request, while at the same time starting 
to address some very critical needs here at home. Unfortunately, many 
of these needs are great. Nationwide, 1 percent of the U.S. population 
does not have safe and adequate water for drinking and sanitation. On 
our Nation's Indian reservations this number climbs to an average of 11 
percent, and in the worst part of Indian country that number is 35 
percent. This lack of reliable, safe water leads to high incidence of 
disease and infection. The Indian Health Service has estimated that for 
each $1 it spends on safe drinking water and sewage systems, it gets a 
twentyfold return in health benefits. The IHS estimates that in order 
to provide all Native Americans with safe drinking water and sewage 
systems in their home, they would need over $2.3 billion. What this 
amendment does is it starts to address that need by authorizing $1 
billion for that important critical infrastructure need.

When it comes to the issue of health care--and that is where the 
second-degree amendment of the Senator from North Dakota will add to 
what my amendment does--we have Native Americans who are three times as 
likely to die from diabetes as compared to the rest of the population. 
In fact, an individual who is served by the IHS is 6/1/2/ times more 
likely to suffer an alcohol-related death than the general population. 
An individual served by IHS is 50 percent more likely to commit suicide 
than the general population.

In terms of my State of South Dakota, on the Oglala Sioux 
Reservation, the average life expectancy for males is 56 years. In Iraq 
it is 58, in Haiti it is 59, and in Ghana it is 60--all higher than 
right here in America on our Indian reservations.

In South Dakota, between 2000 and 2005, Native American infants were 
more than twice as likely to die as non-Native infants. In South 
Dakota, a recent survey found that 13 percent of Native Americans 
suffered from diabetes. That is twice the rate of the general 
population, where only 6 percent suffer from that disease.

With respect to public safety, which is essential, because without 
safety children cannot learn and economic development cannot occur, one 
out of every three Native American women, according to the national 
statistics, will be raped in their lifetime.

According to a recent Department of Interior report, tribal jails are 
so grossly insufficient when it comes to jail space that only half of 
the offenders who should be incarcerated are being put in jail. That 
same report found that constructing and rehabilitating only those 
detention centers that are most in need will cost $8.4 billion.

Again, when you drill down to my State of South Dakota, the South 
Dakota Attorney General just released a new study on tribal criminal 
justice statistics this week, and according to that study homicide 
rates on South Dakota reservations are almost 10 times higher than 
those found in the rest of South Dakota. Forcible rapes on South Dakota 
reservations are seven times higher than those found in the rest of 
South Dakota.

The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe has a crime rate six times higher than 
the rest of the country. This crime rate places them in the top 15 for 
reservations nationwide, which is a drop from last year's rating, which 
had them in the top 10. Unfortunately, this drop has nothing to do with 
improving public safety on Standing Rock but instead is because of 
worsening crime rates and conditions on other reservations.

By way of example, some of these critical unmet needs have actual 
consequences in the day-to-day operations of tribal courts and law 
enforcement, and I want to point out one example from the Standing Rock 
Sioux Reservation, which borders South Dakota and North Dakota.

Earlier this year, the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation had six police 
officers to patrol a reservation the size of Connecticut. Now that 
means that during any given shift, there was only one officer on duty. 
One day in particular, the only dispatcher on the reservation was out. 
That left one police officer to act both as a first responder and also 
as the dispatcher. Not only did this directly impact the officer's 
ability to patrol and respond to emergencies, it also prevented him 
from appearing in tribal court to testify at a criminal trial.

In the Rosebud Sioux Tribal Court there was another example of a 
tribal prosecutor who was scheduled to attend court proceedings that 
day but who didn't appear in court that morning. Being somewhat alarmed 
by this, the tribal judge sent a court employee to the police 
department to ensure that the prosecutor was not hurt or in an 
accident. Once it was clear that the prosecutor had not been injured, 
but instead just did not make it to court that day, all cases scheduled 
had to be dismissed because no replacement prosecutor was available. 
Cases that were dismissed included sexual assault, domestic violence, 
child abuse, and DUIs.

Again, what this amendment does, very simply, is it redirects $2 
billion of the $50 billion that would be authorized under this bill for 
PEPFAR--$1 billion to an emergency plan for Indian public safety, and 
$1 billion to clean water programs--and then, as I said earlier, by way 
of a second-degree amendment that will be offered by the Senator from 
North Dakota, $250 million to health care. Within 1 year, the Attorney 
General, the Secretary of Interior, and the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services shall establish an emergency plan to address law 
enforcement and drinking water needs of Indian tribes.


Specifically, the amendment requires the authorization to be spread 
equally between public safety and water projects as follows: $750 
million for public safety, of which $370 million would be used for 
detention facility construction, rehabilitation, and replacement. That 
is through the Department of Justice; $310 million for the BIA's Public 
Safety and Justice Account, which funds tribal police and courts; $30 
million for investigations and prosecutions of crimes in Indian 
Country, which includes the U.S. attorneys and FBI; and $30 million 
would be used by the DOJ's Office of Justice Programs for Indian and 
Alaska Native programs. Finally, $10 million for cross-deputization or 
other cooperative agreements between State or local governments and 
Indian tribes and $250 million for health care, which will be split, as 
the Director of Indian Health Services determines, between contract 
health services, construction and rehabilitation of Indian health 
facilities and domestic and community sanitation facilities serving 
Indian tribes, and, as I said, $1 billion for water projects which will 
be used to implement Indian water supply projects approved by the 
Congress.

We have been working now the last several days on this amendment. I 
thank my colleagues who have been involved with that. Senator Kyl is a 
cosponsor of this amendment. Last week he and I worked to put this 
amendment together, to file it. Subsequent to that, I began to work 
with Senator Dorgan, who chairs the Indian Affairs Committee in the 
Senate, trying to get sort of a bipartisan agreement we could proceed 
on that included not only water


development and law enforcement but also Indian health services.

I also thank Senator Biden and Senator Lugar, the managers of the 
bill, for their cooperation on this, in making it possible for us to 
proceed to a vote and actually to do something meaningful to address 
the very desperate and acute needs that exist across this country on 
America's Indian reservations.

Some of the statistics I have quoted show the needs are very real. In 
the area of law enforcement and public safety, we have a crisis across 
this country when it comes to making sure we meet the needs of Native 
Americans living on our reservations--that they can live with basic 
public safety and security, that they have access to basic 
infrastructure such as water and health care.

Those are all things this amendment is designed to address, and it 
does it in a way that is consistent, I believe, with the purpose and 
intention of the underlying bill, which is to provide many of these 
same services to those in Africa. As I said earlier, I believe it is 
critically important that in the context of addressing those needs, we 
address the very important needs at home, in our own backyard. In South 
Dakota, we have nine tribes. In many of our reservations, the poverty 
rates and the degree of hopelessness and despair that exists on the 
reservations comes back to these very issues. It comes back to a lack 
of infrastructure, it comes back to the need for basic public safety 
and security, and it comes back to the need for critical health care 
services that are often unmet on America's Indian reservations.

I thank my colleagues for working with me. I thank those who have 
cosponsored the amendment and the managers of the bill for working with 
us to put it in a form that could be accepted. I hope as it proceeds to 
the House--as indicated in conversations and discussions with the 
chairman of the committee last night--that we will be able to retain 
the amendment when it gets to that point in the process.

Again, I offered the amendment, got it pending, and I know the 
Senator from North Dakota, my colleague, has some remarks he wants to 
make with regard to his amendment and his second degree. At this point, 
I yield the floor to allow him to make those observations.