# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `0b11f7399b60b300d10058dab691f8b8`
`Mr. KERRY â€” 17 December 2010`

---


Mr. KERRY. I know another Senator is about to be recognized and I 
will not take very long.

Let me just say I understand the frustration of colleagues. I truly 
do. I think my colleagues know the good-faith efforts the President, 
the Vice President, myself, and others have made to try to move the 
schedule here. The fact is, we began debate on this treaty on Wednesday 
afternoon--Wednesday morning, but we were delayed slightly--Wednesday 
afternoon after Senator Lincoln's farewell. We had opening speeches. 
Everybody argued it was important to have opening speeches and not 
necessarily have an amendment right away; we need to have openings. So 
we had openings. Then we had the second day of debate. Today, Friday, 
we have had the third day of debate.

So tomorrow, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, we have the 
opportunity to have the fourth day, fifth day, sixth day, which is what 
colleagues said we needed to try to accomplish this--maybe 6 days--and 
I believe we can do it in that period of time.

I have been here for 25 years. I have been here when we have had a 
Republican President and a Republican majority leader. I have been here 
when we have had a Democratic President and a Republican majority 
leader and a Republican House and every variation. Inevitably, we have 
had some tough choices to face which don't please everybody. There are 
times when we are forced to try to deal with the business of our 
country. I respect completely--I have worked so closely with the 
Senator from Arizona for so many years. I know the feelings are what 
they are. But this treaty is, in our judgment and in the President's 
judgment, important to our national security. We have 150,000 troops 
out there across the world--Iraq, Afghanistan. They are pretty 
uncomfortable tonight, but they are doing their job. I believe we need 
to do our job here and not necessarily spend so much time worrying 
about schedule, which often we don't control, for one reason or 
another.

I know the Senator is upset about something that came over from the 
House. We don't control the House. The House made a decision to pass 
something and send that to us, and the majority leader, for all the 
obvious reasons, feels compelled it is something he ought to deal with.

So let's do this business. Let's not complain. I think the important 
thing here is to keep working. It is Friday night. I will stay as late 
as anybody wants to bring an amendment. Tomorrow we have some votes. We 
may or may not have intervening business. I don't know what the outcome 
of those votes will be. But we have the ability to continue on this 
treaty, and we certainly have the ability to finish it well before 
Christmas. The majority leader has made it clear to me. There are only 
four items or five items that have to be dealt with. The spending, and 
now that is going to be short-term spending until we resolve the 
differences. So we have spending. The second item is the two votes 
tomorrow, that is three items, and perhaps one other vote on the New 
York thing--I don't know what the situation is on that--and the START 
treaty. So on two of those items, I think most people understand we are 
not sure what the outcome is going to be. One we may be on for 1 day. 
It is hard to say. But other than that, this is the only business.