# None
## `0b2b6b1e702a0a74bd4c998edc4f5d05`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Well, I thank the Chair, and this is a historic night. 
The Senate will stay in session all night to debate the war in Iraq, 
something we should be doing. Frankly, Mr. President, we should have 
done it a while ago.

The bottom line is we need debate and to focus attention on Iraq. We 
need to change the course in Iraq. We need to bring an end to having 
American soldiers police, patrol, be wounded, maimed, and killed, as 
they are in the midst of this civil war not of our country's making.

The bottom line is this. We are here to debate the one true 
resolution that will force the President to change course in Iraq. Many 
of us, sadly, and with some degree of frustration, believe the 
President will not change course. Many of us believe the facts on the 
ground are not apparent to him or, if they are, do not enter into his 
decision. The view that military strength, and military strength alone, 
can prevail in Iraq is wrong. The facts do not measure up. The Shia, 
the Sunni, the Kurds have had age-old enmity. If I had to sum up the 
problem with the President's policy in a sentence, I would say this: 
The Shias, the Sunnis, the Kurds dislike each other far more than they 
might like any central government of Iraq.

In a certain sense, what we are trying to do here is to take two 
''norths'' on a magnet and try to push them together. The minute we 
release our hands they will push apart. Those are the facts on the 
ground that cannot be avoided.

We can add another 20,000 troops or another 40,000 troops and might 
get some degree of pacification for a period of time. As soon as we 
leave, whether it is in 3 months or 3 years, the Sunnis, the Shiites, 
the Kurds, and the various factions will be fighting with one another 
once again.

There is indeed--and I will elaborate--there is indeed a need to 
protect ourselves from terrorism that might generate from the chaos in 
Iraq. That does not require 160,000 troops patrolling the streets of 
Baghdad. Most of what our soldiers do--bravely, gallantly, with great 
dedication to their country, but unfortunately--most of what our 
soldiers do has absolutely nothing to do with fighting terrorism. Yet 
we continue to send them back and then back again and then back again.

I hope my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, particularly 
those who have stated that the present policy is misguided, and even 
those who probably think it is misguided but don't want to say it out 
of loyalty to the leader of their party, will take a bold step and join 
us in supporting the Levin-Reed amendment. All of the other amendments 
are flawed, in my judgment, because they are advisory. This President 
will not take advice unless forced to change course. If it doesn't 
happen now, it will happen in September or October. It will happen. We 
all know that at some point there will be a group of Republican 
Senators who will quietly go to the White House and say: Mr. President, 
unless you change direction in Iraq we will change it for you.

If that is going to happen in 2 or 3 months--and the whispers on the 
other side of the aisle indicate that is what will happen--why wait? 
Why sacrifice more life and see so many more soldiers coming home 
wounded? Why sacrifice the billions of dollars that we are spending at 
the same time our schools need so much help and our health care system 
needs so much help? Our energy policy needs redirection.

We live in a changing world. Technology has changed everything about 
our world. It has created terrorism. Terrorism is a real force. I 
disagree with those who say we can ignore the fact that terrorism is 
real. Technology has empowered small groups of bad people and given 
them the ability to strike at us in our heartland. That is brand new. 
There have always been small groups of bad people. There have even been 
large groups of bad people. But they didn't have the ability to hurt 
us.

The Japanese war machine in 1941, while America slept, could only get 
as far as Pearl Harbor, and that was a long reach. Yet the several 
thousand in al-Qaida, far less wealthy and far less strong, were able 
to strike at the World Trade Center in my city. So terrorism is real. 
Terrorism is something that we have to fight against.

The problem in the equation that the President speaks about and 
believes in, that so many on the other side of the aisle speak about 
and believe in, is that what we are doing in Iraq, it is almost 
impossible to prove has much to do with terror.

They say al-Qaida might set up camps in Iraq and use those camps as 
they use the camps in Pakistan and Afghanistan to try and hurt us. That 
may be true. But what does having our soldiers patrol the streets of 
Baghdad, or Diyala, or Ramadi or any of the other cities to prevent 
various tribes and ethnic groups from fighting one another, have to do 
with that? What does trying--futilely, in my opinion--to buttress the 
Maliki government have to do with that, when the Maliki government is 
incapable of doing elementary things, let alone containing al-Qaida?

This war in Iraq has just veered out of control, and a great leader 
would say that and change course. Without casting aspersions on what 
brought us there--although we can debate that all day long; whatever 
happened in the past happened. But the facts on the ground are real. To 
just about anyone who looks at this with an unbiased eye, what we are 
doing in Iraq has very little to do with protecting us and, in fact, a 
good argument can be made it makes things worse every day we stay. 
Certainly the argument can be made it delays the inevitable, which will 
happen, which is that the Iraqis are going to have to work out for 
themselves how they are going to live or not live together, given the 
age-old enmities.

Yet this President persists. It is not good for the Iraqi people. It 
is not good for the American people. It is not good for the country 
that he does. Our job is to require the President to change because he 
will not do it on his own.

That is why, while I have great respect for my colleague from 
Colorado and for my colleague from Virginia and


my colleague from Indiana, I don't think their resolutions are what is 
needed because the President will not change. He knows what our opinion 
is. He knows what the American people's view of this war is. He doesn't 
need a resolution to suggest to him to change course. No. He needs to 
be required to do it. He needs to be forced to do it.

That is the stark choice we face tonight. That is where we are 
tonight. If you believe that we must change course in Iraq, the only 
resolution that does that is Levin-Reed.

One other thing: This country needs to do so much. The very 
technology I talked about, which effects terrorism and creates 
terrorism, creates other challenges for America. Our schools--when the 
OEDC ranks the 21 developed countries in terms of their K-12 
education--now come out 12th, the bottom half. In math we come out 
15th. We are doing virtually nothing to improve our schools, which to 
me is the ultimate answer to preserve the American economy and American 
jobs.

Our health care system is broken. There are 45 million people 
uncovered and many more who are not covered very well. We have a system 
that doesn't do the basic preventive things that would save lives and 
save dollars.


On energy we send $1 billion a day overseas to many people we don't 
like, and we can't get hold of it and change it. Our foreign policy 
itself needs a new direction where we are able to take on terrorists 
who might hurt us in a way that develops world consensus. The rest of 
the world is learning what terrorism is like and why it is evil. We 
need to change our military to be able to do that. We need to change 
our foreign policy arrangements to do it.

All of these things and so many more--our infrastructure and our 
culture are lost because everything in this administration is focused 
on the misguided policy in Iraq.

The damage and danger of what is done hurts Iraq and it hurts 
America's reputation in the world. It also hurts us at home because we 
are spending time and energy and resources on something that just 
cannot work the way it is. What the Levin-Reed resolution recommends is 
that we withdraw the vast majority of our troops. We don't abandon Iraq 
altogether because we know al-Qaida might set up camps, and we know 
there is a need for some troops--mainly out of harm's way--to protect 
us from al-Qaida camps that might help train those who might strike at 
us. But the Levin-Reed resolution would not entail 160,000 troops in 
harm's way, because they are not needed. There might be 10,000 or 
20,000 or 30,000 troops, mostly out of harm's way, that could protect 
us from terrorism.

The view that we can train the Iraqis to take over--many of us have 
lost faith in that. We have heard promise after promise that we should 
let the Iraqis take over. They don't really want to fight this war 
because when there is very little loyalty to a central government, it 
is very hard to build an army in a divided nation.

Many of the other amendments that are before us, in my judgment, are 
wishful thinking. They believe they will get the President to see the 
light. I wish that were the case. The President seems adamant. I don't 
think he will change unless he is forced to change. I don't think he 
will change unless this body meets its responsibilities and stands up 
and requires a change.

The President in February said we should wait until the summer. In 
April he said September. Now we are hearing from some of the 
commanders: Oh, no, we will have to wait until January.

It is just not working. We pacify one area and violence erupts in 
another. If we go to that area, then the area that was pacified creates 
the violence. Temporarily dealing with that violence doesn't solve the 
fundamental facts on the ground. Therefore, we need change. I do not 
believe this is an issue of hawks or doves. I think whichever you are, 
the simple facts on the ground dictate that we should change, and only 
Levin-Reed has us do that.

I salute my colleagues, the Senator from Michigan and the Senator 
from Rhode Island, for putting together this resolution. I urge my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle in particular to join with 
us. You will be joining with us later if you don't join with us today. 
That is the simple fact of the matter. I hope the Levin-Reed amendment 
is given its due. I hope it will pass for the sake of Iraq, the sake of 
our soldiers, the sake of America.

With that, Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senator 
Bunning be allowed to speak until 8:35 and that the majority leader be 
recognized immediately thereafter.