# TRIBUTE TO LOUISIANA WWII VETERANS
## `0b4317d26efbfa07579c1426ed21f937`
`Ms. LANDRIEU — 9 April 2008`

---

 Ms. LANDRIEU. Madam President, I am proud to honor a group of 
92 World War II veterans from the Acadiana region of Louisiana who are 
traveling to Washington, DC, this weekend to visit the various 
memorials and monuments that recognize the sacrifices of our nation's 
invaluable service members.

Louisiana HonorAir, a group based in Lafayette, LA, is sponsoring 
this Saturday's trip to the Nation's Capital. The organization is 
honoring each surviving World War II Louisiana veteran by giving them 
an opportunity to see the memorials dedicated to their service. On this 
trip, the veterans will visit the World War II, Korea, Vietnam, and Iwo 
Jima memorials. They will also travel to Arlington National Cemetery to 
lay a wreath on the Tomb of the Unknowns.

This is the sixth flight Louisiana HonorAir has made to Washington, 
DC, and there will be three additional flights this spring.

World War II was one of America's greatest triumphs, but was also a 
deadly conflict. More than 60 million people worldwide were killed, 
including 40 million civilians, and more than 400,000 American 
servicemembers were slain during the long war. The ultimate victory 
over enemies in the Pacific and in Europe is a testament to the valor 
of American soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines. The years 1941 to 45 
also witnessed an unprecedented mobilization of domestic industry, 
which supplied our military on two distant fronts.

In Louisiana, there remain today more than 40,000 living WWII 
veterans, and each one has a heroic tale of achieving the noble victory 
of freedom over tyranny. Veterans in this HonorAir group began their 
service in 1940 before the bombing of Pearl Harbor, and served as late 
as 1950 in the European and Pacific theaters as well as stateside. They 
served in various branches of the military--25 members in the Army, 24 
in the Army Air Corps, 37 in the Navy, three in the Navy Air Corps, one 
in the Navy Reserve, two in the Marines, and one in the Merchant 
Marines. Several served during World War II and the Korean War, and one 
of our veterans spent 30 years in active service in the Army, serving 
through the Vietnam war.

One of our heroes served as a Control Tower Operator with the 104th 
AACS Squadron. Another was aboard the USS Proteus, alongside the USS 
Missouri, during the Japanese surrender on September 2, 1945. And yet 
another hero went on 35 bombing missions over Europe between 1942 and 
1945. Some participated in the Battle of the Bulge and the D-Day 
Invasion of France at Utah Beach. Many fought in the South Pacific. 
Some served in the China-Burma-India Theater, and others in Africa.

Also traveling to Washington on Saturday's trip is an active member 
of the service. Army MAJ Robert Gutierrez of Lafayette finished a tour 
of duty in Iraq in February. I ask the Senate to recognize him for his 
commitment to our country.

I also ask the Senate to join me in honoring these 89 men and three


women, all Louisiana heroes, that we welcome to Washington this weekend 
and Louisiana HonorAir for making these trips a reality.
