---
---

# DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL REPEAL ACT OF 2010
## `0b4ef87b2e8beed80ef114a1b9a0f0e3`
`Mr. PLATTS — 18 December 2010`

---


Mr. PLATTS. Mr. Speaker, on March 2, 2010, Secretary of Defense 
Robert Gates announced that the U.S. Department of Defense, DOD, would 
conduct a thorough review of the ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' policy 
prohibiting openly gay men and women from serving in the military. The 
review was to examine the impact that repeal of the ''Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell'' policy would have on military readiness and effectiveness, unit 
cohesion, recruiting, retention, and family readiness.

The review solicited feedback from more than 500,000 active duty and 
reserve component Service members and spouses, with more than 200,000 
responses ultimately being received. The Working Group that conducted


the review was composed of 49 military personnel, officer and enlisted, 
and 19 civilian personnel from across the Department of Defense and the 
Military Services. The Group was Co-Chaired by General Carter F. Ham, 
U.S. Army, and the Honorable Jeb C. Johnson, Department of Defense 
General Counsel.

In May of this year, while DOD's review was still underway, the U.S. 
House of Representatives voted on an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2011 
National Defense Authorization Act that would have effectively repealed 
the ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' policy. I voted against this amendment 
because I felt it was disrespectful to the men and women in uniform and 
their families for Congress to vote on a repeal of this policy without 
first considering their vital input.

The Department of Defense's nine-month review of the impact of 
repealing the ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' policy was completed last 
month. The review's findings include an understandably broad range of 
opinions about the likely impact of said repeal. Ultimately, however, 
the review concludes that repeal of the ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' 
policy can be implemented in a manner that minimizes the risks 
associated with military readiness and effectiveness, unit cohesion, 
recruiting, retention, and family readiness. I agree.

It is important to note that House of Representatives Bill 2965, H.R. 
2965, does not repeal the ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' policy immediately. 
Rather, repeal is made contingent upon the President, the Secretary of 
Defense, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff certifying to 
Congress that the Department of Defense has prepared the necessary 
policies and regulations to implement the repeal in a manner that is 
''consistent with the standards of military readiness, military 
effectiveness, unit cohesion, and recruiting and retention of the Armed 
Forces.'' Such a deliberate and orderly implementation of the repeal 
will be critical to its success and is consistent with the 
recommendations of the Department of Defense review.

In addition to my consideration of the Department of Defense's 
review, I received and thoughtfully considered the input of many 
currently serving military personnel and veterans in the 19th District, 
as well as numerous other 19th District residents. Similar to the 
findings of the DOD review, the input I received from my constituents 
included passionate appeals for and against repeal of the ''Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell'' policy.

Throughout my tenure in Congress, I have had the privilege to 
interact with thousands of our nation's armed service members--here at 
home and overseas in Iraq, Afghanistan, Bosnia, and elsewhere. Each of 
these interactions has been truly inspiring and humbling. Our men and 
women in uniform, along with their loved ones, are the true heroes of 
our nation. But for their selfless service, the freedoms that all of us 
fellow Americans enjoy everyday would not be. Given that these proud 
Americans have answered the call to serve and stand ready to make the 
ultimate sacrifice on behalf of their fellow citizens, each and every 
one of them has earned my highest respect and heartfelt gratitude.

In light of the tremendous number of troops that I have interacted 
with over the last 10 years, it is safe to say that I have visited and 
thanked a significant number of gay or lesbian soldiers, marines, 
airmen, sailors, and coast guardsmen for their courageous and dedicated 
service in defense of all that is good about our great country. In 
light of the findings of the Department of Defense review, to oppose a 
repeal of the ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' policy would contradict the 
respect and gratitude that I feel for all who serve--regardless of 
their sexual orientation. As such, I support an orderly repeal of the 
policy along the lines contemplated in the DOD report and contained in 
H.R. 2965.

In conclusion, I share the sentiments expressed by the co-chairs of 
the Department of Defense review, General Ham and Mr. Johnson, when 
they stated: ''We are both convinced that our military can do this, 
even during this time of war. We do not underestimate the challenges in 
implementing a change in the law, but neither should we underestimate 
the ability of our extraordinarily dedicated Service men and women to 
adapt to such change and continue to provide our Nation with the 
military capability to accomplish any mission.''
