---
---

# IRAN
## `0b531332f6b2c1cd9b86d684b15e5b0a`
`Ms. WATERS — 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. WATERS. Thank you very much, I am so pleased and proud to have 
been joined by my colleagues here this evening to sound the alarm. Let 
me say that again, we are sounding the alarm. We are opening up the 
debate. We are raising the questions. We are challenging this 
administration on the issue of war with Iran.

We are saying, Mr. President, we have watched, we have listened, and 
we have learned. We are smarter people when we hear talk about war, 
when we hear accusations being made. When we hear a march to war we now 
recognize it for what it is. It is a given that we have this knowledge 
that we have acquired since we have been here since the start of the 
war with Iraq. We do not intend to sit idly by without opening up the 
discussion, without making the challenge, without raising the 
questions.

As I said, prior to the opening lines of the presentation that was 
just given by Congresswoman Barbara Lee, there were signs of war that 
have been identified, not only by some of the experts that we have been 
talking to, but by those who have been writing and watching what has 
been going on.

As I mentioned before, there is talk, and there are news articles.

U.S. News & World Report, published on March 11, title, ''6 Signs the 
U.S. May Be Headed for War in Iran.'' Let me repeat that, U.S. News & 
World Report published on March 11 titled ''6 Signs the U.S. May Be 
Headed for War in Iran.''

Warships off of Lebanon, with the Army fully engaged in Iraq, much 
the contingency planning for possible military action has fallen to the 
Navy, which has looked at the use of carrier-based war planes and sea 
launch missiles as the weapons to destroy Iran's air defenses and 
nuclear infrastructure.

''Two U.S. warships took up positions off Lebanon earlier this month, 
replacing the USS Cole. The deployment was said to signal U.S. concern 
over the political stalemate in Lebanon and the influence of Syria in 
that country. But the United States also would want its warships in the 
eastern Mediterranean in the event of military action against Iran to 
keep Iranian ally Syria in check and to help provide air cover to 
Israel against Iranian missile reprisals. One of the newly deployed 
ships, the USS Ross, is an Aegis guided missile destroyer, a top system 
missile defense against air attacks.''

This article goes on to talk about ''Vice President Cheney's peace 
trip: Cheney, who is seen as a leading hawk on Iran, is going on what 
is described as a Mid East trip to try to give a boost to stalled 
Israeli-Palestinian peace talks. But he has also scheduled two other 
stops: One, Oman, is a key military and ally and logistics hub for 
military operations in the Persian Gulf. It also faces Iran across the 
narrow, vital Strait of Hormuz, the vulnerable oil transit choke point 
into and out of the Persian Gulf that Iran has threatened to blockade 
in the event of war. Cheney is also going to Saudi Arabia, whose 
support would be sought before any military action given its ability to 
increase oil supplies, if Iran's oil is cut off. Back in March, 2002, 
Cheney made a high-profile Mid East trip to Saudi Arabia and other 
nations that officials said at the time was about diplomacy to Iraq and 
not war, which began a year later.''

Vice President Cheney has been on that trip, as we pretty well know, 
based on the advanced intelligence revealed by this very, very well-
placed article.

They go on to talk about the Israeli air strike on Syria.



Israel's air strike deep in Syria last October was reported to have 
targeted a nuclear-related facility, but details have remained sketchy, 
and some experts have been skeptical that Syria had a covert nuclear 
program.

An alternative scenario floating in Israel and Lebanon is that the 
real purpose of the strike was to force Syria to switch on the targeted 
electronics for newly received Russian anti-aircraft defenses. The 
location of the strike is seen as on a likely flight path to Iran. That 
is also crossing the friendly Kurdish-controlled northern Iraq. Knowing 
the electronic signatures of the defensive systems is necessary to 
reduce the risk for warplanes heading to targets in Iran.

They go on to give the other identification markers that should be 
watched and should be vetted.

Israeli comments. Israeli President Shimon Peres said earlier this 
month that Israel will not consider unilateral action to stop Iran from 
getting a nuclear bomb. In the past, though, Israeli officials have 
quite consistently said that they are prepared to act alone if that 
becomes necessary to ensure that Iran does not cross a nuclear weapons 
threshold. Was Peres speaking for himself, or has President Bush given 
the Israelis an assurance that they won't have to act alone?

Israel's war with Hezbollah. While this seems a bit old, Israel's 
July 2006 war in Lebanon against Iranian-backed Hezbollah forces was 
seen at the time as a step that Israel would want to take if it 
anticipated a clash with Iran. The radical Shiite group is seen not 
only as a threat on its own, but also as a possible Iranian surrogate 
force in the event of war with Iran. So it was important for Israel to 
push Hezbollah forces back from their positions on Lebanon's border 
with Israel and to do enough damage to Hezbollah's Iranian-supplied 
arsenals to reduce its capabilities. Since then, Hezbollah has been 
able to rearm through a United Nations force that polices a border 
buffer zone in southern Lebanon.

So as you can see, there is quite a bit of reason to be concerned 
about the administration's saber-rattling towards Iran. There is no way 
to prove their intentions, and I hope we are wrong, but we really can't 
afford to be wrong.

Another encounter like in January between the U.S. Navy and an 
Iranian speedboat could be used as an excuse for retaliation similar to 
the Gulf of Tonkin incident that began the Vietnam War. The White House 
would simply claim that we were ''provoked'' and were defending 
ourselves.

I would like to stop at this time and yield time to the gentlelady 
from Houston, Texas, who has been consistent in her work with the Out-
of-Iraq Caucus in an attempt to bring our soldiers home. It is with 
great pleasure that I yield to Congresswoman Jackson-Lee.