# BRAC
## `0b5d9a67905f3083011ce160f6254bd5`
`Mr. ROBERTS — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROBERTS. Let me go on with a little background about this because 
I want the Senator to understand how


serious the situation is in Kansas. Should this $3.1 billion deficit be 
allowed to move forward and become law, soldiers in Kansas and many 
other States will suffer greatly. As I said before, $375 billion--I 
have been saying $365 billion. I am $10 billion short--$375 million 
worth of Kansas BRAC-related projects will be put at risk, and there 
are even more projects at risk in future years if the operational tempo 
of the Army is disrupted.

I wish to be sure all of our colleagues understand exactly what this 
shortfall could mean--as it would be in Texas or Oklahoma or any 
State--what this would mean to our men and women in uniform and their 
families based in our respective States.

The Combat Aviation Brigade, which is coming to Fort Riley, KS, as a 
result of the BRAC process, is in danger of losing $152 million for a 
complex that will house their barracks, their office space, their 
hangars, their fueling aprons, and their crash rescue fire station.

This unit, this aviation brigade, is going to deploy to Iraq soon, 
and they need these facilities when they return. The commanding general 
at Fort Riley, General Carter Hamm, told me yesterday that if the 
aviation brigade comes home in 2008 to find these projects incomplete, 
they will have to live in dated facilities.

What do I mean by dated facilities? We call them the white elephant 
barracks. They have holes in the walls. There are even rumors they have 
snakes underneath these barracks.

The general said they will have to live in dated facilities that will 
provide worse living conditions than the brigade will find in Iraq.

Let me repeat that statement to the Senator from Texas. I don't know 
if she has a dire situation like this. I will ask her to respond, for 
our colleagues.

If this construction fails to move forward, members of the air 
brigade will return to housing at Fort Riley that will be below 
anything they have experienced in Iraq. Is this the way the Senate 
wants to treat these soldiers? Does the Senator from Texas have a 
similar situation, where men and women in uniform coming back will find 
their housing less than what it was in Iraq? I am incredulous.