---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3222, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `0b8d0677e4611c794a27307e1749d08b`
`Mr. CLYBURN — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. CLYBURN. Let me thank Congresswoman Slaughter for yielding me 
this time.

Mr. Speaker, I wanted to come to the floor today to speak about an 
issue that seems to have occupied the time of some of my colleagues 
this morning and that led to a particular story in one of the 
publications here on the Hill this morning.

It has a headline that is about one of the earmarks in this bill, and 
let me point to it. It very clearly states, I think it's on page 78, 
that a $3 million request is being made for the First Tee program. It's 
found on page 78.

Now, in accordance with the rules of the House, this request was made 
by me and my name is attached to it because I'm very, very proud of it.

What I'm not proud of, however, is the headline that has been 
published this morning saying that a ''South Carolina Golf Center Nabs 
a $3 Million Earmark.'' That is utterly untrue.

This $3 million request is so that we can put on military bases the 
program called First Tee. This program will be there for the children 
of the men and women, many of whom find themselves in harm's way, so 
their children that they leave back here on military bases all over 
this country, some on military bases in foreign countries, their 
children will have the opportunity to participate in a nationwide 
character-building program which happens to use as one of its core 
components the game of golf, a game that has been made very, very 
popular by a young man of color, who has made this a sport that young, 
low-income children and children of color have finally become enamored 
of.

I just want to make sure that these children who live on these 
military bases will have the same access to this program that they have 
to softball, to swimming pools, to basketball that we fund in the 
appropriations bills every year. We put these programs on these 
military installations, and we say, softball, swimming, basketball, 
reserved for you all.

So I just want to say that I cannot prevent headline writers. I used 
to be in this business. I was in the newspaper business, and I know why 
we write headlines.

Not one dime of this request will go to any civilian facility in 
South Carolina or anywhere else in the United States of America. Every 
single dime of this is to be spent on defense facilities to the benefit 
of those children whose mothers and fathers are off defending our way 
of life, so that their children can have the same kind of opportunities 
that our children have.

And I find it a little bit insulting that we say we are going to 
reserve this kind of activity for the elite and not make it available 
to the children of the men and women who are preserving our way of 
life.

There's something about this. We know who is fighting this war. 
Rural, low-income families are carrying the burden of this war, and I 
think we've got a responsibility here to say to their children, we're 
going to treat you the same way we treat the kids downtown. And the 
kids in downtown, in Sumter, in my hometown, if they can have a First 
Tee program, I want those kids at Shaw Air Force Base 10 miles away to 
have that same kind of program. I want those kids at Charleston Air 
Force Base, while their families are off, that's where they're all 
leaving from, that base, to go off to fight in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
They're leaving their children there. I want their children to have the 
same opportunities on that base as kids have downtown Charleston.

And for us to single this out and write a headline like this, not one 
dime goes to this center, and they know it.