# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `0b8f6db858645a4ba015d831c0a11fdc`
`Mr. LEVIN — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I agree with much of the Feingold 
amendment, particularly as it relates to the desire to transition the 
mission of U.S. forces in Iraq and to commence the reduction of U.S. 
forces from Iraq. Indeed, I have long sought those actions in an 
attempt to put the Iraqi security forces in the lead and to bring 
pressure on the Iraqi Government to make the political compromises 
necessary for reconciliation among the three main Iraqi groups.

My concerns with the Feingold amendment are principally two. First of 
all, the mission to which U.S. forces would be limited after June 30, 
2008, are too narrowly drawn and would not, in my view, allow our 
forces to carry out the missions that would be required. For example, I 
don't believe we should limit the duration and scope of targeted 
operations against al-Qaida as the amendment provides. I also don't 
believe we should preclude our forces from being embedded with Iraqi 
forces. I also believe the continuing mission of U.S. forces should 
include providing logistic support to the Iraqi security forces, which 
is prohibited by the Feingold amendment. In that regard, I would note 
that the Independent Commission on the Security Forces of Iraq that was 
led by retired Marine general Jim Jones specifically pointed out the 
logistic shortfalls of the Iraqi security forces and that they would 
need to rely on Coalition support for this function.

My second chief concern is that restricting appropriations for our 
military sends the wrong message to our troops who are performing so 
heroically on the battlefield in Iraq. It would also pose 
extraordinarily difficult decisions for our field commanders. They 
could be faced, for instance, with determining whether a member of the 
Iraqi security forces has ever been involved in sectarian violence or 
in attacks against U.S. forces, because if they were they could not be 
trained by our forces under the terms of the amendment. Indeed, an 
incorrect determination could subject the commander to violations of 
our antideficiency laws which prohibit the expenditures of appropriated 
funds except to specified purposes.

It is concerns such as these which lead me to vote ''no'' on the 
Feingold amendment.

I yield the floor.