---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `0ba17214bd1c0736185759ca7a7fa94e`
`Mr. DONNELLY — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. We, in my hometown of South Bend, just this past 
weekend, last Saturday, sent off 175 young men and women who will be 
going over to serve in Iraq, and again, a number of them on their 
second tour of duty. The best, the bravest, the finest you could ever 
see. I want to make sure that they have the finest body armor that they 
could possibly have; the best vehicle protection that they could have; 
the best equipment; the best training. All of that costs funds. We want 
to make sure those funds are there, and we will.

But think, Mr. Ross, of $300 billion just to pay down a debt that 
never should have been run up in the first


place. Those Guardsmen, as they were leaving, I was telling them all 
good luck, Godspeed. And they said, sir, it's our privilege to serve 
this country. It is a right that we look at and cherish, and it is a 
great honor for us to have this opportunity. Well, our obligation is to 
make sure they have everything they need. As you said, there is a 
hearing tomorrow on body armor.

I have been fortunate enough over the last few months to have gone to 
Walter Reed Army Hospital on a number of occasions. I went through 
Building 18. I saw the holes in the ceiling; I saw the mold on the 
wall; I saw the wallpaper peeled off and hanging down. I saw plastic 
buckets along the floor because the roof was leaking in a United States 
medical facility, an outpatient housing center. And living in there 
were our brave Iraq and Afghanistan veterans who had been wounded and 
come back, and what they received when they came back was a room with a 
leaking roof, with mold. This facility is being closed in 2011, but 
part of the concern is do we have enough funds to cover everything? And 
here we are sending $300 billion a year to the Chinese, to the 
Japanese, to the Mexicans because they are holding our paper.

Our obligation is to clean up this mess. That is what we are trying 
to do with PAYGO and similar systems that the Blue Dogs have sponsored 
and have brought to the floor of this House. So, I am proud to be an 
Indiana Blue Dog, along with my fellow Hoosier Blue Dog, Brad Ellsworth 
of Evansville, Baron Hill of the Ninth District, along with my 40 other 
colleagues. And I know we are hoping next week to add approximately 
five more. We will continue to try to bring common-sense, moderate 
policies, not partisan fights, to this country so we can restore sanity 
back to the operations of this country again.

I yield to my good friend, Mr. Ross.