# TRIBUTE TO FORT GEORGE G. MEADE AND THEIR SECOND PLACE FINISH IN THE  ARMY COMMUNITIES OF EXCELLENCE COMPETITION
## `0ba6b72370d614f2394bec571a463cce`
`Mr. SARBANES — 4 May 2007`

---


Mr. SARBANES. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the men and 
women who serve at Fort George G. Meade for their second place finish 
in the Army Communities of Excellence competition. The Communities of 
Excellence award program recognizes top installations from all over the 
world that demonstrate organizational maturity and outstanding 
capabilities. Brigadier General John Macdonald, Deputy Commanding 
General of the Installation Management Command, called the winning 
installations the ''flagships of performance excellence for the Army.''

I have the pleasure of representing Maryland's Third Congressional 
District in the House of Representatives, which neighbors Fort Meade 
and includes many of the surrounding communities. I am therefore 
acutely aware of the exciting and difficult work that is done at Fort 
Meade.

Colonel Ken McCreedy, garrison commander at Fort Meade, is a 
tremendous leader. He is charged with management of one of the Army's 
most important installations and has taken command at a time of great 
upheaval due to the impact of the 2005 BRAC. Despite these tremendous 
demands on his time, Colonel McCreedy has also involved himself in the 
community off post. He certainly deserves this recognition and I 
congratulate him on his fine work.

The men and women who serve with Colonel McCreedy at Fort Meade are 
exceptional individuals. For 90 years, they have worked to keep our 
Nation safe. Most people know that the National Security Agency, our 
military's foremost intelligence agency, is located at Fort Meade but 
there are many other organizations inside and outside of the 
intelligence community that contribute to our national security. One 
example is the Fort Meade Freedom Center, where they are housing 
soldiers injured in Iraq and Afghanistan. They stepped up to assist 
Walter Reed in housing these soldiers and provide shuttle service so 
they may receive their medical treatments.

Madam Speaker, I've been fortunate to visit Fort Meade twice in my 
first few months in Congress. The more I learn about this facility, the 
more I am impressed. They truly deserve this honor and I congratulate 
the entire Fort Meade community on their achievement.
