---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `0bb9fe1963719b9ef38fe00100688a42`
`Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, the authors of this 
resolution say that we should provide our troops with all the resources 
they need, whether it be armor, bullets and Humvees. That is, all the 
resources they need, except two; and I would argue they are the two 
most critically important ones: manpower and the support of our 
national leaders.

This Democratic resolution can be summed up in three simple words, to 
''stay the course.'' The irony here is inescapable. Just months ago the 
very same supporters of this resolution derided the Pentagon and the 
White House for proposing to stay the course, but today they bring 
exactly that same strategy to life in their resolution.

This resolution doesn't propose a new course of action. It doesn't 
have the courage of its author's rhetoric, convictions, to change the 
course of the war. It simply states that this Congress will not support 
the new approach proposed by our new commander and the Iraq Study 
Group.

General Petraeus, the chief architect of this new plan, was confirmed 
unanimously by the Senate, and yet many in that body and this body are 
adamantly opposed to this very strategy he now seeks to implement. So 
it begs the question: If the general is the right man for the job, then 
why is his plan now not appropriate?

They claim to support the troops but seek to undercut their new 
leader's strategy. How can we support the troops when we insist that 
their orders are faulty? We cannot praise the general out of one side 
of our mouth while mocking him out of the other.

We have heard it said that this resolution calls for a new direction 
in Iraq. But I defy those who say this, to say what that new direction 
is. It is certainly not apparent in this resolution. This resolution is 
only an empty opposition to the Commander in Chief's plan to deploy the 
Armed Forces as the generals on the field see fit.

This two-sentence resolution, sense of Congress, is not a new plan 
for victory. In fact, it is not even a new plan for bringing the troops 
home now, but to leave them in the field with under-manpower. It is 
little more than a gift to our enemies who have been patiently awaiting 
the American naysayers to erode the American confidence in our mission.

Our enemies do not lack morale, and we fuel their exuberance with 
this drive for success every time they hear us speculate on withdrawal. 
Our enemies are fighting us, against us and our servicemen and our 
allies, with the belief that each headline brings them closer to 
victory.

Our brave men and women in uniform are up to the task. But they need 
our support, not empty proposals that doubt their ability to secure the 
peace.

Millions of peaceful Iraqis are struggling to rebuild their Nation 
after the cruel reign of Saddam. They want an opportunity to build a 
better future for their children, and they ask for our help to secure 
that peace.

Will we now stand aside while al Qaeda and Iran support factions that 
would enslave them once again? You know, it was Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt who knew the repercussions of failing to support those 
nations that are struggling for liberty, when he said, and I quote: 
''Enduring peace cannot be bought at the cost of other people's 
freedom.''

FDR also declared that we are committed to full support of all those 
resolute people everywhere who are resisting aggression and are thereby 
keeping war away from our hemisphere. We cannot have peace in Iraq by 
handing over those who have worked to build a Nation based on freedom 
and justice and peace, turn it over to those violent brethren who seek 
only destruction of those principles. Make no mistake about it: If we 
stay the course, as this resolution would have us do, it will not be 
long before this war returns to our shores

I would like to end with the words of two individuals. The paths they 
have traveled to now and the paths they desire to take in the future 
could not be any more different. But, they are equally strong in the 
passion they bring to their beliefs. And, their words should be 
instructive to us in this debate.

First are the words of Abu Omar al-Baghdadi, the leader of al-Qaeda 
in Iraq. He says: ''We have drunk blood in the past, and we find no 
blood sweeter than that of the Christians. Know that offense is the 
best form of defense, and be careful not to lay down your weapons 
before the war is over.'' While we quibble over words here on the floor 
of the House of Representatives, our enemies speak


with frightening clarity of conviction. Can there be any doubt that 
this resolution solidifies the resolve of the jihadists he leads and 
inspires?

In stark contrast are the words of one of my constituents, Ron 
Griffin, who 45 months ago lost his son, Kyle, an Airborne Infantryman 
serving in Iraq. ''We never felt lost or alone for we were literally 
carried through our sorrow by the resolute, soothing and comforting 
hands of countless human beings whom I only hope can truly understand 
how they made life worth living. . . . What I see [now] is a people 
pummeled into acquiescence. The loss of these wondrous warriors is of 
itself a weight that is almost unbearable to struggle under, but when 
accompanied by the din of negativity it becomes to most people a 
burden.''

Can there be any doubt that this resolution does nothing more than 
add to the din of negativity of which Mr. Griffin speaks?

I have faith that we can stand strong. I oppose this empty resolution 
to stay the course. I stand up for an America that is just and free and 
a friend to those who seek liberty and peace.

