# None
## `0bba131bc4a628950ced90aec62ba2e1`
`Mr. PALLONE â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. PALLONE. Well, I just want to follow up on what you said. You 
know, this money that we give to States to help cover these kids in the 
last few years has run out very early for a lot of States. And, again, 
it was the gentleman from Georgia's own State, it


was State representatives, Secretary of Health and Human Services, 
whatever they call that person in the State, came down here in 
February. And they were over in the Speaker's office, and I was asked 
to come. And there were Republicans and Democratic Congressmen in that 
room. Now, I can't say for sure that the gentleman who spoke tonight 
was there, but there were other Republicans. He may have been, but I 
don't want to say for sure because I don't remember. But there 
definitely were Republican Congressmen from the State of Georgia in 
that room over in the Speaker's office, along with Democrats. And they 
said, you've got to pass an emergency supplemental bill to give us more 
money for SCHIP because we're going to run out of our yearly allotment 
on March 1; two months into the year. So they said, please, do 
something. Well, what we did is we attached that to the 
emergency supplemental bill. Some people know that as the Iraq 
supplemental, but it really covered a lot of different things.


And as you say, we put $750 million just to cover Georgia and other 
States to the end of this year. And you know how difficult it was. The 
President threatened to veto it three or four times. We finally got it 
passed. And every month I would get calls or letters from the Georgia 
delegation saying, when are you going to pass this money because we're 
going to have to tell these kids that they don't have any health 
insurance.

So I don't understand how they come down here on the Republican side 
and complain about this program that they helped start, that their 
State is asking for money. Most of the people in that room from the 
State of Georgia were Republican, not Democrats, okay. And we're just 
practically saying, okay, look, we don't want to have to run out of 
this money every year because obviously this program is growing because 
the number of uninsured kids, again, from working families, keeps 
getting bigger every year. It's up to something like nine million 
children nationally that don't have any health insurance. Okay. And 
what we're saying is, let's come up with a larger pot of money over the 
next 5 years to pay for these kids so that, there is about six million 
of those nine million that are eligible for the children's health SCHIP 
program right now, eligible under the current law. There is about 6.7 
that are covered, there are another 6 million that are eligible under 
the current law that President Bush and the Republicans have been 
supporting for the last 10 years, and there just isn't enough money to 
cover them.

So all we're saying is, let's take some money, in this case over 5 
years it would cost about maybe $50 billion to cover these kids that 
are already eligible for this SCHIP program.

Now, how in the world the Democratic initiative to simply pay for 
kids that are already eligible for this program that's already on the 
books becomes socialism or entitlements or some kind of radical 
procedure here. For the life of me, I simply do not understand. I mean, 
there is nothing here that's new. There is nothing new here.

I yield back to the gentleman.