# None
## `0bc2f19fcd9425dafd805ab32f1dfcd0`
`Mr. JONES â€” 23 June 2009`

---


Mr. JONES. Madam Speaker, thank you very much. Tonight, I want to 
take my time and refer to an article written by Andrew Bacevich. This 
was in the American Conservative of May 18, 2009. The title is ''To Die 
for a Mystique,'' subtitled ''The lessons our leaders didn't learn from 
the Vietnam War. I'm going to read two or three paragraphs and then 
close from this article.

''In one of the most thoughtful Vietnam-era accounts written by a 
senior military officer, General Bruce Palmer once observed, 'With 
respect to Vietnam, our leaders should have known that the American 
people would not stand still for a protracted war of an indeterminate 
nature with no foreseeable end to the United States' commitment.''

He further stated in the article, ''General Palmer thereby distilled 
into a single sentence the central lesson of Vietnam: to embark upon an 
open-ended war lacking clearly defined and achievable objectives was to 
forfeit public support, thereby courting disaster. The implications 
were clear: never again.''

I further read from the article, ''The dirty little secret to which 
few in Washington will own up is that the United States now faces the 
prospect of perpetual conflict. We find ourselves in the midst of what 
the Pentagon calls the 'Long War,' a conflict global in scope (if 
largely concentrated in the Greater Middle East) and expected to 
outlast even General Palmer's 'Twenty-Five Year War.' The present 
generation of senior civilians and officers have either forgotten or 
inverted the lessons of Vietnam, embracing open-ended war as an 
inescapable reality.''

Madam Speaker, I submit this entire article for the Record.







 [From The American Conservative, May 18, 2009]













 To Die for a Mystique













(By Andrew J. Bacevich)




 In one of the most thoughtful Vietnam-era accounts written 


 by a senior military officer, Gen. Bruce Palmer once 


 observed, ''With respect to Vietnam, our leaders should have 


 known that the American people would not stand still for a 


 protracted war of an indeterminate nature with no foreseeable 


 end to the U.S. commitment.''



 General Palmer thereby distilled into a single sentence the 


 central lesson of Vietnam: to embark upon an open-ended war 


 lacking clearly defined and achievable objectives was to 


 forfeit public support, thereby courting disaster. The 


 implications were clear: never again.



 Palmer's book, which he titled ''The Twenty-Five Year 


 War'', appeared in 1984. Today, exactly 25 years later, we 


 once again find ourselves mired in a ''protracted war of an 


 indeterminate nature with no foreseeable end to the U.S. 


 commitment.'' It's deja vu all over again. How to explain 


 this astonishing turn of events?



 In the wake of Vietnam, the officer corps set out to 


 preclude any recurrence of protracted, indeterminate 


 conflict. The Armed Forces developed a new American way of 


 war, emphasizing advanced technology and superior skills. The 


 generals were by no means keen to put these new methods to 


 the test: their preference was for wars to be fought 


 infrequently and then only in pursuit of genuinely vital 


 interests. Yet when war did come, they intended to dispatch 


 any adversary promptly and economically, thereby protecting 


 the military from the possibility of public abandonment. 


 Finish the job quickly and go home: this defined the new 


 paradigm to which the lessons of Vietnam had given rise.



 In 1991, Operation Desert Storm seemingly validated that 


 paradigm. Yet events since 9/11, in both Iraq and 


 Afghanistan, have now demolished it. Once again, as in 


 Vietnam, the enemy calls the tune, obliging American soldiers 


 to fight on his terms. Decision has become elusive. Costs 


 skyrocket and are ignored. The fighting drags on. As it does 


 so, the overall purpose of the undertaking--other than of 


 avoiding the humiliation of abject failure--becomes 


 increasingly difficult to discern.



 The dirty little secret to which few in Washington will own 


 up is that the United States now faces the prospect of 


 perpetual conflict. We find ourselves in the midst of what 


 the Pentagon calls the ''Long War,'' a conflict global in 


 scope (if largely concentrated in the Greater Middle East) 


 and expected to outlast even General Palmer's ''Twenty-Five 


 Year War.'' The present generation of senior civilians and 


 officers have either forgotten or inverted the lessons of 


 Vietnam, embracing open-ended war as an inescapable reality.



 To apply to the Long War the plaintive query that Gen. 


 David Petraeus once posed with regard to Iraq--''Tell me how 


 this ends''--the answer is clear: no one has the foggiest 


 idea. War has become like the changing phases of the moon. 


 It's part of everyday existence. For American soldiers there 


 is no end in sight.



 Yet there is one notable difference between today and the 


 last time the United States found itself mired in a seemingly 


 endless war. During the Vietnam era, even as some young 


 Americans headed off to Indochina to fight in the jungles and 


 rice paddies, many other young Americans back on the home 


 front fought against the war itself. More than any other 


 event of the 1960s, the war created a climate of intense 


 political engagement. Today, in contrast, the civilian 


 contemporaries of those fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan have 


 largely tuned out the Long War. The predominant mood of the 


 country is not one of anger or anxiety but of dull 


 acceptance. Vietnam divided Americans; the Long War has 


 rendered them inert.



 To cite General Palmer's formulation, the citizens of this 


 country at present do appear willing to ''stand still'' when 


 considering the prospect of war that goes on and on. While 


 there are many explanations for why Americans have disengaged 


 from the Long War, the most important, in my view, is that so 


 few of us have any immediate personal stake in that conflict.



 When the citizen-soldier tradition collapsed under the 


 weight of Vietnam, the military rebuilt itself as a 


 professional force. The creation of this all-volunteer 


 military was widely hailed as a great success--well-trained 


 and highly motivated soldiers made the new American way of 


 war work. Only now are we beginning to glimpse the 


 shortcomings of this arrangement, chief among them the 


 fact that today's ''standing army'' exists at considerable 


 remove from the society it purports to defend. Americans 


 today profess to ''support the troops'' but that support 


 is a mile wide and an inch deep. It rarely translates into 


 serious or sustained public concern about whether those 


 same troops are being used wisely and well.



 The upshot is that with the eighth anniversary of the Long 


 War upon us, fundamental questions about this enterprise 


 remain unasked. The contrast with Vietnam is striking: back 


 then the core questions may not have gotten straight answers, 


 but at least they got posed.



 When testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations 


 Committee in April 1971, the young John Kerry famously--or 


 infamously, in the eyes of some--asked, ''How do you ask a 


 man to be the last man to die for a mistake?''



 What exactly was that mistake? Well, there were many. Yet 


 the most fundamental lay in President Johnson's erroneous 


 conviction that the Republic of Vietnam constituted a vital 


 American security interest and that ensuring that country's 


 survival required direct and massive U.S. military 


 intervention.



 Johnson erred in his estimation of South Vietnam's 


 importance. He compounded that error with a tragic failure of 


 imagination, persuading himself that once in, there was no 


 way out. The United States needed to stay the course in 


 Vietnam, regardless of the cost or consequences.



 Now we are, in our own day and in our own way, repeating 


 LBJ's errors. In his 1971 Senate testimony, reflecting the 


 views of other Vietnam veterans who had turned against the 


 war in which they had fought, Kerry derisively remarked, ''we 


 are probably angriest




 about all that we were told about Vietnam and about the 


 mystical war against communism.''



 The larger struggle against communism commonly referred to 


 as the Cold War was both just and necessary. Yet the furies 


 evoked by irresponsible (or cowardly) politicians more 


 interested in partisan advantage than in advancing the common 


 good transformed the Cold War from an enterprise governed by 


 reason into one driven by fear. Beginning with McCarthyism 


 and the post-1945 Red Scare and continuing on through 


 phantasms such as the domino theory, bomber gap, missile gap, 


 and the putative threat to our survival posed by a two-bit 


 Cuban revolutionary, panic induced policies that were 


 reckless, wrong-headed, and unnecessary, with Vietnam being 


 just one particularly egregious example.



 The mystical war against communism finds its counterpart in 


 the mystical war on terrorism. As in the 1960s, so too today: 


 mystification breeds misunderstanding and misjudgment. It 


 prevents us from seeing things as they are.



 As a direct result, it leads us to exaggerate the 


 importance of places like Afghanistan and indeed to 


 exaggerate the jihadist threat, which falls well short of 


 being existential. It induces flights of fancy so that 


 otherwise sensible people conjure up visions of providing 


 clean water, functioning schools, and good governance to 


 Afghanistan's 40,000 villages, with expectations of thereby 


 winning Afghan hearts and minds. It causes people to ignore 


 considerations of cost. With the Long War already this 


 nation's second most expensive conflict, trailing only World 


 War II, and with the federal government projecting trillion-


 dollar deficits for years to come, how much can we afford and 


 where is the money coming from?



 For political reasons the Obama administration may have 


 banished the phrase ''global war on terror,'' yet the 


 conviction persists that the United States is called upon to 


 dominate or liberate or transform the Greater Middle East. 


 Methods may be shifting, with the emphasis on pacification 


 giving way to militarized nation-building. Priorities may be 


 changing, Af-Pak now supplanting Iraq as the main effort. But 


 by whatever name, the larger enterprise continues. The 


 president who vows to ''change the way Washington works'' has 


 not yet exhibited the imagination needed to conceive of an 


 alternative to the project that his predecessor began.



 The urgent need is to de-mystify that project, which was 


 from the outset a misguided one. Just as in the 1960s we 


 possessed neither the wisdom nor the means needed to 


 determine the fate of Southeast Asia, so today we possess 


 neither the wisdom nor the means necessary to determine the 


 fate of the Greater Middle East. To persist in efforts to do 


 so--as the Obama administration appears intent on doing in 


 Afghanistan--will simply replicate on an even greater scale 


 mistakes like those that Bruce Palmer and John Kerry once 


 rightly decried.


I further read and want to close and then make a few comments with 
this. This is the last paragraph. Let me say about Andrew Bacevich, he, 
himself, was a Vietnam veteran. He, himself, was a veteran of Desert 
Storm. He, himself, taught at West Point. He lost a son in 2007, a 
young lieutenant who was killed in Iraq. So I think he brings great 
credibility to this article that he has written.

This is the last paragraph in the article. ''The urgent need is to 
demystify that project, which was from the outset a misguided one. Just 
as in the 1960s we possessed neither the wisdom nor the means needed to 
determine the fate of Southeast Asia, so today we possess neither the 
wisdom nor the means necessary to determine the fate of the Greater 
Middle East.

''To persist in efforts to do so--as the Obama administration appears 
intent on doing in Afghanistan--will simply replicate on an even 
greater scale mistakes like those that Bruce Palmer and John Kerry once 
rightly decried.''

Madam Speaker, I bring this forward because my friend from 
Massachusetts, Jim McGovern, has put a bill in that would say simply to 
the Secretary of Defense: You need to come to the Congress and tell the 
Congress what the exit strategy is for Afghanistan. Some people would 
say end point.

Let me briefly explain, having an exit strategy and saying that to 
the Congress, you don't have to say in 2009, 2010, or 2015 or 2020, but 
tell the American people where we are going when we send our young men 
and boys and girls to die in Afghanistan without a plan, without 
benchmarks.

So, Madam Speaker, I don't know if Mr. McGovern's amendment has been 
approved for debate tomorrow on the Armed Services bill, but I want to 
thank Mr. McGovern for bringing this to the attention of the American 
people and the Congress, because we need to have benchmarks. We need to 
have an end point to the strategy in Afghanistan.

The military, I know, from marines down in my district, will tell you 
that our military is tired. They're worn out. They'll keep going back 
and forth, back and forth because they love this Nation and they love 
defending America. But we've got to be realistic about breaking the 
military, because we have got North Korea over here threatening. We've 
got the Chinese. We don't know what they might do. Yet we need to have 
a plan for victory in Afghanistan. We cannot do what the Bush 
administration did in Iraq and keep going on and on.

Madam Speaker, as I close, as I do every night on this floor, I have 
signed over 8,000 letters to families and extended families who have 
lost loved ones in Afghanistan and Iraq. I ask God to please bless our 
men and women in uniform. I ask God to please bless the families of our 
men and women in uniform, and I ask God in his loving arms to hold the 
families who have given a child dying for freedom in Afghanistan and 
Iraq.

Madam Speaker, I ask three times; God, please, God please, God, 
please continue to bless America.
