---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `0bc892fe27106bb01b05bc7d3750215a`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 12 July 2007`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Madam President, I have a special thanks to the 
chairman and ranking member for their leadership on such a critical 
issue at such a critical time in our Nation. Their leadership and their 
ability to work together have certainly brought us together here on 
this issue and many others. I am grateful to them for that.

I rise today on behalf of the brave men and women of our National 
Guard and Reserve who have sacrificed so greatly for our freedom. They 
are the policemen and the doctors, the schoolteachers and mayors in 
communities all across our great land. They are also the beloved sons 
and daughters, fathers and mothers and families in our neighborhoods, 
in mine and yours, all across this Nation. Our Nation has turned to 
them in unprecedented numbers to help defend our freedoms around the 
world. With pride and courage, they have answered their Nation's call. 
We have seen also in their call to duty the great contribution they 
give in our communities because, as they are deployed, we see in our 
communities where perhaps our mayors or our school principals or our 
fire chiefs have to be replaced temporarily as they are gone.

Since the tragic events of September 11, 2001, nearly 600,000 of 
these citizen soldiers, including several thousand from my home State 
of Arkansas, have been activated to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan. More 
than 132,000 have pulled multiple tours of duty. In doing so, they have 
served and continue to serve with distinction in some of the worst 
conditions imaginable. It is time, now, for us as a nation and as a 
body here in the Senate to begin providing them with benefits that are 
more commensurate with their increased sacrifice.

One area in particular is the educational benefits provided under the 
Montgomery GI bill. These benefits were signed into law in 1984, a time 
when members of the Selected Reserve were seldom mobilized. 
Consequently, standard Montgomery GI benefits reflected that reality. 
But, unfortunately, it is not the same reality we see today. That is 
why I have offered two amendments to the 2008 Defense Authorization 
Act. These two amendments are a part of a bill that I have helped work 
with my colleague from Arkansas, Congressman Snyder, to put together in 
the Total Force GI bill that we have introduced on behalf of our Guard 
and Reserve. These two proposals offer two very big steps toward 
modernizing the Montgomery GI benefit to better reflect the increased 
commitment our Guard and Reserve are making to protect our Nation.

I am extremely proud to be joined by 13 of my colleagues, including 
the Presiding Officer, from both sides of the aisle and over 40 
military veterans and higher education groups, working together as the 
partnership for veterans education. So many of us all well know how 
critically valuable education is to each and every one of us, to our 
families, to the success of our economics and our country, and we want 
to see a part of that a possibility for our veterans.

The first amendment, which is amendment No. 2072, would place both 
Selected Reserve Montgomery GI programs under the same umbrella in law 
as the Active-Duty program. Under the current structure, Active-Duty 
benefits have continued to increase in recent years, while the benefits 
for our hard-working reservists have remained untouched. As a result, 
the value of the Montgomery GI benefits has plummeted for members of 
the Selected Reserve, despite their increased service, from 47 percent 
of Active-Duty benefits in 1985 to now only 29 percent of those 
benefits today. This amendment would establish one program with one set 
of rules that would cut inconsistent and inequitable structuring of 
benefits by ensuring that all future benefits are upgraded equitably 
and are easier to administer.

An identical provision has been included in the House-passed version 
of the Defense authorization bill. My hope is that my colleagues will 
join me in including this amendment in our Defense authorization bill 
to truly reflect not only our gratitude but certainly, without a doubt, 
what our guardsmen and reservists deserve after the incredible and 
courageous commitment they have made to this country.

The second amendment is amendment No. 2074, and it is identical to an 
amendment that was passed unanimously by the Senate last year. This 
amendment would allow operational reservists to have portability of 
their Reserve Education Assistance Program--it is called their REAP 
benefit--for up to 10 years upon their separation from service.

In establishing REAP, which is their Reserve Education Assistance 
Program, Congress took steps to enhance educational benefits for 
activated members of the Selected Reserve, but we failed to address 
their lack of readjustment or transition components. As a result, 
Active-Duty servicemembers have up to 10 years after their separation 
of service to utilize their Montgomery GI benefit, while operational 
reservists, whom they are often fighting alongside, without a doubt, 
must forfeit all of the educational benefits they have earned once they 
separate from the Selected Reserve.

That is incredible. We have guardsmen and reservists who are serving 
alongside Active-Duty military. They are seeing the same dangers, the 
same


challenges, the same pain, the same separation from family, for 
relatively the same amount of time. Yet when they come home and they 
leave the Guard, they no longer have access to those educational 
opportunities. How unfair. How important it is right now for us, as 
these returning veterans have an opportunity to begin to transition 
themselves back into their communities, back into their existing jobs 
or new jobs--the need for education is paramount, and making sure we 
make it available for them is absolutely essential.

To this day, the Montgomery GI benefits continue to be the only 
benefits that those who have served Selected Reserve activated duty in 
the war on terror may not access when they eventually separate or 
retire. In addition, members of today's Selected Reserve are so busy 
training and deploying that they have little time to actually use their 
educational benefits; therefore, their ability to use their benefits 
while serving is curtailed because of repeated deployment and denied 
entirely once they finish their service. We are talking about 
education. We are talking about empowerment. We are talking about 
something they deserve, they have earned, and we should be making sure 
we make available to them.

I would like to give an example. Take, for instance, Jamaal Lampkin, 
who is a 28-year-old native of Malvern, AR, whose story was recently 
reported in USA Today. Jamaal spent 13 months with the U.S. Army 
Reserve in Iraq. After his distinguished tour of duty, which included a 
Purple Heart, he did not have time to utilize the enhanced educational 
benefits he had earned prior to the conclusion of his service 
obligation. To do so, he had to reenlist and risk the chance of being 
redeployed at some point. How unbelievable, for someone who had given 
of himself and offered himself in service to this great Nation to come 
back and find that after that tour of duty, those benefits were gone.

In his records, here in this article, he said:




 I had the proud opportunity to serve my country in Iraq and 


 I just wanted to move on.

He, and those like him, certainly deserve as much. We must act on 
behalf of these brave Americans because they deserve a policy more 
reflective of their sacrifice. Jamal fought and was wounded alongside 
active-duty servicemembers, but because of an inequity of the law, he 
is denied the same opportunity to utilize those educational benefits he 
has rightly earned, benefits that serve as a primary means of helping 
our service men and women make that difficult transition back into 
civilian life after serving in combat.

Some have raised concerns this amendment would have an effect on 
retention because it would provide a postservice portability of 
benefits. I wholeheartedly disagree. There are many valid personal and 
family reasons that influence a volunteer's decision to serve. Military 
analysts have consistently noted that reenlistment bonuses and lump sum 
cash payments have been effective in meeting and exceeding reenlistment 
goals in the Active and Reserve forces, not the educational benefits 
that are deferred over time.

That is why we have seen an unprecedented increase in the amount 
spent on these bonuses in recent years. At a time when one branch of 
our military is spending over $1 billion in cash bonuses, the least we 
can do is provide a fraction of those costs on investing in our citizen 
soldiers. After all, doing so only serves to enhance our Nation's 
competitiveness through the development of a more highly educated and 
productive workforce.

Young high school graduates in Arkansas and across this great country 
thinking about furthering their education and whether to join the 
National Guard or Reserves should know they will earn Montgomery GI 
benefits by enlisting, and even more if they are called up to duty.

When it is time to reenlist, they can keep all earned educational 
benefits with the opportunity to earn more by staying in or they can 
take with them in civilian life the benefits they have earned when they 
were called up to defend our great Nation.

As the daughter of a Korean war veteran, I was taught from an early 
age about the sacrifices of our troops and the sacrifices our troops 
have to make to keep our Nation free. I have been grateful for the 
service of so many of our brave men and women from the State of 
Arkansas and across this Nation. On behalf of them and their families, 
I will continue to fight to ensure they are provided with the benefits, 
the pay, and the health care they have earned.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the 
Record letters of endorsement from the Military Officers Association of 
America, the National Reserve Association, the American Legion, the Air 
Force Sergeants of America, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the 
Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States.