---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `0bc8caa8c1746b9b536fac4c06e15b3d`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I was on the floor when the Senator 
from Virginia, Senator Warner, made his comments a little bit earlier. 
I hope a lot of the American people were listening to what Senator 
Warner had to say because there is nobody in this Senate who has more 
respect, not just on military issues but principally on military 
issues, than does Senator Warner. He not only has a lot of expertise, 
and great experience, but he is known to be very thoughtful in his 
deliberations. He doesn't arrive at decisions of major importance very 
easily or very quickly. For him to come to the floor and to make the 
statement he made earlier this afternoon, having thought through this 
issue and having now decided to change his vote on this particular 
amendment, is of monumental importance. It is the type of decision that 
makes all of us proud to serve in this great institution.

I rise in opposition to the Webb amendment. This amendment is about 
restricting the President and his military leaders' ability to 
prosecute a war we have asked them to execute and which we unanimously 
confirmed General Petraeus to carry out. It is an unwise and harmful 
effort to limit the ability of the President and his military 
leadership and to handicap their use of personnel and resources 
available to them.

Senator Webb's amendment would preclude deployment of certain Active 
and Reserve Forces based on the number of days they have spent at home. 
Keep in mind, these restrictions would apply to the Nation's most 
experienced and capable troops during a time of war, when we face an 
unpredictable and highly adaptive enemy.

That statement is very similar to what Senator Warner said a little 
bit earlier.

There is no one in this body who would not like to see every single 
one of our troops come home tomorrow. There is nothing pretty about a 
military conflict. There have been times in


the history of our country when we have had to bow our backs and when 
we have had to stand up to an enemy that sought to destroy what America 
stands for. That is exactly what we are doing in Iraq today.

What Senator Warner said is that if we make a decision in this body 
to micromanage the war, let's make no mistake about it, if this 
amendment passes, what we are really going to be doing is subjecting 
our men and women to greater harm and to the possibility of even 
greater inflicting of injuries and greater numbers, possibly, of making 
the ultimate sacrifice. This amendment says there are 435 Members of 
the House of Representatives and 100 Members of the Senate who have 
determined that this is the rotation that should be carried out by our 
military leadership relative to the conflict in Iraq, and that is a 
micromanagement of the war from the Halls of Congress versus the 
management of this conflict on the ground in theater by our military 
leadership in Iraq.

If we do micromanage this war, exactly what Senator Warner said is 
what is going to happen, and that is, today in Iraq, the most dangerous 
weapon that is being fired at our brave men and women who wear our 
uniform and are protecting the freedom is what we call the IED and the 
EFPs. These particular weapons are inflicting injuries on our men and 
women, and are inflicting death on our men and women, requiring them to 
make the ultimate sacrifice for our sake. We have a very limited number 
of trained military personnel who are experts in the area of detecting 
and defusing IEDs and EFPs. If we put those men and women on a 
mandatory rotation, then we are setting our men and women in uniform up 
for failure.

I have had a policy since I have been elected to Congress of not 
trying to make decisions on military issues relative to my personal 
feelings and my personal beliefs. My decisions have been based upon 
information I have received from our military leadership, both inside 
and outside the Pentagon, some civilian folks as well as men and women 
in uniform, who are more expert in these areas than I am.

In this case, I listened very closely last week as General Petraeus 
and Ambassador Crocker came to Congress and spent the whole day Monday 
with the House of Representatives, the whole day Tuesday in the Senate, 
testifying, answering every question that was propounded to them about 
what is going on relative to the new vision and the new strategy on the 
ground in Iraq. What I heard from those men who are the leaders from a 
diplomatic standpoint as well as from the military standpoint is we are 
seeing great progress made on the ground by our military that is unlike 
any progress we have seen during the last 4/1/2/ years. That is 
significant.

If you are not impressed by that, then you simply did not hear what 
they had to say. So I think now to say to them: Well, we appreciate the 
great job you have done leading our troops, but we are going to take 
the decision-making process out of your hands, and we are now going to 
decide how the war is going to be prosecuted, that, I think would be a 
huge mistake.

The Pentagon and the civilian side have responded to the Webb 
amendment and said this, that if the Webb amendment passes:




 Operations and plans would need to be significantly 


 altered. Units or individuals without sufficient dwell time 


 would need a waiver to deploy based on threat. This waiver 


 process adds time, cost, and uncertainty to deployment 


 planning.


Secondly:




 In emergency situations, the waiver process could affect 


 the war fight itself by delaying forces needed in theater.


Thirdly:




 Units would need to be selected for deployment based on 


 dwell criteria that may in fact cause significant disruption 


 to needed reset, planned transformation or unit training 


 schedules.


Fourthly:




 The Department routinely deploys units at less than a one-


 to-one deployment-to-dwell ratio if the individuals within a 


 unit meet minimum dwell requirements.


The proposed language stipulates minimum periods between deployments 
for both units and individuals. The requirement to meet both criteria 
for unit and individuals before deployment could severely limit the 
options for sourcing rotations.

And more specifically and directly to the point, in a letter dated 
September 18, 2007, from the Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates, to 
Senator Lindsey Graham, I quote a comment made by the Secretary. He 
says:




 The cumulative effect of the above steps [and he had 


 outlined the Webb amendment] necessary to comply with Senator 


 Webb's amendment, in our judgment, would significantly 


 increase the risk to our servicemembers.


Now, this is one of the military experts in the United States of 
America, the chief civilian military officer, saying: If this amendment 
passes, it could significantly--it would significantly increase the 
risk to our servicemembers. And yet some folks are going to vote in 
favor of this amendment in spite of the fact that the chief civilian 
military leader of the United States says it has the potential to 
significantly increase the risk to our men and women in uniform.

The power of Congress under article I of the Constitution to make 
rules for the Government and the regulation of the land and naval 
forces is well understood, as is the President's authority under 
article II, to command our military forces as commander-in-chief. This 
amendment, however, is an unprecedented wartime attempt to limit the 
authority of the President and the military leaders by declaring a 
substantial number of troops and units unavailable.


Now, again, let me close by saying I wish we could bring everybody 
home tomorrow and that this conflict would be over. We know we are 
going to be in this conflict for a long time. The President could not 
have been clearer on that issue when, on September 17, 2001, in a 
statement to a joint session of both the House and the Senate, he said:




 This is going to be a long and enduring war.


He was right then, and he is right now. This is a long and enduring 
war. It is not dictated by the brave and professional job our men and 
women are doing, but it is dictated by a vicious enemy that seeks to 
destroy everything that is good about America.

We have men and women who are serving today in an all-volunteer Army, 
Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps. They are very dedicated men and women. 
They know the mission they have to carry out in Iraq. I know because I 
have been there five times. I have talked with them with their boots on 
the ground, including about 3 months ago when I had an opportunity to 
visit with a number of soldiers in an area that had just been cleaned 
out, an area in Al Anbar Province called Ramadi.

Ramadi, a year ago this month, was the self-declared capital of al-
Qaida in Iraq by al-Qaida itself. Today, because of the great job and 
the professional job our men and women, fighting side by side with 
members of the Iraqi Army and other coalition forces, is clear of al-
Qaida. But if we seek to limit the ability of our leadership, if we 
seek to micromanage the war from the Halls of Congress versus on the 
ground by our leadership in Iraq, then the potential is certainly there 
for an immediate return of al-Qaida in Iraq to places such as Ramadi.

There is no more important time in the history of our country than 
the present. That has been the case in so many situations. Certainly 
this is a very critical time in the history of our country from the 
standpoint of the ability of future generations to live in the same 
safe and secure America every previous generation has enjoyed. There is 
no better way to ensure that, than to make sure we prevail and we win 
in Iraq.

It is my opinion and the opinion of military leadership, the passage 
of this amendment leads this nation down a trail of exposure to those 
who seek to do us harm, when what we need to be doing is listening 
those men and women who are serving proudly to secure our future 
generations from the enemy.

I yield the floor.