---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `0bcbc2d005a64a3126e563cf9e647a10`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.

Mr. Chairman, I rise today to support the Homeland Security 
appropriation, and I would just have to say the word ''irony'' has been 
used by both sides of the aisle quite a bit. I think the irony here is 
that the Republican side of the aisle is trying to do what they did 
last year, which is not to pass a budget, not to pass appropriations 
and try to bring this country to a halt by delaying, delaying, 
delaying.

Well, that's fine and dandy for them to play those kinds of games, 
but this country expects a change. It voted for a change in direction. 
It voted for strong national security, which this bill reflects and 
represents.

This bill reflects and represents protection on our borders, 
protection on our ports. We have additions to FEMA so that we have 
protection and response to natural disasters. Instead, our friends 
would like to stall and hold this Chamber hostage because they can't 
get the pork they want. They want their pork, and they want to eat it 
too.

Ladies and gentlemen, this is wrong. This stalling tactic has got to 
stop. This Nation deserves much better than what we are seeing from the 
Republican side of the aisle.

They would like us to ignore the fact that billions of dollars are 
missing in Iraq under their administration and under their leadership. 
They would like us to forget the fact that there were sweetheart deals 
to Halliburton and to many others where there was no bid and no 
contracts.

They would like the country to forget history, which has brought this


country into the biggest debt that we have ever seen. They would rather 
talk about earmarks, which they really mean to be pork, because they 
aren't going to get their pork. They aren't going to get their bridge 
to nowhere because we are not going to let them have that. We will 
fight for the American people every day, as long as it takes.

We are here because of guys like Jack Abramoff, Duke Cunningham, Bob 
Ney, Mark Foley. Those are the individuals that helped create a 
Democratic majority because people were tired of it, and they wanted a 
change in direction.

We're going to change the focus of this Congress and this Nation from 
what the Republicans did, which was the wealthiest 1 percent to the 
hardworking people in the middle. We passed a minimum wage law. We 
passed bills out of here to reduce the cost of prescription drugs under 
Medicare part D. We are focused, ladies and gentlemen, under this bill 
on the national security of the United States of America.

Instead, our friends on the other side are focused on pork and their 
bridges to nowhere.

This is a travesty; this is a delaying tactic. This is not in the 
interests of the United States of America. I support this bill and ask 
for an ''aye'' vote.