# IRAQ
## `0be43afec8e0ee75a2962b4cbef37e5c`
`Mr. ISAKSON â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the cloture vote on 
the motion to proceed to S. 574. I will vote in opposition to moving 
forward on that resolution because I don't believe it offers me the 
opportunity to express what I believe this body should be doing on the 
war on terror and the war in Iraq and for our men and women in harm's 
way. I want to take a minute to explain as well as I can why I believe 
so strongly and so passionately in that regard.

Ironically, 30 minutes before I came to the Chamber, I got a press 
release from the Department of Defense announcing that deployment of 
over 1,000 members of the 3rd ID stationed at Fort Stewart, GA has been 
accelerated from June to March of 2007. Those soldiers will shortly be 
leaving our great State on their way to be deployed in Baghdad, 
specifically as a part of the President's mission to secure and hold 
and to build.

I can't be certain of this, but I imagine some of those soldiers are 
probably watching television today in Hinesville, GA. They might even 
be watching C-SPAN. They might even hear these remarks. So I make them 
in the belief and with the hope that they are listening, as well as 
those soldiers in Baghdad and Balad and Tallil who are watching their 
monitors in the mess hall or the command post, as well as those who are 
our enemies, those who would do us harm, those who are the reason we 
are in Iraq and Afghanistan today.

It is not right to send a mixed message in a nonbinding resolution 
while our men and women are deploying in defense of this country and at 
the order of the President, our Commander in Chief. The result of that 
is to send a message of doubt to our men and women and a message of 
hope to our enemy. We can have our differences--and anybody who watches 
the debate on this floor knows, we certainly have our differences--but 
there should be no difference or equivocation in the support of our men 
and women in harm's way and our men and women now on the ground in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

For a minute I want to talk about how deeply I believe in our 
options, because we only have two. The first is an opportunity for 
success. That is what the President has chosen. This surge, criticized 
by some, is even a part of the Hamilton-Baker report where they 
addressed a potential surge in their report. The President, after 
listening to many of us and to his commanders and, certainly to General 
Petraeus, has decided to deploy these troops to go into Baghdad, to go 
into Anbar, to secure it; and then, with the help of the Iraqi 
soldiers, to hold; and then, with the help of USAID, the State 
Department, and the world community, to build and to have a platform 
and a foundation upon which political reconciliation will take place. 
Every one of us knows that, ultimately, reconciliation will make the 
difference in whether our hopes and dreams for the Iraqi people and the 
hopes and dreams they have for themselves will, in fact, take place.

I serve on the Foreign Relations Committee. I sat through 28 hours of 
testimony from countless experts, one after another. Most of them had 
mixed feelings on the surge. Some were unalterably opposed. Some said 
it may work. Some said it would work. They had differences of opinion, 
as we do. But in 28 hours of testimony, from expert after expert, from 
Madeleine Albright to Henry Kissinger, from think tank after think 
tank, from Jack Murtha and Newt Gingrich--Newt a former Speaker of the 
House; Jack certainly outspoken on this issue in the House--every one 
of them agreed on one fact: A redeployment of our troops or a 
withdrawal would lead, at the very least, to thousands of deaths and 
more likely the slaughter of tens of thousands and maybe even millions 
of people in Iraq and possibly beyond in the Middle East.

Withdrawing, repositioning, turning our back is a recipe for 
disaster. And the world knows how important our success is. I spent 
last weekend in Munich, Germany, at the World Security Conference, 
where Vladimir Putin and the Iranian Foreign Secretary and Prime 
Minister spoke. We met with Chancellor Merkel of Germany and 
representatives from Bulgaria, Estonia, and Japan. Do you know what is 
so eye opening to me? With rare exception, each one expressed their 
appreciation for what the United States of America and our allies are 
doing, and their hope and prayer is we will succeed. They know what we 
know: We are in the ultimate war between good and evil. Iraq is but a 
battle in the war on terror that will move to other places. If we ever 
give comfort or hope to our enemy that we may turn and come home, leave 
the battlefield, leave them to their own volition, then we know it is 
the beginning of the end for the peaceful societies and the democracies 
of this world.

Chancellor Merkel of Germany--a country where popular opinion is very 
much against the war--announced her commitment of more Tornadoes to be 
deployed to Afghanistan. We have 46,000 troops there--23,000 Americans 
and 23,000 from countries around the world--pursuing to keep that 
fledgling democracy secure as the Taliban makes one last effort.

The enthusiasm of the world is in support of the United States and 
our men and women in harm's way. I think that enthusiasm should take 
place on the Senate floor in the United States of America as well. My 
vote tomorrow of ''no'' on the motion to proceed will not be a desire 
to cut off debate. It will, in fact, be a desire to elevate the debate. 
I think every side that is represented on this Senate floor ought to be 
a side that is spoken. I personally prefer the Gregg amendment and do 
not prefer and would not vote for the resolution


of the Senator from Nevada, which is the same resolution now being 
debated on the floor of the Senate. I think I ought to have an 
opportunity to express to the thousand members of 3rd ID leaving to go 
to Iraq, to the men and women in Iraq who are listening, and to the 
constituents I have in the State, regardless of which side of the issue 
they are on--the Senate deserves a right to debate all of the valid 
points of the questions that confront us in Iraq.

I know earlier in a speech given on the floor the content was 
primarily a recitation of the names of those who have died in uniform 
in Iraq from the United States of America. I don't take the position I 
take lightly, nor do I not think for a moment about the sacrifice that 
has already been made by men and women from my State--from PFC Diego 
Rincon, the first Georgian to lose his life fighting in Iraq--Diego, by 
the way, was not a United States citizen when he died, and we gave him 
citizenship posthumously because of the commitment he made to this 
country--to LT Noah Harris, from Elijay, GA, who was a cheerleader at 
the University of Georgia on 9/11. He was so moved by what happened 
that he jumped into ROTC in his junior year and pursued a commission in 
the United States Army, received it, and went to Iraq. He died fighting 
for what he believed this country was all about: to stand up to the 
agents of terror and those who would use it to pursue their cause. 
Also, there was SGT Mike Stokely, a brave American who died in pursuit 
of freedom and peace in Iraq, and the hundreds of other Georgians who 
have been wounded or sacrificed their lives. They should not die in 
vain. They went for the reason that they believed volunteers are 
important to them and their country. They volunteered and made that 
commitment knowingly and willingly. They deserve the chance to pursue 
this effort for success in Baghdad and Anbar with enthusiasm from our 
Senate and our Government. From me, they have that.

When we read a list of those who lost their lives, we have to 
remember how long the list is of those who live today because our men 
and women in the Armed Forces, in wars past and in war today, fight for 
security and peace and fight for us to live.

We saw on 9/11 the manifest horror tyranny and terror can bring, and 
we will see it again if we lose our resolve to pursue it wherever it 
takes us--Afghanistan, Iraq, or places yet known to us.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, with the confidence and pride in 
the men and women who serve in the Armed Forces and my willingness to 
fully support an opportunity for success rather than a recipe for 
disaster.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.