---
---

# PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `0bee7969b68d9d168eb36f75876af17d`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. In closing, I want to thank the gentlelady from Florida 
for her commitment to this debate and for her passion to make sure 
American foreign policy always receives a very strong and ringing 
endorsement. I want to thank the gentleman from New York and also the 
gentleman from California for this. And I want to thank Mr. Paul, who 
has been a very powerful voice in this country to talk about the 
limitations of power.

People have been asking why this resolution and why now? Because I 
strongly believe that we should nip in the bud an expansion of U.S. 
ground presence in Pakistan.



We need to do this to keep our troops out of harm's way. Now, it's no 
secret the administration ordered hundreds of drone attacks in Pakistan 
just this year resulting in the deaths of hundreds of innocent 
civilians. It's not been widely discussed until today that we had over 
120 U.S. military in the country ''training'' Pakistani security 
forces. We have to appreciate the Wall Street Journal's reporting on 
this where they covered the fact that there was an increase in the U.S. 
forces in Pakistan who are there to train Pakistan military forces, and 
it's a force comprised of the tribal regions.

I want to say that the recent reports released by WikiLeaks and 
published in The New York Times and the Guardian on the war in 
Afghanistan confirmed to us what we already know: that 9 years on we're 
still uncovering an abundance of information that our presence in 
Afghanistan is counterproductive. And now we want to further expand 
attacks, drone attacks in the presence of U.S. Special Forces in 
Pakistan?

The WikiLeaks reports also reveal that while we're in Pakistan 
spending billions to support them in their efforts to fight, to reshape 
their environment and also to fight the Pakistani Taliban, Pakistan is 
in Afghanistan to help the Taliban fight us.

Now, regardless of one's support for or opposition to the way that 
the global war on terror has unfolded, this resolution has been about 
securing an open and meaningful debate, about the expansion of war into 
Pakistan.

Mr. Speaker, Article I, section 8 puts very firmly in the hands of 
Congress the war powers. We have seen a series of imperial Presidencies 
and some that were not so imperial but, nevertheless, took this war 
power as their own, basically nullifying the position of Congress that 
has been with us since the founding of this country that it's Congress 
that's supposed to restrain the dog of war. This resolution is the way 
to put Congress back into the debate over whether or not America 
commits troops anywhere in the world.

I support the President, but I don't support sending more troops, for 
whatever reason, into Pakistan. I don't support sending more troops 
into Afghanistan. I don't support sending more troops into Iraq. I 
support bringing them home. That's the way you can support the troops, 
in my view. Other Members here, in conscience and rightly, 
understanding the world in a different way, have a different point of 
view. I respect that. But it's time that Congress has a say in this.