# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `0bf355503e234a275122a4cd154e9da5`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 7 May 2008`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, it is estimated that 199 million 
Americans--or one in three--suffer from some kind of brain or nervous 
system illness, injury or disorder. Among these illnesses are 
debilitating diseases and conditions, including: Alzheimer's, multiple 
sclerosis, epilepsy, Parkinson's disease, and traumatic brain injury. 
These diseases are challenging for the patients and for their loved 
ones, who often have intense caretaker burdens.

In addition, our men and women fighting overseas are suffering from 
these conditions in record numbers. The signature injuries of the 
current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan are brain and spinal cord 
injuries, such as traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress 
disorder, and paralysis. For example, it is estimated that as many as 
12 percent to 20 percent of servicemembers who have served in Iraq 
suffer from PTSD alone.

The combined economic burden of these illnesses and disorders is 
estimated at $1 trillion annually--and this cost is rising quickly as 
our population ages and our military conflicts continue. Recent 
discoveries are revolutionizing our understanding of the human brain, 
and new uses for these discoveries are emerging almost every day. At 
the same time, researchers still have a limited understanding of the 
human brain and how best to diagnose, treat, and cure its diseases. The 
current research system for neurological diseases is disjointed and 
often limits this life altering research from reaching the patients in 
need. For example, compared to the average drug, it costs nearly $100 
million more--and takes 2 years longer--to bring a drug that treats a 
neurological disease to the market.

We need a targeted, coordinated, national effort to support the 
development of neurotechnology. It is vitally important that public 
infrastructure be developed to ensure that today's neurotechnology 
discoveries quickly become tools to improve the human condition. This 
research has the potential to transform highly specialized areas of 
medicine, computing, and defense. It could dramatically change 
Americans' everyday lives.

The National Neurotechnology Initiative Act addresses each of these 
issues. I am proud to be an original cosponsor with my colleague from 
New Mexico. Under this proposal, the National Institutes of Health 
would receive funds to coordinate research and


move research into innovative companies developing the next generation 
of treatments.

This legislation will also accelerate research and treatment of 
neurological diseases by removing key bottlenecks in the system. It 
will coordinate neurological research across Federal agencies, create a 
coordinated blueprint for neuroscience at the NIH, and streamline the 
FDA approval process for life changing neuro drugs--without sacrificing 
safety. All of this will mean more treatments faster for millions of 
Americans.

This act is an investment in America's neurological health. 
Investigation into the mechanisms and functions of the brain will lead 
to vastly improved understanding of brain disease and injuries and 
human behavior. It will give us an unprecedented ability to treat and 
heal those in need. The act also will dramatically reduce healthcare 
costs while expanding the American neurotechnology industry and 
creating good American jobs. Finally, this bill will help us honor our 
debt to the brave men and women of America's armed forces.

Today, I am proud to introduce this legislation with Senator 
Domenici. I thank him for his leadership on this issue, and I look 
forward to working with him and my other colleagues to pass this 
important legislation.