# CONSOLIDATED SECURITY, DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `0bf7ebfb9d2018ca6d51cc55de5bf285`
`Mr. MURTHA — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. MURTHA. The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense has held 
22 hearings and our members and staff have visited over 100 military 
bases and facilities, both here at home and throughout the world. The 
result is a $487.7 billion fiscal year 2009 Defense Appropriations bill 
that supports our troops and their families; invests in equipment 
needed to support the force; imposes fiscal discipline necessary to 
manage the department's resources; and addresses flaws in the U.S. 
national security policy.

Earlier this year, I was disappointed to hear the Secretary of 
Defense say that the U.S. military must prepare for fighting wars 
against insurgents and militias, he is talking about the future, such 
as those in Iraq and Afghanistan, rather than spend time and resources 
preparing for future conventional conflicts.

I find these comments to be misguided and lacking in strategic 
vision, and the subcommittee agrees. When 90 percent of our ground 
combat units are rated as not fully mission capable and with what 
happened in Georgia, we need to be prepared for a contingency to 
prevent war.

This lack of strategic foresight has left our Armed Forces in a 
degraded state of readiness, has left our military facilities in 
disrepair, and has left many defense acquisition programs broken or 
badly damaged. That is in spite the fact that under Jerry Lewis and 
under Bill Young we put all the money we could put into the products in 
order to get them upgraded.

The bill addresses our future military needs and provides the 
resources urgently needed by the Department of Defense to prepare the 
United States military forces for threats to our national security 
beyond the current wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I am inspired by our troops and their families. Their sacrifice and 
service to this great country are applauded by both the American people 
and this Congress. We may disagree on matters of policy, but we can all 
agree on the need to take care of our troops and tend to the needs of 
their families. This bill addresses these needs in many ways.

For medical treatment and research, the bill adds $1 billion over the 
budget request within the Defense Health Program. Some of the 
recommendations include $300 million for traumatic brain injury and 
psychological help. Our subcommittee has been in the forefront of 
making sure that we have PTSD in mind; $40 million for medical care 
centers of excellence at Walter Reed Army Medical Center; $150 million 
for breast cancer research; $80 million for prostate cancer research; 
$20 million for ovarian cancer research; and $20 million for lung 
cancer. We found that 20 percent more military families have lung 
cancer than nonmilitary families, so we put money in trying to detect 
it early, which is how we prevent it.

For Family Advocacy Programs, the bill includes $102 million above 
the budget request, for a total of $410 million.



The bill provides $72 million to compensate servicemembers for Stop-
Loss. We originally had more money in, but we couldn't figure out 
exactly how many people we had with Stop-Loss, so we said to the 
military, okay, we put $72 million in. After October 1st, anybody that 
has Stop-Loss gets paid, but you have to go back, do a study, and then 
tell us how much money you need for the period after that.

The bill provides $734 million above the budget request for the 
renovation and repair of barracks, military hospitals and other O&M 
funding for these facilities.

The bill includes language to ensure that the DOD takes steps 
necessary to ensure that Walter Reed National Military Medical Center 
and Fort Belvoir remain the gold standard of military medicine.

The bill expresses concern over the frequency of troop deployments 
and the stress this places on the servicemembers and their families. 
All of us have seen the stress on the families.

Equipment and support of the forces. Key to improving U.S. military 
posture is to maintain our domestic industrial base.

Shipbuilding, $14.1 billion.

The bill provides an additional $523 million for the F-22.

The bill more efficiently aligns funding of the Joint Strike Fighter, 
$6.3 billion.

The bill includes $750 million for the National Guard, and we put 
$750 million in the supplemental unanimously.

The bill includes $3.6 billion for the Army's Future Combat Systems.

Improving fiscal responsibility. This bill reduces programs which 
have experienced uncontrolled cost growth due to poor management and 
designed instability while increasing funding for oversight activities.

The bill cuts $650 million from unjustified and uncontrolled growth 
in outsourcing, and adds $24 million for additional personnel required 
by the DOD Inspector General to oversee growth of DOD contracts.

For instance, I just saw in the news media, and that doesn't mean it 
is true, but there is $13 billion that has gotten lost someplace in the 
Iraq spending, $9 billion of it U.S. funds, according to the newspaper.

The bill reduces the presidential helicopter program, but we kept it 
alive, hoping we can get the cost down for the individual.

It cuts $197 million and 16 aircraft from the Armed Recognizance 
Helicopter.

I recommend that the Members vote for this bill. It is an entire 
bill. When the bill is signed by the President, it will be money for 
the rest of the year.


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH24SE08.286




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH24SE08.287




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH24SE08.288




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH24SE08.289



