---
---

# THE COUNTDOWN CREW
## `0c0fe1392a445ef5fc3555f9cf081af2`
`Mr. SHUSTER — 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. SHUSTER. I thank the gentleman for joining me and appreciate that 
report on the revenues to the government. Once again it proves that tax 
cuts do work. It increases the economic activity in this country, which 
generates more revenue not only for the government, but for the good 
people of America that are out there working hard every day. They are 
able to put more of that money into their pockets instead of sending it 
to the bureaucrats in Washington to spend it.

I think it is important on this fourth anniversary that we did speak 
about what is happening in Iraq, and most importantly what is going to 
happen on this House floor.

The American people, I was told by Colonel Walt Piatt in Afghanistan 
when I visited there a couple years ago, and I was talking to Colonel 
Piatt, who is from my district, and we were talking about the effort 
and the needs of the troops and the military equipment, and he said to 
me, you know, America's power is not its soldier, it is not its 
weaponry, it is not the bombs we create. The strength in America is the 
will of the American people, because if the soldiers know that the 
people are behind what they are doing, in support of what they are 
doing, they can accomplish anything.

I think what is going to be said here on this House floor, because 
the House, we are the people elected, we are the leaders elected from 
our districts, 435 districts, and what we say here is going to go a 
long way in whether we are going to be successful in helping the Iraqis 
building a democracy, in stabilizing that country and helping long term 
what is going to happen in the Middle East.

So it is going to be very critical what is said here on the floor in 
this war supplemental. Are we going to use it as a political ploy, use 
it as a bargaining chip, use our men and women as bargaining chips to 
get spending to things that don't belong in this war supplemental, or 
are we going to do the right thing, and that is you support our men and 
women with the funding that they need? Are we going to support them?

That is going to be a large step in proving to them that we are with 
them, that we are behind them and that we are not going to put in 
arbitrary deadlines that are going to give our adversaries and our 
enemies a leg up on us.

So this is going to be an absolutely critical week for America. It is 
going to be a critical week and a defining moment I believe for the 
majority party, because I don't believe, and I think it is pretty 
clear, the American people don't like conflict, don't like war, don't 
like death, don't like destruction. Nobody likes that. But the American 
people do not want to lose in Iraq. I think that is very clear. And 
this war supplemental, putting in these arbitrary timetables, is a 
prescription for that.

It is micromanaging this war by the politicians in Washington, just 
like many on the other side of the aisle say is what happened in 
Vietnam. That was wrong in Vietnam, and yet they are standing up on the 
House floor this week and the past couple weeks proposing that we do 
just that, micromanage this war. 435 Members of the House, 100 
Senators, they are not the Commander in Chief.



The Constitution is clear. When you are fighting a war, you need one 
leader. When you are fighting a war, you leave it to the professionals, 
you leave it to the generals, you leave it to the colonels, you leave 
it to the men and women that are trained to do this, not bring it on 
the House floor. And as I said and as The Washington Post has said, 
trying to micromanage this war is the wrong thing to do for the Iraqi 
people, it is the wrong thing to do for the American people, and it is 
the wrong thing to do for the men and women that are in harm's way.

So I hope we are able to come together on this House floor and strip 
out many of those things that are in here that just make it unworkable 
and bad for the American people and the military.
