# UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2009--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `0c166c6978218e584d210b14913f7884`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 28 October 2009`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, in 2002, then-Senator Biden chaired a 
series of Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearings on U.S. policy 
toward Iraq. These hearings challenged many prevailing assumptions and 
called into question the wisdom of invading Iraq. To the detriment of 
our Armed Forces, our counterterrorism efforts, and the standing of the 
United States around the world, our government ignored those prescient 
warnings.

Our country is again contemplating sending tens of thousands of 
troops into battle, this time as an escalation of the 8-year war in 
Afghanistan. In fact, the escalation has already begun, with an 
additional squadron to begin deploying in November.

Sadly, the impact of our expanding military engagement in Afghanistan 
is becoming increasingly and painfully clear, as October has become the 
deadliest month for U.S. troops since the war began, and more 
servicemembers have been killed this year than in the first 4 years 
combined.

I commend Senator John Kerry for holding a series of exceptional 
hearings in the Foreign Relations Committee over the past month on U.S. 
policy in this critical region. Expert witnesses have provided a sober 
analysis of the situation there.

I urge my colleagues, if they have a chance, to read the transcripts 
of these hearings and consider the opinions of this diverse group of 
former military officials, intelligence officers, diplomats, academics, 
and experts in the region. Of course, a handful of the witnesses 
supported an escalation of our military involvement in Afghanistan, but 
the majority of the regional experts--including CIA veterans who have 
deep experience in the region--questioned whether the stated aims of 
our military strategy are achievable or necessary in order to deny al-
Qaida an uncontested safe haven in Afghanistan. Many expressed concern 
that our current military-focused approach may be making things worse.


President Obama has refocused our attention on the Afghanistan-
Pakistan region, and for this I give him great credit. I am also 
pleased to see this administration is taking the time to have serious 
discussions about our strategy and the many possible alternatives. We 
must find a way to relentlessly pursue al-Qaida's global network 
without destabilizing this critical region, overstretching our military 
or needlessly spending money we do not have. This will require a 
smaller, more targeted,


and sustainable military strategy combined with far more robust 
regional diplomatic engagement.

I would like to go over what I consider to be some of the myths that 
are being used to support the notion of a significant buildup of troops 
in Afghanistan.

One is that preventing a potential al-Qaida safe haven in Afghanistan 
is more important than addressing existing safe havens elsewhere. That 
is not what we heard at the hearings.

The committee's hearings have revealed that calls for an open-ended 
or increased military presence in Afghanistan are based upon several 
flawed assumptions or myths. The first common myth is that preventing a 
potential al-Qaida safe haven in Afghanistan is more important than 
other potential safe havens. Again and again, we hear that if we do not 
send more troops, the Taliban will regain control of Afghanistan and 
again provide a safe haven in which al-Qaida could reestablish training 
facilities or launch attacks on the United States. That statement may 
be true, but it contains a number of assumptions that need to be 
closely examined. Will more troops make a difference? How likely is it 
the Taliban will actually regain control of Afghanistan? Even if it 
does, what will its relationship be with al-Qaida? But the biggest 
unasked question is: What are the costs of pursuing this strategy and 
is it necessary to address the very real threat posed by al-Qaida?

Al-Qaida already has a safe haven in Pakistan and is operating in 
other countries around the globe. Addressing this global threat 
requires a smart and sustainable use of our resources around the world, 
including in Afghanistan, rather than disproportionately directing our 
resources toward only one of many potential safe havens.

Several witnesses called into question even the likelihood that the 
Taliban would overrun Kabul. Even if the Taliban were to continue to 
exert control over certain areas, experts challenged the simplistic 
assumption that al-Qaida would then be able to reestablish the kind of 
operational freedom it had in Afghanistan prior to 9/11.

Moreover, sending more troops to Afghanistan may not prevent an al-
Qaida safe haven there. As General McChrystal noted in his own 
assessment, even if we send additional troops, they would necessarily 
be focused on limited areas and would still leave substantial portions 
of the country outside the control of the Afghan Government or U.S. 
forces.

Several witnesses questioned whether we can afford to dedicate so 
many resources to one country when we face a global adversary. Instead, 
as Robert Grenier, the former CIA station chief in Islamabad during the 
2001 invasion in Afghanistan, testified:




 The best that we can hope for is not a permanent 


 elimination of a safe haven [in Afghanistan] . . . but rather 


 the elimination of an uncontested safe haven. [W]e need to be 


 in a place where we can continue to play the game, which 


 means that we need to be able to do that on a sustainable 


 basis. . . .What we are currently doing I believe is not 


 sustainable either by us or by the Afghans.


We have to have a sustainable, targeted counterterrorism strategy 
that can contest potential safe havens and, thus, prevent al-Qaida from 
regaining the footing they had in the 1990s. Trying to achieve total 
elimination of such safe havens through a large-scale, open-ended 
military mission is not only infeasible, it is physically and 
politically unsustainable and could provoke even greater instability in 
the region. It is time we develop a counterterrorism policy for 
Afghanistan that places it in the context of al-Qaida's many current 
and potential safe havens, including in Yemen, Somalia and North Africa 
and many other places around the world.

A second oft-cited myth is, we already tried engaging in such a 
limited counterterrorism operation in Afghanistan after the 2001 
invasion and the situation on the ground only deteriorated.

On the contrary, the strategy of the United States in Afghanistan, 
over the past 6 years, has been uncoordinated and neglected and much of 
the limited resources went to pursuing militants in Afghanistan while 
al-Qaida was rebuilding in Pakistan. This strategy failed not because 
it was targeted at al-Qaida but because it generated resentment among 
the local population and created a groundswell of opposition. It also 
failed because it turned a blind eye to the corruption and lack of 
legitimacy of both the Afghan and Pakistani Governments. The previous 
administration's extreme reliance on Pervez Musharraf not only failed 
to achieve our immediate counterterrorism goals, but it undermined the 
perception among the Pakistani population that we were working with 
them against mutual threats. As a result, we lost a crucial opportunity 
to eliminate al-Qaida and the Taliban from, and bring stability to, 
Afghanistan.

By contrast, the Obama administration has focused on Pakistan and 
supported the emergence of a civilian government that shares our 
counterterrorism goals. We have a strong interest in Pakistan's 
continued military operations. We must remain engaged so any tactical 
successes are accompanied by rules of engagement that protect the 
civilian population and ensure humane treatment of displaced persons, 
which are essential to ensuring that these successes actually result in 
strategic victories.

Much more remains to be done, including efforts to strengthen 
responsive civilian governance and encourage Pakistan to tackle the 
deeper socioeconomic problems that the Director of National 
Intelligence has testified are driving instability in that country. 
None of this will be easy, but counterterrorism in Pakistan will not be 
achieved through our escalation in Afghanistan. One thing is certain. 
At no point in the last 8 years has this kind of comprehensive, focused 
strategy for Pakistan been attempted.

In Afghanistan, I am not suggesting we would necessarily just limit 
ourselves to what some have called an over-the-horizon presence. We may 
need to maintain bases and consider a range of counterterrorism 
options. But we will never return to the neglect and strategic drift of 
the pre-9/11 period, nor should we resume the unfocused mission we saw 
for much of the previous administration.

This recognition is why several witnesses testified that a targeted 
counterterrorism strategy, which has never been tried before, would 
likely succeed in denying al-Qaida an uncontested safe haven. This 
sustainable strategy, along with a flexible timetable for the 
withdrawal of troops of the United States from Afghanistan, could 
easily reduce the perception that we are engaging in an open-ended 
military occupation of that country.

As to a third myth, there are many who argue that a larger military 
presence is required in order to stabilize Afghanistan. However, many 
of the experts testified that an increase of foreign troops in 
Afghanistan will likely provoke additional militancy.

Reports indicate that militancy in both Afghanistan and Pakistan has 
increased over the years. According to Milt Bearden, the former CIA 
station chief in Islamabad: ''40,000 troops will beget 40,000 more 
enemy . . . '' We must appreciate that our military presence may well 
be counterproductive and, in fact, driving the conflict, creating more 
militants than it is eliminating.

Indeed, it may even be undermining our ability to divide our enemies. 
CIA veterans Robert Grenier and Mark Sageman testified that, in Mr. 
Grenier's words, Afghans ''tend to coalesce against what is perceived 
as an outsider.''

It is not surprising, then, that many of the witnesses who appeared 
before the Foreign Relations Committee agreed that a political solution 
is essential to stability in Afghanistan. As Mr. Bearden testified, 
there is no ''military solution--for us or the Afghans.''

We can and will relentlessly pursue al-Qaida. We have to find a way 
to do so that does not further destabilize the region. Increasing our 
troop levels in Afghanistan will only make this more difficult.


As to a fourth myth, another frequently cited myth is we must 
maintain a large military presence in Afghanistan in order to prevent 
the destabilization of Pakistan. In reality, our massive military 
footprint in Afghanistan has contributed to instability in Pakistan.

Several witnesses agreed the majority of Pakistanis would not welcome 
an increased military presence in Afghanistan. Mr. Grenier stated:







 I think that a large increase in U.S. presence in 


 Afghanistan would not be welcomed by the majority of 


 Pakistanis. I think that it would make the struggle seem all 


 the more starkly one of the U.S. against Muslims as opposed 


 to the U.S. supporting Afghans in their own struggle.


As former British diplomat Rory Stewart testified, the ''stabilized 
Pakistan'' rationale for a military presence in Afghanistan also 
ignores ''the real drivers of the problems in Pakistan. Pakistan will 
not stand or fall on Afghanistan. It's about the Pakistani government, 
it's about the Pakistani military, it's about the Pakistani economy and 
the Pakistani society . . . by and large, Afghanistan is far less 
important to the future of Pakistan than we're suggesting.''

In fact, our presence in Afghanistan could be counterproductive. CIA 
veteran Paul Pillar recently testified in the House that ''an expanded 
U.S.-led counterinsurgency in Afghanistan would be more likely to 
complicate rather than to alleviate the task of Pakistani security 
forces insofar as it succeeded in pushing additional militants across 
the Durand line.'' We need to carefully consider the unintended 
consequences of sending additional troops to Afghanistan, lest we 
further destabilize its nuclear-armed neighbor, Pakistan.

The Afghanistan hearings provided a crucial forum to question 
conventional wisdom, justifying our current and proposed military 
strategy. These expert witnesses have challenged many of the 
assumptions underlying many of the myths I outlined.

In his testimony before the House, Pillar warned that:




 An expanded military effort in the cause of 


 counterinsurgency in Afghanistan would be unwarranted. The 


 benefits in terms of ultimately adding to the safety and 


 security of the American people would be marginal and 


 questionable. At best, the difference such an effort would 


 make in the terrorist threat facing Americans would be 


 slight. At worst, the effort would be counterproductive and 


 would not reduce the threat at all. Even at its best, the 


 benefit would be, in my judgment, outweighed by the probable 


 costs of the counterinsurgency.


There is strong consensus that we must not abandon Afghanistan, and 
the lack of strategy and focus on this region that occurred over the 
past 6 years must not be repeated. But there has also been significant 
agreement among the witnesses that we continue to greatly overestimate 
the potential benefits and underestimate the risks associated with 
maintaining or expanding a large, open-ended military presence.

I urge my colleagues, again, to review this excellent testimony from 
these hearings. We need to reduce our unsustainable military presence 
in Afghanistan in order to pursue al-Qaida without further 
destabilizing the region and work through diplomatic channels and the 
provision of assistance to support the emergence of legitimate, 
competent governments in both countries that will be effective partners 
in fighting terrorism.

I yield the floor.