---
---

# HONORING SEVEN AMERICANS KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN ON DECEMBER 30, 2009
## `0c19855ec338465406fe76230e154c9e`
`Ms. SUTTON — 20 January 2010`

---


Ms. SUTTON. I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the time and for your 
leadership.

Madam Speaker, today I rise in support of H. Res. 1009. Today we are 
honoring the seven members of our intelligence community who were 
tragically killed on December 30 and their colleagues who were injured 
by a suicide bomber at our CIA base in Khost, Afghanistan. In honoring 
these brave men and women, we also seek to express our deep support and 
appreciation to all the civil servants who dedicate their lives to 
protecting our Nation. We mourn the loss of all of these seven brave 
heroes.

Along with the Congresswoman from the 13th District of Ohio, I would 
like to take a moment to reflect on the loss of Scott Roberson, an Ohio 
native who was among those killed in this tragic attack. Scott 
dedicated his life to serving and protecting. He spent many years as a 
police officer before serving with the U.N. Security Forces in Kosovo. 
He also served several tours in Iraq as a security officer before his 
assignment in support of U.S. efforts in Afghanistan.

Members of Scott's family reside in my district. When I had the deep 
honor of attending his memorial service some days ago, as I sat among 
his family and friends, I listened to those who knew him best speak of 
his character and unwavering commitment to protecting the safety and 
security of all Americans. By all accounts, Scott was an exceptional 
person who, along with his selfless colleagues, sacrificed beyond 
measure to protect us.

He left behind a loving wife expecting their first child, a child who 
will know her father through our hero's family and friends and through 
this resolution passed in honor of the service and sacrifice that he 
and his colleagues have given on our behalf and on behalf of our great 
Nation.

For those families who cannot publicly mourn their loss, please know 
that our hearts, our thoughts, and our prayers are with you. And to all 
of the families, know that the sacrifice of your parent, your child, 
your sibling or spouse does not go unrecognized and will not be 
forgotten.