---
---

# None
## `0c198eec8f3c6425154b8b157b5b7c3f`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I am offering this amendment with 
Majority Leader Harry Reid, and Senators Leahy, Dodd, Kerry, Boxer, 
Whitehouse, Kennedy, Harkin, Sanders, Wyden, Schumer, and Durbin. I 
appreciate the support of the Senate Democratic leadership and so many 
of my colleagues for this amendment.

The amendment we are offering is simple--it would require the 
President to safely redeploy U.S. troops from Iraq by June 30, 2008, 
with narrow exceptions. It is very similar to the amendment that we 
offered last month, so I won't take up too much time explaining what it 
does. I do, however, want to explain why the Senate should take up this 
issue again, so soon after we last considered it.

Some of my colleagues like to call Iraq ''the central front in the 
war on terror.'' But they don't spend as much time talking about the 
other areas where al-Qaida and its affiliates are operating, nor do 
they recognize that the administration's singular focus on Iraq is 
depriving those other areas of the attention and resources they need.

Take Afghanistan, for example, where an already weak government is 
grappling with a resurgence of the Taliban and rising instability. 
Reports indicate that there has been a 20 to 25 percent increase in 
Taliban attacks in recent months. Because this administration seems 
blind to the threats to our national security outside of Iraq, 
Afghanistan has been relegated to the back burner for far too long, at 
grave cost to our national security.

Last week, President Bush met with Afghan President Hamid Karzai in 
New York City, on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly opening 
session, but according to news reports he made no mention of the 
Taliban's resurgence. That's a pretty big omission. After all, it was 
the Taliban that supported bin Laden and provided him and his 
associates with sanctuary in the run up to 9/11, and shortly 
thereafter. President Bush was right to take us to war in Afghanistan. 
That was a war focused on those who attacked us on 9/11 and on the 
government that provided a safe haven to al-Qaida.

But with the 2003 invasion of Iraq we have been significantly 
distracted and the war in Afghanistan, once the main show, now has a 
supporting role, at best. As a result, al-Qaida has protected, rebuilt, 
and strengthened its safe haven in the Pakistan-Afghanistan border 
region. You only have to look at the front page of today's Washington 
Post--and see the headline ''Pakistan Losing Fight Against Taliban and 
Al-Qaeda''--to realize how dangerous this situation is to our national 
security.

We have taken our eye off the ball, Mr. President. The war in Iraq 
has shifted our focus and our resources. We are focused on al-Qaida in 
Iraq--an al Qaida affiliate that didn't exist before the war--rather 
than on al-Qaida's safe haven along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.


In Afghanistan, the absence of adequate security and development has 
led to increased disillusionment with the national government, which 
has in turn resulted in increasing civilian support for the re-emerging 
Taliban. It goes without question that the vast majority of Afghans 
have no desire to return to the Taliban era, but the inability of 
President Karzai to extend control outside the capital has meant that 
much of the Afghan population suffers from pervasive fear and 
instability. We may see Afghanistan once again engulfed by chaos, 
lawlessness, and possibly extremism.

As long as Bin Laden and his reconstituted al-Qaida leadership remain 
at large, Afghanistan's future can not be separated from our own 
national security. But with our myopic focus on Iraq--and so many of 
our brave troops stuck in the middle of that misguided war--we have 
lost sight of our priorities. Mr. President, we are attempting to help 
stabilize and develop Afghanistan ''on the cheap,'' and that just isn't 
good enough.

Afghanistan is teetering on the edge. Pockets of insecurity across 
the nation are becoming strongholds for anti-government insurgents who 
are, in turn, exploiting the local population to support their anti-
western agenda. This problem is compounded by the dearth of sufficient 
international ground troops, which has coincided with coalition forces 
using increased air attacks


against insurgents. Those attacks carry a greater risk of civilian 
casualties, undermining our support among the populace. Although the 
majority of attacks on civilians are perpetrated by the Taliban and 
other insurgent groups, the lack of ground troops is seriously 
undermining our efforts in Afghanistan.

We also face instability and insurgent attacks in Iraq, of course. 
But unlike in Iraq, where 165,000 U.S. troops are stuck in a civil war 
that requires a political solution, in Afghanistan we are fighting with 
far fewer troops to protect and advance the political progress of the 
Afghan people. Our troops accomplished their mission in Iraq when they 
took out Saddam Hussein--maintaining a massive troop presence in that 
country just fuels anti-Americanism and serves as a recruitment tool 
for terrorists. We have not accomplished our mission in Afghanistan--
denying a safe haven to those who aided and abetted the 9/11 attacks.

Instead of seeing the big picture--instead of placing Iraq in the 
context of a comprehensive and global campaign against a ruthless 
enemy, al Qaida--this administration persists in the tragic mistake it 
made over 4 years ago when it took the country to war in Iraq. That war 
has led to the deaths of more than 3,700 Americans and perhaps as many 
as 1 million Iraqi civilians. It has deepened instability throughout 
the Middle East, and it has undermined the international support and 
cooperation we need to defeat al-Qaida.


Mr. President, the war in Iraq is not making us safer; it is making 
us more vulnerable. It is stretching our military to the breaking point 
and inflaming tensions and anti-American sentiment in an important and 
volatile part of the world. It is playing into the hands of our 
enemies, as even the State Department recognized when it said that the 
war in Iraq is ''used as a rallying cry for radicalization and 
extremist activity in neighboring countries.''

It would be easy to put all the blame on the administration, but 
Congress is complicit, too. With the Defense appropriations bill before 
us, we have another chance to end our complicity and reverse this 
President's intractable policy. Finally, we can listen to the American 
people, save American lives, and protect our Nation's security by 
redeploying our troops from Iraq.

I understand that some Members of Congress do not want to have this 
debate now, on this bill. They would rather keep the Defense 
Appropriations bill ''clean'' and postpone Iraq debates until we take 
up the supplemental. I respect their views, but I disagree. Like it or 
not, this is, in part, an Iraq bill. It isn't possible to completely 
separate war funding from regular DOD funding, Mr. President. In fact, 
this bill pays for a significant part of our operations in Iraq. It is 
therefore appropriate and responsible that we attach language bringing 
that war to a close.

That is why I am again offering an amendment with Majority Leader 
Harry Reid to effectively bring the war to an end. Our amendment is 
very similar to the amendment we introduced last month to the Defense 
authorization bill. It would require the President to safely redeploy 
U.S. troops from Iraq by June 30, 2008. At that point, with our troops 
safely out of Iraq, funding for the war would be ended, with narrow 
exceptions for troops to do the following: provide security for U.S. 
Government personnel and infrastructure; train the Iraqi Security 
Forces, ISF, and conduct operations against al-Qaida and affiliates.

In order to make clear that our legislation will protect the troops, 
we have specified that nothing in this amendment will prevent U.S. 
troops from receiving the training or equipment they need ''to ensure, 
maintain, or improve their safety and security.'' I hope we won't be 
hearing any more phony arguments about troops on the battlefield 
somehow not getting the supplies they need. It is false, phony, and it 
is a red herring and should not be used on the floor of the Senate.

Passing this amendment will not deny our troops a single bullet or 
meal.

It will simply result in their safe redeployment out of Iraq. When I 
chaired a Judiciary Committee hearing earlier this year on Congress's 
power of the purse, Walter Dellinger of Duke Law School testified about 
my proposal. This is what he said:




 There would not be one penny less for salary for the 


 troops. There would not be one penny less for benefits of the 


 troops. There would not be one penny less for weapons or 


 ammunition. There would not be one penny less for supplies or 


 support. Those troops would simply be redeployed to other 


 areas where the Armed Forces are utilized.


The Feingold-Reid amendment is a safe and responsible use of 
Congress's power of the purse. It is the path we took in 1993 when, in 
the aftermath of the ''Black Hawk Down'' incident, the Senate 
overwhelmingly approved an amendment to the Defense appropriations bill 
that set a funding deadline for U.S. troop deployments in Somalia. 
Seventy-six Senators voted for that amendment, sponsored by the current 
senior Senator from West Virginia. And many of these Senators are still 
in this body, such as Senators Cochran, Domenici, Hutchison, Lugar, 
McConnell, Specter, Stevens, and Warner. They recognized that this was 
an entirely appropriate way to safely redeploy U.S. troops. With their 
support, the amendment was enacted, and the troops came home from 
Somalia before that deadline.

In order to avoid a rule XVI point of order, this amendment is 
slightly different than the version we offered last month. The new 
amendment only covers funds in the 2008 Defense appropriations bill, 
and it omits the first two sections of the old Feingold-Reid amendment 
which required the President to transition the mission and to begin 
redeployment within 90 days. In addition, the exceptions for operations 
against al-Qaida and for training the ISF are less detailed and 
restrictive than they were before. But the intent is the same. After 
consulting with the parliamentarians, we have made these changes to 
ensure we are not blocked from getting a vote. The heart of Feingold-
Reid--the requirement that our troops be redeployed by June 30, 2008--
remains.

Some of my colleagues will oppose this amendment. That is their 
right. But I hope they will not do so on the grounds that we should 
keep the Defense appropriations bill clean, or that a brief debate and 
vote on this amendment will somehow delay that bill. Passing a defense 
spending bill without even discussing the most important national 
defense and national security issue facing our country is simply 
irresponsible. As long as our troops are fighting and dying for a war 
that doesn't make sense, as long as the American people are calling out 
for an end to this tragedy, as long as the administration and its 
supporters press ahead with their misguided strategy, we have a 
responsibility to debate and vote on this issue again and again and 
again.

By enacting Feingold-Reid, we can refocus on our top national 
security priority--waging a global campaign against al-Qaida and its 
affiliates. We can refocus on developing a comprehensive strategy for 
dealing with deteriorating conditions in Afghanistan that link together 
the policies and programs needed to establish a viable state there, and 
we can focus on the other areas around the world, from North Africa to 
Southeast Asia, where al-Qaida and its affiliates are operating.

The war in Iraq is the wrong war. It is overstretching our military 
and undermining our national security. It is time for the war to end. I 
urge my colleagues to support the Feingold-Reid amendment.

Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on my amendment.