# TRIBUTE TO NEW JERSEY PEACE ACTION
## `0c1d7fe61d408516a72d56c56a1a0459`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 8 May 2007`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker; I would like to call your attention to 
the work of an outstanding organization, New Jersey Peace Action, which 
will celebrate 50 years of activism in New Jersey at an anniversary 
reception on Sunday, May 6, 2007.

It is only fitting that New Jersey Peace Action be honored in this, 
the permanent record of the greatest democracy ever known, for the very 
purpose of this organization is to help educate and engage New Jersey 
residents in the community and political activism. Their work helps 
Americans become informed and active in the democratic process.

New Jersey Peace Action began as NJ SANE in 1957. That year the New 
York Times ran the headline ''We are facing a danger unlike any danger 
that has ever existed before,'' calling for an end to nuclear testing 
and asking Americans to redirect our energies, rediscover our moral 
strength and redefine our purpose. The National Committee for a SANE 
Nuclear Policy was formed, and its New Jersey signers became the base 
of NJ SANE. The following year, NJ SANE selected Dorothy Eldridge as 
chairperson. NJ local committees echoed National SANE campaign to end 
nuclear testing by exposing facts about radiation, and assumed a role 
as watchdog on an international crisis that threatened nuclear war.

By 1960, NJ SANE had gained wide support. At four rallies they 
sponsored about ''Ending All Nuclear Theats--Our Best Chance for 
Peace,'' with Dr. Linus Pauling, they drew crowds of between 600 and 
1000 people. In the next decade, the growth continued. Over 5,000 
marchers took part in a 110-mile walk from McGuire Air Force Base to 
the UN to call for a permanent test-ban agreement with the USSR. NJ 
SANE campaigned to expose the true nature of nuclear war and end civil 
defense drills in schools. They worked to support President Kennedy's 
efforts toward a test-ban treaty, and when it was signed, continued 
opposition to drills in schools. Soon came the 1970s and efforts were 
turned to the crisis in Vietnam, and the group opened its first real 
office. Members marched on Washington, raised money for war-injured 
children in Vietnam, and began draft counseling in addition to other 
efforts. In 1975, NJ SANE successfully campaigned against President 
Ford's request for $522 million for the Indochina War. Soon Operation 
Transfer, a campaign to change national priorities, took off and NJ 
SANE supported two new coalitions, SEA Alliance and NJ Mobilization for 
Survival.

As we entered the 1980s new issues emerged and NJ SANE remained on 
the front lines for peace. SANE responded to Iran and Afghanistan with 
a call to reason, emphasizing the development of safe renewable energy 
sources as alternatives to oil dependency. Nuclear freeze efforts 
strengthened, and the group became involved in issues concerning 
Central America. In 1986, SANE merged with the Nuclear Weapons Freeze 
locally and nationally. As we entered the 1990s, more issues arose and 
S/F was there to face them. There were rallies against the Gulf War, 
focus turned to economic issues, and the first concert for peace was 
held. In 1992, NJ SANE/Freeze became NJ Peace Action for a Sane World. 
In 1997 Virginia Ahearn and Bob Bender became Co-Directors, and 
Virginia continued on to be Director.


Soon NJ Peace Action entered the new millennium, with a new Director, 
Madelyn Hoffman. Right after September 11, 2001, NJ Peace Action began 
holding vigils, more than 100 of them, in 12 different locations in 
support of addressing the attacks through international law rather than 
military action. The focus soon became opposition to the Iraq War. NJPA 
participated in the largest anti-war demonstrations since the Vietnam 
years. Memorials were held for the dead in Iraq, and a Peace Education 
Workshop was held for families.

Although some of the causes have changed throughout the years, a 
surprising number are still left to work for. The members of NJPA today 
are still working to eliminate nuclear weapons, and protect civil 
rights. They promote peaceful conflict resolution at all levels, and 
educate others in their communities by reaching out to them at 
community events, working closely with other groups to protest war and 
work for peace.

The job of a United States Congressman involves much that is 
rewarding, yet nothing compares to learning about and recognizing the 
efforts of groups like New Jersey Peace Action.

Madam Speaker, I ask that you join our colleagues, the members of the 
New Jersey Peace Action, all those who have been informed and motivated 
by their work, and me in recognizing the outstanding contributions of 
this group to not only New Jersey but our entire Nation.



