---
---

# SERGEANT MATTHEW L. INGRAM POST OFFICE
## `0c51e08e86ce88ba17dcd789d597f322`
`Mr. LYNCH — 13 January 2010`

---


Mr. LYNCH. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

As chairman of the House subcommittee with jurisdiction over the 
United States Postal Service, I am pleased to present H.R. 4139 for 
consideration. This legislation will designate the United States Postal 
Service facility located at 7464 Highway 503 in Hickory, Mississippi, 
as the ''Sergeant Matthew L. Ingram Post Office.''

H.R. 4139 was introduced by my colleague Representative Gregg Harper 
of Mississippi on November 19, 2009, and reported out of the Oversight 
and Government Reform Committee on December 10, 2009, by a voice vote. 
In addition, the legislation enjoys the support of the entire 
Mississippi House delegation.

A native of Pearl, Mississippi, Sergeant Ingram was serving in 
support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan as a proud member 
of the 2nd Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 
4th Infantry Division out of Fort Carson, Colorado. Regrettably, 
Sergeant Ingram was killed in action in Kunar province, Afghanistan on 
August, 21, 2009, after an improvised explosive device detonated near 
his vehicle and his unit came under small arms fire from enemy forces. 
Sergeant Ingram was 25 years old at the time of his death.

Following his graduation from Newton County High School in Decatur, 
Mississippi, Sergeant Ingram enlisted in the United States Army in 2003 
to fulfill his lifelong goal of serving his country. One year later, 
Sergeant Ingram was deployed to Iraq and served two tours of duty, with 
distinction, in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom from 2004 to 2005 
and from 2006 to 2007. In recognition of his exemplary service, 
Sergeant Ingram received an Army Commendation Medal, an honor bestowed 
on soldiers who distinguish themselves through heroism, meritorious 
achievement, or meritorious service.

On May 26, 2009, Sergeant Ingram began a tour of duty in Afghanistan 
in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and remained in service to his 
country until his passing on August 21 of last year.

Madam Speaker, those that were fortunate enough to know Sergeant 
Matthew Ingram remember him as a loyal, hardworking, and positive young 
man whose dedication to serving his country was only surpassed by his 
devotion to his loving family. In the words of his loving father, 
James, Sergeant Matthew Ingram was a ''mighty good man.''

As noted by his beloved wife, Holly, Sergeant Ingram was a soldier at 
heart, whose service in the United States Army afforded him the 
opportunity to do exactly what he loved to do. However, Sergeant Ingram 
always considered being a good dad to his daughter, Chloe, now over 1 
year old, as his most important mission in life. ''He loved his baby 
and would do anything for her,'' recalled Holly Ingram upon her 
husband's passing.

Similarly, Sergeant Ingram's classmates and teachers at his alma 
mater, Newton County High School, remember their fallen friend as a 
dedicated and courageous young man.



As noted by Sergeant Ingram's former teacher, Sue Geter, I am very 
honored to have taught him. And the fact that he gave the ultimate 
price is something I am proud of, that I had an opportunity to teach 
him.

Madam Speaker, the life of Sergeant Matthew L. Ingram stands as a 
testament to the courage and dedication of all our brave servicemen and 
women who have made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our Nation. 
Let us pay tribute to the life and service of Sergeant Matthew L. 
Ingram through the passage of this legislation, H.R. 4139, to designate 
the Hickory, Mississippi, postal facility in his honor. I urge all of 
my colleagues to join us in supporting H.R. 4139.

I reserve the balance of my time.