# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `0c56010631a6899b45de70a09129f43b`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. LEVIN. I thank my friend.

So now General McChrystal himself talks about the value of a policy 
debate. Here is what he said in the article in the New York Times: He 
welcomes alternative proposals for how to stabilize Afghanistan and 
Pakistan. Then he says: ''This is the right kind of process.'' He says: 
''I have been given the opportunity to provide my input to the 
decision.''

So we have this internal deliberation going on in the White House, 
which I think we would all agree is a matter of supreme importance; 
that is, whether we put troops in harm's way, and how many, what is the 
strategy they are following, what is their mission. That is the most 
important decision I believe a President of the United States can make. 
It should be a deliberative decision. It is going to be a deliberative 
decision. This President has made it clear.

There was a March strategy, but there are a number of things that 
have changed since March, including an election where there are 
significant allegations of fraud. When such an election takes place, 
that lowers the support of the people of Afghanistan for a strategy 
which involves them. They must succeed. It is the people of Afghanistan 
who have to succeed. It is the Army of Afghanistan that has to succeed. 
It is the police in Afghanistan. It is the civil administration which 
must succeed in Afghanistan.

If there is this question about an election which then might impact 
the support of the people for the very policies in Afghanistan, the 
institutions that need to be fought for, that could change things. 
There are events in Pakistan. The Pakistani Government is doing a lot 
better relative to some of the threats they face. That can make a 
change. But the President of the United States is committed to 
reviewing what has happened since March, to see whether that strategy 
still applies or whether he wishes to change that strategy. It is a 
debate General McChrystal himself has said is warranted. There are a 
number of differences between the amendment which I am going to be 
offering and the pending amendment of Senator McCain.

Madam President, I think we now have a unanimous consent agreement 
which has been cleared. I ask unanimous consent that amendment numbers 
2593, which is the Levin amendment, and 2575, which is the McCain 
amendment, be debated concurrently for a period of 30 minutes, with the 
time equally divided and controlled between Senators Levin and McCain 
or their designees; that no amendments be in order to either amendment 
prior to a vote in relation thereto; that the vote sequence be as the 
amendments are listed above; further, that once this agreement is 
entered, Senator Levin be recognized to call up amendment 2593; and 
that prior to the second vote in the sequence, there be 2 minutes, 
equally divided and controlled, prior to each vote, with the second 
vote 10 minutes in duration; and that the votes in relation to the 
amendments be at 2 p.m. today; provided further that following this 
debate, the amendments be set aside until 2 p.m.