---
---

# None
## `0c59e9a6d11d735ea46d640ee693d5e8`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 27 September 2007`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, I am proud to cosponsor Senator Biden's 
amendment calling on the United States to actively support a Federal 
system of government in Iraq.

The brutal reality is that Iraq today is being torn apart by 
sectarian violence. The Maliki government in Baghdad is too weak and 
too corrupt to lead Iraq's Sunni, Shia and Kurdish communities to the 
political reconciliation they need to end the fighting. Iraq is being 
torn apart by civil war, and U.S. military forces are caught in the 
middle.

It is clear to me that President Bush has no strategy for ending the 
war in Iraq. It is up to Congress to provide the way forward to bring 
stability to Iraq and to bring our troops home. Our military has done 
everything we have asked them to do, valiantly and skillfully. But the 
experts all agree: there is no military solution in Iraq. We need a 
comprehensive political settlement that gives the Iraqi people control 
over their own fate and allows our troops to come home.

Senator Biden has proposed a plan to maintain a united Iraq by 
decentralizing it. Rather than putting our troops between warring 
factions, this plan would give the Kurds, Sunni and Shia control over 
their own land and people, while leaving a central government in 
Baghdad responsible for protecting common national Iraqi interests. 
This plan has five major parts.

Step one is establishing three autonomous regions in Iraq with a 
functional central government in Baghdad. Each region would have 
authority over its own domestic laws, administration, and internal 
security. The central government would control border defense, foreign 
policy, and oil revenues. This would give Iraq's sectarian groups 
control over their own destiny and ensure that Iraq does not splinter 
into pieces, creating regional chaos.

Step two of the Biden plan is to secure the cooperation of Iraq's 
Sunni minority. The Sunni Arabs in Iraq do not have access to the same 
oil wealth enjoyed by the Kurds in the north and the Shia in the south. 
Under this plan, Iraq's central Government would guarantee the Sunni's 
economic viability


by pledging 20-percent of Iraq's oil revenue. It would address Sunni 
political concerns by allowing former members of the Baath party to 
join Iraq's national Government. Iraq's Sunnis must have confidence 
that they can prosper and thrive in a peaceful Iraq, so they will lay 
down their arms and end their destructive insurgency.

Step three of this plan is to call on the international community and 
Iraq's neighbors to help stabilize Iraq by accepting this federal 
arrangement and respecting Iraq's borders and sovereignty. Iraq will 
need strong support from the international community to ensure that its 
neighbors do not try to expand their influence into any of the three 
autonomous regions created under this federalist system.

Step four calls for the withdrawal of most U.S. military forces from 
Iraq. We would leave a small but effective residual force behind to 
help Iraq's security forces combat terrorism and protect Iraq's 
borders, but most U.S. forces would be out of Iraq before the end of 
2008. We know there is no military solution to Iraq's current problems, 
and we know the armed militias that are tearing Iraq apart will never 
lay down their arms as long as the U.S. military has a large presence 
in their country. Withdrawing most U.S. troops will demonstrate to the 
Iraqi people that they must take responsibility for building a 
peaceful, stable Iraq. A small but lethal contingent of U.S. forces 
that remains either in Iraq or nearby can help the Iraqis combat 
terrorism and deter mischief by Iraq's neighbors.

Finally, the Biden plan calls for robust international support for 
reconstruction in Iraq. This economic assistance must be conditioned on 
respect for minority and women's rights. The international community 
has an interest in seeing a vital, healthy Iraq, but we should use our 
resources to help Iraq build a society based on equality for all. By 
providing economic opportunities for every Iraqi, we can help end the 
violence and build a strong, stable Iraq.

We know that President Bush has no plan for stabilizing Iraq or 
ending the war. The Biden plan can lead to a lasting political solution 
in Iraq that stops the violence and allows our military forces to come 
home. I am proud to support it, and I am proud to cosponsor this 
amendment.