---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `0c785c27011ea5290a96a3ed6b1a052c`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 1 February 2007`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I rise to speak in support of a bill 
that I am introducing today, the Combating Money Laundering and 
Terrorist Financing Act of 2007.

The life-blood of any criminal organization or enterprise is money. 
Whether engaged in drug dealing or terrorism, criminals cannot operate 
without money. The targeting of efforts by criminals to hide 
illegitimate funds in legitimate financial institutions has long been a 
focus of law enforcement.


Yet like all other aspects of criminal activity, money laundering 
continues to evolve into newer and more complex forms. This is 
particularly true in the funding of terrorist organizations and 
operations. Therefore, money laundering remains not only a criminal 
racket but also poses a grave threat to our national security.

Tracking how terrorists obtain, store, and move illicit funds is 
among the most critical aspects of stopping their efforts. Among its 
recommendations, the 9/11 Commission report stated that, ''Vigorous 
efforts to track terrorist financing must remain front and center in 
the U.S. counterterrorism efforts.'' We have made some significant 
strides in identifying how terrorists accumulate and move money, but 
more remains to be done. Terrorists and criminal networks continually 
evolve new ways of using legitimate means to launder illegally obtained 
funds. We must not underestimate the intelligence or resolve of these 
groups. Many have already utilized loopholes in current law to hide 
funds or circumvent required reporting to U.S. Customs officials.

Work must continue so that terrorists and other criminals are left 
without the ability to hide illegally obtained funds inside or in 
concert with legitimate means. We should commit to increasing pressure 
on these organizations to make money laundering as difficult and 
unprofitable as possible. And ultimately, we must give law enforcement 
and prosecutors the ability to effectively deal with criminals' ever-
changing tactics.

The legislation that I am introducing today will strengthen our 
current money laundering statutes by streamlining those laws, closing 
those loopholes in the laws exploited by criminal organizations, and 
creating more efficient means for dealing with violators of money 
laundering laws. My bill goes about doing this in several ways.

First, my bill deals with the problem of ''specified unlawful 
activities'' or ''SUAs.'' SUAs are predicate offenses required for 
current money laundering statutes to apply, and there are currently 
over 200 of them. As criminals continue to change methods of laundering 
money, the list of SUAs will continue to grow. This legislation will 
prevent criminals from turning to other means not designated as an SUA, 
and will consolidate the ever growing list of SUAs by including all 
federal and state offenses punishable by imprisonment for more than one 
year. Also, criminals will no longer be able to hide behind borders, as 
this legislation would subject violations in foreign countries that 
have an effect on the U.S. to the same penalties as if they had 
occurred in the United States.

Currently, most circuit courts must charge each violation of money 
laundering statutes separately. My bill will allow, at the election of 
the government, prosecutors to charge multiple acts under one count in 
an indictment. This will significantly reduce the time and expense 
incurred by the courts in these cases, versus the current method of 
charging each and every violation separately.


Criminals have realized that the movement of large sums of money 
through traditional financial institutions will result in increased 
scrutiny and investigation. Therefore, many have turned to smuggling 
large quantities of money via a courier or bulk cash smuggling. They 
have developed techniques to avoid having to declare property with a 
value greater than $10,000 and to protect those couriers who are 
caught. My legislation will remove the criminal's ability to get around 
current laws, and remove protections for the smuggler.

For example, current law requires that couriers know specifics about 
the illegal activities that produced the monies they carry before they 
may be prosecuted under money laundering statutes. As a result, many 
claim ignorance about the illegal origins of the money and are 
released. With my bill, couriers will now be held responsible for their 
actions, even if they try to claim ignorance. Therefore, law 
enforcement can get both the courier and the money off the street. This 
bill also would stiffen the penalty for bulk cash smuggling to 10 
years.

Another tactic now being used by criminals is to have couriers carry 
blank checks in bearer form. The couriers argue that the check has no 
amount, so it is not subject to declaration. Once the courier arrives 
at his destination, he merely has to fill in the amount, whatever it 
may be. My legislation would remove this loophole by setting the value 
of any blank check in bearer form equal to the highest amount in that 
account during the time period it was being transported, or when it is 
cashed.

My bill also seeks to mitigate the tactics of ''commingling funds'' 
and ''structured transactions.'' The ''commingling funds'' tactic 
involves depositing illegal money in an account with legitimate funds. 
Under current law, criminals can argue that money withdrawn from the 
account was from the legitimate sources. The language in this bill 
would clarify that transactions on accounts containing more than 
$10,000 in illegally obtained funds will be considered a transaction 
involving more than $10,000 in criminally derived property, regardless 
of how the other money in the account was obtained. Nor will criminals 
be allowed to avoid the law by structuring smaller transactions below 
the $10,000 reporting requirement. Under my bill, individual but 
related transactions will be considered at their aggregate value.

Finally, this bill will provide the United States Secret Service with 
the legislative and financial resources it needs to combat 
counterfeiters and other criminals seeking to harm our financial 
systems. The U.S. Federal Reserve Note is the most identifiable 
currency in the world and the backbone of many other nations' 
economies. To help ensure continued stability of the Greenback 
worldwide, my bill will make illegal the possession of any materials 
used to make counterfeit currency. This is necessary because technology 
has evolved far beyond the old days of printing plates, stones, and 
digital images. Like the evolving tactics used by those in money 
laundering operations, the counterfeiter constantly changes his tactics 
and technologies. Furthermore, the crime of counterfeiting is becoming 
more and more international in scope every day. The Secret Service has 
identified counterfeiting operations in Colombia, Nigeria, Italy, Iraq, 
and North Korea. This is apparent in the use of bleached notes. 
Bleached notes are simply bills with low denominations being bleached 
with chemicals. This produces a blank canvas of genuine currency paper 
for counterfeiters to work with, to which they can add higher 
denominations. My bill will make it illegal to possess these bleached 
or otherwise altered notes, and give the Secret Service the 
authorization it needs to pursue these criminals outside the United 
States.

Additionally, this bill gives the Secret Service the authorization to 
use funds seized from criminals to pay for ongoing undercover 
investigations. This seems like common sense, and indeed, every other 
federal investigative agency has this authority. Tasked with protecting 
our financial systems, the Secret Service should be provided with all 
the resources necessary to fund its undercover operations. This makes 
even more sense, considering it's the criminals themselves who would be 
paying those bills. My bill provides that authority to the Secret 
Service and will allow them to continue the important work of 
protecting our financial infrastructure.

As I said, money is essential for the operation of any criminal or 
terrorist organization. The ability to get, move, and hide these funds 
is critical to the operations of both. We have had some success in 
thwarting this ability, as is evident by the constantly changing 
techniques for laundering money. We must continue to apply pressure on 
these groups, and do everything we can to identify and stop their 
financing operations. This bill is designed to do just that, and put 
these organizations out of business for good. I urge my colleagues to 
join me and my cosponsors, Senators Kyl, Cornyn, and Graham, in 
supporting this legislation to combat the financing of criminal and 
terrorist activities.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of this bill be 
printed in the Record.