---
---

# IRAQ SUPPLEMENTAL
## `0c818c1bf51a074c2dfd6df4361a4aa6`
`Mr. SHELBY — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I rise today to speak on the amendment of 
Senator Cochran, the amendment to strike the language, of which I am a 
cosponsor. I raised this in the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense 
last week. Senator Cochran indicated then that he would do as he has 
done; that is, to move to strike the language in the supplemental 
requiring the phased withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq in 120 days, 4 
months--120 days.

Mr. President, as you heard--and you have been a party to--4 months 
is clearly not enough time for General Petraeus or the brave members of 
our Armed Forces to have a chance to see if a surge in troop numbers 
could turn the war. I don't know for sure. I had, as a lot of us did, a 
conversation with General Petraeus before he took command about the 
troop surge, about the 20,000 troops. I personally think we need 
100,000 troops, but we don't have them. General Petraeus is a very 
smart man. He is a combat soldier. He is in control. I believe to put 
on an arbitrary timeline of 120 days is the wrong message at the wrong 
time, where they are beginning--just beginning--to secure some 
neighborhoods. Will they continue to do this? We hope so. But we should 
bring every bit of stability we can to the Baghdad area.

I have no illusion about sooner or later coming home. I would like to 
see our troops come home. I don't think that will be the end of the 
struggle


with Islamic fundamentalists by any stretch of the imagination, but I 
think if we are able to stabilize that area of Iraq to some degree, 
perhaps there can be some kind of diplomatic resolution because 
ultimately none of us ever envisioned staying in Iraq. We have been 
there 4 years. I wish we were not there today, but we are and we are 
heavily engaged.

I think we need to give our Armed Forces every opportunity to 
succeed. We should not send an ambiguous message to them: We are going 
to support you today and tomorrow we want you to withdraw, in 120 days, 
or begin to withdraw. I think that is the wrong message, and I think it 
would undermine the morale of our troops.

Congress should not be armchair generals. We should not try to 
micromanage what is going on on the ground. That is why I support the 
Cochran amendment. We need to give our commanders and our soldiers 
every chance to succeed in Iraq, to bring stability there, where 
diplomatic maneuvers then perhaps could begin to work. Sending 
ambiguous messages to our Armed Forces is not the right way. They need 
our support both morally and materially. I believe at the end of the 
day they are going to get it.

The President has already signaled if this language were to stay he 
would veto this bill. I believe what he says he is going to do. But we 
can strike this language today. We can move on and get this 
supplemental passed to make sure our troops are well funded and that 
they have what they need to succeed. And they will succeed.

The members of our Armed Forces are in harm's way every day. We know 
the horror stories about war. But they bravely face a sometimes unknown 
enemy and have done everything asked of them--sometimes two and three 
times, Mr. President, as you well know. Micromanaging the war from the 
Halls of Congress is not the right thing to do.

I urge my colleagues to support the Cochran amendment and strike this 
language from the supplemental bill.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.