---
---

# RECONSTRUCTION AND STABILIZATION CIVILIAN MANAGEMENT ACT OF 2008
## `0c8b883fa28457ea9926f56062d0faeb`
`Mrs. DAVIS of California — 5 March 2008`

---


Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H.R. 1084. In today's security environment, it is absolutely 
essential that we authorize the creation of the Response Readiness 
Corps and Response Readiness Reserve within the State Department and 
USAID. This legislation is a vital step toward achieving a proper 
balance between civilian and military efforts in stabilization and 
reconstruction missions.

Iraq and Afghanistan have really highlighted a need for better 
interagency coordination and a more robust civilian capacity. As 
someone who went to Iraq early and saw a void of adequate civilian 
support, I know that we need to improve the civilian apparatus for 
future stability in reconstruction efforts. In Iraq and Afghanistan, we 
have relied on the military to act as diplomats, help build government 
capacity and conduct combat missions, all at the same time.

Simply put, stability and reconstruction have fallen too heavily on 
our military in recent years. Unable to tap into a viable, full-scale 
deployable civilian force, our great men and women have been asked to 
perform jobs outside of their area of expertise. Congress must, must do 
a better job of marshalling all elements of national power in support 
of U.S. goals abroad and ensure that future missions are not military-
centric, but joint interagency efforts. Part of this effort must be 
greater capacity within civilian agencies, a bench to pull from when 
contingencies arise. This legislation by my friend from California will 
help do just that.

Congress must also be thinking about how to capture the skills and 
lessons learned from military personnel and civilians who have served 
on PRTs or other interagency projects in Iraq and Afghanistan. These 
individuals now have vital skills that could be used to help train 
Federal civilian employees deploying to zones of conflict.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1084 gets us on the right path, and I encourage all 
of my colleagues to support this legislation.