# None
## `0c8e2eaefa6340ca683f73704798a373`
`Mr. DURBIN — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. I say to the majority leader, for those who are trying to 
follow this debate and are not familiar with a cloture motion, what a 
cloture motion means is that those who are opposing a vote on an issue 
delay it as long as possible and then try to create a higher vote total 
that you need to bring this amendment to passage or defeat. So it is a 
delay tactic to slow down the Senate, slow down deliberation.

Today, when the Democratic majority leader offered to the Republicans 
that we would call up Senator Webb's amendment to make sure our troops 
are rested and ready before they go into battle and allow Senator 
Graham, a Republican Senator, to have his similar amendment up at the 
same time with the same vote, it was rejected. The Republicans rejected 
it. Then one of the Senators came to the floor and said that is the way 
it has always been around here. It has always been this way, this is 
not unusual. It takes 60 votes to agree to these amendments. Now we 
know what it is going to take.

We did a little research, I might say to the majority leader. We 
looked at the last two Defense authorization bills which were called up 
and considered in this Senate. Not a single amendment required a 
cloture vote, required this delay tactic, required the 60-vote margin, 
even those amendments specifically relating to the war in Iraq. What 
the Republican leadership is doing now has not happened in the last 2 
years on this same bill. They have come up with a new slowdown, a new 
delay tactic, a new obstacle they have tossed in our path.

I think it is very clear. The Senator from Nevada will recall that 
the last time the Defense authorization bill was up, there were two 
very important amendments on the war on Iraq, one by Senator Kerry of 
Massachusetts and another by Senators Levin and Reed. Both related to 
when the troops would come home. In each instance, cloture was not 
necessary, 60 votes were not required; the amendments were called on a 
simple majority vote.

