---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO HOUSE AMENDMENT TO  SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2764, CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `0ca4da32783f7f956159d4801697caad`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

First, let me just respond to the gentleman from Texas by saying he 
is entitled to his own opinions, but he is not entitled to make up the 
facts. The facts are that the difference between this Congress under 
the Democratic majority and under the previous Congress under the 
Republican majority is they left Washington before their work was done. 
They kicked all their work onto the Democratic Congress that was 
elected last November. They didn't do their job. If the Congress could 
be sued for malpractice, they would have been sued for malpractice.

The bills that we are dealing with today the House of Representatives 
passed in a timely manner, all of the appropriations bills, as we were 
supposed to do. We did it, and they were good bills, and I commend 
Chairman Obey for his work on those bills. We did that in spite of all 
the obstructionism and resistance from the Republicans in this House.

Unfortunately, because of the Senate rules, an individual Member, and 
in the case of the Senate, the Senate minority leader, was successful 
in slowing down the process and preventing conference committees from 
meeting and preventing the Senate from considering certain bills. Now 
they can be proud of that. That is just obstructionism. That is not 
doing the people's business. But the bottom line is that we are here 
today dealing with an omnibus appropriations bill to get the people's 
business done; not to kick the ball down the field and dump it on next 
year's Congress. It is to do it now.

One other thing, Madam Speaker, and that is one of the major 
differences with the new Democratic majority is that we have helped 
undo some of the damage that the Republicans have done to domestic 
spending over the years. Because of the Democratic majority and our 
ability to reorder priority, education is better off today than it 
would be if the Republicans were in control. Medical research, there is 
more money for medical research to find lifesaving drugs and to find 
cures to disease because the Democrats made that a priority, over the 
Republican objections. Our veterans are getting a better deal today. 
Under the Democratic majority, there is the largest single-year 
increase in veterans health in the history of the Veterans 
Administration. Those are the things that we have done.

Today, we are considering a Senate addition to what we did in the 
House, which I have an objection to, and that is the funding for the 
war in Iraq. The Republicans, while they were in control, gave the 
President a blank check; no accountability, no questions asked, 
nothing. And here we are, the fifth year into this war, with no end in 
sight, and there are some of us who believe the time has come to call 
the President to account, to start the process of bringing our troops 
home so they can be reunited with their families.

So there's a huge difference between the Democrats and the 
Republicans.

Madam Speaker, at this time I would like to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from North Carolina, Mr. Etheridge.