---
---

# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `0cab13e5fe29d859d2618217f5be0abf`
`Mr. CASEY — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, today, I rise to convey my growing 
concern--and I think the American people share this concern--on an 
issue that the three major television networks' evening newscasts 
devoted just 46 minutes of coverage to so far this year: The war in 
Afghanistan.

The White House has become distracted and weighed down by the war in 
Iraq. It has knowingly ignored dealing with the real threats that 
endanger American interests. It is time now to refocus our efforts and 
concentrate on the real front in the war on terror, and it is time to 
get serious about winning in Afghanistan.

The United States has one overarching priority when it comes to this 
region: to ensure that al-Qaida or any other terrorist group does not 
gain the sanctuary it requires to plot, plan, or train for another 
terrorist attack on American soil or against our allies.

However, despite some 62,000 NATO troops in Afghanistan, including 
approximately 34,000 American forces, and more than 140,000 Afghan 
troops and police, Taliban and al-Qaida forces have regrouped and 
become stronger over the past 2 years. Finding sanctuary in the 
southern and eastern parts of the country and along the border with 
Pakistan, Taliban and pro-al-Qaida forces are threatening to undermine 
hard-fought international efforts to bring stability and peace to 
Afghanistan.

The assessment from our top experts in the field is bleak. Retired 
General James L. Jones, who until the summer of 2006 served as the 
supreme allied commander of NATO, found in one report that:




 NATO is not winning in Afghanistan. . . Afghanistan remains 


 a failing state. It could become a failed state.


2007 was the deadliest year since the fall of the Taliban, with over 
6,000 people killed. Violence continues in 2008. Secretary Gates 
reported in May that for the first time, more coalition troops were 
killed in a month's fighting in Afghanistan than in Iraq.

As of this week, at least 451 members of the U.S. military have died 
in Afghanistan, including at least 20 from my home State of 
Pennsylvania. Overall, violence has risen 27 percent in Afghanistan in 
the past year, with a 39-percent increase in attacks in the eastern 
region--where most U.S. troops operate--and a 60-percent surge in 
Helmand province, where the Taliban resurgence has been the greatest. 
Suicide bombings rose to 140 in 2007, compared with 5 between 2001 and 
2005.

The news in recent days has also been especially troubling. Over the 
weekend, militants operating in sanctuaries in Pakistan launched rocket 
and artillery attacks into Afghanistan killing four Afghan civilians, 
including two children. NATO forces, whose patience has been repeatedly 
tested by escalating insurgent violence along the Afghan-Pakistani 
border, have since retaliated by shelling guerrillas along the 
Pakistani border.

Last week, hundreds of NATO and Afghan forces engaged in one of their 
biggest battles in years against approximately 400 Taliban fighters in 
Kandahar. These fighters had bombed the main city jail and freed 
hundreds of their comrades. One report says that those who have been 
freed are among the most dangerous.

These setbacks emerged as the Government Accountability Office, GAO, 
released its latest report concluding that despite spending $16.5 
billion, the Pentagon and State Department still lack a ''sustainable 
strategy'' for developing the Afghan National Security Forces. Only two 
of the Afghan Army's 105 units are fully capable of fulfilling their 
mission. No police unit is fully capable. Today, I sent a letter to 
Secretary Gates and Secretary Rice asking for answers on why our 
progress in building Afghanistan's security forces is so stunted.

I ask unanimous consent that this letter be printed in the Record.