# TAX ON BONUSES RECEIVED FROM CERTAIN TARP RECIPIENTS
## `0cae901414e91b9b278ebabf03d06294`
`Mr. DORGAN — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, let me just make a point. This is an 
authorization bill that is on the floor, the FAA reauthorization. We 
have waited a long time to get it here. We have had 11 extensions to 
get this bill to the floor.

The Senator who offers the amendment certainly is allowed to offer it 
on this bill. Of course, his amendment really doesn't relate to passing 
an FAA reauthorization bill, so I hope he will withhold at some point 
and do this at another moment on another piece of legislation because I 
fear that--at long last, trying to get an FAA reauthorization bill 3 
years after it previously expired, with 11 different extensions, my 
hope is we can stay on the FAA reauthorization, have amendments that 
relate to this bill, debate them, and then vote on those amendments. 
That would be my hope.

I understand the Senator has a right to do that. Somebody could bring 
an amendment on abortion or whatever somebody wants to the floor of the 
Senate on an open authorization bill. The Senator has had two other 
opportunities to offer this. I hope he will find a third at some point.

The budget deficit is a very serious problem. We are on an 
unsustainable path. Let me give just a slightly different observation 
on the subject as long as I am on my feet.

It is true that 10 years ago our country was running a budget 
surplus. It is true that 10 years ago we had a budget surplus. It is 
also the case that when President George W. Bush came to town, he said: 
You know what, we have a budget surplus. Alan Greenspan is not going to 
sleep at night, he said, because he worried that the surplus was going 
to pay down the Federal debt too fast. He literally said that. He 
worried about paying down the Federal debt too fast, so we need to be a 
little careful about accruing these surpluses. So President Bush said: 
What we need to do is have a very large tax cut.

I stood here on this floor of the Senate and said: You know what, 
these surpluses exist this year only and the next 10 years of projected 
surpluses don't yet exist. They are simply projections. Let's be a bit 
conservative. What if something happens?

They said: ''Katy, bar the door,'' we are going to do this anyway, 
and did it--very large tax cuts, very substantial reductions in Federal 
revenue. About 50 percent of the structural budget deficit at the 
moment is as a result of reducing the revenue base 10 years ago--9 
years ago.

I said on the floor of the Senate: You know, let's be a little 
conservative. What if something happens?

Well, guess what happened almost immediately. We passed the tax 
cuts--not with my vote--the majority of which, the bulk of which went 
to the wealthiest Americans. Very quickly, we discovered we were in a 
recession. Very quickly, there was an attack on our country on 9/11. 
Then we were in a war in Afghanistan and then a war in Iraq. We sent 
young men and women off to war and did not pay for one penny of it--not 
a penny. So we cut the revenue base very substantially. We experienced 
a recession, an attack against our country, engaged in two wars, sent 
men and women to other parts of the world to fight, and did not pay for 
a penny of it. We added it all to the debt and increased deficits.

I happen to think the Senator's presentation about the danger of the 
deficits is very real. I agree with that. But in order to reduce these 
deficits--this is not rocket science--if we are going to send young men 
and women to Afghanistan to risk their lives, if they are going to get 
up this morning and put on body armor because they are going to face 
real live bullets, pay for every bit of it. Pay for it. Let's ask the 
American people to sacrifice, not just the soldiers. We are going to 
cut spending? Then let's really cut spending.

I offered an amendment on the floor and lost it. I said: Let's cut TV 
Marti. I couldn't get it passed. TV Marti broadcasts signals into Cuba, 
spends $/1/4/ billion broadcasting television signals into Cuba that 
the Cuban people can't see. From 3 in the morning until 7 in the 
morning, we spend taxpayers' dollars broadcasting television signals 
into Cuba that Cuba blocks and the Cuban people can't see. We spent 
$/1/4/ billion, and we can't cut the spending? I don't understand that 
at all.

The prescription drug amendment I offered on the floor of the Senate 
would have saved the Federal Government $20 billion in spending, and I 
lost it.

If we are going to cut the deficit, we have to cut real things. When 
those things come to the floor and we have an opportunity to really cut 
spending, let's do that.

By the way, it is not just spending. We need to work on spending, and 
I have offered amendments to cut spending, but it is also the revenues. 
I hope the Senator would agree with me that when the richest--well, let 
me rephrase that. When the person in America in 2008 who made the 
highest income--$3.6 billion running a hedge fund--when that person 
pays the lowest income tax rate, would the Senator agree with me that 
perhaps we ought to increase that rate?

This person comes home, and his spouse says: Honey, how are we doing?

He says: Well, pretty good--$3.6 billion.

That is $300 million a month; that is $10 million a day. Honey, how 
we are doing?

Well, pretty good. I made $10 million. But guess what. I get to pay 
the lowest income tax rate in the country because I declare it as 
carried interest.

Do we want to plug that loophole and ask that person to pay the same 
income tax rate that the people who get up and go to work and then have 
to shower after work because they have dirt under their fingernails 
have to pay?

How about making those changes? I am for all of those things. I want 
to work with the Senator from Alabama and every other Senator who wants 
to do all of these things.

What happened at the start of this past decade is, somebody put sand 
in the gas tank and the car will not run and we are up in the engine 
department trying to figure out how the carburetor works.

This is not difficult. You are going to go to war, pay for it. You 
are going to cut spending, then take a look at the most egregious 
abuses and pay for those by cutting the spending.

Take a look at the history on this floor. We have been through a 
long, tortured decade of what I consider irresponsible fiscal policy.

I understand it is not the case where one side is all to blame and 
the other side not. I understand all that. But I also understand this: 
I was on this floor saying: Let's pay for the cost of war. I did 20 
hearings on the most egregious waste, fraud, and abuse in this country 
by contractors doing work in Iraq and Afghanistan. I spoke dozens of 
times on


this floor on those issues and could not get much support: cutting 
spending for contractors who were abusing the American people by 
sending contaminated water--more contaminated than raw water from the 
Euphrates River--to the military bases in Iraq for the soldiers to use 
and getting paid for it; getting paid bonuses to do electrical work at 
the military camps in Iraq and Afghanistan that was so shoddy--done by 
third country nationals hired by our contractors--such shoddy 
electrical work that Mr. Maseth, a Green Beret, goes in to take a 
shower and he is electrocuted, killed in a shower. We paid bonuses to 
that contractor for that work. It is unbelievable to me.

We have a lot to answer for--all of us do. Every single Member on the 
floor of this Senate has a lot to answer for. But we can work together 
on spending and asking those who are not paying their fair share of 
taxes--by the way, the President, when he gave his State of the Union 
Address in the House Chamber, said something I have had a vote on four 
times on the floor of the Senate and lost all four times. The President 
said: Let's shut down the tax break that gives tax breaks to companies 
that shut down their American manufacturing plants, fire their workers, 
and move to China or some other foreign country. Do you know we do 
that?

We have tried to shut that down. We give a tax break. If you lock up 
your manufacturing plant, shut the plant, fire every single worker, and 
move your manufacturing to China, we give you a big, fat tax break for 
doing it.

That is unbelievably ignorant. The President said in his State of the 
Union Address: Shut that down. I have been trying to shut that down for 
many years and have been unable to do it. It is not as if there are not 
candidates for some common sense and some sanity in fiscal policy to 
bring us back into some balance.

We need a revenue base that is a reasonable revenue base. We took a 
lot of that away about 9 years ago with a vote that I did not cast. 
Then we need to tighten our belt on spending and get rid of the things 
that do not work.

I know I have gone far afield, and the Senator from Alabama--I have 
not heard him gritting his teeth, but he probably is.

My point is this: He raises an important subject--an unsustainable 
fiscal policy. This President inherited an economic wreck; there is no 
question about that. We are trying to get out of this. But you cannot 
look out 5 and 10 years and see what we see without understanding this 
is unsustainable and all of us have to work together to fix it--all of 
us. I am committed to doing that.

I say to the Senator from Alabama, I hope he will find another 
vehicle in the next few days on which to offer this amendment because 
Senator Rockefeller and I have put together this FAA reauthorization 
bill along with Senator Hutchison. We have worked very hard after so 
many years to finally get it to the floor of the Senate. We want to get 
this bill passed. Air safety, modernization--all of it--depends on us 
getting this legislation through the Senate soon.

I thank the Senator from Alabama for staying and listening. I expect 
he will retort or respond. Again, these are all important issues, but 
we must get this FAA reauthorization bill done.