# None
## `0cb4414529f6bd6be3dd12c4c91fef9a`
`Mr. PERRIELLO â€” 9 July 2009`

---


Mr. PERRIELLO. I rise to express my support for the State and Foreign 
Operations Appropriations.

For the first time in a long time, we have a President with a 
balanced foreign policy focused on smart power that balances might and 
right.

Having worked in Afghanistan, I know firsthand the importance of 
diplomacy and the rule of law. Our success internationally depends on 
both the full funding and support of our military and of our diplomatic 
corps. Every crisis averted through good diplomacy, multinational 
cooperation and economic development reduces the burden on our military 
and our military families.

This bill also includes support language for the City of Hope 
project. This project is managed by the nonprofit Teamwork Ministries 
International based in my district in Martinsville, Virginia. Their 
work to help educate, nourish and train future leaders of Africa is a 
worthy investment to bring hope to communities and to nations around 
the globe. This project is a great example of dedicated yet humble 
Americans putting their values into action, being the face of the 
greatest of all nations to those who are suffering the most. I thank 
the team at the City of Hope project, and I thank the chairman for this 
great step forward for our country's security and its greatest values.

This project is making a difference in the lives of children who have 
been orphaned as a result of the HIV/AIDS crisis affecting Tanzania and 
other countries in sub-Saharan Africa. Duke University, the University 
of Virginia, Campbell University, Howard University, St. Mary's 
University of Tanzania, and Teamwork Ministries International are 
working together to advance the City of Hope project.

The HIV/AIDS epidemic has left millions of African children alone, 
homeless, and without hope. UNICEF estimates there are over 12 million 
orphaned children in sub-Saharan Africa, and over 1.5 million in 
Tanzania alone. In some communities, the majority of adults have either 
died or are infected with HIV/AIDS, and their children carry the burden 
of raising the family. These children are at a high risk of being 
misused and exploited at the work place as they try to earn a living to 
support their siblings. Many of these children wander into towns, live 
on the streets, and resort to stealing in order to survive. Others are 
kidnapped and sold as slaves.

The City of Hope is a revolutionary concept, of building facilities 
and initiating assistance programs not only to provide living quarters, 
health care, clean drinking water, food and education for children, but 
also to help educate and train future leaders of Africa. It is an 
innovative way of bringing transformation to those in despair, and 
bringing hope to communities and to nations.

Through construction of campuses for orphans in Tanzania providing 
clean drinking water, residential facilities, schools, and health care 
facilities, the City of Hope project will provide safe havens for 
children in the region. A


principal objective is to provide training in leadership skills and in 
microenterprise, especially agribusiness and sustainable farming, and 
environmentally beneficial land-use practices. This approach is 
intended to provide economic opportunities for future leaders in an 
area in which 80 percent of the economy is agricultural.

Teamwork Ministries is benefiting from the commitment of skilled 
professionals in such areas as medicine, nursing, nutrition and health, 
sustainable agricultural practices, and design of ''green buildings'' 
to conserve energy. The government of Tanzania is assigning doctors and 
medical staff to the City of Hope project, and Duke University School 
of Nursing, the University of Virginia, Campbell University, Howard 
University, and St. Mary's University of Tanzania are all offering 
their expertise.

In 2009, the first City of Hope campus in the northern Tanzanian 
community of Ntagatcha will be home to 300 orphaned children and will 
provide employment and health care to benefit adults in the local 
community. Teamwork Ministries' objective is to replicate the City of 
Hope model elsewhere, to serve communities in which the need is 
greatest. With adequate funding and support in the years ahead, 
Teamwork Ministries' goal is to establish up to 100 Cities of Hope 
throughout Tanzania and other sub-Saharan African countries.

I want to thank the State, Foreign Operations Appropriations 
Subcommittee Chair, Congresswoman Lowey, and my colleague Congressman 
David Price, a member of the Appropriations Committee, for their 
support of the City of Hope project. I believe this project, which has 
strong support in my Congressional District, will be a worthwhile 
expenditure of USAID funding.