---
---

# None
## `0cbab5f9c58238545b94185f131681c3`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute 
to the 4th Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division from Fort Lewis.

By June 30 of this month, the last of the, roughly, 4,000 men and 
women of the 4th Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division will have returned home 
to Fort Lewis after completing a 15-month deployment in Iraq. The 
Dragoon Raiders, as the Brigade is known, deployed in Iraq in April 
2007, a month earlier than expected.

During their deployment, the 4-2 supported operations in Baghdad, 
Baghdad's Northern Security Belt, and the Diyala Province. The Brigade 
cleared 2,216 IEDs from more than 87,000 kilometers of routes, ensuring 
safe travel for civilians and security forces. Soldiers from the 4-2 
also captured more than 1,700 detainees and 220 high-value targets 
during combat operations.

In tribute to their brave service, three members of the Brigade were 
awarded the Silver Star, the United States' third highest award for 
combat valor. Their valorous service was not without cost, however. In 
the course of their deployment, the Dragoon Raiders lost 54 of their 
comrades, with another 424 wounded.

I want to express my deep condolences to the 4-2 Brigade and to the 
families of those fallen soldiers. Their contributions and sacrifices 
will not be forgotten.

The men and women of the 4-2 have done everything their country has 
asked of them and more. We all should have the utmost respect and 
admiration for their service and sacrifice.
