---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `0cbe5d540fab7a4e2299b51c609e2f2a`
`Mr. KERRY — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce today the 
Military Reservist and Veteran Small Business Reauthorization and 
Opportunity Act. As the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Small 
Business and Entrepreneurship, I am gratified that I was able to work 
with Ranking Member Senator Snowe on behalf of the 25 million veterans 
currently in America, including over 1 million who have left military 
service since September 11, 2001. As the conflicts in Iraq and 
Afghanistan continue, the number of veterans, including service 
disabled veterans, will increase and reservists will continue to carry 
more of the burden then ever before. As veterans and reservists reenter 
civilian life, the small business programs provided by the Federal 
Government will become even more critical. I am serious about 
addressing the problems affecting veterans and reservists who wish or 
are already engaged in small business and this bill is another step 
forward in doing so.

The Military Reservist and Veteran Small Business Reauthorization and 
Opportunity Act of 2007 reauthorizes the veteran programs in the Small 
Business Administration. Specifically, this legislation increases the 
funding authorization for the Office of Veteran Business Development 
from $2 million today to $2.5 million over three years. In light of the 
large numbers of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan and 
increased responsibilities placed on this office by Executive Order 
13360, it is high time that the Office of Veteran Business Development 
receive the funding levels that it needs.

The bill also creates an Interagency Task Force to improve 
coordination between agencies in administrating veteran small business 
programs. One of the biggest complaints that our Committee heard at the 
''Assessing Federal Small Business Assistance Programs for Veterans and 
Reservists'' hearing held on January 31st was that Federal agencies do 
not work together in reaching out to veterans and informing them about 
small business programs. This task force is an attempt to improve that. 
The task force is composed of representatives from Small Business 
Administration, Department of Defense, Department of Veterans Affairs, 
Department of Labor, General Services Administration, Office of 
Management Budget and four veterans service organizations appointed by 
the President. The task force will focus on increasing veterans' small 
business success, including procurement and franchising opportunities, 
access to capital, and other types of business development assistance.

This bill also permanently extends the SBA Advisory Committee on 
Veterans Business Affairs. The committee was created to serve as an 
independent source of advice and policy recommendations to the SBA, the 
Congress, and the President. The veteran small business owners who 
serve on this committee provide a unique perspective which is sorely 
needed at this challenging time. Unfortunately, continuing uncertainty 
about the Committee's future has, at times, distracted the committee 
from focusing on its core function. Therefore, I have called for its 
permanent extension. It is clear to me that more needs to be done to 
address the issues facing veterans and reservists, and the role this 
committee plays will continue to be important.

Additionally, I have taken a number of steps to better serve the 
reservists who are serving their country abroad while their businesses 
are suffering at home. Over the past decade, the Department of Defense 
has increased its reliance on the National Guard and reserves. This has 
intensified since September 11, 2001, and increased deployments are 
expected to continue. The affect of this increase on reservists and 
small businesses continues to remain of concern. A 2003 GAO report 
indicated that 41 percent of reservists lost income when mobilized. 
This had a higher effect on self-employed reservists, 55 percent of 
whom lost income.


In 1999, I created the Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster 
Loan, MREIDL, program to provide loans to small businesses that incur 
economic injury as a result of an essential employee being called to 
active duty. However, since 2002, fewer than 300 of these loans have 
been approved by the SBA, despite record numbers of reservists being 
called to active duty. It is clear that changes need to be made, so 
that reservists are informed about the availability of the MREIDL 
program and that the program better meets their needs.

At the hearing on January 31, we heard suggestions for a number of


changes which would improve the Military Reservist Economic Injury 
Disaster Loan program, and I have included those changes in this bill. 
They include increasing the application deadline for such a loan from 
90 days to 1 year following the date of discharge; creating a 
predeployment loan approval process; and improved outreach and 
technical assistance.

This bill also increases to $50,000 the amount SBA can disburse 
without requiring collateral under the MREIDL program. Reservist 
families have already sacrificed enough when a family member goes away 
to serve their country and when their business is harmed as a result. 
This loan program would allow reservist dependent businesses to access 
the capital they need to stay afloat without having to sacrifice beyond 
the service of the key employees. In order to give reservists time to 
repay the loans, the non-collaterized loan created in this bill would 
not accumulate interest or require payments for one year or until after 
the deployment ends, whichever is longer.

While addressing the funding needs of reservists is essential, I also 
want to make sure that reservists receive the technical and management 
assistance they need to succeed. For that reason, this bill also 
includes the establishment of the Reservists Enterprise Transition and 
Sustainability Task Force. This grant program would allow Small 
Business Development Centers, Women's Business Centers and veteran 
centers to compete for grants to create programs that help small 
businesses prepare for and cope with the mobilization of reservist-
employees and owners.

There are two more provisions which will help this Nation's service 
members. One section of the bill will require the SBA to give priority 
to MREIDL loans during loan processing. Another provision will give 
activated service members an extension of any SBA time limitations 
equal to the time spent on active duty. This will make it easier for 
service members to serve their country while continuing to meet their 
obligations at home.

Lastly, this bill calls for two reports. One report will look at the 
needs of service-disabled veterans who are interested in becoming 
entrepreneurs. As a result of the war on terror and improved medicine, 
we are seeing more service-disabled veterans than we have seen in 
decades. For some service-disabled veterans, entrepreneurship is the 
best or only way of achieving economic independence. Therefore, it is 
essential that we understand and take steps to address the needs of the 
service-disabled veteran entrepreneur or small business owner.

This bill also calls for a study to investigate how to improve 
relations between reservists and their employers. In January, the 
Committee heard that recent changes by the Department of Defense to 
policies regulating the length and frequency of reservist deployments 
is harming the ability of reservists to find jobs and the ability of 
small business owners to continue hiring them. Witnesses testified 
about reservists being turned down or not considered for jobs because 
they are reservists. I have heard reservists talk about being pressured 
to leave the reserves if they would like to continue to advance at 
work. I have also heard the concerns of small business owners who want 
to support servicemembers; however, they cannot do so if it means the 
survival of their business. Understanding more about this issue is 
important and essential to making sure that policymakers can continue 
to support citizen soldiers and the small businesses that employ them 
across the Nation.


Veterans possess great technical skills and valuable leadership 
experience, but they require financial resources and small business 
training to turn that potential into a viable enterprise. A recent 
report by the Small Business Administration stated that 22 percent of 
veterans plan to start or are starting a business when they leave the 
military. For service-disabled veterans, this number rises to 28 
percent. This bill is another step forward in providing the necessary 
resources for veterans and reservists to succeed in starting or growing 
a small business.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.