# CONGRESSIONAL IMMIGRATION CAUCUS
## `0cc5ae5321e2d9d13b054eb40a94d336`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Thank you, Mr. Altmire. I want to let you 
get back to the time line because I think it is important for people to 
understand where this started, and to talk a little bit about where we 
are going, because so much of the news these days is filled with bad 
news, bad news for our veterans, bad news for the security of our 
country. And we talk about that a lot here. Mr. Altmire, as you know, 
this place focuses on crises often and on bad news.

The good news is that things are changing. The good news is that 
there is a commitment now to make up for the wrongs of the past. But it 
is fairly mind-blowing to people out there to think that it took The 
Washington Post to uncover what was happening in our veterans system. 
Because, Mr. Altmire, as you know, veterans back in our districts, back 
in Pennsylvania and in Connecticut and throughout this country, have 
known what is going on with veterans for years. I mean, they have been 
down here in Washington, DC, month after month, year after year trying 
to tell this Congress that there are waiting lines for care; that the 
conditions are often substandard because of years of neglect in capital 
improvements; that they simply don't have the access to the funds 
necessary to pay for the rising premiums and rising copays.

And before this story in The Washington Post broke, you, Mr. Altmire, 
and those of us in the 30-Something Working Group were yelling about 
this on the House floor. We got here with that mandate, to change 
things.

So you are going to run through, I think, some fairly amazing 
comments from some of the soldiers and staff at Walter Reed Hospital in 
terms of what they have been dealing with over the past several years. 
But we just need to remind people out there that you can't absolve this 
former Congress in the last 12 years from the catastrophes that we are 
uncovering within our medical system, specifically, in this case, 
within our veterans medical system simply because The Washington Post 
didn't get around to writing about it until last month, because if you 
were back home listening to this, you heard it time after time again.

I mean, here is the thing. We are talking about a substandard level 
of care for our veterans. We should be talking about the gold standard 
of care for our veterans. And we shouldn't be talking about just 
lifting up Walter Reed Hospital so that it meets the standards of 
dignity that every other hospital in our health care system abides by. 
We should be talking about raising up veterans care so that this is the 
highest standard. It is what everyone else in the medical community and 
the provider community seeks to meet. The people coming home from 
Afghanistan and Iraq, people coming home from Vietnam and previous 
engagements should come home to the best care this country can provide, 
Mr. Altmire.

And I would like to yield back to you so you can continue to tell the 
story of what we have found at Walter Reed hospital.