# None
## `0cc5bdde1392dc7976fa9a5c2734d825`
`Mr. FEINGOLD â€” 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Madam President, I want to add my thoughts to the 
debate on the Improving America's Security Act of 2007.

First, I preface my remarks by applauding the chairman and ranking 
member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee for 
their work on this important bill. This bill makes crucial and long 
overdue improvements in transportation security, critical 
infrastructure protection, and emergency response capabilities. There 
is no higher priority than protecting homeland security, and this bill 
is a key component in that effort.

Nearly 6 years since the horrific attacks of September 11, we are 
still struggling to give our first responders, law enforcement 
officers, and the employees of the Department of Homeland Security the 
resources they need to keep us safe. I thank these brave men and women 
who work daily to protect this Nation. They are on the front lines of 
the fight against terrorism. They are the ones who are called on to 
stop and respond to any future attack upon our Nation. This bill 
includes important resources these brave men and women need to perform 
their critical tasks.

I am pleased that the Senate has increased funding for State homeland 
security grants, emergency management performance grants, emergency 
communications and the Urban Area Security Initiative. I have long 
advocated for greater funding of emergency management grants because 
they are crucial in assisting State and local officials in preparing 
for all-hazards emergencies. These grants provide emergency managers 
with the resources they need to increase coordination and planning so 
that if an emergency occurs, State and local officials will respond 
much more efficiently and effectively.

It is my hope that this bill represents a lasting shift in 
priorities, a shift towards an enhanced focus on the most pressing 
threats facing our country. We are still spending almost twice as much 
on Iraq as is allocated for homeland security, diplomacy, and 
international assistance combined. The billions we spend each month in 
Iraq could be invested in the protection of critical infrastructure and 
our system of national preparedness and response that failed in the 
wake of Hurricane Katrina. As we consider the budget resolution and the 
defense and homeland security appropriations bills this year, I 
encourage my colleagues to take a broader view when it comes to our 
national security priorities and make the tradeoffs that must be made.

I am particularly pleased that the Federal Agency Data Mining 
Reporting Act is included in this bill as section 504. I have been 
working on this legislation for a number of years with Senator Sununu, 
Senator Leahy, and Senator Akaka. I am glad that Senator Sununu and 
Senator Akaka successfully offered the legislation as an amendment to 
S. 4 when it was before the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
Committee.

Many law-abiding Americans are understandably concerned about the 
specter of secret government programs analyzing vast quantities of 
public and private data about their pursuits, in search of patterns of 
suspicious activity. Four years after we first learned about the 
Defense Department's program called Total Information Awareness, there 
is still much Congress does not know about the Federal Government's 
work on data mining. This bill is an important step in allowing 
Congress to conduct oversight of any such programs or related research 
development efforts.

The Federal Agency Data Mining Reporting Act would require Federal 
agencies to report annually on their development and use of data mining 
technologies to discover predictive or anomalous patterns indicating 
criminal or terrorist activity the types of pattern-based data analysis 
that raise the most serious privacy concerns. As amended on the floor, 
it would also allow classified information, law enforcement sensitive 
information, trade secrets, and proprietary business information to be 
provided to the relevant committees separately, in a nonpublic form, 
under appropriate security measures.

Intelligence and law enforcement agencies would not be doing their 
job if they did not take advantage of new technologies. But when it 
comes to pattern-based data mining, Congress needs to understand 
whether it can be effective in identifying terrorists, and Congress 
needs to consider the privacy and civil liberties implications of 
deploying such technology domestically. I hope these reports will help 
Congress--and to the extent possible, the public--finally understand 
what is going on behind the closed doors of the executive branch, so 
that we can start to have the policy discussion about data mining that 
is long overdue.

I am concerned about the ongoing development of the Information 
Sharing Environment without adequate privacy and civil liberties 
guidelines. In the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 
2004, Congress mandated that the President create an Information 
Sharing Environment, ISE, for the sharing of terrorism information 
among Federal agencies, State and local governments, and the private 
sector. This is a critical goal in our counterterrorism efforts. But 
that legislation also required that the President issue privacy 
guidelines for the ISE, in recognition of the serious privacy and civil 
liberties implications of facilitating more sharing of information 
among these entities. Those privacy guidelines were issued in December, 
but in my view are wholly inadequate. They touch on the most 
significant privacy issues and provide a framework for agencies to 
think about the privacy issues that might arise, but they do not 
include specific guidelines and rules for protecting privacy. That is 
why I filed an amendment to S. 4 that would have provided more 
direction to the ISE program manager about what should be included in 
these privacy guidelines and the need for more specific government-wide 
rules for the ISE. I was disappointed that my amendment was not 
included, but will continue to work to ensure that the guidelines for 
implementation of the ISE are sufficient to protect the privacy of 
Americans.

The bill mandates the declassification of the aggregate amount of the 
intelligence budget. This reform has a long history going back to the 
Church and Pike Commissions. It is supported by the current Senate 
Select Committee on Intelligence. It was also one of the 
recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, which stated that ''when even 
aggregate categorical numbers remain hidden it is hard to judge 
priorities and foster accountability.'' I concur with the Commission, 
that aggregate budget figures ''provid[e] little insight into U.S. 
intelligence sources and methods.'' Sharing this information with the 
American people will, however, provide a greater level of transparency 
and accountability and in the end make us more secure.

I was pleased to support Senator McCaskill's amendment to ensure that 
workers at the Transportation Security Administration are afforded the 
same workplace protections as other DHS employees. The low retention 
rate at TSA resulting in part from lack of workers' rights threatens 
our security. This amendment will address this concern while giving 
administrators the flexibility they need to respond to imminent 
threats.

I am pleased that this bill includes provisions to ensure proper 
oversight of homeland security grants. I am deeply troubled by reports 
of improper


oversight of expenditures at DHS, including an article in the 
Washington Post last November stating that the Department was unable to 
locate one-third of the files needed to perform an audit of its 
contracts. I therefore supported Senator Coburn's amendment to require 
DHS to perform audits on homeland security grants. While I understand 
concerns that this requirement could have led to delays in the issuance 
of grants in fiscal year 2008, I did not think it was unreasonable to 
require DHS to conduct the audits required in a timely manner. I will 
continue to work with my colleagues to improve oversight of homeland 
security funding.

I supported several amendments that would have added funding for 
critical security needs not fully addressed in this bill. I do not take 
lightly a decision to vote in favor of spending more money. Fiscal 
responsibility is one of my highest priorities, but it is imperative 
that we provide the resources needed to combat terrorism.

I voted for this bill because it makes key changes to address 
security needs. However, our Nation's vulnerabilities demand more and I 
will continue to work to ensure that our vital homeland security needs 
are met.