# PROTECT AMERICA ACT
## `0cd16ecb0356b0d2813c5f1d2231ed9c`
`Mr. McCAUL of Texas — 5 March 2008`

---


Mr. McCAUL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the 
Protect America Act, and I urge the Democratic leadership in the House 
to bring to the floor the bipartisan bill that was passed in the Senate 
overwhelmingly which brought this act to permanency.

Unfortunately, last month what we saw was, on February 15, this act 
did not come to the floor; rather, it expired. The Democratic 
leadership failed to bring that to the House floor. And with the 
expiration of the Protect America Act, our intelligence communities 
went dark in many parts of the world.

This is a game of dangerous politics. It is putting the American 
people at great risk as every day passes. I urge again the Democratic 
leadership to bring the bipartisan Senate bill to the floor so that 
democracy can operate, because the American people support this 
bipartisan legislation that the Senate passed and we need to pass it 
now to protect American lives. If I can just step back and give this 
some context.

The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act actually passed in 1978, 
during the Cold War. It was a time, again, during the Cold War, not the 
threat that we face today, a very different threat. The FISA Act, 
because the technology now has outdated the law, needs to be 
modernized. And that is exactly what the Protect America Act does.

The Director of National Intelligence came to the Congress last year 
to tell us that we needed this modernization because there are 
dangerous loopholes and intelligence gaps in our collection capability, 
and that needed to be fixed. Many of us here in the House listened to 
that warning, answered that call, and voted in a very bipartisan way 
last August for the Protect America Act. Unfortunately, as I stated, 
last month, on February 15, the Democratic leadership allowed that act 
to expire, again placing Americans in grave jeopardy.

And what did we hear from the Democratic leadership at that time? 
Majority Leader Steny Hoyer said, there really is no urgency here; the 
intelligence agencies have all the tools that they need. Chairman 
Silvestre Reyes at the time said, Things will be just fine. Things will 
be just fine.

But things aren't fine. And all you have to do is look at a letter 
that we received in the Congress from the Director of National 
Intelligence and the Attorney General pointing out the grave risk that 
this expiration is giving to the American people. They said: The 
expiration of the authorities in the Protect America Act would plunge 
critical intelligence programs into a state of uncertainty, which could 
cause us to delay the gathering of, or simply miss, critical foreign 
intelligence information. And then, they say, that is exactly what has 
happened since the Protect America Act expired days ago without the 
enactment of the bipartisan Senate bill.

This is the Director of National Intelligence, a man who served under 
Democrats and Republicans. This is the Attorney General of the United 
States. They said we have lost intelligence information this past week 
as a direct result of the uncertainty created by Congress' failure to 
act. I submit that this is not only a failure to act; it is a 
dereliction of duty to the American people. We have the most solemn 
obligation first and foremost to protect the American people. Mr. 
Speaker, we are failing in that obligation in the House today.

Intelligence is the best weapon we have in the war on terror. 
Intelligence is the first line of defense in the war on terror. And, if 
I could step back to 1993 and tell a story.

I used to work in the Justice Department. I worked on FISAs. In 1993, 
an individual named Ramzi Yousef came in the country with a fake Iraqi 
passport, and he plotted to bring down the World Trade Center. 
Fortunately, he wasn't successful that day, although he did kill 
people. Innocent lives were lost, and he caused great damage to these 
buildings. He fled, ended up eventually in Islamabad in Pakistan, where 
he met up with his uncle, Khalid Shaikh Mohammad. Khalid Shaikh 
Mohammad of course is the mastermind of September 11. There, they 
talked about the idea of flying airplanes into buildings.

Eventually, Ramzi Yousef was caught in Islamabad and brought back to 
justice. But the intelligence that we missed back then because some of 
the flaws in the system, the 9/11 Commission studied this and they made 
several recommendations. And, of course, at the time they analyzed what 
we passed in the PATRIOT Act to fix this problem, that being the fact 
that a wall separated the criminal division from the foreign 
counterintelligence. The left hand literally didn't know what the right 
hand was doing. This caused great consternation within the Justice 
Department and within the intelligence community. I remember working 
before the PATRIOT Act passed and I remember some of these frustrations 
myself.

There is a great quote from an FBI agent who was frustrated with 
this. He said: You know, someday someone will die and, wall or not, the 
public will not understand why we were not more effective at throwing 
every resource we had at certain problems. Let's hope the national 
security law unit will stand behind their decisions then, especially 
since the biggest threat to us now, Osama bin Laden, is getting the 
most protection.

I draw this analogy because the same principle applies to the FISA 
modernization, and that is that if we fail to pass this act, someday 
someone will die.



The biggest threat to us is Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda; and they 
are, unfortunately, now getting great protections. They are getting 
constitutional protections that they don't deserve. We are required to 
go to this FISA Court any time we want to listen to overseas 
intelligence. Foreign communications from a foreign terrorist to a 
foreign terrorist, we are required to go to a court in the United 
States with a showing of probable cause, giving a terrorist 
constitutional protections they do not deserve and putting not only 
Americans in the United States at great risk, but the war fighter 
abroad at great risk.

There is a great example last year. Three American soldiers were 
kidnapped. Because of the FISA restrictions, we had to get lawyered up, 
go to the FISA Court, apply for a warrant, and show probable cause for 
an emergency FISA warrant. Many hours expired. In the meantime, one of 
those soldiers was killed, and two we haven't heard from since. This is 
a tragic outcome. Again, this is putting Americans at great risk.

We talk a lot in the 9/11 Commission about connecting the dots. And 
the fact of the matter is, if we can't gather and collect those dots, 
there is no way we can connect the dots. And the gentlelady from New 
Mexico has stated so eloquently so many times that very point. I want 
to yield to her. The gentlewoman from New Mexico (Mrs. Wilson) has been 
the leader in the House on this issue. She was the one who really 
brought this issue to the attention of the Congress, and I believe 
America owes her a great deal of gratitude, so we can fix this 
intelligence gap we currently have in the law and ultimately save 
lives.