# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `0ce121dee624337bf2fe98a57aadf5e2`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Chairman, I only asked for the opportunity to speak 
in opposition just to claim the time in opposition. This is my 
amendment, so I won't be speaking in opposition to it.

Of course, I do want to speak in favor of this, because clearly this 
is the leading cause of disability, I believe, and will be the leading 
cause of disability for this war. As we have seen our soldiers come 
back, more and more of them are reporting mental health as the leading 
cause of disability; and, of course, this has been underreported in so 
many instances.

Why? It has been underreported because of the stigma, Mr. Chairman. 
Continued in this country is the fact that our society continues to 
stigmatize the treatment of mental illness. So even our soldiers who 
have every right to feel that they have been stressed by the experience 
of having suffered through the trauma of war, even those that have been 
through this experience and have every right to seek mental health 
treatment, even they feel stigmatized by having to need mental health 
treatment, and that is the reason why so many of them don't actually go 
and seek mental health treatment.

But in spite of the stigma, we still find that 35 percent of those 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan have sought treatment for mental 
health services. This is an enormous number, and I think it points very 
much to the fact that this is a very enormous challenge for our 
country.

Mr. Chairman, we need to deal with this problem before we even have 
these soldiers returning from Iraq, and that is why we are looking to 
have the psychological Kevlar act adopted in this legislation.

I want to identify Kristen Henderson, who is a spouse of a member of 
our military who came to my office and said, why is it that we are 
waiting until our soldiers get back from Iraq until we deal with their 
post-traumatic stress disorder? Why don't we start helping them become 
resilient, and how come we don't start preparing them for the trauma of 
war before they even get into the trauma of war? We do so much to put 
them into boot camps to train them physically for war. Why don't we do 
more to put them together and train them mentally for war?

This is what this amendment says. It puts the Department of Defense 
in the position where they have to put together a program where our 
military men and women are put into a curriculum where they are better 
prepared to deal with the conflicts and the stresses of war before they 
actually see the trauma of combat.

Mr. Chairman, I think that this is something that we need to do, 
because we need to make sure that when our soldiers come back that they 
don't have that sense of stigma attached to seeking mental health 
services. And if they understand that in order for them to be good 
soldiers that they need to be of sound mind and sound body and that is 
part of their being part of a esprit de corps, then they will be more 
forthcoming in seeking help when they need it. That will mean they will 
be better soldiers in the long run.

Mr. Chairman, just a few years ago, I had the opportunity to go down 
to Fort Bragg and see our Green Berets. Mr. Chairman, they have 
psychiatrists available 24 hours, 7 days a week.

You might ask, why do the best and brightest in the military have 
that? The reason they do is because the military has figured out that 
if they have anything else on their mind bothering them, they can't do 
their job the way they are best trained to do their job. I think, Mr. 
Chairman, if it is good enough for the Green Berets, then why isn't it 
good enough for the rest of our Armed Forces?

That is what this psychological Kevlar bill puts in place. It says we 
need to protect the mind as well as the body of our soldiers before 
battle, and we need to make sure that they are prepared for every 
eventuality when it comes to wartime.

I ask my colleagues to vote for this and destigmatize mental health 
and help the Department of Defense lift the veil of the stigma of 
mental illness and vote for the psychological Kevlar bill. For that 
reason, I will ask for a recorded vote on this amendment.

