# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `0ce2b8624db6bff74c3e443825e818a1`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman's 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 327, the Joshua 
Omvig Suicide Prevention Act.

I would like to thank my friend, the gentleman from Iowa, for 
bringing this important piece of legislation to the floor. This bill 
bears the name of a constituent of Mr. Boswell's, Joshua Omvig, who 
tragically took his life.

I wish that I could stand here today and say that Joshua was the last 
soldier, sailor, airman, or marine to fall through the cracks, the last 
young life to end prematurely because the system was unwilling or 
unable to assist them. But if that were true, the gentleman would not 
have had to introduce this bill, and we would not be here today 
discussing it.

In January of this year, this tragedy repeated itself when Jonathan 
Schulze, a young marine from my district who had served honorably in 
Iraq, took his life after seeking assistance from two VA medical 
facilities in Minnesota. The loss of such a promising young life has 
sparked both sadness and outrage throughout Minnesota and the Nation; 
outrage not only at the loss of a young life, but because the VA system 
in which he was enrolled had apparently and tragically failed him.

In the months since Jonathan's unnecessary death, the VA has launched 
two investigations to find out why this marine did not receive the care 
he so desperately needed. An initial medical inspector's investigation 
was inconclusive, but it is my sincere hope that the ongoing VA 
Inspector General's investigation will fully explain the circumstances 
that led to his death.

Along with the full accounting of the VA's action in Jonathan 
Schulze's case, I am hopeful the passage of this bill today will 
provide the professionals of the VA medical system with the tools 
necessary to prevent the tragic deaths of young veterans like Joshua 
and Jonathan.

Once again, Mr. Speaker, I commend the gentleman from Iowa for 
introducing this vital legislation. I urge my colleagues, all of them, 
to support H.R. 327.