# HONORING THE LIFE OF CHIEF PETTY OFFICER NATHAN H. HARDY
## `0ce3ef9148d8955cf54e66185df67496`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 7 February 2008`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and 
sacrifice of a patriot, Chief Petty Officer Nathan H. Hardy of Durham, 
New Hampshire, who was killed in action on Monday, February 4, while 
serving with the Navy SEALs in Iraq. Nate died doing what he loved. He 
loved our great country, and his life serves as an example to my State 
of New Hampshire and to our country.

We also honor the bravery and sacrifice of Chief Petty Officer 
Michael E. Koch of State College, Pennsylvania, who was killed 
alongside Nate in Iraq on Monday. They were brothers in arms and will 
not be forgotten.

After graduating from Oyster River High School in Durham, New 
Hampshire, Nate enlisted in the Navy on November 4, 1997, with the 
ambition to become a Navy SEAL. He graduated from boot camp at Recruit 
Training Command in Great Lakes, Illinois, in January 1998 and in the 
same month entered Basic Underwater Demolition SEAL training in 
Coronado, California, Class 221.

Nate was a stellar SEAL, and he lived the life of a SEAL each day. 
His military awards and decorations include the Bronze Star, two Navy 
and Marine Corps Achievement Medals, three Good Conduct Medals, two 
National Defense Medals, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, Afghanistan 
Campaign Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, Kosovo Campaign Medal, Global War 
on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service 
Medal, three Sea Service Deployment Awards, NATO Medal, the Expert 
Rifle Medal, and the Sharpshooter Pistol Medal.

Beyond being a remarkable SEAL, Nate was a loving husband, a happy 
new father, a dedicated son, a loyal friend, and a role model to many 
in New Hampshire and across the country. Nate embodied the ethic of 
Cincinnatus who, when called upon to serve and defend Rome, gave all of 
his effort and determination; but when conflict ended, he returned home 
to enjoy his family and friends. He did not glorify himself as a hero, 
because true heroes do no such thing. He was as humble as he was brave.

Like Nate, I graduated from Oyster River High School in Durham. Ours 
is a close-knit community and Nate and his family have played an 
integral role in its unique camaraderie. I've spoken to many of his 
friends, and it's clear they will always miss him, but each will carry 
a piece of him forever. Because he had a passion for so many varied 
interests, including sports, art, books and music, Nate touched people 
in different ways. Each one of his circles of friends has a unique 
perspective on Nate that they call their own because of his eclectic 
interests. All of them, though, will always feel his love, celebrate 
his life, and remember his great passion for living.

In addition to his friends, Nate leaves behind his brother, Ben; his 
mother, Donna, an administrative assistant at the University of New 
Hampshire; his father, Steve, a professor at UNH; his wife, Mindi; and 
7-month-old son, Parker. The community was called upon to support the 
Hardy family when their eldest son, Josh, died after waging a long 
battle against cancer in 1993. The Hardys showed courage at that time, 
and Durham rallied to their support. The community is ready to support 
them again at this time, united by the memories of this remarkable 
young man.

Mindi and Parker are especially in our hearts at this time and will 
always be, even after the immediate pain recedes.

Down the street from this hallowed floor is the Department of 
Veterans Affairs. On its side stand President Lincoln's words: ''To 
care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his 
orphan.''

Our patriot, Nate, bore the battle and the people who cared so deeply 
about Nate will now care for Mindi and Parker. Friends and family will 
share stories with his wife and son, stories that they will carry in 
their hearts forever. Parker will know not only that his father was 
brave, but that his father was a good man, a man of character and 
conviction.

Nate Hardy enriched our New Hampshire and our country. We were 
blessed to have him, even for such a short while. May he rest in peace, 
and may his family find comfort in knowing that he was loved and 
respected by all.
