# MENTAL HEALTH
## `0ce908f1c705e6e9e6f8f0b4d4404548`
`Mrs. NAPOLITANO — 13 December 2007`

---


Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Madam Speaker, our country has been witnessing and 
suffering the pain and anguish when a distressed individual takes to 
shooting at random or killing in revenge, be it a student or a former 
employee. More and more we hear of stories relating to our returning 
war heroes' mental health plight and inability to cope with what they 
have gone through in Afghanistan and/or Iraq. While most older veterans 
will quickly tell you they had periods of rest and relaxation between 
tours, that is no longer the case.

For far too long we have shunned speaking of or dealing with brain 
functions misfiring, or in stigmatized words, ''mental health.'' We do 
not see it, hear it, or speak of it, as it connotes ''crazy'' and 
''institutions.'' However we cannot ignore that mental illness does not 
discriminate. It touches all regardless of race, gender, class, or 
religion.

Look at rising suicide statistics for jailed or homeless individuals 
and unattended veterans who attempt such drastic measures. It is a 
national crisis and our great shame. Enough of words, action should 
have begun yesterday. Early prevention must be implemented in schools 
to allow for early identification by teachers of children who exhibit 
behavioral problems. And the government must pay attention at every 
level as this is an issue that affects not only quality of life, but 
also the community's well-being and economic stability.

We have tests and screenings for breast cancer, heart attacks, 
strokes, and a myriad of other diseases and conditions, but we have not 
yet woken up to the fact that the brain's functions are vital to our 
body's health and survival. It is critical that we destigmatize mental 
illness so that our children, our families, and our wounded warrior 
veterans receive the necessary help they need to lead productive lives 
with supportive families and communities.
