---
---

# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `0cf9abef8670088936dec54a86a441c4`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 9 December 2010`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Madam President, we have again witnessed 
gridlock at its worst on the heels of the vote that just concluded. 
When the Senate was given a chance to lead on critical issues crucial 
to our national security, to our troops and to our leadership in the 
21st century, the Senate let politics obstruct progress that we should 
make.

This is the second time this year we have prevented ourselves, if you 
will, from debating critical national security issues. Like so many 
other debates that we wanted to have this year, this one was derailed 
by obstruction before it even began.

The last time the minority party blocked debate of a national defense 
authorization act, they argued that the DREAM Act should not be 
considered as an amendment to the bill and that we needed to wait on 
the report of the Pentagon study group on how to repeal don't ask, 
don't tell before we can vote on the broader bill.

This time we did consider the DREAM Act in a separate vote and this 
time, after voting today, we voted after the Pentagon's task force on 
don't ask, don't tell has weighed in with the most comprehensive review 
of a personnel policy that DOD has ever conducted on any policy being 
proposed. But the obstruction continues. There are new excuses this 
time. Opponents now say we need to extend tax breaks before we can 
consider legislation necessary to ensure our national security. It 
doesn't seem to matter to those who voted no today that the Pentagon 
study group looking at repeal confirmed what many of us have been 
saying for years, that don't ask, don't tell can be overturned without 
disrupting our Nation's military readiness. It doesn't seem to matter 
to these opponents that Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen, and a host of 
other military and civilian leaders believe that repeal by a Federal 
judge would be far more disruptive and damaging to readiness and morale 
than repeal through legislation that has been thoughtfully and 
comprehensively drafted by the Congress. This wide-ranging and highly 
respected group of military and civilian leaders has strongly urged us, 
the Senate, to act on this Defense authorization bill this month.


Unlike what some on the other side of the aisle have claimed, the 
repeal language in this legislation respects the Pentagon's timeline 
and it gives our military leaders the flexibility they say they need to 
implement repeal in a way that tracks with military standards and 
guidelines. The best way to change the policy is for elected 
representatives--that is us--to pass the


legislation before us now and to do it this year.

But the vote we just had means we will have no debate on don't ask, 
don't tell. And just as importantly--and I know the Presiding Officer 
serves on the Foreign Relations Committee--it thwarts a serious 
discussion about pressing national security issues. Imagine that. We 
are prevented from debating fundamental national security concerns at a 
time of two wars. People in my State of Colorado do not understand such 
obstruction, and I do not think Americans all across the country do.

This is further illuminated because every year for nearly a half 
century, Congress has taken up and passed a bill renewing our defense 
policies for the Nation for the coming year. That is 48 years 
consecutively. And this Defense authorization bill, like all those that 
came before it, is as critically important as the 48 that have preceded 
it. It provides funding for our military operations in Afghanistan and 
Pakistan and Iraq. It supports our servicemembers and keeps Americans 
safe through needed resources and policies, including fair and 
competitive pay and benefits for our men and women in uniform.

The bill also includes many important provisions directed at the 
health and needs of our servicemembers' families. Specifically, if I 
might, I want to mention a provision I authored with help from other of 
my colleagues which would extend health insurance for military 
families, enabling children of active-duty servicemembers and retirees 
to stay on their parents' policies until they turn age 26. It is 
similar to what we did in the Affordable Care Act last year and this 
year more broadly for Americans.

Also importantly, this legislation provides improved care for our 
wounded servicemembers and their families--not just the physical wounds 
of war but also the mental wounds of war.

As I conclude, I have to tell you I remain hopeful that somehow this 
Congress can find a way, even in the midst of this partisan rancor, to 
pass this Defense authorization bill for the 49th consecutive year. I 
am willing to stay until Christmas, even through Christmas, and the 
week after, to get this done.

I will tell you, if we cannot get don't ask, don't tell repeal as 
part of the Defense authorization bill, I am willing to stay through 
the holidays to debate it on the floor as a stand-alone measure, and I 
will urge my colleagues to join me in that debate.

So despite the vote today, I have to say I am optimistic about our 
future, and I am committed, as I know the Presiding Officer is, to a 
new kind of politics where we can find consensus among our 
disagreement. I know the people of our States and Americans at large 
want us to tackle tough decisions. It is why they sent us here: to 
resolve the tough problems. But I think opportunities that are inherent 
in those problems led us to want to serve in the Nation's capital.

Let's reach out to each other. Let's find common ground. Let's call 
on each other to work together to accomplish our shared priorities and 
demonstrate support for our Armed Forces. After all, they are standing 
up for us. We can stand up for them. Americans sent us here to do no 
less.

Madam President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a 
quorum.