---
---

# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `0d117bc2364d0ea74c4b2278c4d2504c`
`Mr. BYRD — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, a few weeks ago, Congress approved 
legislation that would have changed the course of the U.S. occupation 
of Iraq. I say occupation because, frankly, that is what this is. Our 
troops won the battle they were sent to fight. The dictator Saddam 
Hussein is deposed and executed. His rotten government is no more, 
replaced with a democratically elected Parliament, President, and Prime 
Minister. We all are cheered at the skill of our soldiers.

But, sadly, this President has not done justice by our brave troops. 
The dreadful management of this occupation has resulted in chaos. Iraq 
is at war with itself and our troops are caught in the middle. That is 
why this Congress established a new direction for bringing our troops 
home from this misbegotten occupation. The bill the President vetoed 
would have refocused our military, not on the civil war in Iraq but, 
rather, on Osama bin Laden and his base of operations. It is time for 
the President to take off his blinders and uncover his ears. White 
House obstinacy cannot continue to drive our military plans in Iraq.

With this supplemental funding legislation we begin to shift the 
responsibility for Iraq's future off the shoulders of our military, and 
onto the shoulders of the Iraqi Government and the Iraqi people. The 
White House wanted a blank check for the President's mangled occupation 
of Iraq. We are not going to sign on that dotted line--not now, not 
ever. The legislation that is before the Senate today is a step toward 
that goal. It is not a giant leap, but it is progress. And it is only a 
first step. In a few weeks, this Senate is expected to focus on the 
Defense Department authorization bill. I shall press for a vote on the 
proposal Senator Clinton and I have outlined in the authorization for 
the Iraq war and to give Congress a chance, just a chance, to decide 
whether the so-called new mission in Iraq should continue. If this 
mission is so critical, then let the administration make its case and 
let the people's elected Representatives--that is us--let the people's 
elected Representatives vote.

In July we will turn our attention to the Pentagon's fiscal 2008 
funding request, and in September we will consider the $145 billion war 
funding request for the next fiscal year. Each of these bills is an 
opportunity to shape the future course of the mission in Iraq. Clearly, 
Congress is not turning from the debate on Iraq. On the contrary, we 
are just beginning this debate.

We have all committed to protecting our men and women in uniform. 
This legislation provides the funding to do just that. We ensure $3 
billion for the purchase of mine-resistant, ambush-protected vehicles. 
The 2,000 additional advanced armored vehicles that will be built with 
these funds will help to save the lives of American soldiers and 
American marines as they travel the lonely streets of Baghdad--the 
lonely streets of Iraq.

If our soldiers are injured in battle, this legislation ensures they 
will receive high-quality health care when they come home. The fiasco 
at Walter Reed should be seared into our national consciousness. That 
is why this legislation provides $4.8 billion to ensure that troops and 
veterans receive the health care they have earned with their service.

A few weeks ago, we watched Kansas families try to put their lives 
back together after deadly tornadoes ripped through their homes. The 
Kansas Governor pointed out that her State's National Guard equipment 
was parked in Iraq and not at home, slowing cleanup and recovery 
efforts. Other States faced the potential for the exact same problem. 
This supplemental bill provides $1 billion--that is 1 dollar for every 
minute since Jesus Christ was born--$1 billion for the National Guard 
and reserve to replace the trucks and heavy equipment that Guard units 
have been directed to leave in Iraq.

Again today President Bush warned of terrorist attacks on American 
soil. He talks a great deal about the threats of such attacks, but very 
seldom does he provide resources to protect the country. If the 
President's warnings are accurate, the $1 billion contained in this 
bill should help to save lives.

We include funds for port security and for mass transit security, for 
explosive detection equipment at airports, and for several initiatives 
in the 9/11 bill that recently passed the Senate, including a more 
aggressive screening of cargo on passenger airlines. We will not--no, 
we will not--close our eyes to the huge gaps in our protections at 
home.

We also work to heal the devastated communities still struggling to 
recover from Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita. To this day, mangled 
trash heaps stand where homes and families once lived. This White 
House, the Bush White House, sends billions of dollars to rebuild 
Baghdad but ignores the overwhelming needs in New Orleans, Slidell, 
Biloxi, and so many other places at home.



This bill invests $6.4 billion--that is $6.40 for every minute since 
Jesus was born--this bill invests $6.4 billion to rebuild the gulf 
coast communities and to restore the vibrance of this proud region.

I close, and I thank my ranking member, Senator Thad Cochran, for his 
help. I thank Representative Dave Obey, chairman of the House 
Appropriations Committee, and the Senate leaders, Senator Harry Reid 
and Senator Mitch McConnell. I thank the Appropriations Committee 
staff: staff director, Charles Kieffer; Republican staff director, 
Bruce Evans; and our subcommittee and professional staff members.

I appreciate, I deeply appreciate the long hours they have worked--
yes, long hours they have worked to craft the supplemental legislation. 
I urge Senators, all Senators on both sides of the aisle, to support 
this legislation. It is the product of bipartisan negotiations. That is 
right, isn't it, Thad?