---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `0d120fbffc6baaa0850c8d9aa3ca31bb`
`Mr. INOUYE â€” 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, first, I wish to thank the Senator from 
Texas for her very generous remarks.

The measure before us represents the culmination of the work of the 
Appropriations Committee for the year. But in many respects, it is our 
committee's most important responsibility.

What could be more important today, 1 week before Christmas, than 
demonstrating support for our men and


women in uniform, whose sacrifices and dedication to the people of this 
country are unmatched.

If I may be a bit personal at this point, I have spent several 
Christmases away from home in my youth when I was serving in Italy and 
France during World War II. I have seen the anguish of wives without 
their husbands on Christmas Eve. I have seen the tears of mothers when 
they received the news of the death of their son. I have seen the 
blood. I have seen the misery.

As has been noted by others, this measure before us provides the 
essentials for the Department of Defense. That is the least we can do 
for our men and women. Yes, the amount involved is tremendous, $636 
billion. The amounts in this measure will go to pay the troops, support 
their families, provide care for the wounded, and equip our forces. 
Funding of $128 billion is included in this total to give our men and 
women in harm's way the resources they need--the guns, the bullets, the 
bulletproof vests, helmets, and such.

I know there are some who oppose the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. I 
should like to remind my colleagues that I too voted against sending 
forces to Iraq. Yes, I did--1 of 23 of us here. Nonetheless, when the 
majority of both Houses voted to engage in that conflict, regardless of 
my personal view on the wars in which our Nation is involved, I have 
always supported the funding required to ensure that those who have 
responded to our Nation's call are provided all the equipment and 
resources they require to carry out their missions. That is the least 
we can do. While others may disagree, I will flatly state that it is 
unconscionable not to support them.

This is a good bill. It is a good measure. Some will criticize the 
relatively small amounts which are allocated to items requested by 
Members of Congress. Some will question the overall level of resources 
for defense and, as noted earlier, there are some who oppose funding 
the war.

But, despite the few loud voices who raise objections to this bill, I 
am certain the majority of my colleagues support this measure because 
this is a good bill which provides essential funding to provide for the 
common defense.

I think we should remind ourselves that at midnight tonight the 
continuing resolution providing stopgap funding will expire. Tomorrow 
morning, if it is not clear that the Congress will pass this measure, 
the Department of Defense will begin to take steps to shut down some of 
their functions worldwide. And I can assure you, it will be costly, it 
will be inefficient, and totally unnecessary.

The Senate has already voted overwhelmingly to cut off further debate 
on this measure. It is clear there is broad-based support. There is no 
reason to wait any longer.

As we sit here 1 week from Christmas, we are engaged in an extremely 
partisan debate in a highly charged atmosphere over our Nation's health 
care system. Both sides of the aisle feel passionately about this 
issue. I do not fault my colleagues who oppose that measure. But this 
defense bill is too important to be caught up in partisan politics. 
This bill was drafted in a bipartisan agreement, and I think we should 
recall that it was reported out of the Appropriations Committee by a 
vote of 30 to 0, unanimously. In both bodies of this Congress, the 
respective versions of the bill were supported overwhelmingly.

The compromise measure we are working on at this moment passed the 
House of Representatives by a 398-to-24 vote. That is almost unanimous, 
unheard of. So I plead with my colleagues, let's not force a wasteful 
shutdown of the Defense Department. Let's not continue the delay which 
has stalled action on this bill. And, above all, let's not raise doubts 
in the minds of our military men and women worldwide, who would follow 
our actions, and make them question us: Do we support them? Instead, 
let's come together in the bipartisan spirit in which this bill was 
created and crafted and vote to pass it today.

As in ancient times, it was said: Peace on Earth, good will to all 
men.

Mr. President, I would like to submit a short list of technical 
corrections to the Disclosure of Congressionally Directed Spending 
Items report that is attached to the explanatory statement for H.R. 
3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for fiscal year 
2010. The following corrections are necessary to provide the most 
accurate description of congressionally directed spending items in this 
bill.

Senators Bingaman and Udall of New Mexico should be removed from the 
list of sponsors for the Advance Propulsion Non-Tactical Vehicle in 
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force.

Senator Reed should be added in support of the Standoff Sensors, 
Detection of Explosives and Explosive Devices--IEDs--in Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation, Army.

Senator Schumer should be added in support of the WMD Civil Support 
Team for New York in National Guard Personnel, Army.

Senators Crapo and Risch should be added in support of the Radiation 
Hardened Cryogenic Read Out Integrated Circuits in the Defense 
Production Act account.

I yield the floor, Mr. President.