---
---

# SUPPORTING VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS DAY
## `0d181a27c02fc0e5067d32bd499d1102`
`Mr. CLAY — 27 July 2009`

---


Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to rise today in support of 
House Resolution 483, a bill supporting the goals and ideals of 
Veterans of Foreign Wars Day. Every day more and more brave Americans 
join the ranks of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and they deserve every 
ounce of praise we can possibly provide.

I would like to thank my colleague, the Honorable John Kline from 
Minnesota, for introducing this important resolution. I would also like 
to thank Chairman Towns and my colleagues on the Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform for bringing this bill to the floor.

Just before the turn of the 20th century, the United States was 
called upon to defend the hemisphere in the Spanish-American War. 
American troops fought valiantly and emerged victorious in this, our 
first modern foreign conflict. On September 20, 1899, the American 
Veterans of Foreign Service was established to guarantee that troops 
receive the benefits to which they were entitled.

The following decades demanded millions of young Americans, men and 
women, heed their Nation's call for service. War against fascism and 
tyranny in Europe, first in 1917, and again in 1941, proved that 
American soldiers are the greatest protectors of freedom in the world. 
When they returned home, the troops were greeted by the Veterans of 
Foreign Wars.

The organization was and continues to be a vital advocate for 
veterans' well-being. It helped establish, among other things, the GI 
Bill, which provided college education for all veterans and fueled the 
greatest economic boom our Nation had ever seen.

In 2008, the VFW was instrumental in passing a 21st century GI Bill 
to continue to provide educational assistance to servicemen and -women 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.

Today, the Veterans of Foreign Wars and its auxiliaries represent 2.2 
million veterans. With 8,100 locations worldwide, help is never far 
away from those who deserve it most.

The Veterans of Foreign Wars' mission is to ''Honor the dead by 
helping the living.'' For 110 years they have done just that. For this, 
I send my personal gratitude.

I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing the invaluable work of 
the VFW and support House Resolution 483.

I reserve the balance of my time.