# None
## `0d182427cdfa650c938694f0bf6c7848`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio â€” 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. While we are hitting on the war, I think it is 
important for us to maybe go back and reevaluate


why the Democrats have the position of redeploy out, wind this thing 
down, and I think it is important for us to go through some of the 
numbers.

Mr. Meek had already mentioned the number of troops killed. We have 
had another nine that were killed in the last couple of days, and our 
hearts and prayers go out to all the families that have been affected 
by this and who have lost soldiers over there. The most heartbreaking 
thing we have to do is go to these funerals and see a 20-year old kid 
who has been married for a year with a 7-month-old son or daughter.

It is heartbreaking when we don't even know what winning is. Ask the 
President. What is winning this war? What does that mean now? We can't 
really get an answer from the President.

But a couple of things, why we think the President and his policies 
have made this situation worse. The number of insurgents in Iraq in 
2003 was 5,000. The number of insurgents in Iraq in March of 2007 is 
70,000, all Sunni, mostly Sunni. What I love now is the President is 
starting to say, Mr. Speaker, ''bin Laden is now saying we need to 
attack Americans in Iraq. See why we got to stay there?''

No kidding. Right? No kidding. Bin Laden? Of course. We have 150,000 
soldiers in a war zone. Of course, bin Laden is going to say go hit 
them over there.

But the problem is that we are creating more terrorists. And if you 
are trying to win the hearts and minds of people, okay, the number of 
civilian casualties in Iraq since the invasion, estimates range from 
54,000 to 76,000. Those are innocent civilians in Iraq. Do you think we 
are going to be able to go over there and win their hearts and minds if 
we are killing innocent civilians with the bombs we are dropping? This 
needs to be won diplomatically. When it needs to be won diplomatically, 
it becomes very difficult when you have 50,000 to 75,000 civilian 
casualties.

One more thing, and then I will wrap my portion up here. The average 
daily number of daily attacks by insurgents in July of 2003 was 16 
daily attacks in 2003. The number of daily attacks by insurgents 
between November of 2006 and February of 2007, 149. From 16 to 149. We 
are aggravating the situation. We are making it worse, and the surge is 
making it worse.

I yield back to my friend.