---
---

# None
## `0d1d41c73144d5678325c6f3ffee6761`
`Mr. HODES — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. I thank the gentleman.

You know, I was hopeful that we could bring both sides of this House 
together on this bill because our goal is a common goal, to achieve 
real strength and real security for America.

We all honor our troops. We have a difference in opinion, apparently 
along party lines primarily, about how best to achieve that. Our 
friends on the other side of the aisle, and the President, apparently, 
think that an open-ended commitment and putting more troops into a city 
of 7 million people into a civil war is the way to do it. We believe 
that there is a smarter way to help the Iraqis step up and to achieve 
that security.

Let me just talk briefly about what this bill does, because it really 
does three important things. First, it adopts the military's own 
guidelines for troop readiness, training and equipment. We've been 
sending our soldiers without the right equipment, without adequate 
training, and without enough


rest between deployments. They're stretched. They've been deployed two 
times, three times, four times. The length of their deployments have 
been stretched. And we've adopted the military's own guidelines to say 
that before troops are sent to Iraq they must be properly equipped, 
they've got to be trained, they've got to be ready to go.

I can't understand why the President would veto a bill that adopts 
the military's own guidelines for troop readiness. Because by his veto, 
he will therefore be rejecting the military's guidelines for troop 
readiness. He will be saying to the American people, I am perfectly 
satisfied with sending troops that aren't ready into combat.

The second thing this does is it fully funds the troops, as we have 
said. In fact, it provides $4 billion more than the President asked 
directly to the troops. So if he vetoes the bill, he will essentially 
be saying I'm vetoing, I'm rejecting funding for our troops. I am 
rejecting the funding that he asked for. I don't understand how he will 
do that, but that's what his veto will mean.

And finally, we provide a responsible way to redeploy that actually 
answers the concerns that people had about flexibility for our military 
commanders on the ground. Because what we do is we set a date based on 
benchmarks for the Iraqis that the President himself set out in a 
January 10 speech for the beginning of a strategic redeployment, and we 
give the military commanders the flexibility on the other end to reach 
the target goals. So if the President vetoes his own announced 
benchmarks for the Iraqis, I just don't understand it because he will 
be vetoing what he said in a speech to the American people on January 
10 as his idea about what the Iraqis ought to be doing for themselves. 
He set the benchmarks, and now he said that he intends to veto his own 
benchmarks. It's beyond me to understand why he's going to veto what he 
said he wants to do.

If I can just go on for one more moment. I want to talk about some of 
the other money in this bill because this is really important. People 
have complained, I've heard it at home, about what they think is excess 
domestic spending in this bill. But here's what this bill does in terms 
of funding that is related to supporting our troops.

This bill provides $3 billion more for mine-resistant ambush-
protected vehicles for troops in Iraq.