# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `0d21df0d106f466dcbe398e49ae631f4`
`Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California — 14 February 2007`

---


Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution and in 
opposition to the President's decision to send more of our troops to 
Iraq.

I was against this war from the onset. On October 10, 2002, I was one 
of


the few who voted against the resolution authorizing the President to 
use military force in Iraq. But the authorization passed, and we went 
to war. At that point we supported our troops and we wanted to win, and 
we want win. And I have voted for every appropriation bill to give our 
troops what they need to achieve their mission.

So here we are, more than 4 years later, and what do we have to show 
for this war? Violence in Iraq continues to skyrocket. This past 
December was the deadliest month for Iraqi civilians since the war 
began.

Over the course of this war, 45,000 to 65,000 Iraqi civilians have 
lost their lives, maybe more; we really don't know, because nobody is 
counting here in America. And over 3,000 brave American troops, men and 
women in our Armed Forces, have lost their lives. My home State of 
California sends the most to the services. We alone have lost 325 men 
and women in Iraq, and we have sustained about 2,500 injuries to our 
military personnel, more than any other State in the United States.

And Iraqis have paid the price. Our military, their families; the 
families of our military are the ones sacrificing in this war. They 
have paid the price, and our country has paid the price for this 
President's war.

Yet Iraq is less secure than ever, even before the President's 
''mission accomplished'' declaration. There is no functioning 
infrastructure, no banking system, zero economic stability. Iraq is not 
secure, Baghdad is not secure. The Iraq Study Group reported that the 
President's strategy in Iraq is failing. It is failing.

And how does our President respond? With more of the same. He wants 
to send 21,500 more of our men and women into Iraq to carry out the 
same failure.

The President has failed to articulate what these new troops will do 
that is different from what has been done over the past few years. What 
is his plan? Four surges? Four surges that didn't work. He wants to do 
it again?

And believe me, sitting on the Armed Services Committee, I have been 
here to see it. I was the one in the first few months who told General 
Franks, this is an insurgency, it is guerrilla warfare. He refused to 
call it that. I was the one that went to Iraq when General Odierno told 
me there were only 359 insurgents left, that we were almost there, 
while the day before, his boss, Abizaid, had said he thought there were 
about 5,000. That was 2 years ago.

I was there when Secretary Rumsfeld was saying we have trained 
89,000; 2 days later, 95,000; a week later, 160,000 Iraqi Army. This 
was 2 years ago. Just pulling numbers out of the air, that is what they 
were doing to America.

And I was there in Iraq the day that General Petraeus, who was 
successful in Mosul, and then Mosul fell because he pulled his troops 
from there to Fallujah, and to try to take Fallujah. And he said to me 
with tears in his eyes, We couldn't hold Mosul because we had to take 
the troops to go to Fallujah.



At that point he said, We didn't have enough troops. But the 
President didn't listen. The President fails to grasp that military 
action alone is not sufficient to stabilize Iraq. And without a 
legitimate diplomatic component, there will be no end to the civil war 
in Iraq. But the President has refused to engage the powers in the 
region. He has outright rejected the notion of dialogue with Iran and 
Syria, a key suggestion from the Iraq Study Group. It is not the role 
of Congress to command our forces. That is the constitutional 
responsibility given to the Commander in Chief. But he has to do it 
right. And we have to hold him accountable for our failures in Iraq.

As Commander-in-Chief, that responsibility is up to President Bush.

The President must be frank with Congress and with the American 
people, and admit that the strategy in Iraq to date has been a complete 
failure.

The President must come up with a new strategy to stabilize the 
situation in Iraq, one that ends with the redeployment of our troops 
home. What is his plan?

My message for the President is this:

The voters have told you, Mr. President, that they have had enough of 
your failed strategy in Iraq.

And today, Mr. President, this Congress is telling you that we too 
have had enough of your failed strategy in Iraq.

Our troops deserve more from you. You have ignored the American 
people's wishes. You have ignored the Iraq Study Group's 
recommendations.

Today, I hope you will not ignore this Congress. I hope you will not 
send any more of our Armed Forces into harm's way, until you have a 
plan to win.

Our military is the strongest and most capable in the world, but they 
cannot continue to be overextended and asked to participate in your 
failing strategy.

 Mr. President, I ask you to listen to the American people, the Iraq 
Study Group, and this Congress.

We are telling you clearly that we do not want you to send any more 
troops to participate in a failing strategy. It is your responsibility 
as the Commander-in-Chief, to come up with an actual plan to stabilize 
Iraq and begin bringing our troops home to their families.