---
---

# None
## `0d22086930280423ffa3067aea95ea22`
`Mr. SANDERS — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, like many of my colleagues, I worked very 
hard to assure that, given the veto threats of President Bush, the 
Omnibus appropriations bill was as strong as it could be. In that 
regard, we have made some real progress. Unfortunately,


however, this bill contains $40 billion for Iraq operations, with no 
strings attached the money to be used as the President wishes, with no 
accountability for when our involvement in Iraq will end. With 
expenditures of $12 billion a month, it is now estimated that the total 
cost of our Iraq involvement will end up being more than $1 trillion.

I cannot support providing more money for continuing our ill-
conceived and tragic presence in Iraq, money provided with no 
requirement for plans as to when the redeployment will begin, when it 
will be concluded, and what our future course in Iraq will be. 
Consequently, I will vote against the Omnibus appropriations bill.

My vote against this bill also reflects genuine concern regarding 
last-minute additions of loan guarantees for questionable energy 
sources, which move us in exactly the wrong direction. More 
specifically, the report language accompanying the Omnibus 
appropriations bill provides $18.5 billion in loan guarantees for 
nuclear powerplants, $2.0 billion in loan guarantees for uranium 
enrichment, $6.0 billion in loan guarantees for coal, which I have 
reason to believe includes coal to liquids, and $2.0 billion in loan 
guarantees for coal gasification, which I also fear could be used for 
coal to liquids. It is, quite frankly, beyond belief that we would be 
passing legislation to support these questionable energy sources. In my 
view, we should be doing everything we can to transform our energy 
system so as to move away from unsafe and polluting sources to energy 
efficiency and sustainable and renewable technologies. Congress can, 
and must, do better.