# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `0d27504100f8bf9fb89f31753f3b8b0c`
`Mr. GOHMERT â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Indiana. I 
appreciate the opportunity to engage in this debate.

Mr. Speaker, like many others here, previously I typed up different 
potential remarks for this debate. But as I have listened to the debate 
over the last couple of days, I kept hearing some things being said 
over and over


again, and I started making notes of some of the things I just really 
need to address.

As the old saying goes, we are all entitled to our own opinion, but 
we are not entitled to our own set of facts. Facts are facts.



One of the things I have heard over and over the last couple of days, 
well, it goes without saying. Normally in reference to we support our 
troops, it goes without saying. If there is anything I have noticed 
since I left the bench and came to Congress is that nothing goes 
without saying in this House . Everything gets said and seems like gets 
said over and over again. Nothing goes without being said.

But let us talk about that. It goes without saying we support our 
troops. That has stirred up a great deal of debate and animosity at one 
point, and led usually into things about the lies the President told 
before this war, lies the President told before this war. Well, look, 
some of us believe in forgiveness.

I think there is still potential disagreement. Obviously we know that 
Saddam had weapons of mass destruction. He killed thousands of Kurds, 
gassed thousands of people. Certainly he was killing with mass 
destruction, but if you happen to believe really, honestly, truthfully 
that the President lied, then it is time to forgive President Clinton 
for all those lies. Forgive Madeleine Albright for all those lies. All 
the time, Madeleine Albright and Bill Clinton told us over and over 
again that there were weapons of mass destruction, and if President 
Bush happened to have believed President Clinton and Madeleine Albright 
and those people that were saying there were weapons of mass 
destruction in Iraq, well, I guess they just should not have believed 
the Clinton administration.

But there were things that the Clinton administration could base that 
on, but we have got to get past that. It just seems to engender so much 
hatred.

I have heard people say over and over this is a historic debate 
because the Republicans never allowed this debate when they were in the 
majority. I remember having discussions like this twice in the last 
Congress. We voted on a couple of resolutions, and people would say one 
thing and then end up voting another on the resolution.

Now, I did hear one of my friends across the aisle say something I do 
agree with. He said he did not believe it was appropriate to tell 
troops they were coming home on a certain date and then change that. I 
agree, and a number of us have been pointing that out to those in the 
military and to the White House. That needs to stop. When you tell 
somebody who is in harm's way you are coming home on a certain date, 
they need to come home. We can agree on that.

But then I heard another say, we need to avoid a constitutional 
crisis by shocking this President into a new course of action. You 
shocked him into a new course of action. He said we are going to send 
21,000 troops over there, 21,500. In fact, people like Harry Reid down 
in the Senate have been calling for that last fall, maybe even as 
recently as December, but oh, wait, as soon as the President calls for 
it, then it is a terrible thing; we cannot believe that he is doing 
this.

So the President has proposed something new. His commanders in the 
field have said we need this, and so it is being done. We have got 
troops already arriving and more arriving all the time.

I heard another one make reference to Vietnam, and one in indignation 
said, have we not learned anything from Vietnam? I would submit, I 
believe, Mr. Speaker, apparently not, because some people want to 
rewrite history; but the fact is, if you go back, the people were 
saying get out of Vietnam, get out of Vietnam are the same people 
saying this now in Iraq, and so President Nixon tried to get folks out. 
For all his faults, and he did have plenty, and you will not hear me 
say I think he was a great President because he lied, but one of the 
things he did try to do, he saw the polls and started trying to get 
people out of Vietnam.

When we started the Paris peace talks, things broke down. It was not 
going well. He decided to bomb North Vietnam. He went on the attack. He 
was carpet-bombing Hanoi, and as Sam Johnson and those who were in the 
Hanoi Hilton said, they were worried they might be hit by the bombs, 
but they were so glad, finally the United States was reacting and 
responding, and as Sam says, when he left, to get the chronology 
correct, the bombing went on. They came back to the peace talks, and we 
reached terms, and the POWs, most of them were coming home. Sam said 
one of the leaders at the prison said, you know, if you guys had just 
kept bombing a little longer, we would have had to surrender 
completely.

That was a winnable war, but people were not doing what it took to 
win so that we could have a good reputation. If you go look at our 
enemies and al Qaeda's, the rhetoric now in Iraq, Afghanistan, around 
the Middle East, they are saying look at what they did in Vietnam. They 
promised their allies they were going to stick with them.

Gerald Ford has been quoted recently. What a fine man. I hear people 
on both sides of the aisle at his funeral and after his death. He 
begged this Congress and this House please do not cut off the funding; 
we promised them funding even after we pulled our troops out. But this 
Congress said, no, we are cutting the funding, and we have been harmed 
ever since.

So in 1979, in Iran, they were bold enough to attack. An act of war, 
that is what attacking an embassy is, and I was at Fort Benning at that 
time. Nobody was dying to go to Iran, but everybody I knew was willing 
to go and die because we had been attacked, and that was the first act 
of war in this war involving terror, and we did not respond.

We did not respond in 1983 when our barracks were attacked and our 
marines were killed. We withdrew 1991, on through the 1990s. We have 
not responded, but I want to touch on one other thing.

I saw the majority leader come down. I saw it replayed in the wee 
hours this morning. I did not realize it went on, and he came down and 
challenged what Heather Wilson, who had left the floor, said, and 
ultimately said basically, that anybody that would come and say, as she 
did, that there might be a problem with Democrats being willing to 
support and fund the troops as needed, and he said to come and say 
anything of that nature was just not honest. I think it comes close to 
violating the rules if it does not, but the fact is Heather Wilson had 
stood right here and she had asked her Democratic friends across the 
aisle, look, if you are really willing to say that, if you are saying 
that this resolution means we will always provide everything that is 
needed to our troops in harm's way, let us put it in the resolution. We 
will have a unanimous-consent amendment, we will both agree, and it was 
not agreed. The Democratic majority would not agree. The Rules 
Committee did not agree. The Democratic leadership did not want that in 
there.

So, to say it goes without saying ain't the way it should be. It 
ought to be in print. It ought to be here said in black and white 
because Heather Wilson was right: if you really believe that, put it in 
black and white where our troops can see, and I would just in 
conclusion leave you with this: this resolution for what it does and 
does not do, it is a stay the course, stiffen the enemy, start our 
collapse, and you look at our friend Mr. Murtha's comments to say, that 
is what this starts the process for doing.