# VETERANS' SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE AND SERVICEMEMBERS PROTECTION ACT  OF 2009
## `0d5d11004bbb89acb74c1515dea2578b`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 2 November 2009`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. Speaker, this is a sad day for me 
because it is close to the anniversary of the death in Iraq of a very 
brave young man, Corey Shea, whose picture is here.

He was killed in Iraq just the day after Veterans Day of last year, 
and I went to the funeral, along with my colleague Senator Kerry, to 
the town of Mansfield, Massachusetts. Like I think most Members, I try 
very hard to attend the funeral of every young man and woman who is 
killed in the service of the country. It's the least we can do. It's 
not a great deal, but it's the least we can do to show a small piece of 
the gratitude we feel to those people and our obligation to their 
families.

Also, it seems to me, anybody in our position who has to vote on 
going to war needs to fully understand the consequences of those votes, 
and going to the funerals of the young people killed in those wars 
ought to be mandatory for any of us who vote. That doesn't mean you 
don't vote for the war. I voted for the war in Afghanistan. I've been 
to funerals of people killed there. But it is an important thing to 
hammer home.

In this case at the funeral I met an extraordinary woman, Denise 
Anderson, the mother of Corey Shea, who was, in her grief at the loss 
of her wonderful young son, further concerned because he would be 
buried alone.

His country took him when he was too young to have married or raised 
a family. So under the rules of eligibility for burial at a veterans 
cemetery, he was to be buried alone. His mother said as bad as it was 
for her to lose her son, the thought that he would be alone forever 
added greatly to her pain. So she had asked if she could be buried with 
him, and she was turned down.

Now, under the rules a member of the military eligible to be buried 
in a national cemetery who has a spouse with children can have up to 
three parts used. So we're not taking anything away from someone. In 
Corey Shea's case, this wonderful young man who lost his life has three 
parts available, and his mother simply asked to be allowed to use one 
of them. She was turned down.

At that point Senator Kerry and I decided to see what we could do. So 
we filed legislation to alleviate that, and I am enormously grateful to 
all members from both parties in the Committee on Veterans' Affairs for 
the speed with which they acted and the grace they showed to this 
brave, grieving mother. And I am very pleased that the bill which we 
would dare concur in, called the Corey Shea Act, is going to be 
included in this package.

Mr. Speaker, rather than go further myself, I'm going to read the 
testimony that Denise Anderson, the mother of Corey Shea, presented to 
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs. We obviously exhausted our 
remedies, I should say. She applied. Only after it was clear that only 
legislation would work did we file a bill.

And, of course, I should point out, as a tribute to Denise Anderson, 
this isn't a bill just for her and her son who lost his life. It's a 
bill for any parent of any young member of the military who will know 
at least that that's available to him or to her.

So nearly a year after her son was killed in Iraq, she had the 
opportunity to address the committee, and here's what she said:

''I stand before you humbly asking you to pass or amend this bill 
number H.R. 761. This would allow me to be interred with my son, who 
was killed in action in Mosul, Iraq on November 12, 2008. He sacrificed 
his life for his country, and I sacrifice every day being without him.

''My son, Corey, had a heart as big as the world. He would be the 
first one to volunteer or help someone in need. But he would always 
hesitate to ask for help. He was a lot like me in that way, but today I 
show my passion for this bill by standing in front of you asking for 
your help. If you knew my son, you would understand what kind of person 
he was. He was a very respectful young man who would do anything for 
anybody. He was my heart and soul, and I cannot express the bond 
between us. If you have children, you might understand, but losing a 
child is against nature and he should be burying me.

''I was a single parent until Corey was about 8 years old. His 
biological father was not around. In fact, he was in prison. He never 
paid child support, and I worked over 60 hours a week just to support 
him and make sure he had everything he needed. Jeff took over the job 
of stepfather and Corey gladly accepted him. When he came home on 
leave, we would stay up until the sun came up. I did not want to miss a 
minute with him.

''My son was killed by an Iraqi soldier. These soldiers are supposed 
to be working with our troops over in Iraq. He was an Iraqi soldier for 
4 years before turning on our soldiers. On that terrible day, he killed 
two soldiers, including my son, and wounded six other American 
soldiers.

''I was not home when the Army came to my door, but my 18-year-old


daughter was there. She is a very intelligent person and knew why they 
were there. She called me, not telling me what was going on, which was 
probably a good thing. But when I arrived home, the Mansfield police 
and the Army vehicle were parked in front of my home. My son had only a 
month left on his first tour, and he would have been home. After 
passing out, the police called the paramedics, who took me to the 
hospital.

''The whole town came together for Corey. They were so involved with 
his funeral, and it was very heartfelt. My son was the only and 
hopefully the only soldier who passed away during this war in 
Mansfield. He is a Mansfield hero. I belong to the VFW in Mansfield, 
Massachusetts, and I have spoken to many veterans that are members 
there, and they don't have a problem with me being interred with my 
son. In fact, everyone I spoke with doesn't haven't a problem.

''This amendment would not be taking up any other deserving space for 
other veterans. My son has three extra plots, but he was not married 
nor did he have any dependents. He did not have time, since, like I 
said, he was a child himself.

''I could speak all day regarding my son and what a wonderful and 
respectful young man he was. But I am here to ask you to amend the bill 
number H.R. 761. If you decide to pass this, it would give me some 
peace in my life to which I can pay more attention to my husband and 
daughter, whom I feel I have been neglecting. I could finally be able 
to move forward in my life just knowing I can spend eternity with my 
son.

''Please listen with your hearts and amend this bill. I appreciate 
your time listening to me today. This may be a minimal issue with you, 
but it means everything to me.

''Thank you for your attention in this matter.

''Denise Anderson, proud mother of Specialist Corey Shea, my warrior 
hero and wonderful son.''

I would only say the one difference I would have with Mrs. Anderson 
is no one here takes this as a minimal issue. We are grateful to her 
for giving us one more chance to show in a small way how much we honor 
those who have lost their lives.

I will just repeat one thing I said, Mr. Speaker, in the testimony. I 
cannot think of a greater disproportion than what Denise Anderson gave 
to us, her son, and what she has asked us to give in return. I am 
pleased that at least the House will be doing that today.

