---
---

# AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009
## `0d6ef3d6938fd94fa3db23f0ccd8a246`
`Mr. ROCKEFELLER — 7 February 2009`

---


Mr. ROCKEFELLER. I thank the Presiding Officer.

Mr. President, I wish to clear up a couple of quick points. I think I 
will be the last speaker from our side, and I am not sure about the 
other side. But we have until 3:30, and I will not speak that long.

I think it is important to point out a couple things.

No. 1, the point has been made that we rushed this thing and we are 
jamming it down the throats of people. Well, first of all, if we are 
doing that, we are not doing it in quite as numerically an advantageous 
way as we should.

Secondly, I think two of the most important committees that handle 
this whole matter--the Finance Committee and the Appropriations 
Committee--have been through full markup, have had hearings on this. I 
remember our markup in the Senate Finance Committee lasted 12 
consecutive hours on our section of this bill. So it has been very well 
thought through. It has been very well debated. Amendments have been 
raised. Amendments have been rejected. We had 45 votes on the floor 
about this. They have been debated back and forth. They have been 
discussed. It is not clear to me if we did this for another week that 
we would be any wiser or we would have any crisper or more targeted 
bill than we have today.

The second point I wish to make is, when it is pointed out that as a 
percentage of total spending State spending is doubled, tripled, and 
all the rest of this--as if the States have been acting in some kind of 
very irresponsible fashion--I was a Governor. And Governors are capable 
of doing that from time to time. But I want to point out that as a 
percentage of total spending, State spending has not increased at a 
greater rate than any other of the sectors in our economy. It is just 
that the price of health care and the price of everything else--
inflation, all of it--has caused that. So people can say it is a $1.2 
trillion bill, but that does not take into account all the reasons I 
have enumerated.

There are a lot of costs that are going to go up, and that is why at 
the end of a period of time it may be that, but we are not voting on 
something which is 5 years in the future or 8 years in the future. We 
are voting on something which has to take effect right now.

That brings me to what I want to say, and that is two points. We have 
wandered, it seems to me, a bit in this debate away from the people who 
I think haunt us in their tragedy. I regret that. People have talked 
about individual amendments they want to get. There is an enormous--42 
percent of it is in tax cuts. That is probably more than most Democrats 
would do. But, on the other hand, the tax cuts tend to be more toward 
the middle class and small business, which is what the ranking member 
of the Finance Committee wants. He wants more, and I understand that. 
But we all want more or less of something. But what we do not want is 
for the American people to suffer, as they are now suffering. That is 
the only reason we are here. It is the only reason we are here.

This is only the beginning. We have at least two other major bills we 
are going to have that are going to require a lot of money that we are 
going to have to deal with. This is the first one. This is our first 
test. I think it is extraordinary, the point the Senator from Florida 
made, and others have made, that it took three Republicans and one 
Democrat to come together in essence to put forward a bill which I 
think is going to end up passing if we can work out our differences 
with the House in conference, which I think we will be able to do.

Now, why do I say this? I say this because we have no choice but to 
come to the aid of the American people. I am not saying that Government 
spending is the answer to everything, as I am not saying that tax cuts 
are also the answer to everything. And incentives are good. The tax 
cuts over the last 8 years, which went to primarily people who did not 
need those tax cuts--I do not think that ended up in more jobs. It may 
have ended up in more money and, therefore, more income tax revenue for 
the Government, but it was not stimulative in the way we are trying to 
do today.

So we want jobs. We want road construction. We want education. We 
have had to cut--I have my list of tragedy here of all of the programs 
we have had to cut in order to meet the needs of the more moderate 
bill, the $780 billion bill. I look down at this list, and I look at so 
many programs that I think need to be increased. But then I stop and I 
think: Well, they are being increased. They are not being increased by 
as much as the Democrats, as a main, wanted, and so we call them what 
is stated here: ''Quick Review of Cuts Made.'' That is not cuts made to 
the program from where they are now. That is cuts made to where we 
wanted to put them.

Why did we want to put them there? Because that would help stimulate 
the economy and to bring more jobs to our people. You cannot make light 
of this. You cannot talk about this without talking about what is 
happening to American families. You cannot do that. I come from a State 
which is not wealthy but which is full of incredibly hard-working 
people, incredibly hard-working people who have been working hard all 
their lives to stay afloat because that is the nature of our State and 
it is the nature of our topography, it is the nature of the resources 
we have and the way they have been handled. So, yes, I battle for them 
and, on the other hand, I also have to battle for the entire Nation 
through this program because we all live or die together.

Part of this is in the mind. People have to have confidence that the 
Senate has passed a bill and that we are moving in the right direction. 
It is not a question just of supporting a President from a Senator from 
this side of the aisle who happens to be a Democrat. It is a question 
of doing the right thing by the American people. And if it takes as 
many billions of dollars--$780 billion--to do that, then I say we have 
to do it. We have no choice.

Sometimes I have the feeling from the other side that what they want 
to do is adjust a number of amendments to increase the number of tax 
cuts, but that the plight of the American people is talked about, is 
used in not rhetoric but in their words, and used stirringly, but their 
real thinking is not there, it is in getting more to the way the other 
party has chosen to see progress hopefully happen in this country, and 
that is through tax cuts.

I cannot help but reiterate what has been said; that is, when 
President Clinton left office, he left a $5.6 trillion surplus. To some 
degree, I criticized him for something he actually could not have done 
but he could have done morally, and that is to go to the Congress, call 
a special session or whatever, and say: We have $5.6 trillion. We also 
have a whole world to confront, wars to fight, an entire Nation to 
rebuild--which was going to be my second point--and we can start right 
now doing that. That was while the economy was still prosperous. He was 
still President.

Then we entered into this massive period of borrowing for wars, which 
the intelligence showed was not right in this Senator's judgment. And 
now we are in Afghanistan and now we are in Pakistan, and who knows 
where it will stop. Well, al-Qaida is in 50 or 60 other countries, so 
it may not stop for quite a while.

I will say to the Presiding Officer, I can remember when I was a 
Peace Corps volunteer in the Philippines. I suspect the Presiding 
Officer had not been born yet. I was in the southern part of Mindanao 
in the city called Zamboanga City. It is the headquarters of Abu 
Sayyaf, who is the al-Qaida leader for Southeast Asia, and all of the 
same kind of slaughtering and mass killing between ethnic groups or 
religious groups was taking place then.

It is taking place all over the world--has been for centuries. You 
can go back to the English kings and the way they tortured people. What 
we do in this country is not something we can always be proud of. So it 
is the nature of people to fight.

The whole question of the war on terror, on one hand, trying to 
control


that, but then, on the other hand, how do we mitigate the need for it, 
gets into questions of something that nobody wants to talk 
about. Nobody ever has wanted to talk about it, and that is substantial 
amounts of foreign aid, to give people in other countries a feeling 
that we care about more than just killing high-value targets or 
Guantanamo or whatever, but we care about their lives.


First, we have to start by showing the American people that we care 
about their lives. That is why we are here. This is the first of three 
bills. This bill has to pass. This bill is a good bill. It is not the 
bill I would have written. There are cuts made which are very painful 
to me in terms of not just my State objective, but also my 
responsibilities in the Senate over the Commerce Committee and then 
over the Intelligence Committee. But we have to do that. We have to do 
that. We have to do that because people are suffering. When people are 
suffering, they turn to their ministers for a while, but essentially 
they know it is only the government that can come in, in emergencies, 
in critical situations, in desperate situations, and infuse money in 
certain areas which will create jobs.

Now, the President has been very clear that some of these jobs will 
come more quickly, saying a lot of them will--and a lot of the tax cuts 
will become available by September of next year. That is some time. A 
lot of them before that. Some of the jobs would not take place right 
away because you can't suddenly build a bridge. You have to have your 
plans, they all have to work, and it takes time. But we have to do 
that. We have to do that. We have to put people back to work. People 
without work who can work and who have families to support have no 
reason to have hope. If they give up hope, then they become part of not 
just people who are unemployed but people who have given up on 
employment, and they don't show up in the unemployment figures. They 
are called the people who have given up.

My own feeling is the unemployment rate is probably closer to 13 or 
14 percent in this country right now. A lot of people have just lost 
all hope. They are the same people, they have the same values, the same 
families as others do.

So I hope we can pass this bill. I hope this is not a matter of 
anytime the Government intervenes, it wastes money. When the Government 
intervenes, sometimes, yes, it does. When Wall Street gives out bonuses 
and takes trips to spas and things of that sort, I call that wasting 
money, and I think we are paying attention to that. So it is part of 
human nature. Yet I think we are going to have an enormous effort on 
oversight of this program. I know the President is, I know the Congress 
will, so that as little money as possible will be wasted and people 
will get back to work.

Work is what people want to do. Work is what gives people dignity. I 
remember that from my early days in West Virginia when I went to a 
place where nobody had work and they couldn't hold their heads up high. 
Sometimes even people I love and who changed my life, who were what I 
call my secular rebirth in life, sometimes the men, when we had 
community meetings, would squat on their haunches and face away from 
the meeting. Psychologically, they were saying: I don't really believe 
what is going to come out of this is going to help me. I am here 
because you asked me to come, but I am not really here because I don't 
have faith.

We have to restore that faith, and we do that by giving people a 
sense that things are on the move, that things are going to get better, 
that bills pass as opposed to fail.

I don't want to see a bill which is mostly passed by Democratic votes 
and with a very few Republican votes. I don't want to see that. I will 
take it because it will get the program under way, but it is not the 
way it should be. Senator Nelson is correct. This looming partisanship 
is still a part of our problem in the Senate. The discipline of the 
party on the other side is usually a bit better than the party on my 
side, so they can be very effective in slowing things down, as I think 
we have seen.

The last point I wish to make is, this is not just a matter of 
helping people in desperate need and helping them as quickly as 
possible. Nonaction is not an option. Standing by and watching is not 
an option. It doesn't do any good for anybody to vote against this 
bill, even if it isn't what they want, because it will create activity. 
It will create confidence. It will create momentum.

The final point I wish to make is, it will create something more. We 
need in this country--and we have needed it for a long time, and it is 
why I wish President Clinton had taken that $5.6 trillion, pulled us 
all together and said, OK, we are going to spend 4 trillion of these 
dollars on re-creating America, re-creating schools, re-creating higher 
education, science and technology, re-creating a sense of fairness. 
Yes, arts, yes--not just $20 million contracts for athletes but people 
who add to the luster of our Nation. We have a long way to go. We don't 
have an air traffic control system which is digitalized. Mongolia is 
building them. We are behind Mongolia. Every other industrial country 
in the world has an air traffic control system which is digitalized and 
operates off a GPS system. Therefore, we have 33 percent more air 
traffic congestion than we need, and danger is increased. So we have to 
rebuild an entire Nation: elementary schools, secondary schools, high 
schools, colleges, postgraduate. We have to attract scholars into the 
areas where we need innovation. There is nothing like innovation. 
Senator Nelson knows this better than anybody because of what happens 
at NASA, but we need it.

We need people who want to serve in government. We want people to go 
into public service. If I had my way, I think I would probably get 
quite a few cosponsors who would say we ought to have a bill that 
requires every single American to take a period of 2 years out of their 
life and commit it to public service, community service. They could go 
into the military. They could go into teaching. They could go into 
nursing homes, home care, research, whatever, but 2 years out of their 
track so they could look at themselves and their country, so they 
wouldn't just be doing the same thing every day.

I was lucky to have that experience twice in my life, and it has made 
me a better person. I think it is the way you bring America together 
again so that you have everybody in the trenches together. Everyone is 
equal. The rich don't get a break; the poor don't get help. If they 
can't afford not to do this without help, then they get help. That 
would be expensive, but I think it is something this Nation needs in 
order to heal itself.

So let me end by saying we have absolutely no excuse whatsoever for 
not passing this bill or what comes out of the conference. We have no 
excuse. It would be a shame and an act of cruelty to do that to the 
American people who are now suffering. In the process of so doing, and 
of helping them, and of giving them some sense of hope about their own 
lives which, let's face it, is very important in how hard people choose 
to try and fight, participate in community affairs, and do all kinds of 
things. But we need to rebuild our Nation. If this crisis had never 
happened, I would be giving the second half of my speech. We have to 
rebuild the Nation, Mr. President, because we have let it slide over 
the last 50 years. Infrastructure is the most obvious example. I can 
name so many other areas. Broadband gets cut. That hurts me because 
that is the way people can achieve much faster communication, through 
the Internet. Long distance learning has been cut. It is still much 
more than it is now, but it has been cut from the original Democratic 
bill. That is the way people in a poor county in southern West Virginia 
learn Japanese from the University of Nebraska because they can do it 
online and then remake their careers and give themselves hope.

So I hope we will be large in our thinking, small in our politics, 
and generous and encouraging to the American people by passing the bill 
before us.

I thank the Chair and note the absence of a quorum.