---
---

# ECONOMIC OBSERVATIONS BY THE 43 MEMBER STRONG, FISCALLY CONSERVATIVE  DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `0d72e5838b8c6382f410b689d7d695bb`
`Mr. ROSS — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. The gentleman from Tennessee makes a very important point, 
and that is, look, I was here on 9/11 and shortly after the plane hit 
the Pentagon we were evacuated. A few hours later, I would learn a 
young Navy petty officer named Nehamin Lyons from Pine Bluff, Arkansas, 
would be among those killed on that tragic day that we now all refer to 
as 9/11.

And all of us, Democrats and Republicans, for the most part voted to 
go to Afghanistan to put an end to terrorism.

I will never forget later being invited to the White House September 
26, 2002, sitting in a cabinet room: Andy Card, Condoleezza Rice, about 
18 Members of Congress and the President. I have still got the notes I 
took that day, and the President told us that Saddam Hussein has 
weapons of mass destruction, trains terrorists on weapons of mass 
destruction, and if military force is used, it will be, in the 
President's words, swift. September 26, 2002.

And then a few months later, we saw the banner ''Mission 
Accomplished,'' and we thought, wow, it was swift. But now we know, and 
I am not one of these conspiracy theorists that believes the President 
misled us. I think he received bad intelligence and shared it with us; 
and until proven otherwise, that is what I will believe because 
anything other than that would be a very unfair and strong attempt at 
trying to say something that we do not know whether it is true or not. 
I have to assume he just received bad intelligence.

But I will tell you this: there is not a more difficult decision that 
Members of Congress have to make than whether or not to send our men 
and women in uniform into harm's way; and when we are asked and called 
upon to make those kind of decisions, we have got to know, we must know 
that our intelligence is correct.

So for the most part, we all voted to go there. We are now there. 
What do we do about it? You want to talk about supporting the troops, 
one of the ways that you support the troops is to stop moving the goal 
post, to stop moving the victory line.

We say we went there because of weapons of mass destruction. They no 
longer have them. We won.

Then they said, well, we have got to stay until we overthrow Saddam.



We won. They said we have to stay till we capture him. We pulled him 
out of that spider hole. We won. Then the administration said we have 
to stay till we assassinate him. We assassinate him until he is 
executed, put to death, and he was.

So, based on that, we won. Then they said, well, we have got to stay 
until the Iraqi people can have elections. They did. We won.

Yet, now they are saying that, you know, we have got to stay there, 
and it's, you know, the line they use now is it's better to fight the 
terrorists there than here. There weren't terrorists in Iraq. Saddam 
wouldn't put up with them. He chopped their heads off.

Obviously, there are terrorists there now, and there are those from 
other neighboring countries wanting to create havoc. But for the most 
part what we have today, as the gentleman from Tennessee indicated, is 
civil war. Nobody fought our civil war for us, and it's pretty apparent 
the Iraqis don't want us fighting their civil war for them.

Now, understand, we had 3,200 U.S. soldiers die there, 25,000 
injured, over 10,000 in ways that will forever change their lives. We 
are sending the Iraqis $12 million an hour. What do they think about 
us? Seventy-one percent don't want us there and 60 percent of them 
think it's okay to kill a U.S. soldier.

Contrast that with Afghanistan, where the Taliban is back on the 
rise. They are back training. We will spend more money in Iraq this 
month than we will spend in Afghanistan in the next 2/1/2/ years. We 
have 225,000 troops in the Iraqi region today, and the President wants 
to add 21,000 more. Yet we only have 25,000 in Afghanistan.

The Taliban is back, organizing and getting trained, and the 
mountains of Afghanistan are nothing more than a breeding ground for 
terrorists. This administration is so focused on Iraq that they are 
losing sight of what is going on in Afghanistan, where 84 percent of 
the people in Afghanistan do want us there.

I just wanted to throw that out there for any comment you might have, 
because I thought you made an excellent point about how we fought our 
Civil War, and it's time they accept responsibility and fight their 
own. We cannot continue to put our men and women in uniform on their 
front lines and have them standing behind us. It is time for them to 
step up, accept responsibilities, train their men and women, and put 
them in uniform. They need to fight this war, if they really want a 
taste of freedom. No one can give you that. You have got to get it 
country by country.