---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `0d7b46ee5dcf723522a89051f637d8ca`
`Mr. HULSHOF — 23 May 2008`

---


Mr. HULSHOF. Madam Speaker, I submit the following:

Requesting Member: Congressman Kenny Hulshof.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658, Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2009.

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E), Aviation 
Advanced Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Westar Aerospace & Defense Group, 
Inc., 4 Research Park Drive, St. Charles, MO 63304-5685; On behalf of: 
Aeromechanics Division, AMSRD-AMR-AE-A, Aviation Engineering 
Directorate, Bldg 4488 Redstone Arsenal, AL 35898-5000.

Address of Requesting Entity: Westar Aerospace & Defense Group, Inc., 
4 Research Park Drive, St. Charles, MO 63304-5685; Aeromechanics 
Division, AMSRD-AMR-AE-A, Aviation Engineering Directorate, Bldg 4488, 
Redstone Arsenal, AL 35898-5000.

Description of Request: To provide $10 million in funding to continue 
the development of integrated Aviation tools and provide this ability 
to all Army Aviation systems to include UH-60 series, OH-58D, AH-64D), 
Fixed Wing and UAS systems. The complete integrated aviation solution 
includes implementing the automated maintenance test flight tool, 
automated weight and balance software, and integration with current 
logistics and Aviation Mission Planning systems. These products are 
urgently needed by combat units in Operation Enduring Freedom and 
Operation Iraqi Freedom, and will result in significant increases in 
mission effectiveness and safety for our warfighters. These tools will 
be used by our military's aircraft operators to greatly improve their 
effectiveness and situational awareness, which will improve support to 
the warfighter from materiel developers.
