# CONDEMNING THE DECISION BY THE UNIVERSITY AND COLLEGE UNION OF THE  UNITED KINGDOM TO SUPPORT A BOYCOTT OF ISRAELI ACADEMIA
## `0d7f47dd430c8ea9632e06fdda26651d`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I thank the 
gentlelady from Texas for her leadership on this issue and the 
gentlelady from Florida.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to offer a resolution to let the world 
know that this House stands opposed to anti-Semitism and reaffirms our 
support for academic freedom. It is sad that in this day and age I 
would have to offer such a resolution, but the actions of a misguided 
group thousands of miles away have forced this body to act.

Madam Speaker, in May the leadership of the University and College 
Union, or UCU, the main union representing 120,000 British college 
teachers, called for a boycott of Israeli academic institutions. As a 
former professor myself at the United States Military Academy at West 
Point, I know how wrong this action is from an academic and diplomatic 
perspective.

This boycott will sever academic contacts and exchanges of personnel 
between British and Israeli academic institutions, as well as have a 
significant economic impact, given that the union enjoys significant 
influence in Britain.

The reasons given by the leadership of the UCU for endorsing a 
boycott consist of the same tired propaganda and inflammatory rhetoric 
typically used by the enemies of Israel and do not deserve to be 
repeated on the floor of this distinguished body. This call for a 
boycott by the UCU is even more disturbing, given that Britain's 
National Union of Journalists called for a similar boycott this past 
April.

It should come as no surprise that these boycotts have drawn harsh 
criticism. In a recent editorial entitled ''Malicious Boycotts,'' the 
New York Times called them nonsense, writing, and I quote, ''Who would 
respect the judgment of a scholar who selects or rejects colleagues on 
political grounds? Who would trust the dispatches of a reporter who has 
openly engaged against one side of a conflict? Critical thinking and 
well thought-out criticism are intrinsic to good scholarship and good 
journalism. These boycotts represent neither.''

The criticism, though, does not end there. Now former Prime Minister


Tony Blair has criticized the boycott saying, ''I hope very much that 
decision is overturned because it does absolutely no good for the peace 
process or for relations in that part of the world.''

Madam Speaker, the former Prime Minister is right. We need to build 
dialogue and trust in the Middle East and we cannot do that without our 
greatest ally there, the State of Israel. Israel is a stable democracy 
that shares our values. This is rare in a region of the world where few 
nations have democracy, rule of law and religious freedom.

As an Iraq war veteran, I know firsthand just how dangerous that part 
of the world truly is. That's why when Israel comes under attack from 
hatemongers, it's the American values that are also under such attack. 
Today, by passing this bipartisan resolution, we're stating with one 
voice that this Congress will stand up and defend our friend, the State 
of Israel.

Specifically, my resolution condemns the decision by the UCU 
leadership to boycott Israeli academia and urges the general membership 
to reject the boycott. It also urges the academic community and 
individual governments to reject any call for a boycott of Israel and 
to reaffirm the importance of academic freedom.

Limiting academic exchange and shrinking the marketplace of ideas 
only hinders our ability to bring peace to the Middle East and to help 
solve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

Madam Speaker, in closing, I want to make sure that I thank some of 
my distinguished colleagues who were instrumental in bringing this 
resolution to the floor today; the chairman of the Subcommittee on 
Europe, Robert Wexler; and the chairman and ranking member of the 
Foreign Affairs Committee, Tom Lantos; and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen. These 
three distinguished Members have proven themselves to be leaders in 
standing up for Israel, and I thank them for all their work in bringing 
this resolution to the floor.

With that, Madam Speaker, I will conclude by urging swift passage of 
this critical resolution.