---
---

# MAJORITY MAKERS
## `0d83ffeb2423fe88504372525163d6c1`
`Mr. ELLISON — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, I am really honored to join my members of 
this freshman class. I am so proud to be a Member of the 110th 
Congress.

I just wanted to point out that this week as we contemplate and as 
we've seen the three reports, the GAO report, the report from General 
Petraeus, the report from General Jones, we are at a point where we 
have to make a big decision. The people of America and Iraq want our 
troops to have a safe but clear end point to this conflict. The surge 
has not been successful, as we see 11 of 18 legislative security and 
economic benchmarks set down have not been met.

But I just wanted to talk about a very interesting and curious 
development in this whole conflict, which is that part of the story of 
the Iraq conflict is the contractors. Blackwater is the most well known 
of them, but that's not the only one. There's DynCorp, there's Titan, 
there's Casey, there's many of them. As a matter of fact, what we have 
seen is a privatization of this conflict. We've seen the privatization 
of this conflict as literally estimated at upwards of 150,000 
contractors have been in Iraq. And the question is, since we've never 
privatized a war, since we've always kept an essential governmental 
function, which is defense of the Nation, within the firm hands of the 
government and we've never really privatized a military conflict 
before, what does all of this mean? Interestingly and sadly, we've seen 
this privatization situation devolve into a very dangerous situation 
which I believe has in many ways compromised national security and has 
damaged the reputation of the United States and has led, in my view, to 
a situation where the Iraqi Government, even though it is a government 
under occupation, under U.S. military occupation, has had to make a 
statement to throw Blackwater out of its country.

Now, think about that. This is a government that is not in full 
control of its own country but has mustered itself and said, Look, in 
order to go forward, this institution, Blackwater, must leave our 
country. I just want to talk about this a little bit because I think 
that it's an important part of the story and it needs to be told even 
from the floor of Congress.

The recent incident that I'm talking about has caused the Iraqi 
Government to revoke the license of Blackwater. This is the result of a 
situation, of a killing of Iraqi citizens that happened on September 
11, 2007 and the wounding of 14 others by a Blackwater USA security 
company. Ostensibly, this private security company guards U.S. Embassy 
personnel in Iraq. Blackwater USA is based in North Carolina and is one 
of the largest of at least 28 different private security firms that 
have received governmental contracts to work in Iraq, paid for by at 
least $4 billion in taxpayer dollars.

This group, funded by American taxpayer dollars through their 
contract, seems to hold very few American values, it seems to me, 
except for making money, by some accounts as much as five times the 
amount that our brave soldiers make. Five times the amount the average 
soldier is making is what one of these contractors can make, 
particularly one that was in Blackwater. According to one source, in 
February 2004, Blackwater started training former Chilean commandos, 
some of whom were serving during the Pinochet years in Chile, for duty 
in Iraq. People who know the Pinochet regime know that this regime was 
known for people disappearing in the country. Torture was routine. 
Other news reports indicate that four of the guards killed in January 
while working for a subcontractor had served in South Africa's security 
forces during the apartheid era, and one of them had applied for 
amnesty for crimes that he committed while operating under the 
apartheid regime. Not good news.

Press reports further indicate that this latest incident was not 
isolated, with Iraqi Interior Minister spokesman Abdul-Karim Khalaf 
calling the episode the ''last and biggest mistake'' committed by 
Blackwater.

Khalaf went on to say, ''Security contracts do not allow them to 
shoot people randomly. They are here to protect personnel, not to shoot 
people without reason.''

Mr. Speaker, we are not in a position to win the hearts and minds of 
the Iraqi people if we have cowboy mercenary vigilantes. Blackwater 
seems to be accountable neither to the Iraqi Government, and there are 
serious questions as to whether they're even accountable to the U.S. 
Government. They are not subject to the Geneva Convention, which our 
soldiers are. If accounts of this and other incidents prove to be 
accurate, and of course due process is critically important, then the 
Iraqi Government's actions to expel Blackwater from Iraq could indicate 
the first concrete sign that a real government may exist in Baghdad. 
Who knows. We'll see.

Mr. Speaker, I think it is very critical that we continue to look 
into this issue of private contractors. It is an important part of the 
story of Iraq. It is a critical and fundamental part of this dialogue 
that we're having. We can't privatize our Nation's national defense. 
When we do, we lose control of these people.

Mercenary actions are not deemed sanctioned by U.N. charter. And to 
hire a private mercenary army is something that we should not be 
associated with. They call themselves security contractors, and yet 
they have been involved


in major military actions in Najaf. Everybody remembers the horrific 
incident that occurred in Fallujah that was succeeded by a major action 
against that city. At this point I think it's important for us to pay 
much closer attention to this situation and put some real 
accountability on this situation.

I yield back at this time, but I do ask that we raise these important 
issues and focus on exactly what this means for our country and our 
national security.