---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `0d9f23a33436fd722c02dfaf1ca15cd9`
`Mr. BENNET — 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, it was a great privilege to be here on the 
floor to hear the remarks of the senior Senator from West Virginia. I 
congratulate him on his remarks and thank him for giving us the 
privilege of hearing his views on Afghanistan.

One of the most import duties we have as Members of this Chamber is 
to ensure that our troops have the tools and equipment they need to 
succeed. It is an obligation we all take very seriously. I thank the 
chairman and ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, 
Senators Levin and McCain, for producing such a balanced and bipartisan 
bill that invests in our Nation's defense and provides, as President 
Obama has said, ''for the few who have borne the overwhelming burden of 
our security.'' Making sure our troops have the very best America can 
offer is absolutely essential to our defense and keeps our military 
second to none.

I rise today to discuss a provision in this conference report that 
reflects a different source of pride, a source of pride that projects 
another characteristic of America and defines us as a model of freedom 
and equality under the law. These values form a foundation of America's 
strength that is our most enduring asset, both in times of war and 
peace. I rise today in strong support of the Matthew Shepard Hate 
Crimes Prevention Act. With the bipartisan passage of the Defense 
authorization conference report, we will have taken another substantial 
step forward for our values as Americans.

It has been 10 years since the Matthew Shepard Hate Crimes Prevention 
Act was first introduced in the Senate. During this period we have seen 
a marked increase in hate crimes. In my home State of Colorado there 
were 156 hate crime incidents reported to the FBI in 2007; 75 of those 
were on account of the victims' race and 32 on account of his or her 
sexual orientation.

One of these victims was 18-year-old Angie Zapata, of Greeley, who 
was beaten to death in her home in July of 2008. Press accounts 
indicated Angie's attacker said he went after her because he hates 
transgender and gay people. A jury found that the attacker was 
motivated by prejudice based on sexual orientation. The jury's verdict 
marked Colorado's first ever conviction for a hate crime against a 
transgendered person. The crime was heinous and the attacker will 
rightly serve his time because of the laws in my State. Our experience 
in Colorado, which already has strong hate crimes laws on the books, 
serves as an example of how to protect the civil rights of all 
Americans, regardless of where they live.

Our laws must reflect our values. Communities are threatened anytime 
there is a violent crime motivated by racial animus or by bigotry 
against one's gender or sexual orientation. Hate crimes are serious 
challenges for our law enforcement personnel. They can lead to 
additional crimes, and they can raise the level of animosity among 
communities. These unique challenges have rightly caused Congress to 
become involved. As we learned in the civil rights era, sometimes 
communities need assistance and resources from the Federal Government 
when they have to confront the most emotional and dangerous kinds of 
crimes. The Matthew Shepard Hate Crimes Prevention Act is designed to 
help local law enforcement manage these situations and deter hate 
crimes from ever happening in the first place.

This important law strengthens the current Federal hate crimes 
statute by protecting would-be targets of violence based on gender, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. It closes a 
significant loophole under current law that prevents hate crime 
prosecution when a victim is not engaged in a federally protected 
activity. All victims should be protected, and these crimes should be 
deterred regardless of where or when an attacker may be planning to 
commit a violent crime.

This legislation also authorizes the Department of Justice to provide 
grants to State, local, and tribal authorities to investigate or 
prosecute hate crimes more effectively. Grants are also made available 
for programs that combat hate crimes committed by juveniles, including 
training by local law enforcement to effectively identify, prosecute, 
and prevent those hate crimes.

I thank all of those who worked so hard over the past 10 years to 
update our hate crimes laws, particularly the late Senator Ted Kennedy, 
who long championed this cause. In a speech he gave back in 2007 on 
this very subject, Senator Kennedy asked how long those living in fear 
of attack or reprisal would have to wait until Congress did the right 
thing. How long, he asked, would it take for Washington to show that 
violence on account of gender, sexual orientation, or gender identity 
is absolutely inconsistent with our values and as such will not be 
tolerated in the United States of America.

Today, is Senator Kennedy's answer. Today we send a bill to the 
President that ensures America's enduring principles apply to all 
Americans. Today we approve a bill that, as Senator Kennedy predicted, 
''sends a message about freedom and equality that will resonate around 
the world.'' It is a proud amendment. I urge my colleagues to set the 
right example and pass this important legislation.