---
---

# None
## `0da2491b6f35adc4bff7dddb6d88ac20`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut â€” 25 February 2009`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Would the gentleman yield? And you have to 
look at all of the different ways that we got here and all of the 
different ways we can start to repair this. And I just think of one 
right now. You talk about what would have happened if we just continued 
the policies of the Clinton administration. Obviously one of the things 
that changed the financial dynamic in this country is the fact that we 
decided to go wage a $700 billion war. And if that wasn't bad enough, 
we did it all off budget.

And that's one of the great untold stories of the Bush 
administration. No matter what you think about the war in Iraq--whether 
you think that we should have never gone, that we should have left 
earlier, that we should leave now, that we should stay for another 5 
years--the fact was that maybe the first year of funding could have 
been deemed emergency off-budget funding, and maybe even the second 
year, but in the third and the fourth and the fifth and the sixth year, 
this wasn't a surprise to anybody. But one of the ways that we masked 
the amount of money that we were using for that war was we put it all 
off budget, and so it didn't make the annual deficit look as bad as it 
really was.



With one stroke of a pen, President Obama changed that. He said, you 
know what, no matter how bad it's going to make the numbers look on a 
yearly basis, we've got to start having some honest books here. We have 
got to start having some real accounting. So President Obama said, 
listen, from here on out, and he said this last night in his speech and 
he said it when he made this change in budgeting rules on Friday, we're 
going to put the cost of the war in both Iraq and Afghanistan online. 
It's going to be part of the budget; so we're going to have to pay for 
it. We're going to have to pay for it.

Now, frankly, Mr. Altmire and Mr. Boccieri, when it comes to 
protecting the American people, I think people are willing to step up 
to the plate and make some sacrifices to do that. Now, we may disagree 
about what that entails, but in the days after September 11, this 
country was ready to step up and sacrifice. This country was ready to 
step up and pay for whatever it took to protect this country. And I 
really congratulate President Obama for stepping forward and saying, 
listen, yes, I want to get out of Iraq; yes, I think I need to step up 
our commitment in Afghanistan; but for however long that takes and 
however much it costs, we're going to do it in the confines of a 
budget. We're going to have an honest budget, an honest document. The 
American people are going to see the numbers however raw or bad or ugly 
they may be, but we're going to be honest about it.

And I think that's what people out there are asking for, Mr. Altmire. 
I mean we're back in our districts every weekend, and as bad off as 
people are right now, as difficult as the times are, I think they're 
willing to sort of see a path forward. They know it's going to be hard, 
but they want to know how hard it is, how big the challenge is, and 
then they are, I think, ready to step up. But we've been masking the 
problem up until now. And I think President Obama has got some room 
right now in order to basically put it all on the table, be honest with 
the people about what the problem is, and then ask us to step up to the 
plate and solve it.

And he's facing right now Republican opposition, if I may make one 
more point, whose answer to every solution is let's do nothing. 
Everybody on the Democratic side has agreed or disagreed with different 
parts of the economic recovery strategy, but at least we're over here 
trying to think of a way out of this. The response from the other side 
has been essentially to just sit back and let the economy tumble into 
chaos. The American people want action. They want to know how big the 
problem is, and they want to step up to the plate and help solve it, 
Mr. Altmire.