---
---

# THE BUDGET
## `0dbb3008788e82b35a6f9d8cb3d46daf`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 21 May 2008`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I thank my colleague, the chair of the 
Budget Committee. He has done an amazing job putting together a budget 
of which we can all be very proud.

For the last 7/1/2/ years, the current administration has really 
mismanaged our economy and failed to make the kinds of investments that 
keep our country strong. We all know American families have really paid 
the price. We have gone from a budget surplus to a record deficit, our 
infrastructure is crumbling, and our economy is now nearing a 
recession, if we are not already there. So as we finalize this year's 
budget, we have to ensure that we are investing in our future and 
addressing our country's real priorities.

It seems that every day the news we hear gets worse about job loss, 
about skyrocketing gas prices, about the number of families who risk 
losing their homes in the mortgage crisis. And in the eighth and final 
budget this President has sent to us, he has really sent us off on a 
fiscally irresponsible path. He has given us a dishonest budget that 
fails to own up to the true cost


of the war, and it will require us to borrow billions of dollars from 
foreign governments to meet our expenses.

I want to give a few examples of how out of touch President Bush's 
budget is.

People today are struggling to pay for heat and rent. Yet President 
Bush sent us a budget that proposed to cut low-income heating 
assistance and housing and neighborhood revitalization programs, such 
as section 8 and CDBG, right when our constituents are fighting so hard 
to pay their mortgages to make sure they stay in their homes.

The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are creating thousands of new 
veterans every single year, many of them, as we know, with severe 
injuries and specialized needs. But President Bush sent us a budget 
that cut critical programs at the VA, including medical research and 
State extended-care facilities.

More than 1 million people are going to lose their jobs this year. 
What did President Bush do in his budget proposal? He cut $484 million 
from critical workforce training programs.

Health care continues to be out of reach for millions of Americans 
who don't have insurance or, in some cases, don't have access to 
doctors or nurses. Yet the President sent us a budget that freezes 
Medicare reimbursement levels for our hospitals and hospices, for our 
ambulance services, long-term care facilities, and he decimated funding 
for training programs for our health care professionals.

It is past time that this administration joined with the majority in 
Congress and the majority of people in this country to make America's 
families, the working families, our first priority.

The budget conference resolution makes responsible choices that will 
help get our economy rolling again and invest in our country's real 
priorities. With this budget which will be before the Senate shortly, 
Democrats are investing in programs that help families meet expenses 
and get ahead, things such as schools and health care and job training. 
Our budget makes up for President Bush's misguided proposals to flat 
line funding for education and rob students of the opportunities they 
need to get ahead.

We are restoring the vital funding the President has slashed from our 
Nation's job training programs to help youth and adult and dislocated 
workers get the skills they need so they can succeed in our global 
economy.

We are investing in health care by adding much needed funding for our 
health professions, the National Health Service Corps, our community 
health centers, and other programs that help to ensure Americans can 
see a doctor when they are sick.

We are ensuring our communities at home are safe by funding the 
homeland security grants and restoring cuts to local law enforcement 
programs.

Our budget fully funds the port security grants which the President 
proposed cutting in half. And it restores his dangerous proposal to cut 
almost $750 million from State homeland security programs and grants. 
Those are programs that help pay for security improvements, training, 
and equipment--all of the items that our first responders need so they 
can prepare for the worst in our communities at home.

Democrats are making critical investments in infrastructure in this 
budget which will help boost spending and create jobs, while making 
much needed repairs to our roads and our bridges. We are also 
preventing a projected shortfall in the highway trust fund so we can 
keep our commitment to States and communities and ensure that our 
roads, bridges, and highways are safe and up to date.

This budget ensures we are not turning our backs on the Hanford 
Nuclear Reservation in my home State or the many other States in our 
nuclear complex where workers sacrificed to help make nuclear material 
during the Cold War. Hanford and other sites like it are still home to 
millions of gallons of nuclear waste and other dangerous material, and 
the Federal Government has to live up to its promise to clean them up. 
The longer we stretch it out, the more the cleanup is going to cost 
over the long run. The budget that will be before us reverses the trend 
of failing to invest, and it is a big step toward getting us back on 
schedule.

Finally, in this budget, we are doing the right thing for our 
veterans. The number of veterans is increasing every day, and the list 
of needed repairs and expanded facilities in the VA system is stacking 
up as well. But what does the administration send us? A budget that 
proposes new fees and increased copays that will essentially discourage 
millions of veterans from even accessing the VA. In his budget, the 
President also underfunded VA medical care, VA medical and prosthetic 
research, and he cut funding for major and minor construction by nearly 
50 percent.

I have made it clear over the last several years that I believe 
denying access or discouraging veterans from seeking care because of 
their income is morally wrong, and I believe it will also make it 
harder in the long run for us to maintain a strong voluntary military. 
Democrats are making sure that we keep our promise to the men and women 
who have served us so bravely.

I thank our chairman, Senator Conrad, for his leadership and his 
tremendously hard work to get us to this point. I urge all of our 
colleagues to support this budget. This budget sets priorities and 
gives us critical direction as we begin the appropriations process. The 
American people desperately want us to take the steps that have been 
laid out in this budget. Our budget creates jobs, it rebuilds our roads 
and our bridges, it cares for our veterans, it invests in education, it 
helps our families meet their basic needs, and it gets us to surplus by 
2012. After years of this President's unrealistic policies, Democrats 
with this budget are making sure that working families are again 
priority No. 1.

Madam President, I yield the floor.