# TRIBUTE TO FIRST CLASS PETTY OFFICER JAMES KENNETH BROWN
## `0dc41e21a81aa73d32b69c3111e7882d`
`Mr. LATHAM — 27 January 2010`

---


Mr. LATHAM. Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize the service of 
Intelligence Specialist First Class Petty Officer James Kenneth Brown, 
and to express my appreciation for his dedication and commitment to his 
country.

For the past 20 years, Petty Officer Brown has served faithfully and 
honorably around the globe. He first enlisted in the United States Navy 
in August 1989 through the delayed entry program and proceeded to 
Recruit Training Command in June of 1990 in Great Lakes,


Ill. In 1990, he participated in Desert Storm and Desert Shield earning 
the Combat Action ribbon. Petty Officer Brown then became the first 
Seaman onboard USS Nassau to earn the Enlisted Surface Warfare 
Specialist Pin in 1993. Later in the same year, he joined the Navy 
Marine Intelligence Training Command to become an Intelligence 
Specialist. In 1994, he participated in Operation Southern Watch and 
operations in Kosovo.

Petty Officer Brown reported to the USS Carl Vinson as the Leading 
Petty Officer of Multi-Sensor Interpretation Branch in December 1999. 
Two years later, the USS Carl Vinson launched the first attack of the 
Global War on Terrorism into Afghanistan in response to 9/11. His 
second deployment on the USS Carl Vinson was off the Korean Peninsula 
and included the FOAL EAGLE and TANDUM THRUST exercises.

In 2004, Petty Officer Brown took orders to the Chief of Naval 
Operations--Intelligence Plot and worked in National Military Joint 
Intelligence Center in the Pentagon. Three years later he reported to 
the USS Cole for a tour as the Assistant Destroyer Squadron Twenty-Two 
Intelligence Officer. In 2008, Petty Officer Brown transferred to Joint 
Forces Transformational Command, where he worked as an Intelligence 
Analyst rewriting and providing critical insight for limited 
distributed intelligence products. In December 2008, he reported to 
U.S. Naval Station Guantanamo as his last duty station in the United 
States Navy. He is currently serving as the Leading Petty Officer and 
the Special Security Officer for the Naval Station and Tenant Commands.

During his service, Petty Officer Brown also furthered his education 
and earned numerous recognitions and awards for his dedicated service. 
He earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Intelligence Studies from the 
Joint Military Intelligence College in 2004 and earned Post Graduate 
Certificate in Intelligence in 2007 from the National Defense 
Intelligence College. He also earned the Joint Service Achievement 
Medal, Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal (second award), Combat 
Action ribbon, Good Conduct Medal (sixth award), NATO Medal for 
Yugoslavia, Joint Staff Identification Badge along with several unit 
and campaign awards.

I congratulate Petty Officer Brown for his many years of loyalty and 
service to our great nation. It is an immense honor to represent First 
Class Petty Officer Brown in the United States Congress, and I wish him 
and his wife Nichole a happy retirement from the United States Navy and 
all the best in their future endeavors.
