# None
## `0dc7d6fc08788e866dd47a8eb537fb98`
`Mr. SESTAK — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Thank you for yielding. I wanted to also speak about Iraq 
and our U.S. security.

I've always felt that Iraq is a tragic misadventure. I can remember 
being on the ground for just a short period of time, 2 months after the 
war in Afghanistan began, and I saw what needed to be done. I brought 
an aircraft carrier battle group back, 30 ships, 15,000 sailors, 
Special Forces, SEALs, Marines. And then I went back on the ground 18 
months later in Afghanistan and I saw what had not been accomplished 
because we diverted our attention, our resources, Special Forces, 
psychological forces, civil affairs forces to Iraq.

I have always believed that not only is Iraq a tragic misadventure, 
but there is a strategy by which we can redeploy out of Iraq and not 
leave a failed state.



I have never believed in doubling down on a bad bet, and that is what 
we have done by this most recent surge of forces into Iraq. The last 2 
months have proven that. We have had more U.S. casualties among our 
forces than any 2-month period back to 2004.

There is only one solution to Iraq, and that is not by continuing to 
flow forces there. It is by setting a date that is certain, a specific 
date by which everyone knows we will redeploy out of Iraq. I believe 
that this date certain, much like a tax policy here in the United 
States, is something that can begin to change the structure of 
incentives within Iraq and about the surrounding countries so that 
their behavior in Iraq, as well as in the critical Nation's of Iran and 
Syria, changes. If we are to set a date certain, the Iraqis will begin 
to understand that no longer will we continue to provide a political 
and a military cover for their 32 ministries in their government, that 
each is headed by an individual that is bent not upon Iraqi ambitions 
but personal ambitions to ensure that they consolidate as we provide 
them cover for their personal fiefdoms. We should let them know that we 
will no longer let them pursue these ambitions; that they must step up 
and assume personal, professional responsibility for the challenging 
political questions that must be addressed.

When Senator Hagel and I went together to Iraq, we had the most 
senior Shia and Kurd leaders tell us that the reBaathification law, 
which would welcome back in the Sunnis, was something that was not only 
not important, but in their minds, it was appeasement. When will they 
begin to make the political decisions, to make the political 
accommodations to begin to reconcile their country so there can be 
stability? A date certain, at a certain length of time, my bill has 
said, for the last 4 months, at the end of December, is the one 
remaining leverage that we have in that region to also turn to Iran, 
who is involved destructively with Syria in this war, making us lead 
profusely while we are there, to change their incentives so that they 
understand that if we no longer keep this top on a simmering pot, that 
they will have to deal with the stability that will ensue.

There are 4 million Iraqis that have been dislocated from their 
homes, 2 million of which have overflowed the borders. The Iranians and 
the Syrians do not want to have the remaining refugees come over their 
borders so that they have to deal with that instability. And, second, 
they do not want a proxy war between these two allied nations, Shia, 
Iran, on the one hand; and Sunnis, Syria, on the other, as they then 
would be left fueling different religious factions, a proxy war between 
themselves if we are not there. If the United States has the confidence 
to lead not just with its military but with diplomacy in that region, 
bringing Syria, Iran together to understand that the term 
''insh'Allah'' that is so well known in the Middle East, God willing, 
tomorrow, will no longer be accepted by us. Give them a date certain by 
which we should redeploy, because we also need to remember the length 
of that time cannot for us be tomorrow.

It took us 6 months to redeploy out of Somalia with a much, much 
smaller force. In Iraq, we have 160,000 troops and over 100,000 U.S. 
civilians. It will take us some months. But under a date certain, we 
can leave behind a strategy that can leave an unfailed state as we 
redeploy within that region to our bases in Oman, Qatar, and Bahrain, 
carry a battle group into Afghanistan and many to come home because we 
have an army that does not have one unit that is ready to deploy 
anywhere in this world from home because they are in such a low state 
of readiness.

As I conclude, I ask this Congress, the Democratic party, to ensure 
they pursue the strategy that will leave not an unfailed state but a 
state that is stabilized to some degree as we work with the regional 
nations to also understand to never again put our troops between us and 
the President.

Being in the military has the dignity of danger. It is a dangerous 
business, but it doesn't have to be unsafe. We must do this on an 
authorization bill, not an appropriations bill. The moneys


should flow for the safety of our troops as we do an authorization 
bill, set a date certain, 6, 9 months from today, and safely redeploy 
our troops as the one remaining leverage for those nations in that 
region to come together under U.S. confidence so that we can leave that 
nation, build up our strategic security again and focus on the rest of 
the world and here at home. And I am very grateful for the time.