---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `0dc8c514c9fe781d415fe859ebfb2494`
`Mr. UDALL of New Mexico — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Mr. Speaker, Speaker Pelosi, Chairman Obey, 
and Chairman Murtha have put together a very solid piece of 
legislation. This bill puts us on a path to end this war. This 
legislation holds the Iraqi Government accountable, and it holds 
President Bush accountable. Let us not forget, this is an Iraqi 
Government that refuses to pursue national reconciliation.

This bill takes President Bush's benchmarks and puts them into law. 
This is a bill about accountability. Others have said we are 
handcuffing, micromanaging. No, this is a bill about setting a policy 
to extract us from a misguided war.

I ask my colleagues, vote for this bill because it tells the Iraqis 
it is time for you to step up and defend your country.

I rise today in support of this important legislation and would like 
to thank Chairman Obey and Chairman Murtha for their work in crafting 
this critically important bill. There are no easy choices to be made 
regarding Iraq, but the choices they have made are the right ones.

I believe there are two fundamental issues we must address concerning 
the on-going war in Iraq. First, we must provide the resources 
necessary for our troops on the ground so they can protect themselves 
and our allies. Second, we must redeploy them as soon as we can, and 
bring to an end American involvement in ill-conceived, poorly planned, 
and mismanaged war.

I believe this legislation achieves both of these goals. The bill 
provides more funding for the equipment and training of our troops than 
the President's request. It offers a new direction that promises to 
finally bring closure to our open-ended commitment in Iraq. And Mr. 
Speaker, this bill promises to give our returning troops the health 
care that they need, with the honor they deserve for honoring us with 
their service.

As the people's body, it is imperative that the House of 
Representatives listens to the will of the people. Equally important, 
it is imperative that the President listen to the will of the people.

After four years, $400 billion dollars, and the tragic loss of 3,200 
service men and women, every survey of public opinion shows a clear 
majority of Americans disapprove of the President's handling of the 
Iraq War. And more Americans believe Congress, not the President, 
should be primarily responsible for setting policy in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, with passage of this legislation, we are taking the 
first steps to end our involvement in a war that currently has no end 
in sight.

I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation and move 
us in a new direction in Iraq.