---
---

# None
## `0df2591a69e5d4696ad75e13db049602`
`Mr. MARKEY of Massachusetts — 8 December 2009`

---


Mr. MARKEY of Massachusetts. The gentleman will have his turn.

The personal emails in question do not in any way disprove or 
undercut the mountain of scientific evidence on


global warming. Now the Republicans are attacking the scientists who 
have worked decades on this problem, going so far as to accuse them of 
scientific fascism.

This is an insult to America's best and brightest scientists. The 
science that we are relying upon is the science of NASA, the science of 
NOAA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the National 
Academy of Sciences and our United States military. That is the 
evidence that we are relying upon. Men and women who had nothing to do 
with the emails and whose work has shown climate change is real and a 
danger to public health.

The scientists have used a careful, rigorous and transparent approach 
to come to consensus that evidence of global warming is unequivocal. 
The data topics referred to in the emails were all transparent and also 
debated openly and in public literature at that time.

Additionally, the American Association for the Advancement of 
Science, the AAAS, has reaffirmed its statement that global climate 
change caused by human activities is now underway and is a growing 
threat to society.

On December 4, just a couple of days ago, more than 25 leading U.S. 
scientists sent an open letter. Here is what they said. They said the 
content of the stolen emails has no impact whatsoever on our overall 
understanding that human activity is driving dangerous levels of global 
warming. The letter states, even without including analysis from the UK 
research center from which the emails were stolen, that the body of 
evidence underlying our understanding of human-caused global warming 
remains robust.

The AAAS expressed grave concerns that the illegal release of private 
emails stolen from the University of East Anglia should not cause 
policymakers and the public to become confused about the scientific 
basis of climate change. Similarly, the prestigious British journal 
Nature published an editorial last week saying that there was no reason 
for its editors to revisit papers submitted by scientists whose emails 
were stolen.

The American Meteorological Society has also stated that the emails 
gave them no reason to revisit its conclusion that human activity is 
driving climate change.

Bryan Walsh of Time magazine writes in his article, ''The truth is 
that the emails, while unseemly, do little to change the overwhelming 
scientific consensus on the reality of manmade climate change.'' The 
IPCC chairman, Rajendra Pachauri, in the opening of the U.N. climate 
change conference, as I just pointed out, made the very same point.



So the consensus from the scientific community is clear that the 
Republicans are trying to manufacture an issue to derail legislation. 
They do not have the information. They do not have the scientific 
evidence to maintain their points. However, the Saudi Arabians and 
ExxonMobil, they want to question it. They want to continue business as 
usual in our country. But the consequences, if we do move forward in 
their direction, will be further catastrophic consequences for our 
planet.

The emails do not in any way indicate global warming data is flawed 
or manipulated. The emails do not in any way undermine the sound 
science or disprove the unequivocal scientific consensus that global 
warming is real and caused by manmade carbon pollution. These emails do 
not show evidence of a conspiracy. The emails do not contain admissions 
of a global warming hoax. And the emails do not show that data was 
falsified. The Republicans are cherry-picking key words in emails to 
try to manufacture a scandal.

Here are two prime examples: one email suggests using a trick. Now, 
this email was written in 1999, 10 years ago. Since that time the 
planet has had 9 of the 10 hottest years on record. We have seen 
category 5 hurricanes like Katrina, record wildfires out West, villages 
falling into the sea in Alaska, and a 500-year flood in the Midwest, 
not to mention the disappearance of Arctic Sea ice at a rate far 
outpacing the climate models. These events are not a trick. They have 
all found global warming to be a danger to public health and national 
security. This work is publicly available and fully transparent.

Next, skeptical scientists have not been silenced or suppressed. The 
deniers have not been silenced. In fact, their very research and 
opinions mentioned in the emails were, in fact, included in the IPCC 
report. Two of the skeptical papers that the emails suggest should be 
kept out of the IPCC process are cited and discussed in chapter 3 of 
the 2007 IPCC Physical Science Basis report. Deniers have testified 
before Congress literally dozens of times. But the majority of their 
work has been funded by Big Oil and by other polluters. And let's not 
forget deniers and skeptics had 8 years of George Bush to help them 
delay action.

The scientific process has been very robust; but if you want to have 
a story about emails, then let's talk about the Environmental 
Protection Agency of George Bush.

After the Supreme Court decision Massachusetts v. EPA was rendered in 
April of 2007, they instructed the Bush administration and its 
Environmental Protection Agency to make a determination as to whether 
or not CO2 posed a danger to the health and welfare of the 
American people. They told them they had to make a finding one way or 
the other. Well, back in May of 2008, the EPA of George Bush made the 
decision that CO2 was a danger, and they sent an email over 
to the White House saying we have found the danger.

But Vice President Cheney found out that an email had been sent and 
the finding was not going to be finalized until the Bush White House 
accepted that email.

So what did they do? Vice President Cheney ordered that the email not 
be received in the White House. No email, which is the consensus of the 
Environmental Protection Agency of George Bush that CO2 is a 
danger; we won't accept that email.

Now, there is a scandal. That's a scandal. The American Environmental 
Protection Agency has made a finding that CO2 is a danger 
and Vice President Cheney says, We won't accept it. Send the email back 
because once we get it, we'll have to act on it. There is a scandal. 
That's the Cheney-Bush years, holding hands with the Saudi Prince. 
Please send us more oil, denying the science that their own EPA had 
developed saying that CO2 is a danger to the health and 
welfare of our country. That is what is the real scandal, that they 
were denying science. They were denying the evaluation made by 
thousands of scientists not only in our own country but around the 
world.

And who are these scientists? They're the people that work at NASA. 
They're the people who work at NOAA. They're the people who work at the 
Navy Department, in the Army, in the Marines, in the Air Force. These 
are the people that have gathered this information. Our submarine crews 
who have been in Polaris submarines going under the Arctic to measure 
the depth of the ice, these are the people whose information is now 
being called into question by the Republicans.

These are the people whose email going into the White House was 
rejected by Dick Cheney. No, we don't want to act. We're going to 
finish out all 8 years of the Bush-Cheney era without ever having done 
anything about climate change.

This scientific process is very robust. The emails show without 
question that scientists are human. The power of the scientific 
process, however, has always been its ability to overcome human bias. 
That is the case with climate science as well. Despite the revelation 
that a few climate scientists may have considered acting 
inappropriately, there is virtually no evidence that anything was done 
that in any way would affect the final conclusion that was reached that 
this is a real danger to our planet.

The burden of proof here is all wrong. The climate deniers should be 
trying to explain why the tens of thousands of scientists who say 
global warming is unequivocal are wrong, why they think global warming 
isn't happening. And they can't do it. They cannot take on these tens 
of thousands of scientists around the world. So instead they're trying 
to create a mini-contretemps, something that makes it look like there's 
a real debate.



Yes, it's between Democrats and Republicans, but it's really between 
scientists at a 98 percent level and everyone else. But they're trying 
to take the 1 percent, 2 percent and make it out like there's an 
evenhanded debate. That's what the American Tobacco Institute used to 
do. The American Tobacco Institute used to find a couple of scientists 
that said, Don't worry about smoking, there's still no conclusive 
evidence that it's harmful to your lungs.

By the way, my father, smoking two packs of Camels a day, he used to 
say to my brothers and my mother and I, Don't worry about my smoking; 
okay? Two packs of Camels won't kill me. Until finally that little spot 
showed up on his lung and took my father. It still didn't convince, of 
course, the American Tobacco Institute. It didn't convince those people 
who were in scientific denial that these fumes that were being inhaled 
could lead to the death of people any more than the science which is 
overwhelmingly conclusive that the glaciers are melting, the Arctic ice 
cover is shrinking, the permafrost being exposed up in Alaska, the 
villages falling into the ocean beginning with Shishmaref, the village 
up in Alaska, because of that dramatic warming; that it had nothing to 
do, of course, they say, with the science--kind of like the American 
Tobacco Institute.

But the overwhelming consensus not only of our scientists but of the 
world is that these fumes that are being inhaled by our planet are 
making our planet sick.

So that's our choice. It's to make them explain why the Arctic has 
lost an ice cover three times the size of Texas compared to just a 
couple of decades ago; why Alaskan winters are 6.3 degrees warmer now 
than they were 50 years ago; why the ocean waters are 30 percent more 
acidic than they were in pre-industrial times; why this summer, the 
ocean was the warmest in NOAA's 130-year record.

The year 2000 was the 15th warmest year in NASA's record; 2001 is 
tied for the eighth warmest; 2002 is tied for the third warmest; 2003 
is the sixth warmest; 2004 is tied for the eighth warmest; 2005 is the 
warmest year on NASA's record; 2006 is the seventh warmest year ever 
recorded; 2007 is the second warmest ever recorded; 2008 is the 10th 
warmest ever recorded; and just today we learned that 2009 is projected 
to be the fifth warmest year on record. All of it leading inevitably, 
inexorably towards catastrophic conditions for our planet.

Well, as this science was being developed, the Republicans did not 
decide to accept it. Dick Cheney said, Keep that email out of the White 
House. I don't care what my own EPA says. I don't care what the 
scientists hired by the Bush administration said about global warming, 
that email telling us that it is a danger to our planet, to our 
country, because that's the finding they had to make. The finding the 
EPA had to make was not a danger to the world, a danger to the United 
States of America. And that email, that scientific email, was summarily 
rejected by Dick Cheney because once they accepted it, they would then 
have the political and moral responsibility to ensure that something 
had to be done about it.

So there was no open and free discussion inside the Bush 
administration on that science. There was no roundtable with Dick 
Cheney sitting in the middle of it saying, Well, let's now debate the 
science. Oh, no. No free and open discussion of science. No free and 
open discussion of how the Vice President is going to reject out of 
hand the consensus of the entire EPA of his administration in the 8th 
year of the Bush administration. So it wasn't as though there were a 
bunch of Clinton holdovers at this point. This was a decision made by 
the Bush administration and its EPA, and it was rejected without so 
much as a debate by Dick Cheney and the White House.

So all of this, unfortunately, is being covered by the media as 
though it's kind of an evenhanded discussion here that's going on: 99, 
98 percent of all scientists on one side, 1 percent on the other side. 
No, let's just make it even-steven, which is kind of how the tobacco 
debate was handled for a generation.

Well, there are two sides to the story, you know. Either tobacco and 
its inhalation into the lungs of human beings causes cancer or it 
doesn't. There are a couple of scientists over here that the American 
Tobacco Institute has and there's every other scientist in the world, 
every doctor, every physician.

So this is a huge moment for us as a country. We have two pathways 
that we can go down. We can continue to beg for oil from other 
countries. We continue to spew these greenhouse gases up into our 
atmosphere. Or we can say to America it is time for an oil change. It 
is time to move to an agenda of wind, of solar, of green buildings, of 
plug-in hybrids, a new era where we become the technological giant that 
we should be; that we do in the energy field what we did in the 
technology sector; that we overhaul our relationship with these 
technologies so we can overhaul our relationship with other countries 
in the world and create the 2 million jobs here in our country.



And that's really what is at stake because China right now is moving 
towards becoming number one in the world in wind, in solar, in all of 
these technologies.

So if you listen to the dissenters here, they're willing for us to 
move from an era where it's made by OPEC to an era made in China 
without ever having had a ''Made in America'' period. These jobs in 
wind, in solar, green buildings, plug-in hybrids, they should be 
American jobs. They should be the future for our country. They should 
be the next manufacturing sector. They should be what Google and eBay 
and Amazon and YouTube all represented in terms of the changing of our 
national view as to how we worked in our country. That is our 
challenge.

This is actually a good debate to have because it gets right to the 
heart of the matter, a green job revolution, backing out imported oil 
and saving the planet in the bargain, or engaging in a debate over a 
few emails. By the way, the emails were ultimately included in the 
report of the U.N.--included, not excluded. Included.

During our debate here in Congress, we had the deniers that were able 
to sit at the table and to make their points. We heard them, we 
listened to them, we deliberated, and then we passed the legislation 
based upon the overwhelming preponderance of scientific evidence.

So that's our challenge. We are either going to help each other on 
this planet or we are going to hurt each other. We are either going to 
know each other or we're going to hurt each other. The glaciers 
melting, the coral reefs dying, the deserts that are being created, the 
least that we should be able to say to ourselves as a people in the 
year 2050 is that we tried, we really tried to do something about 
global warming, about this imported oil, about the need to create a new 
generation of green jobs in our country. We should try to create a 
world in 2050 where children have to look to the history books to find 
that there ever was such a time where America imported 60 percent of 
its oil, where we allowed the temperature of the planet to warm 
dangerously, where we missed the opportunity to create 2 million green 
jobs in our country. That's what this debate is all about. We have 
enjoyed the benefits of this fossil fuel era, but we have a 
responsibility to the generations to come to create a new era for them. 
That's our challenge.

And to have this debate over a couple of emails is really a 
disservice to the American people and to the planet. This should really 
be about something that's much bigger, and our country deserves that 
debate. The world wants us to be the leader. We have dangerously gone 
down a path of imported oil for too long.

The other major story that we are debating right now is sending 
another 30,000 young men and women to Afghanistan to join the hundreds 
of thousands that are already over there. How much more do we need to 
know? Where do we send them towards? We send them towards the countries 
with oil; we send them towards the countries that have fundamentalists 
that are funded by oil money. That's the other major story. It doesn't 
take a lot to link them together, to make it all part of one big 
opportunity for our country.

Let's follow the science. Let's follow all of those who have labored 
to create this understanding of what's happening to our planet, to our 
country, and end


the debate over the emails and begin a real debate about our energy and 
climate future.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.