# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `0df88042663817244b219b175d9707c6`
`Mr. BROWNBACK — 16 July 2009`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I certainly concur with the statement 
of my colleague from South Dakota as to what he is saying about the 
health insurance issue and the need to do it right rather than fast. I 
think it is critically important.

I would like to bring to the body's attention something that was on 
the front page of the Washington Post today. It is an article about 
''Who Will Succeed Kim Jong Il?'' and the point being: Here is a 
country that has recently tested missiles that can reach Hawaii, that 
has recently tested a nuclear device. He is gravely ill. Some are 
reporting he has pancreatic cancer. We don't know for sure what he has. 
But the question is, Who will succeed Kim Jong Il? And what does that 
mean to the United States? And what are we doing about it?

In our office, we are working on a piece of legislation to try to 
start some planning on our part as to what we should be doing if the 
leader in North Korea falls and if the state fails in North Korea, 
which is a very real possibility: that the overall state apparatus in 
North Korea will fail, that you will have hundreds of thousands, 
possibly millions, of people seeking to flee that country or--in a grip 
of searching for food--moving around to try to find food, that nuclear 
weapons will not be well watched, and the missile capacity that is 
there--all in a state that is failing and may fall altogether.

The reason I point this out is, we are on the Defense authorization 
bill. It is a very important piece of legislation. It is a key piece of 
legislation. It is a piece of legislation we pass every year because it 
is so important to the future of this country and so important to the 
defense of this country.

Here is a moment where we are looking at a potential nuclear threat, 
missile threat, to the United States and we ought to take up this issue 
and we ought to deal with the Defense authorization bill and, instead, 
we are on hate crimes legislation. The majority party has 60 votes to 
be able to move to that on another piece of legislation and should if 
they want to bring that up. But why here? And why are we eating up a 
couple days to do this on this bill, when we have these sorts of 
threats staring us right in the face?

I am going to put forward an amendment on the Defense authorization 
bill asking that we relist North Korea as a terrorist country. I think 
we ought to look at going at their financial instruments. I think we 
clearly need to be planning for the failure of this state, and we ought 
to be looking, as a humanitarian issue, at the failure of this state. I 
think we ought to be looking, as a security issue, at the failure of 
this state.

If North Korea falls, are we rushing in to try to secure the nuclear 
sites? Is South Korea? Is China? Is everybody in some sort of agreement 
as to what takes place to secure these nuclear sites?

What are we doing on humanitarian issues for 20 million people, many 
of whom will be starving during that period of time--where a number of 
them are starving now in North Korea?



This is a very present and pressing issue and instead we are on hate 
crimes legislation.

As a nation, we will not tolerate violent crime, and I am appalled by 
news stories of individuals being assaulted or even killed because of 
their ethnicity, their beliefs, who they are. I am appalled by violence 
done to those who choose any sort of lifestyle they may choose. I 
believe we must send a strong message through our law enforcement and 
judicial system that such attacks would bring the full force of law 
upon those who commit such terrible acts.

I do appreciate the good will and sincerity of those who wish to 
expand hate crimes legislation. However, I do not believe such 
legislation in this body from the Federal Government is the answer. I 
do not think that is something we should be doing on a Department of 
Defense authorization bill when we are facing such key strategic 
threats internationally and we have forces in the field in Iraq and in 
Afghanistan today. This is not the place. This is not the time.

First, I believe that the severity of a crime should be based upon 
actions committed. If a violent crime is committed, then the 
perpetrator should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. 
Every violent crime ought to be treated as severe, regardless of why it 
was committed. Every life has value, and every murder is an egregious 
crime.

Our law enforcement and judicial system should be focused on holding 
individuals accountable for what they do, not what they think, feel or 
believe. During the passage of the Statute for Establishing Religious 
Freedom in 1785, James Madison expressed, ''extinguished for ever the 
ambitious hope of making laws for the human mind.'' He clearly opposed 
any law that punished the thoughts or motives of people. Laws already 
exist to punish crimes themselves.

The Matthew Shepard, hate crimes bill authorizes the prosecution of a 
crime motivated by actually or perceived race, color, religion national 
origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability of the 
victim. This is another example in which a thought or belief becomes an 
element of prosecuting crime.

Second, I oppose this bill because I believe it would usurp the power 
and jurisdiction of the States. It violates constitutional federalism 
by asserting Federal law enforcement power to police local conduct over 
which the Constitution has reserved sole authority to the 50 States. No 
matter how upset Americans and politicians might be about certain 
criminal behavior, every criminal offense and every authorization of 
criminal enforcement power should be restricted by the explicit 
principles of the Constitution as well as our long-established criminal 
law precedents.

Currently, 45 States, as well as the District of Columbia, have hate 
crime laws. Many of these State laws carry heavier penalties than those 
proposed in this hate crimes bill. During the Judiciary Committee's 
hearing on hate crimes, Secretary Holder was asked to prove that there 
is evidence that hate crimes cases are not receiving proper prosecution 
and sentencing at the State level. He was unable to produce any.

Even members of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, the commission 
of the U.S. Federal Government charged with the responsibility for 
investigating, reporting on, and making recommendations concerning 
civil rights issues that face the Nation, oppose this bill. Their 
concern is that this law will allow Federal officials to reprosecute 
defendants who have already been acquitted by State juries.

Third, all crime victims deserve equal protection under the law. This 
is granted to them under the 14th amendment. Hate crime laws create a 
multilevel system of justice in which some crime victims' cases are 
prosecuted more severely than others.

Recently during the hate crimes debate in the House of 
Representatives, amendments to add military personnel, pregnant women, 
the elderly, and the homeless to the list of protected classes were all 
defeated. It is wrong to attempt to set up the law to favor one class 
of Americans over another.

Fourth, during the Judiciary hearing on hate crimes, Michael 
Lieberman of the Anti-Defamation League, when referring to hate crimes, 
said that ''these are selective prosecutions.'' We have also heard a 
lot of talk about wanting the Federal Government to send a message 
about the severity of hate crimes. I cannot endorse the idea that 
criminal law should be selective or be used to send a message. Its 
purpose is to prosecute criminal action, not to make selective 
statements.

Finally, I oppose this bill because I am concerned that it could be 
used to prosecute against religious leaders and organizations for 
speaking out against acts they find morally unacceptable. Hate crime 
laws have already been used in foreign countries to silence people of 
faith who speak their opinion on homosexuality that is derived from 
their faith.

The other side continues to insist that this bill does not prosecute 
speech, only criminal actions. Yet there is great concern within 
religious communities that the Federal Government could prosecute their 
leaders and members criminally based on their speech or other protected 
activity. This is a chilling threat to the first amendment right to 
free speech for people of faith and freedom of religion. I urge my 
colleagues to vote against this amendment.

I wish to point out and say to my colleagues, particularly the 
chairman who is on the floor, my hope is, once we get past hate crimes, 
we will remain on the Department of Defense authorization and take up 
the issue of North Korea. I know some may say: Well, that is not 
germane to the Department of Defense bill. I think it is a lot closer 
than what we are on right now. I would hope we would bring up this 
issue because of the clear and present problems we are facing on this 
issue.

I know the chairman of this committee knows this issue very well. I 
have worked with him on this issue previously. So we have now a 
bipartisan bill to relist them as a terrorist country that we are 
bringing forward. I met with our nominee to be Ambassador to China 
today, saying we should begin planning with the Chinese Government 
today for the failure of the North Korea state taking place in this 
successionist order.

The North Koreans are acting peculiarly, even by North Korean 
standards, with all the missiles they have launched, the nuclear 
weapons they have put in play, the things they have stated lately. They 
are normally provocative, but this is an all-out scale of provocation 
that is taking place now.

It would be my hope we could bring this up and at least start to 
address what clearly is opening to be a major problem. Whether the 
Obama administration wants to address it now or the Senate wants to 
address it now, we may not have a choice. If he is facing pancreatic 
cancer and there is a successionist battle taking place in a nuclear-
armed missile country of North Korea and us having 25,000, 27,000 
troops just south in South Korea, we may not have a choice. We need to 
get this addressed. So I would hope the chairman of the committee could 
take this up at that proper time.

I appreciate this chance and to be able to put this statement into 
the Record. I think it is prudent for us to start to address some 
things that are right on and in front of us rather than this hate 
crimes legislation that does not apply to the Department of Defense 
bill.

I yield the floor.