---
---

# IRAQ
## `0e125ab67bba6ab4e0528f5b7d4fbe41`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, from the gravity of the terms 
with which the senior Senator from Ohio has spoken, I know the Senator 
speaks from his heart. This Senator certainly concurs it is of the 
utmost importance of the interests of the United States that we are 
successful in Iraq because of the threat to the security interests to 
our country in that region of the world.

If someone will look at a map, we have the Persian Gulf, and on the 
eastern portion of the Persian Gulf is the Strait of Hormuz, which is 
only 19 miles wide, through which most of the super oil tankers of the 
world have to flow out of the Persian Gulf, or if you are from an Arab 
country, the Arabian Gulf into the great oceans of the world to an oil-
thirsty world. That is clearly one interest.

Another interest is clearly the fact that Iran wants to build a 
nuclear weapon. What an enormously destabilizing situation that would 
be to put in a rogue nation's hands that is not unaccustomed to 
peddling things to itchy fingers that like to exact mischief on the 
rest of the world. You put a nuclear weapon in those itchy fingers, and 
we have a whole new kind of threat to the stability of the civilized 
world.


But there are other reasons--the reasons of countries that have been 
in enormous strife, countries that have been very favorable to the 
United States, as the country of Jordan and all of the internal turmoil 
they have. I could go on and on, but there are so many reasons why it 
is very necessary that the United States have success in that part of 
the world.

But what we are coming down to is a momentous decision tomorrow, at 
1:45 p.m., on whether we are going to continue a policy of this 
administration of stay-the-course or whether we are going to change 
that course. This Senator believes we should change that course and 
that the President's decision to put additional troops into Baghdad is 
not changing the course, it is more of the course. It is putting more 
American lives into a sectarian violence caldron where the temperature 
is so high that we see the reports every day of more and more killings.

Now, this violence did not just start. This violence started 1,327 
years ago, when, after the death of Mohammed, the prophet, there was a 
power play, and his grandson was eliminated as one of the natural heirs 
to the Prophet Mohammed, and the power was controlled within the 
clerics who had succeeded Mohammed. It was in that grandson's clan that 
they then started a resistance born out of revenge, and that then 
started the separation of the Shiites from what are today the Sunnis. 
And that has happened for 1,327 years. In the midst of that full-scale 
civil warfare, this Senator does not believe it is in the interest of 
our country to put in an additional 17,500 American lives. This Senator 
believes we ought to force the Iraqis to stop killing each other and to 
start working out their differences.

Now, at the same time, as recommended by the Iraq study commission, 
it is clearly important that we have a vigorous international 
diplomatic initiative to engage all the countries in the region to help 
bear upon Iraq and that sectarian warfare to get them to try to come to 
their senses, to try to start striking peace instead of warfare, 
because all of the countries in the region clearly understand that is 
in their interest. You take a country such as Saudi Arabia. One of the 
worst things in the world would be if Iraq was just completely 
enveloped in chaos; the same with Jordan--two of our friends in the 
region.

It is in the interests of the United States to conduct this 
diplomatic initiative in a way that it has not been done in the last 4 
years: engaging people whom we have refused to engage, listening and 
learning in the process, instead of always imposing or giving the 
perception of imposing ourselves on


everybody else, and at the same time letting the forces that are there 
stabilize instead of putting more American lives at risk.

So we come to a momentous decision that will come tomorrow afternoon: 
Do we keep the same course or do we start changing the course with new 
and fresh ideas, with ideas that have clearly been laid out in the Iraq 
study commission? It is the conclusion of this Senator that we ought to 
send a very strong message to the White House that the time for 
changing the stay-the-course policy is now.














 Tribute to Dan Shapiro


Mr. President, I want to make note, in the presence of my longtime, 
very faithful staff member, Dan Shapiro, who has served me so ably for 
over 6 years as legislative director, that the needs of providing for 
his little family have called upon him to leave the public sector, 
where he has been engaged for years, to enter into the private sector. 
I want to say on behalf of the people of Florida and the people of the 
Nelson office that we are grateful for his public service.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.