# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `0e15db259152d504562eb4aeddc9ee1e`
`Mr. BENNET — 21 September 2009`

---


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today 
to honor the life and heroic service of Army Sergeant Youvert Loney. 
Sergeant Loney, a member of the 2nd Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment, 
4th Infantry Division at Fort Carson, CO, died on September 5, 2009. 
Sergeant Loney was serving in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in 
Abad, Afghanistan, and sustained injuries when insurgents attacked his 
vehicle using small arms and rifles. He was 28 years old.

A native of Pohnpei, Federated States of Micronesia, Sergeant Loney 
moved to Fort Carson in 2006 when he was assigned to the 4th Infantry 
Division. Sergeant Loney joined the Army in October 2005. He served in 
Operation Iraqi Freedom from October 2006 until December 2007, 
contributing to renewed efforts to successfully secure Baghdad. He had 
served in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan with Fort Carson's 
Fourth Brigade Combat Team since June. Last month, his battalion worked 
to ensure security for Afghanistan's recent presidential elections.

During his nearly 4 years of service, Sergeant Loney distinguished 
himself through his courage, dedication to duty, and willingness to 
take on any challenge--no matter how dangerous. Commanders recognized 
his extraordinary bravery and talent, bestowing on Sergeant Loney more 
than 12 awards and medals, including two Purple Heart Medals, the 
Bronze Star, the Army Commendation Medal, the Army Good Conduct Medal, 
and the National Defense Service Medal.

Sergeant Loney is remembered by those who knew him as a consummate 
professional and friend who they could turn to in times of need. Most 
of all, they remember his devotion to his wife, his children, and his 
country.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' Sergeant 
Loney's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by selflessly 
putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He lived without 
fear.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield was 
uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Sergeant Loney will forever be remembered as one of our 
country's bravest.

To Sergeant Loney's father Loakim, his wife Flora, his children, and 
all his friends and family--I cannot imagine the sorrow you must be 
feeling. I hope that in time the pain of your loss will be eased by 
your pride in Youvert's service and by your knowledge that his country 
will never forget him. We are humbled by his service and his sacrifice.
