---
---

# None
## `0e2713f4cabca06380433157feae5615`
`Mr. GOHMERT — 28 May 2010`

---


Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, it has been quite a week. We've heard 
friends across the aisle get up and talk about how we've ''expanded 
civil rights in the military.'' And I appreciate the fact that friends 
believe they did a wonderfully noble thing for the military, just as 
they would probably think they did a wonderfully noble thing to expand 
civil rights in courts martial that occur in the military. But the fact 
is, under our United States Constitution, that so many people want to 
keep referring to when it's convenient, it anticipates that there will 
be different rights afforded in different areas, one of which is in our 
United States military.

The purpose of the military is not to be some socially engineered 
experiment. It is to do one thing, and that is to protect our homeland, 
protect our way of life. For that reason, the Constitution anticipated 
that Congress, under its authority to create courts, could set up 
military commissions, could set up and pass the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice, which gave the military an entirely different type of 
structure when it comes to processing their rights and adjudicating 
different aspects of military life. Because to do otherwise, to give 
everyone in the military, as I was for 4 years, the same rights that 
are afforded in a civilian court means that you can destroy the 
function of the military because so often the military doesn't have 
time to do all of the same things a civilian court does. That's why the 
UCMJ was created, that's why it's constitutional, and that's why we 
needed some forum like that for our military.

It is always an honor to get to speak in this hallowed Hall, but 
hopefully we can cast some light on what it means to be in the military 
because, for example, if you are suspected and there is probable cause 
to believe that a military member has committed a crime, then it can be 
pursued as an article 15, nonjudicial punishment. And as we saw with 
the outrageous pursuit of an article 15 against three valiant 
servicemembers, they had the right to choose not to accept the 
nonjudicial punishment that could have forced them into restriction, 
extra duty, taken away pay, dropped them in rank. Instead of having 
that forced on them, they were afforded their right, under the UCMJ, to 
say I'm not going to accept this; I want to go to trial in a court 
martial. That's what occurred, and all three were acquitted--
fortunately and appropriately. But that's one of the ways.

Another way is the commander, at different levels of command, can 
order a court martial be convened. A court will be convened, and a 
military judge is appointed. And if it is the commanding general of a 
facility, he can order a general court martial, the highest level court 
martial under the UCMJ. And at that general court martial, you can have 
a dishonorable discharge--and it depends on the crime as to how serious 
the punishment could be--but it could be as serious as a dishonorable 
discharge and even life in prison. So it's a very serious matter.

But whereas during the days when I was a prosecutor, an attorney, a 
judge, a chief justice, when there was a jury selection in a civil 
court, you randomly sent out notices and randomly brought people in, 
and then you went through a jury qualification with all of those and 
called out those who did not meet the requirements of the law to be a 
juror in a particular case. And then once the jury panel was qualified, 
they were brought before the parties of a particular case and they went 
through what we in Texas call voir dire, but most of the country calls 
voir dire--it's just the way we talk in Texas. But during voir dire, 
the attorneys have the opportunity to ask questions of the jury panel 
so that they can determine whether or not there are people who can be 
struck for cause, and to also allow them to exercise what are called 
peremptory strikes so they can go through--and in Texas, you can have 
as many as 10 strikes in the right cases--to strike them for any reason 
as long as it was not prohibited by the Constitution, strike people for 
no reason.

In the military, if a commanding general convenes a court martial, it 
means he has signed off ordering that that servicemember be prosecuted. 
So he's the convening authority for the court martial. He has ordered 
that this person be prosecuted, so he is satisfied in his mind, he 
thinks this guy ought to be prosecuted, brought to justice. And then 
that same authority gets to pick the people who will be on the jury. 
And the attorney for the defendant in the military will have no rights 
to peremptory challenges as you would in the civilian court. They would 
have no right to try to determine who he would like to strike for 
peremptory reasons.

It's a very difficult process for a defendant or defense attorney. 
There are cases in which someone can get life in prison in the military 
and may only have five members handpicked by the commanding general to 
be on the jury. Now, why would that be allowed? That probably just 
really infuriates some who are so concerned about civil rights and they 
will say, well, that's not fair. But what they don't understand is, in 
the military, you can't go through all the processes that we have so 
luxuriously been bestowed with in the civilian sector and still be able 
to fight wars and protect us against all these enemies, foreign and 
domestic. There has to be a difference in the rights that are afforded 
those in the military and those in the civilian sector, or the military 
cannot function. If they are out on the battlefield, they don't have 
time to go through a full civil trial and afford all the civil rights 
because, if they did, they would lose every battle. You can't do that 
to them and expect them to defend us.

So there are different rights for those in the military than those in 
American society, and it has to be so to have the strongest military 
that mankind and the world and history has ever known and ever seen, 
and that is exactly what we have today.

But our military was made promises earlier this year from the White 
House through the leadership here in Congress. They were promised that 
we're looking at changing the policy of Don't Ask, Don't Tell, which 
will allow those who practice homosexuality to do so openly and 
overtly. For most of the history of our Nation, the military has made 
sodomy a crime for which you could go to prison. So we've made a 
dramatic turn in more recent years so that people could feel 
comfortable that they are afforded all the civil rights.

We're moving to giving our military all the civil rights that we all 
have in the civilian sector, not realizing a military can't function 
like that, not realizing that the military has to have different 
rights, to some extent, in order


to function properly. Because those in the military and most who have 
served in the military--obviously not all--out of the millions and 
millions and millions--our colleagues across the aisle keep talking 
about 13,000--but of the millions and millions and millions who have 
served in our military, most understand that when you are in harm's way 
and you have people firing at you and you're hunkered down in a bunker 
or you're in a foxhole, you're in an untenable position and lives are 
at risk, that one of the strongest tendencies in the human body, the 
sexual urge, needs to be one that is not an issue. So whether it is 
those who cannot control their urges of heterosexuality or 
homosexuality, it absolutely should not be an issue when it comes to 
combat.


And because those in the military have been scared to death of what 
kind of transformative change the repeal of Don't Ask, Don't Tell would 
have, what it would mean, what it would do to their functioning, their 
ability to function as a military and protecting us, they ask, At least 
let us submit our opinions, let us give you our input. We're the ones 
out here willing to lay down our lives for you in Congress, for you in 
America, for you in the ACLU. We're the ones out here willing to lay 
down our lives for you, let us have some input, let us tell you how it 
is in the military because we're not sure you understand it has to be 
different in the military for the military to function.

And our White House and our majority leaders in Congress said, We 
hear you and we'll listen to you. We're going to do a study, and it's 
due December 1 of this year. And we will get your input because you're 
out there willing to lay down your lives for us, so we'll get your 
input and we'll have a study on exactly what kind of transformation 
this will make in the military. Will there have to be separate quarters 
for heterosexual males and homosexual males and heterosexual females 
and homosexual females? I mean, what is this going to look like in the 
military? What are we going to need to do in the way of facilities to 
accommodate the different types of sexual attraction?

It's going to be an interesting question, and I think it's very 
important to get that study. We need to know what it's going to do. How 
much is it going to cost our military in the way of time and 
transformation at the very time they're losing their lives in 
Afghanistan? We still lose some in Iraq. And what many people don't 
know and what broke my heart in peacetime was to attend funerals of 
military friends during peacetime, because people die even in peacetime 
in the military. What is it going to do to the military trying to adapt 
to another potential war?

What if Iran gets their nuclear weapons because all we're doing is 
playing footsie talking about sanctions at a time that Iran's 
centrifuges continue to spin, they're spinning, they're continuing to 
enrich uranium, they're getting closer every day to not having the 
small amount they've got, but moving toward full enrichment and the 
full bomb that could take out Israel. And if you read the quotes from 
Ahmadinejad, he makes it very clear--even though reporters in America 
have been scared to ask him anything other than ridiculous questions 
and not get to his claims that he is going to destroy the ''Great 
Satan'' America--he has made clear that our way of life needs to be 
wiped off the planet, as does that in Israel. He has made it very 
clear. And in furtherance of that goal, he has made clear they're 
continuing to move toward nuclear weapons, and we are not going to stop 
them.

And we talk about sanctions. Now, China, to their credit, has been 
honest. They say, we don't want to go along with sanctions. I've been 
very concerned that China will come along and say, you know what? We'll 
agree to sanctions, just like Germany, France and Russia did against 
Iraq during the Oil-for-Food sanctions. And then we found out later 
after we went into Iraq that Germany, France and Russia had been 
cheating and had made billions and billions of dollars. They loved 
having the sanctions because it meant they had no competition because 
everyone else was observing the sanctions.



So, it is to China's credit that they have at least been honest 
enough to say they don't think the idea of sanctions is a good idea 
because, if they did and if China said, Okay. Okay. We'll do sanctions, 
and then they started cheating, not only have we not done anything with 
sanctions, but we've enriched people who wouldn't mind seeing us leave 
this Earth as the greatest Nation in history. So we need our military 
to be able to function as well as it is now.

We have heard testimonials from those who have said, I had a friend 
who couldn't stand to keep his homosexual feelings private. He had to 
go overt. He had to go public. He wanted everybody in the military to 
know. Yet, even though the vast majority of the military says that 
creates a real problem for us, our majority voted yesterday: Not only 
are we going to force you to have a different system than you've ever 
had before, but we don't care what you think.

Now, we've heard today that--let's see. I believe the term 
''political grandstanding'' was used. The fact is I've been heartbroken 
for my friends in the military. People I know so well are heartbroken 
over what we've done. We've betrayed our promise to the military. When 
I say ''we,'' I mean this body. We are part of it. We have betrayed our 
promise to the military that we would hear them out.

Why would we rush in and pass the elimination of Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell right now? We told them we'd wait for the study, and people 
yesterday were saying, Well, we're going to wait for the study. We're 
just going to pass it now that we're going to eliminate it, regardless 
of what they say, and then we'll get the study at the end of the year 
and use that.

Well, the headlines already hit the paper--last night and this 
morning. The military reads the news. Although, they can't complain 
about things that their Commander in Chief orders because that would be 
punishable by court-martial. They read the news. They know when they 
are about to be adversely affected, and they know when they've been 
made promises that haven't been kept by the very people sending them 
out to potentially lay down their lives, and they know the headlines in 
the papers all read that the House voted yesterday to repeal Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell.

Is it so much to ask in the military that you keep your sexual 
desires private so that we all concentrate on our military missions? 
Wouldn't that be a good idea?

You know, I've known people to be kicked out of the military for 
having affairs because it has adversely affected the morale and the 
well-being of the military. You can't put up with that. When it hurts 
its well-being and the morale of the military, it needs to be dealt 
with or you'll lose your military. We've had a policy since 1993 that 
President Clinton put in place, which said, Look. Just keep your sexual 
attractions private, and we welcome you to serve in the military; but 
our number one function in the military is to provide for the common 
defense, and anything that distracts from that is not appropriate.

We heard the civil libertarians, who were so proud last night, 
clapping and cheering over the fact that we've betrayed our promise to 
the military, clapping and rejoicing that the huge, vast majority of 
the military was begging them not to do this, but they wouldn't wait 
for the official report.

I still am heartbroken.

For the charge of political grandstanding on our side of the aisle, I 
come back to the question again:

Why was it so important to betray our promise to the military that we 
would wait and get their input on what was going to have such a 
profound effect on the way they protect us and on the way they live 
every day? Because it isn't like living in the civilian sector. I can 
assure you that.

Could it have been that the political left was getting upset that the 
majority had not done enough for them and their view and that, if they 
didn't rush and do something big to show them they really cared about 
the far left, they would not be there for them in the fall for 
November's election? Could it be that the majority wanted to stay in 
the majority and that they didn't want to lose such an important part 
of their base, albeit the far left end? Could that have been the reason 
that we had to


rush in here and pass this law yesterday and betray our promise to this 
Nation's military?

I am at a loss, particularly as we recess to go home for Memorial Day 
to pay tribute to those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for this 
Nation.

As John 15:13 said, ''Greater love has no one than this, that he lay 
down his life for his friends.'' We are to pay tribute to them at the 
same time we've betrayed the promise we made to them, dramatically 
altering their future.

One other point. Then I have a friend from Minnesota here, and I want 
to yield to her.

On the very day after we betrayed our promise to the military and 
basically said, We don't care what you think. We're going to change 
your way of life, and we're going to change the way everything works in 
the military, particularly while we're in two battlefields, we took up 
today an amendment to H.R. 5116.

In that amendment, all it was asking was that our disabled veterans 
be given the same special consideration that minorities are given under 
this bill, those who are trying to get an education in a college or in 
a university. Most of us over here on this side did not think that was 
such an untenable position.

Our disabled vets, those who have lost part of their lives and their 
ability to function physically, we can't even give them the same 
consideration that a minority gets who attends a college or a 
university?

I figured it would be virtually unanimous. Yet the amendment failed. 
The majority brought down the amendment and said, You know what? 
Disabled veterans, on the day after we betrayed our promise to the 
military, we're not even going to give you the same status as a 
minority in America to help you further your education. We don't want 
you to have that special consideration.

So, if you listen to the beautiful prose that is spoken here on the 
floor, you would believe that every single Member of this House wants 
to do absolutely everything they can for our veterans, but if you look 
at what was done, we've betrayed our military, the promise we made to 
them. Then, the next day, we said, We don't consider you, disabled 
veterans, to be as important as minorities in America.

Why wouldn't they be? I am at a loss.

I yield to my friend from Minnesota.