# None
## `0e3b60107a5b5622365d7667367680d2`
`Mr. KUCINICH â€” 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, I support the dedicated public servants 
of our intelligence community and commend their efforts to ensure our 
national security. However, I must oppose the Motion to Concur in the 
Senate Amendment to H.R. 2701, the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010.

I continue to grow concerned that covert intelligence activities may 
constitute violations of the Constitution and that they severely 
undermine the rule of law. I am further concerned that these activities 
are conducted with total impunity. This legislation includes provisions 
to establish mechanisms of accountability over operations conducted by 
the intelligence community. I support those provisions. However, the 
compromise language included in this bill further weakens already weak 
disclosure requirements. More importantly, the provisions meant to 
address a lack of accountability included in this bill will do nothing 
to control intelligence activities that are tantamount to war.

It was reported in The Washington Post this week that the Central 
Intelligence Agency (CIA) has deployed a covert ''well-armed 3,000-
member Afghan paramilitary force'' that is used for ''surveillance, 
raids and combat operations in Afghanistan. The senior official quoted 
in the article admits that these teams are also ''crucial to the United 
States' secret war in Pakistan.'' In addition to this troubling 
revelation, the CIA has conducted over 20 drone attacks in Pakistan 
just this month. Philip Alston, the UN Special Rapporteur on 
Extrajudicial, Summary or Arbitrary Executions has called on the United 
States to comply with international rule of law and disclose the 
criteria for individuals that may be targeted, how the government 
ensures the drone attacks are legal, and the nature of the follow-up 
the government conducts when civilians are killed. Thus far, the 
Administration has failed to provide any of this information.

These actions severely undermine the rule of law and our moral 
standing in the world. We only stand to gain more enemies if we 
continue to conduct seemingly indiscriminate drone attacks in a country 
with whom we are not at war. We can only further diminish our national 
security with our war in Afghanistan, which includes significant covert 
intelligence operations.

This legislation will not quell the intelligence activities that 
urgently require reform. If this bill allows intelligence agencies to 
continue covert wars in Afghanistan, Pakistan and even Yemen, I cannot 
support this bill. I oppose this legislation and urge my colleagues to 
do the same.