# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2701, INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION
## `0e45e01c2c8fc9a78006517c57f59a6c`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 25 February 2010`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Well, when you speak of the President's 
directions, there were several principal matters that the President 
referenced in his, as you put it, threatened veto. But the veto, more 
specifically, the principal objection was to the Gang of Eight 
restriction that many of us in the committee supported for the reason 
that we think--and thought--that each of the intelligence members 
should be advised by the President the same as those of the Gang of 
Eight.

You know, we use these terms around here. The Gang of Eight are the 
central players--the Speaker, the minority leader, the majority leader, 
and the committee Chairs and ranking members. That is who that small 
kernel of people are who receive specific information. I hope the 
public at least understands some aspect of that.

The point that I was trying to make and will continue to make is--let 
me give you a for example. In the last month, I have visited our 
intelligence operations in nine countries, including Saudi Arabia, 
Turkey, Israel, Jordan, Egypt, Ukraine, Germany, just to mention a few. 
In each of those places--and there were others that will go 
unmentioned--in each of those places I learned of immense success and 
reporting of successes coming back here to the intelligence community 
and to the President. Nobody talks about that in the newspaper. Nobody 
talks about that in this particular setting. You pick three incidents 
out of thousands of successes and point to a community's failures. I 
can't accept that.

For 10 years I have watched on this committee these people work their 
hearts out, Republicans and Democrats, under the leadership of--friends 
of mine and yours--Porter Goss, who led this committee, others long 
before Leon Panetta, and the other committees that don't even get 
mentioned at all because most people don't even know that they have 
intelligence operations. What would happen in this world, what would 
happen with our allies if we did not have the SIGNET? How would we be 
having the successes that we are having in Afghanistan today of picking 
off leaders of Taliban, leaders of al Qaeda?

All the time it seems to me that all that comes out as is, oh, they 
just took out another one, but it doesn't get played up. If one of them 
managed to get to Canada and to the United States, then that would be 
the biggest talk that we would have here in Congress. It's not fair, 
and fairness to the intelligence community is as deserving as any other 
parts of our bureaucracy that fail considerably, including this 
institution.