# None
## `0e6597a8c9fd98bd1b97d47a9b1d20fc`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 23 July 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, allow me to rise and yield 
myself such time as I may consume to thank Mr. Latham for his 
sensitivity and leadership.

Mr. Speaker, let me acknowledge that there are men and women as we 
speak on the front lines in the battle for their Nation. Many in Iraq 
and Afghanistan but many lose their lives elsewhere around the world in 
the Nation's uniform.

This is an instructive and important legislative initiative, but can 
we imagine being lost in battle, a fallen soldier who's not able to 
provide for his or her family or his child? H. Con. Res. 175 and the 
backdrop of those who are now losing their lives in battle will help 
the children of these fallen soldiers by providing necessary guidance 
to the courts about how to treat the expressed desires of a deceased 
servicemember when it comes to the distribution of a death gratuity.

Hopefully, the constituent of Mr. Latham and many others will find 
refuge and relief. It is certainly not the Nation's desire to leave 
them wanting and destitute.

This particular bill provides comfort to those who need comfort and 
financial support for those who are suffering.

I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution so the 
wishes of the soldiers are given proper respect and consideration and a 
grateful Nation is truly grateful.

Let me also thank the ranking member, Mr. Smith; the full committee 
chair, Mr. Conyers; Mr. Berman and Mr. Coble of which this particular 
amendment and legislation has come through. And we ask that the 
legislation be passed with great support in this body.

I ask my colleagues to support it.