---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `0e658f03e042ffe33dee062cc56812f8`
`Mr. ROSS — 11 December 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Florida, the administrative 
cochair of the Blue Dogs, Mr. Allen Boyd from Florida's Second 
Congressional District, for being a part of this Special Order this 
evening, as he is so many Tuesday evenings.

What we are talking about here, Madam Speaker, is the Republican 
Congress, the Republican administration, after having a balanced budget 
under President Clinton for the first time in 40 years, gave us the 
largest debt ever in our Nation's history, largest deficit ever in our 
Nation's history, and there has been a lot of talk about all this.

Mr. Tanner was talking earlier about how this administration has 
borrowed more money from foreigners than the previous 42 Presidents 
combined. That has to be paid back with interest. And to put it in 
perspective, the Federal Government has sent $709 billion abroad in the 
form of interest payments since President Bush took office, and $155 
billion in 2007 alone. The same amount would fund any of the following: 
The amount of money this administration has sent to foreigners to pay 
interest on the debt that we have borrowed from them to fund tax cuts 
in this country for folks earning over $400,000 a year. With the 
interest paid on this debt, this foreign debt, the amount of your tax 
money, Madam Speaker, that we have sent overseas, with that amount of 
money, we could have built 12,000 new elementary schools, 7,000 new 
veterans clinics, and I might remind you, Madam Speaker, we have a new 
generation of veterans coming home from Afghanistan and Iraq. And get 
this: We could have funded all road and bridge construction and 
improvements for 10 years.

It's about priorities, and it's time this Nation got its priorities 
in order. It's time we got our fiscal house in order. Make no mistake 
about it, Madam Speaker, for the second time this week we are going to 
send to the Senate an AMT fix that ensures that no, not one, additional 
taxpayer is liable for the AMT tax. Not one. Madam Speaker, we are 
paying for it, and as conservative Democrats we are reaching across the 
aisle and we are begging, we are begging Republicans to join us in 
doing the right thing and fixing this the right way.
