---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 3326,  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010; FOR CONSIDERATION OF  HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION 64, FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL  YEAR 2010; FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 4314, PERMITTING CONTINUED  FINANCING OF GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS; FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE  AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2847, JOBS FOR MAIN STREET ACT, 2010
## `0e66c7a0ecd469ccf89b5bdd60c02d68`
`Mr. ARCURI — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. ARCURI. I would like to thank my colleague from Maine for 
yielding.

I rise today in support of consideration of H.R. 3326, the Department 
of Defense Appropriations Act and the underlying rule, not for the 
reasons just stated by my friend from Texas, but because the bill 
ensures that our brave men and women who are in the military are paid 
what they deserve to be paid for defending us, that they have the tools 
to fight the war on terror and that they are able to do the things that 
we ask them to do, and that is to fight terror, to keep us safe. That 
is why I support this bill and the underlying rule.

I would like to thank and commend the members of the Appropriations 
Committee in the House and Senate, their counterparts for bringing 
before us this bipartisan approach that puts the preparedness and 
safety of our troops first, and also continues President Obama's pledge 
to put the cost of the war on the books.

The bill does not include funding for an escalation of troops in 
Afghanistan, and I have heard some of my colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle criticize that we may have to consider a supplemental 
measure to provide funds for that purpose. I want to make it very 
clear. There is a difference between requesting supplemental funding to 
address changes on the ground and simply using the supplemental 
appropriation acts to fund the majority of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan as we have done under the prior administration.

The House passed our version of the Defense Appropriations Act on 
July 30 of this year. At that time we determined the amount of spending 
necessary for the ongoing operation in Iraq and Afghanistan. Since that 
time, our generals have stated that they believe conditions in 
Afghanistan warrant additional troops. President Obama is listening to 
those generals in the field and may require additional funds. However, 
that is what supplemental appropriations acts are intended for, 
responding to changes in circumstances throughout the year, not for 
funding ongoing operations.

In addition to ensuring that our troops have first-class weapons and 
equipment, the bill also includes other important aspects that improve 
transparency and accountability of the Defense Department procurement 
process.

For instance, congressional earmarks account for only 1 percent of 
the total funding of this bill. In addition, for the first time, this 
House-Senate agreement retains the requirement that has been included 
in every House-passed appropriations bill this year that requires any 
earmark for a private company to be competed.

I applaud the leadership of our side of the Capitol to institute this 
important new measure of accountability in the earmark process, and I 
hope that it will become a part of all final spending bills as we go 
forward.

I urge my colleagues to support this rule and the bill.