---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `0e6c41c392d94f4ddc97d68bb5ca023d`
`Mr. STARK — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, today's vote is very difficult for me.

I support the immediate withdrawal of American troops from Iraq.

The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability 
Act is a significant improvement over the President's failed Iraq 
policies. For years, Bush has sent our troops into harms way without 
the proper equipment. Today's legislation aims to hold the 
Administration accountable for its own readiness standards--and for the 
benchmarks President Bush himself proposed for Iraqi government 
performance. This bill also goes farther toward providing an actual end 
date for this war than any other legislation that has reached the House 
floor.

I applaud Speaker Pelosi, Jack Murtha, and Dave Obey for this 
significant achievement. I wish I could support my Speaker today and 
vote with the overwhelming majority of my Democratic colleagues. But, I 
can't vote ''yes.''

I ran for Congress because of my strong opposition to our 
government's unyielding commitment to the Vietnam War. I didn't think 
it made sense for American men and women to die for the half-truths of 
the Johnson and Nixon Administrations. Today, I don't think it makes 
any more sense for lives to be lost for the outright lies of the Bush 
regime.

I voted against the original resolution authorizing the President to 
take military action against Iraq. At the time, I said I didn't trust 
this president and his advisors.

During the war's four long years, nothing has happened to convince me 
otherwise. On the contrary, the Bush Administration has repeatedly 
misled the American people about Iraq. They lied to Congress about 
Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, about the cost and length of the 
war, and about meeting arbitrary benchmarks.

Their goalposts keep moving. The amount of money they requested for 
this supplemental alone is nearly twice the amount they initially 
projected the war would cost in its entirety.

Throughout my career in Congress, I've voted against defense spending 
and against war. Building new weapons systems and waging war doesn't 
solve problems. If the last four years are any indication, it actually 
makes them worse.

The longer we stay in Iraq, the higher the cost of this senseless 
war. Unless we withdraw immediately, the Shiite-Sunni civil war will 
continue taking the lives of additional American troops and Iraqi 
civilians. Education, health care, and other domestic needs will go 
under-funded in America while additional billions are spent in Iraq. 
And our international allies will further doubt our actions and 
intentions around the world.

Despite my utmost respect for my colleagues who crafted this bill, I 
can't in good conscience vote to continue this war. Nor, however, can I 
vote ''no'' and join those who think today's legislation goes too far 
toward withdrawal.

That's why I'm making the difficult decision to vote ''present.'' My 
vote should be interpreted as opposing the war's continuation while 
permitting this Congress--under Speaker Pelosi's leadership--to deliver 
a strong message to President Bush that his blank check to wage war has 
been canceled.

I urge my colleagues to vote their consciences and help end the war 
in Iraq.