# FUTURE INVOLVEMENT IN AFGHANISTAN
## `0e79deea69feba31a28188797e2b23e3`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Let me just say in closing, I want to associate myself 
with the comments of my colleague, Mr. Jones.

I also will insert in the Record two recent articles, one that 
appeared in The Washington Post, entitled ''U.S. Envoy Resists Increase 
in Troops: Concerns Voiced About Karzai,'' in which Ambassador 
Eikenberry apparently has raised many of the same issues that we have 
raised here, and the other from the L.A. Times, ''Ridding Afghanistan 
of Corruption Will Be No Easy Task,'' and it's an article that goes 
into great detail about the corruption that exists in Afghanistan.








 [From the Washington Post, Nov. 12, 2009]









 U.S. Envoy Resists Increase in Troops







(By Greg Jaffe, Scott Wilson and Karen DeYoung)




 The U.S. ambassador in Kabul sent two classified cables to 


 Washington in the past week expressing deep concerns about 


 sending more U.S. troops to Afghanistan until President Hamid 


 Karzai's government demonstrates that it is willing to tackle 


 the corruption and mismanagement that has fueled the 


 Taliban's rise, senior U.S. officials said.



 Karl W. Eikenberry's memos, sent as President Obama enters 


 the final stages of his deliberations over a new Afghanistan 


 strategy, illustrated both the difficulty of the decision and 


 the deepening divisions within the administration's national 


 security team. After a top-level meeting on the issue 


 Wednesday afternoon--Obama's eighth since early last month--


 the White House issued a statement that appeared to reflect 


 Eikenberry's concerns.



 ''The President believes that we need to make clear to the 


 Afghan government that our commitment is not open-ended,'' 


 the statement said. ''After years of substantial investments 


 by the American people, governance in Afghanistan must 


 improve in a reasonable period of time.''



 On the eve of his nine-day trip to Asia, Obama was given a 


 series of options laid out by military planners with 


 differing numbers of new U.S. deployments, ranging from 


 10,000 to 40,000 troops. None of the scenarios calls for 


 scaling back the U.S. presence in Afghanistan or delaying the 


 dispatch of additional troops.



 But Eikenberry's last-minute interventions have highlighted 


 the nagging undercurrent of the policy discussion: the U.S. 


 dependence on a partnership with a Karzai government whose 


 incompetence and corruption is a universal concern within the 


 administration. After months of political upheaval, in the 


 wake of widespread fraud during the August presidential 


 election, Karzai was installed last week for a second five-


 year term.



 In addition to placing the Karzai problem prominently on 


 the table, the cables from Eikenberry, a retired three-star 


 general who in 2006-2007 commanded U.S. troops in 


 Afghanistan, have rankled his former colleagues in the 


 Pentagon--as well as Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, defense 


 officials said. McChrystal, the top U.S. and NATO commander 


 in Afghanistan, has stated that without the deployment of an 


 additional tens of thousands of troops within the next year, 


 the mission there ''will likely result in failure.''



 Eikenberry retired from the military in April as a senior 


 general in NATO and was sworn in as ambassador the next day. 


 His position as a former commander of U.S. forces in 


 Afghanistan is likely to give added weight to his concerns 


 about sending more troops and fan growing doubts about U.S. 


 prospects in Afghanistan among an increasingly pessimistic 


 public and polarized Congress.



 Although Eikenberry's extensive military experience and 


 previous command in Afghanistan were the key reasons Obama 


 chose him for the top diplomatic job there, the former 


 general had been reluctant as ambassador to weigh in on 


 military issues. Some officials who favor an increase in 


 troops said they were surprised by the last-minute nature of 


 his strongly worded cables.



 In these and other communications with Washington, 


 Eikenberry has expressed deep reservations about Karzai's 


 erratic behavior and corruption within his government, said 


 U.S. officials familiar with the cables. Since Karzai was 


 officially declared reelected last week, U.S. diplomats have 


 seen little sign that the Afghan president plans to address 


 the problems they have raised repeatedly with him.



 U.S. officials were particularly irritated by a interview 


 this week in which a defiant Karzai said that the West has 


 little interest in Afghanistan and that its troops are there 


 only for self-serving reasons.



 ''The West is not here primarily for the sake of 


 Afghanistan,'' Karzai told PBS's ''The NewsHour With Jim 


 Lehrer'' program. ''It is here to fight terrorism. The United 


 States and its allies came to Afghanistan after September 11. 


 Afghanistan was troubled like hell before that, too. Nobody 


 bothered about us.''



 Karzai expressed indifference when asked about the 


 withdrawal of most of the hundreds of U.N. employees from 


 Afghanistan after a bombing late last month in Kabul. The 


 blast killed five foreign U.N. officials.



 ''They may or may not return,'' he said. ''I don't think 


 Afghanistan will notice it.''



 Eikenberry also has expressed frustration with the relative 


 paucity of funds set aside for spending on development and 


 reconstruction this year in Afghanistan, a country wrecked by 


 three decades of war. Earlier this summer, he asked for $2.5 


 billion in nonmilitary spending for 2010, a 60 percent 


 increase over what Obama had requested from Congress, but the 


 request has languished even as the administration has debated 


 spending billions of dollars on new troops.



 The ambassador also has worried that sending tens of 


 thousands of additional American troops would increase the 


 Afghan government's dependence on U.S. support at a time when 


 its own security forces should be taking on more 


 responsibility for fighting. Before serving as the commander 


 of U.S. forces in Afghanistan, Eikenberry was in charge of 


 the Afghan army training program.



 Each of the four options that were presented to Obama on 


 Wednesday were accompanied by troop figures and the estimated 


 annual costs of the additional deployments, roughly 


 calculated as $1 billion per thousand troops. All would draw 


 the United States deeper into the war at a time of economic 


 hardship and rising fiscal concerns at home.



 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Defense 


 Secretary Robert M. Gates have backed a major increase in 


 U.S. forces to drive the Taliban from populated areas and 


 provide Afghan security forces and the government the space 


 to snuff out corruption and undertake development projects. 


 They have argued that only a large-scale counterinsurgency 


 effort can produce a strong Afghan government capable of 


 preventing the country from once again become an al-Qaeda 


 haven.



 Those views have been balanced in internal deliberations by 


 the hard skepticism of other Obama advisers, led by Vice 


 President Biden. They have argued for a more narrow 


 counterterrorism strategy that would not significantly expand 


 the U.S. combat presence.



 The most ambitious option Obama received Wednesday calls 


 for 40,000 additional U.S. troops, as outlined by McChrystal 


 in his stark assessment of the war filed in late August.



 Military planners put the additional annual cost of 


 McChrystal's recommendation at $33 billion, although White 


 House officials say the number is probably closer to $50 


 billion. The extra troops would allow U.S. forces to attempt 


 to take back and hold several Taliban havens in the southern 


 and eastern regions of Afghanistan.



 One compromise option put forward by the Pentagon, with the 


 backing of Gates, would deploy an additional 30,000 to 35,000 


 U.S. troops--fewer than McChrystal's optimal number to carry 


 out his strategy--and rely on NATO allies to make up the 


 5,000- to 10,000-troop difference. The third option, known by 


 military planners as ''the hybrid,'' would send 20,000 


 additional U.S. troops to shore up security in 10 to 12 major 


 population areas. In the rest of the country, the military 


 would adopt a counterterrorism strategy targeting forces 


 allied with the Taliban and al-Qaeda, primarily in the north 


 and east, with fighter jets, Predator drones and Special 


 Operations troops that leave a light U.S. footprint on the 


 ground. The military puts the annual cost of that option at 


 $22 billion.



 The most modest option calls for deploying an additional 


 10,000 to 15,000 troops. While under consideration at the 


 White House, the proposal holds little merit for military 


 planners because, after building bases to accommodate 10,000 


 or so additional soldiers and Marines, the marginal cost of 


 adding troops beyond that figure would rise only slightly.