---
---

# None
## `0eb8ae9265be0918ab26a16fa748ba8c`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Ms. Wasserman Schultz, you are exactly 
right. I remember standing at a supermarket in my district during the 
campaign or maybe a few years before, and a woman who was, I think, 59, 
58 years old, who had been laid off, and who understandably was having 
trouble finding new employment. It is difficult for older Americans to 
find a new job, especially one that has a comprehensive package of 
benefits. And she looked at me with this blank face and said, ''Why am 
I in this position? Why can I not get health care when I know the 
Medicare program is right there? I am willing to pay for it. I am 
willing to contribute to it. And yet I can't get access to this program 
simply because I have been put into a situation where I can't find a 
job or I can't find a job with benefits, and I don't qualify for the 
program.''

So there are ways that we can help, as you said, those older 
Americans who are on the cusp of being able to qualify for Medicare, 
and certainly the millions of children around this country who have no 
health care insurance and end up getting sick. I mean, they get sick, 
and they come into our emergency rooms to get the care they need. Mr. 
Ryan said here the other night, we do have a system of universal 
coverage in this country; unfortunately, it is in our emergency rooms 
rather than in our doctors' offices and our primary care doctors' 
offices.

And maybe just to tie this back to what we were talking about before 
when it comes to the war in Iraq. You know, we have an obligation to 
our veterans when they come back, and what we have done here over the 
past 10 years to the health care system for veterans is a travesty of 
justice to the brave men and women who have fought for this country.

I absolutely support moving towards universal coverage. I think you 
are right, it doesn't have to be done all at once. In fact, I think the 
best proposals before this body are to really take some commonsense 
approaches to it. But maybe the first thing we should do is start to 
repair some of the damage that we did to the veterans health care 
system to make sure that when you volunteer to serve this country 
abroad, that when you come back, you are going to get the mental health 
care that you need, that you are going to not have to wait in line for 
a surgery that you badly need. Maybe that is our first obligation is to 
take care of those folks, because in the end we are here to serve 
everyone, but we are certainly here to make sure that those people that 
fight for us, Mr. Meek, are taken care of. And I would yield to you.

