# HONORING AMERICAN LEGION POST 1066
## `0eccc0f17764df7dcaf3a89df4b9542a`
`Mr. KING of New York — 3 March 2009`

---


Mr. KING of New York. Madam Speaker, today I rise to honor the 
American Legion's Post No. 1066 in Massapequa, New York and recognize 
its contributions to our country and their community on the occasion of 
its 75th anniversary.

Members of this post have served in many foreign wars including 
Korea, Germany, and Vietnam, actively defending the freedoms and 
liberties that we cherish so much as Americans. Furthermore, several 
members of Post No. 1066 have also served as members of our local 
police and fire departments, as well as local emergency responders. As 
the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, I am 
particularly appreciative of their dedication and hard work.

Over the years, these veterans have served my district on Long Island 
in a number of ways. They have opened their doors to the community to 
serve as a food collection site for the Interfaith Nutritional Network 
and to collect items to send to our servicemen in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Additionally, they have collaborated with the American Red Cross to act 
as a disaster shelter for their neighborhood. They actively support 
local charities and host fundraisers for their benefit.

I am proud to represent these veterans who have served our country. 
They duly deserve praise for their continued participation as active 
citizens of New York and the United States. I would like to thank them 
for their leadership and continued service to our country.
