# None
## `0ed07a34fd84ff8f7e4c8869efda16d1`
`Mr. CORNYN — 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, as we continue to debate proposed 
solutions to our Nation's immigration crisis, we have heard a lot of 
strong language about how important it is that we find a solution. I 
couldn't agree more. At the same time we have been treated to some 
incredible claims, if not downright myths. That is not to say this bill 
is all bad, because it isn't. But neither is it true that it is all 
good and can't be improved by a little time to offer amendments and 
debate them. Instead of a reasonable approach, however, we have been 
told, for example, that this bill is better than the status quo which 
some have defined as de facto amnesty. I disagree. What we have now is 
lawlessness and disorder, not a de facto amnesty.

It has been suggested this bill is better than rounding up 12 million 
undocumented immigrants, so the only option is to confer upon them the 
greatest gift America can give a human being, which is American 
citizenship. The American people can see through that argument in a 
heartbeat. There are plainly other options available, somewhere in the 
middle between those two extremes.

Then we have been told unless we agree to what some have rightly 
identified as indistinguishable from the 1986 amnesty, we can't get 
border security or a secure means of identifying legal workers on the 
job. I ask: Why should security be made a hostage to those demands? 
Employers have been told the only way they can get legal workers to 
fill in labor shortages is the present bill. That clearly is not the 
case.

I believe we can do better than this bill. I sincerely want to fix 
this problem in all of its manifestations. What I do not want to be a 
party to is trying to fool the American people. I value the trust my 
constituents have placed in me too highly to overpromise, which this 
bill does, when the American people have good cause and good reason to 
know we cannot deliver as advertised.

The fallacious arguments I have referred to and the process by which 
this bill has been produced, which further inflame the skepticism of 
the American people, seem only to confirm for many Americans that the 
Senate is not serious about fixing our broken immigration system. If we 
are going to insult the intelligence of the American people with such 
specious justifications for this bill, how can they trust us? Moreover, 
how can they have any confidence that the various assurances on border 
security, worksite enforcement, security checks, and implementation of 
the provisions of this bill will actually work as advertised?

We all know our broken immigration system is a serious threat to 
national security. Border security, after all, is about national 
security. So the question we have to ask ourselves is: Does this bill 
make us safer? The more we have debated the bill, the more I have 
become convinced this legislation is not only dysfunctional, but unless 
corrected, some provisions of this bill present an actual danger to our 
Nation. This bill puts such onerous burdens on our law enforcement 
officials and ties the Government's hands in so much redtape that it 
will make us less, not more, safe. Some of the individuals involved in 
the recently foiled terrorist plots at JFK Airport and Fort Dix were in 
our country illegally. Some of those involved had even been granted 
citizenship by our current flawed immigration system. Thankfully, these 
plots were uncovered before they could be carried out. But knowing that 
there are likely terrorist cells already present in the United States, 
how can we in good conscience grant same-day legal status to more than 
12 million foreign nationals?

Naturally, this bill does purport to require a background check. But 
instead of providing a reasonable timeframe for these reviews, an 
impossible burden is placed on our already overworked citizenship and 
immigration services to provide these checks in 24 hours. It simply 
cannot be done. Under our current immigration system, this office 
already does more of these screenings than it can handle. The 
Government Accountability Office reported last year this agency was 
stretched to the breaking point already. This has resulted in an 
unofficial 6-minute rule, the most amount of time that can be spent 
adjudicating any one application. Adding an average of 48,000 
applications a day more will further backlog an already overtaxed 
system, meaning less in-depth reviews and more haphazardly granted 
visas. Again, more cases and less time for review of these applications 
can do nothing but increase the likelihood of mistakes.

An article in the June 17 edition of the Washington Post explained 
that a large part of the backlog involved in our current system was due 
to FBI name checks. Delays in FBI name checks already force long 
waiting times for citizenship applications. The Post reports that of 
about 329,000 cases pending as of May, 64 percent were stalled for more 
than 90 days, 32 percent for more than 1 year, and 17 percent for more 
than 2 years. They added that the backlog appears to get worse because 
of a fee increase slated to take place in July which has prompted a 50-
percent rise in new naturalization applications so far this year. If a 
new immigration bill is enacted, millions of foreign nationals would 
also apply for legalization.

This problem is even more apparent considering the difficulties the 
State Department and the Department of Homeland Security have had this 
summer in implementing the new western hemisphere travel initiative. Of 
course, this legislation requires American citizens to have a passport 
for travel to Canada or Mexico, where that requirement did not exist 
before. Although the Federal Government had 3 years to get ready for 
this new stricter visa requirement and passport requirement, the 
Federal Government failed to adequately prepare, causing disruptions in 
the lives of tens of thousands of American citizens. If the Federal 
Government can't get it right with 3 years' notice to process passport 
applications for American citizens, how will it deal with the increased 
complexities and burden of processing up to 12 million foreign 
nationals? I wonder what the Government's response will be to the even 
larger backlog this bill will create? Will we simply give up on 
background checks altogether, when the citizenship and immigration 
service realizes what an impossible burden has been placed upon it?

As we overload our already fragile system and background checks are 
either too cursory to be safe or too delayed to meet unrealistic 
deadlines, we will be undoubtedly granting legal status to some 
individuals who should not


get it. The potential danger is actually worse than it might appear at 
first blush. Not only do we need to be concerned about terrorist cells 
and other criminals in our country, we should also be concerned about 
the privileges these individuals will receive with same-day legal 
status.

Most notably, the ability to travel in and out of the United States 
presents a great threat to us and to others. Those already in our 
country with the knowledge and ability to train others could travel to 
foreign nations, teaching terrorist cells everything from combat 
tactics to explosives construction. At the same time, terrorists in our 
Nation who do not possess the knowledge and training to participate in 
such attacks could use their new travel visas to visit training sites 
in other countries, bringing their newfound knowledge back home to 
America.

For example, a May 28 article from the New York Times describes the 
problems created by free travel in and out of nations surrounding Iraq. 
That article says:




 The Iraq war, which for years has drawn militants from 


 around the world, is beginning to export fighters and tactics 


 they have honed in the insurgency to neighboring countries 


 and beyond.


The Times has reported:




 Some of the fighters appear to be leaving as part of the 


 waves of Iraqi refugees crossing borders. . . . But others 


 are dispatched from Iraq for specific missions.


Granting same-day legal status and the privileges that accompany it 
to poorly screened foreign nationals has the risk of making us less 
safe and, indeed, potentially helping spread this threat not just to 
America but to other places around the world.

The impossible goals of this bill do not stop there. The bill calls 
for the Department of Homeland Security to define, procure, develop, 
and implement a worker verification system to check 200 million 
Americans in less than 2 years. How can the American people have any 
faith in the enforcement provisions of this bill when these provisions 
include unattainable goals and untenable standards?

For this reason, it is important we not pass any immigration 
legislation that makes these mistakes and repeats so many from the 1986 
predecessor. I continue to hope we can pass meaningful, safe 
immigration reform. Everyone knows our current immigration system is 
broken, and I wish to see it fixed. But this bill will not do it.

Finally, one of the biggest problems we have had with this 
legislation centers around the way it came to the floor of the Senate. 
Written behind closed doors, this bill did not even see the light of a 
committee room. Instead, it promptly proceeded to the floor of the 
Senate. The short-term result was predictable. Senators wanted to offer 
amendments, many of them including important improvements which might 
have been appropriately dealt with in the committee process.

The majority leader's frustration with the number of amendments being 
offered led to that bill being pulled after almost 2 weeks on the 
Senate floor. Now a new bill is back. Instead of learning from our 
mistakes, the bill has once again been secretly negotiated, and will 
once again forgo the committee process.

What is worse, we have been told it will be presented to us with 
bipartisan amendments already chosen by a select few Senators, 
unrepresentative of the wide variety of strongly held views in the 
Senate.

There is a list of amendments which I believe ought to be included in 
this bill, amendments that I think might find support among my 
colleagues if given an opportunity to offer them--provisions such as 
one that would prevent criminal aliens from delaying and even avoiding 
their deportation by filing frivolous applications for a Z visa, and 
then appealing against those denied applications.

Another amendment I would offer, if given an opportunity, would 
prohibit criminal aliens, including gang members and absconders, from 
tying up our courts with frivolous appeals from the denial of a request 
for a waiver of grounds for removal. The bottleneck sure to ensue 
without these two provisions will cause extensive delays that will only 
increase the costs involved with this bill and allow abuse of the 
system.

A third amendment I would offer, if given an opportunity, would 
require judges to consider national security implications before 
issuing nationwide injunctions against immigration enforcement, an 
essential provision to protecting our border, something this bill 
claims to do.

I wish to add an amendment preventing those who have committed 
terrorist acts or aided terrorists from asserting they are meeting the 
''good moral character'' requirement--something that seems so 
inherently obvious that I am shocked this bill, as currently written, 
would allow it.

Last year, Mohammed El Shorbagi pleaded guilty to providing material 
support to the terrorist organization known as Hamas. His conviction, 
however, did not specifically bar him from seeking American citizenship 
because under the law aiding an organization that routinely fires 
rockets on innocent civilians, families, and neighborhoods, abducts and 
kidnaps individuals, and has most recently staged a violent coup of an 
established unity government does not in any way affect your ''good 
moral character,'' as currently written. It is a dangerous shortcoming 
of our laws which will not be addressed because of the closed and 
secretive manner in which this bill is being considered.

I wish also to limit the timeframe for an appeal to 2 years so that 
court proceedings do not drag on endlessly, wasting tax dollars, and 
allowing those who are not entitled to the benefits of our immigration 
system to remain here indefinitely under the cover of an appeal.

These are only five of the amendments which I wish to offer which I 
think would make this bill better, if I had a chance to offer them and 
if Senators had a chance to vote on them. Others would make it harder 
for gang members to qualify, force immigrants to file a change of 
address notification with the Department of Homeland Security when they 
move, and authorize the detention of dangerous aliens during their 
deportation trial.

Unfortunately, under the process the majority leader will provide us, 
no opportunity for these measures to be considered will be allowed and, 
thus, they will not be in the final bill.

Rather, the world's greatest deliberative body will be presented with 
a bill that has not been fully considered, will not be fully debated, 
and where there will not be an adequate opportunity to offer and vote 
on amendments. Since when did the Senate have so little to say when 
shaping legislation which we will vote on? Since when did the majority 
leader get the power to force legislation on the rest of the Senate?

I cannot support this flawed bill or this broken secret process that 
has produced it. I hope my colleagues will join me in insisting upon 
free and open debates, which are the hallmark of the Senate, and which 
are the only possible path forward to providing a rational, commonsense 
answer to the challenge of immigration reform.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.