# None
## `0ed806bc7273fe21cbc10f2e5305c9ab`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 5 January 2007`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, now begins a new day for America. 
During the first ''100 Hours'' of the 110th Congress, Democrats will 
answer the voters' call for change. We will restore honesty, openness, 
and civility to Congress, require Medicare to negotiate for lower drug 
prices, lower the cost of higher education, raise the minimum wage, 
invest in '' saving embryonic stem cell research and alternative 
energy, and strengthen our homeland security.

The election of Nancy Pelosi as Speaker of the House is a historic 
moment--a testament to Nancy's able, dedicated, and unifying 
leadership. I am confident that Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Majority 
Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Majority Whip James Clyburn (D-SC), Caucus 
Chairman Rahm Emanuel (D-IL), and Caucus Vice Chairman John Larson (D-
CT) will lead us in a new direction that makes our country stronger and 
more just. While we will make great strides during the first ''100 
Hours,'' it's just a downpayment. Even greater change is on the 
horizon.

On November 7th, Americans demonstrated that they will not wait for 
change in Iraq. Three thousand of our troops have lost their lives and 
civil war is spreading. Even the Republican co-chair of the Iraq Study 
Group, James Baker, warned 'We can no longer afford to stay the 
course.' I will work with members of both parties to pressure the Bush 
Administration to begin to draw down troops as quickly as possible so 
that a diplomatic course may be pursued.

While corporations and the few at the top have profited from tax 
breaks and giveaways, the majority of workers and families in our 
country have been left behind. My fight to provide opportunity and 
economic security for the majority of Americans continues. I will work 
provide good jobs with strong benefits, to end waste and abuse in the 
government contracting process, and to protect consumers from corporate 
wrongdoing.

The challenges facing our great nation are many. With a focus on our 
most urgent priorities, Democrats will lead the United States to thrive 
again, as a force for good that provides opportunity for all.
