---
---

# None
## `0edca63978e0fa2b9b685798350ab955`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 4 March 2009`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Madam Speaker, every year more high school seniors 
from the 11th Congressional District trade in varsity jackets for Navy 
pea coats, Air Force flight suits, and Army brass buckles than most 
other districts in the country. But this is nothing new. Our area has 
repeatedly sent an above average contingent of its sons and daughters 
to the nation's military academies for decades.

This should not come as a surprise. The educational excellence of our 
area's schools is well known and has long been a magnet for families 
looking for the best environment in which to raise their children. Our 
graduates are skilled not only in mathematics, science, and social 
studies, but also have solid backgrounds in sports, debate teams, and 
other


extracurricular activities. This diverse upbringing has caught the eye 
of military academy leaders, as many of them now know our towns and 
schools by name.

Since the 1830s, Members of Congress have enjoyed meeting, talking 
with, and nominating those superb young people to our military 
academies. But how did this process evolve? In 1843, when West Point 
was the sole academy, Congress ratified the nominating process and 
became directly involved in the makeup of our military's leadership. 
The procedure, still used today, is a further check and balance in our 
democracy. It was originally designed to weaken and divide political 
coloration in the officer corps, provide geographical balance to our 
armed services, and to make the officer corps more resilient to the 
unfettered nepotism that had handicapped European armies.

In 1854, Representative Gerritt Smith of New York added a new 
component to the academy nomination process, the academy review board. 
This was the first time a Member of Congress appointed prominent 
citizens from his district to screen applicants and assist with the 
serious duty of nominating candidates for academy admission. Today, I 
am honored to continue this wise tradition in my service to the 11th 
Congressional District.

The Academy Review Board is composed of six local citizens, several 
of whom are distinguished veterans, who have shown exemplary service to 
New Jersey, their communities, and to the continued excellence of 
education in our area. Members of the board come from diverse 
backgrounds and professions, but they all share a common dedication 
that the best qualified and motivated graduates attend our academies. 
And, as true for most volunteer groups, their service goes largely 
unnoticed.

I would like to recognize these men and women and thank them publicly 
for participating in this important panel. Serving as board member 
requires hard work and an objective mind. They have the responsibility 
of interviewing over 50 outstanding high school seniors every year in 
the academy review process.

The nomination process follows a general timetable. Interested high 
school seniors mail personal information directly to the Military 
Academy, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Merchant 
Marine Academy. Information includes academic achievement, college 
entry test scores, and other relevant activities. At this time, they 
also inform my office of their desire to be nominated.

The academies then assess the applicants, rank them based on the data 
supplied, and return the files to my office with their notations. In 
late November, our Academy Review Board interviews all of the 
applicants over the course of 2 days. They assess a student's 
qualifications and analyze character, desire to serve, and other 
talents that may be hidden on paper.

This year the board interviewed 38 applicants. Nominations included 
ten to the Naval Academy, eight to the Military Academy, five to the 
Merchant Marine Academy, and five to the Air Force Academy; the Coast 
Guard Academy does not use the Congressional nomination process. The 
recommendations are then forwarded to the academies by January 31, 
where admissions staff reviewed files and notified applicants and my 
office of their final decision on admittance.

As these highly motivated and talented young men and women go through 
the academy nominating process, never let us forget the sacrifice they 
are preparing to make. This holds especially true at a time when our 
nation is fighting the war against terrorism. The current conflicts in 
Iraq and Afghanistan serve as constant reminder that wars are fought by 
the young. And, while our military missions are both important and 
sometimes dangerous, it is reassuring to know that we continue to put 
America's best and brightest in command.


 Academy Nominees for 2009--11th Congressional District New Jersey















 Air Force Academy




 Nicholas A. Davis, Sparta, Sparta H.S.



 Joseph W. Geib, Oak Ridge, Jefferson H.S.



 Richard B. T. Margerison, Long Valley, West Morris Central 