---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `0edd8a1397683772918c336ca98dc178`
`Mr. HUNTER — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I would like to yield myself 4/1/2/ minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to vote against this bill. I have 
great respect for my friend, the chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee. We work on many bills together, many pieces of legislation, 
and 99 percent of the time we find common cause in supporting the men 
and women who wear the uniform of the United States.

This bill is not one of them. I think that this bill, Mr. Speaker, is 
a call to retreat by the Democratic leadership of the House, which can 
only hurt this country.

Now, Mr. Speaker, I have been here before. I have listened to my 
colleagues on the Democrat side declare that the operation that we were 
undertaking in El Salvador to provide a little shield around that 
fragile government back in the 1980s was going to be ''America's next 
Vietnam.'' Yet we persevered. We kept that shield in place. We stood up 
a democratic government. Today, the free government of El Salvador 
supplies troops who stand side by side with Americans in Iraq.

I was here when Ronald Reagan stood up against the Soviet Union when 
they were putting SS-20 missiles around our allies, Germany and France, 
in Europe. Many people on the other side of the aisle said he was going 
in the wrong direction. He was going to start World War III. We were 
going to have a nuclear war because of the fact that the President was 
standing up to the Soviet Union. Yes, he did that, moving Pershing II 
and ground-launched cruise missiles to offset the Soviet missiles. At 
one point, they picked up the telephone and said, Can we talk? 
Ultimately we brought down the Berlin Wall. We freed, with American 
perseverance, hundreds of millions of people.

Now, we all agree that if Iraq works, it is to the benefit of the 
United States. When I say that ''if Iraq works,'' I mean if we have a 
nation which has a modicum of freedom for its people, a nation which 
will not be a state sponsor of terrorism, a nation which will be a 
friend to the United States, then we win. That is in our interest. That 
is what we are trying to build in Iraq.

We all agree that it is rough and tough and difficult. Mr. Speaker, 
it is dangerous. We all know that. That is why I had the last three 
speakers being fathers of Americans who have served in Iraq in the 
Marine Corps and in the United States Army. So we know it is difficult.

But, you know, every time I hear good news coming out, every time I 
hear that, I saw the message from one of our senior Marine commanders 
who said, We are crushing al Qaeda in Anbar province, then I pick up a 
statement by one of the Democrat leaders saying, We have lost. We have 
lost the war. I put this piece of legislation in that same category.

Twenty-seven days, less than 4 weeks after we put the surge in full 
force, we are already being called to leave. Now, we were just 
criticized, the President was criticized, for saying, This is the 
starting line. Well, I think we should criticize the Democrats for 
saying, This is the finish line. I have heard so many Democrat leaders 
say, We are going to stop the war. That has been said over and over.

Mr. Speaker, there is no Democrat leader here or anywhere who can 
stop the war. The only thing we can do is leave this battlefield. We 
can't stop this war any more than the people of Great Britain stopped 
the war when they just had this incident last week in Scotland. We 
can't stop this war any more than the victims in the Kobar Towers 
stopped the war. We can't stop this war any more than the marines in


the Beirut barrack had the power to stop the war. We can't stop this 
war any more than the sailors of the USS Cole had any ability to stop 
the war. This war has been forced on us. The only way we should end it, 
the only way we can end it, is to win.

Now we have the surge going on. It has been going on for 27 days. The 
leader in whom we all vest great confidence, General Petraeus, is to 
speak to us about the policies, about the tactics, about the 
strategies, and he will suggest adjustments on September 15. The idea 
that only 4 weeks after we have fully funded and we have fully deployed 
this surge we are somehow going to sound the retreat is a real 
disservice to this mission.

Mr. Speaker, what I would ask of all of our Members, Democrat and 
Republican, is vote against this call to retreat. If we stop fighting 
the terrorists, we will start losing this war against the terrorists.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.