# RECOGNIZING 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF UNITED STATES-JAPAN TREATY OF MUTUAL  COOPERATION AND SECURITY
## `0ee2137c3c0e7aa7396fe206d3e374af`
`Ms. WATSON — 23 June 2010`

---


Ms. WATSON. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
resolution, and I yield myself such time as I may consume.

This resolution commemorates the 50th anniversary of the United 
States-Japan Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security, which entered 
into force on June 23, 1960. This treaty formed the basis for the 
presence of U.S. Armed Forces in Japan, which has contributed to 
Japan's security and prosperity and to regional peace and stability.

Our alliance with Japan has advanced American interests by ensuring a 
stable balance of power in the Asia-


Pacific region, providing a platform for managing tensions on the 
Korean peninsula and serving as a means to enlist Japan's cooperation 
on regional and global security issues.

For example, Japan is the second largest international contributor to 
Afghanistan, pledging $5 million in economic assistance over the next 5 
years.



Japan sent rapid humanitarian aid to Haiti, and the Japanese Self-
Defense Force provided medical relief following the earthquake there 
this past January.

Japan to this day remains a steadfast ally with the United States in 
combating the nuclear threat from North Korea and responding to the 
North's provocative behavior.

The success of our alliance with Japan would not have been possible 
without Japan's broad support and understanding, and I would like to 
thank the Government of Japan and the Japanese people, and especially 
the people of Okinawa where I taught for 2 years, for their continued 
hosting of American Armed Forces in Japan. I taught the children of 
these Armed Forces.

While Japan is an important partner and friend and we agree on many 
important issues, there is one important matter on which we disagree: 
the issue of American children taken to Japan by one parent against the 
wishes of the other parent. This issue is a very real and serious 
concern for those left-behind parents and for those of us representing 
them here in Congress. It is imperative that our two governments create 
the best possible situation for these tragic cases to be resolved, not 
only for the sake of those families but to ensure that U.S.-Japan 
relations continue on a positive trajectory.

As we commemorate this week the 50th anniversary of our alliance with 
Japan, we know that the importance of this alliance remains as vital as 
ever, even if the treaty's original Cold War backdrop has long faded 
from view. We only have to look at North Korea's belligerent actions 
over the past few years to be reminded of the relevance of the U.S.-
Japan security treaty. Now is the right time to pursue an ambitious, 
forward-looking agenda to ensure that the fundamentals of the alliance 
remain in place and to expand our security cooperation to meet the many 
challenges of the 21st century.

I would like to thank my friend, the distinguished gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen), the ranking member of the House Committee 
on Foreign Affairs, for introducing this resolution, and I urge all of 
my colleagues to support this legislation.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.