# CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS
## `0ef1ef2df0e11c78299db5947d3d6bd9`
`Mrs. CHRISTENSEN — 22 February 2010`

---


Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Thank you, Congresswoman Fudge, and thank you once 
again for holding this Special Order. I know how difficult it is to do 
this week after week, and we really appreciate all of your efforts.

Madam Speaker, I join my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus 
this evening in our tribute to Black History Month. Since we are 
largely a black community, I want to use this time to speak about my 
home district, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the United States Virgin 
Islands.

I feel the need to do this because the mainstream media and some of 
our colleagues have been treating my district as though we were not a 
part of this country. Recently, some of our Republican colleagues in 
this body have even taken to using funding to my district as the poster 
child for spending that Americans simply cannot afford. Because we have 
been blessed with sunshine and beaches, and because most Americans from 
the States have only the images of people at play to reference our 
territory, we are often targeted as not deserving of stimulus funding, 
as being too expensive to be funded in health care, as not requiring 
homeland security, even though it is for the protection of the entire 
United States as well as for us, as not deserving of our funding to 
preserve our precious natural areas, as too beautiful for Federal 
officials to come to for hearings and site visits that are done in 
other districts. There are other unfair characterizations that overlook 
the fact that we are a community with health, education, economic 
development, and other needs just like other districts represented in 
this body.


We are Americans, and our people have fought and died in every 
conflict from the American Revolution through the world wars and right 
through to the present conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq, and other points 
around the world. Today, 200 of my constituents are in Kosovo and 
Guantanamo, and others are about to be called up to other parts of the 
world. They serve in our National Guard. We are proud of them in their 
service. Like our sister territories, we have given more lives per 
capita in our wars and conflicts than most other States.

Well, Madam Speaker and colleagues, we are tired of being spoken of 
as though we are not part of the American family, and I wanted to use 
this opportunity to point out the familial bonds which stretch all the 
way to the founding of this Nation.

The Virgin Islands became a part of the American family in 1917 as 
this country needed a strategic presence in the Caribbean to help 
defend the Panama Canal during World War I. There was talk long before 
in the administration of President Abraham Lincoln of purchasing our 
island territories, but those talks stalled, and we were not to be 
transferred to U.S. authority until the Woodrow Wilson administration. 
During that time, our forefathers were not consulted about the sale and 
had no opportunity to say yea or nay. Yet we accepted our new Nation, 
as difficult and denigrating as those first years were for us, 
determined to make the best of it for us and for the United States of 
America. Let's go even further back than that.

During the Revolutionary War, St. Croix served as a transshipment 
point for the gunpowder for the Revolutionary Army, not to mention that 
our rum, which some tend to malign today, helped warm the soldiers 
during those cold nights on the battlefield. We were major fueling and 
ship repair stops for ships of the new American Nation and for others 
crossing the Atlantic.

One of our sons of the Marco Family, who served in the Revolutionary 
War, created the very first version of the flag for the 13 colonies. 
According to some accounts, the first salute to the stars and stripes 
occurred in the St. Croix harbor in 1776.

So we are not new to the support of and loyalty to this country, and 
we have and continue to serve and honor it in any way we can. The 
Virgin Islands proudly count as one of our own one of the great 
Founding Fathers of this Nation, Alexander Hamilton. He, of course, is 
credited, among other important contributions, with creating the 
Nation's financial system, and he served as the first Secretary of the 
Treasury.



He came to St. Croix as a boy of about 9 years old, and it was his 
education and training there in the shipping industry that covered the 
American and Caribbean ports which laid the foundation for the path he, 
and, indeed, our country, was to follow.

Many other early leaders of this country had ties to the Virgin 
Islands. There are many more, too numerous to name them all. But as we 
celebrate Black History Month, we can point to several other important 
persons who have helped to shape the United States that we know today. 
And note that I'm focusing on those who made their biggest 
contributions to our Nation. There are countless more also worthy of 
recognition who have guided and continue to guide us in the United 
States Virgin Islands.

The first person I want to mention is William Alexander Leidesdorff, 
a native of St. Croix, credited with being the first black millionaire. 
He helped to build the City on the Bay. He was a member of San 
Francisco's first town council, helped create its first school, opened 
its first hotel, and was the city's first treasurer.

J. Raymond Jones of New York, who was known as the Silver Fox of 
Tammany Hall in New York City, hailed from St. Thomas. Also born in St. 
Thomas, Terrence Todman served this country as ambassador for many 
distinguished years in Argentina, Denmark, and other countries.

One of the intriguing writers of the Harlem Renaissance, Nella Larsen 
Imes, also hailed from our shores. Arthur Schomburg, for whom the 
Center for Research in Harlem is named, is from a St. Croix family. In 
the U.S. labor movement, St. Thomas's Ashley Totten was a lieutenant of 
A. Phillip Randolph in the founding of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car 
Porters.

Frank Rudolph Crosswaith, another labor luminary, created the Trade 
Union Committee for Organizing Negro Workers, the Negro Labor 
Committee, and became a founding member of the anti-Communist Union for 
Democratic Action.

Famous American musicians who hailed from the U.S. Virgin Islands 
include Benny Benjamin, who wrote ''I Want to Set the World on Fire,'' 
and Jon Lucien, a jazz favorite for many generations. There are many, 
many others.

In sports, we have Tim Duncan of the San Antonio Spurs and Raja Bell 
of the


Phoenix Suns. They follow in the footsteps of many other mainstays from 
the golden era of American baseball like Horace Clarke, Valmy Thomas, 
Joe Christopher, and all the others who came from the Virgin Islands. 
And we have many young stars who are making their name in track and 
field and other areas.

Our boxing legends include Emile Griffith, Livingston Bramble, and 
Julian Jackson. There are many more, as I said, in sports that I can't 
name due to the time limitation.

But there are also the hundreds of thousands of Virgin Islanders who 
over the 93 years that we have been a part of the American family have 
loved it and served it in so many other ways, just like our fellow 
citizens of the United States who are represented by my other 
colleagues. And all that we ask is that we, our contributions, our 
service, and our citizenship be recognized and given the appropriate 
respect.

Madam Speaker, the Virgin Islands has a rich, diverse, long, loyal, 
and productive history as a part of the American family. Like many of 
our sister districts, we are also susceptible to all the challenges of 
our great country, such as the devastating recession, threats to our 
homeland, escalating crime, and the need for improvements in education 
and health care. Spending on the Virgin Islands and the other 
territories is not frivolous spending. And, by the way, much of those 
dollars that come to us are spent not only to improve the lives and 
services for our residents but for the millions of people from all over 
the United States who visit our shores every year.

It has been hard for me as a representative of these proud Americans 
in the U.S. Virgin Islands to have to listen to the negative rhetoric 
coming from the other side of the aisle as I have sought to represent, 
like they do, my district. It has been painful to have to work so hard 
to get fair treatment in Medicaid, other health programs, and to get 
that fair treatment in health care reform, as well as to provide SSI 
for our individuals who have special needs.

It has been difficult to have disparaging remarks made about our 
reported unemployment at 8.5 percent when the tools available in other 
States are not available to enable us to have an accurate count. When 
undertaken by our university some years ago when our unemployment was 
reportedly around 7 percent, a more thorough assessment determined that 
it was as high as 13 percent in St. Croix and a little less in St. 
Thomas, and that was during better times.

I consider it to be a disservice that there might be Republican 
objections to holding a hearing in the Virgin Islands on the 
Constitution that our elected delegates have drafted for this Congress' 
consideration in the place where it will govern if passed and adopted. 
It's a milestone for any territory. And why? Because it's a beautiful 
place? I was to go to the Grand Canyon for a site visit today. It's a 
very beautiful place, and I don't think anyone objected to that.


Madam Speaker and my colleagues, thank you for the time to speak 
about this important part of our country's black history, our country's 
history, and the opportunity to remind those who don't seem to know 
that we are proudly American and that we ask nothing more than to be 
treated as such.