---
---

# None
## `0ef482b4877ce725192d7b146c9bce6a`
`Mr. PITTS — 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. PITTS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember and honor Private 
First Class Brandon M. Styer of Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

On October 15 of this year, Brandon lost his life from injuries 
sustained when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle in Kandahar province, Afghanistan.

Brandon exhibited a willingness and enthusiasm to serve and defend 
his country by joining the United States Army. He understood what it 
means to live a life with purpose. He served a cause greater than 
himself. He served the cause of liberty. He gave his life so that we 
might be safer.

Brandon told his father that he loved the camaraderie and excitement 
of serving in the Army. He enlisted just last year, his senior year at 
Conestoga Valley High School. Upon graduation, Brandon completed his 
basic training at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri, and Fort Benning, 
Georgia. He then was transferred to Fort Carson, Colorado, for 
additional training.

In March of 2009, Brandon deployed to Iraq for 7 weeks before being 
transferred to Afghanistan. Assigned to the 569th Mobility Augmentation 
Company, Fourth Engineer Battalion as a combat engineer, Brandon worked 
to dismantle, remove, and destroy improvised explosive devices. The 
569th MAC Company has a storied history of participating in campaigns 
in World War II and Vietnam and, more recently, Operation Iraqi Freedom 
and Operation Enduring Freedom. It is entirely fitting that Brandon 
joined their ranks.

As an exceptional young man, Brandon was determined to serve our 
country and keep his fellow soldiers safe from roadside bombs. It is 
tragic that one of these bombs claimed his life.

Brandon was also a noble and selfless friend and family man, a 
compassionate son, brother, and uncle. He leaves behind a family proud 
of all that he accomplished throughout his distinguished life and 
career in the military. His valor and service cost him his life, but 
his sacrifice will live on forever among the many dedicated heroes this 
Nation has sent abroad to defend freedom.

Brandon earned a number of awards throughout his brief career in the 
Army, which demonstrates his professionalism and his outstanding 
ability as a soldier. His awards include the National Defense Service 
Medal, the Afghanistan Campaign Medal with Bronze Service Star, the 
Iraq Campaign Medal with Bronze Service Star, the Global War on 
Terrorism Service Medal, the Army Service Ribbon, the Overseas Service 
Ribbon and Bar, and the Weapons Qualification Badge.

Posthumously, Brandon received the Bronze Star Medal, the Purple 
Heart Medal, the Army Good Conduct Medal, the NATO Medal, and the 
Combat Action Badge.

May God grant to Brandon's family the peace that surpasses all 
understanding. Our prayers and most heartfelt gratitude go out to them, 
and I offer them my deepest condolences.

I am humbled by the dedicated service and sacrifice of their loved 
one.

Brandon joins the revered ranks of the many thousands of men and 
women throughout American history who have gone before him in battle to 
secure the freedom of the people of United States of America and people 
around the world.

He is an inspiration to us all.
