---
---

# None
## `0ef69b405e4c3447188a8b5d395d5c57`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, in recent years, our country has seen a 
major shift in the way that our National Guard has been used. 
Traditionally, our Guard units have supplemented our active duty troops 
during a major war or conflict. But as America faces ever-increasing 
military challenges, we see these citizen soldiers now replacing active 
duty troops in operations around the world. Since September 11, many 
Guard members have been called to active duty for multiple tours, and 
this is likely to continue in the foreseeable future.

The National Guard has played a critical role in Operation Iraqi 
Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. Currently, almost 15,000 
guardsmen and women are deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan and 242,271 
have been deployed since the beginning of Operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. These tours have stretched our National Guard to the 
limit, and have severely depleted our Guard's equipment. In reality, 
much of the equipment that is sent into theater never returns with the 
Guard units when their tour of duty is complete. This exacerbates the 
issue of equipment reset.

While we consider the strain that our current operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan are placing on our National Guard, we must also remember 
that the Guard has another important responsibility: providing security 
at home. In the past few years, we have seen the valuable role that the 
Army and Air National Guard play in providing support during domestic 
emergencies. I know that in my State of New Jersey, the National Guard 
came to the rescue during the 9/11 terrorist attacks, and was also 
instrumental in helping during the aftermath of the flooding that 
wracked New Jersey last year. The guardsmen and women also provided 
critical support in response to the hurricanes that severely damaged 
the gulf coast in 2005. Unfortunately, our current military operations 
abroad have left our National Guard without much of the equipment it 
needs to respond to some of the domestic emergencies I have just 
mentioned.

In February of this year, the National Guard Bureau released a report 
entitled ''National Guard Equipment Requirements,'' which detailed the 
''Essential 10'' equipment needs to support domestic missions. The 
shortfalls in equipment total $4 billion, and cover areas including 
logistics, security, transportation, communications, medical, 
engineering, aviation, maintenance, civil support teams and force 
protection, and join force headquarters and command and control. 
Without the proper equipment, the National Guard will not be able to 
respond as quickly and effectively in missions here at home.

We saw an example of this in May when tornadoes ripped through 
Kansas. Although the Kansas National Guard was able to respond to the 
disaster, Governor Sebelius spoke out about the challenges her State 
faces due to the severe equipment shortages. National Guard units 
throughout the country are facing such equipment shortfalls, and with 
tornadoes, floods, hurricanes, and forest fires affecting our nation 
annually, it is imperative that the National Guard have the equipment 
it needs to respond accordingly in the face of these emergencies.

That is why I introduced the recently passed amendment that expresses 
the sense of Congress that the Army and Air National Guard should have 
sufficient equipment available to achieve their missions inside the 
United States and to protect the homeland.

This Congress always talks about supporting our troops--well we need 
to remember that supporting our troops means supporting the National 
Guard and providing them with the equipment they need not only for 
missions abroad but here at home. In the coming months, I will be 
working with my colleagues to see that this Congress provides the 
necessary funding to address these severe equipment shortages. In the 
meantime, I hope that the entire Senate will support this amendment.