# None
## `0f18670add0f022c07655b2312cb7571`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 24 June 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. I yield myself such time as I may need in the time 
allotted to the Senator from Vermont.

Today, the Senate is turning to a package of three nominations for 
lifetime appointments to the Federal bench in Michigan, including 
President Bush's nominations of Judge Helene White and Raymond 
Kethledge to fill the final two vacancies of the Sixth Circuit Court of 
Appeals.

These nominations are the result of the hard work of Senators Levin 
and Stabenow, who consulted with President Bush to end a decade-long 
impasse in filling vacancies on the Sixth Circuit. During that time, 
Senate Republicans had blocked President Clinton's nominees to that 
circuit, leaving open four vacancies.

I am worried that some on the other side seem intent on preventing us 
from making this progress. Judge White's nomination should be a 
consensus nomination. Judge White was nominated by a Democratic 
President and by a Republican President. When the most partisan 
President in modern history, one responsible for sending us so many 
divisive nominations, renominates a Clinton judicial nominee, it 
actually should send a signal.

Nevertheless, her nomination drew criticism from the Republican 
leader and opposition from Republicans on our committee. After I 
expedited a hearing on the Michigan nominees, figuring that 10 years of 
waiting might have been enough, Republicans objected that we were 
moving too fast. They peppered her with more questions than any nominee 
of President Bush that I can recall. At our committee markup, 
Republicans made the wildly dumbfounding claims that she is not 
experienced. But after more than 25 years as a Michigan State court 
judge, including 15 as a State appellate court judge, she is a more 
experienced judicial nominee than many of those they previously 
supported.

It is interesting that Republicans did not raise this concern when 
they were supporting far less experienced nominees such as Jennifer 
Elrod and Catharina Haynes of Texas to fill circuit court vacancies. In 
fact, Judge White has been on the appellate bench longer than Mr. 
Kethledge, the other Sixth Circuit nominee, has been out of law school.

It is ironic that last week several Republican Senators held a press 
conference with representatives from right wing groups organized by a 
group calling itself Concerned Women for America. It is Republican 
opposition to a woman nominee that has been holding up the progress of 
filling judicial vacancies. Now this woman nominee they seemed 
concerned about is described on President Bush's White House Web site 
as ''an experienced and highly qualified judge, who is known for her 
intellect, work ethic, and demeanor.'' She has been given the highest 
rating for the position by the ABA. Yet her extensive experience, which 
is far more than the experience of many supported by my friends on the 
other side of the aisle, does not seem to meet the sudden last-minute 
standards set by Republican members of the committee.

As a state judge, she has not been called upon to consider and apply 
certain Federal statutes. That would be the same with thousands of 
state judges all over the country. It is understandable. But if you 
characterize her because of that as unqualified, that would turn back 
the clock to before the confirmation of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, 
who had been a State legislator and a State judge. Justice O'Connor was 
not experienced in deciding Federal law issues before confirmation as 
the first woman on the U.S. Supreme Court. I think we should all agree 
she nonetheless served the Nation well in that capacity. And I agreed 
with her chief sponsor in this body, my friend and former colleague, 
Barry Goldwater of Arizona, and I was proud to join with him in voting 
for Sandra Day O'Connor.

It is also ironic that week after week, as the Senate continues to 
make progress in filling judicial vacancies, we hear a steady stream of 
grumbling from Republicans whose main priorities now seem to be to 
prevent the Senate and the Judiciary Committee from addressing the 
priorities of ordinary Americans. You would almost think that gasoline 
has not skyrocketed as the dollar has collapsed in value worldwide 
because of the huge debt caused by the Iraq war. They do not seem to 
realize that some of the typical Americans in my State of Vermont and, 
I suspect, the Presiding Officer's State of New Jersey, are finding it 
very hard to buy gas to go to work or pick up their children after 
school or do their grocery shopping or visit an ailing parent. You 
would not think these were important matters when you hear of the 
priorities on the other side. You would not be aware there is a huge 
crisis in the housing industry, where people are losing houses all over 
this country, hard-working Americans who finally had the American dream 
of owning their own home and are now losing it. You would think that 
was not happening by what we hear from the other side.

Republicans are now regularly objecting to hearings before the 
Judiciary Committee. They seem disappointed when we conclude hearings 
within the first 2 hours of the Senate's day and they cannot disrupt 
them.

They objected to Senator Feinstein completing an important hearing on 
interrogation techniques used against detainees. It is almost as if, if 
we can block that hearing from happening, these terrible things never 
would have happened because Republicans foreclosed the ability of 
Americans to hear what went on in those hearings.

They objected to a hearing highlighting the impact of Supreme Court 
decisions on the daily lives of all Americans even though that meant 
cutting short the testimony of two brave women victimized by such a 
decision, Pennsylvanians who came to Washington to tell how badly they 
had been hurt by these decisions. The Republicans effectively silenced 
them to make sure they could not speak and could not testify because 
they said we should not have these Judiciary Committee meetings. So 
these two Pennsylvanians had to go back home unable to finish telling 
their story.

And a few days ago, the Republican minority objected to a hearing 
that had been requested by Judiciary Committee Republicans to examine 
the need for additional Federal judgeships throughout the country. This 
now all too familiar pattern is childish and serves no good purpose.

We will see later this week whether they allow Senator Biden to 
proceed to chair a hearing before the Subcommittee on Crime and Drugs 
concerning fugitives from justice.

Regrettably, these obstructionist tactics from the other side of the 
aisle are likely to continue without regard to the real priorities of 
the struggling Americans I spoke about, the voters who have elected 
every Senator to serve. Their priorities are being pushed aside.

We read last week another story about the dissatisfaction of right 
wing


activists and their pressuring of the Republican leadership in the 
Senate. We witnessed their response this month as they forced a reading 
of a substitute amendment to critical climate change legislation. They 
did this for hours and hours, thereby shutting down the work of the 
Senate.

Two weeks ago, we saw a story in Roll Call that included the headline 
''Divided GOP Settles on a Fight Over Judges.'' That headline reminded 
me of the famous Wolfowitz quote about why the Bush administration 
settled on supposed weapons of mass destruction as the justification 
for attacking Iraq even though they knew there were no weapons of mass 
destruction--it was the rationale they could agree on. They all knew 
they wanted to attack Iraq, they knew they did not have the facts to 
attack Iraq, so they found a cover story they could use. And thousands 
of lives and $1 trillion later they say: Oops, sorry, no weapons of 
mass destruction, but, boy, we all agreed on the rationale.

The report in Roll Call included discussion by Republican Senators of 
the politics that fuels their efforts to appeal to ''conservative 
activists'' and ''ignite base voters'' and find an issue that ''serves 
as a rare unifier for Senate Republicans'' and their Presidential 
nominee. That piece mirrored an earlier article in the Washington 
Times, reporting how this is all part of an effort to bolster Senator 
McCain's standing among conservatives.

This political song-and-dance would not be so bad if it were not 
impacting the integrity and the independence of the Federal judiciary, 
something that in the past both Republicans and Democrats tried to 
protect.

I had suspected that much of this complaining was because Republican 
partisans were looking for an issue to energize their political base 
during an election year. The reports from the media outlets have 
confirmed my suspicions. I wonder if they realize that liberals, 
conservatives, Republicans, and Democrats are suffering from having to 
pay these outrageous gas prices. Wouldn't it be better if they worked 
on that?


Americans, Republicans and Democrats, in all parts of this country, 
are seeing their houses disappear and the value they had hoped for 
their retirement gone. Wouldn't addressing that be something better on 
which to unite America?

On this date in the 1996 session, another Presidential election year 
but one in which a Republican Senate majority was considering judicial 
nominees of a Democratic President, do you know how many judicial 
nominees had been confirmed? The answer is easy: None, not a single 
one. That was a session that ended without a single circuit court judge 
being confirmed.

By contrast, if Republicans will allow the confirmation of Judge 
White to the Sixth Circuit, we will have today completed the 
confirmations for 12 judges, including 4 circuit court judges, so far 
this Presidential election year, compared to 1996, when none had been 
confirmed at this point.

In addition to today's three nominees, two more judicial nominees 
already reported by the Senate Judiciary Committee are pending on the 
Senate's executive calendar. I have placed four more on the Judiciary 
Committee business agenda for later this week.

It is perhaps the ultimate irony that here, as the Democratic 
leadership of the Senate takes the extraordinary step of proceeding to 
two more of President Bush's circuit court nominees in June of a 
Presidential election year, I am being criticized by Republicans for, 
of all things, moving too quickly. I had hoped, in light of the 
discussion between the majority leader and the Republican leader 
earlier this spring, to have concluded Senate action on this package of 
Michigan nominees more quickly. I tried to have these votes in May 
before the Memorial Day recess, but we were thwarted in that effort by 
Republican concerns about expediting consideration of these Bush 
nominees. So what we might have done in May, we are now having to do in 
June.

It reminds me a little bit of the Republican antics and shenanigans 
earlier this year that cost us progress in February. Rather than making 
progress, Republicans refused to make a quorum in the Judiciary 
Committee that entire month so no judicial nominees would come out in 
March, and then in March, they could give speeches.

So let there be no mistake. If Judge White is confirmed, we will have 
broken a 10-year impasse on the Sixth Circuit. By contrast, the 
Republican Senate majority during the Clinton years refused to consider 
President Clinton's Sixth Circuit nominees for 3 years and left four 
vacancies on that court.

When, as chairman, I scheduled a hearing and vote for Judge Julia 
Smith Gibbons of Tennessee and Judge John Marshall Rogers of Kentucky, 
we were able to confirm the first new judges to the Sixth Circuit in 5 
years. The others had been pocket-filibustered by Republicans. I said 
we would not do the same thing to them, and we did not. We moved 
quickly on President Bush's nominees to that circuit. The confirmations 
of Judge White and Mr. Kethledge of Michigan would complete the process 
by filling the two remaining vacancies on the Sixth Circuit.

Judge White was first nominated by President Clinton to a vacancy on 
the Sixth Circuit more than 11 years ago, but the Republican-led Senate 
refused to act on her nomination. She waited in vain for 1,454 days for 
a hearing before President Bush withdrew her nomination in March 2001. 
Hers was 1 of more than 60 qualified judicial nominees pocket-
filibustered by Republicans. This year, President Bush reconsidered and 
renominated her, and I applaud President Bush for doing so. He deserves 
credit for trying to close the door on a sorry chapter. I commend the 
President for doing it and for what he has said on his White House Web 
site about Judge White's nomination. I hope the Senate will follow the 
example of President Bush and confirm Judge White to one of the last 
two vacancies on the Sixth Circuit.

The Michigan vacancies on the Sixth Circuit have proven a great 
challenge. I commend the senior Senator from Michigan, chairman of the 
Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Levin, and his outstanding 
colleague, Senator Stabenow, for working to end years of impasse. I had 
urged the President to work with the Michigan Senators. After 7 years, 
he now has.

We have come a long way since I became chairman in 2001 when the 
Sixth Circuit was in turmoil because Republicans had blocked 
nominations for many years. Today we complete that progress by 
confirming Judge White and Raymond Kethledge.

I yield the floor and retain the remainder of my time. How much time 
remains to the Senator from Vermont?