# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `0f1b0a9d529d1dcbe4855f284a463ec2`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, it's a privilege to join with Senator 
Hatch in introducing legislation to reauthorize the Traumatic Brain 
Injury Act. The reauthorization will expand assistance to the millions 
of adults and children in the nation who are facing serious problems 
because of brain injuries. Its provisions also have a major role in 
meeting the critical needs facing many of our wounded soldiers 
returning home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The numbers tell the story. As of this month, almost 25,000 service 
members have been wounded in Iraq, and approximately two-thirds of the 
injuries include brain injuries. Here at home, an extremely high number 
of children from birth to age 14 experience traumatic brain injuries--
approximately 475,000 a year--and some of the most frequent injuries 
are among children under the age of five.

Soldiers and children--I cannot think of two more deserving groups of 
people in our nation.

Reauthorization of the Act is essential to continue the availability 
of federal funds for traumatic brain injury programs. The bill 
reauthorizes grants that assist States, Territories, and the District 
of Columbia in establishing and expanding coordinated systems of 
community-based services and supports for children and adults with such 
injuries. It also extends the ability to apply for these grants to 
American Indian Consortia.

When Congress approved the Traumatic Brain Injury Act as part of the 
Children's Health Act of 2000, we had the foresight to establish a 
specific provision called the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals 
with Traumatic Brain Injury Program. This program has proved to be 
essential because individuals with traumatic brain injuries have an 
array of needs, including assistance in returning to work, finding a 
place to live, obtaining supports and services such as attendant care 
and assistive technology, and obtaining appropriate mental health, 
substance abuse, and rehabilitation services.

Often these individuals--especially our returning veterans--must 
remain in extremely expensive institutions far longer than necessary, 
because the community-based supports and services they need are not 
available. Such services can lead both to reduced government 
expenditures and to increased productivity, independence and community 
integration, but the advocates must possess special skills, and their 
work is often time-intensive.

In addition, our legislation provides funds for CDC programs that 
provide extremely important data gathering and information on injury 
prevention. In a time when both the Administration and Congress are 
searching for programs that provide the right kind of ''bang for the 
federal buck,'' an Institute of Medicine report last March showed that 
the TBI programs work. The programs in the Act were funded for a total 
of only $12 million dollars last year, and yet their benefit is 
obvious. Clearly these programs should be reauthorized and the funding 
should be increased. Although the reauthorization is for ''such sums as 
may be necessary,'' we must do all we can to expand the appropriations 
in the years ahead in order to meet the urgent need for this 
assistance.

The IOM report called the current TBI programs an ''overall 
success,'' stating that ''there is considerable value in providing . . 
. funding,'' and ''it is worrisome that the modestly budgeted HRSA TBI 
Program continues to be vulnerable to budget cuts.'' As the study 
suggests, this program must be continued and allowed to grow, so that 
each state has the resources necessary to maintain vital services and 
advocacy for the estimated 5.3 million people currently living with 
disabilities resulting from brain injury. When our wounded soldiers 
return to their communities, the services and supports they need must 
be available.

The nation owes these deserving people--especially our service 
members and our children--the services and advocacy available under 
these critical programs. I urge my colleagues to act quickly on this 
important reauthorization and enact this bipartisan bill as soon as 
possible.