---
---

# INTRODUCING A RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING THE CRUCIAL ROLE OF ASSISTANCE  DOGS IN HELPING WOUNDED VETERANS LIVE MORE INDEPENDENT LIVES, AND  SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF CREATING A TOWER OF HOPE DAY
## `0f1c6e43b3dc85b66192a052c130825f`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 26 March 2009`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce a 
resolution that acknowledges the admirable role of assistance dogs in 
helping our wounded veterans live more independent lives, expresses 
gratitude to the Tower of Hope, and supports the goals and ideals of 
creating a Tower of Hope Day.

We currently have over 170,000 troops deployed in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Thousands of those brave service men and women have been 
seriously wounded in combat. Many of these courageous soldiers suffer 
from brain injuries, single and double amputations, and other traumatic 
wounds. As a result, they are required to spend weeks, months, and 
years in hospitals recovering from their injuries.

Madam Speaker, we must not forget that these brave men and women are 
still in genuine need of assistance to continue their recovery. 
Assistance dogs will help to empower veterans in need of assistance to 
live a more comfortable and independent life.

The Tower of Hope is dedicated to providing wounded soldiers with 
service dogs. The Tower of Hope was created following the September 
11th terrorist attacks in an effort to bring about hope and happiness 
to our wounded veterans. Among other things, these dogs assist wounded 
veterans with the necessary everyday tasks such as using the stairs, 
retrieving items, pulling wheelchairs, and even turning lights on and 
off. In addition


to these essential life tasks, service animals offer priceless 
companionship and unconditional love.

Madam Speaker, we are at a point in our history where the demand for 
our troops is high and the nature of their work puts them in grave 
danger on a daily basis. We must not overlook the great sacrifices that 
our soldiers make each and every day in the name of freedom. It is 
unacceptable that fewer than 75 veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan have 
service dogs because they cannot afford them or are unaware of their 
benefits. Currently, such brave men and women have to wait up to two 
years to receive an assistance animal. Our soldiers deserve nothing 
less than our steadfast support and access to services that improve 
their quality of life.

The Tower of Hope has been dedicated to substantially improving the 
lives of veterans. Through tireless and devoted work, the Tower of Hope 
has raised funds for training assistance dogs and labored to educate 
people about the benefits of such animals. Most of all, the Tower of 
Hope has been able to award grants to veterans, allowing them to enjoy 
these dogs' services at no cost. This resolution lauds the outstanding 
work of the Tower of Hope and expresses gratitude to all the volunteers 
and donors who have made these programs possible through their 
generosity. Additionally, this resolution supports the goals and ideals 
of creating a Tower of Hope Day.

Madam Speaker, throughout the years, this great nation has been 
shaped by our willingness to help our neighbors in their greatest time 
of need. This giving spirit that defines our country is embodied in the 
Tower of Hope. We owe it to our veterans and the history of this 
country to support the development of a program that inspires hope and 
strengthens our tradition of compassion to those who need it most.

I urge my colleagues to extend a helping hand to America's veterans 
by supporting this resolution.
