# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `0f202d006f363ecf3f86ecc695cbacac`
`Mrs. CAPITO â€” 15 June 2007`

---


Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to offer a bipartisan 
amendment highlighting the importance and need for an Office of Rural 
Health within the Department of Veterans Affairs.

I'd like to commend the chairman and the ranking member for their 
good, solid, hard work on this bill and the tribute it pays to 
America's veterans. I would also like to thank Mr. Salazar of Colorado 
and Mr. Smith of Nebraska for their work on this bipartisan amendment.

I was pleased that language was included in the legislation that was 
signed into law by the President last year calling on the Department of 
Veterans Affairs to create an Office of Rural Health within the Office 
of the Under Secretary for Health. However, the Department has yet to 
make any progress towards establishing this very important office.

This is a simple amendment that should encourage the Department to 
make the Office of Rural Health fully operational as expeditiously as 
possible, and provide them with the resources needed to do so by 
rerouting $5 million in the Medical Services Account to help fund the 
Office of Rural Health, thus making it revenue neutral.

Rural Americans face different and unique challenges than our fellow 
citizens who reside in urban and suburban areas, and this is no 
different for our veterans and their ability to seek the services and 
the treatments that they need. For some rural veterans, a simple trip 
to the doctor can often involve hours of travel to reach the 
appropriate facility within the veterans health facilities health 
system.

It is my hope that the Office of Rural Health will shed light on many 
of these challenges, and will be a resource with many new and creative 
ideas for methods to help our rural veterans receive their much-
deserved benefits in a manner that is efficient, and allowing them to 
stay as close to home as possible.

One of the great challenges we are beginning to face is the number of 
servicemen and -women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan who have 
sustained a traumatic brain injury. The Department of Veterans Affairs 
has four large polytrauma centers, in Richmond, Tampa, Minneapolis and 
Palo Alto, California. These facilities provide first-class treatment 
for veterans suffering polytrauma, and also provide inpatient 
rehabilitation services.

Despite the services provided at these facilities, many veterans will 
eventually return to their homes in the rural areas of America, but 
they will still need care and treatment. The Office of Rural Health 
will be the basis for new ways to provide rural veterans with 
polytrauma with the care that they need.

Another development within the Department of Veterans Affairs that 
has been going on for a while are the Community-Based Outpatient 
Clinics, or CBOCs. Often serving rural areas, CBOCs are a tremendous 
asset to the delivery of care for veterans, allowing them to seek 
treatment closer to their home. Unfortunately, underserved areas still 
remain in the rural areas. Again, the Office of Rural Health will be an 
excellent resource for new ways to provide primary outpatient care.

Mr. Chairman, I urge passage of this commonsense amendment so that 
the rural veterans concerns can be appropriately addressed.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.