---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `0f21604e9bd394b13f28e46a68e3064f`
`Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. Mr. Speaker and Members of the 
House, I rise in very strong support of this bill, and I want to thank 
Chairman Obey and Chairman Murtha for all of their hard work to put 
this legislation together.

I believe it is time to bring our troops home, to come home from 
Iraq, and I believe it is time for this Congress to support this 
legislation.

As the American soldiers begin their fifth year in this war of choice 
in Iraq, we confront the tragic fact that the Bush administration's 
preparation, planning and execution of this war has not kept faith with 
the enormous sacrifices our men and women in uniform and their families 
have made.

More than 3,200 American soldiers have died in Iraq, and close to 
25,000 more have been seriously wounded. And Iraq is mired in a civil 
war, with tens of thousands of civilians killed, or even more 
internally displaced. Hundreds of billions of taxpayers dollars have 
been squandered in this war that has left our military readiness in 
jeopardy, the All-Volunteer Army is at a breaking point, and the 
world's faith in America's leadership is gravely shaken.

The American people recognize President Bush's approach in Iraq for 
what it is, a failure. That is why we sent a message to Washington this 
past November to change the course, to end this war, to get out of 
Iraq. That is what the American people said in November.

Instead, this President, in all of his arrogance and all of his 
lying, chose to choose a surge.

Well, the time is now for the Congress to do something about that 
because the American people do not support a war in Iraq, and has no 
end in sight, and continues the tragic, unnecessary loss of life. And 
given the President's unwillingness to change course, it is incumbent 
upon the Congress to act. With this bill the Democrats in Congress are 
taking a stand against the President on behalf of the soldiers in this 
country and the American people.

The bill before the House would protect our troops on the battlefield 
and at home, and require accountability from the Bush administration 
and the Iraqi Government, and set a responsible timeline for the phased 
redeployment of U.S. troops with a date certain by September 2008 at 
the latest. We must support this legislation. And again, I thank the 
authors of this legislation.

I rise in strong support of this bill and I encourage all of my 
colleagues who believe it is time for our troops to come home from Iraq 
to support it.

As American soldiers begin their fifth year of this war of choice in 
Iraq, we confront the tragic fact that the Bush Administration's 
preparation, planning, and execution of this war has not kept faith 
with the enormous sacrifices our men and women in uniform and their 
families have made.

More than 3,200 American soldiers have died in Iraq and close to 
25,000 more have been seriously injured. Iraq is mired in a civil war, 
with tens of thousands of civilians killed and even more internally 
displaced. Hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars have been 
squandered in this war that has left our military readiness in 
jeopardy, the all-volunteer Army at the breaking point, and the world's 
faith in America's world leadership gravely shaken.

The American people recognize President Bush's approach in Iraq for 
what it is--a failure. That's why they sent a message to Washington 
this past November to change course.

Americans do not support a war in Iraq that has no end in sight and 
continues the tragic and unnecessary loss of life. Given the 
President's unwillingness to change course, it is incumbent on Congress 
to act. With this bill, Democrats in Congress are taking a stand 
against the President but on behalf of our soldiers and the American 
people.

The bill before the House would protect our troops on the battlefield 
and at home, require accountability from the Bush Administration and 
the Iraqi government, and set a responsible timeline for a phased 
redeployment of U.S. troops--with a date certain, by September 2008 at 
the latest, for U.S. combat troops to be redeployed from Iraq.

Adoption of our plan is the answer to America's plea to bring this 
war to an end and turn away from the President's bottomless commitment 
to U.S. participation in the Iraqi civil war. Our plan provides a 
responsible, phased plan for requiring the Iraqis to take 
responsibility for their own future. And voting yes on this bill will 
clearly show to the American people that a majority in Congress clearly 
stand with them in their desire to bring an end to the tragic U.S. 
occupation of Iraq.

My colleagues must understand that if they oppose the war, if they 
oppose spending more money on the war, if they oppose continuing the 
tragic loss of life in Iraq, then they must support this bill.

The only alternative to this bill that could garner enough votes to 
pass would be a supplemental appropriations bill to fund the war with 
no accountability, no timetables, and no end. That is the reality.

I know that the majority of the House opposes the continuation of the 
war. There are differences over strategy, on how best to achieve our 
goal on behalf of the country, on behalf of the soldiers, and on behalf 
of their families.



Defeating this bill would prolong the war. Defeating this bill would 
enable the President to continue to his irresponsible and deadly 
failures. Defeating this bill would send a message to the American 
people that Congress is not listening to them.

The President has run out of excuses for his failures in Iraq.

The American people have correctly run out of patience waiting for 
him to change course.

And America's soldiers have done everything asked of them and 
everything that could be expected of them.

It is time for a new direction.

The bill before the House provides a new direction for America. And 
it is the only bill that can take us in that direction.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
