# ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE WHITE HOUSE
## `0f28f5e48f4e11713b2b4648a103563d`
`Mr. SESTAK — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. If I may add onto comments made by the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Klein), the lack of a strategy of engagement by this 
administration where it became focused and stuck in Iraq has hurt our 
security tremendously. We outsourced our leadership during that period 
of time to others.

North Korea went to China. We gave Iran to the European Union. And I 
can't tell you who we gave the Middle East to.

Let's step back and look at what has occurred. A conflict in the 
Middle East where our Secretary of State stopped by for a photo-op and 
continued down, in the midst of that conflict, to Southeast Asia for a 
conference.

Iran, bent now upon a nuclear weapon. And North Korea, as you 
referenced, during that period of time as they called General Powell 
back, who tried to continue the negotiations that the Clinton 
administration had left the Bush administration with an agreed 
framework not to have a nuclear reactor continue to produce fissile 
material. And a missile moratorium. They now at least have seven more 
nuclear weapons, if they care to build them.



And they've exploded one of them. And they've broken the missile 
moratorium and only belatedly have they actually gone back now and 
agreed to the same agreement that the Clinton administration had.

Iraq is such a tragedy. Iran, when General Ikenberry was leaving, our 
three-star general from Afghanistan, he was asked, does Iran work 
toward our interest there? The answer was yes. You want stability in 
Afghanistan. It doesn't want the Taliban there or al


Qaeda. So we step back and say engage, engage with consequences Iran, 
Syria, give them a date that we won't be in that state of Iraq and they 
with Iraqis and Saudis and Jordan must step up so we can be about this 
world and ensure our security elsewhere. That's what this debate is 
about.