# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `0f454950b2f315eef23be0b971c4846a`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Chair, I am offering this amendment to add 
language to section 1222 of the bill. This language will clarify that 
the prohibition on establishing permanent military bases in Iraq will 
not prevent the United States and Iraq from entering into military 
basing rights agreements for the establishment of temporary bases in 
Iraq.

After I offered a similar amendment in the fiscal year 2007 Defense 
appropriations bill in the last Congress, I wrote a letter to Chairman 
Pace, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and in that letter, I 
asked General Pace for his thoughts on the need for the U.S. to enter 
into and retain the ability to enter into military basing rights 
agreements in Iraq and with Iraq. In his response, General Pace stated 
that it is the intention of the United States military to ''work 
closely with Iraq's sovereign government to decide the terms and what 
foreign military forces and bases (if any) will remain in Iraq.''

As this statement makes clear, we must ensure that the United States 
has the ability to work with the sovereign Government of Iraq to 
determine the kind of military support that will be necessary to ensure 
the stability and security of Iraq. My amendment will reaffirm that the 
United States' ability to exercise an important diplomatic 
responsibility in dealing with a new ally in the global war on terror. 
That ally is the Government of Iraq.

Historically, basing rights agreements have been a necessary part of 
diplomatic relations with foreign governments. These agreements outline 
guidelines and conditions for operating American military bases 
worldwide. It is both common and responsible for the United States to 
enter into basing rights agreements with countries hosting American 
troops. This is being done in every country hosting U.S. troops. The 
representative Government of Iraq should be no exception. In this way, 
my amendment ensures Iraq's sovereignty will be respected.

My amendment will simply highlight the fact that the prohibition on 
the establishment of permanent bases does not prohibit the United 
States from entering into a sensible diplomatic dialogue regarding the 
establishment of temporary military installations in Iraq. So, not to 
enter into these agreements would be to neglect the United States' 
diplomatic duties, and our security duties as well, with our partners.

One of the things that has poisoned this debate has been the use of 
the term ''permanent base.'' It is no secret that this is a loaded 
term. However, the BRAC process has clearly demonstrated that there is 
no such thing as a permanent U.S. military base. As a reflection of 
this, military basing rights agreements can be negotiated for any 
length of time and can be renegotiated at any point in time.

I am not proposing the terms and conditions for these discussions or 
agreements, nor am I proposing the installation of permanent bases in 
Iraq with this amendment. I am not interfering or engaging in that, I 
am simply clarifying the intent of Congress and the hope and the policy 
that the Pentagon has advocated through General Pace's letter. I am 
simply asking that we ensure the United States be allowed to pursue our 
historic necessary avenue of responsible foreign relations.




























 Chairman of




















the Joint Chiefs of Staff,


















Washington, DC, August 16, 2006.


 Hon. Steve King,


 House of Representatives,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. King: Thank you for your letter concerning long-


 term basing in Iraq. U.S. military personnel in Iraq are part 


 of the multinational force helping the Iraqi people develop 


 and strengthen their own political, economic, and security 


 institutions. We are working with the new Iraqi government to 


 establish a future security relationship that is consistent 


 with our regional strategy and national interests. We will 


 also work closely with Iraq's sovereign government to decide 


 the terms and what foreign military forces and bases (if any) 


 will remain in Iraq.



 Currently, Multi-National Force-Iraq (MNF-I) is efficiently 


 consolidating the basing footprint in Iraq to progressively 


 reduce basing requirements to only those necessary to support 


 Coalition operations. MNF-I uses a ''conditions-based'' 


 process to synchronize basing requirements. MNF-I seeks to 


 minimize our presence in Iraq, including Coalition partners, 


 provincial reconstruction teams, transition teams, Department 


 of State activities, and other supporting units and entities. 


 This process will culminate with a transition to an 


 operational and strategic overwatch posture, leveraging and 


 maximizing support from a minimum number of strategically 


 located forward operating bases and convoy support centers.



 Foreign military presence irritates some segments of the 


 population and motivates portions to support the insurgents. 


 However, some segments of the population are thankful for our 


 presence and do not desire our withdrawal until the security 


 situation has improved. Further, our interactions with Iraqis 


 and others build understanding and trust and reduce the myths 


 our adversaries are propagating. It is a difficult balance 


 and one that must be adjusted frequently. Our discussions and 


 decisions with regard to Iraq and the War on Terrorism will 


 balance our security needs, the needs of Iraq, and of our 


 allies while remaining attuned to the cultural sensitivities 


 of the people in the region.



 Your continued support of the men and women of our Armed 


 Forces is appreciated.





 Very respectfully,



























 Peter Pace,



















 General, U.S. Marine Corps.
