---
---

# None
## `0f472c4ff501f72e6355cf2c62148281`
`Mr. TESTER — 16 September 2008`

---


Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I want to take a moment to thank Chairman 
Levin and Senator Warner for their willingness to work with me on the 
amendment that has been accepted into the managers' package. This 
amendment provides some additional comfort to family members whose 
loved one is killed while serving in the military by allowing the 
Defense Department to pay for travel to a memorial service honoring a 
servicemember killed on Active Duty.

Currently, the law allows for the services to provide transportation 
of family members to a burial service of a servicemember killed on 
Active Duty. Although the law makes this voluntary, the services, much 
to their credit, all make this travel available to the families. 
However, current law does not allow travel to memorial services. With 
many families split up over long distances, this can be particularly 
painful when a parent or sibling of one of our fallen heroes cannot 
afford to travel to a memorial service held by a unit or even other 
members of the family. Although some charity groups have been able to 
help these families attend memorial services for their fallen loved 
ones, when servicemembers die in service to their country, it is this 
country's moral obligation to help their families in every possible 
way.

This amendment would allow the Secretary of each service to allow 
family members of fallen heroes to attend one memorial service as a way 
of helping to honor those who give the ultimate sacrifice--their 
lives--to our Nation. It would be voluntary. The services do not have 
to participate, but at least they would have the option, which is 
something they currently do not have.

Earlier this year, a constituent of mine suffered the loss of his 
son. He died in a hospital in Canada after being injured in Iraq. He 
was on a transport flight from Germany to Walter Reed when his 
condition worsened and the plane diverted to Halifax. When my 
constituent's ex-wife sought to have a memorial service for their son 
in Phoenix prior to the burial at Arlington National Cemetery, the Army 
had to tell the man, whose son had given his life for our country, that 
the country could


not help him attend that memorial service.

I think we can do better. I think we should do better. This amendment 
will allow us to do better.

When a soldier or marine or airman goes to war, the whole family goes 
to war. When a servicemember gives the ultimate sacrifice and is killed 
in service to our Nation, we need to do the right thing for the family. 
That is why I have offered this amendment. Again, I thank Chairman 
Levin and Senator Warner for working together to help get this 
amendment into the managers' package.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.