---
---

# SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
## `0f6249e684baa3629e52bbb470ba29e1`
`Mr. SPECTER — 6 March 2009`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President. I have sought recognition to recognize 
the contributions of the Pennsylvania National Guard in service to 
Pennsylvania and the Nation. Pennsylvania units have taken part in 
every conflict America has faced since the Revolutionary War, and 
contributions made by the men and women of the Pennsylvania National 
Guard to our Nation's security continue to be nothing short of 
outstanding. The citizen soldiers and airmen who serve in the Guard 
have answered the call to serve their Nation both at home and abroad 
time and time again. I am honored to stand before you to recount some 
of the Pennsylvania National Guard's recent accomplishments.

With approximately 20,000 soldiers and airman in its ranks, the 
Pennsylvania National Guard is one of the largest National Guards in 
the Nation. It has the largest Army National Guard and the fourth 
largest Air National Guard. I commend the Adjutant General of 
Pennsylvania, Major General Jessica Wright, and Deputy Adjutant 
Generals, Major General Stephen Sischo and Brigadier General Joseph De 
Paul, for ably leading this force that has armories or airbases in 90 
communities throughout the Commonwealth.

Since September 11, 2001, over 17,000 Pennsylvania National Guard 
soldiers and airmen have deployed to over 30 worldwide locations, and 
the Guard is currently supporting the largest deployment of 
Pennsylvania Guardsmen since World War II.

I regret that I do not have time to list all of the Pennsylvania 
National Guard's accomplishments and accolades. I will briefly 
highlight accomplishments of individual units within the Pennsylvania 
National Guard that attest to the impressive quality of the whole.

Currently, the 56th Stryker Brigade Combat Team, an element of the 
28th Infantry Division, is deployed in Iraq. The unit, which is the 
only unit in the National Guard to field the Stryker vehicle, traces 
its lineage to 1747, when Benjamin Franklin organized the ''Associated 
Regiment of Foot'', currently 1-111th Infantry, in Philadelphia.

Pennsylvania's Army Aviation Flight Facility at Fort Indiantown Gap 
is the first and only Army National Guard facility in the Nation to 
achieve the Occupational Safety and Health Administration Voluntary 
Protection Program ''STAR Award'' for exhibiting exceptional safety 
management principles and accident-free flying hours, and effectively 
demonstrating the implementation of these principles during years-long 
intensive inspections.

The Pennsylvania Air National Guard's 171st Air Refueling Wing, based 
in Coraopolis and commanded by Brigadier General Roy E. Uptegraff III, 
flew over 5,800 flying hours with more than 1,600 sorties flown in 
2008, representing an 85 percent mission effectiveness rate.

The Pennsylvania Air National Guard's 193rd Special Operations Wing, 
based in Harrisburg and commanded of Brigadier General Eric G. Weller, 
flew over 3,000 hours and over 1,000 sorties in 2008 and is the only 
unit in the entire Armed Forces with an airborne psychological 
operations broadcasting platform.

The Pennsylvania Air National Guard's 111th Fighter Wing, based in 
Willow Grove and commanded by Colonel Paul Comtois, flew over 675 
close-air support missions and provided more than 2,000 hours of on-
station time to coalition forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The soldiers and airmen from Pennsylvania's Counterdrug Program 
supported 575 cases that resulted in the seizure of over $27 million in 
illegal narcotics, money, weapons, property and vehicles directly 
related to illegal drug sales in 2008.

The accomplishments I have enumerated are but a few of the many that 
the Pennsylvania National Guard can claim to its credit. Whether 
through deployments overseas, the deployment of 2,500 Pennsylvania Army 
and Air National Guard members to support hurricane disaster relief 
efforts along the Gulf Coast following Hurricane Katrina, or service 
within the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the men and women of the 
Pennsylvania National Guard have repeatedly answered the call to duty. 
Their performance has been in keeping with the finest traditions of the 
military and has reflected great credit upon themselves, the 
Pennsylvania National Guard, and the United States Military.

I will continue to do all that I can in the United States Senate to 
ensure that the Pennsylvania National Guard has the necessary 
equipment, training and facilities to accomplish the missions it is 
called on to perform both for the Commonwealth and the Nation.
