---
---

# ECONOMIC OBSERVATIONS BY THE 43 MEMBER STRONG, FISCALLY CONSERVATIVE  DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `0f6b833f896625002aa8d96225b453c2`
`Mr. ROSS — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman, Mr. Salazar, a member of the 
fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition for joining us this evening.

The gentleman is absolutely correct. Every one of us, Democrat and 
Republican, we support our troops. All of the troops in harm's way 
tonight are in our prayers.

Just this week I visited Walter Reed Army Hospital and visited a 19-
year-old corporal, John Slatton, from Delight, Arkansas. Most folks 
have never heard of Delight, Arkansas. It is a town of about 400 
people. If you are my age or older, you might remember it as the 
hometown of Glen Campbell, who was a country singer and had a comedy 
show on Saturday nights back in the 1960s.

But this young man got to Iraq in October, had to have staples put in 
his head from a bullet that grazed his head in December. And on Easter, 
his family received a call that he had been shot by enemy fire and the 
bullet had entered near his left ear and exited the right side. The 
good Lord was working overtime that day. It missed his brain and


he is going to survive. He is going to have some challenges, and I ask 
that everybody join me in keeping him and his family in our hearts and 
our prayers.

We have all been touched by this. My brother-in-law is in the Air 
Force. He is serving in the Middle East tonight, and I am so very proud 
of his service and all of those who serve us in uniform. They do 
everything that we as a government ask them to do. But it is very 
important that we not only support them but that we provide them a 
direction that can ensure victory in Iraq and allow them to return home 
in the not-too-distant future to their families and loved ones.



I thank the gentleman for standing here with me tonight to demand 
accountability because we owe it to these brave men and women in 
uniform who serve our country and who we are so very proud of.

This is not a Democrat or a Republican thing. This is an American 
thing, and as Americans, we all stand in support of our men and women 
in uniform, not only while they are serving us overseas, but we have a 
commitment to them to provide them a new generation of veterans coming 
home with the very best in medicine and health care and opportunities 
so that they can be reintegrated into our society as productive 
citizens, as important citizens who have done so much for this country 
and for whom we owe so much.

I am very pleased to be also joined this evening by a fellow Blue Dog 
from the State of Tennessee, Mr. Lincoln Davis. At this time, I would 
yield to the gentleman from Tennessee.