# None
## `0f70fc29bd72cb096c2574923341780f`
`Mr. ROCKEFELLER — 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. ROCKEFELLER. Madam President, let me take this opportunity to 
thank many people but not the particular Senator who is objecting--1 
out of 100. Nevertheless, Senators Reid, Bond, myself, and others have 
worked very hard to move this fiscal year 2007 Intelligence 
authorization bill forward. All parties have been enormously supportive 
in this effort. It is one of the more embarrassing efforts I have been 
associated with in my 24 years in this body. I must express my dismay, 
my absolute dismay. I will hold it to that.

Despite considerable efforts on the part of the chairman and Vice 
Chairman Bond and extensive efforts and negotiations to get agreement 
on this bill, there is still an objection from one Senator for its 
consideration. Is it just another bill? Not quite. The Senate's failure 
to pass this critical national security legislation for the past 2 
years is remarkably shocking and inexcusable.

In 2005, the Senate failed, for the first time since the 
establishment of the congressional intelligence committees, to pass an 
annual Intelligence authorization bill. That means for 27 years we 
passed authorization bills for the Intelligence Committee. It is not an 
inconsequential committee. It instructs how intelligence is to be done. 
There are a number of changes that have been agreed to. All of that 
failure was followed by a repeat failure in 2006--in 2005 and then in 
2006.



So from 1978 through 2004, the Senate had an unbroken 27-year record 
of completing its work on this critical legislation. You cannot move to 
appropriations until you go through authorization, particularly in a 
field such as intelligence authorization that has an unbelievably 
important role. The Intelligence authorization bill has been considered 
must-pass legislation for many years--until recently. Now, in the midst 
of the war on terror, with things going downhill in Iraq, going 
downhill in Afghanistan, and our continued military involvement in both 
places, when good intelligence is not just vital but a matter of life 
and death--and I emphasize the second--we have been prevented from 
passing that bill that provides the legislative roadmap for our 
intelligence programs.

Similar to the Defense authorization and appropriations bills, the 
Intelligence authorization bill is at the core of our efforts to 
protect America. That is why it is simply incomprehensible, shocking, 
and debasing that we cannot find a way to bring up and pass this 
critical legislation.

The result of this continued obstruction will be diminished authority 
for intelligence agencies to do their job in protecting America. I hope 
the Senator involved takes satisfaction in that. I am not sure his 
constituents--if it is a he--would. Yes, I am angry.

The authorization bill contains 16 separate provisions enhancing or 
clarifying the authority of the Director of National Intelligence. The 
bill includes major improvements in the way we approach and manage 
human intelligence, information sharing, protection of sources and 
methods, and even the nominations process for key intelligence 
community leaders.

I came to the floor several times last year to explain those 
provisions in detail. Today, I reiterate how important this legislation 
is to the war on terrorism and to every other aspect of our national 
security, including the ongoing fight in Iraq and Afghanistan. This 
should have happened years ago. Somebody objects and, of course, it 
cannot happen; the rules of the Senate prevail.

There is no reason the Senate cannot pass this bill quickly, so that 
we can confer with the House before the committee is required to turn 
its attention to drafting and reporting out what will be another 
experiment, the 2008 authorization, which we should already be halfway 
toward completing. If there is objection to passing this bill by 
unanimous consent, we have been--the vice chairman and I, who worked 
very well together--more than willing to negotiate a time agreement and 
quickly debate and pass this long-overdue national security bill.

It is essential we assist the men and women of the intelligence 
agencies to continue their vital work on the frontlines of Iraq and 
Afghanistan and something called the war on terror.