---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3159, ENSURING MILITARY READINESS  THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `0f86c8e4894d97dee2f5f4c683c92714`
`Mr. SHAYS — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, this is a closed rule. It is a continuation of closed 
rules on an issue that should be a very open. We went into Iraq on a 
bipartisan basis; that cannot be denied. Two-thirds of the House voted 
to go into Iraq, three-quarters of the Senate voted to go into Iraq.

The Senate is allowing open debate on the issue of Iraq. There was 
the Webb-Hagel amendment, which is basically this underlying bill. 
There was the Hagel-Levin amendment, which talked about troops not 
being sent in for more than 12 months if they are in the Army and 7 
months if they are in the Marines. That was an amendment I would have 
liked to have introduced to this bill. Why couldn't we have had a 
debate on it? If it doesn't make sense, and there would have been a 
number on my side of the aisle who would have voted against it, it 
would have defeated it. But we would have started to have some dialogue 
about the condition of our troops. That would be a healthy thing to 
have.

But the most important amendment that was presented was the effort by 
Mr. Wolf to have support for the Iraq Study Group. The thing that is 
astonishing is, when we voted about the Iraq Study Group a few weeks 
ago, only 69 Members in the Chamber voted against it, but it was 
attached to an appropriation. And being attached to an appropriation, 
we can't get the Senate to act until Lord knows when, probably after 
October when we are supposed to have our budgets done. We need another 
vehicle.