# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `0f86df37b0393ad963babb0fa8b8e438`
`Mr. PALLONE — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, the debate taking place here in the House 
this week is long overdue. We are approaching our fifth year of this 
war, and this is the first time Congress is debating the strategy 
President Bush wants to implement in Iraq.

Congress can no longer stand on the sidelines, and the President has 
to know that to escalate the war in Iraq is simply not acceptable. We 
have lost too many American lives, seen too many soldiers seriously 
injured and spent too much of our hard-earned taxpayer money for no 
good reason. I am proud of my vote against the initial Iraq war 
resolution, and see this resolution before us tonight as the beginning 
of the end to U.S. military involvement in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor this evening to commend our troops 
for the valiant work they have done over the last 5 years. I am 
thinking of them when I voice my strong opposition to the President's 
plan to send 21,500 additional troops to Iraq.

The President hopes this troop escalation plan will secure Baghdad 
and reduce the sectarian violence that is ripping the country apart. 
But there is no evidence to support those hopes.

In fact, on four different occasions the President increased troop 
levels in Iraq, and every time these plans failed to calm the violence 
in Iraq. Last summer the President moved more troops into Baghdad and 
said that he hoped to see some results in a matter of months. By 
October, General William Caldwell had publicly stated that the surge 
was a failure and the operations had ''not met our overall expectations 
of sustaining a reduction in the levels of violence.''

Additional troops are not going to make a difference because there 
simply is not a military solution to the war in Iraq. The devastating 
sectarian violence is going to continue, but our troops should no 
longer be asked to serve as referees in a battle between religious 
sects that have been fighting for centuries.

Mr. Speaker, many of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
claim that if you speak out against the President's proposal, you are 
not supporting our troops, and this is nonsense. And if they listened 
to the troops, they would know that not even a majority of our troops 
support the President's plan. According to a poll conducted by Army 
Times, a weekly newspaper popular with Active Duty and retired Army 
personnel, only 41 percent of our troops support the President's plan. 
But they will do whatever is asked of them, regardless of whether or 
not they agree with the command.

Mr. Speaker, at the beginning of the war, our troops fought without 
the body armor they needed to protect themselves against improvised 
electronic devices. It now appears that the military doesn't have the 
protective equipment needed to properly outfit the troops the President 
plans to send to Iraq. According to the Army, it lacks not only armor 
kits for soldiers, but also trucks and vehicles needed to accommodate 
any escalation in troop levels. Lieutenant General Steven Speaks, the 
Army's deputy chief of staff for force development, said any additional 
units of troops sent to Iraq would have to share the trucks assigned to 
the units now there.

Do supporters of this plan really believe this Congress should allow 
the President to move ahead without properly investigating whether or 
not our troops will have all the necessary protective equipment they 
need?

Mr. Speaker, we also need to realistically look at the distraction 
that the Iraq war is causing in the overall war against terror. While 
the administration and the Pentagon focus their attention on Iraq, the 
war in Afghanistan has been forgotten. The Taliban has significantly 
grown in strength in Afghanistan, and America needs to focus its 
attention there, the source of the attacks on 9/11.

Mr. Speaker, I opposed this war from the very beginning, and want to 
see our troops home. The President should be putting forth a plan for 
withdrawal from Iraq, not escalation. I am willing to vote to cut off 
funding for the escalation. I have voted against the Iraq supplemental 
appropriation bills to send a message that we need to end U.S. military 
involvement in Iraq. With this resolution, we begin the process of 
getting out of a place where we should never have been from the 
beginning.