# RECOGNIZING THE FAIRVIEW SOUTH SCHOOL PENNIES FOR PEACE PROGRAM
## `0f8d31da9d96dc5f6bba5ac301e8ca89`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 13 May 2010`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise tonight to recognize an 
extraordinary group of students in Skokie, Illinois.

I would like to recognize 6th grade students Lucas Brace, Alexander 
Brown, Soretti Donka, Lily Griffin, J.D. Kim, Rachel Sison, Kevin 
Thurman, Patricia Valdepenas, and Tessa Waters, as well as their 
SPINOUT reading teacher, Ms. Yolanda Toni. These sixth grade students 
were inspired, after reading Greg Mortensen's book Three Cups of Tea, 
to collect pennies from their classmates at Fairview South School for 
the charity Pennies for Peace.

Ms. Toni's nine students worked with the school's Student Council and 
teacher sponsors Ms. Katherine MacLennan and Ms. Christina Sylvester. 
They made presentations to each grade level about the program and 
encouraged other students at the school to participate. Over two 
months, the students raised an impressive $1,524.26 for Pennies for 
Peace. They wrote letters to me and other elected officials explaining 
their program and urging us to also work to promote education for all 
children throughout the world.

Pennies for Peace is a fantastic charity, founded by Mortensen, that 
encourages students to collect their pennies, and, one cent at a time, 
to support education around the world. A penny might not seem like much 
money, but the students at Fairview South School demonstrated how 
quickly they can add up. This money will go to change the lives of 
students in Pakistan and Afghanistan and bring access to education and 
opportunity to girls and boys across the world.

The Fairview South students recognize that children in many places 
around the world do not have the same opportunities to attend school 
and gain an education as do kids in Skokie. Two students in the class 
wrote to me, and they eloquently argued that education is one of the 
most powerful tools we have to combat poverty, hopelessness, and 
violence.

One student wrote, ''I know how it feels to want a good education 
that can get me further in life.'' Another said, ''Can you imagine what 
it would be like if your children were unable to be educated? The 
luxury of elementary schools can indeed be taken for granted.'' These 
students know that helping girls and boys throughout the world, 
particularly in war-torn or impoverished countries, is one of the 
investments we can make.



Not only did the students at Fairview South raise an impressive 
number of pennies, but I hope that this program has also turned them 
into lifetime philanthropists. By participating in Pennies for Peace, 
students were able to help children in Pakistan and Afghanistan while 
also learning the invaluable lesson that even a small amount of money 
can make a big difference.

Again, I would like to thank the students and their teacher for their 
work with Pennies for Peace.
