---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `0f965b0501baea755cfd27ae3eba67dd`
`Mr. McCAIN — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today I am introducing legislation to fix 
a serious problem that has recently come to light with respect to the 
administration of the so-called Death Gratuity. The legislation is 
designed to ensure that a service member can designate to whom a death 
gratuity benefit is awarded.

Today's Washington Post includes an informative yet troubling article 
describing the plight of the mother of Petty Officer Second Class Jaime 
S. Jaenke, U. S. Navy, who died in Iraq in June 2006 as a result of an 
IED attack. Petty Officer Jaenke was a member of the Navy Reserve and a 
medic assigned to a Seabee Construction Battalion. She left behind a 
young daughter, Kayla, who is in the care of Kayla's grandmother, Susan 
Jaenke.

Regrettably, because of the manner in which death benefits are 
administered, a hardship situation has been created for Mrs. Jaenke. 
The article spells out that while the insurance proceeds have been set 
aside by the State court for the benefit of Kayla, they have not yet 
been made available. So in the meantime her grandmother is left trying 
to make ends meet because she is not allowed to receive the gratuity 
benefit that her daughter thought she would be providing, should the 
service member's unfortunate death occur.

The article describes a very difficult situation for the person on 
who Petty Officer Jaenke depended. The financial difficulties Mrs. 
Jaenke is experiencing is due in part by confusion about how the death 
gratuity benefit--a sum of $100,000--is being administered under law.

Under current law, the recipient of the $100,000 is dictated by the 
statute. It provides that a benefit is first awarded to an existing 
spouse. If there is no spouse, it then is provided to the children, and 
so on. It's a scheme that was set up to permit speedy resolution of 
what used to be a very modest benefit. In today's world, however, with 
the complex needs of service members, it does not comport with the 
realities of many of our service members and their families. It needs 
to be changed.

The legislation I am introducing would replace the statutory order of 
beneficiaries with provisions identical to that used to select 
beneficiaries under the Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance--SGLI. The 
bill would give service members the power to select precisely who will 
receive the $100,00 death gratuity. It would require the Secretary of 
Defense to, no later than April 1, 2007, to prepare regulations and 
create election forms that will enable service members to designate who 
will receive this benefit.

I hope we can move this legislation quickly and ensure that the 
intentions of our service members regarding the well being of their 
children and families can be carried out. We owe at least that much to 
those who are giving their lives for our nation.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.