---
---

# IN TRIBUTE TO REPRESENTATIVE JOHN P. MURTHA OF PENNSYLVANIA
## `0f9a18908840d4a794cc2d0e0254d4e8`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 24 February 2010`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Madam Speaker, Jack Murtha and I served 
together in this institution for over 30 years. We disagreed at times 
over policy and politics, but I am proud to say that Jack was my 
friend.

Throughout my time in Congress, I have never seen a more valiant 
defender of the men and women of our armed forces than Jack, nor a more 
steadfast advocate for our country's unequaled national defense.

Years ago, when I was convinced that we should push forward quickly 
with development of the Predator UAV, Jack listened to my reasons and 
helped me push through the funding that has produced one of our most 
valuable weapons in the War on Terror.

When I became chairman of the defense appropriations subcommittee, I 
counted on Jack Murtha to be a partner rather than an adversary when 
the welfare of our military was on the line. When we urged that the F-
22 program be reined in to ensure it was thoroughly tested, Jack was by 
my side and helped win the day and make that a better airplane.

Just weeks ago, Jack and I traveled together to Afghanistan. We were 
under tight timelines that were influenced by the situation on the 
ground. Although the travel was hard and the schedule was arduous, Jack 
maintained the energy and dedication of a man half his age. His 
unwavering purpose was to learn as much as he could, gain as much 
insight from our commanders as possible, and see for himself the 
challenges our country faces in that region.

He was a true patriot, and his passing is a cause for great sadness. 
This Congress will be a much lesser place without him.

My wife Arlene and I offer our most sincere condolences to his 
family, and also to his second family--his Congressional staff and the 
Members and staff of the Appropriations Committee.