---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `0f9a9cd90c1144ca753fa99e836c35cf`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for 2011.

I want to first thank the chairman of the committee, Mr. Skelton, for 
his outstanding leadership of this committee. He has once again put 
together a bill that reflects the priorities that should be in place 
for national defense: first and foremost, support our troops. I know 
nobody on that committee cares more about that issue than Mr. Skelton. 
He has once again made sure that this bill reflects that. It gives them 
a higher pay raise than was recommended by the Department of Defense 
and, across the board, makes sure that our troops and our families get 
the support they need to continue to do the amazing job that they are 
doing of defending this country. It is a great privilege to serve on 
this committee with Mr. Skelton and with Mr. McKeon and to have the 
responsibility for supporting our troops who have


served us so well. I thank him for his great leadership and for this 
bill.

On the Air and Land Subcommittee, I want to thank Mr. Bartlett, the 
ranking member on the committee. We have truly worked together in a 
very bipartisan fashion on this bill. That's one of the great things 
about being on the Armed Services Committee. We have a lot that we 
disagree on on a partisan basis in this body, but on the Armed Services 
Committee we work in a bipartisan way to make sure that we have a 
defense bill that protects our national security and supports our 
troops. And Mr. Bartlett certainly upholds that standard, and it's been 
a great pleasure working with him.

On our subcommittee, our top priority is to support our soldiers and 
airmen in the fight they are now fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. We 
want to make sure that they have the equipment they need to fulfill the 
mission that we have asked them to do. Towards that end, we have $3.9 
billion in the bill to upgrade and improve our helicopters, which are 
so critical to the mission that they are fighting; $3.4 billion to 
fully fund the MRAP, the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles that 
have done such an amazing job at improving the survivability of our 
troops when hit by IEDs; $3.4 billion for the JIEDDO account, which 
continues to find more and better ways to protect our troops from 
improvised explosive devices; $3.7 billion to fund intelligence, 
surveillance, and reconnaissance, which is critical to make sure that 
our troops get the information they need when they need it to be in the 
best position to protect themselves on the battlefield; a billion 
dollars for new Strykers, a vehicle that has been critical for our 
combat infantry brigades and their ability to be maneuverable enough to 
survive in the fight.

We are making sure in this bill that our troops in the field get the 
equipment they need to fulfill the mission we have asked them to do. We 
also set aside an additional $700 million in this bill for the Army and 
Air Force Guard and Reserve equipment accounts. As we all know, Guard 
and Reserve members have been asked to do far more than they ever have 
in the history of this country. They are stressed and strained, and 
their equipment is being used at a far greater pace than anyone 
anticipated. We want to make sure that they have the funds available to 
replenish that equipment and make sure that they get the training they 
need so that they are able to do the job here in the U.S. we ask them 
to do, and also the job that we ask them to do in Afghanistan and Iraq.



We are also concerned in this bill and continue to be concerned about 
our procurement and acquisition process. We passed acquisition reform 
again under Chairman Skelton's great leadership, but we have a fair 
number of programs, certainly the Joint Strike Fighter, future combat 
systems that have not delivered on time and on budget. We have to make 
sure that we get every penny that we spend, and it is spent efficiently 
and effectively. We need to continue to work to make sure the programs 
that we procure meet that standard.

That is why I, too, along with Mr. McKeon, am strongly supportive of 
the second engine program. And it has been our committee's position for 
a long time to support that program. We believe that it is an efficient 
use of taxpayer dollars.

So I thank you, Mr. Chairman, again for your great leadership. I 
believe this bill gives us a very strong national security.