---
---

# VETERANS' HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `0f9a132365a779fee19ca996066b0e63`
`Mr. MICHAUD — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. MICHAUD. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chairman Filner and Ranking 
Member Buyer for their leadership on the Committee and for moving these 
four bills forward to help our veterans. I would also like to thank 
Ranking Member Miller for working with me on the veterans' health care 
bills we are considering today.

I will limit my comments to H.R. 2874, although I support each of the 
bills we are considering today. H.R. 2874 was passed unanimously by our 
Committee. It represents a bipartisan effort to address a variety of 
issues facing our veterans.

Section 2 of H.R. 2874 supports therapeutic readjustment programs to 
assist veterans in their long physical and mental journey home through 
a new grant program. Veterans already participate in these programs 
without any financial assistance or guidance from the VA. It is my hope 
that this new grant program will increase the number of veterans using 
these rehabilitative options and that this will enable VA and providers 
to better assess the benefits of these programs to veterans.

Section 3 authorizes funding for transportation grants for rural 
veterans. Access to care is a significant challenge for rural veterans. 
This program will provide grants to VSOs to implement innovative ways 
of overcoming this challenge. This section was authored by Mr. Salazar.

Section 4 provides permanent authority for VA treatment of 
participants in the DOD chemical and biological testing conducted by 
Deseret Test Center, including Project SHAD (Shipboard Hazard and 
Defense). This permanent authority was requested by the VA. Section 5 
extends collections authorities for the VA until 2009. This extension 
was also requested by the VA.

Section 6 authorizes the VA to provide expanded readjustment and 
mental health services in areas determined by the secretary to be 
underserved, especially peer-to-peer outreach services, for Operation 
Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom veterans.

Sections 7 and 8 come from Congressman Patrick Murphy's legislation, 
H.R. 2699. It is no surprise that Congressman Murphy has taken a 
leadership role in helping our Nation's veterans, and I thank him for 
his work. There are as many as 200,000 veterans on the streets each 
night. This is a shame on our Nation that must be addressed. The 
provisions from Congressman Murphy's bill are critical to ending this 
shame and helping these veterans find their way home.

Section 7 expands and extends the successful VA program of referral 
and counseling for at-risk veterans transitioning from certain 
institutions. The program is extended to 2011 and expanded from six 
locations to 12. These services are largely directed toward 
incarcerated veterans. There were over 225,000 veterans in prison in 
1998. I believe it is important that we make every effort to make sure 
that they do not return to prison.

Section 8 requires the Secretary to ensure that VA domiciliary 
programs are adequate in capacity and safety to meet the needs of women 
veterans. Homeless women veterans are an increasing proportion of the 
homeless veteran population. We need to make sure that facilities are 
capable of safely caring for this population and helping them get back 
on their feet.

Section 9 authorizes funding for the Secretary to provide financial 
assistance to eligible entities to provide supportive services for very 
low-income veteran families residing in permanent housing. This section 
comes from a bill authored by Congresswoman Herseth Sandlin.

Section 10 changes from 60 days to 30 days the required time for a 
homeless veteran to be in a VA program before they are eligible for 
dental care. Section 11 makes technical amendments to title 38.

Overall, this bill continues the ongoing efforts of our Committee and 
this Congress to address the needs of our veterans and their families. 
It is my hope that when we return in September, we can work quickly 
with the Senate to create an omnibus package that includes H.R. 2874, 
H.R. 2199, Mr. Miller's bill H.R. 2623, and other important veterans' 
health care initiatives to send to the President for his signature.

I believe this is a good bipartisan bill and I ask my colleagues for 
their support.