# CONSUMER-FIRST ENERGY ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `0f9faef169d333889ed65269d0afb986`
`Mr. LEVIN — 10 June 2008`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, day after day record-high oil and gasoline 
prices are causing immense harm to millions of American consumers and 
businesses. Unless something is done to make energy more affordable, 
these record-high prices will continue to damage our economy, 
increasing the prices of transportation, food, manufacturing, and 
everything in between. Skyrocketing energy prices are a threat to our 
economic and national security, and the time is long past for action.

My Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations has conducted four 
separate investigations into how our energy markets can be made to work 
better. Most recently, last December, we had a joint hearing with the 
Senate Energy Subcommittee on the role of speculation in rising energy 
prices. As a result of these investigations and hearings, I have been 
advocating a variety of measures to address the rampant speculation and 
lack of regulation of energy markets which have contributed to sky high 
energy prices:

First, put a cop--a regulatory agency--back on the beat in the energy 
markets to prevent excessive speculation and manipulation. That 
includes closing the Enron loophole and the London loophole and taking 
other steps to strengthen market oversight.

Second, develop alternatives to fossil fuels to reduce our dependence 
on oil.

Third, impose a windfall profits tax on oil companies that have 
profited from the massive price runup and use the money to help 
consumers, boost domestic energy supplies, improve energy technologies, 
and strengthen our energy markets.

One of the major causes of our energy crisis is the failed policies 
of the current administration. The chickens have come home to roost on 
7 years of a business-as-usual energy policy, paired with fiscal and 
foreign policies that have pushed our growing energy problem close to a 
breaking point. Because the administration has proved itself unable and 
unwilling to take the necessary steps to provide affordable energy 
supplies to the American people, it is up to the Congress to try to 
jump-start a comprehensive solution to skyrocketing energy prices. 
Congress already has taken two important steps this year--we have 
closed the Enron loophole and we have stopped the administration's 
misguided program to keep on filling the SPR despite record-high 
prices--but more can and should be done. That is why I support 
enactment of the Consumer-First Energy Act now before us and will be 
voting for cloture on this bill.

Last week the price of crude oil reached a record high price of about 
$139 per barrel. Sky-high crude oil prices have led to record highs in 
the price of other fuels produced from crude oil, including gasoline, 
heating oil, diesel fuel, and jet fuel. The national average price of 
gasoline is at a record high of just over $4 per gallon. The price of 
diesel fuel, which is normally less expensive than gasoline, has soared 
to a record high of nearly $4.60 per gallon.

Rising energy prices increase the cost of getting to work and taking 
our children to school, traveling by car, truck, air and rail, and 
growing the food we eat and transporting it to market. Rising energy 
prices increase the cost of producing the medicines we need for our 
health, heating our homes and offices, generating electricity, and 
manufacturing countless industrial and consumer products. The 
relentless increase in jet fuel prices, which have added nearly $75 
billion to our airlines' annual fuel costs, has contributed to airline 
bankruptcies, mergers, fare increases, and service cuts. ''If fuel 
continues to go up, this industry cannot survive in current form,'' the 
president of the Air Transport Association said recently. Rising diesel 
prices have placed a crushing burden upon our Nation's truckers, 
farmers, manufacturers, and other industries. To make matters worse, 
our energy costs are rising much more quickly than energy costs in 
other countries, directly threatening our global competitiveness.

In January 2001, when President Bush took office, the price of oil 
was about $30 per barrel. The average price for a gallon of gasoline 
was about $1.50. Since President Bush took office, crude oil prices 
have more than quadrupled, natural gas prices to heat our homes have 
almost doubled, gasoline prices have nearly tripled, and diesel fuel 
prices have more than tripled.

It doesn't have to be this way. Just 7 years ago, at the end of the 
Clinton Administration, energy supplies were plentiful, and gasoline 
and other forms of energy were affordable. Once the Bush administration 
took office, however, it didn't take them long to eliminate the budget 
surplus by cutting taxes mainly for the wealthiest among us, creating a 
huge annual budget deficit, and driving up the national debt. This 
fiscal mismanagement has contributed significantly to a steep decline 
in the value of the dollar and soaring commodity prices. Because 
American currency is worth less, it takes more of them to buy the same 
barrel of oil. American consumers and businesses are forced to spend 
more and more of their hard-earned dollars to buy the same amount of 
energy.



During the last years of the Clinton administration, the United 
States ran a budget surplus, totaling nearly $560 billion. But over the 
past 6 years of the Bush administration the annual deficits have 
totaled nearly $1.7 trillion, not counting the amount by which the Bush 
administration has been draining the Social Security and Medicare trust 
funds. When this is counted, under this administration the total 
outstanding debt has increased by a whopping $3.2 trillion.

When President Clinton left office, the dollar was worth more than 
the Euro. In January 2001, it took only about 90 cents to buy one Euro. 
Today, it takes about $1.60 to buy one Euro--a record low for the 
dollar. The fall in the value of the dollar is a result of a weakened 
U.S. economy, a high trade deficit and a worldwide lack of confidence 
in the Bush administration's ability to manage our Nation's economy and 
foreign policy.

As long as this administration continues to insist on irresponsible 
fiscal practices--including tax cuts for people with the highest income 
and an open-ended conflict in Iraq that is costing $12 billion a 
month--the dollar will likely continue to decline in value. The 
marketplace has rendered a clear ''no confidence'' in this 
administration's fiscal competence.

Besides the weak dollar, there are other factors at work that account 
for soaring energy prices. Some are beyond our control; others we can 
do something about. In global markets, for example, the combination of 
increasing demand from developing countries, coupled with a variety of 
political problems in supplier countries, has contributed to price 
increases. Growing demand for oil and gas in China, India, and other 
developing countries is contributing to an overall increase in global 
demand for crude oil. On the supply side, many oil producing countries 
are politically unstable and have not been fully reliable suppliers. 
For example, in Nigeria, which is a major oil-producing country, for 
several years tribal gangs have been sabotaging production and 
pipelines.

While we can't do much about growing demand in China and India, other 
causes of high prices can be addressed. For example, one key factor in 
energy price spikes is rampant speculation in the energy markets. 
Traders are trading contracts for future delivery of oil in record 
amounts, creating a paper demand that is driving up prices and 
increasing price volatility solely to take a profit. Overall, the 
amount of trading of futures and options in oil on the New York 
Mercantile Exchange has risen sixfold in recent years, from 500,000 
outstanding contracts in 2001, to about 3 million contracts now.

Much of this increase in trading of futures has been due to 
speculation. Speculators in the oil market do not intend to use crude 
oil; instead they buy and sell contracts for crude oil just to make a 
profit from the changing prices. The number of futures and options 
contracts held by speculators has gone from around 100,000 contracts in 
2001, which was 20 percent of the total number of outstanding 
contracts, to 1.2 million contracts currently held by speculators, 
which represents almost 40 percent of the outstanding futures and 
options contracts in oil on NYMEX .

There are now 12 times as many speculative holdings as there was in 
2001, while holdings of nonspeculative futures and options are up but 3 
times.

Not surprisingly, this massive speculation that the price of oil will 
increase has, in fact, helped fuel the actual increase in the price of 
oil to a level far above the price that is justified by the traditional 
forces of supply and demand.

The president and CEO of Marathon Oil recently said, ''$100 oil isn't 
justified by the physical demand in the market. It has to be 
speculation on the futures market that is fueling this.'' Mr. Fadel 
Gheit, oil analyst for Oppenheimer and Company, describes the oil 
market as ''a farce.'' ''The speculators have seized control and it's 
basically a free-for-all, a global gambling hall, and it won't shut 
down unless and until responsible governments step in.'' In January of 
this year, as oil hit $100 barrel, Mr. Tim Evans, oil analyst for 
Citigroup, wrote ''the larger supply and demand fundamentals do not 
support a further rise and are, in fact, more consistent with lower 
price levels.'' At the joint hearing on the effects of speculation held 
by my subcommittee last December, Dr. Edward Krapels, a financial 
market analyst, testified, ''Of course financial trading, speculation 
affects the price of oil because it affects the price of everything we 
trade. . . . It would be amazing if oil somehow escaped this effect.'' 
Dr. Krapels added that as a result of this speculation, ''There is a 
bubble in oil prices.''


A fair price for a commodity is a price that accurately reflects the 
forces of supply and demand for the commodity, not the trading 
strategies of speculators who only are in the market to make a profit 
by the buying and selling of paper contracts with no intent to actually 
purchase, deliver, or transfer the commodity. As we have all too often 
seen in recent years, when speculation grows so large that it has a 
major impact on the market, prices get distorted and stop reflecting 
true supply and demand.

Last month, Senator Jack Reed and I wrote a letter asking President 
Bush to appoint a high-level task force to evaluate how speculators are 
driving up prices through manipulative or deceptive devices. The task 
force should also evaluate whether there are adequate regulatory tools 
to control market speculation and prevent manipulation. Hopefully the 
President will act quickly to convene this task force.

Excessive market speculation is a factor that we can and should do a 
better job of controlling. There are other long overdue actions as well 
that, if taken as part of a comprehensive plan, can combat rising 
energy prices.

As to reining in speculation, the first step to take is to put a cop 
back on the beat in all our energy markets to prevent excessive 
speculation, price manipulation, and trading abuses. In 2001, my Senate 
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations began investigating our energy 
markets. At the time, the price of a gallon of gasoline had spiked 
upwards by about 25 cents over the course of the Memorial Day holiday. 
We subpoenaed records from major oil companies and interviewed oil 
industry experts, gas station dealers, antitrust experts, gasoline 
wholesalers and distributors, and oil company executives. We examined 
thousands of prices at gas stations in Michigan, Ohio, California, and 
other States. In the spring of 2002, I released a 400-page report and 
held 2 days of hearings on the results of the investigation.

The investigation found that increasing concentration in the gasoline 
refining industry, due to a large number of recent mergers and 
acquisitions, was one of the causes of the increasing number of 
gasoline price spikes. Another factor causing price spikes was the 
increasing tendency of refiners to keep lower inventories of gasoline. 
We also found a number of instances in which the increasing 
concentration in the refining industry was also leading to higher 
prices in general. Limitations on the pipeline that brings gasoline 
into my home State of Michigan were another cause of price increases 
and spikes in Michigan. The report recommended that the Federal Trade 
Commission carefully investigate proposed mergers, particularly with 
respect to the effect of mergers on inventories of gasoline.

The investigation discovered one instance in which a major oil 
company was considering ways to prevent other refiners from supplying 
gasoline to the Midwest so that supply would be constricted and prices 
would increase.

In March 2003, my subcommittee released a second report detailing how 
the operation of crude oil markets affects the price of not only 
gasoline but also key commodities like home heating oil, jet fuel, and 
diesel fuel. The report warned that U.S. energy markets were vulnerable 
to price manipulation due to a lack of comprehensive regulation and 
market oversight.

Following this report, I worked with Senator Feinstein on legislation 
to put the cop back on the beat in those energy markets that had been 
exempted from regulation pursuant to an ''Enron loophole'' that was 
snuck into other legislation in December 2000. For 2 years we attempted 
to close the Enron loophole, but efforts to put the cop back on the 
beat in these markets were unsuccessful, due to opposition from the 
Bush administration, large energy companies, and large financial 
institutions that trade energy commodities.

In June 2006, I released another Subcommittee report, ''The Role of 
Market


Speculation in Rising Oil and Gas Prices: A Need to Put a Cop on the 
Beat.'' This report found that the traditional forces of supply and 
demand no longer accounted for sustained price increases and price 
volatility in the oil and gasoline markets. The report determined that, 
in 2006, that a growing number of energy trades occurred without 
regulatory oversight and that market speculation had contributed to 
rising oil and gasoline prices, perhaps accounting for $20 out of a 
then-priced $70 barrel of oil.

The subcommittee report I released in June 2006 again recommended new 
laws to increase market oversight and stop market manipulation and 
excessive speculation. I again coauthored legislation with Senator 
Feinstein to improve oversight of the unregulated energy markets. Once 
again, opposition from the Bush administration, large energy traders, 
and the financial industry prevented the full Senate from considering 
this legislation.

In 2007, my Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations addressed the 
sharp rise in natural gas prices over the previous year and released a 
fourth report, entitled ''Excessive Speculation in the Natural Gas 
Market.'' Our investigation showed that speculation by a single hedge 
fund named Amaranth had distorted natural gas prices during the summer 
of 2006 and drove up prices for average consumers. The report also 
demonstrated how Amaranth had traded in unregulated markets to avoid 
the restrictions and oversight in the regulated markets and how the 
price increases caused by Amaranth could have been prevented if there 
had been the same type of oversight in the unregulated markets as in 
the regulated markets.

Following this investigation, I introduced a new bill, S. 2058, to 
close the Enron loophole and regulate the unregulated electronic energy 
markets. Working again with Senators Feinstein and Snowe and with the 
members of the Agriculture Committee in a bipartisan effort, we finally 
managed to include an amendment to close the Enron loophole in the farm 
bill that was then being considered by the Senate. The Senate 
unanimously passed this amendment to close the Enron loophole last 
December. The final farm bill that was passed by the House and Senate 
last month included language nearly identical to what the Senate had 
passed. Although President Bush vetoed the entire farm bill, both the 
House and Senate have overridden his veto. Our 5-year quest to close 
the Enron Loophole has finally been successful.

The CFTC is now in the process of implementing the close-the-Enron-
loophole law. Among other steps, it is charged with reviewing the 
contracts on previously unregulated energy markets, like the 
Intercontinental Exchange or ICE, to determine which contracts have a 
significant effect on energy prices and must undergo daily oversight. 
Once that process is complete, the cop will be back on the beat in 
those markets for the first time since 2000.

Closing the Enron loophole is vitally important for energy market 
oversight as a whole, and for our natural gas markets in particular, 
but it is not enough. Because over the last 2 years, energy traders 
have moved a significant amount of U.S. crude oil and gasoline trading 
to the United Kingdom, beyond the direct reach of U.S. regulators, we 
have to address that second loophole too. I call it closing the London 
loophole.

There are currently two key energy commodity markets for U.S. crude 
oil and gasoline trading. The first is the New York Mercantile Exchange 
or NYMEX, located in New York City. The second is the ICE Futures 
Europe exchange, located in London and regulated by the British agency 
called the Financial Services Authority.

The British regulators, however, do not oversee their energy markets 
the same way we do; they don't place limits on speculation like we do, 
and they don't make public the same type of trading data that we do. 
That means that traders can avoid the limits on speculation in crude 
oil imposed on the New York exchange by trading on the London exchange. 
It also makes the London exchange less transparent than the New York 
exchange. My original legislation to close the Enron loophole would 
have required U.S. traders on the London exchange to provide U.S. 
regulators with the same type of trading information that they are 
already required to provide when they trade on the New York Mercantile 
Exchange. Unfortunately, this provision was dropped from the close-the-
Enron-loophole legislation in the farm bill.

The Consumer-First Energy Act, S. 3044, which the majority leader and 
others introduced recently to address high prices and reduce 
speculation, includes at my request a provision to curb rampant 
speculation, increase our access to foreign exchange trading data, and 
strengthen oversight of the trading of U.S. energy commodities no 
matter where that trading occurs. This provision would require the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, prior to allowing a foreign 
exchange to establish direct trading terminals located in this country, 
to obtain an agreement from the that foreign exchange, such as the 
London exchange, to impose speculative limits and reporting 
requirements on traders of U.S. energy commodities that are comparable 
to the requirements imposed by the CFTC on U.S. exchanges. I believe 
this issue is so important that I have introduced this section of the 
package as a separate bill, which is numbered S. 2995. Senator 
Feinstein is a cosponsor of that bill.


Following the introduction of our legislation, the CFTC finally moved 
to address some of the gaps in its ability to oversee foreign exchanges 
operating in the United States. Specifically, the CFTC, working with 
the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority and the ICE Futures 
Europe exchange, announced that it will now obtain the following 
information about the trading of U.S. crude oil contracts on the London 
exchange:




 Daily large trader reports on positions in West Texas 


 Intermediate or WTI contracts traded on the London exchange; 


 information on those large trader positions for all futures 


 contracts, not just a limited set of contracts due to expire 


 in the near future; enhanced trader information to permit 


 more detailed identification of end users; improved data 


 formatting to facilitate integration of the data with other 


 CFTC data systems; and notification to the CFTC of when a 


 trader on ICE Futures Europe exceeds the position 


 accountability levels established by NYMEX for the trading of 


 WTI crude oil contracts.


These new steps will strengthen the CFTC's ability to detect and 
prevent manipulation and excessive speculation in the oil and gasoline 
markets. It will ensure that the CFTC has the same type of information 
it receives from U.S. exchanges in order to detect and prevent 
manipulation and excessive speculation.

However, in order to fully close the London loophole, better 
information is not enough. The CFTC must also have clear authority to 
act upon this information to stop manipulation and excessive 
speculation.

That is why I have been working with the sponsors of the Consumer-
First Energy Act to include additional language to ensure that the CFTC 
has the authority to act upon the information it will obtain from the 
London exchange, in order to prevent price manipulation and excessive 
speculation. This new provision, which I helped author, would make it 
clear that the CFTC has the authority to prosecute and punish 
manipulation of the price of a commodity, regardless of whether the 
trader within the United States is trading on a U.S. or on a foreign 
exchange. It would also make it clear that the CFTC has the authority 
to require traders in the United States to reduce their positions, no 
matter where the trading occurs--on a U.S. or foreign exchange--to 
prevent price manipulation or excessive speculation. Finally, it would 
clarify that the CFTC has the authority to require all U.S. traders to 
keep records of their trades, regardless of which exchange the trader 
is using.

It is my understanding that this new provision will be included in a 
substitute amendment that will be offered today or in a future debate 
on this bill, if cloture is not invoked today. I thank the bill 
sponsors for accepting this language to ensure that the CFTC has full 
enforcement authority over traders within the United States who are 
trading on a foreign exchange, just as the CFTC has over traders who 
are trading on a U.S. exchange. This clarification of the CFTC's 
enforcement authority over traders in the United States, together with 
the earlier provision setting standards for foreign boards of


trade wishing to place trading terminals in the United States, will 
fully close the London loophole.

There is another problem with our energy markets that Congress has 
finally acted on. In 2003, a report issued by my Subcommittee staff 
found that the Bush administration's large deposits of oil into the 
Strategic Petroleum Reserve, SPR, were increasing crude oil prices 
without improving overall U.S. energy security. We found that in 2002, 
the Bush administration, over the repeated objections of its own 
experts in the Department of Energy, had changed its policy and decided 
to put oil into the SPR regardless of the price of oil or market 
conditions. By placing oil into the SPR while oil prices were high and 
oil supplies were tight, the administration's deposits into the SPR 
were reducing market supplies and boosting prices, with almost no 
benefit to national security, given the fact that the SPR is more than 
95 percent filled. The DOE experts believed that in a tight market, we 
are better off with keeping the oil on the market rather than putting 
it into the ground where it cannot be used.

Following the issuance of this report, in early 2003, I asked the 
Department of Energy to suspend its filling of the SPR until prices had 
abated and supplies were more plentiful. DOE refused to change course 
and continued the SPR fill without regard to market supplies or prices.

After DOE denied my request, I offered a bipartisan amendment with 
Senator Collins to the Interior appropriations bill, which provides 
funding for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve program, to require DOE to 
minimize the costs to the taxpayers and market impacts when placing oil 
into the SPR. The Senate unanimously adopted our amendment, but it was 
dropped from the conference report due to the Bush Administration's 
continued opposition.

The next spring, I offered another amendment, also with Senator 
Collins, to the budget resolution, expressing the sense of the Senate 
that the administration should postpone deliveries into the SPR and use 
the savings from the postponement to increase funding for national 
security programs. The amendment passed the Senate by a vote of 52 to 
43. That fall, we attempted to attach a similar amendment to the 
homeland security appropriations bill that would have postponed the SPR 
fill and used the savings for homeland security programs, but the 
amendment was defeated by a procedural vote, even though the majority 
of Senators voted in favor of the amendment, 48 to 47.

The next year, the Senate passed the Levin-Collins amendment to the 
Energy Policy Act of 2005 to require the DOE to consider price impacts 
and minimize the costs to the taxpayers and market impacts when placing 
oil into the SPR. The Levin-Collins amendment was agreed to by the 
conferees and is now law.

Unfortunately, passage of this provision has had no effect upon DOE's 
actions. DOE continued to fill the SPR regardless of the market effects 
of buying oil, thereby taking oil off the market and reducing supply by 
placing it into the SPR. In the past year, no matter what the price of 
oil or market conditions, DOE consistently found that the market 
effects are negligible and no reason to delay filling the SPR.

Most recently, at the same time the President was urging OPEC to put 
more oil on the market to reduce supplies, the administration was 
continuing to take oil off the market and place it into the SPR. Until 
recently, the DOE was depositing about 70,000 barrels of crude oil per 
day into the SPR, much of it high-quality crude oil ideal for refining 
into gasoline. It defies common sense for the U.S. Government to be 
acquiring oil at $120 or $130 per barrel, in a time of tight supply, 
taking that oil off the market, and putting it in the SPR. That is why 
I cosponsored Senator Dorgan's bill to suspend the SPR fill, as well as 
a similar provision in the Consumer-First Energy Act.

Finally, Congress had had enough of this senseless policy. The 
provision to stop the continuous filing of the SPR was pulled from the 
Consumer-First Energy Act and offered in the House and Senate as a 
stand alone bill. Congress enacted into law by an overwhelming vote. In 
response, the President finally called a halt to his policy and stopped 
filling the SPR. It is about time.

The SPR fill policy, by the way, exacerbated yet another problem in 
our oil markets--the fact that the standard NYMEX futures contract that 
sets the benchmark price for U.S. crude oil requires a particular type 
of high quality crude oil known as West Texas Intermediate, WTI, to be 
delivered at a particular location, Cushing, OK. The standard NYMEX 
contract price, in turn, has a major influence on the price of fuels 
refined from crude oil such as gasoline, heating oil, and diesel.

Because the price of the standard contract depends upon the supply of 
WTI at Cushing, OK, the supply and demand conditions in Oklahoma have a 
disproportionate influence on the price of NYMEX futures contracts. 
That means when the WTI price is no longer representative of the price 
of U.S. crude oil in general, the prices of other energy commodities 
are also thrown out of whack. In other words, we have an oil futures 
market that reflects the supply and demand conditions in Cushing, OK, 
but not necessarily the overall supply and demand situation in the 
United States as a whole.

I have long called for reform of this outdated feature of the 
standard NYMEX crude oil contract. In 2003, the PSI report recommended 
the CFTC and NYMEX to work together to revise the standard NYMEX crude 
oil futures contract to reduce its susceptibility to local imbalances 
in the market for WTI crude oil. The subcommittee report suggested that 
allowing for delivery at other locations could reduce the volatility of 
the contract. It is truly disappointing that since our report was 
issued no progress has been made for allowing for delivery at other 
places than Cushing, OK. As the price of oil has increased, the 
distortions and imbalances caused by the atypical nature of the 
standard contract have gotten worse. It is essential NYMEX repair its 
crude oil contract.


Putting the cop on the beat in our energy markets, strengthening 
oversight of U.S. energy commodities traded on foreign exchanges, 
stopping the SPR fill, and fixing the NYMEX crude oil contract all 
focus on problems caused by rising energy prices. These consistently 
rising gas prices also underscore the need to develop advanced vehicle 
technologies and alternative energy sources that will significantly 
reduce our dependence on foreign oil.

I have long advocated advanced automotive technologies such as hybrid 
electric, advanced batteries, hydrogen and fuel cells and promoted 
development of these technologies through Federal research and 
development and through joint government-industry partnerships. We need 
a significant infusion of Federal dollars into these efforts to make 
revolutionary breakthroughs in automotive technologies. Such an 
investment will make technologies such as plug-in hybrid vehicles 
affordable to the American public and reduce our dependence on oil and 
reduce prices at the pump.

We need an equally strong investment in development of alternative 
fuels that can replace gasoline. I have strongly supported efforts to 
increase our production of renewable fuels and to do that in a way that 
will also reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. We need a strong push 
toward biofuels produced from cellulosic materials, which requires a 
significantly greater Federal investment in biofuels technologies. 
Cellulosic ethanol has enormous potential for significant reductions in 
greenhouse gas emissions, but additional Federal support is required to 
make this technology financially viable. We need expanded Federal 
research and development grants as well as increased tax incentives and 
Federal loan guarantees to make cellulosic ethanol a viable replacement 
for gasoline. The Federal Government must do its part first to develop 
these technologies so that they will then in turn be within reach of 
the American public.

One more point. The burden of higher energy prices is not being 
shared equally. To the contrary, it is falling hardest upon those who 
can least afford it. Large oil companies are reaping record profits at 
the expense of the average American who ultimately bears the full 
burden of these price increases. At the same time that average 
Americans are having to devote a greater and greater portion of their 
income to pay for basic necessities, such as gasoline, household 
utilities, and food, the major oil companies are reporting record 
profits and


their executives are taking home annual paychecks of hundreds of 
millions of dollars. Many of these profits have been generated without 
any additional investments into energy production. Rather, these 
companies have seen their profits rise with the flood of speculation. 
What is a high tide of profits for the oil companies, though, is a 
tsunami that is overwhelming millions of Americans.

And what are these oil companies doing with these record profits? Are 
they investing in new technologies? The answer is that the oil 
companies are not increasing their exploration and development 
investments by nearly as much as their profits are increasing. Instead, 
they are devoting large amounts of their profits to acquiring other 
companies and buying back their own shares. On May 1 of this year, the 
Wall Street Journal reported that in the first quarter of 2008 
ExxonMobil spent $8 billion to buy back company shares, which ''boosted 
per-share earnings to stratospheric levels,'' whereas it spent less on 
exploration and actually reduced oil production.

For these reasons, we need to institute a windfall profits tax on the 
oil companies. We should incentivize big oil companies to invest their 
windfall profits into things that will increase our own domestic energy 
production by reducing the amount of the tax for such investments. If 
they don't make these investments, a portion of that profit should be 
recouped by the public to help offset the outrageous prices they are 
facing at the pump.

I have supported a windfall profits tax numerous times when we have 
voted on it in the Senate. The Consumer-First Energy Act, imposes a 25 
percent tax on windfall profits of the major oil companies. Windfall 
profits invested to boost domestic energy supplies would be exempt from 
the tax, which would encourage investments in renewable facilities and 
the production of renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel. It 
would also encourage oil companies to increase their domestic refinery 
capacity. Proceeds from the tax would be put toward measures to reduce 
the burdens of rising energy costs and increase our energy independence 
and security.

Sky-high energy prices are causing immense financial pain to working 
families and businesses throughout this country and tying our already 
weak economy in knots. Congress cannot just stand by; we must act now 
to stop the pain. Immediate steps include putting the cop on the beat 
in all of our energy markets to prevent price manipulation and 
excessive speculation, strengthening oversight of U.S. energy 
commodities traded in London, fixing the key NYMEX crude oil contract, 
investing in advanced vehicle technologies and alternative energy 
sources, and imposing a windfall profits tax on the oil companies. 
Longer range steps include fixing the fiscal policies undermining the 
strength of the U.S. dollar, including by eliminating tax cuts for the 
wealthiest among us, reducing the $12 billion a month spending bill in 
Iraq, and closing outrageous tax loopholes than enable tax dodgers to 
use offshore tax havens to avoid payment of taxes in the range of $100 
billion each year.

We can fight back against exorbitantly high energy prices. But it 
will take all our energy--and determination--to do it.