---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `0fa82fc90a98233c3d187c222cf963c0`
`Mr. McCAIN — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to express opposition to the 
nomination of General George Casey to be the next Chief of Staff of the 
Army.

I admire General Casey's patriotism and his long service to our 
country. I have concluded, based on his role as commander of the 
multinational forces in Iraq, that I cannot support his nomination.

Let me first make clear that General Casey has had a long and 
distinguished career in the U.S. Army and is deserving of the utmost 
respect and gratitude for the contributions he has made to this 
Nation's defense over his long career. At his nomination hearing on 
February 1, I stated my appreciation to him and his family for their 
extraordinary service and personal sacrifice, as well as the support 
they have provided to the men and women in uniform and their families. 
I emphasized


then, and I reiterate today, I do not in any way question General 
Casey's honor, patriotism or service to America, nor do I question his 
sincere desire to continue serving the Army.

At this critical moment in our history, however, with the obvious--
obvious--lack of success in achieving our goals in Iraq, this 
nomination should bear unusual weight in our deliberations. All of the 
Armed Services, and particularly our ground forces, are undergoing 
difficult changes to adjust to the global war on terror. The next Chief 
of Staff of the Army will be faced with enormous challenges in matters 
relating to recruiting, training, and retention of soldiers, the 
continuing organizing of the Army, and requirements for the procurement 
of weapon systems. The next Chief of Staff must be able to evaluate 
ongoing strategy and be able to react with sound advice when unforeseen 
challenges are encountered. Perhaps most importantly, the next Chief of 
Staff must be unconstrained in evaluating the past while giving advice 
for the future.

I have questioned in the past, and question today, a number of the 
decisions and judgments that General Casey has made over the past 2/1/
2/ years. During that time, conditions in Iraq have grown remarkably 
and progressively worse, and the situation now can best be described as 
dire and deteriorating. I regret that our window of opportunity to 
reverse momentum may be closing.

The bombing at the Golden Mosque in Samarra last February sparked 
sectarian violence throughout Iraq and in Baghdad, in particular. Yet 
in the face of this dramatic change in the Iraqi security environment, 
our military strategy--and I emphasize military strategy--remained 
essentially unchanged. Instead of conducting a traditional insurgency 
campaign, our troops focused on training and equipping Iraqis, hoping, 
in vain, that they could do the job. After repeated elections and 
political events demonstrated that the democratic process would not, on 
its own, bring down the level of violence, our troops did not begin 
focusing on protecting the population. Instead, the coalition and Iraqi 
forces launched Operation Together Forward in June 2006. This 
operation, aimed at securing Baghdad, failed. Yet the coalition 
launched Operation Together Forward II in August in a very similar 
fashion. The result, predictably, was a similar failure.

I am not going to go over the many times I complained about a failed 
strategy. A number of times I asked our leaders, both civilian and 
military, why they were continuing to pursue this failed strategy. I 
continued to give speeches denouncing this strategy and predicted we 
would end up in the dire circumstances we are in today. It is all a 
matter of responsibility--a matter of responsibility.

General Casey, more than any other individual, has been the architect 
of U.S. military strategy in Iraq over the last 2 years. During this 
time, I fear he consistently presented unrealistically rosy, optimistic 
assessments of the situation in Iraq. For example, in December 2004, 
General Casey stated at a Pentagon press conference:




 My view of winning is that we are broadly on track to 


 accomplishing our objectives, with Iraqi security forces that 


 are capable of maintaining domestic order and denying Iraq as 


 a safe haven for terrorists. And I believe we are on track to 


 get there by December of 2005.


I repeat that:




 I believe we are on track to get there by December of 2005.


Almost a year later, in September of 2005, General Casey repeated:




 We have a strategy and a plan for success in Iraq, and we 


 are broadly on track in achieving our goals.


Last October of 2006, he stated, before the Armed Services Committee, 
I believe:




 The idea that the country is aflame in sectarian violence 


 is just not right. General Casey said: I do not subscribe to 


 the civil war idea.


Mr. President, we have hearings to try to get an honest, unvarnished 
opinion of how our Armed Forces are doing, what their needs are, what 
their missions are, and of course because we are in a war, what is 
happening in Iraq. We are not on the ground there. We visit frequently, 
but we rely to a large degree, obviously, on the judgment and the 
recommendations and the evaluations of our military leaders. This is 
the opening statement of GEN George W. Casey before the Armed Services 
Committee on 23 June of 2005:




 Thank you, Mr. Chairman . . .


Remember, this is 23 June 2005.




 . . . In the past year, the Iraqis, supported by the 


 coalition, have established an interim government, 


 neutralized the Shia insurgency, eliminated terrorist and 


 insurgent safe havens across Iraq, mobilized their security 


 forces to confront the insurgency . . .


How could he possibly give that kind of assessment? Senator Levin 
says, well, we should have put pressure on the Iraqis. Well, maybe we 
should have put pressure on the Iraqis, but it was pretty obvious to 
even the most uninitiated that the Iraqis weren't performing. They 
weren't performing.

In his nomination hearing last Thursday, I asked General Casey about 
these and other statements he has made, both publicly and privately, 
that seem entirely at odds with the situation as most observers find 
it. I noted, for example, that in recent days, the Secretary of 
Defense, General Pace, and Admiral Fallon, the new head of Central 
Command, have all stated that the United States is not winning in Iraq 
and that we have had a failed strategy. These were clear-cut, realistic 
statements. But General Casey disagreed, saying I do not agree that we 
have a failed policy. I do not believe that the current policy has 
failed.

He may be the only person in America who believes that. This is a 
judgment issue, not an honor issue. Of course, the civilian leadership 
is responsible. I believe that the former Secretary of Defense will go 
down in history with Robert Strange McNamara. But military leaders are 
also responsible. That is why we give them positions of responsibility 
because we place in their trust our most precious asset: American 
blood.

During his own nomination hearing on January 23, Lieutenant General 
Petraeus stated that five additional brigades were required to 
implement the President's new military strategy and that he could not 
accomplish his mission if he didn't have these additional troops. I, 
for one, worry that five brigades may still be insufficient to 
accomplish all we are asking our troops to do in Iraq and would prefer 
that we are on the side of too many troops rather than too few, as has 
been the case in the past.

General Casey, however, confounding the experts, said in his hearing:




 We do need an additional two brigades to implement that 


 plan.


Not five, not more than five, but just two.

General Casey said the additional three brigades the Department will 
send ''merely gives General Petraeus great flexibility.''

Remember, we are putting this person, who still doesn't believe we 
need five brigades, in the position to be the one who is implementing 
the policy. Given this and other judgments, I don't see in this nominee 
an accurate assessment of the situation in Iraq or what is required to 
avoid catastrophe there.

My colleague from Michigan says, well, it is all the civilian 
commanders' fault. I will put plenty of blame on the civilian 
commanders and I have for many years, but somehow to absolve the 
military commander on the ground there, conducting the operations, of 
any responsibility flies in the face of everything I ever learned in my 
lifetime of involvement with the military.

Recently, I noticed in the paper there was a submarine with four 
sailors who were washed overboard. I believe they were later rescued. 
The commander of the submarine was relieved. I still remember in my 
earliest youth, when the captain was asleep in the cabin and the USS 
Missouri ran aground in the mudflats someplace south of here, he was 
relieved that day of his command.

We put people in positions of responsibility and hold them 
responsible and we try to reward them as much as we can when they 
succeed, with the approval of a grateful nation. But we also hold them 
responsible for failure.

My friend from Michigan and I have a very different view of the 
responsibilities of commanders in the field, which is why, during World 
War II and other wars, we have relieved commanders in the field because 
they were not accomplishing the mission and, if they didn't like the 
mission, they didn't speak up to get the mission changed, and if they 
embraced a failed mission, then they were held even more responsible.



I would go on. I want to emphasize, again, what General Casey said in 
the hearings the other day. Senator Levin said:





. . . even he came to the point, after all these years, of 


 not having what everybody wanted, which is success in Iraq. 


 He finally described that mistakes were made. And then he 


 said, ''Yes, one could define that, doing what we're doing, 


 as maybe a slow failure.''


In other words, Senator Levin was asking General Casey if what has 
happened in Iraq was a ''slow failure,'' as stated by the President of 
the United States. General Casey:




 I didn't--I actually don't see it as slow failure. I 


 actually see it as slow progress.


In the last 4 weeks I believe we have had five helicopters shot down. 
Casualties have spiked to a very high level. I saw in one of the 
newspapers this morning that over the past 3-month period they have 
been perhaps as high or the highest of any time in the war. And we are 
in a situation of slow progress?

Judgment. Judgment. Judgment. We expect people who are placed in 
positions of responsibility to exercise good judgment.

There is a lot I could say in response to the statement of my friend 
from Michigan concerning no responsibility whatsoever for the failures 
in the hands of the commander on the ground in Iraq. I mean, on its 
face it is a rather unusual interpretation of the responsibility we 
give to our commanders on the ground. Of course the ultimate 
responsibility rests with civilian leadership. Of course it does. That 
is how our democracy is shaped. But we don't absolve anybody in the 
chain of command, civilian or military, for the responsibility for 
failure and it is widely believed by everyone, perhaps with the 
exception of General Casey, that the policy in Iraq is a failure and 
that is why we are trying a new strategy in hopes that we prevail in 
very difficult conditions. There is an old saw about those who ignore 
the lessons of history are doomed to repeat them. During the Vietnam 
war there was failure. General Westmoreland, then head of forces in 
Vietnam, was brought back and made Chief of Staff of the Army even 
though our policy and strategy in Vietnam had failed. Ask anyone who 
was a young officer in those days in the United States Army or Marine 
Corps. It was a blow to their morale because they were held responsible 
for their performance on the field of battle. We are holding our men 
and women, both officer and enlisted, responsible for their behavior on 
the field of battle, as to whether they succeed or fail. But now, in 
this particular instance, a failed commander is now, again, 
unfortunately, being promoted to a greater position of responsibility. 
We are, again, repeating the lessons of history because we ignore them.

I intend to vote against the nomination of General Casey and I hope 
my colleagues will as well. I say that with all due respect to the 
honorable service of him and his family to this Nation. It has nothing 
to do with honorable service. It has everything to do with judgment and 
positions of responsibility. Just as Abraham Lincoln held generals 
responsible for performance on the battlefield, so today we should hold 
commanders responsible for performance on the battlefield.

I yield the floor.