---
---

# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `0fb33e410322dab1385497730905bf4f`
`Mr. KINGSTON — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Kentucky for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, let's just say that the critics of the war, and I don't 
mean the Members of the House, but the critics in the general public 
who often say ''Bush lied'' and put up posters to that effect and they 
bring in Halliburton and Blackwater and bumper stickers that say ''No 
War for Oil,'' let's say all that is true, absolutely true, that 
everything was a trick to get us there, and just say we can agree with 
that, and Hillary Clinton and John Kerry never made the statements that 
Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, which, of course, they 
did make those statements.

But if all that was the case, regardless, we are there and we are 
there now.

I met with the Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq today, and he said, in 
fact, the surge is working. And maybe he has a view that might be 
suspect by some. But I have also spent a lot of time this week looking 
at a report of indexes in Iraq put out by the Brookings Institute, 
which, as you know, is left of center. But they track the number of 
civilian deaths, the number of IED attacks. They track the number of 
newspapers and radios, economic and political progress. They track the 
benchmarks, revenue sharing, oil sharing, and elections and so forth. 
And in that there is a glimmer of hope that is important to know that 
there is some progress that is being made.

But I think between the Brookings Institute and the Prime Minister's 
report, there is a very bleak picture; but it is a picture nonetheless 
that progress is being made.

If you pass this legislation today, you wouldn't just erode that 
progress. You would sign a death sentence to people like this Prime 
Minister and his family. Now, I agree that the Republican Party 
probably lost the majority in the House because of the war as much as 
anything else, but for us that is just politics. It is a political 
death. For the people over there that we are helping, this is real 
death. What would happen to this Deputy Prime Minister if we pulled 
out, and what would happen to all the other Iraqis who have been there 
trying to take a step forward as Sunnis, as Shiites, as Kurds, trying 
to work together in a cooperative agreement? Do the proponents of this 
bill believe that Iraq would suddenly say to them, Okay, you all can go 
home; we are going to switch governments? If this passed, there would 
be more chaos and a civil war that we have never seen before in the 
Middle East, and it would spill over to other countries in the Middle 
East.

One of the things the Prime Minister said that Americans have failed 
to understand is there is a cultural shift going on in the Middle East 
right now, and it is not unique to Iraq, and that is that al Qaeda is 
becoming a mainstream group. Al Qaeda and an Islamic radical 
fundamentalist movement with sights on the West is growing.

If we withdraw from Iraq, it is victory to them. A defeat means it is 
not just going to stay in Iraq, but the momentum probably would go to 
Israel next. It would probably encourage the Iranians to get nuclear. 
Saudi Arabia would follow suit. They would need to have nuclear 
weapons, and Jordan. The good, the bad, and the ugly in the Middle East 
would happen.

The previous speaker said the troops did win the war. I agree. But we 
have not finished the war. We should vote this down and give Petraeus 
time, which is very much needed.