# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `0fbe7f053d41662cd1c5dc3979d33d14`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Chairman, today I voted for both the 
Congressional Black Caucus and the Progressive Caucus alternatives to 
the budget resolution, in addition to voting for the House Democratic 
Budget resolution. I believe all three of these proposals have a great 
deal of merit.

The Congressional Black Caucus's alternative provides high levels of 
funding for important national health initiatives, including increasing 
funding for the State Children's Health Insurance Program by $10 
billion and increasing funding for veteran's benefits and services by 
$3.4 billion over the amounts provided by the House Democratic 
resolution. Importantly, the Congressional Black Caucus's alternative 
provides an increase over the House Democratic resolution in foreign 
aid spending by an additional $3.1 billion--providing much needed funds 
to fight AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. The Progressive Caucus's 
alternative also showcased wise policy choices; it also would have 
provided increased funding for the State Children's Health Insurance 
Program and would have invested in America's future by funding 
educational opportunities, job training programs, and the Individuals 
with Disabilities Education Act. In addition, the Progressive Caucus's 
alternative reflected one of my highest priorities, which was to strip 
funding from obsolete Cold War era weapons programs that divert 
precious resources away from America's actual security interests, and 
its budget projections assumed a complete withdrawal from the Iraqi 
Civil War.

I was also proud to help craft and vote for the House Democratic 
Budget resolution, however, because it provides for increased veterans 
benefits and services, increased educational benefits, increased 
environmental initiatives, and leads to a budget surplus by 2012. In 
sum, it represents a reasonable balance of opportunities and it does so 
within our means--unlike the Republican proposals. A critical aspect of 
the House Democratic Budget resolution is its provisioning of reserve 
funds that enable this Congress to begin repairing the damage done by 
the Republicans to our Nation's fiscal stability by fixing the 
alternative minimum tax--a ''stealth tax'' on millions of middle class 
taxpayers--and preserving tax cuts for the middle class. I voted to 
express my support for the ideas contained in Congressional Black 
Caucus's and the Progressive Caucus's budgets, but I also voted to 
support the House Democratic Budget resolution because it provides a 
reasoned blueprint for the fiscal decisions facing this country.