---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `0fc2347966ab9e3c8a525497e8f72de5`
`Mrs. BOXER — 24 September 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. What everyone will be able to read is the independent 
review we now have in place in the bill that is truly independent, done 
by the National Academy of Sciences, which includes safety assurance 
reviews, mitigation, planning principles and guidelines, watershed-
based planning, levee safety, and other program improvements, including 
expediting the process for deauthorizing the unconstructed backlog of 
projects. Rather than get into a big argument, to me it is such a 
positive day today.

I see the Senator from Virginia coming to say a few words.

This is a very important day. We are struggling in the Senate to work 
together. The war in Iraq has torn us apart. It is very hard. But on 
this matter of building an infrastructure and making sure it works, we 
are as one. This conference report has the support of my ranking 
member, Senator Inhofe, the entire Environment and Public Works 
Committee. It is important to note that the conference report was 
signed by every conferee from both Chambers. The conference report was 
signed by every conferee, Republican, Democratic, Independent, as they 
may be, in both Chambers. The conference report has already received an 
overwhelming vote in the House: 381 in favor; 40 opposed. Imagine what 
a wonderful message that is that we can work together.

I also say for the record that this conference report fully complies 
with the rules of the Senate as amended by S. 1, the Honest Leadership 
and Open Government Act of 2007. Under the requirements of new rule 
XLIV, I certify that each congressionally directed spending item in the 
conference report and the name of each Senator who submitted a request 
to the committee for that item has been identified through a chart that 
has been available on the committee Web site at least 48 hours prior to 
the vote on this conference report. So we have been faithful as we must 
be to the new rule XLIV on our ethics, where you can see what every 
Senator requested and a certification that in fact there is no conflict 
of interest, no pecuniary interest on the part of the Senator or any 
member of the immediate family. This is truly a bipartisan bill.

I am going to make a unanimous consent request that at the conclusion 
of my 10 minutes, Senator Cardin be recognized for up to 10 minutes and 
that then Senator Warner be recognized.