# HONORING CHARLIE WILSON
## `0fc79543278a8d6942461d890ffbcf92`
`Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas — 10 March 2010`

---


Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
celebrate the life and honor the accomplishments of Congressman Charlie 
Wilson who passed away on February 10, 2010.

Charlie Wilson was a remarkable Congressman, and in his time in the 
U.S. House of Representatives, he worked diligently for his 
constituents in East Texas. During his tenure in the House, he gained a 
seat on the House Appropriations Committee and through his position on 
the Subcommittee on Defense, he helped to fund the Afghan Mujahideen 
during the Soviet War in Afghanistan. Additionally, his support for 
progressive politics led him to be an advocate for the Equal Rights 
Amendment, a minimum wage bill, and Medicaid.

All of these actions have garnered Congressman Wilson a place in the 
history books, but it was his personality that earned him a place in 
the hearts of so many people across Texas. When everything was said and 
done, we all knew that his deepest concern was for the people of his 
district in East Texas, and as a fellow Texas Democrat, I am privileged 
to have served with him. His love for life will reverberate through the 
halls of Congress for years to come, and he will be truly missed by his 
fellow Texans, and especially me.

Mr. Speaker, Texas has lost a great leader and legislator with the 
passing of Congressman Wilson, and I ask my fellow colleagues to join 
me today in honoring his memory.
