# None
## `0fca34ed0d9f5ed436a94722f391bac8`
`Mr. LATTA â€” 28 May 2010`

---


Mr. LATTA. Madam Speaker, it is with a heavy heart that I rise to pay 
special tribute to a military hero from Ohio's Fifth Congressional 
District. United States Army LTC Thomas P. Belkofer, 44, of Perrysburg, 
Ohio, lost his life in combat on May 18, 2010 as a result of wounds 
sustained in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. Lieutenant Colonel 
Belkofer was assigned to the headquarters of the 10th Mountain Division 
out of Fort Drum, New York. He is survived by his dear wife Margaret, 
and their daughters Alyssa and Ashley.

An individual dedicated to giving his all in everything, Thomas 
Belkofer was a determined athlete at his alma mater, Rossford High 
School, where he graduated in 1983. Thomas served in the Ohio Army 
National Guard, and in the Reserve Officer Training Corps, ROTC, in 
college. In 1992, Thomas received his Bachelor's Degree from Bowling 
Green State University in Architecture and Environmental Design. It was 
this same year he married his college sweetheart, Margaret Maness, and 
both were commissioned in the United States Army. Lieutenant Colonel 
Belkofer earned his Masters in Business Administration degree from 
Syracuse University during his active duty service.

A committed Army officer, Lieutenant Colonel Belkofer served 18 years 
at various military assignments, including the bases in Fort Hood, 
Texas; Fort Carson, Colorado; Fort George G. Meade in Maryland; The 
Pentagon; a 13-month deployment to Afghanistan; Vincenza, Italy; and 
Fort Drum, New York. During his first deployment in Afghanistan, 
Lieutenant Colonel Belkofer assisted with the establishment of a 
financial infrastructure for Afghan government employees, many of them 
soldiers. Lieutenant Colonel Belkofer's life and accomplishments 
reflect his commitment to his country and the protection of its 
freedoms.

In addition to his various assignments that have taken Lieutenant 
Colonel Belkofer all over the world, he received many badges, medals, 
and ribbons. These include the Overseas Service Bar, Army Staff 
Identification Badge, Air Assault Badge, Parachutist Badge, Combat 
Action Badge, Army Joint Meritorious Award, NATO Medal, Overseas 
Service Ribbon, Army Service Ribbon, Humanitarian Service Medal, Global 
War on Terrorism Service Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal (with


the Bronze Service Star), Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, National 
Defense Service Medal, Army Reserve Components Achievement Medal, Army 
Achievement Medal, Army Commendation Medal, Meritorious Service Medal, 
Defense Meritorious Service Medal, Purple Heart Medal, Bronze Star 
Medal, and the Legion of Merit Medal.

Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing the life 
and selfless service of Lieutenant Colonel Thomas P. Belkofer. We stand 
with his family and loved ones in mourning the loss of America's 
finest, and remain forever grateful for his sacrifice toward the peace 
and security of our nation.
