---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3159, ENSURING MILITARY READINESS  THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `0fcbd3d4cb2688f7a735f44d90ceca2f`
`Mr. DREIER — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I would like to thank my very good friend from Rochester, New York 
(Ms. Slaughter), the very distinguished Chair of the Committee on 
Rules, for yielding me this time. I am compelled to rise in the 
strongest possible opposition to this rule and the underlying 
legislation. Once again, the Democratic majority is running scared from 
openness and transparency because they know that their policies cannot 
withstand any scrutiny. They have shut off all meaningful debate, 
amendments and alternatives.

Mr. Speaker, I will say that no matter how intense, no matter how 
bitter, no matter how hate-filled the vitriol is that comes towards us, 
I will continue to strive to work in a bipartisan way to deal with this 
very important issue and other issues as well.

I think we evidenced that last night when we offered an amendment in 
the Rules Committee that would have allowed the Members of this body to 
replace this proposal with one that actually enjoys strong, bipartisan 
support. I am referring, of course, to the Iraq Study Group 
recommendations, the so-called Baker-Hamilton Commission.

This group spent literally months, Democrats and Republicans 
together. A former Member of this house as the Democratic leader, the 
former Secretary of State, James Baker, as the Republican leader, and 
an equal number of Republicans and an equal number of Democrats came up 
with bipartisan recommendations as to how we, as a Nation, could move 
forward.

Knowing that this sound and very responsible policy would very easily 
trump the inferior proposal that my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle are hoping to move on the floor today, they took the only route 
that they seem to know, and they have a great deal of experience at 
this, Mr. Speaker. They just shut down the process completely.

They seemed to know, Mr. Speaker, that, unfortunately, this very 
thoughtful work product, which is not supported by everyone, but it 
enjoys strong bipartisan support. Again, our former colleague, the very 
respected former Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs it is now 
called, it was the International Relations Committee and Foreign 
Affairs Committee before that, Mr. Hamilton, and the highly regarded 
Secretary of State, James Baker, came up with this package.

And what is it our colleagues did? With a very passionate statement 
made by our friend from Virginia, my classmate, Mr. Frank Wolf, who was 
really the progenitor of this Iraq Study Group, working with a wide 
range of people to come up with just the establishment of the group, 
and now this work product has come forward, heralded by people all 
across this country, and what is it that they have done? They have 
chosen to take this inferior proposal and say, we are not going to even 
allow consideration of the Iraq Study Group.

Now, having precluded any real debate, they have nothing to fall back 
on but really cheap political ploys. The announcement was made several 
weeks ago that every single week leading up to Congress' adjournment 
for the month of August, we would have votes on Iraq.

One of the Democratic majority's favorite gimmicks is to give their 
ill-conceived bills grand-sounding names and shroud them in warm, fuzzy 
ideas that no one could possibly oppose.

Earlier this week, they rammed through the House is a massive 
giveaway to trial lawyers. And what was it called? The anti-
discrimination bill.

Just yesterday, we considered a bill that slashes Medicare coverage 
for millions. What was it called, Mr. Speaker? The Children's Health 
and Medicare Protection Act. The audacity of cutting Medicare with a 
bill that has ''Medicare protection'' right in the title is, to me, 
absolutely staggering.

Now, Mr. Speaker, I am proud that we, as Republicans, worked to 
address important issues with prudence and deliberation, issues that 
affect the quality of life and standard of living for all Americans. 
Unfortunately, my colleagues on the other side, we will witness it in 
just a few minutes once again, they resort to demagoguery and name 
calling and all kinds of other vitriol.

When we refuse to be suckered by their slipshod efforts and poor 
policies, they accuse us of being pro-discrimination, or anti-
children's health, or any other awful-sounding label that they can come 
up with. They will make some great and fascinating political ads. As 
this season goes on, we will see some of them on YouTube, I am sure, 
and other places. And if you look at these votes on discrimination and 
on the issue of Medicare and children's healthcare, obviously, we will 
be hearing a lot about the things that have been done here on the House 
floor during the campaign season, which obviously is under way right 
now.

They will no doubt continue with this tired approach here today. We 
are going to hear about how the underlying bill before us today is 
about ''troop welfare.'' We are going to hear about the ''terrible 
strain'' the war in Iraq has put on the members of our Armed Forces and 
their families.

I want to make sure it is absolutely clear that we are all, all, very 
concerned, Mr. Speaker, about the welfare of our troops. It is a 
bipartisan concern, and anyone who would argue that we are somehow not 
concerned about the welfare of our troops is barking up the wrong tree. 
We see with sobering clarity, Mr. Speaker, the magnitude the impact the 
war has on their families. No American deserves more support than those 
who put their lives on the line to protect each and every one of us, 
and no one is more determined to fulfill our commitment to these men 
and women than my Republican colleagues and I are.

That is precisely, precisely, Mr. Speaker, why I stand in opposition 
to both this rule and the underlying legislation. The Democratic 
majority can slap any old bill together and say it promotes troop 
welfare. But, Mr. Speaker, that does not make it so. And they can slap 
any old bill together and


accuse its opponents of undermining troop welfare. But that doesn't 
make it so.

The reality is that this bill undermines our military leadership, who 
are already committed to the welfare of our troops and their families. 
And to imply in any way that our Nation's civilian and military 
leadership is not committed to the welfare of our troops and their 
families is again a very specious argument.

The reality is that this bill undermines our military leadership who 
are committed to the troops; and, in fact, it opens up the potential to 
force troops to stay in the field longer, handle missions for which 
they are not prepared, and ultimately create greater risks for our men 
and women who are in harm's way.

Mr. Speaker, our Armed Forces are already working toward the goal of 
ensuring that every servicemember spends 2 years at home after each 
year in the field, and that Reservists get 5 years at home after each 1 
year of deployment.

Mr. Speaker, the Marine Corps is already providing what this bill 
would mandate, time at home at least equal to time deployed. The 
Commandant of the Marine Corps must approve any deviation from this 
policy.

Let me say once again, Mr. Speaker, I don't understand why it is that 
we are here dealing with this issue when we could in fact pass the 
recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. We instead are doing something 
that the Marine Corps is doing right now. Again, the Commandant of the 
Marine Corps would have to approve any deviation from this policy.

What this bill does is to remove any flexibility that allows our 
military leaders to make deployment decisions that best provide for 
both troop welfare and, Mr. Speaker, something that we never hear 
discussed from our colleagues on the other side the aisle, and that is 
mission completion, completing our mission, making sure that we have 
success and victory. It adds another layer of bureaucratic red tape. 
Ironically, and tragically, it could actually force our commanders in 
the field to extend deployments and force our troops to take on 
missions for which they are not fully prepared.

Mr. Speaker, preventing our commanders from being able to task each 
unit to take on the mission for which it is best prepared and best 
trained would needlessly risk the lives of our troops.

I know that we all want the ultimate desire of every member of our 
armed services: that they be speedily and, as I said a moment ago, 
victoriously returned to the loving arms of their families and the 
accolades of a grateful Nation. But, Mr. Speaker, this bill is not, 
this bill is not the way to ensure that.

The Democratic majority can keep playing these games. They can 
continue to claim that this bill will improve the quality of life of 
our troops and their families. They can continue to accuse its 
opponents of callousness and indifference to servicemen and 
servicewomen. But I don't believe the American people will be fooled, 
Mr. Speaker. They are quite capable of seeing past clever bill titles 
and phony rhetoric.

This Democratic majority has got to learn that it takes more than 
demagoguery to lead this body and to lead this country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this rule, as well as the 
underlying legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.