# OPPOSE THE SECOND CHANCE ACT
## `0fda1b45c16b8df7f8f275f89d3c25b1`
`Mr. CARTER — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. I want to expand a little bit on what my good friend from 
Tennessee was talking about.

I happen to be blessed to have Fort Hood, Texas, in my district, 
which is the only division 2 post in America. It is the largest 
gathering of military forces on Earth, and we have experienced already, 
since I have been in Congress, a delay on getting a supplemental to the 
post.

Now, I think the American people need to know, and I would hope my 
colleagues in Congress would know, that today, as we speak, there are 
between 4- and 5,000 American soldiers going door-to-door in Baghdad 
and looking for three soldiers. Why is that? Why that concentration of 
effort?

Because the United States Army and the United States Marine Corps and 
every one of our services, they value every human life that they have. 
They care about their soldiers, and they are showing it by 24/7 putting 
their lives on the line looking for these guys, because they know what 
happens to these prisoners, what has happened in the past, people who 
were castrated and skinned alive, and their throats cut, and left on 
the side of the road dead with bombs strapped to their bodies. So they 
care about those soldiers.

This issue goes right down to what happens at home, when the 
supplemental money that provides the bullets, ammunition, 
transportation, vehicles for our soldiers in harm's way, when this 
Congress fails to meet its obligation to those brave men and women. By 
passing a supplemental, what does the Army do? Do they let the guys in 
the war suffer the consequences? No.

What happens is they look into the pocketbooks back home, and they 
have to cut the soldiers that are back in Texas or back in Tennessee or 
back in one of the other fine States in this union, they have to reduce 
what they have available for training, for services on their post.

You know, last year, when we didn't get the supplemental done until 
August, I can tell you that the people of Killeen, where Fort Hood is 
located, the people on the post, were talking about will we have enough 
money to pay the bills, the kinds of bills that American citizens 
understand, light bills, water bills, service bills, cutting the grass.

Are we going to be able to provide that at this post because the 
money, first, goes to the war fighters. They don't leave American 
soldiers in harm's way. So they cut their own pocketbooks.

Are we going to be able to pay the people we have contracted with to 
provide services? These issues are facing our soldiers today, because 
of the 100-day delay in providing this supplemental for our soldiers.

So it's important to know that our Army will not leave those guys 
without the goods that they need, and they will cut whatever they have 
to at home much.

But what does that mean to the next round of people that may have to 
go back to that war or any war? Also, you have at risk the possibility 
of cutting the training budgets for these soldiers, and what makes the 
American fighting man so superior to anybody on Earth? He is the best-
trained soldier that ever took to the field. But if you cut the 
training bills in order to provide bullets for the guys in harm's way, 
then the training has to sacrifice. We can't get to that point. It is 
critical that we get a supplement passed from the standpoint of the 
American soldier.

Finally, today, we heard all rhetoric on this great, by the way, 
great bill


that we just passed on defense authorization. We are providing funds 
for the soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan, yes, in 2008.

But what are we going to do about it now? I think this is something 
that really has to be addressed because we are harming the best 
military on earth.