---
---

# FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2010 AND 2011
## `1003ff3ddb12436d6cf806fe606691ca`
`Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin — 10 June 2009`

---


Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 3 minutes.

Mr. Chairman, I rise today to urge a ''yes'' vote on my amendment to 
the Foreign Relations Authorization Act. This is a time of 
unprecedented change in our outreach efforts to our global neighbors, 
and this authorization will help guide that path for the upcoming year 
and, therefore, I would like to really thank the committee for their 
hard work. And I would also like to thank my very good friend, 
Congresswoman Maloney of New York, for being a leader and steadfast 
advocate for the women of Afghanistan.

It is just so difficult to express the hurdles that face Afghan women 
and girls. There are just few words to describe the abhorrent 
conditions that assault these women and girls on a daily basis, and 
there are few experiences in our own lives that compare to their 
constant struggle for survival and freedom.

Afghanistan has one of the highest rates of maternal mortality in the 
world. One in eight Afghan women die due to pregnancy-related 
complications every year. That's one woman every 30 minutes.

After years of brutal Taliban rule that allowed few rights for women, 
approximately 90 percent of their female population is illiterate.

There are over 50,000 widows in the country, many of whom lack 
substantive means to support themselves or their female children, who 
lack access to health care, to education, to employment, to shelter, 
and on and on and on.

The United States and international aid organizations have provided 
billions of dollars to rebuild the country and to promote the basic and 
fundamental human rights of the Afghan people.

More importantly, though, we have asked our own people to sacrifice 
our sons and daughters, our citizens, for this cause. Our brave men and 
women serving in Afghanistan are there to protect the American people, 
but they are also there to reach out to the people in this war-torn 
country. And that is why, Mr. Chairman, I have offered this particular 
amendment.

Earlier this year the Afghan Government moved a measure that would 
severely suppress the rights of this country's Shiite women and girls. 
This measure would further restrict their free mobility and actually 
legalizes marital rape. It does not condemn the marrying of minors and, 
instead, it appears to promote it.

This legislation ties a woman's legal financial stability and well-
being to a man, and demands that a woman submit sexually to her husband 
in order to be privy to any sort of protection.

I see proposals like this in-depth reporting on multiple news media 
outlets highlighting the struggles that single women, girls, widows, 
married women face in Afghanistan.

Now, I understand that there are cultural differences, and I 
understand that culture and society in the Middle East will never look 
like that in the United States.