# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `1009768c159a82361947a3519bdb53a8`
`Mr. SCOTT of Virginia — 8 May 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.

I think it's important to put up a chart so we will know who's saying 
what about fiscal responsibility, because this chart shows what 
happened in the nineties when, with President Clinton's veto vetoing 
Republican bills after the Democrats set the budget off in the right 
direction, we were able to create a surplus that when this 
administration came in in 2001, we had a projected $5.5 trillion 
surplus. As a result of Republican initiatives, that surplus looks like 
it's going to come in, a 10-year surplus, at about a $3 trillion 
deficit, a swing of $8.5 trillion. And to put that in perspective, 
we've spent about $500 billion in Iraq; $8.5 trillion deterioration of 
the budget, $500 billion in Iraq, that is $0.5 trillion; $8.5 trillion 
deterioration, $0.5 trillion attributable to the war. And the 
Democratic budget, again, responsibly digs us out of this mess.

The important thing to note is, we talk about 9/11. We were broke. We 
spent the surplus, other than Social Security and Medicare, before 9/
11. So you can't blame 9/11 for the fiscal decline that has happened 
here.

This budget is responsible. It shows how we can dig ourselves out. 
Unfortunately, we have, first of all, no leadership from the White 
House. Even the Republican budget pretty much ignores the President's 
budget. The President's budget had us in a ditch, never coming into 
surplus. At least the Republican budget has us coming out of the 
deficit and into surplus in 2012, but it does it in such a way that is 
not responsible and not predictable.

The Republicans' budget assumes that we're going to whack about $250 
billion out of Medicare and Medicaid, about $250 billion cut out of 
health care. This is at a time when doctors are telling us now that 
they can't absorb the cuts. We are having situations now when States 
are not paying dentists enough for dentists to even take Medicaid. $250 
billion cut. It's not going to happen. We're not going to go into 
surplus under the Republican budget.

The main factor that we have to look at is, who's talking? The 
Democrats dug us out of the ditch; Republicans put us back in the 
ditch; and the Democrats are digging us out again with a responsible 
budget. The Republicans have a budget that is so draconian on health 
care that 40 Republicans even voted against the Republican budget.



And so we have a responsible plan. Let's stick with the responsible 
plan, dig us out of the mess again, and have fiscal responsibility.