# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `1017a118a39536fb5a67deae112ede86`
`Mr. McNERNEY — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. McNERNEY. Mr. Speaker, I applaud the chairman and the ranking 
member of the Veterans Committee and all members of the Veterans 
Committee for working together to provide our veterans with the 
services that they need.

The Veterans Administration health care system does, in most cases, 
provide outstanding health care to our Nation's veterans. Yet, as the 
brave men and women from our Armed Forces return home from Iraq and 
Afghanistan, we are seeing additional demands already being placed on 
the VA. Those demands include addressing the hallmark injuries of these 
conflicts, post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury.

These conditions are often the root causes behind the large numbers 
of soldiers who have attempted or contemplated suicide. The Defense 
Department estimates that 114 Iraqi and Afghanistan veterans have 
already committed suicide, and that one out of every 100 veterans has 
considered suicide. We must quickly address this problem by equipping 
the caregivers at our VA facilities nationwide with the ability to 
recognize and prevent these needless tragedies.

I strongly support H.R. 327, the Joshua Omvig Suicide Prevention Act. 
It directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to develop and implement a 
comprehensive program to reduce the incidence of suicides among 
veterans. It trains VA staff to recognize the symptoms of PTSD and 
suicidal thoughts. It monitors veterans who receive medical care in the 
VA system for suicide risk factors. It provides for suicide prevention 
counselors at each medical facility, so that when the veterans need 
help they can get it immediately. And it establishes a suicide hot line 
for veterans to call.

Our brave men and women in uniform have served this Nation with 
honor. We


owe them more than a debt of gratitude. We must also provide them with 
the support and care they need to return to a healthy and productive 
civilian life.