---
---

# TRIBUTE TO SERGEANT ALEXANDER HENRY FULLER
## `102557298b2225f8aa4ed78334c7dc4e`
`Mr. DELAHUNT — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. DELAHUNT. Madam Speaker, I rise today so that my colleagues in 
the House of Representatives can join me in honoring the life and 
service of one of America's fallen heroes, Sergeant Alexander Henry 
Fuller, who gave his life to his country while serving in Iraq. I rise 
so that the House of Representatives can join me in conveying our 
deepest condolences to his wonderful wife Stacey and to his entire 
family.

Alex died on January 25 at the age of twenty one, while serving in 
Iraq. He came from New Bedford and was raised on Cape Cod. He soon fell 
in love with Stacey and together they were married. Today Stacey is 
expecting their child. Alex had dreams of someday owning a house on 
Cape Cod, working as a police officer and raising a family.

But he was a young man with a mission. He had another priority in his 
life, to answer the call of service to his country. He loved his 
country and he loved serving in the Army, and in the 3rd Squadron, 61st 
Cavalry Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 2nd Infantry Division based 
in Fort Carson Colorado. Each and every American owes him and his 
family a great debt of gratitude. The courage he demonstrated through 
his service will always be remembered.

I wish to join with my colleagues in expressing our condolences to 
his family and friends. We hope and pray that they find peace and 
comfort during this most difficult time.

Sean Gonsalves, a reporter from the Cape Cod Times wrote a moving 
tribute that I wish to share with you.













'We Couldn't Be Prouder'














(By Sean Gonsalves)




 One had a Bible in his hand.



 The other Army officer carried the news Anastacia 


 ''Stacey'' Fuller and her husband's adopted family had been 


 losing sleep over--wondering if their hero, Army Sgt. 


 Alexander Henry Fuller, was alive.



 He was not, they were informed late Thursday night.



 Yesterday, Sgt. Fuller's 19-year-old widow still seemed 


 disoriented, as if the repercussions from the improvised 


 explosive device that killed Fuller and another member of his 


 convoy in Baghdad had reverberated across the Atlantic Ocean, 


 all the way to the Centerville home the 21-year-old soldier 


 had shared with his wife and inlaws.



 Pfc. Michael C. Balsley, 23, of Hayward, Calif., was also 


 killed in Thursday's explosion, according to the Department 


 of Defense.



 Stacey Fuller wasn't sure if her husband's remains were in 


 Maryland or Delaware. She wasn't sure when his casket would 


 be brought home to Cape, or when the funeral and burial would 


 be held.



 All she knew was that the father of her yet-unborn daughter 


 was ''fearless'' and had ''a huge heart.''



 Sitting in the showroom of her family's used-car dealership 


 on Yarmouth Road in Hyannis, Stacey Fuller rested her hands 


 on her bulging belly as the small flags lining the awning 


 outside flapped in the winter wind.



 ''He was very determined. He always said, 'I need to help 


 my Joes,' '' she recalled, explaining the love he had for the 


 Fort Carson, Colo.-based 3rd Squadron, 61st Cavalry Regiment, 


 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 2nd Infantry Division.



 ''We tried to talk him out of going because of how 


 dangerous it is, but we couldn't,'' said Fuller's mother-in-


 law, Irena Zinov.



 Fuller, who was born in New Bedford and raised in 


 Centerville, saw the Army as the best way to prepare for 


 becoming a police officer.



 Fuller's legacy was his concern for others, his uncle 


 Robert Mogavero of Millis said in a phone interview 


 yesterday.



 ''At the same time, he had a great zest for life. Some kids 


 have plans that are a little far-fetched, but his head was 


 screwed on straight. His plans were not beyond his reach,'' 


 he said.



 Mogavero described Fuller as a soldier ''dedicated to God 


 and country.'' ''As a soldier he was exemplary, and we 


 couldn't be prouder of him as a family.''



 Zach Hallet of Osterville remembered his best friend as the 


 toughest, funniest person he's known.



 ''And he believed in what he was doing. He was proud of 


 being a sergeant and he was proud of being a leader.''



 Hallet also described his fallen friend as ''fearless''--a 


 trait his wife said she'll call on in the months ahead as she 


 prepares to give birth in April.





 Besides his wife and unborn daughter, Fuller is survived by 


 his mother, Linda; a sister, Katie, and two brothers, 


 Christopher and Sean.



 The family has set up a memorial fund for the benefit of 


 his daughter.
