# None
## `103419764213dfcca9f37c17d906d785`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise to urge my colleagues to support 
the legislation before us today which was reported out of our committee 
on a 9-to-1 vote, bipartisan support.

In some sense, it is unbelievable that we are here today in 2007 
trying, against some odds at this moment, to give to the residents of 
the Capital City of the United States, the District of Columbia, the 
right to have a voting representative in the Congress of the United 
States. To me, it is unbelievable, it is palpably unjust and, in my 
opinion, a national embarrassment.

This bill, comparable to a bill that passed the House of 
Representatives--bipartisan--cosponsored by Delegate Eleanor Holmes 
Norton and Congressman Tom Davis--basically rights this grievous wrong 
by giving the District of Columbia, more than a half a million of our 
fellow Americans, a voting Member of Congress in the House of 
Representatives and to, frankly and directly, overcome concerns of the 
partisan impact of giving a House seat to the District because it tends 
to vote Democratic, and correcting another injustice, saying that the 
State of Utah, which came very close--less than 900 citizens--from 
having another seat in the Congress in the House as a result of the 
2000 census also gets a seat. So one for the District of Columbia, one 
for Utah.

The situation is this: The residents of the Capital City of the 
greatest democracy in the world do not have voting representation in 
Congress. And yet, they have to pay the taxes we adopt--this is 
taxation without representation--their budget uniquely has to be 
approved by the Congress, and their sons and daughters today are 
serving, and I add dying in disproportionate numbers, in Iraq and 
Afghanistan in the war on terrorism, and yet they do not have a voting 
representative in Congress to pass judgment on appropriations and other 
matters related to that war.

It is time to end the injustice, to end the national embarrassment 
that the citizens of this great Capital City do not have voting 
representation in Congress.

I ask all my colleagues to vote for cloture. Do not let a filibuster 
kill a voting rights act, as used to happen too often around here.

I have been honored to join as a cosponsor of this measure my dear 
friend, a great Senator, Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah.

I yield the remaining time we have to Senator Hatch.