# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `103c4eda676fd2ed1527e96ba668a8c2`
`Mr. KILDEE — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Concurrent Resolution 63, to 
stop the President's escalation of our involvement in what has now 
become the Iraqi civil war.

I voted no in 2002 when the Congress passed the resolution 
authorizing the President to invade Iraq. It was wrong to start this 
war then, and it is wrong to escalate it now.

In 2002, I had several basic questions addressed to the President, 
questions that are still valid today. I asked then, what is the nature 
and urgency of the Iraqi threat to the United States? What is the 
mission of our troops? How much international support will we have? 
Will this military operation in Iraq decrease terrorism or increase 
terrorism? And what is the exit strategy to withdraw our troops from 
Iraq?



Mr. Speaker, we now know that Saddam Hussein did not have weapons of 
mass destruction. President Bush has since publicly acknowledged that 
there was no link or connection between Saddam Hussein and the 
terrorist attacks on 9/11.

The mission of our troops seems to change and expand daily, but their 
current mission appears to be to act as threatened referees in an 
increasingly bloody civil war between the Sunni and Shiite Iraqis.

As for international support, the American taxpayer has borne the 
vast majority of the costs to the tune of hundreds of billions of 
dollars. American fighting men and women and their families have borne 
the vast majority of the deaths and injuries to Coalition troops, over 
3,100 Americans killed, 18 from my district, and over 23,000 wounded.

Even our staunchest ally, Great Britain, plans to reduce the number 
of its troops in Iraq to 4,500 by this June.

Are we safer today than we were before the invasion of Iraq? 
Declassified CIA National Intelligence Estimates indicate that the war 
in Iraq has become a primary recruitment vehicle for Islamic 
terrorists. Far from being the central front in the war on terror, as 
the President and his people say, Iraq is the incubator and training 
ground for new terrorists from around the world.

Finally, the President has never clearly stated what is our strategy 
to win in Iraq nor what is our exit strategy. ''Mission accomplished,'' 
''Bring it on,'' ''Stay the course,'' or ''We will stand down as the 
Iraqis stand up'' are slogans, not strategies.

Our generals, our diplomats, the Iraq Study Group even the White 
House, all agree there is not a military solution to the war in Iraq. 
Only a political resolution between the warring Iraqi factions could 
end the current violence.

I do not believe that adding more American troops will do anything to 
help foster that crucial political solution. In fact, it may hinder it.

Telling the Iraqi leadership and the Iraqi people that they must 
solve their own internal problems without limitless American assistance 
has a far better chance of success than continuing our current blank-
check policy.

Mr. Speaker, President Bush either did not get or did not understand 
the message the American people sent last November. Before the end of 
this year, U.S. troops should be redeployed and their efforts focused 
on support and training the Iraqi Security Forces. It is their country, 
it is their fight, and it is their future.