---
---

# None
## `103e596abbcf5760e7de89d7283df8b2`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, once again, thank you for your charts, 
sir, because we need to make sure the Members know exactly what was 
handed down from the President of the United States to this Congress 
and the work that we have cut out.

Some tough decisions are going to have to be made, Madam Speaker. 
Some millionaire may not get all of the tax break they have been 
waiting and counting on from the President of the United States. We 
have hardworking Americans out there looking for a break. We have small 
businesses out there looking for a break. Meanwhile, the President 
says, make my original thoughts permanent because I had a rubber stamp 
Congress in the 109th and 108th and so on, that did what I said do, 
continue that, and let's cut assistance to State and local governments. 
Let's cut the COPS Program. Let's cut Medicaid benefits. Let's make 
life harder for veterans as it relates to their benefits and the 
clinics that are open out there, that we just did something about in 
the continuing resolution. Let's continue that philosophy.

But for those individuals that are being driven and buying new cars 
every other year, let's continue to make life wonderful for them. And, 
by the way, let me send an escalation of more troops over to Iraq, 
where we just had a hearing just yesterday here in the House of 
Representatives that we are now getting down to the nitty gritty on 
what happened to $8 billion that no one can account for that was cash 
money. Very little of it can be accounted for, very little. Eighty 
percent can't be accounted for. Let's continue to practice that 
philosophy in Iraq.

So, Mr. Ryan, the only, I guess, comfort that I have at this moment 
is the fact that the American people voted to move in a new direction, 
Madam Speaker, and we are willing to take them in that direction. But, 
at the same time, Mr. Ryan, the philosophy of the 30-Something Working 
Group, we want to make sure that every Member understands their 
responsibility.

We have Veterans' Day coming up. We have Memorial Day coming up. We 
have a number of holidays that are recognizing the contributions of 
Americans that allowed us to salute one flag. The least that we can do 
is break it down to the point that every Member understands his or her 
responsibility in the House of Representatives.

So, if you want to be on the side of the super, super billionaires 
and millionaires, you make that choice. If you want to be on the side 
of the American people that work hard every day, to give them some sort 
of break so hopefully they can pay for tuition to make sure their 
children can make it through college, and, as Mr. Ryan said, in the 
first 100 hours, we dealt with a lot of that. We dealt with the minimum 
wage, which is now coming back from the Senate that will be over here 
in the House either today or tomorrow, or is already here. We dealt 
with the issue of being able to make a reverse about face on the 
interest rates that the previous Congress put on students and their 
families. We rolled that back.

There are a number of things that we have already put through the 
process, pay-as-you-go principles here in this House, to put this 
country on the right track.

Yes, tough decisions have to be made. But, at the same time, we have 
to be responsible, and we can't just rely on sound bites as though, 
well, that will get us past the process.

I believe that we can make it to the promised land, not through doing 
the same thing expecting different results, but having the kind of 
oversight and having the kind of foresight and watching out for these 
individuals.

Weatherization. You mentioned weatherization, Mr. Ryan, as it relates 
to keeping our most frail and poor warm during the wintertime. The 
President is asking to keep a tax cut permanent for super billionaires 
but cut weatherization assistance for a lady on fixed income in 
Detroit, Michigan.

I am just trying to understand the balance here and the priorities as 
we start to look at this. The President is asking for a cut in a number 
of the Department of Justice programs, Madam Speaker, that assist local 
sheriffs and police chiefs in combating and preventing crime. The COPS 
Program, zeroed out.

The President last week, Mr. Ryan, had an announcement come out that 
we are going to move for the maximum Pell Grant. Then the budget comes 
out, and it is the same level of what he has recommended over the last 
4 years. So, the words don't match the action.

So our job here in the House, Madam Speaker and Members, is to make 
sure that even if the President makes a commitment to the American 
people and we agree with that commitment, that we have to find some 
room in this budget, which I know that Chairman Spratt and other 
members of the Budget Committee and members of committees that have 
jurisdiction and oversight, will have some say in how we move in the 
new direction as it relates to America. So we are going to have a 
serious paradigm shift.

I see Mr. Ryan here has one of our favorite charts out right now just 
to illustrate what past budgets have done, Madam Speaker, and where it 
left this Congress in spending the majority of its money, not on the 
priority that the majority of the American people would like us to 
balance on but because of bad management.