# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `104275a168d49cb7abd90d13b1009a5e`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska â€” 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I wish to honor U.S. Navy 
Petty Officer 1st Class Joseph Adam McSween of Oak Harbor, WA.

Petty Officer McSween will be remembered as a loving husband and 
father, a dedicated friend and sailor, and a strong leader. After 
graduating from Georgia Christian High School, he received a track 
scholarship to York College in York, NE, where he would later graduate 
in 2001 with an associate degree. While there, Petty Officer McSween 
was recognized as a natural leader and participated in campus 
leadership activities. He also met and fell in love with his wife Erin 
Hammitt while they were students together. They later had two 
daughters: Lily, age 5, and Gwyneth, age 2.

On April 6, 2007, while serving near Kirkuk, Iraq, as a demolition 
specialist with the Navy Explosive Ordnance Disposal Unit 11, based at 
Whidbey Island, WA, Petty Officer McSween and two others passed away 
when a rocket hit their humvee. McSween was 26 years old. He was 
awarded the Bronze Star ''V'', Combat Distinguished Device, the Purple 
Heart, and the Combat Action Ribbon at his military service.

Adam was not a Nebraska resident, but he chose to be buried in York, 
NE. His very close friend, Petty Officer Randy Leppell, U.S. Navy, had 
this to say at the funeral: ''One thing I remember about Adam, one 
story he told was that he called back to some crazy little town called 
York, Nebraska, which I'd never heard of, and he told me he hadn't been 
to the school for a while. But the admissions officer still remembered 
his name. He said, 'This is Adam.' The Admissions Officer said 'Adam 
McSween?' He couldn't believe it. I couldn't believe it. I think it 
speaks volumes for the people of York.''

Hundreds of people from York and many other areas of Nebraska and 
surrounding States, people who never even knew a young college student 
named Adam McSween, came to his funeral and lined the streets, proudly 
displaying the American Flag as the procession made its way to Adam's 
final resting place in Greenwood Cemetery in York, NE.

In addition to his wife and two daughters, Petty Officer McSween is 
survived by his parents Bob and Florence McSween; his two brothers 
Robert and Kyle; and his sister Angela. I offer my sincere condolences 
to the family and friends of Petty Officer McSween. He made the 
ultimate and most courageous sacrifice for our Nation. I join all 
Americans in grieving the loss of this remarkable young man and know 
that Petty Officer McSween's passion for serving, his leadership, and 
his selflessness will remain a source of inspiration for us all.
