---
---

# IN RECOGNITION OF JACKSONVILLE ELKS LODGE #221
## `1044661f28c6869589515b3f89be143e`
`Mr. CRENSHAW — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. CRENSHAW. Madam Speaker, I would like to recognize the admirable 
efforts of the Jacksonville Elks Lodge #221 for the outstanding service 
they have provided our nation's veterans. In these uncertain times 
where foreign radicals continue to pose a threat to our Nation and our 
troops continue to fight this threat overseas, their contributions are 
made even more significant.

Over the past 3 years, the 352 members of Jacksonville Elks Lodge 
#221 have raised almost $42,000 and donated much needed supplies for 
our veterans. They have traveled almost 39,000 miles to veterans 
hospitals, nursing homes and private homes of veterans and have 
invested almost 2,500 hours of service to our veterans population.

Every month members of Jacksonville Elks Lodge #221 visit the 
Veterans Administration Medical Center in Lake City to volunteer their 
time for our veterans and have supported more than 100 homeless 
veterans each year through donations and goods to the City of 
Jacksonville's Homeless Veterans Stand-Down. Currently they have 
adopted four veterans whom they are assisting with shopping, groceries, 
transportation to and from medical appointments and other day-to-day 
activities. They have held luncheons and provided support for spouses 
and families of deployed service men and women and adopted units 
deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, sending them supplies and 
recreational equipment.

Taking into account their service for our veterans community, it is 
no surprise that at least three of the recent past State Veterans 
Chairpersons of the Florida State Elks Association Veterans Service 
Committee have come from this Lodge and their current Chairperson was 
selected as the Female Veterans Services Volunteer of the Year for the 
State of Florida in an award presented at the Florida State Elks 
Convention in June 2005.

It is my distinct honor to call the members of the Jacksonville Elks 
Lodge #221 my friends and neighbors and I am proud to represent them as 
their Member of Congress. On behalf of Jacksonville and our entire 
Nation, I would like to express my utmost appreciation and offer them 
our thanks for their service to our community.
