---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `1046b3597feee6ae81937f1204880512`
`Mr. CARDIN — 1 November 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, quite frankly, I don't understand the 
objections of the President of the United States to the Children's 
Health Insurance Program we are considering here today. I hope we all 
understand the importance of this program and how important it is for 
children in America to have health insurance. We know, and we have a 
lot of studies which show, that children who have health insurance are 
far more likely to be immunized against diseases, far more likely to 
have the benefits of preventive health care, are far more likely to get 
the type of health care intervention that will lead to healthier lives. 
Quite frankly, that will save us money because they are going to be 
healthier and need less health care during their lifetime. We also know 
that children who have health insurance are far more likely to have 
better attendance records at school. The list goes on and on and on. So 
it makes sense for children to have health insurance.

The legislation we are considering is aimed at working families--
working families that cannot afford the cost of health insurance. These 
are families playing according to the rules. They are doing everything 
right, but they can't afford the cost of insuring the family with 
health insurance.

A family from Baltimore came and testified before the Presiding 
Officer's committee for the reauthorization of the CHIP program. The 
mother explained that having children's health insurance--having the 
Maryland program--that mother no longer has to wake up in the morning 
and decide whether the child is sick enough to see a doctor. She 
doesn't have to worry that if her child is playing on a playground and 
gets hurt, how they will be able to afford that bill.

Our children are the innocent casualties of the failure of our 
country to have universal health coverage--universal health insurance. 
They are the innocent casualties. The bill we have before us tries to 
do something about it.

This is a bill that is not a Democratic bill or a Republican bill; it 
is a bill that has been compromised in the best sense of the 
legislative process: Democrats and Republicans working together to 
produce a bill that could be supported not just for 1 year but 
supported now for a decade. It is a bill that builds upon private 
insurance. That was important to get the consensus among Democrats and 
Republicans. It is a bill that is administered by our States; it is not 
administered in Washington. This is a program that our States 
administer. I am proud of the State of Maryland MCHIP program, the 
Maryland Children's Health Insurance Program. It is designed in 
Maryland to meet the needs of our children, and the Federal Government 
is a partner in helping to pay for the program. This is a bill that has 
been worked in the best sense of the legislative process, by Democrats 
and Republicans.

It is an affordable program. I have heard the President of the United 
States talk about the affordability. This program is affordable. First, 
as I mentioned earlier, it saves health care dollars. Children who have 
access to preventive health care are going to save us money over the 
long term in health care expenditures. Secondly, this bill is paid for. 
I know that is not always the case with legislation we pass, but this 
bill will not add a penny to the deficit. In fact, I would argue that 
this bill will actually help us in balancing the Federal budget. It is 
fully paid for by an increase in the cigarette tax, but economists tell 
us that as a result of the increase in the cigarette tax, there are 
going to be millions of people who will either stop smoking or will 
never start smoking--particularly young people who won't start smoking 
now because of the extra cost in buying a pack of cigarettes. The 
Presiding Officer and I know how much that will save in our health care 
system for someone who doesn't smoke. That is not figured into the cost 
estimates here, the savings we will have to our health care system 
because of the number of children who will never start smoking.

In Maryland, this bill will mean that Maryland will not only be able 
to continue the 100,000 children who are currently enrolled in the 
program--because if we don't pass this bill, we can't continue our 
current commitment--but will add 40,000 more children to the Maryland 
Children's Health Care Program.

That is good. We need to do that. Let me remind you that, in 
Maryland, we have 800,000 people without health insurance. That is not 
just children, that is the whole community that has no health 
insurance. Obviously, we want to reduce that number. This bill makes a 
small step in dealing with the gap we have in America where people have 
no health insurance, but it is an important step because it deals with 
children. We can certainly do that.

I wish to talk about one part of the program that, quite frankly, 
hasn't gotten a lot of attention, and it is a very important part, 
which is the reason we need a reauthorization bill. In a 
reauthorization bill, we can expand the program to deal with the needs 
in our communities. This bill covers required dental services, so all 
the children in the Children's Health Insurance Program will receive 
dental insurance coverage.

C. Everett Koop, a former Surgeon General of the United States, says,


''There is no health without oral health.'' Again, he is a former 
Surgeon General. The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry said 
dental decay is the most chronic childhood disease among children in 
the United States--five times more likely than asthma. Regarding the 
vulnerability of our children, of those children between the ages of 6 
to 8, 50 percent have tooth decay. If you are poor and live in poverty, 
you are two times more likely to have a problem with your teeth. If you 
happen to be a minority--if you are an African American, 39 percent of 
them have untreated tooth decay. If you live in a rural part of your 
State--Mr. President, I know your State and my State have rural 
communities--only 11 percent of our population ever visit a dentist. We 
have a problem with dental care in this country. Twenty-five million 
Americans live today in areas that have inadequate dental care 
services. So we can do better, and this bill moves us in the right 
direction. There is a direct relationship between general health and 
oral health. We know that. One example: Plaque has been directly 
related to problems with heart disease. We know there is a relationship 
there, and there is a lot to be learned.

I am going to try to put a face on this issue because we talk about 
what it means to have 25 million people who don't have access to dental 
services. I will tell you about one child, Deamonte Driver. He lived in 
Prince George's County in my State, which is about 6 miles from here. 
He was a 12-year-old who had problems with his teeth. His mom tried to 
get him to see a dentist and could not find one who would treat him. He 
sort of fell through the cracks.

Finally, he was suffering from horrible headaches, so his mother did 
what many parents do with children who don't have health insurance--
took the child to the emergency room. One of the reasons we want to see 
the CHIP bill passed is to get children less expensive preventive 
health care so they don't have to use emergency rooms as primary care 
facilities. He went to the emergency room, and he was admitted. It 
seemed as if he didn't just have tooth decay, he had an abscessed tooth 
that went untreated. No dentist would see him. He had no insurance. 
They performed an operation and tried to alleviate his pain and save 
his life. They performed a second operation and spent a quarter of a 
million dollars, which we paid for because it was uncompensated care. 
That boy died because, in 2007, we have no program in this country to 
provide that child an $80 tooth extraction and for children to be able 
to see dentists.

Mr. President, one of the really good things about this bill before 
us--our reauthorization bill--is we have a chance to do something about 
that. We have a chance to do something about the Deamonte Drivers of 
our communities, to make sure our innocent children get the type of 
attention they so much deserve.

What does this bill do for dental care? It has a guaranteed dental 
benefit, coverage of dental services necessary to prevent diseases, 
promote oral health, restore oral structure to health and function, and 
treat emergency conditions. That is what is covered in this legislation 
which we will vote on in a few hours. How do you meet that? It is 
interesting. The States are giving benchmarks. You can do it if you 
have a benefit like ours, our Federal plan, in which dental benefits 
are included. The State can meet the requirements by providing the 
benefits Federal employees get. They can take the dental benefits in 
their State employees' plan and use that as a model or they can take 
the most popular commercial plan in their State for enrollment for 
Medicaid enrollees and use that as their benchmark.

So when you are using commercial insurance as the benchmark for what 
children should be able to have insurance to deal with their dental 
needs, to me, that is the way we should be going. It is in this bill.

This is even more important. The bill provides for dental education 
for parents of newborns. When babies are born, they don't have teeth, 
so why is that important? One out of every five children between the 
ages of 2 and 4 has tooth decay in their baby teeth. This bill provides 
for education so that parents know about the risks of oral health and 
know how to deal with oral health as their babies grow up. It also 
makes it easier to locate a participating provider.

Let me go back to Deamonte Driver again, from Prince George's County. 
His parents sought the help of a social worker, Laurie Norris, who 
tried to find a dentist who would treat Deamonte Driver. That social 
worker made over 20 phone calls to try to find a dentist who would 
treat Deamonte Driver--without success. Think about the time that went 
into that. Think about how many parents must be so discouraged in 
trying to get help for their children.

Well, this legislation before us today, which we will vote on in a 
couple of hours, does something about that. It requires that the Web 
page on the Children's Health Insurance Program list the coverage 
available by State for dental benefits under the CHIP program, plus the 
list of providers who will provide that care. So if this bill becomes 
law, with one phone call or one click of the mouse, a parent will be 
able to know exactly what the benefits are and exactly which dentist 
that parent can contact in order to get his or her child the type of 
care they need.

I have heard my colleagues talk a lot about this Children's Health 
Insurance Program, how important it is to the health of the people in 
our communities. I know how important it is in Maryland. I am proud of 
our program at the State level, which has the cooperation and help of 
the Federal Government as a partner. It is a bipartisan bill, developed 
by Democrats and Republicans, and the bill makes sense from the point 
of view of proper allocation of money in our health care system and 
will save us money--all of those things.


At the end of the day, it does speak about priorities. What is 
important? Where are our priorities? What do we want to be known for? 
Whom did we stand up for?

This bill spends $35 billion over a 5-year period, and it is fully 
paid for. We can all make our own comparisons, but I think about the 
cost in Iraq, which, over a 3-month period, is costing more than this 
bill, and it is not paid for, but we seem to always have the money for 
that. And we come up with excuses to oppose this legislation.

I thank the leaders who were responsible for bringing this 
legislation forward. I urge my colleagues to support it. I hope we can 
get the type of support we need to pass this, notwithstanding the 
objections of the President. I always hold out hope that President Bush 
will sign a bill--a bill that will allow the people of Maryland and 
throughout this country to have adequate care so that we don't have to 
again see a story such as Deamonte Driver's--a child who died because 
we could not find a way to get him basic dental care.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.

With that, I yield the floor.