---
---

# THE OIL CRISIS
## `106379b00617eb839df9b6c37652f458`
`Mr. DORGAN — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, the front page of a recent New York Times 
article and front page of a Wall Street Journal issue said: ''Ethanol's 
Boom Stalling As Glut Depresses Price.'' Wall Street Journal article 
says: ''Ethanol Boom Is Running Out of Gas.'' Last night on ''NBC 
Nightly News,'' featured a piece about the closing of ethanol plants 
and the problem with the production of ethanol as a substitute for oil.

Mr. President, I want to talk a moment about that because we are 
unbelievably dependent on foreign oil. If anybody thinks they should 
nap through this or sleep through this vulnerability, they are dead 
wrong because 60 percent of the oil we need in this country and use 
every day we get from outside of our country. We stick little straws in 
this planet of ours and suck oil out. We suck out about 84 million 
barrels of oil every single day. We use one-fourth of that in this 
country every day, or about 21 to 22 million barrels of oil. So of all 
the oil we suck out of this planet every day, we use one fourth of it 
just in this little space called the United States of America.

The problem with using one fourth of it is that 60 percent of that 
oil which we use comes from other countries, much of it from troubled 
parts of the world, such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, and Venezuela. 
Well, if tomorrow, God forbid, somehow the import of oil into this 
country were interrupted, we would be flat on our back economically.

We get up in the morning and just take it all for granted. We get up, 
we get out of bed and rub our eyes, then flick a switch, and the lights 
go on. We get in the car, turn the key, and the engine starts. We take 
it all for granted. But what happens at some point if we shut off the 
petroleum, shut off the electricity, and see what life is like, see 
what our economy is like?

So we decided to do something about that. If we are unbelievably 
dependent on and vulnerable when it comes to foreign oil, what do we 
do? We begin to produce energy in our farm fields.

We produce biofuels. That is not a new thing. It has been around over 
a century. I was at a biodiesel plant the other day. It was a grand 
opening. I pointed out there that the first known use of vegetable oil 
as fuel for a diesel engine was a demonstration at the World's Fair in 
the year 1900. Rudolf


Diesel later experimented with fuel made from peanut oil or biodiesel 
for engines he was developing. So this is not new.

All of a sudden our country has decided we should produce biofuels--
ethanol, for example--and we have begun to do that. Oil companies don't 
like it very much. The OPEC countries don't like it very much. The last 
thing they want to see is for us to begin to produce not only the 
fossil fuels in our country, including oil and natural gas, but also 
biofuels and the renewable energy that can grow in our farm fields. We 
can take a kernel of corn, and from that kernel of corn with various 
processes produce fuel that will substitute for fuel oil we now get 
from troubled parts of the world. That makes a lot of sense to me.

We use about 140 billion gallons or 145 billion gallons of fuel a 
year. If every single gallon of fuel were blended with ethanol, our 
total market for ethanol would be about 14.5 billion gallons. The 
President says let's go to 35 billion gallons. I agree with that. So do 
most of my colleagues. The Senate has already voted on a bill to 
produce 36 billion gallons. But how are we going to use 36 billion 
gallons if we are only blending ethanol at 10 percent? We have to have 
the E85 pumps. They are producing flex-fuel vehicles in Detroit now, 
and they have said they are going to get to 50 percent of all the 
vehicles they produce being flex-fuel vehicles so we can run a fuel 
that is 85 percent ethanol. E85 they call it.

You might have a flex-fuel vehicle right now--in my State there are 
about 16,000 to 18,000 flex-fuel vehicles--and there are 23 places in 
the entire State where you can pull up to a pump and get E85.

In California there are over 270,000 flex-fuel vehicles, and there is 
one reported gasoline pump in the entire State of California that pumps 
E85. Think of that, one pump.

Let me describe what some of the obstacles are. I have long been 
concerned if we are going to produce ethanol--and we should and we 
must--we have to not only produce it, we have to market it. We have to 
produce it, then we have to run it through the carburetors and fuel 
injectors of vehicles. If we don't have the market, that whole industry 
collapses.

Let me give some examples of why we don't have more E85 pumps. No. 1, 
we have some folks in here who want to produce ethanol and support all 
that, but they don't support any kind of mandate that would require 
that we have an infrastructure out there to actually use the ethanol. 
We are now starting to see the results of that. Let me describe that 
with an article in the Wall Street Journal: ''Fill Up With Ethanol? One 
Obstacle Is Big Oil.'' April 2, this year:




 Oil companies employ a variety of tactics that help keep 


 the E85 fuel out of the stations that bear the company name. 


 For instance, franchisees are sometimes required to purchase 


 all the fuel they will sell from the oil company. Since oil 


 companies generally don't sell E85


That is, 85 percent ethanol that you would use in a flex fuel 
vehicle--



 the station can't either.


Let me describe some of the ways the major brand retailers are trying 
to prevent the widespread marketing of ethanol. ExxonMobil and BP 
require their franchise stations--and this is directly from the Wall 
Street Journal article--require their franchise stations to buy fuel 
exclusively from them. Neither company offers E85. So the station 
owners must apply for an exception if they wish to sell E85, or 85 
percent ethanol.




 A ConocoPhillips memo to franchisees says the company 


 doesn't allow E85 sales on the primary island, under the 


 covered canopy where gasoline is sold. Stations must find 


 another spot. As a result, it isn't quite as simple for a 


 driver to decide on the spur of the moment to fill up with 