---
---

# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `1082cf1262d478507815ce6e3c345049`
`Mr. DURBIN — 24 January 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I will support the Judiciary Committee 
substitute to the FISA Amendments Act.

As a member of the committee, I wish to commend Chairman Leahy for 
his leadership. I think we have struck the right balance to give the 
Government the power they need to keep us safe but to protect our 
privacy, which we cherish so much as Americans.

I wish to commend the majority leader, Harry Reid, for bringing the 
FISA Amendments Act to the floor as one of our first items of business 
this year. I wish to thank my colleague and friend from the Senate 
Intelligence Committee, Senator Rockefeller. Though we may disagree on 
some aspects of this bill, he has been a real leader on an issue of 
great complexity.

Last August, Congress responded to the administration's request to 
approve foreign surveillance legislation on an expedited basis. 
Remember, we didn't come to this issue because the administration felt 
they needed to deal us into the picture. We came to this issue because 
the New York Times finally published an article and told us about this 
warrantless surveillance that was going on all across America for 
years, surveillance that was not approved by Congress and was clearly 
not allowed by law but continued by this administration with impunity 
until they were caught with their hands in the cookie jar by the New 
York Times. Then they came to Congress and said: Well, why don't you 
write a law. Can we help you write a law?

After 9/11, I can remember Senator Rockefeller, Senator Leahy, 
Senator Specter, and so many others who rose to the occasion and said: 
We will come together on a bipartisan basis to keep our country safe. 
We lost 3,000 innocent people. We don't want that to ever happen again. 
We passed the PATRIOT Act. It wasn't perfect, but it was bipartisan. It 
had a sunset built into it. We tried to give this Government the tools 
to keep America safe. There wasn't a lot of grandstanding and 
speechifying. We did our job.

Then what happened? The Bush administration decided, in so many 
different aspects of this war on terrorism, to deal Congress and the 
American people out of the picture from that point forward. We heard 
rumors about secret programs, and a handful of Members were briefed, I 
guess; I wasn't one of them. Then, it wasn't until the New York Times 
told the whole story that we were kind of drawn into this situation, 
where we are trying to write a law to approve a course of conduct which 
the administration was undertaking, at least to some degree, without 
even consulting or conferring with Congress in its constitutional 
capacity.

The Senate Intelligence Committee and the Senate Judiciary Committee 
have held a lot of hearings. They have debated how to write this law 
and voted on a lot of amendments. We are now facing the reality that 
the Protect America Act, which was passed a short time ago, will expire 
next Friday, February 1.

Under any circumstances, it would be difficult for the Senate to pass 
a bill of this complexity, reconcile our differences with the House, 
and get it all wrapped up in a week. But the President has made it 
clear he is not going to sign this bill unless it includes an amnesty 
for telephone companies that cooperated with the administration's 
warrantless surveillance program. This is a difficult, controversial 
issue many Members feel very strongly about. I am one of them. The 
President insists that an amnesty provision for telephone companies be 
included, and I think that is going to make it impossible for us to 
meet the February 1 deadline.

Senator Reid, the majority leader, has asked for a 30-day extension 
of the Protect America Act. Let's continue the current law for 30 days. 
Let's try to work out our differences. Let's do this in a responsible 
way. Senator McConnell on the Republican side objected--objected to 
carrying on the current law for 30 days while we tried to work out our 
differences. That objection speaks volumes. Even though he opposed the 
Protect America Act, the majority leader I think was acting in good 
faith and taking the sensible course of action: Let's try to work these 
things out and not punish anybody in the process. The current law would 
stay in effect for another 30 days. The Republican Senate leadership, 
Mitch McConnell, said no.

Well, that is unfortunate. The spokesperson for the White House said 
on Tuesday:




 The Protect America Act expires in just 10 days, yet after 


 nearly 6 months of delay, Congress still has not taken the 


 necessary action to keep our Nation safe. For the sake of our 


 national security, Congress must act now.


So said the White House 2 days ago.

I can't follow this logic. On the one hand, the White House claims we 
face grave national security threats if this program expires, and on 
the other hand, when Senator Reid tries to extend the program for 30 
days, the Republican leadership objects. I am sorry, but that doesn't 
follow.

It is worth recalling what brought us to this point. It is difficult 
to believe it has been over 6 years since the terrorists struck our 
country on 9/11. I will never forget that terrible day, and most 
Americans will not either. And we will never forget what happened 
afterwards when Congress came together and tried to respond and make 
our country safe. Sadly, today Osama bin Laden is still on the loose, 
and al-Qaida is still around and may be growing in size.

I wish the administration had continued the spirit of bipartisanship 
of the PATRIOT Act. They would have had the full support of Congress 
and the American people. We showed that with the passage of the PATRIOT 
Act. But even as we were debating that important law, the 
administration was secretly implementing torture and surveillance 
policies totally inconsistent with the values of our Nation. They 
didn't ask Congress to approve the warrantless wiretapping of innocent 
Americans or torture techniques such as waterboarding. Instead, they 
based their policies on the extreme view of some in the administration 
that the President, as Commander in Chief, was not bound by the law.


They discarded the Geneva Conventions after decades of America saying 
that was a significant underpinning of our relationship with the 
civilized world. They rejected it. They called it obsolete, the Geneva 
Conventions. They opened Guantanamo, which has become an international 
embarrassment. Former Secretary of State Colin Powell has joined so 
many others in saying: Close this embarrassment. Yet they continue.

The Justice Department's infamous torture memo narrowly redefined 
torture as limited only to pain equivalent to organ failure or death. 
Senator John


McCain, a man who was a prisoner of war during Vietnam for years and 
years, spoke out and led a bipartisan fight to establish standards when 
it comes to the treatment of prisoners. I was happy to join him on a 
bill that had more than 90 votes, a strong bipartisan sentiment, a bill 
which sadly was watered down by a signing statement from this 
President, and I am afraid--though we may never know--I am afraid it 
has been ignored at many levels by this administration.

We still fight the Taliban and al-Qaida in Afghanistan, and while we 
are doing it, the administration has launched a misleading propaganda 
campaign leading perhaps to the greatest foreign policy blunder in 
American history: the war in Iraq.

It is worth noting that in a new report issued this week, the Center 
for Public Integrity concluded:




 President George W. Bush and seven of his administration's 


 top officials, including Vice President Cheney, National 


 Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice, and Defense Secretary 


 Rumsfeld, made at least 935 false statements in the two years 


 following September 11, 2001, about the national security 


 threat posed by Saddam Hussein's Iraq. An exhaustive 


 examination of the record shows that the statements were part 


 of an orchestrated campaign that effectively galvanized 


 public opinion and in the process led the Nation to war under 


 decidedly false pretenses.


Is there any more grievous sin in a democracy than for leaders at the 
highest level to mislead the people of a Democratic Nation into a war 
with such tragic consequences? Almost 4,000 of our best and bravest--
innocent, hard-working, dedicated, and patriotic soldiers--have given 
their lives. Countless thousands have been injured because we were 
misled into a war by this administration.

The administration brooked no dissent from their misleading campaign 
for war or their misguided counterterrorism policies. If anyone raised 
an objection, they were branded as soft on terrorism. Who can forget 
John Ashcroft, our former Attorney General, blaming critics of the 
administration for spreading ''phantoms of lost liberty'' and warning 
''your tactics only aid terrorists''?

Time and again, the administration and their allies pressured 
Congress to consider controversial proposals immediately before 
elections. Oh, that is when all the warning bells went off and the 
threat level colors were changed. We were told there was a threat on 
the way, and how were we to come to any other conclusion if we didn't 
see the evidence? What a coincidence that most of those warnings came 
right before an election. It was Karl Rove's playbook and the 
administration ran that play over and over and over again.

In 2002, the administration insisted Congress must vote to authorize 
the war in Iraq before the election or our security would be at risk. 
Why? White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card explained that ''from a 
marketing point of view'' that was the right time to ''introduce new 
products.''

In 2004, the administration and its Republican allies in Congress 
claimed it was imperative to reauthorize the PATRIOT Act before the 
election or our security would be at risk. This despite the fact it 
didn't expire until December 31, 2005. Congress chose this date for the 
express purpose of depoliticizing this debate.

For years, the administration insisted the President had unilateral 
authority to detain enemy combatants and try them in military 
commissions. Again and again our Supreme Court rejected the 
administration's arguments. Suddenly, shortly before the 2006 election, 
the administration changed course, insisting that Congress must vote to 
authorize military commissions or our security would be at risk. In 
fact, the administration's bill included amnesty for administration 
officials who had authorized illegal torture techniques. How will 
history judge us, granting amnesty to those who engaged in torture?

It is more than a year since Congress passed the Military Commissions 
Act. Despite their claims of urgency, the administration has failed to 
bring a single terrorist to trial.

In the 2006 election, the American people took a stand and rejected 
the politics and policies of fear and they rejected this 
administration's scare tactics. One would hope the administration would 
have learned a lesson. But in 2008, another election year has arrived 
and, unfortunately, here we go again with an administration continuing 
to stake out divisive positions on terrorism.

The administration claimed Attorney General Mukasey would turn a new 
page at the Department of Justice, but he has refused to say even now 
whether torture techniques known as waterboarding are illegal. During 
his confirmation hearing, Judge Mukasey promised to review the 
administration's classified interrogation techniques and assess their 
legality. It has been 2 months since then and yesterday I wrote to the 
Attorney General to remind him about that commitment. He has had ample 
time to study this issue.

Yesterday, the administration announced they were going to renominate 
Steven Bradbury to be head of the Office of Legal Counsel. This is the 
office that issues binding legal opinions for the executive branch, 
including having issued the infamous torture memo. I have repeatedly 
urged President Bush to withdraw this nomination of Mr. Bradbury 
because of his involvement in authorizing the administration's 
controversial interrogation and surveillance policies.

Now, the administration claims our security is at risk in this 
election year because Congress is allowing the Protect America Act to 
expire, even though Senator Reid 2 days ago tried to extend it for a 
month, and the Republican leadership objected. Well, no surprise.

Yesterday, Vice President Cheney weighed in. He gave a speech 
praising the administration's counterterrorism efforts. He ignored the 
lessons of the last 6 years. He praised Guantanamo Bay, even though his 
President has called for closing it, and he praised what he called the 
CIA's ''tougher interrogation program.'' Well, there is a phrase that 
is loaded. He claimed the CIA's interrogation techniques comply with 
our treaty obligations, although the military's top lawyers and others 
say they violate the Geneva Convention. He said Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, 
the alleged mastermind of 9/11, had been subjected to the CIA's 
''tougher'' techniques. But the Vice President neglected to mention 
that 6 years after 9/11, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and the other 9/11 
planners still have not been put to trial. Some experts say it will be 
impossible to convict him because he was subjected to waterboarding and 
other torture techniques.

The Vice President urged Congress to pass FISA legislation. Quoting 
President Bush, he said:




 The lessons of September 11 have become dimmer and dimmer 


 in some people's minds.


Mr. Vice President, the American people haven't forgotten 9/11, and 
we never will.

We also have not forgotten that Osama bin Laden is still free and the 
resources needed to track him down were diverted to a war in Iraq.

We have not forgotten that the war in Iraq has cost our Nation 
billions and, tragically, the lives of almost 4,000.

We have not forgotten that instead of working with Congress to 
prosecute the war on terrorism in a bipartisan fashion that respects 
American values, this administration chose to go it alone.

We will never, ever forget the blood, sweat, and tears shed by 
countless American heroes, who fight even as we speak to defend what 
makes America unique in the world. They fight not to defend any race, 
religion, or ethnic group; they fight to defend a value--the value upon 
which our country was founded. We are a nation of laws, not men--not 
this President, not any President.

In his speech yesterday, the Vice President noted:




 The terrorists waging war against this country don't fight 


 according to the rules of warfare, or international law, or 


 moral standards, or basic humanity.


That is true, but America is a lot better than the terrorists.

Ironically, the Vice President also noted:




 This cause is bigger than the quarrels of party and agendas 


 of politicians.


Well, that is true as well. I only wish the Vice President and the 
administration would have heeded his own words and stopped politicizing 
so many national security issues.

I urge my colleagues to reject the politics of fear and reject the 
scare tactics of this administration. Support the


Judiciary Committee substitute, support the majority leader's request 
for a 1-month extension in the Protect America Act. We can give the 
Government the power it needs to protect us, and we can still uphold 
the rule of law and protect the precious liberties of the American 
people.

I yield the floor.