---
---

# None
## `1089679ed64705c3da426c7803cc9c46`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 9 April 2008`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you, Madam Speaker, and good job on my 
name pronunciation. I have a hard time with it too.

Madam Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to begin the 30-Something 
Working Group's special order hour tonight. Speaker Pelosi has given us 
the privilege to come to the floor night after night to talk about the 
issues that are important to the American people, from our generation's 
perspective. And it is something that we have appreciated for a number 
of years because we've had an opportunity to engage the next generation 
of Americans, who clearly are yearning for their government to be 
responsive to them, to have their confidence in their government 
restored.

And tonight what we want to focus on, particularly because General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker came to Capitol Hill this week to talk 
about the so-called progress, or lack thereof, which is a better 
expression, in the war in Iraq, we felt it was important to highlight 
tonight the absolute cost of the war in Iraq and the toll that it is 
taking on, not just our military troops, but their families and on 
America as a whole.

And I think there is no more telling statement that could be made 
than the one that was made by General Petraeus himself in response to 
Senator Evan Bayh's question, or comment, that there was much ambiguity 
in Iraq. And General Petraeus conceded that point.

General Petraeus stated this week, in fact I believe it was today, 
that in Iraq we haven't turned any corners; we haven't seen any lights 
at the end of the tunnel. The champagne bottle has been pushed to the 
back of the refrigerator, he said, referencing President Bush and 
former Vietnam-era General William Westmoreland's famous phrases.

It is clear that we have made virtually no progress, and that the 
only things that we are celebrating at this point is that there has 
been a reduction in violence. I wonder what that has brought us. What 
has that brought Americans?

Well, let's go through what the so-called progress in Iraq that was 
described by General Petraeus today and this week, what that's brought 
us.

We spend about $339 million in Iraq every single day, Madam Speaker. 
$339 million. And I'd like to go through the actual monetary costs of 
the war in a little bit. But let me just talk about what $339 million 
would get us and the investments that we could make in America, 
domestically, in the event that we were not hopelessly mired in this 
war in Iraq.

$339 million would get us 2,060 more Border Patrol agents that could 
be hired to protect our borders for a year.

18,000 more students could receive Pell Grants to help them attend 
college for a year with $339 million.

48,000 homeless veterans could be provided with a place to live for a 
year.

317,000 more children could receive every recommended vaccination for 
a year.

955,000 families could get help with their energy bills through the 
Low Income Home Energy Assistance program, that's the LIHEAP program, 
for a year.

Nearly 480,000 women, infants and children could receive nutritional 
help with the WIC program for a year.

2.6 million Americans without adequate health insurance could have 
access to medical and dental care at community health centers for a 
year for $339 million.

More than 100 local communities could make improvements to their 
drinking water with help from the Clean Water State Revolving Fund for 
a year.

I could continue on and on, Madam Speaker, listing all the important 
investments that we could and should be making, were we not spending 
$339 million in Iraq every day.

Now, let me just make that comparison again. I'm talking $339 million 
that we're spending in Iraq every day, and the list I just went through 
details what $339 million would buy for a year.

Now, I went home to my district a couple of weeks ago when we went 
into recess and talked to my constituents, had a lot of interaction 
with them. And you know, what was amazing was how top of mind the 
economy is.

We're less than a week from the April 15 tax deadline, and I'm sure 
that there are folks out there tonight that are sitting and doing their 
taxes while trying to figure out how they're going to write that check 
when they're done, and wondering how they're going to take their child 
to the doctor if they don't have health insurance, wondering how 
they're going to make sure that they can put food on the table and fill 
their gas tank, because now that gas is over $3 a gallon, really over 
$3.30 a gallon, it boggles the mind of my constituents and I know the 
constituents of virtually every Member, no matter what party we 
represent, that we are actually still, 5 years later, in Iraq, with an 
administration that just doesn't seem to get it; that doesn't seem to 
be willing to recognize that it is time to bring our troops home; that 
we have taken too great a toll.

The question that my constituents and that Americans are asking is, 
how much is too much? At what point do we say the cost is too great?

I think you have to take a look at the toll that this is taking on 
military families. If we're not going to say that the investments we 
can't make because we're spending so much money in Iraq are worth the 
cost, then let's look at what the military leadership is saying about 
the toll that this war is taking on our troops.

An Army study of mental health, and this is from an article a couple 
of days ago, April 6 in the New York Times, an Army study of mental 
health showed that 27 percent of noncommissioned officers, a critically 
important group, on their third or fourth tour, exhibited symptoms 
commonly referred to as post-traumatic stress disorders. That figure is 
far higher than the roughly 12 percent who exhibit those symptoms after 
one tour, and the 18/1/2/ percent who develop the disorders after a 
second deployment, according to the study which was conducted by the 
Army Surgeon General's mental health advisory team.

So we're not talking about organizations conducting studies examining 
the mental health of our troops that are outside the military process. 
We're talking about military organizations that are saying that the 
strain on our troops mentally has really reached a breaking point.

We have combat troops that have been sent to Iraq for a third and 
fourth time, where more than one in four, more than one in four, show 
signs of anxiety, depression or acute stress, according to an official 
Army survey of soldiers' mental health. There is an increasing alarm 
about the mental health of our troops and, at some point, something has 
to give.

Again, when do we say enough is enough? When do we say that we have 
to make sure that we can focus on the needs here in the United States 
of America?

We are struggling with an economy that is at its breaking point. Yet, 
the economy in Iraq seems to be thriving. The Iraqi government is 
actually dealing with a budget surplus, and we are facing a deficit. 
There's something wrong with that picture, Madam Speaker.

Let me just, I really want to turn, I think people should be given a 
really clear picture about the monetary cost that we are dealing with 
when it comes to this war, this ongoing and continuous war in Iraq.

This is from our nonpartisan Congressional Research Service report, 
the Cost of Iraq War Rising. Here's the breakdown of what we're 
spending in Iraq per year, per month, per week, per day, per hour, per 
minute and per second.

If you take a look at the number per year, the amount per year that 
we are


spending in Iraq, we're spending $123.6 billion per year.

Now, that's a hard number to maybe get your mind around. Billions and 
millions of dollars are very big numbers that most people aren't 
dealing with every day in their daily life.

So let's go down to the monthly expenditure that we're making here. 
That amounts to $10.3 billion.

But if we want to drill down a little bit further and deal with the 
weekly and daily expenditures, weekly, we're spending $2,376,923,077. 
Per day we're spending almost $339 million, as I described a few 
minutes ago.

But hourly, this is really the number, Madam Speaker, that I think 
will hit home with virtually all Americans. We are spending, hourly, in 
Iraq, and this is, again, third-party validator, the nonpartisan 
Congressional Research Service report on the cost of the Iraq war and 
its rising cost. Per hour we are spending $14,109,589 in Iraq.

I don't think it's necessary for me to go down to the minute and the 
second. I think the point is well made. $14 million an hour. I mean, 
that is just unbelievable.



How many is too much? When do we say that the toll that this is 
taking on our troops is just beyond our capacity? Since the start of 
the war in Iraq, we have had 4,013 brave American men and women in 
uniform that have been killed. We have an estimated almost 30,000 
servicemembers that have been wounded in Iraq, and as of March 1, more 
than 31,300 have been treated for noncombat injuries and illness.

According, again, to the Army's own mental health advisory team, 
soldiers who are on their second, third, and fourth deployments report 
low morale, more mental health problems, and more stress-related work 
problems.

Now, Madam Speaker, these numbers right here really sent chills down 
my spine. An estimated three-quarters of a million troops have been 
discharged since the war in Iraq began, many of whom have had 
compromised mental and physical health. An estimated 260,000 have been 
treated at veterans' health facilities, nearly 100,000 have been 
diagnosed as having mental health conditions, and an additional 200,000 
have received some level of care from walk-in facilities. That is just 
unbelievable.

I can tell you that I have been to Walter Reed Army Medical Center to 
visit our wounded troops that have come back from Iraq. I've told this 
story during the 30-Something Working Group in the past. I will tell it 
again because really, as a mom with young kids, it was so disturbing to 
me.

I walked into this young soldier's room to talk to him about his 
injury and to talk to him about what he went through, and his wife and 
his 6-year-old little boy were in there with him. And I had a nice 
chance to chat with the little boy. He was very exuberant and excited. 
It was really a lovely conversation. He was so excited. His dad had 
just come back from his third tour in Iraq, each of a year. Now 
remember, this little boy was 6 years old, and the father was telling 
me he had a stress-related mental health injury, and the father was 
telling me about how he was supposed to be finished with his tour in 
August, was still hoping to go back, by the way, which is amazing 
because these troops that represent the United States of America are 
just absolutely so committed and so patriotic, and really, I just so 
admire their bravery.

But what the little boy said when I had a chance to talk to him, he 
said he was so excited, my daddy is coming home after August. And when 
he said that, it occurred to me that this little boy being 6 and his 
father having been through three 1-year deployments in Iraq, this 
father had missed half of his son's life. Half of his son's life. That 
just was mind-boggling to me being a mom of 8-year-old twins and a 4-
year-old. I just can't even imagine. I have children close to that age, 
and I can't imagine having missed half their life. I mean, that just 
takes a toll on families. It takes a toll on marriage.

Madam Speaker, even the time that myself and other parents serving in 
Congress here are away from our families, I know the toll that it takes 
on my husband when I'm here just working in Washington and not with him 
and leaving my kids with him to make sure that he gets them bathed and 
gets their dinner and the homework is done and all of the things that 
have to be done on a daily basis with families. It takes a toll that I 
am here and not with him to help him do that.

Add the stress of your family member being thousands of miles across 
the world in a war zone, in a war situation, not knowing whether 
they're going to ever come back, the not knowing when they're going to 
come back because the military keeps extending these tours of duty, 
keeps sending them back, does not give them enough rest in between the 
tours of duty. The Army, over the last several years, has extended the 
rest, extended the tours of duty from 12 months to 15 months, Madam 
Speaker, so now we are beyond a year for deployments. And General 
Petraeus said we may be able, by the end of the summer to pull back the 
length of the deployments from 15 months to 12 months, but we're still 
going to be at 140,000 troops once we draw down the amount of the 
surge. That means there is no difference, Madam Speaker, between where 
we are now and where we were before the start of the surge. How do you 
call that progress?

Someone is using a different dictionary than I am if that's progress. 
I mean, the dictionary that I use to define ''progress'' says that we 
see improvement, that the quality of life improves, that there's a 
light at the end of the tunnel, which General Petraeus clearly said we 
do not see right now.

I want to just quote, and in the 30-Something Working Group, we try 
to use third-party validators. So it is not just our words that we use 
to demonstrate the statements that we are making; we try to back up our 
words with evidence.

So let me talk about the cost to military families from military 
leaders' perspective.

General George Casey said recently on March 26 in the Wall Street 
Journal that 15-month-long deployments are impacting on their families, 
it's impacting on their mental health. We just can't keep going at the 
rate that we're going.

General Richard Cody, the Army vice chief of staff: Our readiness is 
being consumed as fast as we build it. Lengthy and repeated deployments 
with insufficient recovery time have placed incredible stress on our 
soldiers and our families, testing the resolve of our all-volunteer 
force like never before.

Let's go down to what retired Admiral William Fallon, the former 
commander of the U.S. Central Command said: I will certainly tell you 
that I think our troops are in need of a change in the deployment 
cycle. We've had too many, from my experience, of several of our key 
segments of the troop population, senior NCOs, mid- to junior officers, 
on multiple rotations. He said, I look at my commanders, and some of 
them have logged more months in Iraq in the last decade than they have 
at home by a significant amount.

Can you imagine? More months in Iraq over the last 10 years than they 
have at home. Imagine the cost, the toll that that takes on their 
families. Let us go beyond the toll on families.

It is pretty clear that we have had a dramatic increase in the cost 
of fuel and the cost of a barrel of oil just during our time in the 
last 5 years in the Middle East. We have gone from gas prices being a 
little more than $1, about $1.26 or so, to now gas prices being well 
over $3.30 and expected this summer to reach $4 or more.

I can tell you that I am a minivan mom, Madam Speaker, and I 
regularly drive my kids around our community and car pool with the best 
of them. The last time I filled up my tank, which was last week, it 
cost $65. Now, the last time I talked about how much it cost me to fill 
up my tank, and Mr. Ryan remembers this, I really feel like this is 30-
Something redux. I mean, really. It's deja vu all over again. You could 
roll back the tape to 2, 3 years ago when we were talking about the 
cost of the war in Iraq and the impact, and we are basically saying the 
exact same thing. It is just unbelievable.

But the last time I talked on the floor, spoke on the floor about how 
much it cost me to fill up my minivan, it was about $55. And that's 
really only been about a year since the last time we talked about the 
impact of oil prices. And what the leaders that look and examine this 
information have said is that any time we have extended involvement in 
the Middle East, you see


a dramatic rise in oil prices that coincide with that.

The price of gas and the price of oil, in this environment and in 
this economy, is just devastating to American families.

So you have extensions of impact and extensions of costs beyond just 
the toll that it takes on the troops themselves, the toll that it takes 
on their families. There's a toll on America. There's a toll on 
society. I mean, it's so disconcerting and it's so disheartening to 
listen to our colleagues on the other side of the aisle who seem to 
just be in utter denial. I mean, they just keep saying the same thing 
over and over.

And we've been talking about the cost of this war, and I'm so glad to 
be joined by my good friend, Congressman Tim Ryan from the great State 
of Ohio who I have shared many an opportunity to speak on the floor 
about the things that Americans care about in the 30-Something Working 
Group.

It's just shocking that the administration is continuing to expect 
more of the same and to have there be more of the same and to expect a 
different result. There really is, and I would be happy to yield to the 
gentleman.