# CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS
## `108af1809c5603bcad79df548a59894b`
`Mrs. JONES of Ohio â€” 22 October 2007`

---


Mrs. JONES of Ohio. I thank Ms. Jackson-Lee for her leadership on 
these issues and for joining me during the Congressional Black Caucus 
hour.

Let me talk about Judge Southwick for just a few minutes, and then I 
would like to review some of the progress that has been made under the 
leadership of our Chair, Ms. Kilpatrick, in the 110th Congress.

As we were talking about Judge Southwick, you have to understand this 
will be the first controversial judicial nomination considered by the 
Senate since Democrats took the majority. It has been 10 months since 
the Senate changed hands, and the people expect a difference in the way 
judicial nominations are handled. We don't want to go back to the way 
they were handled under the Republican leadership.

The Congressional Black Caucus and the civil rights groups warned the 
Senate about Roberts and Alito, yet they were both confirmed. The first 
full Supreme Court term of the Roberts court showed that we are able to 
predict how judges will act or respond on civil rights cases once 
confirmed.

To confirm a lower court judge in the face of a bad record on civil 
rights will simply be too much to bear. Let me step aside for a moment, 
and I heard my colleague Ms. Sheila Jackson-Lee talk about there being 
a white judge and an all-white jury and a white prosecutor. I served as 
a judge for 10 years in the Common Pleas Court, a general jurisdiction 
court, in Cuyahoga County, Ohio. I served for 3 years as an assistant 
county prosecutor and 8 years as an elected prosecutor. I have been in 
courtrooms where there have been all-white juries, and I will not say 
that an all-white jury cannot be fair. But what the law says is you 
should have a jury of your peers. And the law also says that people 
should not be excluded from a jury just because of their race. I have 
seen an attempt for that to happen in other cases.

It is so very, very important that if we expect people to follow the 
law and be a part of the law and be a part of the judicial system, that 
they have a belief that the judicial system will be fair. Once you have 
that perception and belief, then you can succumb to the rule of law. In 
this country, so often we see instances where young men and women have 
come before the court and they have not had fairness, and that is when 
it is important to have a circuit court where you can appeal your 
decision in a trial level court to the circuit court for relief.

The fight in the Fifth Circuit is a fight worth having. It has the 
highest percentage of minority residents, black and brown, of any 
circuit. At the same time, the civil rights jurisprudence is far to the 
right. We have already talked about the Jena Six.

There is a history with this seat. President Bush is intent on 
placing someone who has a history adverse to civil rights in 
Mississippi sit on this court. Charles Pickering and Michael Wallace 
were nominated, but couldn't get confirmed because of their civil 
rights records. This is the third try by the administration, and the 
pattern is very clear. We believe that the President, if he was really 
paying attention to the people of America, what he would in fact do is 
withdraw this nomination and go on and allow us to have someone who 
would be fair and honest.

We may not win this battle on a sound bite or our debate on the floor 
of the House of Representatives, but we believe that the Senate, we 
believe that this Senate under the majority, Democratic majority, is 
going to step up to the plate and make the right decision. We expect 
that they will take a look at his background and experience and make 
that decision.

So I am pleased, as I said, having been a judge, and it is a 
difficult job being a judge. You have to have the right temperament. 
You have to give people the opportunity to present their evidence, and 
you make decisions and rulings on evidence and admissibility and 
whether it is probative, whether it can be prejudicial. And if it is 
prejudicial, is it outweighed by the probative value. And be familiar 
with the rules of evidence such that when you sit in the chair as the 
judge making a decision, and the reason, and it is symbolic, under the 
law, the reason judges wear robes, the robe is supposed to cover the 
human frailty of a judge and allow the judge to step up and be fair and 
set aside any of their background or experience that would be adverse.

So we are concerned about this judge, Judge Leslie Southwick, and we 
implore the U.S. Senate to not confirm his nomination.

I am going to close on a few of the accomplishments that the 
Congressional Black Caucus has been involved with over the first 9 
months. We are pleased to have an opportunity to be in the leadership 
role. We fought for minimum wage. Nearly 13 million people will enjoy 
the benefit of an increase in the minimum wage.

We fought for stem cell research which provides Federal funding for 
research that has the potential to treat sickle cell anemia, diabetes, 
paralysis, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. And many of these diseases are 
prevalent in the African American community, and we have been fighting 
for them.

We fought about student loans. I heard on the news today that George 
Washington University will be the first university to publish that 
their tuition and room and board is $55,000, and that the largest 
increase in tuition is actually going to be in public universities, not 
private universities. And we all know that most working-class folks 
send their children to public universities, so we are happy to be in 
the forefront of fighting for student loans.

We have also been pushing for disadvantaged businesses, disaster 
eligibility in light of what happened with Hurricane Katrina. We fought 
for the Katrina Housing Tax Relief Act of 2007.

We fought for United States Troop Readiness, Veterans Health and Iraq 
Accountability Act because we understand that there are young men and 
women of all colors fighting over in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is very, 
very important that they have the ability to have the kind of health 
care they need and that this government be held accountable for their 
conduct.

We have fought for the Gulf Coast Hurricane Housing Recovery Act 
because so many people were left out as a result of Hurricane Katrina 
and Hurricane Rita.

We fought for accountability in contracting because all of us have 
learned that many of the dollars that have


been squandered over these past few years under this administration 
have come as a result of contractors not being held accountable.

We fought for the Hate Crimes Act which provides legal protection for 
churches, synagogues, and mosques against hate crimes.

We fought for the Farm Nutrition and Bioenergy Act addressing the 
issues around that.

We stood up on behalf of the Children's Health Insurance and Medicare 
Protection Act, CHAMP. It was defeated in the Senate, and so it really 
didn't get anywhere; and that brought us back to SCHIP, which recently 
was vetoed by the President.

We want everyone to know that Democrats are going to continue to 
fight to be assured that 10 million children in the United States of 
America have health care coverage.

We fought on behalf of the Darfur Accountability and Divestment Act, 
and the list goes on. I am so proud to be in the U.S. Congress. I often 
tell people the story that my father was a skycap for 38 years for 
United Airlines and my mother was a factory worker. And for them to 
have the opportunity in a generation to see their daughter serve as a 
judge, a prosecutor, and then have an opportunity and the ability to be 
in the U.S. Congress is just something wonderful.

I always tell people if I am judged, and we always talk about honor 
thy father and thy mother, that if I am judged on honoring thy father 
and thy mother, I am probably going to get to heaven. Now some of the 
other conduct I've engaged in may keep me out of heaven, but I want to 
say I am pleased and proud to be the daughter of Andrew and Mary Tubbs 
and to represent the Congressional Black Caucus and represent the 
country in the U.S. Congress.

Lastly, I will say, the first time I had the opportunity to sit in 
that chair where you are, Mr. Speaker, I looked up to my mom and dad 
and said: ''Mom and Dad, look at me now, I am in charge of Congress and 
I'm swinging the gavel.''

Mr. Speaker, I thank you on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus.
