# REMEMBERING SEPTEMBER 11, 2001
## `109d2918a97c43b8a6d299ba6afca73f`
`Mr. LEAHY — 14 September 2009`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, last Friday was the eighth anniversary of 
the September 11 terrorist attacks, and we solemnly remembered the 
thousands of innocent lives, of many nationalities and religions, that 
were so cruelly and indiscriminately destroyed on that infamous day. It 
was a defining moment for our country, and since then we have sought to 
address the shocking intelligence and security failures that enabled 
the perpetrators to so brazenly enter this country and carry out those 
attacks, as well as to track down the masterminds of that atrocity and 
to destroy al-Qaida and other terrorist networks that have become a 
global menace.

We all recognize the threat that violent extremists pose to 
Americans, as well as to citizens of other countries, and the 
imperative of countering it. This should not be a matter of partisan 
politics, but of working together in a common purpose for the sake of 
law abiding people everywhere. I supported many of the initiatives of 
the Bush administration, as I have the Obama administration, to make 
our borders more secure, to improve our intelligence gathering, to 
track down terrorists and bring them to justice.

But there have been strong differences over what tactics to use, and 
the effectiveness of military force to combat violent extremism in 
countries where we are widely seen as invaders or occupiers. No issue 
has generated more


controversy than the Bush Administration's abuse of detainees, whether 
at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq, Bagram prison in Afghanistan, Guantanamo, 
other secret detention facilities around the world, or through the use 
of ''extraordinary rendition'' whereby prisoners were secretly 
delivered to the custody of foreign security forces whose use of 
torture was well documented.

These policies and practices, conceived and supported at the highest 
levels of the Bush administration, justified by Department of Justice 
lawyers who made a mockery of the law, and steadfastly defended as 
recently as last week by former Vice President Cheney, were abhorrent. 
They were also dangerous. They violated our international legal 
obligations, caused grave harm to our reputation as a country devoted 
to the rule of law, endangered our service men and women who every day 
face the risk of capture and mistreatment by our enemies, and caused 
deep embarrassment among the American people who, for generations, have 
taken pride in the image of our country as a defender of human rights 
and the highest moral values.

Last Friday, these issues and concerns were eloquently addressed in a 
timely piece in The Miami Herald by two distinguished retired senior 
U.S. military officers, Charles C. Krulak, who was commandant of the 
Marine Corps from 1995 to 1999, and Joseph P. Hoar, who was commander 
in chief of U.S. Central Command from 1991 to 1994. I urge all Senators 
to read it, and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the Record.