# None
## `10c6a76bbddd57549bfda090d7b18c0d`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 23 May 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you, Mr. Meek.

I have to tell you, I have thought recently when people come up to 
me, you would think that there are people that would say, Debbie, 
Kendrick, Tim, what does it really matter? We have been spending 
billions of dollars for the last 5 years. We are over there in Iraq. 
Yeah, the American people are opposed to this, and we are in a pretty 
bad situation over there, and there doesn't appear to be any end in 
sight, but how does this affect my life? At the end of the day I am 
eating, my children are eating, they are going to school. Iraq is far 
away, and it is not impacting me whether we continue the war in Iraq or 
don't continue the war in Iraq.

Gradually day by day, the percentage of people that don't feel that 
way, that get it, that understand what the impact is, not just on the 
perception of America in the world, but what the domestic day-to-day 
impact is, is growing.

Besides the President's popularity ratings, which are in the toilet, 
we have a situation here where people are realizing, for example, that 
our National Guard is unable to be 100 percent ready to take care of us 
and do the job that we actually created the National Guard to do.

Mr. Meek, next Friday is June 1, the official start of hurricane 
season, even though we have had activity a few weeks in advance of the 
beginning of hurricane season. And yesterday NOAA came out with their 
prediction on how busy this storm season is likely to be, and their 
prediction is 10 to 14 named storms, and a good chunk to be in the 
category 3, 4 or 5 category.

We have a National Guard that has equipment that is still over in 
Iraq, and when it does come back, it comes back in such terrible shape, 
it isn't going to be ready to take care of Americans who are in need 
after the aftermath of a natural disaster. That is a direct result of 
our inability to extricate ourselves from Iraq, our inability to hold 
the Iraqi Government accountable, to establish benchmarks, to make


sure that there is some progress made, and that they don't have an 
open-ended commitment and a blank check even after the Iraqi 
Parliament, Mr. Ryan and Mr. Meek, have indicated that they don't want 
us there anymore.

There was a resolution that came out of the Iraq Parliament that 
indicated they didn't want us there. There is an incredible frustration 
among the Iraqi people about our being there. There is a worldwide 
concern about our presence there; and, most importantly, the American 
people want us to bring the troops home so that we can refocus the 
attention that we are paying in Iraq on training those troops to stand 
up on their own and for the Iraqi Government to function on their own.