---
---

# TRIBUTE TO LANCE CORPORAL GENTIAN MARKU
## `10cdb52aeb2a3dd702584440ef6eaef6`
`Mr. KNOLLENBERG — 6 March 2008`

---


Mr. KNOLLENBERG. Madam Speaker, I want to pay tribute to a hero, LCpl 
Gentian Marku of Warren, Michigan. Today, I ask that the House of 
Representatives honor and remember this exceptional young man who died 
serving his country.

Gentian Marko immigrated with his family to the United States in 
1997, at the height of civil unrest in Albania. Once arriving in the 
United States, Gentian left behind his troubled childhood, and became 
the intelligent, diligent, and responsible young man that we know. 
After graduating from Warren Woods Tower High School in 2001, Gentian 
had hoped to become a police officer. At the recommendation of his 
father, a former first captain in the Albanian military police, Gentian 
joined the Marine Corps to help his chances at acceptance to the police 
academy.

After enlisting in the Marines in August 2002, Gentian was assigned 
to the First Battalion, Marine Expeditionary Force. In 2003, Gentian 
returned to Albania during a 2-week exercise with the Marines and 
served as a translator during meetings with the Albanian military and 
civilian leaders. Gentian had said it was one of his proudest moments 
being able to do something for both of his countries.

On November 25, 2004, Lance Corporal Marku was killed in action in 
Fallujah, Iraq, in the Anbar province. At the time, the Marines had 
awarded him medals for good conduct, humanitarian service, combat 
action and other activities.

My thoughts, prayers, and deepest gratitude for their sacrifice go to 
Gentian's family. There are no words that can relieve their pain and I 
can only offer to convey my deep respect and highest appreciation.

Madam Speaker, Lance Corporal Marku gave the ultimate sacrifice not 
only for the freedom and security of his family and our country, but 
for the people of Iraq. I wish to remember his bravery, conviction, and 
selflessness as he is honored today.
