---
---

# None
## `10dea43d63246640675d4384521ccda8`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. If I may, I think if you have to deficit-spend, if 
you have to borrow money because you need to make an investment, the 
Federal government's decision should be based on


the same kind of principles that a family would base the decision on. 
By borrowing this money, are you going to yield more value down the 
line? So a business will buy a machine and go into debt so they have 
the machine, but they know long-term if they make enough widgets out of 
the machine that eventually they'll pay it off and they'll actually 
increase the value of the company. Families borrow money, like for 
school and for college because they know that they may have to borrow 
20 or $30,000, but your son or daughter that has a college degree will 
be able to pay that back and have a higher standard of living 
throughout the course of their life.


So if we are borrowing money, if we are going to deficit-spend, it 
seems to me it would make sense that we want to invest into our own 
health care or education. But this President has spent and borrowed 
over $3 trillion, as my colleague from Miami has pointed out so 
eloquently. Where is the return? Where is the return on the $700 
billion we have spent in Iraq? Where is the return? Lower oil prices? 
Lower gasoline prices? No. It has only aggravated the problem that we 
have in the global economy now. And when you look at what we have been 
trying and trying and trying to do, not with the help of very many 
Republicans on this particular issue, Ray Lahood, Steve LaTourette and 
a lot of our friends have been very helpful with this issue. But when 
you look overall on what we have been trying to do, we, as Democrats 
since Speaker Pelosi took over, we are trying to make good investments.

We increased the minimum wage so that average people will have a few 
more bucks in their pocket. We made sure that we invested billions of 
dollars into the Pell grant so that you will have almost $1,000 more in 
a Pell grant in the next 5 years. We invested money that was going to 
the bank so that they could make a profit loaning money to students, 
and we took that money and we gave it to the students and reduced the 
interest rate that is paid for college loans from 6.8 percent to 3.4 
percent, so when you go out to get a loan, the average person will save 
$4,400. SCHIP. These are investments into the health of our kids. 
Community health clinics. We put a few hundred million dollars more, 
starting in the CR and then in the 2008 budget so that we can open up 
more health clinics so that poor families who don't have health care 
can at least have a first stop before they go to the emergency room. 
They may go earlier and will start preventing.

My point is, before I yield to my friend, these are all investments, 
Mr. Meek, Mrs. Tubbs Jones, Mr. Murphy, that are going to save the 
taxpayer money in the long run. They are going to make this country 
more competitive. They will lead to a stronger, more secure America. We 
are entitled here. This body has proven over the last 6 years that 
money is going to get spent. It's either going to the oil companies as 
corporate welfare and subsidies, it's going to the military-industrial 
complex through the war, it's going in tax cuts, primarily to the top 1 
percent. I am not saying that we want to tax people. I think the 
corporate tax needs to be fixed. There are a lot of changes that need 
to be made. But the overall point is, we are making investments that 
are going to yield value to the country and make us stronger and more 
unified and more prosperous as we move into the 21st century.

I yield to my friend.