# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE APPROPRIATIONS
## `10e06f1df4099dbf40f0797421a5ef5b`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 9 November 2009`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, I am disappointed that on November 5, 
2009, the Senate voted to table my amendment to prohibit the use of 
funds to prosecute individuals involved in the September 11, 2001, 
attacks in article III courts. As I stated at the time of the vote, it 
would be a grave mistake to prosecute these detainees in civilian court 
instead of the newly revamped military commissions.

Two hundred forty-nine family members of the victims of the September 
11 attacks wrote a letter in support of my amendment. They know better 
than anyone that the attacks that took their loved ones were war crimes 
and that criminalizing this war would be dangerous and unwise.

I would like to submit their letter in support of my amendment for 
the record, and I would like to give a special thanks to Debra 
Burlingame for her leadership on this issue. While I am disappointed in 
the vote on this amendment, I hope that in the future we will heed the 
counsel of those who lost the most in the terrible attacks on our 
country--the family members of 9/11 victims.




























 November 5, 2009.


 U.S. Senate,


 U.S. Capitol,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Senators: On September 11, 2001, the entire world 


 watched as 19 men hijacked four commercial airliners, 


 attacking passengers and killing crew members, and then 


 turned the fully-fueled planes into missiles, flying them 


 into the World Trade Center twin towers, the Pentagon and a 


 field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. 3,000 of our fellow human 


 beings died in two hours. The nation's commercial aviation 


 system ground to a halt. Lower Manhattan was turned into a 


 war zone, shutting down the New York Stock Exchange for days 


 and causing tens of thousands of residents and workers to be 


 displaced. In nine months, an estimated 50,000 rescue and 


 recovery workers willingly exposed themselves to toxic 


 conditions to dig out the ravaged remains of their fellow 


 citizens buried in 1.8 million tons of twisted steel and 


 concrete.



 The American people were rightly outraged by this act of 


 war. Whether the cause was retribution or simple recognition 


 of our common humanity, the words ''Never Forget'' were 


 invoked in tearful or angry rectitude, defiantly written in 


 the dust of Ground Zero or humbly penned on makeshift 


 memorials erected all across the land. The country was united 


 in its determination that these acts should not go unmarked 


 and unpunished.



 Eight long years have passed since that dark and terrible 


 day. Sadly, some have forgotten the promises we made to those 


 whose lives were taken in such a cruel and vicious manner.



 We have not forgotten. We are the husbands and wives, 


 mothers and fathers, sons, daughters, sisters, brothers and 


 other family members of the victims of these depraved and 


 barbaric attacks, and we feel a profound obligation to ensure 


 that justice is done on their behalf. It is incomprehensible 


 to us that members of the United States Congress would 


 propose that the same men who today refer to the murder of 


 our loved ones as a ''blessed day'' and who targeted the 


 United States Capitol for the same kind of destruction that 


 was wrought in New York, Virginia and Pennsylvania, should be 


 the beneficiaries of a social compact of which they are not a 


 part, do not recognize, and which they seek to destroy: the 


 United States Constitution.



 We adamantly oppose prosecuting the 9/11 conspirators in 


 Article III courts, which would provide them with the very 


 rights that may make it possible for them to escape the 


 justice which they so richly deserve. We believe that 


 military commissions, which have a long and honorable history 


 in this country dating back to the Revolutionary War, are the 


 appropriate legal forum for the individuals who declared war 


 on America. With utter disdain for all norms of decency and 


 humanity, and in defiance of the laws of warfare accepted by 


 all civilized nations, these individuals targeted tens of 


 thousands of civilian non-combatants, brutally killing 3,000 


 men, women and children, injuring thousands more, and 


 terrorizing millions.



 We support Senate Amendment 2669 (pursuant to H.R. 2847, 


 the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Act of 2010), 


 ''prohibiting the use of funds for the prosecution in Article 


 III courts of the United States of individuals involved in 


 the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.'' We urge its 


 passage by all those members of the United States Senate who 


 stood on the senate floor eight years ago and declared that 


 the perpetrators of these attacks would answer to the 


 American people. The American people will not understand why 


 those same senators now vote to allow our cherished federal 


 courts to be manipulated and used as a stage by the 


 ''mastermind of 9/11'' and his co-conspirators to condemn 


 this nation and rally their fellow terrorists the world over. 


 As one New York City police detective, who lost 60 fellow 


 officers on 9/11, told members of the Department of Justice's 


 Detainee Policy Task Force at a meeting last June, ''You 


 people are out of touch. You need to hear the locker room 


 conversations of the people who patrol your streets and fight 


 your wars.''



 The President of the United States has stated that military 


 commissions, promulgated by congressional legislation and 


 recently reformed with even greater protections for 


 defendants, are a legal and appropriate forum to try 


 individuals captured pursuant the 2001 Authorization for the 


 Use of Military Force Act, passed by Congress in response to 


 the attack on America. Nevertheless, on May 21, 2009, 


 President Obama announced a new policy that Al-Qaeda 


 terrorists should be tried in Article III courts ''whenever 


 feasible.''



 We strongly object to the President creating a two-tier 


 system of justice for terrorists in which those responsible 


 for the death of thousands on 9/11 will be treated as common 


 criminals and afforded the kind of platinum due process 


 accorded American citizens, yet members of Al Qaeda who 


 aspire to kill Americans but who do not yet have blood on 


 their hands, will be treated as war criminals. The President 


 offers no explanation or justification for this 


 contradiction, even as he readily acknowledges that the 


 9/11 conspirators, now designated ''unprivileged enemy 


 belligerents,'' are appropriately accused of war crimes. We 


 believe that this two-tier system, in which war criminals 


 receive more due process protections than would-be war 


 criminals, will be mocked and rejected in the court of world 


 opinion as an ill-conceived contrivance aimed, not at 


 justice, but at the appearance moral authority.



 The public has a right to know that prosecuting the 9/11 


 conspirators in federal courts will result in a plethora of 


 legal and procedural problems that will severely limit or 


 even jeopardize the successful prosecution of their cases. 


 Ordinary criminal trials do not allow for the exigencies 


 associated with combatants captured in war, in which evidence 


 is not collected with CSI-type chain-of-custody standards. 


 None of the 9/11 conspirators were given the Miranda warnings 


 mandated in Article III courts. Prosecutors contend that the 


 lengthy, self-incriminating tutorials Khalid Sheikh Mohammed 


 and others gave to CIA interrogators about 9/11 and other 


 terrorist operations--called ''pivotal for the war against 


 Al-Qaeda'' in a recently released, declassified 2005 CIA 


 report--may be excluded in federal trials. Further, unlike 


 military commissions, all of the 9/11 cases will be 


 vulnerable in federal court to defense motions that their 


 prosecutions violate the Speedy Trial Act. Indeed, the judge 


 presiding in the case of Ahmed Ghailani, accused of 


 participating in the 1998 bombing of the American Embassy in 


 Kenya, killing 212 people, has asked for that issue to be 


 briefed by the defense. Ghailani was indicted in 1998, 


 captured in Pakistan in 2004, and held at Guantanamo Bay 


 until 2009.



 Additionally, federal rules risk that classified evidence 


 protected in military commissions would be exposed in 


 criminal trials, revealing intelligence sources and methods 


 and compromising foreign partners, who will be unwilling to 


 join with the United States in future secret or covert 


 operations if doing so will risk exposure in the dangerous 


 and hostile communities where they operate. This poses a 


 clear and present danger to the public. The safety and 


 security of the American people is the President's and 


 Congress's highest duty.



 Former Attorney General Michael Mukasey recently wrote in 


 the Wall Street Journal that ''the challenges of terrorism 


 trials are overwhelming.'' Mr. Mukasey, formerly a federal 


 judge in the Southern District of New York, presided over the 


 multi-defendant terrorism prosecution of Sheikh Omar Abel 


 Rahman, the cell that attacked the World Trade Center in 1993 


 and conspired to attack other New York landmarks. In addition 


 to the evidentiary problems cited above, he expressed concern 


 about courthouse and jail facility security, the need for 


 anonymous jurors to be escorted under armed guard, the 


 enormous costs associated with the use of U.S. marshals 


 necessarily deployed from other jurisdictions, and the danger 


 to the community which, he says, will become a target for 


 homegrown terrorist sympathizers or embedded Al Qaeda cells.



 Finally, there is the sickening prospect of men like Khalid 


 Sheikh Mohammed being brought to the federal courthouse in 


 Lower Manhattan, or the courthouse in Alexandria, Virginia, 


 just a few blocks away from the scene of carnage eight years 


 ago, being given a Constitutionally mandated platform upon 


 which he can mock his victims, exult in the suffering of 


 their families, condemn the judge and his own lawyers, and 


 rally his followers to continue jihad against the men and 


 women of the U.S. military, fighting and dying in the sands 


 of Iraq and the mountains of Afghanistan on behalf of us all.



 There is no guarantee that Mr. Mohammed and his co-


 conspirators will plead guilty, as in the case of Zacarias 


 Moussaoui, whose prosecution nevertheless took four years, 


 and who is currently attempting to recant that plea. Their 


 attorneys will be given wide latitude to mount a defense that 


 turns the trial into a shameful circus aimed at vilifying 


 agents of the CIA for alleged acts of ''torture,'' casting 


 the American government and our valiant military as a force 


 of evil instead of a force for good in places of the Muslim 


 world where Al Qaeda and the Taliban are waging a brutal war 


 against them and the local populations. For the families of 


 those who died on September 11, the most obscene aspect of 


 giving Constitutional protections to those who planned the 


 attacks with the intent of inflicting maximum terror on their 


 victims in the last moments of their lives will be the 


 opportunities this affords defense lawyers to cast their 


 clients as victims.



 Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and his co-conspirators are asking 


 to plead guilty, now, before a duly-constituted military 


 commission. We respectfully ask members of Congress, why 


 don't we let them?





 Respectfully submitted,



 (Signed by 249 Family members).
