---
---

# REQUIRING A REPORT SETTING FORTH THE GLOBAL STRATEGY OF THE UNITED  STATES TO COMBAT AND DEFEAT AL QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATES--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `10e863b349d016384bc02a6624327fcf`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I, too, rise in support of this 
outstanding bill. The bottom line is, despite what the President said 
today, most Americans feel we are in an economically difficult times. 
The President says we are not in recession. The President doesn't think 
we are going in recession. For most, the debate is not whether we are 
or will be in recession but how deep it will be.

So the bottom line is very simple: We have to do something about this 
economy. There is no better way to turn the economy around, to prevent 
the recession from being long and deep, than dealing with the housing 
market because housing is at the center of the economic problems we 
have today. Housing is the bull's-eye at which we should aim if we want 
to rectify the economy.

The proposal before us is a good one. It has five important measures. 
They are modest, but they are thoughtful, and they are aimed right at 
where the problem is.

Now, our colleagues on the other side of the aisle are probably going 
to block our proposal. They are becoming the ''Dr. No'' of this 
Congress. We have a crisis; everyone knows housing is at the heart of 
the crisis. No one believes the administration's voluntary ideas have 
worked. Yet we are hearing we shouldn't do anything that is 
governmental. That makes no sense.

Early this week we heard stay the course on the war in Iraq. Now we 
hear stay the course in terms of the economy. Don't you hear it? The 
American people want a change in course, a change in direction. We are 
trying to present that to them in a nonconfrontational way, in a way we 
had hoped and thought would be bipartisan. Because when we put this 
proposal together, we realized there were a couple of provisions--
particularly the bankruptcy provision--that others objected to, but the 
rest of the provisions seemed quite unobjectionable. Yet here we are 
hearing, for instance, from the administration that we don't need more 
housing counselors because we have already allocated $180 million. That 
was our proposal. In fact, I originated it and had good help from 
Senator Brown and Senator Casey and then Senator Murray, who helped put 
it into the omnibus bill. But of that $180 million, $130 million is 
gone already. It shows you the need. Do we need some more mortgage 
revenue bonds? Many States are tapped out and cannot help mortgagors, 
even if they wanted to. Loss carry forwards will help those who build 
homes move forward for getting out of the housing recession. Yet the 
administration and most of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
seem to just say no.

My colleague from Georgia has a very interesting proposal that I 
would certainly entertain. What we ought to be doing on this bill is 
having a debate, offering amendments relevant to housing--not the 
future of the country and not whether we should extend the President's 
tax cuts or the estate tax; that is irrelevant to this bill--but having 
a debate on provisions such as those in our bill, debate on the 
provisions such as the ones from the Senator from Georgia and come up 
with a product that can help move us forward. Instead, all we hear from 
the minority leader is no, no, no, no.

The economy is in a degree of serious trouble. The housing market is 
at the core of that trouble. There are 2 million homeowners who will be 
foreclosed upon, most of whom through no fault of their own. Those 
foreclosures will help bring the economy further down. Why don't we do 
something careful, targeted, modest, and not terribly expensive?

The only thing I hear from the President anyway is: Well, Government 
shouldn't be involved. That is the reasoning of maybe McKinley, maybe 
Hoover but certainly not Republicans in the post World War II era. All 
of a sudden, we are having a throwback to these earlier days. 
Unfortunately, if we adhere to that kind of thinking, the boom and bust 
cycles that have plagued the American family will continue.

So I urge this administration to change its mind. I urge my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle who seek a degree of 
bipartisanship to reach out to us and work with us. We will modify our 
provisions, change some, maybe even drop one or two to get a good 
product. Please don't just say no. Please don't say the only thing we 
should debate is the same thing we have debated before: whether we 
should extend the President's tax cuts. We have been there, done that. 
We have new problems and we need a new direction. This bill begins to 
provide it. I hope my colleagues will support it.

I yield the floor.