---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `10f062485e66fab8a8172a1a24813ab6`
`Ms. HARMAN — 14 November 2007`

---


Ms. HARMAN. Mr. Speaker, one need look no further than the chaos in 
Pakistan or the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan to understand 
that troop levels in Iraq cannot be maintained--and that the surge, 
which I have always opposed, has done nothing to achieve political 
stability.

Today, with this bridge funding vote, Congress signals to the White 
House yet again that enough is enough, that the combat mission in Iraq 
must end, and that we will force that change.

No one in this chamber questions the courage or commitment of our 
brave women and men in uniform or their willingness to tackle


any challenge put before them. But we have sent them on an ill-defined 
mission with no apparent end point, and which consumes staggering 
amounts of our talent and treasure at the expense of countless other 
priorities.

This bill also redresses a glaring loophole in the Military 
Commissions Act--a bill I strongly opposed. By requiring that all U.S. 
Government agencies and personnel must adhere to interrogation 
techniques contained in the Army Field Manual, we send an unmistakable 
signal to the rest of the world that the United States--the world's 
oldest functioning democracy--does not permit cruel, inhumane and 
degrading practices, or torture, and complies fully with Federal law 
banning torture and our international obligations.

The Iraq Troop Redeployment Bill is good policy, and long overdue.