# None
## `10f7b012a312b141f178daeb64199b15`
`Mr. KING of Iowa â€” 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Georgia. And I just left 
a table of marines that are all on multiple tours of duty in Iraq or 
Afghanistan, and a couple of them were decorated with Purple Hearts and 
serving in places like Fallujah. And you look them in the eye, and you 
see what they're asking us to do: Just back us. Just stand behind us. 
Don't undermine us. Stand behind us.

I take us back to the Vietnam war. I picked up the book written by 
General Giap, who was credited with what they call their victory for 
the Vietnamese, for North Vietnam. In that book on page 8, as I recall 
the page, page 8, there's a little phrase in there where he says they 
got our first inkling that we could defeat the United States when we 
saw that they didn't press for a total victory in Korea. A negotiated 
settlement in Korea gave Vietnam the inspiration to fight the war 
against us not only on the ground in Vietnam, where they paid multiple 
prices in lives beyond ours, but to do it in the public airwaves across 
the country. The protests that went on in the streets here and across 
in Europe were all part of their war strategy. The liberal media 
undermining the effort was all part of their war strategy. That doesn't 
mean they called the shots for the media, but they were complicit in 
this. And as the will of the American people was broken down by biased 
information and sometimes misinformation, they understood this: The 
bottom line in the book Principles of War by von Clausewitz, a summary 
of his analysis is the object of war is to defeat the will of the 
enemy.

So the voices that come out from this side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, 
are the voices of defeat, not the voices of victory. They are 
undermining the will of the American people. The press is playing into 
that. We should be standing with our troops.

And I walked down the steps in the Cannon building, and I presume he 
was a veteran. He reached up and he said, ''Support our troops,'' and 
shook my hand. And I said, ''I will and I will continue to be there.'' 
But I missed a beat or I would have said ''and their mission'' because 
you can't support the troops without supporting their mission. You 
can't ask people to go off and put their lives on the line for 
something you don't believe in.

I believe in this. The Iraqi people believe in this. And today they 
know something they didn't know a year ago or 4 years ago, two big 
points that they understand, that's part of their national 
understanding: One is the Americans and the coalition forces are not 
there to occupy. We don't want to be there to occupy. We want them to 
have their freedom. The second thing is we're not there for the oil, or 
we would have taken it by now. We want the Iraqi people to live and 
breathe free.

Yesterday I had a lunch with an individual who was instrumental in 
bringing Benazir Bhutto to Iowa as she gave a keynote address shortly 
after September 11. I sat down with her on a couch afterwards one on 
one, and I asked her, How do we get to the point of victory? How do we 
defeat al Qaeda and our enemy?

And her answer was, You've got to give them freedom. You've got to 
give them a chance at democracy. If you do that, they'll change their 
focus from hatred towards taking care of their families, their 
communities, their neighborhoods, their jobs, and their mosques.


And I look back on that conversation. Sadly, we have lost her, her 
voice for freedom, but there is a piece of wisdom in that that the 
American people need to understand. Iraqi people are now breathing 
free. They weren't free before. The Afghani people are breathing free. 
They weren't free there ever. Today there are 50 million people that 
are free because of the sacrifice of U.S. and coalition troops and 
because of the inspiration that we provide for the world, and that is a 
very big thing to hand on to the next generations.

And as we watch the Bush administration move towards that last month 
in office, and we have many months to go yet, but when it gets to that 
point, I'm going to say this: I believe history will treat President 
Bush a lot more kindly than the media has treated him in this time when 
they write objectively what it means to have the strong leadership in 
the Commander in Chief, to have an all-volunteer military that's doing 
a better job than we could have ever asked anybody to do, and they say 
let us finish our task. The Iraqis say let us finish our task. They're 
paying their price. We need to hold up our end of this bargain, and we 
need to support General Petraeus.

And I yield back to the gentleman from Georgia, and I thank him.