# None
## `10fc06718c0b3c52d93ab6a30c756db6`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 24 February 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the Senate is debating whether to have a 
vote this week on a very important bill called the District of Columbia 
House Voting Rights Act of 2009. This bill would finally give voting 
rights to the people of the District of Columbia after 200 years. I am 
a cosponsor and supporter of this measure; I have been since the 
earlier days of my service in the House.

I find it unimaginable in modern America that 600,000 Americans have 
no voice and no vote in the U.S. Congress. It is a fact. It reflects 
decisions made long ago about whether the District of Columbia and its 
residents would be represented in Congress. There is a good reason they 
should be.

The right to vote is one of the most fundamental in the United 
States. Over a century ago, the Supreme Court called the right to vote 
''a fundamental political right'' and a right that is ''preservative of 
all rights.''

It is unconscionable that we would ask the men and women in the 
District of Columbia to fight and risk their lives so the people of 
Iraq and Afghanistan have the right to vote, but we do not extend that 
same right to the citizens of the District of Columbia.

Seven DC residents have died on the battlefields of Iraq and 
Afghanistan: SPC Darryl Dent, LCpl Greg MacDonald, MAJ Kevin Shea, LTC 
Paul Kimbrough, CPT Darrell Lewis, SGT Randy Lewis Johnson, Jr., and 
SPC Keisha Marie Morgan. They were unable to fully participate in 
democracy in the town from which they came.

Opponents of the DC voting rights bill say they have constitutional 
concerns. They point to language in the Constitution that says the 
House of Representatives will be composed of Members chosen by ''the 
people of the several States.'' They argue that the District of 
Columbia is a district, not a State.

I do not think that is a strong argument. Our Federal judiciary has 
long treated the District of Columbia as a State for many purposes. For 
example, DC residents pay Federal income tax, serve on Federal juries, 
and register for Selective Service. Why should the right to vote be 
different?

Do opponents of DC voting rights believe that residents of America's 
Capital City should bear the full responsibilities of citizenship but 
not deserve the full rights of citizenship?

It is not just Democrats who believe the DC voting bill is 
constitutional. Many prominent Republicans agree. I am pleased that a 
half dozen of my Senate Republican colleagues have voted in the past 
for this bill. Listen to the words of conservative constitutional 
scholar Kenneth Starr. It is not often I have quoted him. He is not 
someone with whom I frequently see eye to eye. He coauthored a 
Washington Post op-ed and said:




 There is nothing in our Constitution's history or its 


 fundamental principles suggesting that the Framers intended 


 to deny the precious right to vote to those who live in the 


 capital of the great democracy they founded.


I conclude by saying that I have served in the Senate now for a 
little over 12 years and the House 14 years before. I have seen the 
Congress treat the District of Columbia many times in a way that I 
found unacceptable, sometimes embarrassing. There are many Members of 
Congress whose obvious lifelong ambition is to serve as the mayor of a 
city--they cannot wait to be the Mayor of the District of Columbia--by 
the laws we pass on the floor of the House and Senate. We have denied 
to these people a voice in that process. We have made basic and 
fundamental decisions for the residents of this city which many of us 
never would have imposed on the city we represent. But they have been 
used as a laboratory for political debate and political experiment.

It is time that the people of this great Capital City have a voice in 
the Halls of Congress, at least in the House of Representatives. This 
bill is an important step forward in extending the opportunity for 
participation in our democracy and the opportunity for freedom. In this 
21st century, we can do no less. I hope the new day, the change we are 
seeing in America, will be seen in the District of Columbia soon when 
they are given the right to have a voice in the Congress.

I yield the floor.