---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `10fdd834fd99ce32713053afd58864f8`
`Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this 
legislation, thanking both Congressman Murtha and Congressman Obey for 
their work.

It has now been 4 years since this war started, over 3 years since we 
heard the phrase ''mission accomplished,'' and almost a year and half 
since the Iraqi elections for a permanent government--it is time for 
the Iraqi government to police, govern, and run its country. This bill 
also provides more support for our veterans and military healthcare.

This legislation will provide funding for our troops, but it will 
also force the Iraqis to take control of their own country, and bring 
our troops home within the next 18 months--possibly sooner, if the 
Iraqis do not meet benchmarks that demonstrate they are making 
progress.

Our commitment in Iraq, which grew under the President's surge plan 
last month, has strained our military, cost thousands of U.S. and Iraqi 
lives, and has created serious readiness problems in the Army and 
Marine Corps.

I don't like the idea of setting a timeline, but for 4 years we have 
had an open-ended commitment, and after those 4 years, we are still 
seeing some of the bloodiest attacks, and highest casualty numbers to 
date. We need to set benchmarks to force the Iraqis to take over their 
own country, and this bill does that. It is not pulling our troops out 
immediately--if Iraqis rise to this responsibility, we will have troops 
there for another 18 months, but if they don't, we will begin 
redeployment this year.

After 4 years, it is time Congress exercise authority over the way 
this war is being run. Congress is not 535 commanders in chief, but we 
must provide guidance on what we will ask the American taxpayers to 
fund. We have held dozens of hearings this year, and passed a non-
binding resolution opposing the escalation or surge in U.S. troops. Our 
vote on this Supplemental will be another step in bringing a resolution 
to this conflict and will let the Iraqis know our commitment is not 
open-ended.

I applaud the leadership and Appropriations committee on bringing 
this bill to the floor, and I urge my colleagues to join me in 
supporting it.