---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2918,  LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `1100610f13b4b5e071f3606de589ec8e`
`Mr. DREIER — 25 September 2009`

---


Mr. DREIER. Madam Speaker, if I could reclaim my time, let me say to 
my friend that the American people get it. They understand that ACORN 
is responsible for its own actions. They have seen what has taken 
place. It has been outrageous behavior. And the notion of somehow 
standing here and defending that when we are dealing with the funding 
bills themselves, the appropriations process, is just plain wrong.

Let me also say to my friend from Worcester managing this measure 
that he responded to my remarks by saying that he didn't want to have 
lectures given and he was tired of excuses being made. You know, the 
American people get it, too. The notion of pointing the finger of blame 
back and forth is not what they want.

Children make excuses and get slapped down by their parents. That has 
happened to me as a kid. It happens to everybody. And the idea of 
standing here saying, Well, we were lectured here and excuses are being 
made, so we somehow can continue to do what it is that we want to do. 
Well, Madam Speaker, I have to tell you that we didn't do things 
perfectly, but the fact of the matter is we didn't shut down the 
appropriations process. We did not shut down the appropriations 
process, denying Democrats and Republicans the opportunity to 
participate, as has been the case throughout the history of our 
country, and I think it's just plain wrong to do that. And the American 
people get that, too.

So we're not providing any lecturing. We're just saying regular 
order. The rules of the House should be followed, and they have been 
ignored consistently.



When one looks at the statements that have been made by many of our 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle who were critical of us when 
we were in the majority, it's incredible to see that they have taken 
and ramped up, ramped up the kind of behavior that they criticized on 
our part.

In fact, on the fiscal year 2000 measure, the fiscal year 2000 
measure, as the Legislative Branch Appropriations bill was moving 
through, the ranking member of the Committee on Appropriations, the now 
chairman of the Committee on Appropriations, Mr. Obey, said, in talking 
about the Legislative Branch bill, This bill should not be passed until 
we know how deep the cuts that are being made contemplated for 
veterans, for education, for health care, and other areas of major 
responsibility to our people. Because, in the end, if this bill is one 
of the first out of the gate and signed into law before the other cuts 
are made, then the American people are really going to have a right to 
ask whether we are more concerned with taking care of ourselves than we 
are with taking care of their own problems.

Those are the words of the chairman of the Appropriations Committee 
today, who is utilizing the ''putting Congress first,'' the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations bill, as the first measure for tying the 
continuing resolution to that. And I think that it's a very, very 
unfortunate thing.

When we had an exchange up in the Rules Committee, I asked the 
distinguished Chair, As we look at our priorities--homeland security, 
veterans, our men and women in uniform who are in Iraq and 
Afghanistan--and we have now chosen that the priority for passage is 
the funding for the Congress of the United States, the distinguished 
Chair's response was, Uh-huh. Right. She said, That's it.

And so here we are, putting Congress first, when the American people 
believe we should be focusing on our border security, the threat of 
terrorism, funding for our troops. Those should be the priorities that 
we have. And the notion of standing here, Madam Speaker, having 
subverted the opportunity for the American people, Democrats and 
Republicans alike, to be heard in this appropriations so that we could 
get everything done by September 30, when we failed to meet that, is 
just plain wrong.

With that, I reserve the balance of my time.