---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2011
## `110965dd03b8d0731c0f0f023a96f34a`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 28 July 2010`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Madam Chair, I rise in support of H.R. 5822, 
the Fiscal Year 2011 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act. It is with great pride that I 
serve on this subcommittee and I want to commend my colleague from 
Texas, Mr. Edwards, the Chairman of the Subcommittee, and our ranking 
member, my colleague from Tennessee, Mr. Wamp, for their work in 
putting together this legislation.

The men and women of our armed forces and our veterans deserve the 
very best support and care that we can offer them and this bill 
achieves that. This legislation fulfills our commitment to their future 
and to their well being.

We include in this appropriations bill $57.0 billion in funding for 
veterans programs, an increase of $3.9 billion over the level of 
funding we provided last year. These funds will address some of the 
major problems our Nation has in addressing the needs of our veterans, 
including those with mental illness, traumatic brain injuries, the 
homeless, and the disabled who are forced to wait countless months and 
even years to resolve their disability claims.

The largest portion of this funding, $48.8 billion, is for veterans 
medical care. It will enable the VA doctors and staff to treat an 
estimated 6.1 million patients, including thousands of Iraq and 
Afghanistan veterans. We also continue our emphasis on mental health 
and medical services for our returning heroes who are suffering from 
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and Traumatic Brain Injuries.

We also increase by 20 percent to $4.2 billion our commitment to 
providing housing and medical services to our homeless veterans. We 
must do better in providing transitional housing and serves to these 
American heroes who now find themselves with nowhere to live and 
nowhere to work.

We also provide a 25 percent increase in funding, to $2.6 billion, to 
hire 4,000 additional claims processors to reduce the unacceptable 
backlog in claims for veterans benefits. With this increase in staffing 
levels, our Committee will have added more than 10,200 new claims 
processors over the past four years.

Our committee's support has also been vital to my efforts to continue 
to support the work of the medical professionals at the Bay Pines VA 
Healthcare System, which I have the privilege to represent.

We have opened at Bay Pines one of our Nation's most active VA 
Inspector General operations, to ferret out waste, fraud and abuse in 
veterans programs and to ensure that every dollar we appropriate to 
care for our veterans is spent as intended.

We have also been able to speed up work on the construction of a 
brand new facility to treat veterans with mental illness and Post 
Traumatic Syndrome Disorder. We also have broken ground thin year on a 
new Ambulatory Surgery Center and Eye Treatment facility at Bay Pines, 
work is well underway on a new facility to provide radiation treatment 
for cancer patients, and we have opened two new VA medical clinics in 
northern and southern Pinellas County to better serve veterans and 
their medical needs closer to their homes.

Finally, Madam Chair, I want to thank the members of the subcommittee 
for accepting my amendment to this legislation to ensure that we fix 
the problems associated with the national embarrassment that we find at 
Arlington National Cemetery. The committee has included $150 million in 
the bill to address the many problems, those which we already know 
about and those which we have yet to find out about, at Arlington. My 
amendment would require that the Army develop a clear timetable and 
specify their plan to resolve all identified issues before they can 
spend these funds. We owe no less to our America's fallen heroes for 
whom Arlington is their final resting place and to their families who 
share our shock and outrage at the situation that we find at one of our 
Nation's most sacred places.

Madam Chair, this is a good bill, one that addresses the current and 
future needs of our Nation's veterans. It is also a bill that 
emphasizes what our committee and this House can do when we work 
together in a bipartisan way to solve our problems.

