---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2082, INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR  FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `112b299f06cfd1dc41a8da370ce49e7e`
`Mr. REYES — 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. REYES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Last week was a remarkable week in the intelligence community. It was 
the best of times and the worst of times.

First, the good news. The week began with a release of a new National 
Intelligence Estimate on Iran. That estimate was a careful, meaningful 
review of the intelligence on Iran, which many of us hope will bring 
about a significant change in our approach to Iran, which is still a 
significant concern to all of us.

Then came the bad news. We ended the week with the revelation that 
the Central Intelligence Agency destroyed videotapes of interrogations. 
This is also a subject of great concern to all of us in this House. The 
committee had a briefing on it just yesterday, and we will continue to 
investigate the issue thoroughly.

Both the good news and the bad news have one thing in common. They 
show that careful oversight of the Intelligence Community is absolutely 
essential and absolutely critical. The authorization process is where 
we do much of our oversight and it's where we can address problem 
areas.

Madam Speaker, today, for the first time in 3 years, the House will 
vote on a conference report on an intelligence authorization bill. I am 
proud of it, and I hope my colleagues are too. This is the largest 
intelligence authorization in the history of our country. It is the 
result of 11 months of work done by our committee.

The conference process was a challenge. The Senate bill and the House 
bill were substantially different, but we worked hard to arrive at a 
middle ground. In conference, we further improved the bill. The 
conference adopted amendments offered by Members from both Chambers and 
both parties. This includes an amendment by the distinguished ranking 
member of the intelligence committee.

Madam Speaker, this is a good bill that will strengthen our 
intelligence community and our Nation's security. It adds significant 
funds to most of the Nation's satellite architecture. It reduces 
funding for nonperforming intelligence activities in Iraq, while 
robustly funding activities against al Qaeda and terrorism in 
Afghanistan and around the globe.

I am particularly proud of the fact that it also includes funding for 
counterterrorism, human intelligence collection, analysis, training and 
languages. We have carefully tailored provisions to enhance the 
diversity of the intelligence community, which is a critical investment 
for the future of the intelligence community.

In another investment for the future, we've added significant funding 
for advanced research and development. This will also maintain our 
technical edge over our adversaries. We have also provided money to 
repair and replace aging infrastructure and to train and equip 
linguists and intelligence collectors, so vital and important in the 
global war on terrorism.

This bill promotes accountability within the intelligence community, 
and it puts the intelligence committee back in the business of 
oversight. It requires reporting to Congress on several issues of major 
concern to all of us, including a report on compliance with the 
Detainee Treatment Act of 2005 and related provisions of the Military 
Commissions Act of 2006 regarding detentions and interrogations, as 
well as Justice Department legal opinions related to all of these 
activities. It includes provisions to strengthen oversight by the 
Inspector General in the intelligence community, including a provision 
establishing a confirmed communitywide Inspector General armed with 
essential authorities.

The conference report also provides for Senate confirmation of the 
Directors of the National Security Agency and the National 
Reconnaissance Office. For agencies with such significant budgets and 
acquisition authority and the potential to impact American privacy 
rights, we think the Congress ought to have a say in their Directors 
through Senate confirmation.

In short, Madam Speaker, the conference report is a result of a 
bipartisan, bicameral effort to strengthen both the intelligence 
community and congressional oversight. I will be proud to vote for it, 
and I urge all my colleagues to do the same.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.