# EXECUTIVE SESSION F_____
## `1133f42eb6bb47ede23513d397d8050f`
`Mr. CARDIN — 16 December 2010`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, as we take up the consideration of the 
New START, we not only have the opportunity, but also an obligation to 
provide consent on the ratification of this treaty. It is long overdue. 
We need to regain our ability to provide boots-on-the-ground 
verification of the Russian nuclear complex.

Over the past 8 months, we have all had ample opportunity to review 
the documents and reports related to the New START. We have conducted 
20 hearings, taken over 900 questions. They were questions asked by 
Members of the Senate, mainly to the administration, in which those 
answers have been provided; 900 questions, over 900 for the record.

In short, we have given significant consideration to the ratification 
of New START. I know my colleagues on both sides of the aisle are 
committed to guaranteeing the security of our country and also 
recognize the obligation to ratify this arms control agreement 
immediately.

I want to take you back a little bit because I hear my colleagues 
talking about not having enough time. I want to take you back to a hot 
day this summer in the Foreign Relations Committee, where--Madam 
President, you were at that meeting in which those who are now saying 
we do not have enough time, asked for just a little bit more time, 
during the impending recess, so we could orderly consider the 
ratification process.

That was a hot summer day. It is now a snowy day in December, and 
they are still saying the same thing: Just give us more time. We have 
had plenty of time.

I compliment Senator Kerry and Senator Lugar for the manner in which 
they have considered this treaty. This is a very important treaty for 
America, and they have made sure that the Senate has had, and each 
Senator has had, ample opportunity to get all of the information we 
need--all of the information we need from administration individuals or 
from experts or from anyone. They have been very open in this process.

They have also given every Member of the Senate ample time to get 
every question answered, to get all of the material they need, and it 
is now time for us to take on our responsibility; that is, to take up 
this treaty for ratification and vote it up or down.

I certainly hope my colleagues will vote to ratify this treaty. I 
think it is critically important to our national security. In addition 
to its contributions to American security, one of the most compelling 
reasons we should ratify this treaty, and do so before we recess, is to 
regain our insight into Russia's strategic offensive arms.

Since START I expired over a year ago, we have had no comprehensive 
verification regime in place in order to help us understand Russia's 
strategic nuclear force. We need the transparency to know what Russia 
is doing to provide confidence and stability, and we need that 
confidence and stability to contribute to a safer world. We will


only regain that transparency by ratifying this treaty, and we are in 
dangerous territory without it.

Let me repeat. We need this treaty for verification. We need this 
treaty to know what Russia is doing, so we can verify what Russia tells 
us, to make sure, in fact, that it is true. Not only will this treaty 
enhance the national security of the United States, it will serve as a 
significant step forward in our relationship with Russia, a key partner 
in the overall U.S. strategy to reduce the spread of nuclear weapons 
worldwide.

Let's be perfectly clear about this. There are still two nations that 
have the majority of the nuclear weapon capacity in this world; it is 
Russia and the United States. Working together, we can make this world 
safer. Working together, we can move forward with reductions in 
strategic arms around the world. Working together, we provide the 
leadership so we can move forward against proliferation of nuclear 
weapons. In fact, we have done that.

But the failure to ratify this treaty could have a major negative 
impact on the leadership of the United States in this area. The U.S. 
relationship with the Russian Federation is key in our efforts to 
curtail Iran's nuclear ambitions. In June, Russia voted for the latest 
U.N. Security Council sanctions on Iran and later canceled the sale of 
an advanced arms defensive missile system.

The ratification of New START is essential in reinitiating 
verification inspections and, more importantly, for the United States 
and Russia to lead the way in reducing the world's nuclear arms 
stockpile. This is for leadership. We all talk about making sure Iran 
does not become a nuclear weapons state. Ratifying the New START treaty 
will help us in making sure Iran does not become a nuclear weapons 
state. It keeps the United States and Russia focused on strategic arms 
reduction and focused on nonproliferation.

The failure to ratify this treaty is a setback in our ability to 
effectively stop Iran from becoming a nuclear weapons state. New START, 
the first treaty with Russia in almost a decade, calls for both sides 
to reduce their deployed warheads modestly from 2,200 to 1,550. The new 
treaty would restore verification, inspections, and other exchanges of 
information about the American and Russian arsenals. New START could 
pay dividends not only by improving nuclear security but by paving the 
way to greater cooperation between the two powers in dealing with such 
hot spots as Iran and Afghanistan.

Let me just point out one other part, if I might; that is, previous 
arms treaties have been ratified with overwhelming bipartisan support. 
START I was passed 93 to 6 in 1994. The Moscow Treaty passed 95 to 0 in 
2003. Legislators recognized then that arms control agreements between 
Russia and the United States are not just good for the security of our 
two nations but can lead the way to the world to reduce proliferation 
of nuclear weapons.

During last month's NATO Summit in Lisbon, the NATO Secretary General 
stated:




 The New START treaty would also pave the way for arms 


 control and disarmament initiatives and other areas that are 


 vital to Euro-Atlantic security.


So I think this is a key moment in the history of the Senate. I know 
there are many important votes that we take in the Senate. There are 
many votes we take that have very significant consequences. The 
ratification of this treaty is just one of those moments. It keeps us 
on path and enhances our credibility to make the world safer, and does 
it in a way that enhances the security of the people of the United 
States of America.

This is a treaty that needs to be ratified and needs to be ratified 
now. I urge my colleagues to vote in the interests of national 
security, to move swiftly, and pass this treaty.

I yield the floor.