---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP: THE ECONOMY
## `11412dae61bba80336586f5a1f47742c`
`Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin — 23 January 2008`

---


Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Thank you so much, Representative.

I rise, Madam Speaker, to memorialize another of my constituents, 
Private First Class Keith Lloyd, who died of wounds suffered when the 
vehicle he was in struck a roadside bomb in Iraq at the tender age of 
26 on January 12.

He was born in Milwaukee. He went to elementary school in Milwaukee 
prior to his family moving to Oak Creek and then to South Milwaukee. 
Lloyd graduated from South Milwaukee High School in my district in 2000 
and worked in a number of retail stores. He also took courses at 
Milwaukee Area Technical College in Oak Creek and ITT Technical 
Institute in Milwaukee.

According to media reports, as a teen, Private First Class Lloyd was 
not crazy about high school, but he never shirked the responsibility 
that came with it. After graduation he wasn't quite sure what career 
path to take, like many high school graduates, including myself.

Finally, as a young man, he decided to follow the path of his younger 
brother, who had just completed a tour of duty in Iraq with the United 
States Army. According to his sister Christine, he was looking for 
direction. He wanted to make something of himself and thought the Army 
was a good place to do that. He enlisted in March 2007, and, indeed, he 
made much of his life and paid the ultimate price for us, his fellow 
Americans.

This was a young man who did not want to sit on the bench and let 
life pass him by.

His sister also noted that he had a big heart and would do anything 
for anybody.

Private First Class Lloyd deployed to Iraq in November as a member of 
the 1st Squadron, 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment based in Fort Hood, 
Texas.

Yesterday Private First Class Lloyd was laid to rest at Good Hope 
Cemetery in Milwaukee.

Madam Speaker, I wish to express my deepest sympathy and condolences 
to the family of Private First Class Lloyd today: his sister, 
Christine; brother Thomas; his mom, Cynthia Allam; his dad and 
stepmother, Gary and Joanne Lloyd; sister Cora Lloyd; and brothers 
Kraig, Gary, and Joshua Lloyd.

These men certainly made the lives of those around them better day by 
day and exemplified the character and qualities that enrich our 
communities and our Nation. This is indeed a sad day for the Nation. 
While as the Bible says, ''each heart knows its own grief'' and I 
cannot possibly understand the grief their families are going through 
today, I offer this timely tribute today to express the gratitude of a 
Nation and my condolences on their loss.