# None
## `115127a2ab2fde72754605d7d9110584`
`Mr. BONNER — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. BONNER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of a brave, 
young man who recently made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of his 
country while helping to spread freedom abroad.

Army SPC Robert Matthew McDowell, a young man whose family lives in 
Mobile, was on his second tour of duty in Iraq. He served as a military 
policeman and was based at Fort Drum, New York, with the Army's 10th 
Mountain Division.

Matt recently returned to Iraq after being on leave for the birth of 
his son, Nathan Matthew McDowell. One of the last photos made of Matt 
was of him holding his newborn baby boy in his proud, loving arms. It 
is a photo that, no doubt, young Nathan Matthew will look back on with 
great pride in the years to come.

Unfortunately, Matt was serving as the gunner on a heavy-duty Army 
vehicle on patrol in Baghdad--a very dangerous assignment--when 
insurgents detonated an improvised explosive device.

Madam Speaker, at this difficult time, it is only appropriate for us 
to pause and give thanks to God that there are still young men like 
Matt McDowell.

His life and actions personify the very best America has to offer. I 
know his many friends and family, as well as his comrades in the United 
States Army, while mourning the loss of this fine young man, are also 
taking this opportunity to remember his many accomplishments and to 
recall the fine gift they each received simply from knowing him and 
having him as an integral part of their lives.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to take a moment and pay tribute 
to SPC Matt McDowell and his selfless devotion to not only our country 
and the freedom we enjoy but to a people who are in the demanding but 
important stages of a new life--a new freedom--in their own land.

We should also remember his wife, Daniella McDowell; his daughter, 
Madison McDowell, his son, Nathan McDowell; his father and stepmother, 
Kim and LaDonna McDowell; his mother, Kathy Jo Kallahan; his brother, 
Michael McDowell; his four stepbrothers, Neal Dickman, Andy Dickman, 
Tyler Dickman, and Grant Dickman; and his other relatives and many 
friends. Our prayer is that God will give them the strength and courage 
that only He can provide to sustain them during the difficult days 
ahead.

Madam Speaker, Matt's daughter, Madison, recently wrote a poem about 
her Dad. With your permission, I would like to add it into the 
Congressional Record:






 My Daddy's not your average Dad


 He's different from the rest


 He wears a special uniform


 He has medals upon his chest



 My Daddy's not your average Dad


 He's a HERO in the Army


 Although I don't see him much


 His love always surrounds me



 My Daddy's not your average Dad


 He's in a special place


 He watches me from heaven


 With a smile upon his face



 My Daddy's not your average Dad


 He is always here with me


 He holds my hand when I go outside


 Although no one else can see



 My Daddy's not your average Dad


 He fought for me and you


 I'm so very proud of you Dad


 And I love and miss you too!



 I love you Daddy,


 Madison McDowell (Roswell, NM)


Madam Speaker, it was Joseph Campbell who said, ''A hero is someone 
who has given his or her life to something bigger than oneself.''

Make no mistake, Army SPC Robert Matthew McDowell was not only a 
dedicated soldier who made the ultimate sacrifice serving in the 
uniform of his country, but he was also a true American hero. May he 
rest in peace.
