---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO HOUSE AMENDMENT TO
## `115128e9261b67162f2ccd93b4cebb7a`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 22 July 2010`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I am appalled, and my 
constituents are appalled, at the Republicans' disrespect and 
coldheartedness when it comes to extending unemployment benefits for 
out-of-work Americans. Some Republican Members of Congress and 
candidates in their party have suggested that unemployment insurance 
makes Americans too lazy to work. One Republican Member of the House 
even asked, ''Is the government now creating hobos?''

Maybe my Republican colleagues don't understand how unemployment 
compensation works. You only qualify for unemployment if you were 
employed. Far from being a handout to someone who doesn't want to work, 
unemployment benefits are specifically designed for people who want to 
work but who can't currently find work.

The Bush recession drove our economy off a cliff creating the worst 
economic conditions since the Great Depression. As a result, millions 
of Americans lost their jobs. Nearly 800,000 Americans lost their jobs 
in the last month of the Bush administration alone. Those are the 
facts.

Now we are beginning to recover from this near economic collapse. 
We've seen steady economic growth, including six straight months of 
private sector job growth, but there are still five unemployed 
Americans looking for work for every one job opening available.

The continued Republican opposition to helping out-of-work Americans 
is preposterous. It flies in the face of history. Since 1959, Congress 
has never let extended unemployment benefits expire when unemployment 
is over 7.2 percent.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle claim that we can't 
afford to help unemployed Americans, but where were they when they ran 
up the deficit by passing tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 percent of 
Americans? Where were they when, year after year, President Bush's 
budget did not include the costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan?

Mr. Speaker, analysis from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget 
Office finds that extending unemployment benefits is one of the most 
cost-effective and fast-acting ways to stimulate the economy. Moreover, 
economists agree that extending these benefits will create jobs and 
decrease the chances of slipping into a double-dip recession. So not 
only is it the right thing to do to help people who are temporarily out 
of work, it is also one of the best ways to stimulate local economies, 
from the very smallest towns to the very biggest cities.

Let's do the right thing. Let's pass extended unemployment benefits.