---
---

# ENERGY PRICES
## `1153eea5fb27b7eaccba184c6863efde`
`Ms. MURKOWSKI â€” 12 May 2008`

---


Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, it is so important that we as Members 
of the Senate, Members of the Congress, are on the floor discussing the 
No. 1 issue--the No. 1 domestic issue certainly in the minds of 
Americans--and that is the price of energy. The folks back home want to 
know: What are you going to do to fix it? What is the Congress going to 
do?

Tomorrow we are going to have an opportunity to vote on a couple of 
different proposals. I rise this afternoon in support of the passage of 
the American Energy Production Act. This is a comprehensive energy bill 
that was introduced last week by the ranking member of the Energy 
Committee, Senator Domenici.

Americans are at a point where I think their patience is wearing 
thin, their frustration is showing, but it goes beyond just 
frustration. I think it is fair to say that many across the country are 
in true economic distress over the prices they are paying now for 
gasoline, for their home heating oil, many for their natural gas that 
they are seeing coming into their home and, unfortunately, the 
prognosis for the future doesn't look much more consoling to the 
consumer. All estimates indicate these prices will continue to rise in 
the future.

Look at some of the events of last week in terms of what was 
happening around the world. The rebel disturbances in Nigeria, concerns 
about the relations with Iran and production disruptions over there, 
production disruptions in Iraq--all of this plus many other factors, 
including the price of the dollar, and what is happening with the 
Chinese and Indian economies in terms of additional consumers coming 
on. So many of these factors keep driving the price of oil to the point 
where last week's closing crude oil price topped out at $126, down to 
$125 per barrel over the weekend. That hike in price is going to 
continue to drive the retail prices for refined product even higher, 
above the $3.62 national average for unleaded regular we reached last 
week; 52 cents higher than last year.

Talking to the folks back home, it is literally one horror story 
after another in terms of what people are paying. I know there are many 
places in the country today where fuel is hovering right at $4 a 
gallon, but in Alaska we are looking at prices that are much higher 
than that. In Athaca, fuel was costing $8.65 a gallon last week. This 
is about a dollar higher than the folks there were paying last year. 
They are used to paying high prices, but I am here to tell you 8 bucks 
and 65 cents a gallon is really high. In the community of Kiana, it is 
$6.25 a gallon. It is exactly $1 higher than they paid last year. At 
these prices, Alaskans and all Americans are having great difficulty 
making ends meet. Americans need relief from high fuel prices and they 
are asking for it now.

I have so many opportunities, coming from a State such as Alaska that 
is a producing State, a lot of opportunities to talk about how we can 
produce more as a nation. But I also am very insistent when we talk 
about an energy policy for this country that we also focus on promoting 
energy conservation, we also focus on greater energy efficiency and 
developing the alternative energy so critical for this Nation.

But we also have to make sure when we talk about an energy policy, we 
recognize there are different components. I liken it to a three-legged 
stool. You have the conservation and efficiency, you have the 
renewables and alternatives, but you also have increased production and 
increased production in traditional energy sources that are done in an 
environmentally sensitive manner.

The amendment Senator Domenici has introduced, the American Energy 
Production Act, does that in many ways. It proposes to open a couple 
thousand acres, 2,000 acres--I don't come from a farming State 
necessarily, but my colleagues from South Dakota and some of the big 
farm States tell me that 2,000 acres is pretty much the size of a small 
farm there--of the Arctic Coastal Plain to oil and gas development. We 
believe this area, the 1002 area of ANWR, is the site with likely the 
largest onshore oil and gas deposits left in North America. We know if 
we were to act today to open ANWR tomorrow, it is not going to bring 
new North Slope oil to the markets tomorrow, but it will affect the 
psychology of the oil markets. It will show that America is getting 
serious--finally getting serious--about producing the 40 billion 
barrels of oil and the hundreds of trillions of cubic feet of natural 
gas we believe exist in the current moratoria areas.

I think we need to recognize--and so many of my colleagues have 
stated this already on the floor--ANWR is about the long term. I can't 
tell my colleagues how many times I have heard on this floor: If we had 
only opened ANWR 10 years ago when President Clinton vetoed it, we 
would have that pipeline today. That pipeline would now be full instead 
of half full as we currently see it. But ANWR is about the bridge, if 
you will. It is a bridge to an energy future that can get us to the 
alternatives and to the renewables we keep talking about, and those who 
are so focused on making sure we have a solid environment and a solid 
environmental base. This is what so many of my Democratic colleagues 
are talking about. We need to get to the future of energy, which I 
agree is absolutely the alternatives and the renewables. But you can't 
flip a switch and have this Nation powered 100 percent by wind or solar 
or geothermal or ocean energy. We have to allow for that transition, 
and ANWR, the oil from ANWR, can help us to do that.

We have had many hearings in the Energy Committee on the issue of 
production. But earlier this year we heard from witnesses who said the 
current runup in world oil prices is due to so many of the factors I 
mentioned a few minutes ago; clearly, the hike in world demand for oil 
is led by China and by India; what is happening with the weakening of 
the U.S. dollar, which is used to pay for all of the oil sales; and oil 
becoming the new gold--a commodity of interest to investors because of 
the tightness of the world supplies.



Essentially, what it comes down to--so much of the discussion we are 
talking about--is supply and demand. I suggest that as we look to all 
these factors that are influencing price right now, one of the ways we 
can deal with that, one of the ways we can tell the American consumer 
we are working on this is to produce more energy from non-OPEC nations, 
to help increase our global supplies, and to help drive down world 
prices.

Robert Samuelson, a columnist, said in a column, which I will submit 
for the Record, that we need to exert long-term influence on the global 
balance of supply and demand for energy.

I ask unanimous consent that the column be printed in the Record.