---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF NATIVE AMERICAN VETERANS
## `1154e824259f1f0509807157e20132b2`
`Mr. FILNER — 5 November 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution 
to recognize our Native American veterans who have served and continue 
to serve this Nation with honor and with pride. I represent a county in 
California, San Diego, that has one of the largest numbers of Native 
American tribes in our Nation, and I have heard many of their stories. 
We know that Native Americans have participated with distinction in 
U.S. military actions for more than 200 years. Their courage, 
determination, and fighting spirit are well documented throughout our 
history.

It is well recognized, also, that Native Americans have the highest 
record of service per capita when compared to other ethnic groups. 
Presently, there are almost 200,000 Native American military veterans 
alive today. At least 18,000 of the 22,000 Native Americans currently 
in uniform have been deployed at least once to Iraq or Afghanistan as 
of July of this year.

Native Americans who volunteer for military service aspire to uphold 
their proud cultural tradition. This warrior tradition is a willingness 
to engage the enemy in battle. This characteristic has been clearly 
demonstrated by the courageous deeds of our Native Americans in combat. 
Five Native Americans have been among those soldiers who distinguished 
themselves by receiving the military's highest award, the Medal of 
Honor. This medal is given for military heroism ''above and beyond the 
call of duty.'' These warriors exhibited extraordinary bravery in the 
face of the enemy and, in two cases, made the ultimate sacrifice for 
their country.

This House, led by the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, had the 
enormous privilege of naming two Veterans Affairs Medical Centers in 
honor of these heroes just last June. Charles George was a member of 
the Cherokee tribe from North Carolina and private first class in Korea 
when he was killed on November 30 of 1952. During battle, George threw 
himself upon a grenade and smothered it with his body. In doing so, he 
sacrificed his own life, but saved the lives of his comrades.



Ernest Childers was a member of the Creek Tribe from Oklahoma and a 
First Lieutenant with the 45th Infantry Division. He received a Medal 
of Honor for heroic action in 1943 when, up against machine gun fire, 
he and eight men charged the enemy. Although suffering a broken foot in 
this assault, Childers ordered covering fire and advanced up the hill, 
single-handedly killing the snipers, silencing two machine gun nests, 
and capturing an enemy mortar observer.

The warrior tradition is exemplified by strength, honor, pride, 
devotion and wisdom. These qualities are a perfect fit with our 
Nation's proud military traditions.

I urge the people of our Nation, I urge the Members of this Congress, 
to make sure we have a day honoring our proud and brave Native American 
veterans.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.