---
---

# EQUAL CARE FOR ARMED FORCES
## `115e682ac7f13d4b1a775bbff039c609`
`Mr. SMITH — 5 March 2008`

---


Mr. SMITH. Mr. President, I rise today to speak to an important piece 
of legislation to secure equal care for members of the armed services 
who suffer from a mental illness. I am pleased to have my colleagues 
Senators Evan Bayh and Bill Nelson joining me in this cause by serving 
as original cosponsors of this bill, the Travel Assistance for Family 
Members of our Troops Act of 2008.

There is no greater obligation than caring for those who have served 
this country through their military service. We would be remiss if we 
did not ensure that the health care of our heroes in arms is the finest 
medicine has to offer.

What we now refer to as post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, was 
once described as ''soldier's heart'' in the Civil War, ''shell shock'' 
in World War I, and ''combat fatigue'' in World War II. Whatever the 
name, they are serious mental illnesses and deserve equal attention and 
care as a physical wound.

In recent reports, we have heard that 20 to 40 service men and women 
are evacuated each month from Iraq due to mental health problems. In 
addition to those who are identified, there are many more who will 
return home after their service to face readjustment challenges. Some 
will need appropriate mental heath care to help them adjust back to 
''normal'' life, while others will need medical assistance to heal more 
serious PTSD issues. Yet others will need help to mentally cope with 
their physical wounds.

So many of our veterans from previous conflicts, such as World War II 
and the Korean and Vietnam wars, needed similar programs once they 
returned home. Yet I fear that we didn't do enough to help them. With 
proper and early support systems in place, including support of their 
families, we can work to prevent the more serious and chronic mental 
health issues that come from a lack of intervention.

The legislation I am introducing today will provide support for 
family members of our uniformed service men and women receiving 
inpatient treatment for serious psychiatric conditions. Right now, the 
Department of Defense does not classify Active-Duty servicemembers 
receiving treatment for mental illnesses as ''Very Seriously Ill'' or 
''Seriously Ill.''

Therefore, under current policy, family members are not eligible to 
receive the same travel allowances as patients being treated for 
physical injuries.

This bill will eliminate the current disparity in treatment against 
our country's men and woman who are bravely serving in the armed 
services. We have already taken legislative steps through the Defense 
reauthorization bill to begin to address needed improvements in the 
quality of health care, both from mental and physical injuries. This 
bill is another important piece in that process.

Travel Assistance for Family Members of our Troops Act of 2008 
ensures that patients with serious mental impairments can spend time 
with their family--the same treatment we currently are providing to 
patients with physical injuries requiring inpatient care.

We urge our colleagues to support this important piece of 
legislation.
