# THE U.S.-MEXICAN BORDER
## `11618942ad052820f159178ef6f01c6b`
`Mr. CARTER — 18 May 2010`

---


Mr. CARTER. Madam Speaker, I've been coming up here on the first day 
of each week that we're back in session to talk about the rule of law 
and how the rule of law needs to apply to those of us who serve here in 
Congress, those who serve in the administration, and that it is the 
glue that holds our society together. And if we, in turn, are going to 
circumvent the rules of law, then we, in fact, are chipping away at the 
very foundation of the American culture.

Today we're going to shift gears a little bit because we've talked a 
lot about what's going on up here and some folks that have had some 
problems following the rules, but I don't think we've ever seen a more 
glaring example of a violation of the rule of law and the failure to 
enforce the law than what is happening on the southern borders of the 
United States.

You see right here on May 17, 2010, Real Clear Politics, Threat on 
the Border with Mexico: Possible Terrorists Entering the U.S., and it's 
a picture of people climbing over a barrier, a very strange-looking 
barrier, to be honest with you. It's got a big hole in the middle of 
it. I don't understand exactly what it is. But we've had an issue, and 
those of us who have been in this Congress for a while have been very 
concerned, and I, in particular, have been very concerned about this 
situation down on the Texas-Mexico border, the New Mexico-, Arizona-, 
and California-Mexico border.

So I want to go back with you for a while to when I first went with 
parts of the Homeland Security Subcommittee of the Appropriations 
Committee to look at the border between Texas and Mexico. We've made 
trips. We've gone all up and down that border. I happen to have been on 
the one that was in my home State down on the border. I went with my 
colleague on the other side of the aisle, Henry Cuellar, down to Nuevo 
Laredo, Mexico, and Laredo, Texas, across the border. And we talked 
with the Border Patrol about their issues, and that was way back in, I 
believe, 2004, maybe 2005.

I sat out in the dark with a Border Patrolman along the banks of the 
Rio Grande with his surveillance equipment, and it was in the 
wintertime, but it wasn't cold. It doesn't get real cold down in that 
part of Texas. ''Cool'' would be the word. It was not a whole 
lot colder than it is right now outside in Washington, D.C. And he and 
I watched, I think it was, 2 miles in either direction of the border. 
Right there, right next to what I would call the city, because right 
across the road was a housing project, were apartments, were hundreds 
of people walking in the streets. It was 10 o'clock at night, and there 
were people everywhere.


I talked to him about the illegal crossings coming into this country, 
the danger. And it was a dangerous place. In fact, while we were on the 
bridge between Nuevo Laredo and Laredo, John Culberson picked up a 
flattened bullet head slug, if you will, from probably a 9-millimeter 
or something like that, that had flattened out when it hit the bridge, 
the international bridge between Mexico and the United States. He 
carries it around in his pocket with him now to remind people that this 
is dangerous business that our Border Patrol is dealing with down 
there.

Well, since that time, international drug cartels have moved to the 
border of the United States, and they are fighting a border war just a 
stone's throw from the places where American citizens live up and down 
the border from Brownsville all the way across to San Diego, to 
Tijuana. The crime will take your breath away.

I spent 20 years in the judiciary. Many of my colleagues did the 
same. I have seen lots of crime. I have tried lots of cases involving 
horrible situations. But while we were down there on that trip with my 
friend Henry Cuellar, we saw pictures in the Nuevo Laredo newspaper of 
a woman who was the wife of a police official in Laredo who had been 
kidnapped and burned alive, and she had been set down in a business 
chair very much like these ladies sitting over here that are taking 
down the minutes or are recording the proceedings, sat in that chair, 
had three tires full of gasoline shoved down around her body, and she 
had been set on fire and burned up alive.



That was done as a threat to the police department in Laredo to 
either get in line with what the criminal element in Nuevo Laredo 
wanted to do or suffer the consequences. That was a shocking thing. I 
carried that back up here and showed it to our committee members. Some 
of them were ill from looking at it. And I pointed out that this is a 
lawless society we have created on this border.

Now I have a theory, and I think my theory is based on some pretty 
good police discoveries we have made over the last 25 years in police 
work. During the time when they cleaned up New York City and made it a 
safer place to be, they discovered, and this was the chief of police 
and the mayor, at that time it was Rudy Giuliani, that a bad criminal 
environment breeds crime. So if you have a neighborhood where there are 
old junk cars in the front yard, there is trash in the front yard, they 
haven't taken things off the stoop, broken windows, that is a 
neighborhood without pride, and the criminal element breeds in that 
neighborhood. But if you get the criminal element out of there, you get 
the criminality of that environment out of there, the neighborhood 
improves. And you put a beat cop there that allows them to know that 
law enforcement is there, law enforcement is involved, then the public 
can feel confident, and they start to take care of their neighborhood 
and in turn make the crime move elsewhere. And they cleaned up New York 
City with that basic theory. They went back to the old, walk-the-beat 
cop theory that came out of the 19th century.

Now, why do I mention that? Well, people say to me why do you think 
the cartels who were in Colombia and other parts of the country, why 
did they come and settle along the southern border of this country? I 
thought about it a lot. And it came to me that, you know what, 
lawlessness breeds lawlessness. So what were we creating on the border 
when we weren't enforcing some basic tenets of the law? We have laws 
that say you can't come into this country except legally. And millions 
of people, whether for good purpose or bad, and many, many for good 
purpose, I am not saying it is not, just for a job, but they were 
breaking our laws. And they were coming into this country. And where 
was this community of lawlessness? Along the Mexican border.

That community of lawlessness, which was just sneaking people into 
the country and people sneaking into the country so, as many will tell 
you, just so they can get a job to feed their families. Of course there 
was a little criminal element, and a little more criminal element, and 
all of a sudden we have estimates of four or five drug cartels from 
Central and South America fighting a drug war from Brownsville to 
Tijuana, from Matamoros to Tijuana on the other side of the border. 
Twenty-three thousand people have been killed in the last 18 months in 
that war across the border. Mexico has brought in every kind of 
resource that they can afford to bring in to try to stop this, but it 
is out of control and it is bleeding across the border into my State 
and the other States that border Mexico.

We are having a great conversation today in our country about a law 
that was passed by the State of Arizona. And I would argue that the 
State of Arizona, that law has a real clear message to the Federal 
Government: You know what, we have been waiting 10 to 15 years for 
anybody to realize how bad this is.

Now back in 2004 and 2005, we were beefing up the Border Patrol and 
pouring homeland security money into building fence. We had resources 
that were dedicated to trying to stop this flood, but the flood was 
still coming. But they were doing the best they could, and they were 
catching a million, million and a half a day, but the estimate was for 
every one that got caught, 10 got across. The flood was ongoing.

There are many reasons and faults you can lay upon that: employers 
were hiring these people and maybe they shouldn't; we didn't have a 
good identification system for people to know whether or not someone 
was an illegal alien in this country; and the argument goes on and on. 
But the reality was we were creating a lawless border


from Matamoros to Tijuana. And that lawlessness drew in organized crime 
in the form of these cartels, and those cartels are slaughtering 
people, fighting it out on the streets. Sometimes gunfire is as 
prevalent on the border towns across the river from Texas as it is in 
Iraq or Afghanistan. Just recently, 35 people were killed in a shootout 
in Juarez, across the border from El Paso, in one day. Many of those 
were Federal officers of the Mexican federal police force and the army.

You say well, what does that have to do with us? Phoenix, Arizona, 
one of the places where a lot of folks up north go to get some warm 
weather in the wintertime, a really wonderful town. I have been there, 
it is a great town. It reminds you of a cross between the west of New 
Mexico and the west of California blending together there. It was a 
laid-back group of people. They enjoyed life. But now they are the 
kidnap capital of the United States. And it is not Americans kidnapping 
Americans, it is illegal people coming across our border and starting a 
big business of kidnapping people. They kidnap them and hold them for 
ransom, and if they don't get the ransom on time, they send them a hand 
or an arm, and ultimately maybe a head of their loved one to let them 
know that they didn't pay the money, and that is what happened to their 
loved one. We don't live with that kind of horror in this country, but 
there it is right there in Phoenix, Arizona. And that means that this 
lawlessness that exists on the border of this country, the southern 
border of this country, is bleeding over into the United States. We 
have got to do something about it.

So the Arizona folks, they wrote themselves a law. And they basically 
said, they basically defined some stuff that Federal officers have had 
the ability to do for a long time. And they talked about the fact that 
if Washington is not going to do something, we are going to do 
something to try to find out who these people are who are coming across 
our border illegally. We have international people talking about us. We 
have the United Nations talking about a law in Arizona.

Well, I want to throw something out, and I see the gentleman from 
Utah (Mr. Bishop) is here. And I am happy to have my colleague and 
classmate to join me tonight. It pleases me to no end, but I want to 
start off this conversation by pointing out something. Mr. Lamar Smith, 
who serves on the Judiciary Committee, told to a group of us last week, 
a statistic that he produced, which is very eye opening. We are 
criticized by the United Nations. We are criticized by China. We are 
being criticized by Russia. We are being criticized by EU countries 
over there about our horrible immigration policy.


Over the past year, we have brought in legally through the legal 
process in this country over 1 million immigrants. By the way, that 
number and more has been going on for just about as far as you can look 
back in time and see in this country. More than 1 million came into 
this country last year. You say, why do I mention that? What is the big 
deal about that number? I have news for you, my colleagues, here it is: 
That number equals more immigration than all the rest of the world 
combined. So these people that are criticizing the United States and 
our citizens, who are acting like we should look to some others as 
example, there are no other great examples of people who welcome 
immigrants but the United States because the United States by itself 
welcomes more than all the rest of the world put together.



Now, that ought to make us stop looking at ourselves as evil people. 
We, through a legal process, bring in more immigrants to our country 
and welcome them to be law-abiding citizens and come here and help make 
our country what it's always been, the great melting pot of America; 
and we do it legally. And they wait their turn. They get in line. They 
fill out the paperwork. They pay the fees. They do all that it takes to 
get here legally, and they are legal immigrants, and there are more of 
them than all the rest of the world combined has in their countries, 
added together.

With that as our premise, that we are not evil people, we are people 
who care about immigrants, I'd like to yield such time as my friend, 
Rob Bishop from Utah, would like to spend in discussing this matter.