---
---

# THE GREAT AMERICAN OUTDOORS
## `11665a9da41e17a1c5940fc2307ed657`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I wish to make remarks about three 
matters of importance to the great American outdoors, all of which have 
been happening this week and which are important for our country.

First, I wish to comment on a provision the Senate struck from the 
Iraq supplemental appropriations bill this morning when we were 
considering it. We struck it in a procedural move based upon a point of 
order I raised. The provision was a billboard amnesty proposal that was 
inserted into the middle of legislation that was supposed to be in 
support of our troops.

I called it a billboard amnesty proposal because it suddenly would 
have treated as legal billboard sites that have been illegal for 40 
years and effectively would have gutted the Highway Beautification Act 
of 1965, which is one of the legacies of a former First Lady, Lady Bird 
Johnson.

I think this deserves a little attention and a little explanation 
before we leave it because it was a full-scale assault on one of the 
most important pieces of legislation that helps keep our country 
beautiful at a time when we are growing and struggling to preserve open 
spaces.

There are three problems with this billboard amnesty proposal, as I 
saw it. First, the proposal would have done for the billboard industry 
something the law doesn't allow for churches, doesn't allow for 
schools, doesn't allow for businesses, doesn't allow for any other 
structures that since 1965 have been on illegal or nonconforming sites.

This is what was happening. In 1965, at the urging of President 
Johnson and Mrs. Johnson, the Nation decided it would restrict 
billboards, both in terms of their location and their size. As we often 
do with legislation, we looked ahead and said the billboards could not 
be located in some places and had to be within a certain size. As the 
interstate system grew across the country, much of it is relatively 
free of large billboards or has a limited number of billboards.

The question then arose about what do we do about the billboards and 
signs that were already up prior to 1965. The decision was made by the 
Congress at that time to say we will leave those signs up, we will 
grandfather them in. As long as they stay up, they are fine, but when 
they fall down, they will be gone. In other words, we have been waiting 
for 40 years for those sites to die a natural death. That was the 
compromise in 1965. Many of these billboards are large billboards and 
are in places we don't want--rural areas, scenic areas across the 
country--but that was the decision we made.

The problem with this legislation, as it came into the supplemental 
appropriations bill for troops, is it said suddenly all the billboards 
in 13 States that are on sites where it would be illegal to put a new 
billboard were suddenly legal. In other words, it was instant amnesty, 
overnight amnesty for illegal billboards.

There are a lot of billboards like this. For example, in the State of 
Tennessee, there are nearly 3,000 billboards on sites where they would 
not be permitted under current law, but when those billboards fall 
down, they can't ever put them back up. We have known that for 40 
years. In North Carolina, there are probably 2,600 illegal sites, in 
the sense that when the billboards wear out, fall down, act of God 
knocks them out, they can't be put back up. In South Carolina, there 
are 2,200; in Florida, 6,000; in Oklahoma, 1,400; and in Alabama, 912. 
In a moment, I will put in the list of those in each State.

What the provision that we struck from the bill said was, because 
there were some hurricanes down South, in all these places where 
billboards on illegal sites were knocked down by a hurricane, they 
could be put back up. That raises a lot of questions. What is the 
difference between a billboard being destroyed by a hurricane and being 
destroyed by lightning, or it becoming water damaged, or it falling 
down because it is rotting, or some other act of God?

The whole idea in 1965 was when the billboards wore out, or an act of 
God destroyed them, they were gone. They were gone. We have been 
waiting for 40 years for that to happen. So in comes the billboard 
lobby and, suddenly, we have first a proposal to exempt all these 
billboards across the country--instant billboard amnesty for all the 
billboards in every State--even though the hurricanes were in the 
South.

Finally, that original proposal from the billboard industry got 
narrowed down to 13 States, which included Tennessee--we don't have a 
lot of hurricanes in Tennessee--and Kentucky. Hurricanes in Kentucky?

I think what is happening here is the billboard lobby is doing its 
best to reclaim all those billboards that have been illegal for 40 
years by saying because of this hurricane or that drought or that 
lightning strike, suddenly we want them rebuilt in every State. That is 
a pretty good thing for all the billboard companies, because by and 
large they have bought them up from all the small farmers. They weren't 
worth very much because the owners knew when they fell down, the 
billboards could never be replaced. So what could be better for the big 
billboard lobby than to suddenly get instant amnesty for all these 
sites and instant riches overnight for those companies?

I don't blame them for trying, but I think the Senate was exactly 
right to say, wait a minute, we can't do this. Not only is it an 
affront to the troops to be cavalierly talking about a wet kiss to the 
billboard lobby in the middle a debate when we are supposed to be 
helping the troops in Iraq, I think it is an affront to Lady Bird 
Johnson and all those across America who, for 40 years, have tried to 
keep our country, about which we sing, beautiful. One of our greatest 
values is we sing and believe in America the beautiful.

This motion was put into the legislation by the Democratic leader. I 
want to make very clear I don't question his motives, and I respect 
what he does. I appreciate the courteous way in which he treated the 
discussion he and I had on this. I told him if there were some 
injustices that have to do with States in the South that have been 
somehow unevenly treated by the law or impacted by the hurricanes in a 
way nobody anticipated, I would be glad to work with him and other 
members of the Environment and Public Works Committee, on which I 
serve, to correct those injustices. But the Senator from Florida, Mr. 
Martinez, was a cosponsor of my amendment to get rid of this provision. 
The Senator from Alabama, Mr. Shelby, was a cosponsor of my amendment 
to stop this billboard amnesty. So who is the billboard lobby trying to 
protect here, when the Senators from those States--Tennessee,


Alabama, and Florida--say we don't need that sort of protection? But I 
am happy and willing to work on that legislation.

I also wish to make it clear to my colleagues this is not a new 
subject for me. In the 1980s, when I was Governor of Tennessee, the 
legislature and I--and the legislature was Democratic at the time--made 
10,000 of our State roads scenic highways. We put little mockingbirds 
up, and we said no new billboards and no new junkyards. Tennessee is a 
beautiful State, and we wanted people to enjoy it as they drove across 
the country. The only regret I have is we didn't think of cell towers 
being invented. We all use them, for our cell phones and our 
BlackBerries. In Tennessee, they seem to be having a contest to see who 
can invent the biggest and the ugliest cell tower and stick it in the 
most scenic place. But we created those scenic highways in a bipartisan 
way.

In the mid-1980s, I was chairman of the President's Commission on 
Americans Outdoors, with Gilbert Grosvenor, the head of National 
Geographic, and Pat Noonan, president of The Conservation Fund, and one 
of our major recommendations was a system of scenic byways, which the 
Congress has now created across our country.

Our people want to see our beautiful country and they want reasonable 
limits on what we are doing. They certainly don't want to see us, in 
the middle of legislation to support our troops, to have suddenly 
attached to the appropriations bill an instant billboard amnesty 
proposal. I am glad that is out of the bill, and I congratulate the 
Senate for doing what we did this morning. It will come up through the 
regular committee, if we ever need to do that. The proposal was a big 
wet kiss to the billboard lobby, and a kissing line in which I don't 
care to stand, and I appreciate the Senate action.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
a letter from several organizations--Scenic America, the U.S. 
Conference of Mayors, the National League of Cities, the American 
Planning Association, and other groups--expressing their deep concern 
about the provision we knocked out of the supplemental appropriations 
bill that would have gutted the Highway Beautification Act.

Following that, I wish to include a chart from Scenic America that 
has a list of the number of nonconforming billboards in every State. 
There are 63,000 of those sites where it would be illegal to put up new 
billboards. The whole thrust of this billboard amnesty proposal would 
have been to turn those illegal sites into legal sites overnight, 
beginning with these 13 States and perhaps expanding to other States in 
the future.

Also, I wish to include two newspaper articles, one from the 
Washington Post and one from USA Today, which alerted the Senate this 
week to this provision in the appropriations bill, which slipped in 
very quietly under the heading of ''highway signs.''