---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `1183a83250853b735e3e5a2c241d5fe2`
`Mr. MAHONEY of Florida — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. MAHONEY of Florida. I thank my friend, the distinguished 
gentleman, for yielding time to me this afternoon.

Madam Speaker, I rise today on behalf of Florida's 16th Congressional 
District in support of House Resolution 97, providing cost 
accountability for the Iraq war.

If we take a look at what has happened over these past 5 years, 
America has rid Iraq of a brutal dictator. America has given the Iraqi 
people a chance to create their own democracy, and we have invested 
over $400 billion and more than 3,000 American lives in securing their 
country.

Madam Speaker, it is time for the Iraqis to step up and to take 
control of their destiny and their own security. And it is imperative 
that any future American financial expenditures in the Iraq war be 
subject to accountability and transparency.

An estimated $9 billion of Iraqi reconstruction funds are missing. 
According to a January 2005 report by the Office of the Special 
Inspector General of Iraq Reconstruction, these $9 billion have gone 
missing because of inefficiencies and bad management.



For the past 4 years, Congress has not exercised the oversight and 
accountability necessary to ensure that our money is being used 
effectively to support our troops to achieve our objectives in Iraq. We 
have paid billions of dollars to private contractors for work in Iraq; 
at the same time, the reports have uncovered waste, fraud, abuse, and 
even possible war profiteering by some of these contractors.

In a war already lacking manpower, resources, and international 
support needed to maximize our chance of success, it is criminal that 
billions of dollars are unaccounted for. Congressional oversight is 
needed to make sure that our money is used to support our troops, not 
lost to profiteering and fraud.

House Resolution 97 would require that future Iraq spending is marked 
by transparency and accountability, instead of systemic waste, fraud, 
and abuse. The resolution calls for the creation of a Truman Commission 
to investigate how contracts are awarded, increases transparency so we 
know how Iraq war funds are spent, demands that fiscal requests for 
fiscal year 2008 and later go through the normal appropriations process 
instead of emergency supplementals, and calls for resources to be used 
to improve Iraqi assumption of policing operations.

Madam Speaker, these criteria are long overdue. I encourage my 
colleagues to support House Resolution 97 to ensure that transparency 
and accountability are the hallmarks of any future funding of the Iraq 
war.