---
---

# HONORING INTELLIGENCE SPECIALIST FIRST CLASS PETTY OFFICER JAMES K.  BROWN
## `118ab60d6647f358fd7775015211d14d`
`Mr. LUETKEMEYER — 2 February 2010`

---


Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
Intelligence Specialist First Class Petty Officer James K. Brown, who 
is retiring following twenty years of service in the United States 
Navy.

IS1 James K. Brown's storied military career began in August 1989 
when he enlisted in the


United States Navy. Soon after, Brown participated in Operation Desert 
Storm and Desert Shield, for which he earned the Combat Action Ribbon. 
In 1994, he reported to the USS George Washington, taking part in her 
maiden voyage to the Mediterranean. During this deployment and 
subsequent deployments, the command was engaged in Operation Southern 
Watch and operations in Kosovo.

In December 1999, he reported to the USS Carl Vinson as the Leading 
Petty Officer of Multi-Sensor Interpretation Branch. In October 2001, 
the USS Carl Vinson launched the first attack of the Global War on 
Terrorism into Afghanistan in response to the September 11 2001 
attacks. During the second deployment, on station off the Korean 
peninsula, he participated in exercises FOAL EAGLE and TANDUM THRUST.

In December 2008, IS1 Brown reported to U.S. Naval Station Guantanamo 
as his last duty station in the United States Navy and is currently 
serving as the Leading Petty Officer and the Special Security Officer 
for the Naval Station and Tenant Commands.

Over the course of his twenty years of service, IS1 Brown has earned 
a Bachelor of Science degree in Intelligence Studies from the Joint 
Military Intelligence College in 2004 and earned Post Graduate 
Certificate in Intelligence in 2007 from the National Defense 
Intelligence College. Brown has also received the following awards and 
decorations: the Joint Service Achievement Medal, Navy and Marine Corps 
Achievement Medal, Combat Action ribbon, Good Conduct Medal, NATO Medal 
for Yugoslavia, and Joint Staff Identification Badge, along with 
several unit and campaign awards.

IS1 James K. Brown's military efforts were supported by his wife, 
Nichole, and their four children, Ashley, Alesha, Amber, and Zechariah.

In closing, Madam Speaker, I ask all my colleagues to join me in 
congratulating Intelligence Specialist First Class Petty Officer James 
K. Brown on reaching this important milestone.
