---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `118bd8aa4649bcdd94892f85dfaebdf2`
`Mr. ROSS — 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. 
Wilson), an important member of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog 
Coalition, for sharing your thoughts with us this evening as we try to, 
Mr. Speaker, talk about the need to restore fiscal discipline and 
accountability to our government. You gave a good example of putting an 
end to the debt and the deficit spending, and we have had examples this 
evening about restoring accountability to government, and the 
accountability and lack of it within FEMA.

We are going to hear about other areas where we need to restore 
accountability within our Federal Government this evening, and we will 
talk some about the Blue Dog Coalition's Iraq War Accountability Act.

We support our troops. In fact, we support them so much we want to 
make sure this $12 million an hour that is being sent to Iraq of your 
hardearned tax money, Mr. Speaker, is going to support our men and 
women in uniform. Unfortunately, as we have learned, much of it is not, 
and that is why we have this legislation, H.R. 97, the Iraq War 
Accountability Act.

Mr. Speaker, if you have got any comments, questions or concerns for 
us, you can e-mail us at bluedog@mail.house.gov. That is 
bluedog@mail.house.gov.

At this time, Mr. Speaker, I yield to another member of the fiscally 
conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Costa).