# MAKING FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `1199e6fc753f58b0df490733416325ea`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Madam President, I thank my friends from 
Virginia and Arizona for the courtesy being extended to me and I 
appreciate their forbearance.

Madam President, the Senate is about to embark on a weeklong recess 
in the next couple days, and I would be remiss to allow this week to 
end without at least trying with my colleague from Virginia one more 
time to get the Senate to consider our resolution on the Iraq troop 
surge.

For days we have seen Senators deliver speeches on this floor, some 
for a vote, others against allowing a vote. We have heard great calls 
to action, and we have heard that doing nothing would be better than 
doing something. We even had Senators participate in an exercise to 
block an up-or-down vote on a resolution, some for reasons they think 
were certainly important.

But I am not a believer in doing nothing, and I believe the Senate 
has an obligation to lead. I have said that before, and I will say it 
again. The Senate is not only a deliberative body, but it is a 
governing body and has oversight interests. Each Senator, as a Member 
of the body, has an obligation to lead.

I would like to commend my colleagues, the Senator from Virginia and 
the Senator from Maine, for exhibiting great leadership and courage in 
forging this resolution that includes many important issues that need 
to be covered in a vote of this magnitude. Both of my colleagues and 
others have overcome fierce political pressures, including the 
Presiding Officer. But we have come together to do the right thing.

I would like to thank my colleagues, the chairman of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee, from Michigan, my colleague from Nebraska, and the 
other Senators who have signed on in support of our resolution. 
Together, we are able to begin the process of oversight, the process of 
leadership, the process of living up to our obligations.

And we are here today to try to continue to do the right thing. The 
House of Representatives is engaged in a historic debate today over a 
resolution that does, in part, what our resolution does. It expresses 
opposition to the President's planned surge of troops in Iraq.

Although their resolution and our resolution come at it from 
different directions and points of view, in essence, they have some 
similarity. But I would prefer the Senate to take up the Warner-Nelson-
Collins resolution because we have spent considerable time and energy 
drafting a complete and comprehensive resolution that includes many of 
the priorities Senators have expressed over the duration of that war.

Our resolution includes the need to establish benchmarks for the 
Iraqi Government to meet in order to continue involvement of the United 
States in Iraq. It includes the desire to continue fighting the 
terrorists in Anbar Province. It expresses clear opposition to the 
President's proposal to deposit 21,000 troops at the crossroads of 
civil war in Baghdad.

The House resolution does express opposition to the President's plan, 
but it does not include these other important measures which we think 
are very important.

So I hope we can resolve our differences and vote on this resolution 
in a timely fashion. The American public deserves an up-or-down down 
vote on this most important issue of today. The time is now to express 
our opposition to the troop surge and the use of American soldiers to 
stop civil war in Iraq.

Thank you, Madam President. And I thank my colleague and friend from 
Arizona and my colleague and friend from Virginia.