# VETERANS' COMPENSATION COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 2008
## `119dec79ba54d353cb13f5d6f42c58ca`
`Mr. AKAKA — 30 July 2008`

---


Mr. AKAKA. As chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, 
I note my strong support for Senate passage of S. 2617, the proposed 
Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2008. This 
measure, which I introduced earlier this year and which the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs reported on July 24, would direct the Secretary of 
Veterans' Affairs to increase, effective December 1, 2008, the rates of 
veterans' disability compensation to keep pace with the rising cost of 
living. The rate adjustment would be equal to that provided to Social 
Security recipients, based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Consumer 
Price Index.

Congress regularly enacts an annual cost-of-living adjustment, COLA, 
for veterans' compensation in order to ensure that inflation does not 
erode the purchasing power of the veterans and their families who 
depend upon this income to meet their needs. This past year Congress 
passed, and the President signed into law, Public Law 110-111, which 
resulted in a COLA increase of 2.3 percent for 2008. At this time, the 
Congressional Budget Office estimates that the cost-of-living 
adjustment for 2009 will be 2.8 percent.

The COLA affects, among other benefits, veterans' disability 
compensation and dependency and indemnity compensation for surviving 
spouses and children. According to the latest figures from VA, there 
are 2.8 million veterans currently receiving compensation for 
disabilities incurred in the line of duty, as well as over 316,000 
surviving spouses of veterans receiving dependency and indemnity 
compensation. Current U.S. military deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan 
will ensure that there will be new recipients of these benefits in the 
coming years. The brave men and women who voluntarily put themselves in 
harm's way to keep our country safe need to be certain that we will 
fulfill our responsibility to ensure that those who are injured during 
service are provided with the help they need to provide for their 
families' economic security.

Many of the more than 3 million recipients of these VA benefits 
depend upon these tax-free payments not only to provide for their own 
basic needs but those of their spouses, children and parents as well. 
Without an annual COLA increase, these veterans and their families 
would see the value of


their hard-earned benefits slowly dwindle, and we, as a Congress, would 
have neglected our duty to ensure that those who sacrificed so much for 
this country receive the benefits and services to which they are 
entitled.

I urge all of our colleagues to support passage of this COLA increase 
and for their continued support for our Nation's veterans.