# BROWARD COUNTY VETERANS COUNCIL RESOLUTION ON IRAQ
## `11a7c09eb431f4c46e6df281b23e5651`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. Madam Speaker, I submit the following 
resolution on Iraq by the Broward County Veterans Council passed on 
January 16, 2007.




 Whereas: The President of the United States has put forth a 


 plan to the American people and to Congress which calls for 


 an escalation of 20,000 or more of our troops going to Iraq 


 to combat the insurrection in the Bagdad and Anbar provinces.



 Whereas: The majority in Congress has put forth several 


 plans that do not include escalation of combat troops.



 Whereas: The General Election of Nov. 7th showed that the 


 American people voted for a new direction in Iraq and 


 Afghanistan.



 Whereas: The Administration has tried four times to 


 escalate the war with the additional troops in Iraq, all to 


 no avail in stopping the bloodshed among the Sunnis and the 


 Shites.



 Therefore: The Broward County Veterans Council, believes 


 that the best plan is to bring our troops home now, in a 


 phased redeployment, and start redeploying our combat troops 


 to the outer borders of Iraq and into Kuwait. Let's get them 


 out of harm's way, without our troops getting involved in a 


 bloody civil war, expedite the training of Iraqi military and 


 police forces and let the Iraqis settle their differences 


 among themselves. At the same time bring all the regional 


 Arab nations to a summit meeting to discuss a final political 


 settlement as recommended by the Iraq Study Group.



 Bill Kling, Chairman, Broward County Veteran Council.



 This resolution was passed by the BCVC members present at 


 the meetings and does not necessarily reflect the views of 


 the National Veteran organizations.
