---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `11bc4fd94801488ccda62343b1e293f0`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Speaker, I support President Obama's request to 
provide our troops with the equipment and support they need for their 
mission. We also owe it to our troops to have a realistic strategy that 
is worthy of their sacrifice.

The toughest decisions we face as a nation are questions of war and 
peace. Whenever we ask the men and women of our armed forces to put 
their lives at risk, the President and Members of Congress have a 
solemn obligation to consider all the facts and exercise their best 
judgment for the country.

More than 8 years ago, our nation was the target of a terrorist 
attack launched by al Qaeda operating out of Afghanistan. The United 
Nations unanimously passed a resolution supporting the right of the 
United States to respond forcefully to that attack. Our NATO allies 
universally backed our actions, invoking the provisions of the NATO 
charter stating that an attack on one was an attack on all. Today, 
largely because the Bush administration diverted attention and 
resources away from this region to Iraq, Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda 
continue to regain strength and plot attacks against Americans from 
along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. The Bush Administration also 
failed to persuade Pakistan to confront the Afghan Taliban insurgents 
operating inside Pakistan with the support of al Qaeda.

While there is no doubt that al Qaeda operates in parts of Yemen, 
Sudan, Somalia, and other areas, the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region 
remains the operational and ideological center for al Qaeda's global 
operations. The President is right to conclude that allowing al Qaeda 
to operate there unchecked poses a serious security risk to the U.S. 
and American citizens around the world.

President Obama has developed a carefully considered and 
comprehensive ''counterinsurgency'' strategy for Afghanistan and 
Pakistan that relies not only on the use of troops but also the use of 
civilian resources.

The strategy has four parts. First, American and NATO forces will 
accelerate the training and deployment of the Afghan national security 
forces, both army and police. This will allow U.S. forces to begin 
returning home starting in July of next year. Second, in the interim, 
U.S. and Afghan forces will reverse the Taliban's momentum by working 
to stabilize major population centers.

Third, the strategy engages Pakistan as a full partner in these 
efforts. As a result of better coordination between our two countries, 
for the first time since the beginning of the war, al Qaeda and the 
Taliban are being genuinely challenged by the Pakistan military.

Finally, the U.S. will work with its partners in Afghanistan and 
Pakistan to create a more effective civilian strategy--with the goal of 
establishing sustainable economic opportunities for Afghans and 
strengthening the country's national and local governance structures. 
As the 9-11 Commission determined, extremist groups exploit the poor 
socioeconomic conditions, such as high unemployment, in the border 
areas to gain adherents to their cause. With this in mind, I introduced 
the Afghanistan-Pakistan Security and Prosperity Enhancement Act, which 
will allow the President to designate Reconstruction Opportunity Zones, 
ROZs, in Afghanistan and parts of Pakistan and allow qualified 
businesses duty-free access to U.S. markets for designated products. 
This legislation, which has passed the House and is pending in the 
Senate, would help create meaningful job opportunities for young people 
who are currently vulnerable to the lure of extremism.

The President's strategy contains a timeline which initiates a 
responsible redeployment of American troops in July of next year. He 
has established this timeline to send a clear message to the Afghan 
government that they must take seriously their role in creating a 
stable Afghanistan and to communicate to the people of Afghanistan that 
the U.S. has no interest in an open-ended engagement in their country.

During floor consideration of the House bill, I supported the 
McGovern/Obey Amendment, which would codify the president's plan to 
initiate a responsible drawdown of U.S. forces beginning a year from 
now. That amendment required that by April 4, 2011, the president 
submit to Congress a redeployment plan that is consistent with the 
policy he announced in December 2009. That amendment did not pass and 
the Senate bill did not contain a similar amendment.

The choice we face today is to cut off all funds for our troops in 
the field and operations in Afghanistan or support President Obama's 
request to provide the resources necessary to support the strategy 
outlined in his speech of December 2009. I oppose the immediate 
withdrawal of all U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan for two reasons. 
First, it would immediately strengthen the hand of the most extremist 
Taliban leaders (those most closely tied to al Qaeda), undercutting any 
leverage behind ongoing efforts to get some Taliban fighters to lay 
down their arms and undermining Afghan President Hamid Karzai's new 
initiative to reach a political accommodation with those members of the 
Taliban open to national reconciliation. If such a political solution 
is undermined and the old Taliban regime


retakes control of Afghanistan, they will again turn that country into 
a safe haven for expanded al Qaeda operations. It would also lead to 
the return of an extreme Taliban regime that encourages horrendous acts 
like pouring gasoline into the eyes of girls who attempt to go to 
school.

Second, the immediate withdrawal of U.S. and NATO forces would weaken 
Pakistan's resolve to confront the Pakistani Taliban, the Afghan 
Taliban, and al Qaeda. The most promising development over the last 
year has been the Government of Pakistan's willingness to fight the 
growing menace of the Pakistani Taliban. In addition, very recently, 
the Pakistani government has also shown a willingness to confront 
elements of the Afghan Taliban. The capture of Mullah Bandar, the 
operational chief of the Afghan Taliban, and two Afghan Taliban shadow 
governors, demonstrates this progress. The withdrawal of U.S. forces 
from Afghanistan would sabotage those nascent efforts. Why should the 
Pakistani forces confront the Afghan Taliban if the U.S. walks away 
now?

There are no guarantees of success in Afghanistan and Pakistan. But, 
we do know that failure to confront al Qaeda would leave Americans 
constantly exposed to another attack like that perpetrated on September 
11, 2001.

Madam Speaker, I support adoption of the FY10 Supplemental 
Appropriations bill.