---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `11df173d4566ca0f5936bf30a3e0c503`
`Mr. DOOLITTLE — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. DOOLITTLE. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that 80 days into the fiscal 
year, the House has passed a budget that remains within the spending 
limits set by the President and contains essential funding for our 
soldiers serving in Iraq. Furthermore, I am glad several projects 
within the Fourth Congressional District are included in the final 
version of the bill. These projects are important to the people within 
my district, and will provide essential funding for new highway 
infrastructures, wastewater treatment facilities, and law enforcement 
upgrades, as well as other important projects. In addition, I am 
pleased at what this bill does not contain; harmful policy riders that 
would have opened the door for American tax dollars to be spent on 
abortions for citizens of foreign nations, and those that would tie the 
hands of our military leaders in Iraq.

However, I could not support this legislation due to the harm it 
causes to the completion of the border fence, which was authorized by 
Congress in the passage of the Secure Fence Act of 2006. Congress sent 
a clear message that a border fence should be constructed when it 
passed the Secure Fence Act. Specifically, it mandated the construction 
of 700 miles of fence along our southwestern border. Instead of 
building on this legislation, provisions in the omnibus increase 
bureaucratic


roadblocks, create new restrictions for the Department of Homeland 
Security (DHS), and repeal important measures that were signed into law 
in the 2006 bill.

In particular, a provision in the omnibus gives DHS the discretion on 
whether or not to build a fence, essentially eliminating the central 
tenet of the Secure Fence Act, which specifies locations where a fence 
shall be built. I am also deeply concerned that restrictions included 
in the omnibus, such as eliminating the authority of DHS to identify 
additional areas for fencing at the end of 2008 and requiring an 
onerous analysis of each 15 miles of planned fencing, will essentially 
end the project before the fence will be completed.

In addition to this harmful language, a provision in the omnibus 
requires that in locations where a border fence will be constructed, 
DHS must abide by excessive consultation and reporting requirements, 
thereby placing further bureaucratic roadblocks in front of an already 
delayed process. This language will require DHS to consult with other 
Federal agencies, State and local governments, Indian tribes, and 
landowners to minimize the impact on the environment, culture, 
commerce, and quality of life near where the fence will be constructed. 
However, while requiring this excessive consultation to be completed, 
this provision gives no guidance as to when the consultation can be 
determined to be completed and construction can begin.

Americans should not have to sacrifice border security for the 
passage of the fiscal budget. It is my hope that Congress will 
readdress this issue when it reconvenes in January and correct these 
provisions to ensure a border fence will be completed.