# THE FY10 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS BILL
## `11e6f334cea024c1e6bc49965227427c`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 13 July 2010`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Speaker, this supplemental bill contains 
funding to support our troops in the field and resources to keep our 
teachers in the classroom. It also provides funding for other 
priorities, including strengthening our border security and relief to 
victims of the oil spill in the Gulf and the earthquake in Haiti.

I support President Obama's request to provide our troops with the 
equipment and support they need for their mission. We also owe it to 
our troops to have a realistic strategy that is worthy of their 
sacrifice.

The toughest decisions we face as a nation are questions of war and 
peace. Whenever we ask the men and women of our armed forces to put 
their lives at risk, the President and Members of Congress have a 
solemn obligation to consider all the facts and exercise their best 
judgment for the country.

More than eight years ago, our nation was the target of a terrorist 
attack launched by al Qaeda operating out of Afghanistan. The United 
Nations unanimously passed a resolution supporting the right of the 
United States to respond forcefully to that attack. Our NATO allies 
universally backed our actions, invoking the provisions of the NATO 
charter stating that an attack on one was an attack on all. Today, 
largely because the Bush administration diverted attention and 
resources away from this region to Iraq, Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda 
continue to regain strength and plot attacks against Americans from 
along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. The Bush Administration also 
failed to persuade Pakistan to confront the Afghan Taliban insurgents 
operating inside Pakistan with the support of al Qaeda.

While there is no doubt that al Qaeda operates in parts of Yemen, 
Sudan, Somalia, and other areas, the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region 
remains the operational and ideological center for al Qaeda's global 
operations. The President is right to conclude that allowing al Qaeda 
to operate there unchecked poses a serious security risk to the U.S. 
and American citizens around the world.

President Obama has developed a carefully considered and 
comprehensive ''counterinsurgency'' strategy for Afghanistan and 
Pakistan that relies not only on the use of troops but also the use of 
civilian resources.

The strategy has four parts. First, American and NATO forces will 
accelerate the training and deployment of the Afghan national security 
forces, both army and police. This will allow U.S. forces to begin 
returning home starting in July of next year. Second, in the interim, 
U.S. and Afghan forces will reverse the Taliban's momentum by working 
to stabilize major population centers.

Third, the strategy engages Pakistan as a full partner in these 
efforts. As a result of better coordination between our two countries, 
for the first time since the beginning of the war, al Qaeda and the 
Taliban are being genuinely challenged by the Pakistan military.

Finally, the U.S. will work with its partners in Afghanistan and 
Pakistan to create a more effective civilian strategy--with the goal of 
establishing sustainable economic opportunities for Afghans and 
strengthening the country's national and local governance structures. 
As the 9-11 Commission determined, extremist groups exploit the poor 
socioeconomic conditions, such as high unemployment, in the border 
areas to gain adherents to their cause. With this in mind, I introduced 
the Afghanistan-Pakistan Security and Prosperity Enhancement Act, which 
will allow the President to designate Reconstruction Opportunity Zones 
(ROZs) in Afghanistan and parts of Pakistan and allow qualified 
businesses duty-free access to U.S. markets for designated products. 
This legislation, which has passed the House and is pending in the 
Senate, would help create meaningful job opportunities for young people 
who are currently vulnerable to the lure of extremism.

The President's strategy contains a timeline which initiates a 
responsible redeployment of American troops in July of next year. He 
has established this timeline to send a clear message to the Afghan 
government that they must take seriously their role in creating a 
stable Afghanistan and to communicate to the people of Afghanistan that 
the U.S. has no interest in an open-ended engagement in their country.

During floor consideration of the bill, I supported the McGovern/Obey 
Amendment which would codify the president's plan to initiate a 
responsible drawdown of U.S. forces beginning a year from now. The 
amendment requires that by April 4, 2011, the president submit to 
Congress a redeployment plan that is consistent with the policy he 
announced in December 2009.

While I supported the McGovern/Obey Amendment, I opposed amendments 
that would lead to the immediate cutoff of funds to support the 
president's strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The immediate 
withdrawal of U.S. forces from Afghanistan would have two negative 
consequences. First, it would immediately strengthen the hand of the 
most extremist Taliban leaders (those most closely tied to al Qaeda), 
undercutting any leverage behind ongoing efforts to get some Taliban 
fighters to lay down their arms and undermining Afghan President Hamid 
Karzai's new initiative to reach a political accommodation with those 
members of the Taliban open to national reconciliation. If such a 
political solution is undermined and the old Taliban regime retakes 
control of Afghanistan, they will again turn that country into a safe 
haven for expanded al Qaeda operations. It would also lead to the 
return of an extreme Taliban regime that encourages horrendous acts 
like pouring gasoline into the eyes of girls who attempt to go to 
school.

Second, an immediate withdrawal of NATO forces would weaken 
Pakistan's resolve to confront the Pakistani Taliban, the Afghan 
Taliban, and al Qaeda. The most promising development over the last 
year has been the Government of Pakistan's willingness to fight the 
growing menace of the Pakistani Taliban. In addition, very recently, 
the Pakistani government has also shown a willingness to confront 
elements of the Afghan Taliban. The capture of Mullah Bandar, the 
operational chief of the Afghan Taliban, and two Afghan Taliban shadow 
governors, demonstrates this progress. The withdrawal of U.S. forces 
from Afghanistan would sabotage those nascent efforts. Why should the 
Pakistani forces confront the Afghan Taliban if the U.S. walks away 
now?

There are no guarantees of success in Afghanistan and Pakistan. But, 
we do know that failure to confront al Qaeda would leave Americans 
constantly exposed to another attack like that perpetrated on September 
11, 2001.

In addition to funding for our troops, the bill also includes $10 
billion to preserve teachers' jobs--a priority for many members of 
Congress as well as the Administration. While I share the 
Administration's concern about paying for this vital relief with 
unexpended ''Race to the Top'' funds, I am certain the Committee would 
have welcomed the Administration's input to identify other viable pay-
fors.

To help families suffering as a result of the recession, the measure 
includes $4.95 billion for Pell grants and $50 million for emergency 
food assistance.

To strengthen homeland security, the bill includes $701 million for 
enforcement along our southern border, including $208 million for 1200 
additional Border Patrol agents.

Finally, for those still suffering in the wake of the devastating 
earthquake in Haiti and the Deepwater Horizon disaster, the bill 
includes $2.9 billion and $162 million respectively.

Madam Speaker, I support adoption of the FY10 Supplemental 
Appropriations Bill.
