# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `11e9e3cdb99ffae859f61c45f013f3bc`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 10 May 2007`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Chairman, I rise today to address two matters 
in the intelligence authorization bill.

For too long, the intelligence community has been increasing its use 
of contractors without internal or congressional oversight. For the 
first time, the Director of National Intelligence has conducted a 
contractor survey to begin to get a handle on the situation. A simple 
survey, however, is not sufficient to understand how we are using 
contractors and whether the use of such contractors is appropriate.

This bill takes an important step towards understanding the use of 
contractors. It requires the DNI Inspector General to report on 
intelligence contractors committing waste, fraud or abuse. It also 
requires a report on contractor accountability and their effect on the 
workforce, all positive steps toward better oversight.

But there is one issue this bill does not address that I firmly 
believe raises a fundamental question as to who we are as a Nation. The 
President has acknowledged that the intelligence community kept 
prisoners in undisclosed detention sites and has reserved the right to 
do so in the future. We should reject this policy.

In Nazi Germany, millions of people were sent to camps, never to be 
heard from again. During the Cold War, thousands of people disappeared 
into gulags. Saddam Hussein's secret prisons still strike fear into the 
hearts of Iraqis. Each time, our Nation stood as a beacon of human 
rights and strongly objected to those practices. If we endorse any 
policy that allows undisclosed detention, we undermine our moral 
authority to stand against such atrocities in the future.

The United States should be beyond reproach in its treatment of 
detainees. In the first Gulf War, the International Committee of the 
Red Cross called U.S. compliance with the Geneva Conventions the best 
of any nation in any conflict in the history of the convention.

If we lower that standard for how we treat prisoners, we weaken our 
ability to insist on the highest standards of treatment for our own 
military personnel and civilians abroad, thus endangering their safety 
and undermining our standing in the world. More importantly, we 
sacrifice the principles on which this country is based.

I want to thank the chairman for considering all these important 
matters in the intelligence bill and for his leadership on this good 
bill.