# THE 34TH ANNIVERSARY OF INVASION OF CYPRUS
## `1221d261550528626b893370379e3c6d`
`Mr. BILIRAKIS — 22 July 2008`

---


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise not only as a Member of this 
esteemed body, but more importantly, as a member of the House Committee 
on Foreign Affairs and also as co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on 
Hellenic Issues. I stand before you today to recall a somber 
anniversary that has pained the Cypriot and Hellenic communities for 
the past 34 years.

Mr. Speaker, even though the tragic events of the Turkish invasion of 
Cyprus took place as long ago as July 20, 1974, believe it or not, the 
suffering of the victims has not subsided. This anniversary is a time 
for America to respectfully remember the brutal Turkish military 
invasion of Cyprus, to mourn those who lost their lives, and to condemn 
the continued occupation. Five thousand Cypriots were killed in 1974, 
and more than 1,400 Greek Cypriots, including four Americans of Cypriot 
descent, still remain missing.

Since the invasion, Turkey has established a heavily armed military 
occupation that continues to control nearly 40 percent of the island. 
Forced expulsions of Greek Cypriots on the occupied land have left 
nearly 200,000 people displaced. These Cypriots were kicked out of 
their homes, making them refugees in their own country. Those 
properties have been unlawfully distributed and are currently being 
used by the tens of thousands of illegal settlers from Turkey. To this 
day, Greek Cypriots are prevented by Turkey from returning to their 
homes and properties.

Another tragic result of this 34-year occupation is the division 
among Greek and Turkish Cypriots, who have been forcibly separated 
along ethnic lines. This unnatural division of the island Nation is a 
crime against society and the people of Cyprus that can only be 
resolved by ending this occupation.

Mr. Speaker, 34 years is just too long. On the occasion of this 
anniversary, we need to take a long, hard look at our own commitment 
toward helping Cyprus reach a lasting and enduring peace, free from 
occupation, division, and oppression.

Last year, the U.S. House had the wisdom and foresight to unanimously 
pass H. Res. 405, a measure I introduced, which expressed strong 
support from this body for the implementation of the July 8 agreement. 
This year, a new President was elected in Cyprus. President Demitris 
Christofias has followed through on his promise to make the solution of 
the Cyprus problem his top priority and principal concern. The day of 
his election, he extended a hand of friendship to the Turkish Cypriot 
leader, Mehmet Talat, and called on him to meet face-to-face to begin 
implementing the July 8 agreement.

The Republic of Cyprus has also worked alongside its European 
neighbors to bring about a stronger integration of Turkish and Greek 
Cypriot interests for the good of the island. This has included a 
partial lifting on restrictions of movement across the cease-fire line 
that continues to forcibly divide Cyprus. As a result, since 2003, more 
than 13 million Greek and Turkish Cypriots have crossed without 
incident.

Additionally, the per capita income of Turkish Cypriots has nearly 
tripled in the last 3 years because of an aggressive integration policy 
by the Republic of Cyprus.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that because of this continued integration 
between Turkish and Greek Cypriots, and the economic and political 
successes that the Republic of Cyprus so readily wants to share with 
its neighbors, it is possible to bring closure to this 34-year 
occupation.

Cyprus has long been a strong and faithful ally of the United States. 
It continues to work with us in the global war on terrorism and has 
supported our efforts in both Afghanistan and Iraq. Aside from 
providing over-flight rights and port access, the Government of Cyprus 
has joined only a handful of Nations who have acted on their commitment 
to cancel Iraq's outstanding debt.

Mr. Speaker, 34 years is long enough. It is not impossible to 
conceive one day having a Cyprus that is unified under a bizonal, 
bicommunal federation with a single sovereignty, single international 
personality, and single citizenship with respect for human rights and 
fundamental freedoms for all Cypriots.

We, Americans, as friends of the Cypriot people, owe it to them to do 
everything in our power to support peace and an end to this illegal 
occupation.
