---
---

# None
## `12256e186e58efdcbf74f795165b5114`
`Ms. SNOWE — 24 July 2008`

---


Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, today I rise in strong support of the Warm 
In Winter and Cool In Summer Act as the lead Republican cosponsor, 
along with 52 of my colleagues on both sides of the political aisle.

I first thank the Senator from Vermont, Senator Sanders, for his 
tireless leadership on this vital issue of heating and cooling 
assistance and for his steadfast vigilance throughout the last few 
months in pressing for this debate on energy assistance when there is 
not a moment to waste in preparing for what could be the worst winter 
in a generation, given the historic cost of energy today. At a time 
when skyrocketing energy prices are at the forefront of our national 
agenda--when heating oil prices have increased from about $2.77 per 
gallon a year ago in my home State of Maine to a staggering $4.81 cents 
a gallon today, and when electricity has risen 3.6 percent in the last 
12 months, and gas prices have jumped from $3.05 a gallon to $4.05 in 
the last year--as we know, it should come as no surprise that countless 
American families are faced with choices that, frankly, no family 
should have to make. Indeed, as a direct result


of spiraling energy costs, 70 percent of low-income Americans are 
buying less at the grocery store, 31 percent are purchasing less 
medicine, and 19 percent say they have changed plans for the education 
of their children. Even now, in the midst of July, in truth, 
Americans--and certainly Mainers across my home State--are wondering 
how exactly they will pay for the fundamental necessity of heating 
their homes this coming winter, just as many others cannot afford the 
costs for critical cooling during these dangerously hot summer months 
in so many States. In fact, in South Carolina, electricity services 
have been suspended to 39,000 homes that are falling behind on their 
bills, leaving these individuals with no assistance to alleviate the 
stifling heat. In Arizona there has been a 40-percent spike in shutoffs 
for residential electricity users. The bottom line is this issue knows 
no boundaries regionally or politically.

The reality is the stunning effects of these astronomical energy 
costs are not a regional problem, they are a national problem requiring 
national attention and a national solution. In fact, as I think about 
it, with the Low-Income Heating Assistance Program pending before the 
Senate--at least the motion to proceed; and I hope we will proceed, Mr. 
President and Members of this body, because I think we ought to be 
translating words into action--I think there is no better place to 
start than on this very crucial and vital program. In fact, if I 
recall, it was back in 1979 and 1980 when we first had the debate on 
whether to create this program called the Low-Income Fuel Assistance 
Program, and it was my first term in the House of Representatives. I, 
along with the late Speaker O'Neill, testified before the then House 
Appropriations Committee to create such a program. It was born out of 
the energy crisis that was engulfing our Nation at that time when we 
had gas lines here in the District of Columbia and across this country.

It was interesting to think that at that time, in the midst of an 
energy crisis, that previously--6 years previously or 7 years 
previously--we had another energy crisis and, unfortunately, didn't 
learn from that event. Out of that crisis in 1979 and 1980, we created 
the Low-Income Fuel Assistance Program in order to give low-income 
families the ability to heat their homes and to cool their homes in 
other parts of the country. That is how this program was created. So I 
think this program was created as a result of a crisis--as a result of 
the failure of this country to create and enact a comprehensive energy 
plan. I think too today, 30 years later, we are in the same 
circumstance, regrettably and tragically, and the people who rely on 
this program should not be the victims of our inability, or our 
unwillingness, to address the energy problem. That is what we should 
come to terms with here in the Senate, that we should proceed to 
consider this legislation and have it become law. I think absolutely it 
is our responsibility and obligation to give peace of mind to our 
constituency as they are despairing about the oncoming winter and how 
they are going to meet the costs of home heating oil that is now close 
to $5 per gallon.

I think we do have an obligation to continue to support this social 
safety net that is so essential. It is a matter of life and death, and 
I don't think they should be the victims of our political failure or 
our failure to address a comprehensive energy policy. That should 
happen. No doubt it should. Frankly, I hope we can reconcile our 
rhetoric here on the floor of the Senate with legislative action that 
becomes law that has an actual, direct impact on people's daily lives. 
They deserve that. They deserve for us to take action. Irrespective of 
the time or place we are in, in the Senate--whether or not it is a 
political year--we ought to reconcile our differences to do what is 
right for America on this mighty challenge that is facing so many 
across this country, including my constituency.

Here we are in the third energy crisis of recent times, and we see 
that the program was at least designed to minimize the burden for the 
least fortunate for years and has provided a level of funding. However, 
as you can see, with the historically high home heating oil prices you 
see over time, and yet, even though we have provided funding for low-
income fuel assistance basically on a consistent basis, it never 
addressed the gap between the level of funding and the costs for home 
heating oil. So we are seeing, as you can see in the recent times, in 
the recent months, what has happened to the cost of home heating oil. 
Yet at the same time the level of funding for low-income fuel 
assistance has leveled off.

That is why we need the legislation that is pending before the 
Senate. My colleague Senator Sanders is absolutely right, we need to 
double this funding. I thank the chairman of the Budget Committee as 
well for doubling the authorization. I appreciate his leadership on 
this question because we are in very different times, and that is the 
reason why we need to increase the level of support for this valuable 
program.

This program is for the most vulnerable. We are talking about income 
limits of $17,680 for an individual, and the average individual 
recipient earns around $13,000 per year. Think about it. The assistance 
we are providing is for those who have income eligibility of somewhere 
between $17,000 and $13,000 on an individual basis. That is who we are 
talking about when it comes to the income eligibility standards for 
low-income fuel assistance--$13,000 for an individual and as high as 
$17,000, and for a family of four the limit is $36,000. In Maine, in 
terms of the projected costs for paying for a household for home 
heating oil during the course of a winter, based on today's prices, is 
close to $5,000, just to keep warm this winter--$5,000. So if the 
eligibility standards are $33,000--$36,000 for a family of four, and 
for an individual it is anywhere from $13,000 to $17,000, it costs 
$5,000 to heat one's home or residence for a winter. These are hard-
working individuals and families who, quite frankly, were in desperate 
need of assistance back in 2006 when we witnessed the first major 
increase in home heating oil. So we were able to provide additional 
funding at that time of $1 billion for a total of $3.1 billion. At that 
point, again, it was a crisis that, given the sharp hike, New 
Englanders were paying about $2.39 per gallon. Well, fast forward 2 
years to today and you will see, based on our charts we have provided, 
that oil costs $4.81. That is a 75-percent increase in only 2 years--75 
percent.


So we augmented the funding back in 2006 up to $3.1 billion when home 
heating oil was $2.39. Today, it is at $4.81, and of course we are in 
July, so we have no idea in terms of what we can anticipate or expect 
for home heating oil costs when it comes to winter. So a 75-percent 
increase as we know it today. So when winter actually arrives, New 
England could spend, under today's prices, more than $19 billion on 
home heating oil--$19 billion on home heating oil alone. That is a 
staggering price increase compared to back in 2006 when it was 
approximately $9 billion. That gives us a dimension of the escalation 
of the problem as we face it today and still not knowing what we can 
expect when winter approaches.

As we see on this other chart I have presented, here is the cost of 
home heating oil, and as we have seen, it has increased 147 percent 
since 2004. So basically, in the last 3/1/2/ years, we have seen an 
increase in home heating oil of 147 percent. Yet when you look at the 
wage increase, it has only been 17.1 percent. So you see that the cost 
of home heating oil in Maine has outpaced wages by 174 percent. Prices 
are now well ensconced in the stratosphere, with the legitimate fears 
that the sky may not, in fact, be the limit. It is a huge disparity 
when you see how little wages have grown over the last 3/1/2/ years and 
what has happened with a basic commodity such as home heating oil 
having increased 147 percent.

Yet given all of these alarming numbers, what has happened to the 
level of low-income fuel assistance? It has actually dropped. It has 
actually declined to $2.5 billion from the $3.1 billion that we 
provided and that I sought, very actively, back in 2006, when the 
prices had spiked. So we were able to augment, as I said, that funding 
by an additional billion dollars to reach $3.1 billion, but 
unfortunately, the funding for low-income fuel assistance fell back to 
$2.5 billion. So it obviously doesn't make sense. We are actually 
regressing in terms of a level of funding at a time when home heating 
oil is actually skyrocketing and we don't know where the boundaries 
are, we don't know where


the limitations are. As I said, the sky could be the limit, given what 
the unknown presents for the future with respect to home heating oil.

In testimony before the Senate Committee on Small Business that 
Senator Kerry and I convened last month to discuss the dimensions 
involving small businesses and home heating oil and what the impact 
would be in our region, I had an individual from my State--her name is 
Jennifer Brooks--who is the community relations manager at Penquis 
Community Action Program. They are on the front lines of providing 
critical services to Maine in multiple counties during these difficult 
times.

Last year, the community action program provided fuel assistance to 
more than 9,000 Maine households. The average benefit received by each 
household was $736. In order to qualify for low-income fuel assistance 
this upcoming heating season, a family of four must earn less than 
$31,800. So under the best case scenario, if a household does qualify 
for LIHEAP and benefits remain constant, a household on average can 
expect to receive 158 gallons of oil for the season, which isn't even 
enough to fill a 250-gallon tank one time.

We know it takes, on average, to get through a Maine winter, 850 
gallons of heating oil--850 to 1,000 gallons--and it costs $4.81, which 
we know is the price today. When you look at what is available in the 
low-income fuel assistance program, if we fail to take action and 
increase funding, as this legislation would prescribe, to $5.1 billion, 
our lowest income families will receive a mere 19 percent of their home 
heating oil costs through this program--the lowest in the program's 
history.

Now, it is unbelievable to think people can anticipate this winter 
facing, at the minimum, spending close to $5,000 for home heating oil. 
Yet given the dimensions of this program, we will only be able to 
provide support for 19 percent of the entire cost for the entire 
winter. As you can see from the previous support of this program, the 
percentages have declined over the years. Over the last 25 years, the 
average Maine low-income fuel assistance recipient received assistance 
that provided 41 percent of their heating oil costs. Last year, that 
started eroding, and it declined from $3.1 billion to $2.5 billion. For 
the nearly 50,000 Maine households that received benefits, they were 
only provided 35 percent of the entire cost for the season.

At today's prices, if we fail to increase or double the funding of 
the low-income fuel assistance program to $5.1 billion, then we can 
only provide 19 percent of the entire cost of winter for home heating 
oil. Obviously, I think that speaks volumes, in terms of the dimension 
of the problem we are facing and what families are facing in my State, 
in New England, and across the country. Whether you are living in a 
cold- or hot-weather region, you depend on this program either for air-
conditioning or heating during the winter. It is a basic social safety 
net program.

I think it is absolutely incumbent upon us to do everything we can to 
double funding for this program and to do it now and provide the 
assurances, instead of the rhetoric about what we will do sometime down 
the road. I think we do have a responsibility, individually and 
collectively, to make the process work in the Senate and in the 
Congress, with the President, to do what is right for this country, for 
these families who are agonizing over the anticipation of what next 
winter will bring in terms of costs. Here, with this program, we are 
talking about the lowest of incomes. When it comes to $13,000, $17,000 
for a family of four, or even $31,000 or $33,000, we need to help these 
families and these individuals, without question.

As my constituent Jennifer Brooks said in her testimony before the 
Small Business Committee:




 If the average person on fuel assistance makes about 


 $14,000 a year and the benefit only pays for 158 gallons of 


 oil, I don't know how they come up with any more money . . . 


 they can't, with the cost of food and the cost of gas and 


 everything else. There is no money left over to pay even in 


 the summer months . . . there is talk [of having] ''warming 


 places'' so people can shut their furnaces down real low 


 during the day and go to libraries and stay warm during the 


 day . . . we are in a crisis.


Last year, I heard many stories. After we were expecting $2.50 to 
$2.70 a gallon for home heating oil, I heard stories of desperation 
then. One TV station, channel 13, in Portland, ME, decided they would 
initiate a program where they would provide a few hundred gallons of 
heating oil to four families requiring assistance. They were asked to 
submit e-mails or letters if they believe they qualified for this 
assistance. They received an astounding response, with more than 2,000 
requests.

Again, there is no doubt as to the magnitude of the problem. That was 
for last winter. One hesitates to think about what we can expect for 
this winter, when prices have increased by more than $2 since last 
winter. Here we are in July. So we must step up to our responsibilities 
in this crisis and fully fund the low-income fuel assistance program at 
the $5.1 billion. That is the least we can do. It is not that it will 
address all the problems or fulfill the needs for all those individuals 
who rely on this program, but certainly it will be a very important 
step forward. We must do it now. We should be proactive and preemptive 
and prescriptive in our measures, not reactive, and not wait until 
after the August recess and continue to dither and talk but fail to 
take action.

We have a responsibility to provide assurances to those people we 
represent in this country, to take the strong measures, and to take 
those actions that are so vital and instrumental to providing peace of 
mind during these very difficult times when people are facing these 
mighty challenges.

There are many ways to debate this energy problem. Certainly, we 
should have a comprehensive energy solution, no doubt. I don't think we 
should place the burden on those individuals who rely on this program, 
who are concerned--deeply concerned--and anguishing about the future 
because of our failure to reconcile our differences to reach out across 
the political aisle. I question as to why we cannot do it. I don't 
think we should live in an all-or-nothing world because that is not the 
world our constituents live in. These issues are not mutually 
exclusive. It is not that we cannot do one because we were haven't done 
the other. How about starting someplace? We can start with this 
program, which was born because of an energy crisis 30 years ago. We 
are in a similar circumstance today.

These people should not bear the brunt of our political failures or 
unwillingness or inability to resolve these differences.

I think the Senate should not be a roadblock to results but a pathway 
to hope. What I see here today, regrettably, is, again, my way or the 
highway. Here, at a time when we are dealing with monumental challenges 
confronting this Nation--and they are affecting our country 
simultaneously. Look at our economy and the job picture, the housing, 
energy, and we are in a war in Iraq and in Afghanistan and we continue 
to dither, to remain intractable, intransigent about achieving results. 
Truly, it is not in keeping with the legacy of this institution, which 
has done so much throughout our history.

That is why Senator Nelson, from Nebraska, and I sent a letter to the 
President, along with 14 other colleagues, asking the President for a 
bipartisan summit. After all, we think these times demand it. The 
President should convene a national energy summit, bringing together 
the congressional leadership, on a bipartisan basis, and other Members 
of the House and Senate from the committees of jurisdiction, 
environmental leaders, industry leaders and scientists, to sit around a 
table to see what we can do for the good of this country now.

It is immaterial that we are in an election year, that we are 7 
months away from the election. The American people deserve to have us 
honor our obligations as elected officials. After all, there was an 
election in 2006, as I recall. We promised our constituents we would 
work on the problems facing this country. Here we are today with an 
abysmal 14 percent approval rating. I don't know, that may be the 
lowest approval rating in the history of Gallup Polls.

We all bear a responsibility, individually and collectively. We 
should care how Americans feel about this institution and what can we 
do every day to


make it better. Some days, I wonder if we wake up and say: Well, this 
is going to be another ''can't do'' day. We are not going to achieve 
anything for the people. We are going to see if we can continue to be a 
roadblock to results and action. We are going to do everything we can 
to be a barrier to solutions. We will wait for the next election or 
next year or maybe some other time.

Yet people are suffering. They are losing their jobs. They are 
wondering how to heat their homes next winter. They are losing their 
homes. This is a time for us to step up to the plate and demonstrate to 
the American people that we can do it. Frankly, we are experiencing a 
crisis in confidence in America, in a variety of institutions, not the 
least of which is Congress. People are not only despairing about their 
individual situations, they are also despairing about the inability of 
elected officials in our political institutions to address these 
problems. It is not so much that America has these problems, it is the 
question of our inability to address them and to reach across the 
political aisle.


I hope we can find a way to extricate ourselves from this 
confrontational morass and not constantly engage in all-or-nothing 
politics and scoring political points, making it all about the 
election, and not live up to the expectations the people rightfully 
have of their elected officials and political institutions to address 
the mighty challenges confronting this Nation.

Without question, we can and we must have answers to this national 
emergency. That is why I thought it would be an important step forward 
if the President convened an emergency energy summit. There are short-
term and long-term solutions. There are many pieces to the energy pie. 
The low-income energy assistance program is a critical aspect of that 
in terms of mitigating the impact on the most vulnerable in our 
society. We have an obligation, at a very minimum, to address that for 
these individuals. It is not their burden and it should not be; they 
should not have the responsibility of our failure to address the energy 
problem. That is why we need to double the funding for this critical 
program.

Yes, we should pass legislation with respect to speculation. It is 
something most of us agree on. Why can't we do it? There are other 
aspects to energy policy we have failed to address. Everybody is 
agreeing we should extend the tax credit for renewables. So why haven't 
we done that? It should have been part of the stimulus package--and it 
was, to a point. But, regrettably, again, there were those who opposed 
it. Yet it could have very well been stimulative to this economy. It 
would have created up to 100,000 jobs. In Maine, we get $1.5 billion 
for wind projects, but we didn't extend the tax credits for renewables 
beyond this year. Why couldn't we do it? Everybody talks about it. Yet 
we failed to address that problem. We keep postponing, deferring, 
delaying, and denying that the problem exists. Yet this is something 
that could be readily accomplished.

My constituents are looking into alternatives; for example, wood 
pellet stoves or other energy-efficient means of heating our homes. Yet 
the tax credits for those have expired. They expired at the end of last 
year. So they cannot even resort to that as an alternative because, 
regrettably, we have not extended that tax credit.

The question is, Why? Why are we at an impasse on those issues upon 
which we agree? I think that is the most startling dimension to the 
problems facing this country--that in the Senate, where we should be 
taking and adopting the can-do approach, why can't we do the right 
thing and address this energy crisis? We all agree extending tax 
credits for renewables is something we should do. So why aren't we 
doing it? Because individuals or companies or entities aren't going to 
make investments in renewables if they don't have the assurance of tax 
credits. That is abundantly clear. They have no way of knowing how long 
or whether they are going to be extended. They are not going to put 
themselves on the line financially without the certainty of knowing 
they will be extended.

Why are we not doing that? It will create jobs and, certainly, we 
need job creation in America, at a time when unemployment is rising at 
high levels.

We should be concerned about creating jobs, and that is one 
dimension. We should be concerned about creating alternatives, creating 
incentives, inspiring innovation, entrepreneurial spirit. We should do 
all of that and more, and we hesitate and fail to take action on issues 
on which we agree, which is truly dismaying and disconcerting, most 
certainly to the American people who depend on us to take those 
measures and those steps that can begin to resolve effectively the 
problems that are at hand.

We can do all of these things. We are certainly capable of doing 
them, unless we are stuck in the status quo and the gridlock that 
constantly is where we try to score the political points time and time 
again to no avail.

I hope we can proceed and take action on this very basic social 
safety net program for the most vulnerable in our society and 
demonstrate that we do have the opportunity, these rare moments, to 
reach across the political aisle and proceed to double the funding for 
this program at this moment in time because, certainly, it is one 
program that is of immense value to the people of my State and 
throughout this country, and it is certainly at the very least, at the 
minimal, what we should be able to accomplish.

I hope we can do more. I hope we can find the political wherewithal 
to search within ourselves to reach across the political aisle so the 
monkey wrenches don't continue to grind down the deliberative process 
with polarization and partisanship that yields no achievements, no 
accomplishments, no opportunity, and provides no hope for the people we 
represent.

The American people deserve more than what they are receiving today. 
Frankly, I cannot believe that we would adjourn for the August recess 
without addressing the energy crisis--this program, speculation, and 
much more. The American people do deserve to have a comprehensive 
approach. They do deserve to have their elected officials stay here as 
long as it takes, as much time as it requires for bold action that will 
be so essential and can measure it with the problems we are facing in 
this country today.

I yield the floor.