---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE
## `122c23eeed7b03d4cb3dd11199426eb6`
`Ms. STABENOW — 20 September 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Well, my distinguished colleague is absolutely correct, 
and I thank him for his comments.

This is truly a question of values and priorities. That is what we 
are about in this business, in this Chamber, when we make decisions. 
The President has said the wealthiest among us are much more important 
than moms and dads, most of whom, by the way, are making much less than 
what we are talking about or the numbers the White House has put out. 
Those families ought to be able to, at a minimum, know that their 
children have health insurance when they get sick.

But what adds insult to injury, I believe, for the American people, 
is to know that on top of that--on top of tax priorities for the 
wealthy versus families and their health care--is the fact that on the 
one hand we have put together something that is responsible, 
bipartisan, and fully paid for within the budget, and yet the President 
is going to be sending us a request for anywhere from $150 billion to 
$200 billion more for a war in Iraq that the American people want to 
change, a policy that is not supported by the majority of Americans. To 
add insult to injury, none of it is paid for. It will go directly on to 
the national debt.

So this is a question of values and priorities. It doesn't matter, 
again as I said when I began, how much the President wants to spin it. 
We all know he has a very big megaphone, a very big bully pulpit. But 
that doesn't mean he is right. The spin machine cannot outweigh what is 
going on here in terms of American families. We have something that we 
have done together on a bipartisan basis. We should all be very proud 
of it. A basic for every single one of our families is the ability to 
know they can care for their children and they will have the health 
care they need.

Far too many families today don't get help because they do not have a 
low enough income. They are working and putting it together. Maybe it 
is a single mom, maybe it is a single dad, maybe it is mom and dad. 
They are putting together the income in a way where they can pay all 
the increased costs that everybody is having to deal with--the gas 
prices that are going up and the possibility of losing jobs. Certainly 
in my State wages are going down, and health care costs going up--all 
of the things that are squeezing our working families. But we are 
saying, you know what, one of the things we can do together, and we 
have already done it here and we are going to be sending it to the 
President, is to allow for 4 million more children to get the health 
care they need for those moms and dads who are working but not making 
enough to be able to pay for health insurance.

We, as a country, ought to be able to say we at least want the 
children to receive the health insurance they need. Health care, in my 
opinion, should be a


right for the greatest country in the world, not a privilege. Too many 
things have been given to the privileged in this country while working 
families are trying hard every day to make ends meet.

So I wish to thank all our colleagues who have worked so hard on this 
legislation. It is something we can all be very proud of, and I ask the 
President to take another look. This body together, 68 Members who 
voted, were not playing politics. We were coming together in a 
bipartisan way to be able to give more children, American children, the 
ability to get their health care needs taken care of. It is time we had 
the President join with us in the right set of priorities for American 
families.

I yield the floor.