---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `122e1db14af187b35c65f444fe5f5a82`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, we had a hearing with General Lute. 
Senator Levin presided in his able way, as always. He gave us a short 
written statement of some of his principles. I thought the American 
people might appreciate how he approaches this issue.

He spoke to people. He said this about this position:




 To a person, those with whom I have spoken conveyed two 


 clear messages: first, a message of concern for the well-


 being and safety of our men and women in harm's way; and 


 second, that we would all like to see us pursue a course 


 of action that makes our country safer while safeguarding 


 our national interests in the region. Surely, this is our 


 common ground.


He went on to say:




 But the stakes for the United States are also high. This 


 region--where America has vital national interests--will not 


 succeed if Iraq and Afghanistan do not succeed, and the U.S. 


 plays a vital role in this cause.


He went on to say this:




 No one is satisfied with the status quo: not the Iraqis, 


 not key regional partners, not the U.S. Government, and not 


 the American public. To change this, we are in the midst of 


 executing a shift in course as announced by the President in 


 January. Early results are mixed. Conditions on the ground 


 are deeply complex and are likely to continue to evolve--


 meaning that we must constantly adapt. Often, measures that 


 fix one problem in as complex an environment as this reveal 


 challenges elsewhere.


That is certainly true. General Lute continued:




 But one factor remains constant--the dedication and 


 sacrifice of our men and women, military and civilian, 


 serving in these combat zones. They are a continuing source 


 of inspiration to me and to my family.



 The position for which I have been nominated is designed 


 for one fundamental purpose: to advise the President on how 


 to provide our troops and civilians in the field with 


 increased focused, full-time, real time, support here in 


 Washington.


He goes on to say:




 The aim is to bring additional energy, discipline, and 


 sense of urgency to the process. Our troops deserve this 


 support.


I think that is a good statement, a sense of urgency for all our 
agencies and departments of Government, not just the military. He 
concludes this way:




 Mr. Chairman, I am a soldier; and our country is at war. It 


 is my privilege to serve. This position represents a major 


 personal challenge and I am humbled by the responsibility it 


 entails. If confirmed, I will give the President my 


 straightforward, candid, professional advice.


Mr. President, I yield the floor.
