---
---

# AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007
## `125f9a38a4901cb6cd9e1ad21a2c3647`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 6 June 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to yield such time as he may 
consume to Mr. Pence of Indiana, the ranking member of the Middle East 
and South Asia Subcommittee who has traveled to Afghanistan and closely 
follows the developments there.

MR. PENCE. Mr. Chairman, I especially want to thank our ranking 
member from Florida for yielding and the distinguished chairman of the 
full committee for their work on this important legislation.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the Afghanistan Freedom and 
Security Support Act, and I call for its passage. It was reported 
unanimously out of the Foreign Affairs Committee last month. Our action 
today would reauthorize the Afghanistan Freedom Support Act of 2002 
passed 5 years ago this month, just a few short months after our 
invasion of the country that harbored the September 11 attackers.

Mr. Chairman, there is nearly unanimous agreement in this body that 
the battle currently under way in Afghanistan is in our vital national 
interests, and it is crucial and central to the war on terror. It is 
critical that we adequately resource and support our mission and the 
government and the people of Afghanistan.

As with any conflict, there are both positive and troubling signs 
today in Afghanistan. Challenges facing us include a resurgent Taliban, 
growing opium trade and slow progress on reconstruction.

On the positive side, our forces, in conjunction with NATO, are 
waging war on the Taliban, pursuing terrorist nests and providing 
support to the Karzai government. I was able to witness some of the 
early fruits of these efforts firsthand, along with some of my 
colleagues in December of 2004 when I visited. As in Iraq, our troops 
and civilian efforts there are inspiring in difficult and dangerous 
conditions.

Opium production remains a plague that will haunt this country until 
it is curbed. Tragically, Afghanistan is the world's largest opium 
producer. As Antonio Maria Costa of the United Nations Office on Drugs 
and Crime said last year, and I quote, ''Afghanistan's drug situation 
remains vulnerable to reversal because of mass poverty, lack of 
security, and the fact that the authorities have inadequate control 
over its territory.''

And that's why this bill is so important. In this legislation, $1.6 
billion per year over the next 3 years are authorized for 
reconstruction and security assistance, specifically a pilot program of 
crop substitution to encourage legitimate alternatives to poppy 
cultivation, as well as an anti-corruption effort.

This bill also addresses, as has been alluded to by my colleagues, 
the continuing humanitarian needs and offers programs for women and 
children.

One of the most inspiring experiences of my life, Mr. Chairman, was 
during a visit to an American installation in the mountains of 
Jalalabad where we walked outside of the military base and visited a 
school which, for the first time, had running water, which, for the 
first time, more poignantly, had little girls in the classrooms. It was 
an extraordinary experience as I approached the gates of that school 
surrounded, as I was, by heavily armed American military personnel, 
only to see the children run forward out of the gates, embrace those 
soldiers and greet them, not as the glowering menaces that they might 
appear to a stranger but as friends. And I stood and marveled as the 
soldiers taught me words in their native Afghan tongue to greet the 
children and to be able to speak to them. It was extraordinary.

This legislation providing for the humanitarian needs and for 
programs for women and girls like those which I saw is truly treasure 
in heaven.

This legislation also encourages greater cooperation from friendly 
countries in the region, and it requires the President to keep Congress 
informed on the progress of these various issues.

Mr. Chairman, our success in Afghanistan will require a multi-tracked 
effort on numerous fronts in order for the United States to stay on the 
offensive in the war on terror and to stabilize this key ally in our 
shared struggle. The Afghanistan Freedom and Security Support Act is an 
important and central component in that fight, and I urge its strong 
support from my colleagues on both sides of the aisle.