---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `126a3ed5c08b89ee30d289a25a10d0cc`
`Mr. DURBIN — 12 September 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my colleague Senator 
Grassley in introducing the False Claims Act Correction Act of 2007. 
This bipartisan legislation takes important steps to modernize and 
strengthen the Federal False Claims Act and will help protect the 
Government and taxpayers from waste, fraud, and abuse of Government 
funds.

During the Civil War, President Abraham Lincoln saw the need for a 
law that would prevent war profiteers and other unscrupulous Government 
contractors from defrauding the Government and the Nation's taxpayers. 
Lincoln urged the passage of legislation that would allow the 
Government to seek damages and penalties against perpetrators of fraud, 
and that would permit whistleblowers with information about false or 
fraudulent claims to file qui tam lawsuits on the Government's behalf 
in exchange for a share of the recovered funds. In 1863, Congress 
heeded Lincoln's call and enacted the Federal False Claims Act, FCA, 
which became known as ''Lincoln's Law.''

Lincoln's Law is still in effect today and it is still much-needed. 
In recent years, there have been alarming reports of waste, fraud, and 
abuse of Government funds in the Iraq war and reconstruction effort, in 
the recovery from Hurricane Katrina and other disasters, in military 
and homeland security procurement contracts, and in Federal healthcare 
programs. We need strong laws that can expose and root out such 
fraudulent practices.

The last major update of the FCA took place in 1986, when Senator 
Grassley and Congressman Berman sponsored amendments that revitalized 
the FCA and its qui tam provisions in response to widespread reports of 
defense contractor fraud. Since 1986, the Federal Government and qui 
tam relators have worked together to recover over $20 billion in moneys 
that would otherwise have been lost to fraud, waste or abuse in 
Government programs. The recovery of this enormous sum is a victory for 
taxpayers, and a demonstration of the success of the FCA and its qui 
tam model.

It has now been 21 years since the enactment of the 1986 FCA 
amendments, and during that time changes in the interpretation of the 
act and in the nature of Government contracting have threatened to 
limit the FCA's effectiveness. In particular, several recent court 
decisions have weakened the intent and application of Senator 
Grassley's 1986 amendments to the FCA and have limited the FCA's 
ability to reach certain types of fraud and abuse involving Government 
programs.

The False Claims Act Correction Act seeks to correct these court 
decisions and to ensure the FCA's utility as an effective tool against 
fraud. It does so in several ways.

First, the False Claims Act Correction Act clarifies the 
''presentment requirement'' in the FCA. In 2004, the DC Circuit Court 
of Appeals held that liability under the FCA can only be found if the 
allegedly fraudulent claim is ''presented to an officer or employee of 
the United States Government.'' This interpretation has been used by 
courts to dismiss a number of FCA cases where abuses of Federal 
Government funds were clearly evident but where the false claims were 
submitted to grantees or agents of the Federal Government--such as the 
Iraq Coalition Provisional Authority--and not directly to Government 
employees. Our legislation would make clear that FCA imposes liability 
if a person presents a false or fraudulent claim for Federal Government 
money or property, and that the claim need not be directly presented to 
a Government employee.

Our legislation also clarifies the applicability of the FCA's 
''public disclosure bar.'' The FCA currently allows a relator's FCA 
case to be dismissed if the case is based on information that was 
publicly available at the time of the filing, unless the relator was 
the ''original source'' of the public information. In its 2007 decision 
in Rockwell Int'l Corp. et al. v. United States, the Supreme Court held 
that the public disclosure bar prevents a relator from recovering money 
unless the relator was an original source for all the


claims that are settled or upon which a verdict is rendered. The 
Rockwell holding is troubling because relators often file actions based 
on facts which prove to be the tip of the iceberg, and upon further 
investigation DOJ discovers more fraud and ends up settling or winning 
the case on the grounds of the latter fraud.

The Rockwell court's interpretation of the public disclosure bar 
might discourage whistleblowers from filing legitimate FCA cases and 
alerting DOJ to fraud. Our legislation would preclude a relator from 
recovery under the public disclosure bar only where the relator derived 
knowledge of all essential elements of the claim from public 
disclosure. Thus, only relators who truly contributed no new 
information to the case would be barred.

Among its other provisions, the False Claims Act Correction Act 
resolves a split among the Federal circuit courts by allowing a 
Government employee to act as a qui tam relator when the employee 
learns of fraudulent conduct on the job, provided that the employee has 
first taken steps to report the fraud internally. Our legislation also 
strengthens the protections in the FCA for whistleblowers, so that 
whistleblowers who are Government contractors and agents can receive 
the same antiretaliation protection as employees of the company 
perpetrating the alleged fraud. Our bill further simplifies the FCA 
statute of limitations with a clear 10-year standard for all cases, and 
also makes technical changes to enhance DOJ's usage of the civil 
investigative demand process in DOJ investigations of potential FCA 
violations.

The changes that our legislation would make to the FCA are narrowly 
tailored, and are designed to clarify the FCA's scope in keeping with 
the intent of the authors of the 1986 FCA amendments. I commend Senator 
Grassley, the Senate architect of the 1986 FCA amendments, for his 
devotion to ensuring the effective functioning of the FCA, and I am 
proud to join him in introducing this legislation to better combat 
waste, fraud, and abuse of Government programs.

In sum, the False Claims Act Correction Act will enhance 
whistleblowers' ability to shine a light on fraudulent conduct 
involving Government funds, and to hold the perpetrators accountable 
through legitimate qui tam claims. The bill's reforms will ensure that 
the FCA can continue to serve as a viable tool for recovering taxpayer 
funds lost to fraud, waste or abuse. The legislation we are introducing 
today will strengthen the legacy of Lincoln's Law, and I am pleased to 
serve as its lead cosponsor. I urge my colleagues to support its 
passage.