---
---

# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--
## `127472098497917e59543952838ceae7`
`Mr. COBURN — 25 May 2010`

---


Mr. COBURN. We now have cloture filed on a $60 billion bill. I don't 
know what the intentions of the majority leader are but the fact is, we 
are going to limit debate. We have been on this bill about a day or a 
day and a half, $60 billion. We are going to cut off debate. We are 
going to attempt to limit amendments and limit the debate. This is a 
debate this country ought to be having. This is an opportunity for us 
to do what the American people want us to do.

So 30 hours from now we will have a vote on cloture on this bill. We 
also have cloture to end debate filed as well. What does that mean? 
That means the American people are not going to get to hear everything 
that is in the bill, No. 1. That means there will be a very limited 
number of amendments that will be actually voted on.



By rule, we are going to close off our responsibility to Madeline. We 
are going to say: Madeline, you don't count. We have to get out of 
here. Don't you know Memorial Day vacation is coming? So we don't want 
to be here. We have codels leaving Saturday morning. That has to be 
more important than saving the Republic so we don't end up like Greece.

We are only about 4 or 5 years behind them. We are only 4 or 5 years 
behind Greece. We are going to see this tremendous money flow come into 
this country because people are worried about Europe. We are going to 
see it come in from Japan because people will be worried about Japan 
being able to pay their debts. We will feel all good and fuzzy for 
about 2 years. After they inflate their currency or debase it or 
default, the money is going to flow right back out. Guess who is going 
to be looking over the abyss. The United States of America. We will be 
at the same point. What is the problem? The problem is their spending 
as a percentage of their GDP creates an environment where they can't 
pay for their debt. That is where we are going to be.

My first degree was in accounting. I had a business career for 9 
years before medical school. I can tell my colleagues, if we truly 
accounted for the liabilities of this government, including Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac--we refuse to recognize their liability--our debt would 
be far in excess of $13 trillion. So what we are going to do is say 
Senators' comfort is much more important than Madeline's future.

Let's talk for a minute about what the word ''indentured'' means. 
That means you are under the control of somebody else. Your ability to 
have free choice becomes limited because you are indentured. Is there 
any wonder why we have trouble bringing hard core sanctions against 
Iran, when the Chinese own $900 billion of our debt and the Russians 
have $800 billion? Our debt affects our foreign policy. Our ability to 
support our military is jeopardized by the very fact that we are making 
a decision today to pay $33 billion for the war effort in Afghanistan 
by not paying for it. We are jeopardizing our long-term future.

The other ironic thing in this bill, this body just passed a 
financial regulatory reform bill, but we created a commission called 
the Financial Inquiry Commission. In this bill we are appropriating on 
an emergency basis $1.8 million for that inquiry commission that is 
going to give us what went wrong and what we need to do about it in 
December. We have already figured out we don't need them; We passed a 
bill without that knowledge, without that look, without that in-depth 
analysis of what went wrong because we had to get it done. Yet we are 
going to continue to fund a Financial Inquiry Commission that we are 
not going to do anything with the results of, and we are going to call 
it an emergency.

How ludicrous is that? The whole purpose of the Financial Inquiry 
Commission was to guide Congress in what to do. We have already ignored 
them. We have already decided what we are going to do. That bill is in 
conference. We are going to pass a financial regulatory reform bill 
ultimately that is devoid of the recommendations of that commission. 
But we are going to do the typical Washington thing. We are going to 
continue to fund the commission, even though we are not going to use 
its results. Why is that?

What does just $1.8 million out of a $60 billion bill, what does that 
mean for her? Multiply that times thousands of times every year, the 
stuff that we are doing that isn't a priority. Nobody can agree it is 
still a priority that we ought to borrow $1.8 million to fund that 
commission. You can't argue that is still a priority because we have 
already made up our minds on financial regulation reform. But that 
happens thousands of times a year, billions and billions and billions 
of dollars.

These two amendments are tough amendments. I am not deceiving myself 
to think that all of a sudden grown-ups are going to show up in the 
Senate. They are not. Let me tell my colleagues what they do. The first 
amendment will reduce our own budget. We gave ourselves a nice stellar 
raise, not salarywise but for our own budgets. We are going to reduce 
that budget for Members of Congress.

We are going to disclose on the Senate Web site the cost of borrowing 
money and how many times we violate our own rules, pay-go. There should 
be nobody who voted for pay-go who votes against that because if it is 
good enough for us to use, it is good enough for the American people to 
see.

We are going to dispose of unneeded and unused Federal Government 
property, whether it is military, whether it is buildings, whether it 
is lands--things we do not use, do not need but we are spending $8 
billion a year taking care of. We can get tremendous savings from that. 
That is what any other right-minded person would do. They would get rid 
of the stuff they are not using so they do not continue to send money 
down a rat hole.

We are going to rescind uncommitted and unspent Federal funds. We 
have hundreds of billions of dollars setting that are not even in the 
pipeline, and we are going to borrow more rather than more efficiently 
use money we have. That is the first amendment; it is $60 billion, 
$60.5 billion.

The second amendment is $59.6 billion. It is a 1-year freeze on 
bonuses and raises and other salary increases for Federal employees. 
They make 45 percent more than everybody else in this country doing 
exactly the same thing, on average. We are going to cap the total 
number of Federal employees. We have added 180,000 Federal employees in 
the last 18 months--180,000.

We are going to collect unpaid taxes from Federal employees. We have 
Federal employees who are working today who owe the Federal Government 
$3 billion. We ought to collect that money. It ought to come out of 
their paychecks. That is undisputed debt; that is not the disputed 
portion. That is the undisputed portion of what they owe the IRS. For 
everything except DOD we are going to ask for a 5-percent efficiency 
gain in administration. Do more with less. Everybody else in this 
country is doing more with less, except the Federal Government. We are 
going to say: No, we cannot do that? Why not? It is interesting, on the 
Debt Commission we had a good discussion with Dave Cote, who is the CEO 
of Honeywell, explaining that every year they do more with less. They 
spend less dollars to get more out. They have less people to produce 
the same amount. It is called efficiency. It is called productivity--
except we will not apply that to our own government employees.

We are going to reduce nonessential government travel. It is billions 
of dollars a year. If we are in a financial pinch--and I would love for 
somebody to debate me that we are not--why would we not limit travel to 
that which is only essential?

We are going to rescind money that Chairman Obey in the House 
recognized on the WIC Program is not being used. We are going to strike 
$68 million in U.N. emergency funding for the next fiscal year. Most of 
the Members of this body voted for an amendment that required 
transparency in the U.N. We give them over $6 billion a year. Twenty-
six percent of the budget for U.N. peacekeeping is ours; we pay for it. 
Yet with an audit of their moneys, half of their moneys--over 60 
percent of it--was found to be fraudulent. So we passed an amendment 
out of the Senate, unanimously, that required transparency from the 
U.N., except when it got to the conference committee it was not there 
anymore.

I will tell you, the American people deserve to know where their 
money is being wasted at the U.N. So we ought to clip that. We ought to 
cut that back. We ought to say: You give us transparency; we will give 
you money. You do not give us transparency; we will not give you money.

We are going to eliminate bonuses for poor contractor performance. Do 
you realize the Federal Government pays bonuses for companies that 
never complete their contracts? Two years ago, the Pentagon paid out $4 
billion in bonuses to contractors who did not meet the standards for 
the bonus, but they paid them anyway. Well, that makes a joke of the 
contracting process. It also makes a joke out of us that we would allow 
that to continue to happen.

So on these two amendments you will have plenty of opportunity with 
which to make a decision on whether you want to be on the side of 
Madeline or on the side of the elitism in Washington--the group that 
does not care what America thinks. We know better. The group that says: 
We are not in an emergency. We are not in a problem. We can continue to 
spend money and not make hard choices.



There is an emergency, and the emergency is our very survival, our 
economic survival, our survival as a republic.

I will close with the following: If you study the Roman Empire or if 
you study the Athenian Empire, you will find common threads among both. 
The No. 1 common thread is they fell after they became indentured in 
their own fiscal policies. They could no longer support their military. 
Their elected bodies refused to make tough choices.

We are sitting here saying: Europe, you have to make tough choices. 
You have to get your spending in line with your productivity. We are 
talking with a hollow ring to our voice because if there is anybody who 
needs to get their spending in priority, it is us. I am not against 
paying for the war. I am not against supporting our troops. I am not 
against the FEMA money we need. I am against us not paying for it, and 
I am very disappointed we have cloture filed this evening because what 
that means is the American people are not going to see how we as 
individual Members vote on tough choices.

I am going to have two tough choices out there. It remains to be seen 
whether we get a chance to vote on them through the majority's ability 
to cut off debate. But we ought to. We ought to do what is the best, 
right thing for the country. We ought to be able to come together and 
agree we should not abuse the emergency designation; that we should not 
abuse pay-go; that, in fact, we should not delay making the hard 
choices because the choices are just going to get harder. They are 
going to get harder every year we do not do this.

Now is the time to start doing it. If we choose not to, then what we 
are saying is: Madeline, as to your future, we are going to steal it 
from you. We are going to steal opportunities for a future like we have 
had. We are going to take those, and we are going to indenture her to 
an economy that does not grow, with opportunities for an education that 
will be limited, including the ability to own her own home. All those 
things will come around.

We only have three ways to get out of the problem we are in. The 
first way is we can default. Everybody says: Oh, no, you cannot say 
that. You cannot talk about that. Well, when Moody's is getting ready 
to downgrade our bonds from AAA, that is the first sign we are moving 
in that direction.

The second thing we can do is have the Federal Reserve inflate our 
way out of it to where that means the life savings of everybody are 
going to be debased, and their purchasing power is going to go away or 
markedly be reduced.

Or we can do the third thing: Not let either of those two bad things 
happen by making hard choices ourselves on what we need to be doing--by 
eliminating the junk, the waste, the duplication, and the fraud in the 
Federal Government. It is there. It is there to the tune of $300 
billion a year.

So when this extender package comes--whether it comes this week or 
next week or the week when we come back--there is plenty of money to 
pay for it, too, if we will just stand and be counted, not as Senators 
but as Americans who would like to see the future bright for their 
Madelines.

With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor.