---
---

# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `127a1010d8bbd8d2e7784cbfbe6eea91`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 11 June 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, the substitute amendment reflects input from, and was 
drafted in coordination with, the ranking members of the Committees on 
Appropriations, on Armed Services, on Homeland Security and 
Intelligence. In so doing, this approach emulated to some degree the 
administration's interagency strategic review.

The substitute recognizes that of all the foreign policy challenges 
facing the United States, stabilizing and reforming Pakistan may be one 
of the most daunting. Given the enormous complexities and the ever-
changing nature of the situation in Pakistan, we believe that it is 
critical at this stage that the administration retain the necessary 
flexibility to craft policies that offer the best chance of 
successfully partnering with the people of Pakistan, with the 
government of Pakistan, and with the military of Pakistan to defeat 
violent extremism.

At the same time, the substitute requires an ongoing policy dialogue 
between the administration and the Congress regarding U.S. policy 
toward Pakistan, as well as robust legislative oversight of our 
strategy, of our implementation plan, as well as allocation and 
expenditure of U.S. assistance.

The Republican substitute requires that not later than 30 days after 
the enactment of the Supplemental Appropriations Act for 2009, the 
President submit to Congress a comprehensive interagency strategy and 
implementation plan for U.S. efforts to eliminate safe havens and help 
toward the long-term security and stability in Pakistan.

Let me repeat that again, Mr. Speaker. Thirty days after enactment of 
the current supplemental under discussion, the President is required to 
produce a comprehensive interagency strategy and implementation plan. 
This is more timely than what is in the underlying bill, and it seeks 
to address immediate as well as evolving dynamics.

The Republican substitute relies on the President's leadership and 
his commitment in providing the strategy and implementation plan to the 
Congress, but does require that plan to include a description of how 
the U.S. assistance will be used in order to achieve our U.S. foreign 
policy objectives.

What does that include? Enhancing stable democratic governments, 
making sure that we have economic growth, developing Pakistani 
counterinsurgency capabilities, success in shutting down safe havens 
for extremists, improving the capacity and capability of Pakistan to 
hold and build areas cleared of insurgents to prevent their return, and 
developing and strengthening mechanisms for Pakistan-Afghanistan 
cooperation, for they cannot be separated.

The substitute also requires that the report include a detailed 
financial plan of the resources, of the programming and of the 
management of U.S. assistance to Pakistan and the criteria used to 
determine their need and value in advancing our U.S. objectives.



This substitute seeks to ensure that congressional oversight and 
notification keeps pace with changing conditions on the ground, and in 
turn, changes in strategy and their implementation.

The Republican substitute also fully funds the administration's 
request for the critically important new Pakistan counterinsurgency 
capability fund.

I reserve the balance of my time.