---
---

# CONGRATULATING THE GEORGIA LOGISTICS COMMAND
## `1282e1707f9081ae3248e015af01199f`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 21 September 2007`

---

 Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, today I congratulate in the Record 
the men and women who serve at the Marine Corps Logistics Command's 
Maintenance Center in Albany, GA, for being selected for the second 
time to receive the Robert T. Mason Depot Maintenance Excellence Award.

The Robert T. Mason Depot Maintenance Excellence Award is named for 
the former Assistant Deputy Secretary of Defense of Maintenance Policy, 
Programs and Resources who was a champion of organic depot maintenance 
for three decades.

In 2005, the Marine Corps Logistics Command's Maintenance Center in 
Albany, GA, was the inaugural winner of this award for Depot 
Maintenance Excellence. That year's recipient was the Design and 
Manufacture Vehicle Armor Protective Kits Program of the Maintenance 
Center in Albany, Georgia, for its support of the Global War on Terror. 
This program provided protective armor kits for U.S. Marine Corps 
combat vehicles, allowing the Marines to be a more effective fight 
force and had a direct impact on their safety and morale.

This year, the award went to the Dedicated Design and Prototype 
Effort Team of the Maintenance Center in Albany, Georgia. They provide 
exceptional and responsive maintenance support by demonstrating the 
ability to be responsive, resourceful, agile and creative by designing 
and prototyping multiple systems in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

I am pleased to acknowledge the great achievement of these men and 
women of the Marine Corps Logistics Command's Maintenance Center who 
provide support for our men and women fighting the global war on 
terror.
