---
---

# TRIBUTE TO U.S. AIR FORCE STAFF SERGEANT ALEJANDRO AYALA
## `128752ba3ecf23706f6a4ffa6f46972a`
`Mr. CALVERT — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a hero from my 
congressional district, U.S. Air Force SSgt Alejandro Ayala. Today, I 
ask that the House of Representatives honor and remember this 
incredible young man who died in service to his country.

Alejandro had a lifelong fascination with the military. He attended 
Arlington High School in Riverside, CA, and joined the Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps. Immediately after his graduation in 1999, 
Alejandro joined the United States Air Force. Alejandro Ayala attended 
basic training at Lackland Air Force Base and then was assigned to 
Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in North Carolina, where he met his wife 
Megan, whom he married in 2003. Alejandro was subsequently assigned to 
the 90th Logistics Readiness Squadron at F.E. Warren Air Force Base in 
Wyoming. On Sunday, November 18, 2007, Alejandro died of injuries he 
received from a vehicle accident in Kuwait while serving with forces 
fighting in Iraq. He was 26 years old.

In reading about Alejandro's life, I was impressed by his devotion to 
family and the military. Alejandro's brother Cesar describes Alejandro 
as his inspiration for joining the U.S. Marine Corps. Alejandro is 
survived by his wife Megan; two young children, Alexandra and Matthew; 
parents Faustino and Ilda; twin sister Liset; sister Angelica; and 
brothers, Cesar and Francisco.

As we look at the incredibly rich military history of our country we 
realize that this history is comprised of men, just like Alejandro, who 
bravely fought for the ideals of freedom and democracy. Each story is 
unique and humbling for those of us who, far from the dangers they have 
faced, live our lives in relative comfort and ease. The day the Ayala 
family had to lay Alejandro to rest was probably the most difficult 
moment the family has ever faced and my thoughts, prayers and deepest 
gratitude for their sacrifice go out to them. There are no words that 
can relieve their pain and what words I offer only begin to convey my 
deep respect and highest appreciation.

Staff Sergeant Ayala's wife, children, mother, father, sisters, 
brothers and all his relatives have given a part of themselves in the 
loss of their loved one. I hope they know that the goodness Alejandro 
brought to the world and the sacrifice he has made will always be 
remembered.
