---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `128c1a6a6cff45203fb3269a0ffd961c`
`Ms. SNOWE — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, as ranking member of the Senate Committee 
on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I rise today, with Senator 
Kerry, to introduce the Military Reservist and Veteran Small Business 
Reauthorization and Opportunity Act of 2007. This bill improves the 
programs and resources available to our Nation's veteran entrepreneurs 
and the small businesses that employ our veterans.

Thank you, Senator Kerry, for working so closely with me on this 
bipartisan legislation and for your long


standing commitment to our Nation's veterans. This bipartisan measure 
contains key provisions from both S. 904, the Veterans Small Business 
Opportunity Act of 2007, which I introduced in March, and Senator 
Kerry's S. 1005, Military Reservist and Veteran Small Business 
Reauthorization Act of 2007. It is truly critical that all of our 
fellow Senators, on both sides of the aisle, continue to collaborate on 
our veterans' behalf and support swift passage of this legislation.

In October 2003, I requested a Congressional Budget Office Report 
entitled ''The Effects of Reserve Call-Ups on Civilian Employers.'' 
That report, issued in May 2005, highlighted the problems that our 
nation's small businesses face when their owners or key employees are 
''called up'' to serve in defense of our Nation. In response to that 
report's findings, I offered two bills to improve the resources and 
programs targeted to these veterans and small businesses. Those bills, 
S. 1014, the Supporting our Patriotic Businesses Act, and S. 3122, the 
Patriot Loan Act of 2006, were the genesis of S. 904 that I introduced 
earlier this year. Similarly, Senator Kerry has an established history 
of working on these issues, and the Small Business Committee on January 
31 held its first hearing of the 110th Congress regarding programs to 
assist veterans and reservists.

In recent years, our Nation's Guard and Reserve forces, which I 
collectively refer to as reservists, have selflessly answered the call 
to duty in both Iraq and Afghanistan. In fact, there have been over 
425,000 reservist deployments, including nearly 3,000 from my home 
State of Maine, to those two countries since September 11, 2001. With 
the majority of nongovernmental reservists either being self-employed 
or working for small businesses, it is easy to see that veteran 
entrepreneurs and small businesses are profoundly and 
disproportionately impacted by these deployments.

As our reservists answer our Nation's call to duty, we must similarly 
fulfill our obligations to help protect their livelihood back home. In 
addition to addressing this responsibility, our legislation includes 
other broad provisions to help our Nation's veteran entrepreneurs 
across the board.

First, our bill makes vast improvements to the Small Business 
Administration's, SBA, Military Reservist Economic Disaster Loan, 
MREIDL, program. The MREIDL program provides funds to businesses to 
meet ordinary and necessary business expenses that they could have 
made, if not for the deployment of a reservist who is one of their 
essential employees.

Specifically, the bill establishes a preapplication process so 
businesses can be prepared, in advance, to apply for an MREIDL and 
includes a provision allowing a businesses up to 1 year, as opposed to 
90 days, to apply. The legislation increases, from $1.5 million to $2 
million, the maximum MREIDL loan a business can take and raises, from 
$5,000 to $50,000, the level of uncollateralized MREIDL loans available 
to businesses. Finally, our changes to the MREIDL program would allow 
the SBA Administrator to defer the payment of principal and interest 
while the employee is deployed.

Second, the measure also includes a national reservist enterprise 
transition and sustainability provision. This provision would allow the 
SBA to award grants to entities that assist businesses with preparing 
and implementing a business strategy to cover the period of time that 
the owner is called-up on active duty through 6 months after that 
owner's date of return.

Third, our bill would create a new Interagency Task Force to 
coordinate the efforts of Federal agencies necessary to increase 
capital and business development opportunities for, and increase the 
award of Federal contracting opportunities to, small businesses owned 
and controlled by veterans. This type of coordinated and targeted 
effort by our Federal Government is long overdue.

Finally, today's legislation would increase funding for the SBA's 
Office of Veterans Business Development, and permanently extend the 
duties and responsibilities of the SBA Advisory Committee on Veterans 
Business Affairs. It would also allow small businesses owned and 
operated by veterans to extend their SBA program participation time 
limitations by the duration of their owner's deployment.

While I have not provided an exhaustive list of this bill's 
provisions and all that it would do, a simple review of the legislation 
will reveal that it goes far toward helping our nation's veteran 
entrepreneurs and our patriotic small businesses that employ 
reservists, despite the risk that deployments entail. Our legislation 
is not a silver bullet, but it is certainly a step in the right 
direction. To that end, I urge my colleagues to join us in support of 
this bill.
