---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `12b1c7615c1af3b1136ebe574c169a18`
`Ms. GIFFORDS — 16 May 2007`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to highlight a very 
important issue facing our Nation that is addressed in this 
legislation, mental health care for our troops. The mental health 
implications of extended and repeated combat tours in Iraq and 
Afghanistan are now only beginning to be understood.

Among Vietnam-era veterans, the lifetime rate of PTSD, sometimes 
taking decades to appear, is 30 percent. According to the VA, the 
current rate for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans is already 20 percent. 
The mental health needs of the generation of combat veterans that we 
are creating will face this country for decades to come.

We must realize that the nature and scope of warfare has changed, 
bringing a new level of stress to combat deployments that is 
fundamentally new. Even in the Green Zone of Baghdad soldiers are 
repeatedly attacked and regularly attacked.

The troops must cope with ongoing severe stress for months to come. 
Experts tell us that extended periods of stress like this, with no way 
to alleviate it, create the conditions where PTSD is most likely to 
develop.

According to a recent report in the New England Journal of Medicine, 
95 percent of troops in Army and Marine units report having been shot 
at during their deployment, and 95 percent report seeing dead bodies, 
89 percent report being ambushed or attacked. One in five is currently 
suffering from depression, anxiety or stress while deployed. Twenty 
percent are now facing marital problems, including divorce or legal 
separation from their spouse. The after-effect of these extended and 
highly stressful combat deployments will continue to affect their 
families, the military and our communities for many, many years to 
come.

I believe that we need to shift towards preventive care. What we know 
from our experience is that PTSD not being treated can start a downward 
tragic cycle of addiction, isolation and despair. This bill improves a 
mental health training for military case managers working with 
outpatient facilities like Walter Reed so they can identify problems 
early.

This way we can help provide treatment before returning servicemen 
are discharged and left to fend for themselves. This bill also creates 
critical new funding to best identify practices. Mental health is 
critical for our troops, and I am very interested in passing this 
legislation.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to highlight a very important issue 
facing this country that is addressed in this legislation: mental 
health care for our troops. The mental health implications of extended, 
and repeated combat tours in Iraq and Afghanistan are now only 
beginning to be understood.

Among Vietnam-era veterans, the lifetime rate of Post-Traumatic 
Stress Disorder, sometimes taking decades to appear, is about 30 
percent. According to the VA, the current rate for Iraq and Afghanistan 
veterans is already 20 percent.



The mental health needs of the generation of combat veterans that we 
are creating will face this country for decades to come. We must 
realize that the nature and scope of warfare has changed, bringing a 
level of stress to combat deployments that is fundamentally new.

Even the Green Zone in Baghdad is attacked regularly, and the lives 
of troops stationed there are literally at risk every single day of 
their deployments. The troops must cope with ongoing, severe stress for 
months on end. Experts tell us that extended periods of stress like 
this, with no way to alleviate it, create the conditions where PTSD is 
most likely to develop.

According to a recent report in the New England Journal of Medicine, 
95 percent of troops in Army and Marine units report having been shot 
at during their deployment, and 95 percent report seeing dead bodies. 
Eighty-nine percent reported being ambushed or attacked.

One in five is suffering from depression, anxiety or stress while 
deployed. Twenty percent face marital problems including divorce or 
legal separation from their spouse.

The after-effect of extended and highly stressful combat deployments 
continues to affect military communities and families long after the 
service member has returned home.

I believe the most important shift is to move toward preventative 
care. What we know from decades of experience is that PTSD, left 
untreated, can begin a tragic downward spiral of addiction, isolation 
and despair.

This bill improves the mental health training for military case 
managers working with outpatients at facilities like Walter Reed, so 
they can identify potential problems early. This way, we can help 
provide treatment before returning servicemen are discharged and left 
to fend for themselves.

It authorizes critical new funding to identify best practices and 
build up our clinical knowledge of PTSD and how best to treat it. And 
it creates a mechanism to improve the transition from the DoD health 
system into the VA system, so that service members will not fall 
through the cracks.

Not every American chooses to wear the uniform and serve this 
country. Not every family stays up lonely nights and waits for a 
father, husband, mother, wife, or child to come home. Not everyone 
hears the call of their country and says 'send me.' But for those who 
do, we owe it to be there for them when they get back.

I will be proud to vote for this legislation that supports our troops 
and brings a new focus on critical mental health issues.