# None
## `12b240207fb4d95a0a77f3dd03f1a959`
`Mr. CARTER — 12 March 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. Thank you so much for being here tonight. Let me tell a 
story about an 82nd airborne soldier. This is an 82nd Airborne soldier 
from my hometown. My son and daughter-in-law are a high school teacher 
and coach, and they knew this young man; we knew his family. He, in the 
invasion of Baghdad, he charged out on a bridge in the open to pull one 
of the fallen, he was a medic in the paratroopers, 19-year-old medic, 
and he charged out on his bridge and pulled one of his fellow 
paratroopers to safety. In the process of going back for others, he 
received a round through his abdomen.

Now, I told this House earlier that this is a joint effort, and Alan 
Babin is a perfect example of the joint effort. He was immediately 
treated on the battlefield by a fellow medic, immediately evacuated and 
flown to the Navy ship offshore, I have forgotten the name of it now, 
to a mercy ship off the shore, where they treated him. From there he 
was flown by the Air Force, air evac medical team to Landstuhl in 
Germany, where he was stabilized and then he was flown to Walter Reed 
Hospital and had hundreds of surgeries, and for 7 months laid with an 
open, exposed abdominal cavity which had to be scrubbed clean every 
day. That boy would have died on any other battlefield, anywhere else 
in the world; but he was an American soldier, given American medical 
care.

Today, he is recovering. While in the process of being treated, Alan 
suffered a stroke. His wounds are healed now, and he is rehabilitating 
himself with help from the Army on the damage that he received from the 
stroke while being treated for his wound.

We expect all of us in Round Rock, Texas, Alan Babin, to be back and 
functioning and doing well and heal completely because his spirits are 
great and he is working hard like every soldier and every Airborne 
trooper would; and he is the pride of Round Rock, Texas. He won the 
Bronze Star with valor for his treatment of his fellow soldiers, fellow 
paratrooper.

Those stories, there are a million of them. We see them every day in 
Landstuhl. I wanted to tell that story, because I want the American 
people to know that is the kind of medical care that our medical 
doctors are giving. This week, when I was at Darnall Hospital in Fort 
Hood, they told me about the fact that we couldn't make it if it wasn't 
for the doctors who were willing to serve in the Reserve.

In this Reserve, we sent 11 doctors downrange to Iraq in our last 
deployment. Someone has to fill in for those 11 doctors back at Fort 
Hood. It is the Army Reserve doctors that come in there and do that and 
the Army Reserve nurses. I visited with a nurse, I believe, from 
Jamaica, New York, who was filling in as a Reserve nurse who had been 
called up, or maybe she was a National Guard nurse.

So not only are the heroes in the war but the heroes in the Reserve 
and the Guard, they are doing a great job. It is abominable that we had 
this condition at Walter Reed. We will address it, we will fix it, but 
let's not take away our doubt that these doctors and nurses and medical 
professionals are doing everything they can to make sure our soldiers 
are getting the best care they can.

My friend Mr. King, Steve King, has joined us. I want to recognize 
him and allow him to say a few things here.