---
---

# INTERNATIONAL TRADE
## `12b62e50ae98a8a458f3d9fedd10a016`
`Mr. DREIER — 29 October 2009`

---


Mr. DREIER. Thank you very much, Madam Speaker.

Let me say, I'm going to be joined by a number of my colleagues this 
evening to talk about an issue which often has a tendency to leave 
people to have their eyes glaze over. It's the issue of international 
trade. I know that we have people who are focused on the World Series. 
I regret the fact that my two Los Angeles teams, the Angels and the 
Dodgers, haven't made it to the World Series. We're all fascinated 
watching the Phillies and the Yankees play. We've got people focused 
on--as my California colleague Mr. Lungren just pointed out--the issue 
of health care. We've got understandable concern about the situation in 
Afghanistan, and our colleague from Illinois just spent time talking 
about the families who had loved ones who paid the ultimate price in 
Afghanistan.

We have a lot of very, very important issues that we are addressing 
here, and it's important to note, as our distinguished Republican whip, 
Mr. Cantor, said in his colloquy with the majority leader, Mr. Hoyer, 
that what we hear at home and what public opinion polls and, most 
recently, the Gallup Poll that came out the day before yesterday have 
shown is that the number one priority right now, the greatest concern 
of the American people happens to be the pressing need to get our 
economy back on track.

The report came out earlier today that the jobless numbers have, in 
fact, not improved. We know that we have an unemployment rate that is 
approaching 10 percent. In my State of California, it's 12.2 percent. 
As I said, today's report that the new jobless claims did not decline 
by the extent that had been thought. We did get positive news on the 
gross domestic product growth over the last 3 months. Annualized, it 
came at 3.5 percent. But I've got to say--and I was talking to one of 
my Democratic colleagues late this afternoon who said, What evidence do 
we have of this economic growth? We all know, as we talk with our 
constituents across this country, that we have very, very serious 
problems when it comes to job creation and economic growth.

Now I began by saying that our goal here this evening is to talk 
about international trade, and the challenge that we have, Madam 
Speaker, is to underscore the direct correlation between job creation, 
economic growth and international trade. Tragically, over the past 
several years, we have had people get it completely backwards. There 
are people who believe that as we pursue international trade 
agreements, that the natural step to follow is job loss in the United 
States. We constantly hear, Well, if we pass a Free Trade Agreement, 
what is it that's going to happen? Oh, we're going to see our jobs 
going to Mexico or to China or to any other country in the world, but 
they're going to flee the United States of America when, in fact, the 
opposite is the case. Why? Well, the reason for that, Madam Speaker, is 
that 95 percent of the world's consumers are outside of the U.S. 
border. They're not here in the United States. The United States is a 
country that has provided the world access to our consumer market. 
Meaning, as we all know, we can buy goods from China that people see 
regularly at Wal-Mart, Kmart, Home Depot, stores across the country. So 
we allow, virtually tariff-free, for goods to come into the United 
States so that the American people can enjoy a standard of living that 
is higher than it would be otherwise, and that's a good thing. It's a 
good thing.

As I said, we want the standard of living in the United States of 
America to improve. One of the things that can help us improve our 
standard of living and create jobs based on every shred of empirical 
evidence that we have is for us to embark on more, not fewer, trade 
agreements. Basically, market-opening opportunities for U.S. workers so 
that manufacturing workers, union members and nonunion members will 
have an opportunity to sell their finished products in countries around 
the world. It's very important for us to embark on those agreements 
because the existence of those agreements--and we have a lot of 
evidence that we're going to talk about this evening that shows that--
the existence of those agreements do, in fact, create jobs right here 
in the United States of America.



In fact, if we think about our goal, the goal that we have of job 
creation and economic growth, there are very few efforts that we have 
that promise more benefits if we move forward on the global trade 
agenda, and there are very few things that threaten our goal of job 
creation and economic growth if we fail to move forward on the trade 
agenda.

So that's why I want this evening to have my colleagues who are 
here--and I will say that a number of my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle--this was to be a bipartisan Special Order this evening--both 
sides of the aisle were hoping to join me. Colleagues like Mr. Meeks, 
Mr. Kind and other Members on the Democratic side and other colleagues 
here because I very much hope, Madam Speaker, that we can get back to 
the bipartisanship that has existed on the trade agenda in the past.

Unfortunately, the Democratic leadership has chosen not to move the 
trade agenda, and I am saddened that President Obama has to this point 
not been able to move the trade agenda forward as it should be because 
I know that he very much wants to see new jobs created in the United 
States, but for I guess a number of reasons that I find hard to 
comprehend, they have failed to move the trade agenda forward.



Again, there are rank-and-file Members on both the Democratic side 
and on the Republican side who feel strongly about the need to do this 
in a number of areas. I want to spend this hour this evening talking 
about those.

I have two very distinguished colleagues who are here--my California 
colleague (Mr. Herger) and the very distinguished gentleman from 
Woodland Hills, Texas (Mr. Brady). I would be happy at this juncture to 
yield to either of the two of you if we could engage in a colloquy and 
discuss some of these issues.

I know that Mr. Herger, who, Madam Speaker, has served with great 
distinction as the chairman of the Trade Subcommittee of the House Ways 
and Means Committee, has been a wonderful leader in this area. I would 
like to yield to him at this juncture.