---
---

# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST--EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
## `12c59e1eea822c6ff638580f4d8c70aa`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 17 June 2009`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the lawsuit said if these photos are 
released, our enemies will use them against our troops. These photos 
will incite additional violence against men and women serving overseas 
and Americans who are in theater. There is nothing new to be learned, 
according to the President. I agree with that. These are more of the 
same. The people involved at Abu Ghraib and other detainee abuse 
allegations have been dealt with. The effect of releasing these photos 
would be empowering our enemies. Every photo would become a bullet or 
an IED. I wish to applaud the President for saying he opposes their 
release.

The status of the lawsuit is that there is a stay on the second 
circuit order that would allow the photos to be released until the 
Supreme Court hears the petition of certiorari filed by the Supreme 
Court.

I have been promised two things that were important to me to remove 
my holds and to let the supplemental go without objection. No. 1, there 
would be a freestanding vote on the Lieberman-Graham amendment, the 
legislative solution to this lawsuit. The Senate has previously allowed 
this legislation to become a part of the supplemental war funding bill. 
It would prevent the disclosure of these photos for a 3-year period. If 
the Secretary of Defense said they were harmful to our national 
security interests, it could be renewed for 3 years. Senator Reid has 
indicated to me that before July 8 we will have a chance to vote on 
that provision as a freestanding bill, which I think will get the 
Senate back on record in a timely fashion before the next court 
hearing.

Secondly, I wanted to be assured by the administration that if the 
Congress fails to do its part to protect these photos from being 
released, the President would sign an Executive order which would 
change their classification to be classified national security 
documents that would be outcome determinative of the lawsuit. Rahm 
Emanuel has indicated to me that the President is committed to not ever 
letting these photos see the light of day, but they agree with me that 
the best way to do it is for Congress to act.

So in light of that, I am going to remove my hold on the bills I have 
a hold on, and I will support the supplemental. Because I think it is 
very important for our soldiers, airmen, sailors, marines--anybody 
deployed--civilian contractors and their families to know there is a 
game plan. We are going to support General Petraeus and General Odierno 
and all our combat commanders to make sure these photos never see the 
light of day. I think we have a game plan that will work. It starts 
with a vote in the Senate. I am urging the House to take this up as a 
freestanding bill. There were 267 House Members who voted to keep our 
language included in the supplemental. It was taken out. I am very 
disappointed that it was taken out, but we now have a chance to start 
over and get this right sooner rather than later.

With that understanding, that we are going to get a freestanding vote 
on the Lieberman-Graham amendment and that the administration will do 
whatever is required to make sure these photos never see the light of 
day if Congress fails to act, I am going to lift my hold on all the 
legislation and support the supplemental. I look forward to taking this 
matter up as soon as possible.

I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1






 America's Top Generals Warn against Photo Release



 declaration of general david h. petraeus, commander of the united 












 states central command



 Endangering the Lives of U.S. Servicemen and Servicewomen



 ''The release of images depicting U.S. servicemen 


 mistreating detainees in Iraq and Afghanistan, or that could 


 be construed as depicting mistreatment, would likely deal a 


 particularly hard blow to USCENTCOM and U.S. interagency 


 counterinsurgency efforts in these three key nations, as well 


 as further endanger the lives of U.S. Soldiers, Marines, 


 Airmen, Sailors, civilians and contractors presently serving 


 there.'' (Declaration of General David H. Petraeus, para. 2, 


 Motion to Recall Mandate, 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals, 


 Docket No. 06-3140-cv)


 Threaten Troops in Afghanistan



 ''Newly released photos depicting, or that could be 


 construed as depicting, abuse of detainees in U.S. military 


 custody in Iraq and Afghanistan would place U.S. servicemen 


 in Afghanistan at heightened risk and corrosively affect U.S. 


 relations with President Karazai's government, as well as 


 further erode control of the Afghanistan government in 


 general.'' (Declaration of General David H. Petraeus, para. 


 12, Motion to Recall Mandate, 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals, 


 Docket No. 06-3140-cv)



 ''An influx of foreign fighters from outside Afghanistan 


 and new recruits from within Afghan could materialize, as the 


 new photos serve as potent recruiting material to attract new 


 members to join the insurgency. . . . Attacks against newly-


 arriving U.S. Marines and soon-to-arrive U.S. Army units in 


 the south, and transitioning U.S. Army units in the east, 


 could increase, thus further endangering the life and 


 physical safety of military personnel in these regions.'' 


 (Declaration of General David H. Petraeus, para. 12, Motion 


 to Recall Mandate, 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals, Docket No. 


 06-3140-cv)



 ''In addition to fueling civil unrest, causing increased 


 targeting of U.S. and Coalition forces, and providing an 


 additional recruiting tool to insurgents and violent 


 extremist groups, the destabilizing effect on our partner 


 nations cannot be underestimated.'' (Declaration of General 


 David H. Petraeus, para. 12, Motion to Recall Mandate, 2nd 


 Circuit Court of Appeals, Docket No. 06-3140-cv)


 Turn Back Progress in Iraq and Incite Violence



 ''Newly released photos depicting abuse, or that could be 


 construed as depicting abuse, of Iraqis in U.S. military 


 custody would inflame emotions across Iraq and trigger the 


 same motivations that prompted many young men to respond to 


 calls for jihad following the Abu Ghraib photo release. After 


 the Abu Ghraib photos were publicized in 2004, there was a 


 significant response to the call for jihad, with new 


 extremists committing themselves to violence against U.S. 


 forces. Al-Qaeda in Iraq (AQI) and Sunni insurgents groups 


 in Iraq will likely use any release of detainee abuse 


 images for propaganda purposes, and possibly as an 


 opportunity to widen the call for jihad against U.S. 


 forces, which could result in a near-term increase in 


 recruiting and attacks.'' (Declaration of General David H. 


 Petraeus, para. 7, Motion to Recall Mandate, 2nd Circuit 


 Court of Appeals, Docket No. 06-3140-cv)


 Help Destabilize Pakistan



 ''Newly released photos depicting abuse of detainees in 


 U.S. military custody in Afghanistan and Iraq would 


 negatively affect the on-going efforts by Pakistan to counter 


 its internal extremist threat.'' (Declaration of General 


 David H. Petraeus, para. 8, Motion to Recall Mandate, 2nd 


 Circuit Court of Appeals, Docket No. 06-3140-cv)


declaration of general raymond t. odierno, commander of multi-national 













force--iraq (MNF-I)



 Release of Photos will Result in Harm to U.S. Soldiers



 ''The 2004 publication of detainee photos resulted in a 


 number of posting on internet websites. Perhaps the most 


 gruesome of internet reactions to the photo publication was a 


 video posted in May 2004 showing the decapitation murder of 


 U.S. contractor Nicholas Berg. A man believed to be Zarqawi 


 specifically made the linkage between the abuses at Abu 


 Ghraib and Berg's murder saying, And how does a free Muslim 


 sleep comfortably watching Islam being slaughtered and [its] 


 dignity being drained. The shameful photos are evil 


 humiliation for Muslim men and women in the Abu Ghraib 


 prison. . . . We tell you that the dignity of the Muslims at 


 the Abu Ghraib prison is worth the sacrifice of blood and 


 souls. We will send you coffin




 after coffin and box after box slaughtered this way.'' 


 (Declaration of General Raymond T. Odierno, para. 8, 9, 


 Motion to Recall Mandate, 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals, 


 Docket No. 06-3140-cv)



 ''I strongly believe the release of these photos will 


 endanger the lives of U.S. Soldiers, Airmen, Marines, Sailors 


 and civilians as well as the lives of our Iraqi partners. 


 Certain operating units are at particular risk of harm from 


 release of the photos. One example is our training teams 


 throughout Iraq. These are small elements of between 15 and 


 30 individuals who live on Iraqi-controlled installations and 


 thus do not have the same protections afforded to many of our 


 service members. In addition, as they assist our Iraqi 


 partners, members of such teams are regularly engaged in 


 small-unit patrols, making them more vulnerable to insurgent 


 attacks or other violence directed at U.S. forces. 


 Accordingly, there is good reason to conclude that the 


 soldiers in those teams and in similarly situated units would 


 face a particularly serious risk to their lives and physical 


 safety.'' (Declaration of General Raymond T. Odierno, 4, 


 Motion to Recall Mandate, 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals, 


 Docket No. 06-3140-cv)



 ''MNF-1 will likely experience an increase in security 


 incidents particularly aimed at U.S. personnel and facilities 


 following the release of the photos. Incidents of spontaneous 


 violence against U.S. forces, possibly including attacks from 


 outraged Iraqi police or army members are likely. Such 


 increased attacks will put U.S. forces, civilians, and Iraqi 


 partners at risk of being killed, injured, or kidnapped. The 


 photos will likely be used as a justification for adversaries 


 conducting retribution attacks against the U.S. for bringing 


 shame on Iraq.'' Declaration of General Raymond T. Odierno, 


 para. 11, Motion to Recall Mandate, 2nd Circuit Court of 


 Appeals, Docket No. 06-3140-cv)


 Release of 2004 Photos Resulted in Successful Attacks Against 




 U.S. Forces



 ''The public dissemination of detainee abuse photos in 2004 


 likely contributed to a spike in violence in Iraq during the 


 third quarter of 2004 as foreign fighters and domestic 


 insurgents were drawn to Iraq to train and fight. Attacks on 


 C[oalition] F[orces] increased from around 700 in March 2004 


 to 1800 in May (after the photographs were broadcast and 


 published) and 2800 in August 2004. Attacks on C[oalition] 


 F[orces] did not subside to March 2004 levels until June 


 2008. These increased attacks resulted in the death of 


 Coalition Forces, Iraqi forces, and civilians.'' (Declaration 


 of General Raymond T. Odierno, Motion to Recall Mandate, 


 para. 7, 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals, Docket No. 06-3140-cv)


 Increase Recruitment for Extremist Organizations and Incite 




 Attacks

''I believe these images will be used to inflame outrage against the 
U.S. and be used by terrorist organizations to recruit new members. The 
release of the photos will likely incite Muslim idealists to join the 
cause to seek retribution for the dishonor they may perceive to have 
been brought against all Muslims by the U.S. inside Iraq, the publicity 
over the images could incite additional attacks on U.S. personnel by 
members of the Iraq Security Forces.'' (Declaration of General Raymond 
T. Odierno, Motion to Recall Mandate, para. 16, 2nd Circuit Court of 
Appeals, Docket No. 06-3140-cv)
