# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `12d23a480d79065303c562a49634f8e5`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of overriding the 
President's misguided veto of H.R. 1591, U.S. Troop Readiness, 
Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act. We need a new direction 
in Iraq.

This legislation contains every penny the President has requested for 
our troops in Iraq and adds $4 billion more. The bill includes 
additional funding for military health care and military housing and 
provides $1.8 billion not requested by the President to begin meeting 
the unmet health care needs of veterans returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

As the Representative for Fort Bragg, I strongly support our troops, 
their families and their communities. Our superb military men and women 
have done everything that has been asked of them and done it well. 
America's military victory in Iraq was achieved when Saddam Hussein's 
regime was toppled. But the Administration went to war without a plan 
to win the peace, and our military victory has been bogged down in a 
mindless occupation led by bitterly stubborn politicians here at home.

Just last month, Vice President Cheney insisted that Saddam Hussein 
had been allied with Osama bin Laden's terrorist network despite all 
evidence to the contrary. Last night, the President vetoed this 
legislation in favor of his failed strategy of stay the course. The 
leadership of this Administration continues to be in a state of denial, 
and Congress must assert its rightful role in our nation's 
policymaking. I will vote to override this veto for a new direction in 
Iraq, and I urge my colleagues to join me in doing so.