---
---

# THE ACCOUNTABILITY CONGRESS: THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `12e40cdbb3cd1f44f966838bc3c72b90`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Thanks, Congressman. I 
appreciate it. Thank you to the gentleman from Minnesota, and to the 
gentleman from Connecticut, my colleague, the other Congressman Murphy 
up there.

Today is an important day in our country's history. We are the new 
Congress, the 110th Congress, and we came together from all over the 
country to really change the direction of our country.

I am so proud that I wore the Army uniform for the first time in 
1993, following in the footsteps of my father and my uncle and my 
grandfather and my brother, who serves in the Air Force, that we served 
with pride and gave it our best.

When I was asked to join the faculty at West Point, when I taught 
there, we took pride in ourselves in saying we are developing leaders 
of character for a lifetime of service. Yes, we were making military 
officers. Yes, they were tacticians on the law and the profession of 
arms, but they were leaders of character. They stood up for the truth. 
They stood up for justice.

When our Nation was attacked on 9/11 of 2001, many of us who were 
called to serve deployed for our country. And I am proud that I 
deployed twice, first to Bosnia and then to Baghdad, Iraq, as a member 
of the 82nd Airborne Division.

So, within the first 100 days of this Congress, as you mentioned, 
when we took the steps to say we are going to be coequal branches of 
government, you see, when I was at West Point, I taught constitutional 
law and I taught about what this country was all about, and it was that 
we have three coequal branches of government.

See, we did not believe in the theory of King George, one person 
being infallible, running a country. That is why we had the American 
Revolution. Our democracy evolved over 200 years to now, today, where 
we have leaders from both parties willing to stand up and say, enough 
is enough. Mr. President, we will not continue to give you a blank 
check while the Iraqis still sit on the sidelines. We will not sit 
there and say everything is okay when we understand what the truth is 
on the ground in Iraq.

When I was there in 2003, I remember when it was August. I remember 
having the combat gear on. I remember riding up and down in what is 
called Ambush Alley in 138-degree heat and wondering when that next 
roadside bomb might go off, scouting it out, looking, always being 
vigilant to make sure the men I was leading down that path were safe.

Now, what this 110th Congress has stood up to do and why I am so 
proud of the freshman class for doing is, when we had the emergency 
supplemental, the Iraq supplemental, we said, we will give you, Mr. 
President, every single dime, every single penny that you ask for to 
support the troops, but there is a policy attached.

No longer is there an open-ended commitment. No longer is there 
unaccountability. This is a different Congress. This is the 110th 
Congress. This is a Congress that will stand strong, stand together, 
even though we know the political attacks are going to come, even 
though we know it takes personal courage, and even though they are 
going to try and distort what we are actually going to try to do. And 
what we are trying to do is to hold the Iraqi people accountable, now, 
over 4 years later.

At 6:12 a.m. this morning, I got an e-mail from Iraq. It was from a 
former cadet that I got to know who lost his brother on 9/11. He said 
to me, Sir, this is the first time I have ever written you, but he 
said, I want you to know there are legions, legions of junior officers, 
now company commanders, in Iraq and in Afghanistan and all over this 
country that are watching you, that are watching this 110th Congress, 
and that you are saying thank God someone is standing up and speaking 
truth to power. He said, I would never think that 5 years after my 
brother was murdered at the World Trade Center on 9/11/2001 that I 
would stand up against the foreign policy of the United States of 
America when it comes to Iraq. I want you to know that I am keeping you 
in my prayers, and if there is anything, anything I can do to help your 
cause, to put our country back on the right track, I am there.

That is what is happening with all these Congresspersons here in 
Washington.

When I get letters from people in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, or 
northeast Philadelphia, and they say, thank God we have a Congressman 
that is going to stand up for us, for our veterans, thank God that they 
are speaking truth to power, that is what is going on. There is a 
movement, and it is a movement again to believe in America, a movement 
again to say, listen, we understand there are coequal branches of the 
government. We understand what the Congress is trying to do. We 
understand they are trying to do what is right.

And it is not about partisan politics. It is not about Bush 
Republicans versus Democrats. It is not about that.

I joke. My wife Jenni is at home. I just talked to her on the phone. 
My 4-month-old Maggie just laughed for the first time today. It puts it 
all in perspective.

But my wife was a lifelong Republican. She still considers herself a 
Republican. She said to me when we first met, and she gave me a hard 
time for being a Democrat, she said, you know, Patrick, I will support 
you, and I will support you for one reason and one reason only, besides 
the fact that I am in love with you. She said, I was a YAFer. That is 
called a Young American for Freedom; it is a conservative wing of the 
Republican Party. She said, the Republican Party left me; I did not 
leave the Republican Party.


So when I talk about what we have done, what we have accomplished in 
the supplemental bill against all odds, because we remember, we were 
through this when we were voting for this, we understood when they 
said, why are you wasting your time trying to pass this emergency 
supplemental, putting a timeline on Iraq? Why would you do that? You 
know it is not going to pass.

I was there and talking to the press, and I said, I will give every 
cent, every fiber of my being, to talk to my colleagues together, all 
of us as one, and say how important it is to pass this.

Then when we passed it against all the odds, when they told us it 
wasn't going to happen, and we passed it, then they said, well, why did 
you do that? The Senate is never going to pass it. The Senate responded 
and the Senate took our bill, and now it is in conference and they 
passed it, also a supplemental bill with a timeline.

That is why it is so important that all of us do not lose hope, all 
of us continue to stand up and speak truth to power, all of us stand up 
and say, no longer are we just going to have an open-ended commitment 
in Iraq.

Because when you look at the full spectrum, some people say, bring 
all the troops home tomorrow; we don't care, just bring them all home 
tomorrow. Others say, it is the President, he is infallible; you can't 
ask any tough questions, you can't give him a timeline. You can't 
demand accountability from the Iraqis, who are still sitting on the 
sidelines 4 years later.

But this 110th Congress, made up of all races, of all sexes, of all 
parties,


came together and we said, this is a moderate approach, this is an 
approach that will change the direction in Iraq. When we look at how 
almost every day hundreds of people are dying there, and we said to the 
Iraqi people that we will support you, but we will not sit idly by. We 
will not stand idly by and watch you continue to sit on the sidelines, 
when our troops, our men and women who wear the military uniform of our 
country, continue to lead the efforts there when, now, it is 4 years 
later and it is imperative that they stand up for their country.

Because if we remember when it was the American Revolution, it was 
America's revolution; it was the Americans standing up. When it was the 
American Civil War, it was the Americans fighting each other.

So that is why all of us in good conscience cannot stand here while 
our brave young men and women serve in places like Iraq and referee a 
religious civil war. That is not what they were supposed to do. That is 
not in the national interests of the United States of America. That 
will not keep our families safe.

When we all vote, when we all take these so important and these 
crucial votes and these timely votes and these historic votes, when we 
vote for our families and for our constituents, we think about how is 
it going to affect our children and our children's children. How is it 
going to affect my daughter, Maggie Murphy, when she reads in the 
history books what we have done? How is it going to affect who we call 
Joe, that GI Joe, that soldier on the ground in the 138-degree heat in 
Baghdad, those members of the 82nd Airborne Division that I so proudly 
served with that are now back over there on their third deployment?

When I was there weeks ago, and I know some of my colleagues here 
were also just recently there, I talked to these guys. I talked to the 
guys I served with. I talked to the guys, Sergeant Juan Santiago, who 
left his wife and two kids at home, is now in his third deployment in 
Iraq. I broke bread with him over there.

I said to him when I was in Baghdad, he used to be Private Santiago, 
now he is Sergeant Santiago, and his nickname is Santi. I had lunch 
with him. I said, ''Santi, what is going on?'' And he said, ''Sir, it 
is like Groundhog Day, but 4 years later. They are still sitting on the 
sidelines. We are still doing everything for them. I don't know what it 
is going to take to get them to come off the sidelines.''

What it is going to take is the political pressure so we are clear 
and we act as one; that we tell the Iraqis that the 110th Congress is 
different; that the spirit of America is there and we love you, but we 
cannot hold your hand. You need to stand up finally for your country. 
You need to stand up and secure your neighborhoods, secure your street 
corners. You need to be the ones that are leading those convoys up and 
down Ambush Ally, not our troops.

That is exactly what our supplemental did and what we will do when we 
vote on it after it comes back from conference in just a few days.

With that, I would now take it back probably to the gentleman from 
Minnesota, Mr. Ellison. Thank you.