---
---

# None
## `12e6c9a4d41bea305163b386f1261853`
`Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida — 24 January 2007`

---


Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida. You know, we had a closed-door briefing 
yesterday, and the important point that I made is that every Member, 
all 435 Members of this House of Representatives have the 
responsibility for the security of this country. And I think we have 
more of a responsibility than just to give this President a blank 
check. And I think we owe it to this country to make sure we get more 
of some kind of response other than we are just expanding, and not 
really deal with us in a very constructive way.

The second point, and I have just got two quick points, and I have a 
plane to catch. On the area of health care, the President talked about 
health care, and I am one Member that would vote for it. I believe we 
should have universal health care. But you have to, always dealing with 
this administration, it is always in the details. Now he is talking 
about taking money from public hospitals. And when we say public 
hospitals, you have got one, I have got Shands, but you have got 
Jackson Memorial. Taking money from public hospitals, that is 
unacceptable. That is the only safety net that we have. And so that is 
one proposal that shouldn't arrive here, but when it does, it should be 
dead on arrival.

And the last point, I was disappointed, and I guess everybody in the 
gulf region was disappointed, there was no discussion about the gulf 
region, none whatsoever. Nothing about Katrina. Now, the American 
people, they saw something with Katrina that they didn't like. Not only 
did they see a government that was inept, uncaring, but incompetent, 
and yet nothing.

I talked to an 82-year-old lady on Thursday who 3 months before 
Katrina, she paid off her house. Paid off her house 3 months before 
Katrina. To this day she is homeless and hasen't received a penny from 
all of the dollars that we have appropriated. Now, we have a 
responsibility to this lady just like we do, we are insisting, that we 
put almost $500 billion in Iraq and said that, oh, they don't have to 
pay it back. But every dime that we put into New Orleans, we are going 
to say they have got to pay it back. I am sure it doesn't have anything 
to do that they are people of color.

But I have got to say we have got our challenges. I want to thank all 
of you 30-something-plus for your leadership on the floor and keeping 
these issues before the American people.