---
---

# AFFIRMING SUPPORT FOR A STRONG ALLIANCE WITH THAILAND
## `12e71c56977999207dd3e30d1aa5d6ce`
`Mr. MANZULLO — 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. MANZULLO. Mr. Speaker, as the senior Republican on the Asia 
Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and as the co-chair 
of the Friends of Thailand Caucus, I rise in favor of H. Res. 1321, 
which expresses support for resolving the political situation in 
Thailand through non-violent, democratic means. The relationship 
between the United States and Thailand goes back over 175 years to when 
the U.S. signed its first agreement with an Asian nation as part of the 
Treaty of Amity and Commerce with Siam. Thailand is one of America's 
closest friends and dependable ally. In fact, the King of Thailand 
generously offered President Abraham Lincoln a supply of elephants to 
help Union forces win the Civil War. Thailand has also contributed 
troops and supplies for U.S. military engagements in Korea, Vietnam, 
the Persian Gulf, Afghanistan, and Iraq for which we are forever 
grateful. After several decades of mostly military dictatorships, by 
the early 1990s, Thailand established democratic rule, furthering 
bolstering its status as a partner of the United States. As a result, 
in 2003, the U.S. designated Thailand as a major non-NATO ally. 
Thailand has also grown to be a significant trading partner of the 
United States. In fact, exports from Illinois to Thailand were one of 
the few bright spots during this recession--increasing 8.1 percent 
between 2008 and 2009. Thailand is one of the top 25 export markets for 
Illinois products. I was pleased and honored when the Ambassador from 
Thailand came to visit northern Illinois last April to learn more about 
what America has to offer.

However, ever since 2006, the political situation inside Thailand has 
been a state of turmoil. We have all been pained to see the media 
images of violence and burned-out buildings. Obviously, only the Thai 
people can resolve their own internal conflicts. I hope that this 
resolution can play a constructive role in helping to encourage all 
sides to resolve their differences peacefully. I trust that the 5-point 
national reconciliation plan proposed by the Prime Minister of Thailand 
and highlighted by this resolution is fully implemented.

This resolution is important to reaffirm our support for democracy, 
non-violence, and the people of Thailand. I urge the government of 
Thailand to follow through on its commitments as outlined in their 5-
point plan. I also urge all parties in Thailand to join in this effort 
and settle their differences peacefully. Therefore, I encourage my 
colleagues to vote in favor of H. Res. 1321.