---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `12f448694a36254a07dfd5d7b04f5bb1`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, the Senator from New Mexico, Mr. 
Bingaman, has been tireless in helping to create the America COMPETES 
Act, which passed unanimously here. But even more important than that, 
he did not walk away from it once it became law. He has attended to the 
details of trying to make sure we implement it. One of those details is 
what we are doing today.



I wish to, in support of what he has said so eloquently--and I also 
commend Senator Domenici from New Mexico, who has had such a key role 
in this effort--I wish to tell a story that helps put in perspective 
what we are talking about.

Two years ago, a group of Senators traveled to China, led by Senator 
Stevens and Senator Inouye. We were received very well because Senator 
Stevens had flown with the Flying Tigers. He flew the first plane to 
land in Beijing after World War II, and the top Chinese leaders had not 
forgotten. And, of course, Senator Inouye is a Congressional Medal of 
Honor winner for his heroic service to our country in World War II.

So we saw President Hu, and the No. 2 man in China, Mr. Wu. What 
struck me about those two meetings--which were about an hour long, and 
during which we could have talked about Taiwan or Iraq or Iran or 
China's military buildup or America's intelligence system--the subject 
about which they wanted to talk the most and which animated them the 
most in their conversation was the subject Senator Bingaman just 
discussed: how China can use its brainpower to create a higher standard 
of living for the people of China.

We are in an economic slowdown in America today, and we are debating 
and talking here about how we restore our level of progress 
economically. We are talking not only about the Federal budget, we are 
talking about the family budget. We are talking about family incomes. 
We are talking about jobs. That was the same subject the No. 1 and No. 
2 men in China wanted to talk about as well. What were they focusing 
on? The fact of trying to give to China the same kind of brainpower 
advantage in creating a high standard of living we have had in America, 
since World War II especially. This year, despite the economic 
slowdown, the United States of America will create about 30 percent of 
all the world's wealth for 5 percent of the world's people, who are 
those of us who live in the United States. That is an astonishing fact. 
There are many reasons for it, including our free market system, our 
geography, our character, the immigration that has brought talented 
people from all over the world who are entrepreneurial in their 
spirit. But most people agree that the major fact in the high standard 
of living for this country since World War II has been our brainpower 
advantage. We have not only some of the best universities in the world, 
we have almost all of them. We have a set of national laboratories that 
is unequaled in the world. Until recently, at least, our system of 
kindergarten through the 12th grade education has been the envy of the 
world. As a result of all that brainpower, we have created a lot of 
jobs and a high standard of living. Increasingly, that is where the new 
jobs come from. That is why we like to have foreign students come here, 
because they become educated in our universities and we are, in effect, 
insourcing brainpower, so they create Google in the United States of 
America rather than in India or in China, and the jobs are here in the 
United States of America.


So the America COMPETES Act, to which Senator Bingaman referred, had 
broad support here. It is the only legislation we have had in the last 
4 years that I remember was supported by Senator Frist and Senator 
Reid. Then, when the Senate changed hands and the Democrats were in the 
majority, it was sponsored by Senator Reid and Senator McConnell. At 
one point, it had 70 Members of the Senate backing it, 35 Senators who 
are Democrats and 35 Republicans. It all came from a request that 
Senator Bingaman and I and others--including House Member Bart Gordon 
of Tennessee, the chairman of the Science Committee now--made of the 
National Academy of Sciences: Please tell us, in priority order, what 
are the 10 things we in Congress ought to do to help keep our 
brainpower advantage so our jobs will not go overseas. Norm Augustine, 
the former chairman of Lockheed Martin, a member of the National 
Academy of Engineering, assembled a group of Nobel laureates, 
university presidents, and others, and they came back with 20 specific 
recommendations in the Augustine report. There was also other important 
work being done by the Council on Competitiveness. We put all that 
together over 2 years. The President weighed in, in a big way, in two 
straight State of the Union Addresses and budgets. The Speaker of the 
House also weighed in, in an important way. So in this endeavor, on 
this important issue, we are all on the same team. But what we are 
doing today with this amendment is making sure we get where we have 
agreed we want to go.

Now, for President Hu in China, all he had to do was walk over to 
their National Academy of Sciences in China, he convened them all in 
the Great Hall--and said: This is what we will do over the next 10 
years. We are going to increase support for our universities and 
research through a percent of our domestic product. We are going to 
recruit from American universities talented Chinese professors who have 
distinguished themselves in the United States and they are going to 
come back and help improve Chinese universities. So, in China, the top 
man gave the order and they are on their way. Here, a lot more of us 
have to be involved, but we are all involved. The President has said we 
need an 18-percent increase for Fiscal Year 2009 to stay on a track to 
double funding for the physical sciences over the next 10 years; 18 
percent for the Office of Science, which is our principal funder of our 
national laboratories and science programs, and 13 percent in the 
National Science Foundation. That is bigger than it normally would be 
because of the way the appropriations process worked last year. We 
didn't do what we all agreed we wanted to be able to do.

So the Budget Committee did a pretty good job in reporting to the 
floor a budget resolution with sufficient provisions to fund this 
year's version of the America COMPETES Act. There are a wide range of 
those programs. There are opportunities for low-income children to take 
advanced placement courses which they now can't afford and to train the 
teachers who need to be trained to teach those courses. There are 
opportunities for summer academies at our laboratories and at 
universities to interest our students in math and sciences. The 
Augustine Commission reviewed programs all over America and recommended 
only a handful that ought to be emulated, and they included programs 
such as the UTeach program in Texas at the University of Texas which 
attracts outstanding students in chemistry and physics, for example, 
and gives them scholarships if they will agree to become teachers of 
chemistry and physics.

Former Gov. Jim Hunt of North Carolina told me the University of 
North Carolina only graduated one physics teacher in one recent year. 
We are not going to learn much physics in America, to keep up with the 
Chinese and Indians and Irish and all the others who are trying to 
increase their brainpower to increase their jobs if we don't graduate 
physics teachers. So the Budget Committee did a good and important job.

What we are trying to do is to get back on track to double funding 
for the physical sciences over 10 years, which is what we all agreed we 
should try to do. That was our goal. A huge majority in the House, the 
Senate, and the President himself, we are asking that the Senate make 
room in the budget for the President's number for the America COMPETES 
Act. That is what this amendment does.

So I feel confident we will have substantial support, because so many 
of us worked so hard for so long on this idea.

We Republicans are talking these days in unflattering ways about the 
Democratic budget. Senator Reid, the majority leader, said he hadn't 
heard about tort reform yet. Well, he will, before we are through. One 
way to help the family budget is to make it easier for pregnant women 
in rural areas to get medical care without driving 60 miles, and one 
way to do that is to put some limits on medical malpractice suits. That 
is tort reform. That will help the family budget. Lower taxes help the 
family budget. Lower energy costs help the family budget. But on this 
side of the aisle, we also believe that better schools and investments 
in science and technology, so we can keep our brainpower advantage and 
keep our jobs from going overseas, is an important part of a pro-growth 
plan.


When I was Governor of Tennessee, Tennessee's taxes were the lowest 
in the country. I say this with great respect to the Senator from New 
Hampshire, who is also here. I double


checked this fact when I came in. But we were the third poorest State. 
So we kept our taxes low, but we also had to enact some other pro-
growth policies, which included getting rid of a usury limit, 
preserving the right to work law, reducing the number of employees in 
government, but it also included building highways. Eventually, I came 
to the conclusion that the single most important thing we could do to 
improve family incomes in our State was to focus on improving the 
quality of schools, colleges, universities, and research, so we began 
to pay teachers more for teaching well. We created chairs of excellence 
at the universities and centers of excellence at the universities. I 
believe that partly because of all those things together, our State 
began to increase its family incomes at a rate that was faster than any 
other part of our--any other State in the country during the 1980s. It 
was no coincidence we were also increasing funding for our education 
during that time at a rate faster than any other State.

So an important part of a pro-growth plan--a Republican pro-growth 
plan, but obviously many Democrats agree with this as well--is fully 
funding the America COMPETES Act, making sure we keep our brainpower 
advantage so we can keep our jobs.

I congratulate the Senator from New Mexico, Mr. Bingaman, for his 
leadership on this, and the senior Senator from New Mexico, Mr. 
Domenici, for his leadership on this. I thank the majority leader and 
the Republican leader for their co-sponsorship of this act.

I say to Senators Conrad and Gregg, I am glad you made room in the 
budget for much of the America COMPETES Act. I hope we can complete the 
job with the Bingaman amendment so we can keep those jobs from going 
overseas. That is one good way to help advance a pro-growth plan that 
will help balance the family budget.

I thank the President, and I yield the floor.