---
---

# EDUCATION JOBS AND MEDICAID ASSISTANCE ACT
## `130030d62ada41f7c1c8ab7ab2ba8144`
`Mr. McKEON — 10 August 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Today I rise in opposition to this measure, which will increase 
domestic spending at the expense of national security. Specifically, 
the Federal Government will spend $10 billion for this teacher bailout, 
paid in part with a $3.3 billion cut in defense programs. As the 
ranking member of the House Armed Services Committee, I can assure you 
that the Department of Defense has need of these funds, including 
unfunded requirements related to our operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. I say this fully aware of the needs of our educational 
system as the former chairman and ranking member of Education and 
Labor.

Those in favor of this bill will say that this money was previously 
identified by the Department of Defense as unspent and available for 
higher priorities, but this arguments misses two larger points.

First, as yesterday's Military Times observed, diverting money from 
the defense budget to education programs would eliminate any 
opportunity for the Defense Department or Congress to take unobligated 
money from one defense program to spend on another defense program.

Second, rescissions to the defense budget this late in the fiscal 
year are problematic and disruptive to operations. As the Department of 
Defense Comptroller has told the Armed Services Committee, this 
rescission will require that Defense restructure or postpone programs, 
and in some cases the money is no longer available in these accounts.

Finally, I remain concerned that this is the beginning of a slippery 
slope. The Secretary of Defense has initiated an ongoing effort to 
generate $100 billion in savings within the Department of Defense over 
the next 5 years, the only secretary that has been asked to do this. My 
ultimate concern is these savings will not be reinvested into America's 
defense requirements, but will be harvested by congressional Democrats 
for new domestic spending and entitlement programs.

We see today that this is already happening. Congressional Democrats, 
with the full support of the White House, are taking critical defense 
funding to pay for another State bailout.

Madam Speaker, today I rise in opposition to this measure, which will 
increase domestic spending at the expense of national security. 
Specifically, the Federal Government will spend $10 billion for this 
teacher bailout, paid for in part with a $3.3 billion cut in defense 
programs. As the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, 
I can assure you that the Department of Defense has need for these 
funds, including unfunded requirements related to our operations in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. I say this fully aware of the needs of our 
educational system, as the former Chairman and Ranking Member of 
Education and Labor.

Those in favor of this bill will say that this money was previously 
identified by the Department of Defense as unspent and available for 
higher priorities. This includes $683.5 million unspent from last 
year's economic stimulus package and $325 million for military 
construction projects. They will use this argument to convince members 
that these cuts will not harm the Department and to assure you that 
this next bailout is fully paid for.

But this argument misses two larger points. First, as yesterday's 
Military Times observed, ''. . . diverting money from the defense 
budget to education programs would eliminate any opportunity for the 
Defense Department or Congress to take unobligated money from one 
defense program to spend on another defense program.'' For example, in 
the Fiscal Year 2011 National Defense Authorization Act, we used the 
unobligated balances for military construction projects to fund other 
more pressing infrastructure needs, such as barracks and armories, and 
many of the services' unfunded requirements. Now these funds will no 
longer be available for these purposes and the services will have 
outstanding needs go unmet.

Second, rescissions to the DoD budget this late in the fiscal year 
are problematic and disruptive to operations. As the Department of 
Defense Comptroller has told the Armed Services Committee, this 
rescission will require that DoD restructure or postpone programs. I am 
confident the Department will try to avoid adverse effects on the wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, but when this nation is fighting two wars, 
Congress should not be pulling the financial rug out from under DoD at 
the end of the year.

Moreover, while these funds were identified as ''unspent'' earlier 
this year, some of these ''unspent'' dollars have already been diverted 
to other defense programs. When we cut the original accounts now, it 
will mean that some of these accounts no longer have enough money in 
them. Think about your own checking account--at the beginning of the 
year, you see that you have $1000 more than your budget says you'll 
need. So you move $800 into another account or give it to one of your 
children. If the government comes and takes $1000 from you at the end 
of the year, your remaining account balance may not be sufficient and 
you find yourself in an overdraft situation. In the case of government 
agencies it is against the law to overdraft an account. We have been 
told that the Department of Defense may find itself in violation of the 
Antideficiency Act in some accounts.


Finally, I remain concerned that this is the beginning of a slippery 
slope. The Secretary of Defense has initiated an ongoing effort to 
generate $100 billion in savings within the Department of Defense over 
the next five years. Yesterday he announced a series of spending 
freezes and closures of organizations within his office and combatant 
commands. Secretary Gates plans on plowing these savings back into 
force structure and modernization accounts. As elected officials, 
Members of Congress have a responsibility to ensure U.S. taxpayer 
dollars are not wasted on inefficient, wasteful or redundant programs. 
All of us support efforts to identify and curb such programs. Yet, as 
Members of the House Armed Services Committee, we are also tasked with 
the unique responsibility of providing for America's national defense 
and meeting the needs of our military services, which is why we will 
need to receive more information from the Department of Defense so we 
fully understand the rationale behind each decision and potential 
impact of every cut.

My ultimate concern is that these savings will not be reinvested into 
America's defense requirements, but will be harvested by Congressional 
Democrats for new domestic spending and entitlement programs. We see 
today that this is already happening. Congressional Democrats--with the 
full support of the White House--are taking critical defense funding to 
pay for another state bailout. What's to stop them from taking this 
money, too?

At his press conference yesterday Secretary Gates stated, ''. . . my 
greatest fear is that in economic tough times that people will see the 
defense budget as the place to solve the Nation's deficit problems, to 
find money for other parts of the government . . . And as I look around 
the world and see . . . more failed and failing states, countries that 
are investing heavily in their militaries . . . as I look at the new 
kinds of threats emerging from cyber to precision ballistic and cruise 
missiles and so on--my greatest worry is that we will do to the defense 
budget what we have done four times before. And that is, slash it in an 
effort to find some kind of a dividend to put the money someplace else. 
I think that would be disastrous in the world environment we see today 
and what we're likely to see in the years to come.''

I urge my colleagues to heed the advice of the Secretary in this 
matter and vote no to a cut in defense spending. Instead of another 
Federal bailout, let's make sure our men and women in uniform have the 
resources and equipment they need. Leave this money in the Department 
of Defense where it belongs.