---
---

# FORT HOOD
## `13002a58931ace8fa24733bc3a844a62`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia — 2 February 2010`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. If the gentleman will yield, and, Mr. 
Speaker, I thank Judge Carter for yielding. I don't think that the 
logic of this legislation is a stretch in any way. I'm sitting hear 
listening, Mr. Speaker, to my colleague from Texas describe this bill, 
Fort Hood Families Benefits Protection Act, H.R. 4088.

I would think that you ought to get 434 votes, if not 435, in the 
House of Representatives, and 100 in the Senate, Judge, is my opinion, 
because that Islamic extremist--and, as you say, camouflaged in an Army 
uniform with officer's insignia on that uniform--is every bit of an 
Islamic extremist as those characters in Afghanistan, in Iraq, aided 
and abetted, I think, by Iran, in many instances, that make those 
improvised explosive devices, that put them in the ground, that 
detonate them cowardly in a remote fashion and blow our young men and 
women to smithereens. I've had over 30 from my congressional district 
in the 11th of Georgia pay the last full measure. And that's what these 
14 that were killed and 43 or whatever the number is in Fort Hood. Same 
thing. Exact same thing.



And so, Mr. Speaker, I commend them. I think it's absolutely right. 
They should have a status to ensure full benefits and eligibility for 
the Purple Heart and a civilian equivalent award for those who are 
civilians. They were killed not by just some ordinary nut. They were 
killed by an Islamic extremist in the same fashion that our men and 
women are being killed in Afghanistan and Iraq.