---
---

# CLOSE THE CONTRACTOR FRAUD LOOPHOLE ACT
## `1325dc7740558bf140ede21b80b1ecd8`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Mr. Speaker, one of the fundamental 
responsibilities that this Congress has is to protect taxpayer dollars. 
That has become an enormous challenge, as many of the taxpayer dollars 
that are appropriated are paid to private contractors.

The growth in contracting in the past 6 or 7 years has exploded. 
Procurement spending in 2000 was $213 billion. Procurement spending is 
when we enter into a contract with a private company to deliver goods 
or services. That amount exploded last year to $412 billion. Much of 
that is going to Iraq and Afghanistan. Much of this is being subject to 
waste, fraud and abuse.

The Oversight Committee under Mr. Waxman and Mr. Davis has done 
vigorous oversight and identified in 2006 that there were 118 contracts 
valued at $745 billion that were found by government auditors to 
include a significant component of fraud, abuse and mismanagement. And, 
in fact, it got worse.

In 2008, that report identified 187 contracts valued at $1.1 
trillion, where they were plagued by waste, fraud and abuse.

The bottom line is, will we, as a Congress, Republicans and 
Democrats, be vigilant in protecting taxpayer dollars? We have to do 
that, especially when there is documented evidence of rip-offs, wicked 
rip-offs that have occurred with taxpayer dollars in Afghanistan and in 
Iraq.

There's two goals that we have. The first that we widely share is 
that every taxpayer dollar will be accounted for, and that the 
taxpayers who were working hard to support this government and our 
troops will see that their money is spent on proper things that are in 
the contract. We have to protect the taxpayer.

The second is we've got to protect the troops. If we are spending 
money in Iraq and Afghanistan for the intended purpose of bringing our 
troops home and improving our national security, any dollar that's 
wasted that results in any additional injury, or one day prolonged in 
the conflicts, is a dollar that is improperly wasted. We cannot do 
that.

So I believe that this loophole, however it got there, by mistake or 
by sleight of hand, however it got there, it's got to be closed. 
Obviously, if you have a regulation, as it was written, that says we 
will report fraud when it is a rip-off on a domestic contract, but we 
won't when it's on a foreign contract, we're sending a very unambiguous 
message. There's a green light to rip off taxpayers if the money is 
being spent abroad. That's not a defensible position. And that's why 
we're closing this loophole to make it absolutely clear that's 
unacceptable.

Now I think it does make sense. What Congressman Davis proposed as a 
new way of proceeding is fine with me. And here's why. The bottom line 
is protecting the taxpayers and protecting our troops. And if we can 
accomplish that better by finding a way that has bipartisan support, we 
can all have more confidence that we'll be successful.

So I'm glad to work with Chairman Davis in order to have this get 
done in a bipartisan way. I want to thank very much Chairman Waxman and 
the great work of my chairman of the subcommittee, Mr. Towns, for 
bringing this forward so quickly and so effectively.