# END VETERAN HOMELESSNESS ACT OF 2010
## `1325527424aa255fde711318835c68c8`
`Mr. FILNER — 22 March 2010`

---


Mr. FILNER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, this is the first of a series of six pieces of 
legislation that will benefit our Nation's veterans. This Congress, and 
certainly this committee, has been concerned with these veterans in our 
daily work, and we are proud to present these items which will help 
prevent veterans' homelessness, protect National Guard employment, help 
veterans keep their home, give veterans a cost-of-living adjustment.

Before I begin on this package, Madam Speaker, I just would like to 
briefly comment on a little item that came up yesterday during the 
debate on health care.

One of our veterans service organizations and the ranking member of 
our committee claimed that the bill that we would pass would hurt 
veterans' health care. I just want to point out on behalf of all the 
Chairs on this side of the aisle, all the legal opinions that have been 
made, veterans' health care is not affected by the health care bill 
that we passed. All the benefits will be retained. Nobody will be 
penalized for being part of the veterans health care system or any 
other part of veterans health benefits.

Congress actually received a letter yesterday from the Vietnam 
Veterans of America which said: ''It is unfortunate that some continue 
to raise what is now even more clearly a false alarm that is apparently 
meant to frighten veterans and their families in order to prompt them 
to oppose the pending legislation. While there is a legitimate debate 
as to whether or not the pending health care measure should become law, 
Vietnam Veterans of America does not appreciate spreading rumors that 
are not accurate by any political partisan from any point of the 
political spectrum.''

I just want to allay any fears that veterans have about this health 
care legislation. And certainly our committee, should anything arise 
that was unintended, we will move quickly to make sure that veterans 
health care is kept at a high quality and no one is penalized for 
having veterans health care in this country. So I want to point that 
out, Madam Speaker.

Now, to get back to the bill we have, H.R. 4810, under consideration. 
Almost half the homeless on the street tonight, Madam Speaker, are 
veterans--anywhere from 150,000 to 200,000. This is a national 
disgrace. It is our national disgrace. It's been an issue that I have 
been working on since I came to Congress when I joined the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs almost 18 years ago. Now that the Democrats have the 
majority, we want to put forward a plan, as our Secretary of Veterans' 
Affairs has announced, a plan to end veterans' homeless within 5 years. 
Zero tolerance. That's going to be our policy.

Today we have the opportunity to take bold action to combat 
homelessness, but, as I said, we have a willing and eager 
administration to make sure that we achieve this goal. President Obama 
and his Secretary of Veterans' Affairs have, as I said, pledged to end 
homelessness over the next 5 years. Our Secretary has committed to 
expanding proven programs and launching innovative services to prevent 
veterans from falling into homelessness.

This bill before us, H.R. 4810, does three important things to 
provide the administration with the necessary tools to combat 
homelessness:

First, the bill would provide additional funding for the Grant and 
Per Diem Program, which provides grants to community agencies so they 
can, in turn, provide transitional housing, health services, and other 
supportive services to homeless veterans. Providing needed resources to 
the local agencies that care for our homeless veterans is just one way 
our grateful Nation can support the vital and compassionate work 
performed in communities all across the country.

Second, this bill helps low-income veteran families who are occupying 
permanent housing from becoming homeless by extending powerful and 
effective support services. Examples of these services include 
outreach, case management, and assistance in obtaining benefits from 
the VA, as well as public benefits from State and local agencies.

Finally, H.R. 4810 helps the increasing number of female veterans who 
end up being homeless. This is especially magnified for our women 
veterans coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan, who are four times more 
likely to become homeless than their male counterparts. My bill would 
direct the Department of Veterans Affairs to focus outreach efforts on 
homeless women veterans and homeless veterans with children.

This powerful bill is the result of significant work by the entire 
committee. I would like to thank the chairman of our Subcommittee on 
Health, Mike Michaud from Maine, and Ranking Member Henry Brown from 
South Carolina for the bipartisan leadership they demonstrated on this 
bill. I'd also like to recognize the important contributions of our 
colleagues Harry Teague of New Mexico, Ciro Rodriguez of Texas, and 
Phil Hare of Illinois. Each of these Members are true advocates for 
homeless veterans and introduced legislation helping homeless veterans 
that are now key provisions of this bill. I'd also like to thank our 
staff from the Health Committee, especially our staff director, Cathy 
Wiblemo, who has worked so hard on this legislation for such a long 
time.

There are hundreds of thousands of servicemembers returning from Iraq 
and Afghanistan. It is our duty as a Nation, when we put our men and 
women in harm's way, to care for them when they return. We must also 
live up to the promise to honor the service and sacrifices of our 
veterans from previous conflicts. This is an opportunity today, Madam 
Speaker, to make a difference in the lives of veterans who are sleeping 
in cars, looking for public housing, searching for relief, and feeling 
helpless.

I urge all of our colleagues to pass H.R. 4810 to provide the help 
and support that our homeless veterans need and deserve.

I would reserve the balance of my time.