# RECOGNIZING ISRAELI HUMANITARIAN EFFORTS IN HAITI
## `133b3a7d6a121b479465b0cca91df00e`
`Ms. BERKLEY â€” 14 July 2010`

---


Ms. BERKLEY. Madam Speaker, I am going to be putting into the 
Congressional Record an article in the Annals of Internal Medicine 
entitled Early Disaster Response in Haiti: the Israeli Field Hospital 
Experience. It talks about how the Israeli Defense Forces Medical Corps 
Field Hospital was fully operational only 89 hours after the earthquake 
struck and was capable of providing sophisticated medical care. In the 
10 days the hospital was operational, the Israelis treated over 1,100 
patients, hospitalized 737 patients, and performed 244 operations. At 
the same time, the Iranians were shipping Scud missiles through Syria 
to Hezbollah to rearm them on the northern border of Israel; the Turks 
were trying to create an international incident with their ridiculous 
flotilla; the Iraqis, the Sunnis and the Shiites kept killing each 
other. In Pakistan, the government seems to be immobile when it comes 
to the terrorist attacks in that country. In Afghanistan, the Taliban 
keeps killing Americans; and Hamas continues to terrorize its own 
Palestinian people in the Gaza. All of that while the Israelis are 
actually doing something important for humanity. I think we ought to 
wake up and appreciate what the Israelis do.







[From Annals of Internal Medicine, May 4, 2010]

Early Disaster Response in Haiti: The Israeli Field Hospital Experience

(By Yitshak Kreiss, MD, MHA, MPA; Ofer Merin, MD; Kobi Peleg, PhD, MPH; 
 Gad Levy, MD; Shlomo Vinker, MD; Ram Sagi, MD; Avi Abargel, MD, MHA; 
Carmi Bartal, MD, MPH; Guy Lin, MD; Ariel Bar, MD, MHA; Elhanan Bar-On, 



MD; Mitchell J. Schwaber, MD, MSc; and Nachman Ash, MD, MS)




 (The earthquake that struck Haiti in January 2010 caused an 


 estimated 230,000 deaths and injured approximately 250,000 


 people. The Israel Defense Forces Medical Corps Field 


 Hospital was fully operational on site only 89 hours after 


 the earthquake struck and was capable of providing 


 sophisticated medical care. During the 10 days the hospital 


 was operational, its staff treated 1111 patients, 


 hospitalized 737 patients, and performed 244 operations on 


 203 patients. The field hospital also served as a referral 


 center for medical teams from other countries that were 


 deployed in the surrounding areas.



 The key factor that enabled rapid response during the early 


 phase of the disaster from a distance of 6000 miles was a 


 well-prepared and trained medical unit maintained on 


 continuous alert. The prompt deployment of advanced-


 capability field hospitals is essential in disaster relief, 


 especially in countries with minimal medical infrastructure. 


 The changing medical requirements of people in an earthquake 


 zone dictate that field hospitals be designed to operate with 


 maximum flexibility and versatility regarding triage, staff 


 positioning, treatment priorities, and hospitalization 


 policies. Early coordination with local administrative bodies 


 is indispensable.)



 An earthquake measuring 7.0 on the Richter magnitude scale 


 struck close to Port-au-Prince, Haiti, on 12 January 2010. 


 The official death toll was set at 230,000, and local 


 authorities estimated that 250,000 people were injured. This 


 catastrophic event galvanized a strong and rapid response 


 worldwide, and the Israeli government quickly decided to 


 launch a medical humanitarian mission to provide medical care 


 as advanced as possible under the circumstances.



 Whereas the fate of patients with life-threatening 


 internal-organ injuries is determined within the first hours 


 of a disaster, early provision of treatment for the 


 multitudes of patients with open fractures can prevent life-


 threatening sepsis and limb-threatening infections. In 


 addition, situations involving substantial casualties 


 combined with extensive damage to local medical facilities 


 and infrastructure highlight




 the need for a resourceful, experienced, and trained medical 


 team backed by a logistics contingent. The Israel Defense 


 Forces Medical Corps (IDF-MC) Field Hospital comprises such a 


 unit.



 The field hospital staff consisted of 121 servicemen and 


 servicewomen (Appendix Table 1, available at www.annals.org) 


 and was organized into medical, surgical, orthopedic, 


 pediatric, gynecologic, and ambulatory care divisions, as 


 well as auxiliary units (Appendix Figure, available at 


 www.annals.org), with a capacity of 60 inpatient beds that 


 could be expanded to 72.



 To ensure maximum optic independence and to shorten the 


 time to deployment, we brought all hospital supplies; a fully 


 stocked pharmacy, including sufficient oral antibiotics to be 


 distributed on discharge; imaging machinery; a laboratory 


 that could perform blood tests and urine chemistry, 


 hematology, blood gases, and microbiology analyses; and 


 autoclaves for sterilization. Energy sources (generators) and 


 accommodations (tents and latrines) were also brought from 


 Israel. This crucial effort was carried out by a highly 


 trained, skilled logistics unit of 109 personnel, including 


 computer and communication specialists, security staff, 


 kitchen staff, carpenters, plumbers, mechanics, electricians 


 and a burial team.
