# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `133e662014d7e24de56c75c2bb6eb30a`
`Mr. BIDEN — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, we will hear a lot, today and this week, of 
phrases such as ''last best chance,'' ''refuse to endorse an 
alternative plan,'' ''Iraq is a central front of the war on terror.'' 
Virtually no one subscribes to any of those three points--all of the 
experts who have given testimony, the Iraqi Study Group, the plans that 
have been put forward that are real alternatives.

The President has not put forward a plan. He has put forward a 
tactic, a tactic that most experts, including his own military, think 
will make a plan for success less likely to be able to be arrived at.

No one in this Senate, at least in this debate, at least from my 
perspective, is calling for us cutting and running--none of that. I 
hope we keep our eye focused, our eye on the ball.

The Senate is today taking a first step toward a bipartisan effort to 
prevent the escalation of a war in Iraq and to adapt a strategy for 
Iraq for leaving Iraq without leaving behind chaos.

The first step is to debate and vote the resolution offered by 
Senator Warner and reintroduced by Senator Levin and me as a bill. That 
says the Senate disagrees with the President's plan to send 17,500 more 
American troops into the middle of a city of over 6.2 million people in 
the midst of a civil war, because what we are afraid of is that the 
Senator from Texas may be right; this may make things so bad that 
everyone will conclude there is no more chance of succeeding.


We have vital interests in that region. I am afraid this policy, this 
tactic of the President, is going to be a self-fulfilling prophesy. The 
question before us today is whether a minority of Senators will even 
allow a debate to start. That is what this is about. All they have to 
do--there will be other resolutions brought up; they are able to be 
brought up--all they have to do is take issue with this. They can stop 
the debate by getting 41 votes. But they can actually engage in debate 
and try to defeat the notion, when the message of this resolution is: 
Mr. President, stop. No more escalation, Mr. President.

Everyone from the Iraq Study Group to the Biden-Gelb plan, to every 
other plan that has been put out there says the way to get the Iraqis 
to reach a political solution is to begin to draw


down American forces. No one, including General Petraeus, whom I know 
fairly well, suggests there is a military answer. A political solution 
is required. So to my colleagues who are thinking about trying to block 
the debate, let me say this: Iraq dominates our national life. It is on 
the minds of tens of millions of Americans. It shapes the lives of 
hundreds of thousands of our men and women in uniform and their 
families. And that the Senate would not even debate, much less vote, on 
the single most urgent issue of our time would be a total forfeiture of 
our responsibility.

We have a duty to debate and to vote on the President's tactic. We 
have a duty to debate and vote on our overall strategy in Iraq. And we 
have a duty as Senators to speak out and say where we are.

Three weeks ago, Secretary of State Rice came before the Foreign 
Relations Committee and presented the President's plan. Its main 
feature is to send more troops, increase the total number of troops, 
and send them into Baghdad in the middle of a sectarian war.

The reaction on the committee, from Republicans to Democrats alike, 
ranged from skepticism, to profound skepticism, to outright opposition. 
That pretty much reflects the reaction all across the country.

So Senator Hagel joined me and Senator Lugar and Senator Snowe. We 
sat down and wrote a resolution to give Senators a way to vote what 
their voices were saying, for we believe the quickest and most 
effective way to get the President to change course is to demonstrate 
to him that his policy has little or no support across the board, 
Democrats and Republicans.

After we introduced the resolution, the distinguished ranking member 
of the Armed Services Committee, Senator Warner, came forward with his 
resolution. The bottom line of the resolutions is the same: Mr. 
President, don't send more Americans into the middle of a civil war.

There was one critical difference. As originally written, the Warner 
resolution left open the possibility of increasing the overall number 
of troops in Iraq, when in fact the Iraq Study Group and others said we 
should be declining to get action from the politicians in Iraq.

We believe that would have sent the wrong message. Not ramp up; 
again, to draw down, redeploy forces remaining in Iraq. And the best 
way to make that clear to the Iraqi people is to let them know we are 
not going to be there forever, as the President said. And they must 
begin to make the hard compromises necessary for a political solution 
that virtually everyone agrees is necessary to end this war.

So we approached Senator Warner to work out our differences, and I am 
very pleased to say we succeeded in doing that. The language Senator 
Warner removed from his resolution removed the possibility that it 
could be read as calling for a troop increase. With that change, we 
agreed to support his resolution. And I do.

When I first spoke out against the President's planned surge before 
the New Year, I made it clear I had one objective: I hoped to build and 
demonstrate bipartisan opposition to this plan because it was the 
fastest way to turn the President around. And that is exactly what we 
have done.

Now we have a real opportunity for the Senate to speak clearly. Every 
Senator should be given a chance to vote on whether he or she approves 
or disapproves of the President's tactic to send more troops into the 
middle of a civil war.

The debate we will have is important, but the debate is as important 
as the vote. And I hope the American people carefully listen. I predict 
they will hear very few colleagues stand up and support the President's 
plan to send more troops into the middle of a civil war. Listen to the 
voices. Listen to the voices as well as the votes.

Just as important as what we are voting against is what we are voting 
for. This bill, similar to the Biden-Hagel-Levin-Snowe provision, makes 
three things clear.

First, Iraq needs a political settlement. Second, the United States 
has to work with other regional powers. And third, the mission of our 
forces should be confined to counterterrorism, training, and 
maintaining the territorial integrity of Iraq.


Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining?