# HONORING CAPTAIN JOSEPH GUYTON
## `134517c602d2377a69d783d2f24cb096`
`Mr. WITTMAN — 18 May 2010`

---


Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor and pay special 
tribute to a dedicated American and true patriot for whose service to 
this country as a Captain in the United States Army deserves our 
sincere gratitude. Capt. Joseph ''Joe'' Guyton of Stafford, Virginia 
served with the U.S. Army's 5th Stryker division in Kandahar, 
Afghanistan. On August 11th, 2009, while Capt. Guyton was conducting a 
mounted area reconnaissance his unit was attacked by an improvised 
explosive device. Against all odds he somehow survived, however, the 
attack left him with severe injuries that resulted in the bilateral 
amputation of both of his legs.

Currently Capt. Guyton is continuing his recovery with the aid of his 
loving wife Amy at Walter Reed Medical Army Center. He amazes and 
inspires us all with his will to live


and a special can do attitude. As he now fights a very different kind 
of war, rebuilding his life without the aid of his two front legs, he 
now runs with his heart. His continued faith and courage in the coming 
years will serve as a source of inspiration to those around him and a 
lesson to us all. We should all offer our sincere blessings to him and 
his fine family that has stood with him through this ordeal. Capt. 
Guyton and his wife, Amy, intend to move back to where they first met 
at the University of Virginia to raise a family.

This poem, entitled ''Stryking Deep!'' was penned in Capt. Guyton's 
honor by a close friend, Albert Caswell.















 Stryking Deep!



 Stryking Hard!


 Stryking Fast! Stryking Deep!


 All in our lives, these things that which last! All in our 





 lives to keep!


 Are but, all of those things that which count! That, all 





 hearts should so seek!


 All in our hearts of love, like our gifts from above . . . 





 that which so makes our Lord so weep!


 All along our life's path, our Full Measure upon this earth 





 as asked . . . to climb mountains, steep!


 For there are only so many minutes, before out life's path is 





 complete!


 To leave behind, all in our lives . . . those things which 





 last, oh how so very sweet!


 For from This Great Old Dominion . . .


 Have but come, such great patriotic sons of distinction! Such 





 Fine Virginians!


 The likes of Washington and Lee, Marshall and Jefferson . . . 





 all of these ones!


 Who for our Country Tis of Thee, did what must so be done!


 As when a Cavalier, went off to war . . .


 To Strike Out, and So Very Deep . . . for our Nations 





 Freedom, to ensure!


 Yea, he wasn't no regular Joe! For Strength In Honor, was his 





 code!


 Marching into the face of death . . . for us . . . the things 





 he bore!


 Remember, you sleep well this night!


 All because of such men of light, who our Freedom's so 





 ensure!


 Who So Face Death! And To Us So Bless! Can you, but not ask 





 for more?


 As when that day came, as all in the midst of hell . . .


 Near death, as he so lay . . . close to death that day! As 





 when his fine heart would so swell!


 As when he made that choice, to Stryk Back and Stryk Deep . . 





 . and listen to his inner voice!


 All in his loss, all in his pain! Looking down, as his strong 





 legs so no longer so remained . . .


 As upon, his most courageous face . . . the tears began to 





 rain!


 As his new war had begun, for this one of Virginia's finest 





 Southern Sons . . .


 To Teach Us, To Reach Us, To All Hearts . . . To So Beseech 





 Us!


 Stryking all of our Hearts, so very deep! With his courage 





 and faith, that he would so keep!


 Because, men like him . . . who with their hearts, towards 





 Heaven run . . .


 Our lives, will never be the same! And Capt. Joe Guyton, is 





 his name!


 And if I ever have a Son, I but hope and pray he could be 





 like this one . . .


 Moments, are all we have! All in our lives, To Stryk!


 For What Is True! For What Is Deep! If its Heaven we wish to 





 keep!


 For such noble things in life, to so live and die for . . . 





 is what is right!


 For only from such hearts of Magnificence, can come light!