# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `134833e5e36ca41a7cd9408b44440d96`
`Mr. CUMMINGS — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Speaker, despite my opposition to the war in Iraq, 
I supported the passage of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, 
and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007, H.R. 1591, when it came before the 
House in March. It was a difficult decision but I had to vote my 
conscience.

For the first time we were requiring accountability standards by 
establishing benchmarks and a timeframe for redeployment. Another 
persuasive factor in supporting H.R. 1591 was the funding for body 
armor, Mine Resistant Ambush Protection vehicles, MRAP, traumatic brain 
injury, TBI, and post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, and veterans 
health care. Finally, I was encouraged by the fact that we were taking 
proper care of our soldiers by ensuring that they were properly rested, 
trained, and equipped. Unfortunately, President Bush vetoed this bill 
that could not be overturned by the House.

A few weeks ago on May 10, Congress considered and passed version two 
of the Iraq Supplemental, H.R. 2206. This bill would have provided 
$42.8 billion for the Iraq War. Funding would have supported the 
immediate needs of the U.S. military through July. However, shortly 
before the August recess Congress would have to decide whether to 
release an additional $52.8 billion of war spending that would last 
until September.

This measure would have placed needed limitations on access to 
funding based upon the progress reports provided to Congress by the 
President thereby, bringing the President and his administration back 
to reality by enforcing accountability standards. However, in an effort 
to avoid another veto by President Bush, H.R. 2206 has been butchered 
into a bill hallow and reintroduced without needed provisions that 
would safeguard this country from continuing a seemingly endless 
military operations in Iraq. Therefore, I voted in favor of Amendment 1 
to H.R. 2206 and voted against Amendment 2.

One of my primary concerns has been to ensure that the troops receive 
the equipment, rest and training they require and surely deserve. In 
keeping in line with these key concerns, I voted in support of 
Amendment 1 to H.R. 2206, which provides support for defense and the 
global war on terror totaling over $14.489 billion in funding 
namely, $617 million in state and foreign operations, $3.137 billion 
for BRAC (fully-funded), $1.789 billion in Veterans Medical Care 
(including funding for Walter Reed Medical Center), and $1.050 billion 
for Homeland Security.


Moreover, Amendment 1 supports our troops by appropriating $343 
million for our military personnel in the U.S. Army, $408 million for 
our service members in the U.S. Navy, about $108.9 million for our 
troops in the Marine Corps, $139.3 million for those in the U.S. Air 
Force and marked increases in funding for our reserve personnel. 
Furthermore, it protects


our troops on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan by supplying over $258 
million for defense-wide MRAP vehicles as well as over $2.6 billion in 
funding for the armed forces to purchase this same equipment.

Amendment 1 also resolves many of the shortcomings of our military 
medical healthcare facilities and defense health programs inability to 
treat and care for our men and women in uniform returning from combat 
with injuries. In doing so, it allots $1.878 billion for our Defense 
Health Programs specifically, $6 million for treatment of TBI and those 
suffering from PTSD, the signature injuries of our troops returning 
from Iraq and Afghanistan. It also provides needed oversight of our 
military medical treatment facilities, military housing, medical hold 
personnel and housing provided to them by requiring a series of 
inspections be conducted by the Secretary of Defense thereby, ensuring 
that our service members never again return to military facilities at 
home that are substandard.

Amendment 1 also provides $393 million in funding to the State 
Children's Health Insurance Programs, SCHIP, a vital program to the 
Nation and to the State of Maryland.

Currently, over 137,000 children in Maryland are without health 
insurance. Fully funding this program will be a great step toward 
providing universal health care to our neediest children. I should also 
note that Amendment 1 also provides needed agricultural, FEMA and 
general Gulf Coast recovery support for those still suffering from the 
widespread damage caused by Hurricane Katrina by appropriating over 
$2.87 billion in financial support.

President Bush can no longer expect a blank check without any 
accountability given the current circumstances in Iraq. Over 3,400 
soldiers have died and the number increases each day. We have been 
working diligently to negotiate with the President but he has 
constantly failed to meet us halfway, despite the clear need for a new 
direction and policy in Iraq. His mandate to have a bill with no 
strings attached as to time lines for redeployment or one absent of key 
benchmarks measuring our progress with accountability and needed 
oversight measures included is unreasonable and irresponsible. This is 
exactly why I firmly disapprove of Amendment 2.

The President has outlined the need for benchmarks himself 
particularly, in a January 13, 2007 radio address stating that 
''America will hold the Iraqi Government to benchmarks it has 
announced. These include taking responsibility for security in all of 
Iraq's provinces by November, passing legislation to share oil revenues 
among all Iraqis, and spending $10 billion of its own money on 
reconstruction projects that will create new jobs.'' These are strong 
commitments. And the Iraqi Government knows that it must meet them, or 
lose the support of the Iraqi and the American people.

The President must be held accountable. No more blank checks. It is 
our duty to protect our brave men and women in uniform. Therefore, I 
call on my colleagues listen to the American people and vote against 
Amendment 2.
