# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `1353fb1352a78b9c813ecc3afe9f9cd3`
`Mr. INHOFE — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, it is my understanding the debate will 
start with our side. I encourage all Members who wish to be heard on 
our side on any of these resolutions to come to the floor and be heard.

Let me share some thoughts. This is a rather awkward situation we 
find ourselves in because we are debating three resolutions 
concurrently. Frankly, one of the three I have not even seen yet, so it 
is very difficult to debate something you have never seen. But I do 
know from the past discussions the type of concerns people have, the 
differences between, quite frankly, the Republican side and the 
Democratic side. I know it is not right down party lines, but let me 
share some concerns I have and some thoughts I have.

We heard from several Senators who expressed their concern over our 
micromanaging the war from this body and from the body of the other 
side. Five hundred and thirty-five people cannot be Commanders in 
Chief. It seems as if that is what is happening. Also, I observe, and I 
am only speaking for myself, that this thing has become highly 
politicized. When the war first started,


the whole idea of weapons of mass destruction was the media trying to 
make us believe that is what it was all about, but that isn't what it 
was all about.

I was on the Senate Armed Services Committee during that time, both 
before and after 9/11, and I observed what was going on. I observed 
what was going on in Iraq for a long period of time. I had the honor 
back in 1991 of going to Kuwait on what they called at that time the 
''First Freedom Flight.'' There were Democrats and Republicans on that 
flight. We were the first ones to land in Kuwait. The Iraqis didn't 
even know the war was over at that time, and the oilfields were burning 
in Kuwait. I remember Tony Coelho was one of the Democrats who was on 
the trip, and Alexandria Hague was one of the Republicans on the trip.

He also had the Ambassador from Kuwait to the United States and his 
daughter on the trip, going back for the first time to Kuwait to see 
what damage was done by Saddam Hussein in Kuwait City. I remember so 
well--I don't recall the age of the daughter; maybe she was about 8 
years old. I remember so well that when we landed, the oil fields were 
burning, Iraqis were still fighting, not knowing there had been an 
agreement and fires should have ceased by that time. They were still 
shooting at each other. When it calmed down, we went to their home.

Keep in mind the Ambassador to the United States from Kuwait was of 
nobility and he had a daughter with women. They had a mansion on the 
Persian Gulf, a beautiful place. We got there in time to see that their 
house had been used as one of the headquarters of Saddam Hussein. His 
young daughter wanted to see her bedroom, her stuffed animals and 
things girls want to see. We found out her room had been used for a 
torture chamber. There were body parts stuck to the walls, human hair 
and hands, where the torturing had been taking place.

I think sometimes people forget about how bad this guy was. We hear a 
lot about Adolf Hitler, and this guy was certainly the worst since the 
brutality of Auschwitz and Hitler and, of course, the Holocaust. If you 
had been there and looked down and seen the bodies in the open graves, 
if you heard the testimony from others whose daughters could not get 
married because they could not have weddings on the streets of Baghdad 
because, if they did, people would come in, the Iraqis, and Saddam 
Hussein's sons would come in and mob everybody and they would kill 
people and take the pretty girls and rape them and bury them alive. 
These atrocities that took place were inconceivable to people.

You don't hear about this in the media. They say they didn't find 
weapons of mass destruction. Well, you know, that is a moot point. 
There were weapons of mass destruction because they used weapons of 
mass destruction. They used them in the northern parts of Iraq. Saddam 
Hussein brutally, painfully murdered his own people, and the types of 
gases used in these weapons of mass destruction were the most painful 
kind that would torture people to death, burn them from the inside out. 
All the time this was happening, we heard testimonials about how Saddam 
Hussein was treating his people he thought perhaps were his enemies and 
didn't follow him after the war in 1991, and how they would put people 
to death, torture them, and drop them into vats of oil. The victims 
would be praying that they would put them in head first because their 
life would be over sooner. It was the same with the massive machines--
like what we call shredders in this country--where they would shred the 
live bodies of these individuals. They used the most brutal types of 
torture imaginable.

I thought once they get Saddam Hussein and once he is disposed of and 
is dead, people will realize this monster is not coming back. 
Unfortunately, there are other monsters who would take up the mantle. 
These things have gone undiscussed, unnoticed. Even if there had not 
been weapons of mass destruction--which there were, because they used 
them, either chemical or biological, which is just as cruel as nuclear, 
and effective, and it kills many people. Even if that had not been the 
case, America could not stand by and watch that type of thing 
happening.

I have had the honor of going back more times than any other Member 
of the Senate. I will be going next week. It will be my 13th trip to 
the area of responsibility in Iraq. Each time I come back, after seeing 
the progress that is being made, I read the newspapers, the press 
accounts, and there is no relationship between reality and the press 
accounts we get.

I had the honor of being in Fallujah during a couple of the 
elections. The Iraqi security forces--people are not aware of this, but 
they allowed them to vote a day in advance of the normal voting that 
took place. I was purposely at a couple of these elections in Fallujah 
because that was where the problems were supposed to exist. That is 
where our marines were. They conducted door to door and they did 
incredible and great work at that time. The Iraqi security forces were 
the first to go down and vote. I remember one night having them come 
back and talk about the threats that had been made on their lives. Some 
were shot during the process. They were willing to risk their lives to 
vote and then to help the people vote the next day. The next day, the 
other Iraqis came to vote. We all heard about the fingerprinting and 
holding up with pride their stained finger, which would be a death 
sentence on individuals. In this country, when such a small percentage 
of the people vote, and we look at those who are willing to risk their 
lives, I think how dear that privilege is and how we do not appreciate 
it as we should.

Anyway, they voted and, of course, they knew when they were going to 
vote, they would be in harm's way, and many were shot. There are heroic 
stories of Iraqis going to vote where they would lay down their lives 
and get in the line of fire to save somebody else. So these were 
experiences that we had, the real reasons for being there.

As we approach these resolutions--I see my friend from Missouri is 
here and I will soon yield to him whatever time he asks. As we discuss 
the resolutions, I want people to keep in mind the one thing those of 
us who believe the generals are more capable of running this war than 
are the individuals in this body, the 535 Members of the House and 
Senate--and of the 535, many of them want to be Commander in Chief; 
many are running. The generals make these decisions.

At this time, I ask my friend from Missouri how much time he wishes.