# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `1360bb950d72da226a14109879597dd6`
`Mr. HUNTER — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, first let me express my great respect for 
the gentleman who is offering this amendment. He does wonderful work on 
the committee and truly has a heart for those who have been impacted by 
the operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.

On that point, I would say I remember the time we were in Fallujah 
and a young Marine captain came up to us with some language he had 
written. In fact, his name was Kevin Coughlin. He thinks he has traded 
up. He moved on to the FBI from the committee staff. But we were so 
impressed with the language he had written to protect translators that 
we brought him back with us and made him part of the HASC staff. He did 
leave us a ''Dear John'' note after he left to go to work for the FBI, 
but a great young Marine captain. And he felt the same way we had, 
which is that our translators needed to be protected.

We have a program which protects them. Now, the question here is, are 
we going to mandate employment for them? That is the way I read this 
particular legislation. I don't think that is the right way to go.

I think that, first, a lot of these folks have got great initiative. 
They are happy to be in a free country. If we have a program to help 
make sure they know of all the job opportunities that are available and 
perhaps help them with language, make sure that they are connected with 
folks that are recruiting our people who need those language talents, I 
think that is great.

But I think the idea, at least the way I read this thing, that there 
is mandated employment, I think that is


going a step far. I think it is something we haven't done for other 
folks. In this case we have taken people and their families who helped 
the United States and we have relocated them in the greatest country in 
the world with the freedom to travel all these new roads that they have 
never been able to travel before.

But I think, for one thing, that the idea of guaranteed employment, 
if they have got a lot of spirit and a lot of initiative, that is the 
first way to kill spirit and initiative, is to give a guaranteed 
lifetime job to someone. I think we ought to take these folks who have 
this great energy, they have obviously displayed a loyalty to the 
United States, help them hook up with these thousands and tens of 
thousands of employers, including those in the government, but not have 
a program that guarantees employment.

So I thank the gentleman for the spirit of his amendment.

I would reserve the balance of my time.