# CLEAN ENERGY
## `13643c018932cae24182a22eed2522ec`
`Mr. INSLEE — 17 January 2007`

---


Mr. INSLEE. We had a meeting with Hank Paulson today, Secretary of 
the Treasury in the Bush administration, and he had made an interesting 
comment. I am very impressed with him, though I have been pretty 
critical of the Bush administration, because he has been a pretty 
outspoken advocate that we need to do something about global warning.

He said everything he has learned since taking the job as Secretary 
of the Treasury, he comes from a very successful Wall Street career, 
has been worse than he thought. The deficit, the situation in Iraq, 
everything he has learned has been worse than he thought, except 
energy, because he has learned about the new innovations going on 
around the country.

What we want to do is help businesses, like the Iogen Corporation, 
which is ready to build the first commercial cellulosic plant in 
America in Idaho. They are ready to go, as long as they can get their 
loan guaranty. They have 300 farmers that are going to give them their 
straw left over after wheat. They are going to chop it up, put an 
enzyme in it, and then free the carbohydrates and distill that into 
ethanol, and, boom, you have a product that is three to four times more 
productive per acre than the current type of ethanol we get from our 
farms.

Ocean Wave Technologies has the first permit for wave power in the 
United States off the coast of Oregon, a 50 megawatt plant. They are 
using a technology now that is in the water in Hawaii, generating 
technology with this buoy that is anchored below the water. It goes up 
and down and creates a force thoromatically that runs a generator. They 
are generating electricity today for the Navy. They are ready to make 
this a commercial operation. They need a little help to get started.

The Nanosolar Company, a company that was started, and the fellows 
who wrote the first two checks were the two guys who started Google. 
They have done pretty well for themselves, and they wrote a check to a 
couple of entrepreneurs in California, and now they are ready to do 450 
megawatts of thin cell solar, where you use a solar panel that has one-
fiftieth the width, using a selenium, iridium, gallium and caesium type 
of technology that they think can be 30 or 40 percent cheaper.

Another company trying something like this is called Miasole.

These are the companies that need help, not the big oil companies. 
And what we are doing tomorrow is shifting the subsidies that have been 
given away to the oil industry, an 18th century technology, and helping 
these new-generation technologies come on.

By the way, in this debate we are the optimists. We should identify 
who is on what side of this. We are the optimists who believe global 
warming can be dealt with. The pessimists say we can't.

Now, they are giving up. The debate about global warming is over. And 
I know it is over because yesterday the Exxon Corporation, which has 
fought tooth and nail the science on global warming, basically withdrew 
their support from the political organization that has tried to create 
doubt about global warming.

So when the Exxon Corporation agrees it is time to start getting 
serious about global warming, I think the debate is over. And now the 
question is, how can we join on a bipartisan basis to find solutions, 
and we are starting this tomorrow. I hope we draw some votes from some 
of our colleagues across the aisle.

I yield to Mr. Hall.