---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE TREMENDOUS SERVICE THAT MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES HAVE  GIVEN TO THE NATION
## `1365f5f41d7790617f83d4f4ca0a103d`
`Mr. WITTMAN of Virginia — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. WITTMAN of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
might consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of House Resolution 1020, as 
amended, which recognizes the tremendous service that members of the 
Armed Forces have given to the Nation, especially those who have been 
wounded in combat.

Madam Speaker, throughout our history, America's sons and daughters 
have been called upon to fight our Nation's wars to preserve our 
freedom and our way of life. Each time we have gone to war, these brave 
men and women who answered the call, unfortunately, have been wounded 
and injured; 204,002 in World War I, 671,846 in World War II, 103,284 
in Korea, 153,303 in Vietnam, and 467 in Desert Storm.

Today, Madam Speaker, as we continue to fight terrorism throughout 
the world, 30,000 soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines have been 
wounded and injured in Iraq and Afghanistan. As with


previous generations, these men and women are our Nation's finest, and 
we owe them more than just our gratitude.

Madam Speaker, since the beginning of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, Congress and the American people have made it clear that 
our combat wounded deserve the best our Nation has to offer. To that 
end, Congress has worked hard to ensure that the needs of the wounded 
troops and their families are met. From the best health care to jobs, 
to education benefits, the Members of this House have and will continue 
to insist that the support to the wounded and injured is unsurpassed.

Madam Speaker, there is no question that serving in combat is a 
profoundly life-altering experience. Men and women who survive the 
horrors of combat return home forever changed. Our Nation is eternally 
indebted to the brave men and women of the Armed Forces who fight to 
preserve our freedoms.

It is right and fitting, Madam Speaker, that today we recognize the 
service and the sacrifice of the members of the Armed Forces who have 
been wounded while serving this great Nation.

I'd like to thank my friend and colleague from Vermont (Mr. Welch) 
for introducing this resolution, and I strongly urge all Members to 
support this resolution.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.