# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT
## `1365d426aed57a8d15392707ee6ca439`
`Mr. BUYER â€” 21 April 2010`

---


Mr. BUYER. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise in support of S. 1963, as amended, the Caregivers and Veterans 
Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010.

This bill represents a bipartisan effort on behalf of the House and 
Senate, and I express my thanks to Chairman Filner, Chairman Akaka, and 
Ranking Member Burr for their leadership. I'd also like to thank 
Chairman Michaud and Ranking Member Brown of the Subcommittee on Health 
for their efforts in bringing this legislation forward.

Reflecting the spirit of compromise and cooperation, S. 1963 is 
composed of a number of bills from both sides of the aisle. It would 
provide increased access to care, better outreach and support for 
wounded veterans, rural veterans, and homeless veterans, and also 
includes enhancements and provisions of mental health care and 
readjustment counseling for recent veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan.

I would like to thank my good friend and colleague from Kansas, Jerry 
Moran, for his bill, H.R. 3103, that was included to help VA move 
forward with a pilot program to enhance contract care authority for 
highly rural veterans. This pilot, which was enacted in the last 
Congress, was Mr. Moran's initiative.

I'd also like to thank my friend John Duncan from Tennessee for 
introducing his bill, H.R. 402, which is included in this legislation. 
H.R. 402 would name the Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic in 
Knoxville, Tennessee, the William C. Tallent Veterans Outpatient 
Clinic. This gentleman honorably served in World War II and maintained 
a lifelong service to veterans.

S. 1963 would also establish a new, all-encompassing system of 
support for family caregivers. As we all know, some veterans of Iraq 
and Afghanistan have been severely wounded and will require a great 
deal of care for the rest of their lives. In previous wars, these 
veterans would probably not have survived their wounds, but significant 
improvements in battlefield medicine, the medicine logistics chain and 
the follow-up treatment have improved the survival rates for the most 
severely wounded combatants.

Family caregivers are more often than not at the core of what 
sustains the treatment and recovery of a severely wounded or injured 
soldier. Their commitment is strong and heartfelt; yet, it can be 
enormously challenging in a long recovery. There are many struggles 
that families face when assuming this role, including job absences, 
lost income, travel and relocation costs, child care concerns, 
exhaustion, and emotional and psychological stress. Many, 
understandably, become overwhelmed and eventually experience burnout. 
So there is a real problem, and the question is how to best address it.

I am concerned, however, about a provision in this bill that would 
establish an unprecedented stipend for certain family caregivers. I 
would have preferred to build upon and expand an existing successful 
Department of Veterans Affairs VA program known as Aid and Attendance. 
The Aid and Attendance program is paid directly to veterans so they can 
obtain the needed service in their own homes. The extent and types of 
services could be expanded, and last summer I proposed to do so in H.R. 
3407, the Severely Injured Veterans' Benefits Act of 2009. It would 
provide a 50 percent increase in compensation for catastrophically 
injured veterans who are in need of assistance for daily personal 
needs, such as bathing and eating. It gives the veteran the choice of 
how to obtain services tailored to their unique needs and 
circumstances.

It is unclear how the caregiver stipend program in this bill will 
operate and how it will work in conjunction with the present Aid and 
Attendance or whether it replaces some of the current services.

Additionally, Mr. Speaker, we lack a Congressional Budget Office 
estimate of this compromised agreement. It appears that the Democrat 
majority has not been obtaining CBO cost estimates for discretionary 
bills, and we still don't have the official views of the administration 
on the compromised legislation. I am aware of their concerns. I 
requested the administration to address them in writing on March 18, 
2010, and they were due on April 7. Although we have not yet read them, 
it is my understanding they are still in the concurrence process.

Based on legislative hearing testimony from last year, I believe the 
VA has concerns about the caregiver stipend as well as some of the 
other personnel provisions included in the bill. Dr. Cross, who is the 
principal deputy undersecretary for health, testified before the Senate 
Veterans Affairs Committee. This is in reference to the caregiver 
provisions. He stated, The VA does not support section 209. Currently 
we are able to contract for caregiver services with home health and 
similar public and private agencies. The contractor trains and pays 
them and affords them liability protection and oversees the quality of 
care. This remains the preferable arrangement as it does not divert VA 
from its primary mission of treating veterans and training clinicians. 
Moreover, it does not put VA in the position of having to tell family 
members how, at risk of losing their caregiver compensation, they have 
to care for their loved ones.

Mr. Speaker, it is unfortunate that the administration's concern 
regarding the caregiver stipend provision in this bill was not worked 
out because the bill, as a whole, does many good things for veterans. I 
hope this issue gets resolved with the administration, and I am pleased 
that legislation that I had sponsored, H.R. 1293, the Disabled Veterans 
Home Improvement and Structural Alteration Grant Increase Act of 2009, 
is in this bill. This would increase the amount VA is authorized to pay 
under its home health services to make modifications to a veteran's 
home to enable the veteran to be cared for in their home rather than in 
a hospital or institutional setting.



We should always be reminded that while veterans may spend only a 
short time in uniform, the wounds they carry home with them can last a 
lifetime and profoundly impact their daily lives.

I reserve my time.