# STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
## `136710b552ad62223e67defd0b63c2ac`
`Mr. BOND — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. General Maples also told the Senate Intelligence Committee 
that a withdrawal from Iraq could leave Iraq's vast oil reserves in the 
hands of jihadists. We can imagine what trouble that would lead to.

If we are not using our power to cut off the funds and force a hasty 
withdrawal, what are we doing? Are we telling the 21,000 brave men and 
women who are going to Iraq we are uncomfortable with the dangerous 
mission they are about to undertake but not offering any alternative? I 
am sure they will find that very encouraging. They will be delighted to 
know we don't like what they are doing but they will have to do it 
anyhow.

If the goal of the resolution is to let the American people know we 
are uncomfortable with the situation in Iraq, I guess that makes for 
good politics. But, personally, I think it is wrong and irresponsible. 
It is irresponsible because if we approve this resolution, the whole 
world will be listening, including the worst actors in Iraq. We will be 
telling the Sunni terror cells and the Shia militias that America's 
political will is wavering.

If the members of al-Qaida in Iraq are finding themselves discouraged 
by the United States military's relentless pursuit, I am sure they will 
take comfort from these political gestures. If the Iraqis who support 
and encourage the Shia death squads are feeling the heat of United 
States-led and supported operations and are contemplating a compromise 
that might bring sectarian killing to an end, I am sure they will take 
comfort from the political gesture to hold on a little longer.

One of the keys to a successful counterinsurgency campaign is to wear 
down the enemy's resolve. This resolution will do the opposite. It will 
encourage Sunni terrorists and Shia death squads, letting them know if 
they hang on longer, the United States will not have the political will 
to outlast them.

One of the ironies of the resolution is that it condemns a 
recommendation that comes from a group the Senate requested in 
legislation. The Iraq Study Group's report recommended that the Iraqi 
government:





. . . accelerate assuming responsibility for Iraqi 


 security by increasing the number and quality of Iraqi Army 


 brigades. While this process is underway, and to facilitate 


 it, the United States should significantly increase the 


 number of U.S. military personnel, including combat troops, 


 imbedded in and supporting Iraqi Army units. As these actions 


 proceed, U.S. combat forces could begin to move out of Iraq.


So let me make sure I have this right. The Senate demanded the 
legislation. The Iraq Study Group put together recommendations. The 
study group came forward and made recommendations and the President had 
the temerity to accept some of them, and now we are going to vote out a 
resolution condemning them for accepting those recommendations?

General Petraeus said this week to the Committee on Armed Services 
that he needs the 21,000 troops to get the job done. Are we telling him 
we don't think we should have those troops?

I have to confess, even as a Senator, I can't tell you exactly what 
we are trying to say in these resolutions. Are we expressing concern 
and discomfort with the situation in Iraq? I can't imagine how that 
would help. But more importantly, I can imagine lots of ways in which 
it will not help.

Look at the confusion within our Government in 1993 when the military 
had concerns about congressional intentions over our involvement in 
Somalia and how they prevented a request for armor that could have 
saved the lives of American soldiers. It is not a perfect analogy, of 
course, but I think it offers an important warning of the danger of 
mixed message like the one we will send with this resolution.


Our commander on the ground in Somalia in 1993, General Montgomery, 
requested a small unit of tanks and armored vehicles, as a quick 
reaction force in case our troops got bogged down or surrounded in the 
dense urban sprawl of Mogadishu, as they eventually did.

Les Aspin, the Secretary of Defense at the time, denied the 
commander's request. He told the Senate Armed Services Committee that 
''Congressional concerns about U.S. military involvement in Somalia 
were a factor in his decision to deny General Montgomery's request for 
armor.''

General Montgomery also told the Armed Services Committee that he 
would have used that armor in October 1993 ''Blackhawk Down'' incident 
to rescue our troops who were bogged down in urban combat with Somali 
militia men. General Montgomery said that if he had that armor, ''we 
would have gotten there faster. We would have taken fewer casualties.''

My fear is that, in addition to the message this resolution will send 
to our enemies about our lack of resolve, it will also send a wrong and 
confusing message to our military commanders.

Just like we did in Somalia in 1993, we are pretty much saying that 
while the President should not pull our military out of Iraq, they 
shouldn't bother asking for what they need to get the job done and 
protect themselves while they are there.

General Petraeus raised this very same issue in his testimony this 
week in front of the Senate Armed Services Committee. He said that he 
worried about what message this resolution. would send to his soldiers 
and himself.

If we are going to leave our troops in Iraq, as we should, we should 
also give them everything they need to protect themselves and get their 
job done. Just as importantly, we should not leave them with the 
mistaken impression that they shouldn't bother to ask for what they 
need.

Congress cannot, and should not micromanage the war in Iraq--the 
troops in the field like to call that the 8,000 mile screwdriver. If 
any Senator wants to propose legislation to compel a withdrawal from 
Iraq, so be it, and let's vote on the matter.

If not, let's stop trying to micromanage by resolution, suggestion 
and


gesture, put away the 8,000 mile screwdriver, and give the President's 
plan a chance to succeed.

The Deputy Director of National Intelligence, Tom Fingar, told the 
Senate Intelligence Committee this week that gains in stability in Iraq 
could open a window for gains in sectarian reconciliation. I agree, and 
we have to give the President's plan a chance to succeed if we want to 
open that window.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have two pertinent articles 
printed in the Record.