---
---

# LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `13882d32b043e8cfed1f60b3445ae008`
`Mr. KINGSTON — 22 June 2007`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. Thank you, Mr. Wamp. And I thank the Chair and 
congratulate both of you on your work for this bill.

I want to say, however, I do not support it. I am very disappointed 
that after the bill left the Appropriations Committee and went to the 
Rules Committee, a funny thing happened. All this transparency and all 
this promise of open government and open rules seemed to fade away in a 
dark corner room up on the third floor of this building, because there 
were 23 amendments offered, and yet only three of them were accepted.

We talk about bipartisanship and we talk about sunshine in the 
process, and yet this is the very bill that basically funds and perhaps 
even governs our own body, our own congressional branch, and yet it has 
the closed rule. And 20 amendments won't get the sunshine, will not get 
the debate because of the Rules Committee under Democrat leadership. I 
would say you need to go back to your campaign brochures and look at 
all the promises that you made before you pass another rule like this.

One of the casualties of this closed process was an amendment that I 
offered that deals with contractors who deal with the Federal 
Government, who work for the Federal Government. I'll give you some 
examples. December 2005, 22 Mexican nationals were found illegally 
working in Kirtland Air Force Base in Albuquerque, New Mexico. January 
27, 2001, illegal aliens were found working at Fort Benning, Georgia. 
March 2007, the Golden State Fence Company was actually fined because, 
in building a border security fence, they had hired 10 illegal aliens.

It doesn't stop there. In Louisiana, December 2005, a local company 
was busted working on a Veterans Administration hospital because they 
had illegal aliens. This is absurd. Now, I've heard from many people 
the theme of ''leading by example.'' Perhaps one thing we could do and 
absolutely should do is require that if you are contracting for the 
Federal Government, that you have a Social Security verification 
process going in your business, more than the sham, more than the, 
Yeah, but we have an I-9 kind of approach that we're seeing. And this 
would actually say you need to be in the ICE, which is the Customs and 
Immigration Enforcement Service, you need to be in the ICE Basic Pilot 
Program, which is a way to know that your employees have correct and 
legal Social Security numbers. That's all the amendment would have 
done.

I would predict that this amendment would get lots of bipartisan 
support because we see that the biggest issue facing America, besides 
Iraq and perhaps energy, is the issue of illegal immigration. And here 
was an opportunity for us to make a definitive statement, to have a 
significant amendment added to the bill, and the Democrats said no.

I hope they'll reconsider on future legislation.