---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `13a5dab1668e052f847a4ffb3f32efbb`
`Mr. OBEY — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Speaker, the measure we are considering today 
contains the same language pertaining to the Departments of Labor, 
Health and Human Services, Education and related agencies that the 
House approved by a vote of 269-142 on Wednesday evening. The statement 
of the managers accompanying the conference report on H.R. 3043 
contains instructions and guidance to these departments and agencies, 
including detailed tabular material regarding the allocation of 
resources among the various programs, projects and activity funded in 
the measure pending before us today.

House Report 110-424 reflects the intent of congressional guidance 
underlying the legislation now before the House. The departments and 
agencies funded in H.R. 3043 should implement these programs, projects 
and activities in a manner consistent with the guidance in that report.

Now that I have the boilerplate out of the way, Madam Speaker, let me 
simply make a very few observations. Madam Speaker, it is now ''put-up 
or shut up'' time in the House. This is a bipartisan bill. When the 
bill first passed the House, we had 53 Republicans supporting it, along 
with every single Democrat, except one. We had every single 
subcommittee Republican and Democrat vote for the bill as it left 
committee. When it was marked up, every single amendment offered from 
the minority side of the aisle was an amendment to increase, not 
decrease, funds.

The President, in the budget that he submitted to the Congress, 
suggested that we cut vocational education, cut special education, cut 
NIH funding, cut LIHEAP, and cut training for medical personnel in 
children's hospitals. We rejected those suggestions. We also kept a 
good many provisions in the bill that were sought by many minority 
members on the subcommittee.

Also, because it is such a controversial issue, we tried to cut 
through the issue of abortion, and we provided several hundred million 
dollars in initiatives to help encourage women to carry babies to full-
term, so we would offer young women something besides lectures when it 
came to the question of whether or not they would carry their babies to 
full-term or seek an abortion. After the bill left the House, we made 
further concessions to the White House and the minority party by 
cutting $1 billion out of the bill that we had voted on in the House.

Now, when we voted to go to conference a week ago, at that time, as 
you know, the intention of the majority was to include the Defense 
appropriation bill in this conference report. We heard many objections 
from the minority side of the aisle, so we conceded the point and took 
Defense out. We left Military Construction in, but the Senate overruled 
us. So now at this point we have a bill which is exactly what so many 
people said they wanted, a straight-up, unadorned Labor, Health, 
Education and Social Services bill.

I would point out that with respect to the question of earmarks, when 
this House started the consideration of this bill, I offered the House 
a chance to eliminate every single earmark with an amendment that I 
proposed. It was overwhelmingly defeated on both sides of the aisle, 
and this bill has proceeded within the spirit and the letter of the 
rules with respect to earmarks. It moved to the Senate, and it received 
almost 80 votes.

So now it is really up to us. The choice is whether or not we are 
going to exercise our own judgment as an independent body about what 
requirements we have in this economy, or whether we are simply going to 
wire our buttons to the White House door. I would hope that we would 
not do that.

In 2 short minutes remaining, I would like to simply remind Members 
what is at stake.

On health care, one in six Americans is without health insurance. 
That is 47 million Americans. The President cut funding for the primary 
Federal agency responsible for increasing health care access by $600 
million. This bill rejects those cuts and provides $1.5 billion above 
the President's request for programs to improve health care access, 
roughly the cost of 5 days' activities in Iraq.

On education, the President cut funding for the Department of 
Education by $1.2 billion. This bill rejects those cuts, investing $4.5 
billion above the President's request to the Department of Education, 
roughly the cost of operating for 2 weeks in Iraq.

On job training, the President cut the largest job training program 
in the vocational education programs by $1.2 billion. He cut State 
grants for vocational education in half. We rejected those cuts on a 
bipartisan basis, investing $1.3 billion above the President's request, 
roughly the cost of 4 days of operations in Iraq.

With respect to medical research, the President attempted to cut 
funding for medical research at the National Institutes of Health by 
$450 million. That would have resulted in 800 fewer medical research 
grants. The committee rejected those cuts, investing about $1.4 billion 
above the President's request, roughly the cost of 4 days in Iraq.

Finally, the Low Income Heating Assistance Program, the President 
tried to cut that by $400 million. We rejected those cuts and invested 
$630 million more than he requested, roughly the cost of 2 days in 
Iraq.

This is a balanced bill. It is a moderate bill. It is essential to 
make these investments, and I would urge Members on both sides of the 
aisle to support the proposal.

I would make one last point: on earmarks, when this House voted on my 
amendment to determine whether or not earmarks should be retained or 
excluded from the bill, this House voted 53-369 to keep earmarks in the 
bill, and we have tried to do that. We have a 40 percent reduction in 
the amount of money for earmarks. It is a 40 percent reduction from the 
amount that this House had 2 years ago.

But I want to make one practical point.



I know there are some people in this Chamber who believe that if this 
bill goes down, if the President vetoes it, that somehow a way will be 
found to compromise and still protect these earmarks.

I want to make it clear, I have been told many times by the White 
House that they have no intention whatsoever of compromising on this or 
any other bill that exceeds the President's wishes. If that is the case 
and if this bill goes down, then the only alternative left to us will 
be to bring in a bill at the President's level of funding.

I would ask every serious-minded person in this body, if they really 
think there is a chance of a snowball in Hades that Members' earmarks 
on either side of the aisle will survive if we wind up at the 
President's level of funding, I think you understand that is not 
likely. And so I think the fate of all of the work that has gone into 
this bill, the fate of every project that Members have been concerned 
about is in your hands.

I yield back the balance of my time.