---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `13ade3552af456b4c54137f3d069f0c1`
`Mr. BRADY of Texas — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BRADY of Texas. Madam Speaker, watching television late last 
night I was reminded of the vivid contrast between Congress and the war 
on terror. On the one channel I watched Members of the House 
theatrically debating this nonbinding, that means pretend, resolution, 
while the other channel showed an American chopper hit by a rocket-
propelled grenade and billowing black smoke, falling in the death 
spiral to the ground, killing all American soldiers aboard.

Tonight our soldiers face real bullets and real explosive devices; we 
debate a pretend resolution. I wish I could say this is merely a waste 
of time, but it is far more damaging than that. As Lincoln warned, a 
house divided itself cannot stand. Yet today our Congress stands 
divided for all the world to see. Our enemies are smiling and our 
soldiers are sick at heart.

Don't take my word for it. Let me read you an e-mail I received this 
week from a decorated Army soldier who served in the gulf war and again 
in Iraq on this war on terror.

He writes: ''The troops support the mission, support the President, 
and support the surge. We are moving the brigade out of here soon. I 
cannot be more adamant about the fact that partisan politics is hurting 
the mission and the morale. We want to win the war not the White 
House.''

I fear that some see that in the other order. The troops want to 
complete this mission. Congress wanted a change in the strategy, they 
got a change, now they don't want to support the change. That is 
exactly why Vietnam vets complained about politicians not allowing them 
to win. And this is not Vietnam all over again, but the politicians are 
making the same mistakes they did back then.

Let the generals run the war; you guys handle immigration. Well, 
listening to this debate, perhaps we should just turn the running of 
the war over to Congress. Unbeknownst to America, apparently the most 
brilliant, articulate military strategists have to be here in Congress. 
But a word of caution to my fellow MacArthurs and Pattons. It is easy 
to run a war when you are 6,000 miles from Baghdad and hold a 
microphone for a gun.

There can be only one Commander in Chief. The moment Congress begins 
interfering in battlefield decisions is the moment we are assured of 
losing this war and that moment is dangerously near.

I support this surge. If our military leaders and the Commander in 
Chief need these extra soldiers, I am behind them 110 percent. Am I 
certain the surge will work? No. But I am certain the consequences of 
failing in Iraq will ultimately cost us many more innocent lives and a 
much darker future, not just for Iraq but for my family and yours.

In Iraq and Afghanistan we are in a battle of wills. Should America 
retreat, should we withdraw prematurely, we will not only cement our 
reputation as a Nation that talks big and acts boldly, but at the first 
sign of difficulty shows no will, no backbone, no strength to keep our 
word.

The world saw our lack of will in Vietnam, they watched us run from 
Somalia, and today they see our backbone disintegrate over Iraq. They 
watched us for a quarter of a century, we wished away the terrorist 
attacks in Khobar, the USS Cole, and the first World Trade Center 
bombing.

Finally it hit home and already some in Congress are flying the white 
flag. Think. Nations like Iraq and Afghanistan who oppose terrorism are 
faced with a choice. They can live with terrorists among them or live 
in a free society with the protection and the backing of the world's 
greatest democracy. That is us. With their lives and the future on the 
line who will they choose? Is it not sad that today the world has just 
about decided that America will not keep its word, America cannot be 
counted on?

Terrorists know that while they can never hope to defeat our military 
on the battleground, they are assured if they just hold out, they can 
defeat us in Congress one opinion poll at a time. This is a test of 
wills, and whether we got here for the reason you agree with or not, it 
is a test. I believe we are here for the right reasons, and it is 
incredibly naive to believe that all of the terrorist organizations in 
the world were conveniently gathered in Afghanistan, like a Rotary 
Club.

We are wrong to pursue terrorist safe havens other than those that 
harbored al Qaeda on the some wobbly theory we should not pursue drug 
cartels other than the ones we believe smuggled in the drug that 
destroyed your child.



Due to technology and financing, terrorists are not limited to states 
and regions, and we have to pursue them. But whether or not you agree 
with how we got here, we are there in Iraq. And the nation of Iraq and 
our Nation have everything riding on the line. Eliminating Iraq as a 
safe haven for financing, training terrorist groups in the Middle East 
is a mission we must complete for our sake.

Thomas Edison once observed many of life's failures are people who 
did not realize how close they were to success when they gave up. If we 
fail in Iraq, we sentence our children to a lifetime of fear, of fear 
of going to the mall safely, going to work each morning and returning 
home safely, the fear of going with friends to a sports stadium without 
being torn apart in an explosion.

If we believe the price of war is high, wait until we endure the 
price of terror here in America. Our soldiers are giving their blood, 
what are we giving them? A resolution.