---
---

# None
## `13ad25382cffddf50fc1ef5023a82070`
`Mr. KERRY — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Madam President, this amendment is a bipartisan amendment 
introduced with Senator Collins, Senator Feingold, Senator Carper, 
Senator Reed of Rhode Island, Senator Biden, Senator Whitehouse, and 
Senator Cantwell.

This is an amendment regarding the impact of global climate change 
and the need for the Congress, as we consider spending money and 
requiring the Corps of Engineers to undertake certain projects across 
the country--it just seems logical as a matter of protecting the 
taxpayers' dollars as well as thinking about the future that we ask the 
Corps to include in their analysis of these projects judgments about 
the potential impact or the real impact of global climate change on 
that particular project.

Now, I am going to speak more about the common sense of doing that, 
why it is important, but I will just say very quickly, if you look at 
New Orleans where we had a breach of the levees as a consequence of the 
hurricanes and the rise of the seas, it is clear that much of the 
infrastructure of America is designed without reference at all to what 
is now happening to climates, to water bodies, to the various 
challenges we face with respect to global climate change. So you need 
to sort of lay out the parameters within which we ought to be making a 
judgment about this particular issue. That begins by sort of setting 
forth the facts. We ought to deal with facts with respect to the 
situation on global climate change.

This will be the first time Senators in the 110th Congress have been 
asked to vote on the floor in some way with respect to this issue of 
climate change. But it is an important opportunity for Senators to 
stand up and be counted with respect to this issue.

All this amendment seeks to do, as a matter of common sense, is to 
ask the Army Corps of Engineers to factor climate change into their 
future plans. By doing that, we are taking a small corrective measure 
to a process that is currently flawed because it does not do that. 
Secondly, we are making a statement here in the Senate about the need 
to finally, once and for all, recognize the reality of what is 
happening with respect to climate change.

The guiding principle behind this amendment is obvious: It is that 
climate change is real and it must be factored into our public policy 
in almost everything we do. If we are going to build buildings, those 
buildings have to be designed to a whole new set of specifications in 
terms of carbon emissions, in terms of energy use, because all 
downstream energy use will have an impact on how much coal and how much 
oil, alternative fuels, and other resources we need to consume.

The fact is that other countries are moving much more rapidly than we 
are as a Federal Government. In fact, the States in the United States 
and cities in the United States are already moving with greater 
authority and determination than the Federal Government. So this is a 
chance finally for Senators to put themselves on record.

Now, you can disagree on what--for instance, former Speaker Newt 
Gingrich and I held a debate a couple of weeks ago in which the former 
Speaker changed his position and agreed that climate change is taking 
place and that human beings are having an impact on that climate 
change. He agreed that we need to act, and urgently. Where we differed 
is in what actions to take, how those actions might be implemented, but 
there was no disagreement about the need to factor this into the 
policies in our country.

As we contemplate these steps we need to take, we really need to 
understand that everything we do here is to inform our decisions as we 
go down the road. That is really the message this amendment ought to 
send, that when it comes to public policy, we understand the warnings 
of our scientists, the warnings of the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change, and we are going to respond effectively at the national 
level.

The fact is, for too long this has been the subject of paid-for 
studies by industries that wanted to resist, but we know that in 
America, many of those industries have changed.

USCAP is a partnership of some of the major corporations in America 
that have come together responsibly to take action with respect to 
climate change. Companies such as General Electric and Florida Power & 
Light, American Electric Power, DuPont, Wal-Mart, many others are now 
responding to the needs of this issue. It would be stunning indeed if 
the Senate somehow stood apart from what the private sector and these 
States and local communities are now engaged in.

Let me summarize quickly some of the findings of the IPCC, the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The most recent report was 
written by about 600 scientists. It was reviewed by 600 experts. It was 
edited by officials from 154 governments. So you have Prime Ministers, 
Foreign Ministers, Economic Ministers, Trade Ministers, Environment 
Ministers, Presidents of countries all across the globe, who are 
engaged in moving forward. Only the United States has remained 
significantly on the sidelines.



The basic facts are these: At both poles and in nearly all points in 
between, the temperature of the Earth's surface is heating up. It is 
heating up at a frightening and potentially catastrophic rate. The 
temperature we know has already increased about .8 degrees centigrade, 
1.4 or so degrees Fahrenheit, and the warnings of the scientists I 
alluded to are that because of the carbon dioxide already in the 
atmosphere, about which we have the ability to do nothing, there will 
be an additional warming as a consequence of the damage that that does. 
So we are locked in, whether we like it, to a warming of somewhere 
between 1.4 and 1.6 degrees centigrade. These same scientists have 
reported to us through some 928 or so peer-reviewed studies. A lot of 
people are not sure what a peer-reviewed study is. After scientists 
have done their study and they have put it out to the public, that 
study is reviewed anonymously by another group of scientists with 
similar backgrounds and discipline. They then anonymously make an 
analysis of the methodology of those studies and of the conclusions 
that were drawn. What is interesting is that all 928 studies have 
determined that human beings, through our greenhouse gas emissions, are 
causing some of the increase of this temperature, and they have 
concluded similarly that there is a tipping point--nobody can predict 
precisely where it is--at which we get a catastrophic series of 
consequences which will then be too late to change.

Scientists are inherently conservative people. They are people who 
make judgments based on facts, as they discern them, through their 
analysis, research, and experiments. They don't make wild 
pronouncements that can't be substantiated. Where there is doubt, they 
have expressed doubt every step of the way. Where something is not 
conclusive, they have said it is not conclusive.

But now in this most recent report, they have reported to the world 
that there is a 90-percent likelihood that emissions of heat-trapping 
gases from human activities have caused ''most of the observed increase 
in global average temperature since the mid 20th century. Evidence that 
human activities are the major cause of recent climate change is even 
stronger than in prior assessments.''

In addition, they have said that the warming is unequivocal. The 
report concludes that it is ''unequivocal that earth's climate is 
warming as it is now evident from the observations of increases in 
global averages of air and ocean temperatures, widespread melting of 
snows and ice, and rising global mean sea level.''

The report also confirms that the current atmospheric concentration 
of carbon dioxide and methane, two important heat-trapping gases, 
''exceeds by far the natural range over the last 650,000 years.'' Since 
the dawn of the industrial era, concentrations of both gases have 
increased at a rate that is ''very likely to have been unprecedented in 
more than 10,000 years.''

These are some of the facts. I will relate more, if necessary, later. 
The bottom-line point to be made is, the opponents, those who say that 
it isn't happening, those who say that somehow we can't be certain that 
this is a contributing activity, have yet to produce one peer review 
study--not one--that conclusively shows why what is happening is 
happening and what is causing it, if it isn't the human activity that 
has been alluded to by these 154 countries and thousands of scientists. 
They certainly have an obligation to do that.

Here is what is most alarming. I have been listening to and working 
with these same scientists since then-Senator Al Gore and I and a few 
others held the first hearings on global climate change in the Senate 
in 1987. In 1990, we went to Rio to take part in the Earth summit which 
George Herbert Walker Bush participated in as then President of the 
United States and signed a voluntary agreement to deal with the 
framework for global climate change. In the 17 years since we attended 
that conference, I have attended other conferences in Buenos Aires, in 
The Hague, and in Kyoto. I have watched while we have learned more and 
more with greater certainty about the impact of this science. 
Throughout that journey of 17 years, I have never heard the scientists 
as alarmed as they are today. The reason they are alarmed today is that 
what they have predicted for those 17 years is happening at a faster 
rate and in a greater quantity than they had predicted.

What is our responsibility as public people? If the scientists, 928 
studies strong, are saying to us, Senators, Presidents, Congressmen, 
here is what is happening, and they say it with conclusive evidence of 
exactly what is contributing to it, I believe we, as public people, 
have a responsibility to listen on behalf of the citizens. It is 
prudent to think about those things that we can do and ought to do in 
order to respond to this evidence.

Here is what those scientists tell us. Jim Hansen is the leading 
climatologist of our country at NASA. He started warning about this in 
1988. Since 1988, those warnings have become more urgent. He now says 
we have a 10-year window within which to get this right. If we want to 
avoid the potential of a tipping point, we have 10 years to act. We 
also know the scientists have revised their own estimates of what the 
tolerable range is with respect to global warming. A year and a half, 2 
years ago, they were telling us we could tolerate 550 parts per million 
of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and that translated to a 3 
degrees centigrade warming that could be allowed before you reached 
this catastrophic potential tipping point. They have changed that now. 
Those same scientists have now revised their estimate based on the 
evidence they are getting as a consequence of what is already happening 
all over the planet. All over the planet you can see the sea drying up. 
You can see the southern portion of the Sahara Desert getting dryer. 
You can see ocean currents shifting, species migrating. In South 
Carolina, they wouldn't have any duck hunting today if they didn't have 
farmed ducks because the patterns have changed. The same thing in 
Arkansas, where it has significantly altered. Hunters across the Nation 
are noticing changes in the migratory patterns of the prey they used to 
hunt. We are seeing 20 percent of the ice sheet in the Arctic has 
already melted and predictions are the entire ice sheet will disappear 
within the next 30 years. The Greenland ice sheet, go up there and 
visit, see the torrents of water rushing through the ice itself. The 
danger of that is, this is on rock. This is not floating on sea ice, 
where the displacement is already recognized in the ocean because it is 
floating in the ocean. This is ice on rock. As it melts, if it melts 
rapidly, it does spill into the ocean and it alters the levels.


In addition, the warming of the ocean itself alters the levels. The 
warming expands the water, and as the water expands, the sea level 
rises and we are already seeing a measured level of increase of sea 
level according to all of our scientists. They don't doubt that. That 
is a stated fact. Sea level is rising.

Are we going to have the Corps of Engineers go out and build a 
project that has to do with rising sea level and not take into account 
how much it may rise, over what period of time it may rise? What the 
consequences might be of a storm that is more intense, coupled with an 
increase of sea level? It is common sense that we ought to be taking 
those kinds of things into account.

The scientists now tell us we can tolerate not 550 parts per million 
but 450 parts per million, and we can tolerate not 3 degrees centigrade 
increase but a 2 degrees centigrade increase. Why is that important? 
That is important because we can trace from before the industrial 
revolution the levels of carbon dioxide and temperatures of the Earth. 
Preindustrial revolution, the levels of greenhouse gases were at about 
270 parts per million. It was about 500 or so billion tons of carbon 
dioxide in the atmosphere. It is measured by taking ice cores which we 
drill. You bore into the ice. You can go back tens of thousands of 
years, bore the ice and measure the levels of carbon dioxide, which 
also gives you an indicator of the temperature of the Earth. We see a 
complete parallel between the rise of the Earth's temperature, the rise 
of carbon dioxide and the industrial revolution itself over those 100 
years.

We have now changed the level of greenhouse gases from 270 parts per 
million to 380 parts per million. That is what we are living with 
today. So if we are living with 380 parts per million


today and over 100 years plus we saw it go from 270 to 380, we only 
have a cushion of up to 450. If we have already increased the Earth's 
temperature .8 degrees and it is going to go up automatically another 
.8 degrees, that is 1.6, we only have a cushion of .4 to .5 degrees 
before we get to a tipping point.

I can't tell you with 100 percent certainty that is what is going to 
happen. But the scientists, the best we have in this country, have told 
us it is a 90-percent likelihood this is happening as a consequence of 
the things we are doing.

If you went to the airport today and got on an airplane and the pilot 
got on and said: Folks, we are about to leave and there is a 10-percent 
chance we are going to get where we are going, are you going to stay on 
the plane? This is a 90-percent certainty what scientists are telling 
us.


We went to war in Iraq on a 1-percent doctrine. As Vice President 
Cheney said, if there is a 1-percent chance that harm could be done to 
our Nation, then we have to be willing to go to war and take the steps. 
Well, here you have a 90-percent chance that harm could be done to our 
Nation, and we are doing next to nothing at the Federal level. That is 
the cushion.

So when the scientists say to us we need to have a response, when the 
CEO of DuPont, the CEO of Wal-Mart, the CEO of 3M, the CEO of General 
Electric, and a host of other companies across our country are already 
taking steps because they recognize this has to happen, and we have to 
respond, we ought to be listening and responding ourselves.

Let me comment that, obviously, in California we already see a State 
taking action. California passed a landmark bill that establishes a 
first-in-the-world comprehensive program of regulatory and market 
mechanisms to achieve a reduction in greenhouse gases.

The mayor of New York is working on a congestion pricing scheme to 
lower emissions and pollution. Today, as we stand in the Senate, he is 
hosting a meeting of the mayors of the world's largest cities, from 
Copenhagen to Calcutta, on how to achieve the same ends.

Recently, my home State of Massachusetts, under the leadership of 
Governor Deval Patrick, has rejoined the Regional Greenhouse Gas 
Initiative. Now you have eight States that have come together 
specifically to try to reduce global warming pollution from 
powerplants. Across the Nation, 500 mayors from 50 States have signed 
on to the U.S. Mayors Climate Protection Agreement, which is an 
initiative to advance the goals of the Kyoto Protocol. Even President 
Bush finally saw fit to mention in his State of the Union Address ''the 
serious challenge of global climate change.''

We know specifically that climate change will challenge the way we 
manage water resources in the United States. It threatens our coastal 
communities and habitats with rising sea levels, more intense storms, 
storm surges, and flooding, especially along the gulf and Atlantic 
coasts. In many places, climate change is going to put added pressure 
on our water resources, increasing competition among agricultural, 
municipal, industrial, and ecological uses.

That is why this bill is an appropriate place for us to have an 
amendment that merely asks for the Corps of Engineers--which is 
federally chartered, and we spend Federal dollars on--to make certain 
what they choose to do is thoughtful about what the impacts may be that 
are predictable or ascertainable.

We know, obviously, what it looks like when we do not prepare for 
emergencies. We had it seared into our memories with the horrifying 
images of Hurricane Katrina. We saw the anguish of everybody who lived 
there and people across America.

The fact is, we are especially vulnerable to changes of weather and 
climate extremes because of severe storms, hurricanes, floods, and 
droughts. Now we need to begin planning for those emergencies that 
global climate change is likely to produce.

Over the last 100 years, we have seen an increase in heavy 
precipitation that has strained the infrastructure we have in place to 
deal with flooding. All across America, combined sewer overflows wind 
up putting raw sewage out into our rivers and lakes, which wind up 
poisoning and polluting those water bodies.

Thirty-nine percent of the rivers in the United States of America are 
contaminated. Forty-five percent of the lakes in the United States are 
contaminated. Forty-nine percent of the estuaries in America are 
contaminated.

In 19 States in our country parents and children are warned: Don't 
eat the fish because of the levels of toxins, chemicals that are in the 
water--19 States. In 44 States there are warnings about specific 
locations where you are not allowed to eat the fish.

So these are the kinds of consequences we see up and down the line. 
The number of days each year now with more than 2 inches of 
precipitation has risen by 20 percent. If we know the precipitation 
levels have risen by 20 percent in the last 100 years, doesn't it make 
sense, as we conjure up levees or other projects to prevent flooding, 
to understand what the likelihood is of the size of that flooding, the 
extent of it, and the intensity, as it grows?

The Southwestern United States is in the midst of a drought that is 
projected to continue well into the 21st century and may cause the area 
to transition to a more arid climate.

The Corps of Engineers stands on the front lines of all of these 
threats to our water resources. They are our first responders in the 
fight against global warming. Hurricane and flood protection for New 
Orleans, levees along the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers, levees in 
Sacramento, CA, and port projects up and down our coasts, east and 
west--these are just a few of the sites that are in danger. All of 
these Corps projects and many hundreds more will feel the strain, 
impact, and consequences of global climate change.

We also recognized, in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, the inadequacy 
of some of the projects in New Orleans that simply did not stand up. 
Just the other day, in the New York Times--Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the article of May 7, entitled ''Critic of Corps 
of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws'' 
be printed in the Record.