# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `13bbde79351aebe3a127aaf867967aa9`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 11 February 2009`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today, I am introducing the bipartisan 
State Secrets Protection Act. I am pleased that Senator Kennedy, who 
had so much to do with developing this proposal last Congress is an 
original cosponsor of the bill along with Senators Specter, Feingold, 
Whitehouse and McCaskill. After a lengthy debate, this bill was 
reported by the Judiciary Committee last April.

The State secrets privilege is a common law doctrine that the 
Government can claim in court to prevent evidence that could harm 
national security from being publicly revealed. During the Bush 
administration, the State secrets privilege was used to avoid judicial 
review and skirt accountability by ending cases without consideration 
of the merits. It was used to stymie litigation at its very inception 
in cases alleging egregious Government misconduct, such as 
extraordinary rendition and warrantless eavesdropping on the 
communications of Americans.

The 2006 case of Khaled El-Masri, who was kidnapped and transported 
against his will to Afghanistan, where he was detained and tortured as 
part of the Bush administration's extraordinary rendition program, is 
one such example. He sued the government alleging unlawful detention 
and treatment. A district court judge dismissed the entire lawsuit 
after the Government invoked the State secrets privilege, solely on the 
basis of an ex parte declaration from the Director of the Central 
Intelligence Agency, and despite the fact that the Government had 
admitted that the rendition program exists. Mr. El-Masri has no other 
remedy. Our justice system is off limits to him, and no judge ever 
reviewed any of the actual evidence.

The State secrets privilege serves important goals where properly 
invoked. But there are serious consequences for litigants and for the 
American public when the privilege is used to terminate litigation 
alleging serious Government misconduct. For the aggrieved parties, it 
means that the courthouse doors are closed forever regardless of the 
severity of their injury. They will never have their day in court. For 
the American public, it means less accountability, because there will 
be no judicial scrutiny of improper actions of the executive, and no 
check or balance.

The State Secrets Protection Act will help guide the courts to 
balance the Government's interests in secrecy with accountability and 
the rights of citizens to seek judicial redress. The bill does not 
restrict the Government's ability to assert the privilege in 
appropriate cases. Rather, the bill would allow judges to look at the 
actual evidence the Government submits so that they, neutral judges, 
rather than self-interested executive branch officials, would render 
the ultimate decision whether the State secrets privilege should apply. 
This is consistent with the procedure for other privileges recognized 
in our courts.

We held a Committee hearing on this issue last year, and the 
appropriate use of this privilege remains an area of concern for me and 
for the cosponsors of this bill. In light of the pending cases where 
this privilege has been invoked, involving issues including torture, 
rendition and warrantless wiretapping, we can ill-afford to delay 
consideration of this important legislation. I hope all Senators will 
join us in supporting this bill.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.