---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `13bdf21deadc446a6f426d613ee5a88a`
`Mr. COSTA — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support H.R. 2956, the 
Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act.

Now, certainly this measure is part of an ongoing effort to try to 
bring comprehensive change. We do have a vested interest in the Middle 
East as we are engaged in this war on terror throughout the world.

Notwithstanding that fact, though, for 6 years, our administration 
has had a blank check in Iraq, and that war on terror, and 
unfortunately, I think, by any critical evaluation, at best it has been 
bungled. At worst, we have made a mess of things. The previous 
Congresses have left little to be desired in terms of real oversight.

With unlimited resources, we have complicated our relations with the 
Middle East, and it's unfortunate for our country. It seems for every 
step forward, we take a step back. This legislation, then again, is 
another effort to begin a new direction, which will protect our 
interests in the Middle East and begin to develop a plan to bring our 
troops home.

What is lacking in this legislation though is a requirement for the 
President to tell us how we are going to, in fact, stabilize the areas 
with all the diplomatic resources available to us and our allies 
throughout the world in this region. Nonetheless, under the current 
circumstances, this legislation, I believe, is the next logical step. 
Clearly, doing more of the same continues to risk precious lives of 
American men and women in uniform, not to mention our Treasury, with 
little responsiveness, unfortunately and cooperation from the Iraqi 
Government.

Hopefully, this legislation will allow the administration to engage 
and work with us for constructive change that the American people 
demands.

I ask for an ''aye'' vote.