---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `13c200bacdc990391a113ed682b63055`
`Mr. ANDREWS — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. ANDREWS. Mr. Speaker, I support this resolution because it 
provides the affirmation and the change that I believe we need in Iraq. 
The affirmation is essentially universal in this House. It is an 
affirmation that we are irrevocably committed to arm, support, equip, 
and protect the troops that we have sent to Iraq. We are committed to 
stand by the young men and women who have made the choice to make a 
sacrifice for this country. That issue is not an issue.

What is an issue is whether American policy is working in Iraq or 
failing in Iraq. I believe it is failing, and I believe that a vote for 
this resolution is a vote for change.

We have frequently heard, Mr. Speaker, from the minority side that 
they would like to hear a plan. With all due respect, Mr. Speaker, I 
suggest they start listening to this debate and to the American people.

Here is how you build a plan: First, you acknowledge reality by 
properly defining the problem. The administration persists in rhetoric 
that defines the conflict in Iraq as a struggle between forces of 
civilization on one hand and the forces which wrought September 11 on 
the other. To some extent this characterization is accurate, but to a 
great extent this characterization is inaccurate.

A significant portion of the violence in Iraq is not the result of 
Islamic violence against American troops, although it exists. A 
significant portion of the violence in Iraq is the result of sectarian 
violence, Shiia against Sunni, Sunni against Shiia, and occasionally 
others against the Kurds. This is not the position of the Democratic 
Party. This is the observation of the military and intelligence 
leadership in public documents of this country. Sectarian violence is 
the principal problem in Iraq.

If the problem in Iraq were that a fragile but legitimate young 
government was struggling to hang on but could not overcome the 
resistance, then this idea of a troop surge would make sense. The idea 
of sending more fighters to defeat the resistance would make sense. 
This is not the proper definition of the problem. The troop surge does 
not send more fighters to defeat the resistance. It sends more referees 
to inject themselves into the violence between Shiia and Sunni militia 
and warfighters. The problem in Iraq is largely, not exclusively but 
largely, how to stop the sectarian violence.

The second change that we must have is a change that vests the Iraqis 
themselves with the primary responsibility and eventually the exclusive 
responsibility to defeat that sectarian violence. Sending more American 
troops to do the job of the Iraqis is not the answer. Insisting that 
the Iraqis do their


own job, defend their own country, fight their own fight is the answer.

Now, the United States should not divorce itself from that effort. 
The United States, in my view, should not immediately vest the Iraqis 
with all that authority. But sending more young Americans to fight the 
fight for legitimacy of the Iraqi Government will not further the 
legitimacy of the Iraqi Government. It will defer it. It will weaken 
it. It will undermine it. There is one way, and one way only, to 
determine whether Iraqis themselves are willing to fight for this 
government, whether Shiia are willing to fight Shiia militia, whether 
Sunni are willing to fight Sunni militia. And that is to let them do 
it, not to give the job to more and more Americans. This is the change 
that we need.

And, finally, we need a change which recognizes that the principal 
problem in reaching a unity government in Iraq is political 
negotiation. Now, this is not to say that diplomats alone can solve 
this problem, but it is most certainly to say that if those who are 
vested in the outcome of this civil war are not brought to a conference 
table, brought to a negotiation, and compelled or encouraged to reach a 
solution, I doubt very much that it will come.

The United States has become the guarantor of the status quo in Iraq, 
and the status quo is failing. The best way to serve the interests of 
the American troops is to engage in the democratic debate for which 
they are fighting. Young Americans are fighting and dying so that 
Iraqis will have the right to debate their country's future. It would 
be sadly and bitterly ironic if we abrogated our responsibility to 
debate our country's future over what they should be doing in that 
country and how long they should be there.



If you want to serve the troops, have the debate. And if you want to 
promote the idea of avoiding failure in Iraq, then change the policy in 
Iraq. Do not sustain the status quo. I believe that if you want to 
change the policy in Iraq, voting ''yes'' on resolution 63 is the right 
first step.

Mr. Speaker, I yield the balance of my time to my friend from 
California (Mr. Schiff).