# None
## `13c486cf60b9d0aab0c5f8979878cc3d`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, in this discussion of earmarks, of course, 
the elephant in the room--and I do not necessarily mean that as a pun--
are the hundreds of billions of dollars of earmarks from the President 
of the United States: the blank check to the war in Iraq; the blank 
check to the people who are hired as contractors, various companies--
Halliburton is one that comes to mind, but many others, Blackwater and 
so on. These blank checks--nobody wants to talk about those.

But every President--not just this President but every President--has


hundreds of billions of dollars in earmarks in the bill. This President 
has had trillions of dollars. That is why this President, who inherited 
the largest surplus in the Nation's history, has turned it into the 
largest deficit in the Nation's history. And it is why? Because with 
the combination of his deficits and his war in Iraq, he is just paying 
the interest on the Bush administration's debt and the war--just the 
interest and the cost of the war.

Every day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year--366 in leap year--we spend 
$1 billion every single day--every single day--in interest and the war 
in Iraq. That is money that does not go to education, does not go to 
finding a cure for cancer or Alzheimer's or diabetes or AIDS. It is $1 
billion a day that does not go to educate our children and our 
grandchildren. It is $1 billion a day that does not go to find a way to 
make sure our schools can start competing again with schools around the 
world. It is $1 billion a day that does not go to paying down the 
national debt.

So those are the earmarks we do not talk about.

Mr. President, I yield to the senior Senator from Florida.