---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `13ce9545b001193dbf5ca0a691981e6d`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 25 February 2010`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Chair, I would like to correct some 
things, because I have been here all day listening to our colleagues 
complain about the process. This is the beginning of the process. And 
it is an important one, one that has not been undertaken in 4 years, 
such that we have not had an authorization bill for all that time.

Now, I am sure that my colleagues know that when this measure is 
completed, and on the other side in the other body, that we will have a 
conference. And many of the discussions that are being heard here today 
are likely to be addressed in that conference report.

Now, I have stated time and again that the intelligence community is 
not diverse enough to do its job of obtaining and analyzing foreign 
countries' secrets. Diversity is a mission imperative. We need people 
who blend in, speak the language, and understand the cultures and the 
countries that we are targeting.

The intelligence community is our Nation's first line of defense 
against the increasing dangers and threats we face around the world. 
From the scourge of terrorism, to the proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction, to hostile governments, intelligence work is often unseen, 
and mostly thankless.

Now, I keep hearing all this talk about Mirandizing people on the 
battlefield. I have a lot of difficulty understanding when that 
happened. I have been on the committee for 10 years, and I don't know 
that that is a methodology that is being employed with any regularity.

I have had the honor and privilege of meeting many of our 
intelligence professionals during my oversight travel as a member of 
the Intelligence Committee to more than 50 countries. I cannot 
overstate how much all of us, Democrats and Republicans, every Member 
of this House and every President that I have known, are appreciative 
and humbled by their service. And yes, I will stand and say that when 
this authorization measure passes that I do support the men and women 
in the 16 elements of the intelligence services and appreciate them 
very much.

I am proud to support this measure for several reasons. It 
substantially increases funding for human intelligence collection and 
counterintelligence activities, tools that have been underresourced in 
the past years.



The bill continues the essential funding to support the critical 
efforts of U.S. warfighters in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan, and 
provides additional funding to address significantly emerging issues in 
Africa, Latin America and elsewhere. And I would urge my colleagues to 
footnote that.

There is no place that I think that we should focus as much attention 
as we have with Iran as Yemen. It is going to be critical for us to pay 
attention to that area of the world.

This bill also adds funds and authorities for language programs. 
Chairman Reyes and I and countless other members on this committee have 
fought this issue repeatedly for us to make progress in languages; and, 
I might add, we have been successful. If you see the new people 
entering the service, if you visit our operational activities, you 
begin to see more and more people that are in the service.

I do have something to quarrel about, and that is, the gays in the 
military provision that allows, among other things, that we're putting 
people out of the service who are Farsi and Arabic speakers because 
they're gay, and I think that's ridiculous in the environment that 
we're operating in.

But we still don't have enough women. We still don't have enough 
Arabs. We still don't have enough North Koreans, and I could go on and 
on.

While the intelligence community has made some progress in hiring 
people with diverse backgrounds, education and experience, including, 
indeed, more women and minorities, this progress has been at a glacial 
speed. The intelligence community has been historically slow to 
recognize the wealth and abundance of talent and skills that reside in 
first-, second-, and even third-generation Americans. We still don't 
have an intelligence workforce that looks like our country. We aren't 
even close.

The bottom line is that we, until we have every segment of society 
participating in the intelligence community, our capabilities will not 
rise to the level needed to defeat terrorism.

I'd like to yield the balance of my time to the distinguished 
chairperson of the Intelligence Committee, and to thank the Members of 
the Democrat and Republican staff on the House Intelligence Select 
Committee.