# IN HONOR OF VETERANS DAY 2007
## `13dc940a797764d9ceca7410ae00493e`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise in honor of the veterans 
who have served so bravely in defense of our freedoms to say thank you 
for your service. November 11, 1918 marked the day major hostilities 
during World War I ended, and was subsequently adopted as Veterans Day 
in the United States. This day now gives us an opportunity to reflect 
on the many sacrifices made by the Armed Forces throughout our history. 
As members of Congress continue to address the needs of today's 
soldiers and veterans, I share these thoughts in honor of those who 
have fought and died for our country.

Earlier this year, I made my third trip to the Landstuhl Regional 
Medical Center in Germany where I met with our brave service members 
who were injured while serving in Operation Enduring Freedom and 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. Repeatedly, I see the severity of these 
injuries and I know that properly caring for our returning soldiers 
demands far more funding than what has been allocated by previous 
Congresses. Since the beginning of our military engagements in the 
Middle East, health care for returning service members and veterans has 
been wholly unsatisfactory.

Under the strong leadership of Democrats, we have begun the process 
of providing the necessary funding to adequately address the needs of 
our soldiers and veterans. In May, Congress provided $5 billion for the 
health care needs of soldiers returning from the Middle East, including 
$1.8 billion for veterans enrolled in VA health care programs. This 
funding will ensure the Department of Defense and Veterans 
Administration both have the resources to provide timely and efficient 
case management services, especially for the young men and women who 
served in operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. In March, I supported 
legislation limiting the number of cases assigned to a physical 
evaluation officer, in order to ensure the utmost attention to 
soldiers' needs. This proposal would also encourage accountability by 
establishing a toll-free number for families to report deficiencies in 
military medical facilities.

As nearly one in three soldiers admitted to Walter Reed Army Medical 
Center presents with traumatic brain injuries (TBI), we will continue 
to target investments to respond to these most debilitating injuries. I 
am pleased Congress provided $900 million specifically for TBI 
treatment and services to soldiers. Additionally, this year the Senate 
has proposed $10 million for the TBI Program, to improve services for 
soldiers' families. I also supported legislation that would establish 
four VA facilities solely dedicated to rehabilitating and tracking the 
progress of soldiers with TBI. In honor of the brave men and women who 
suffer these injuries, I will continue to advocate for increased 
funding throughout the appropriations process for fiscal year 2008.

Congress must also continue to take a hard look at the current rating 
systems for disabled veterans, which many have described as disparate, 
unfair and outdated. Earlier this year, Lt. General James Terry Scott, 
chair of the Veterans Disability Benefits Commission (VDBC), expressed 
concern that the status quo is not meeting the needs of veterans and 
returning soldiers. The VDBC, and the Dole-Shalala Commission formed by 
President Bush this year in response to the deplorable conditions at 
the Walter Reed Annex, both agree that the dual-disability rating 
system through the Veterans Administration and the Department of 
Defense needs a permanent fix. With the commissions' detailed 
recommendations in mind, I will work diligently to ensure a system that 
equitably compensates soldiers with service-connected disabilities, 
while reducing the red tape that so often compromises the ability for 
veterans to receive care.

As a representative to the United States Congress for nearly six 
years now, I have worked tirelessly to represent the interests of the 
active duty and retired military who call the 13th District home. On 
this Veterans Day, let us remember our family, friends and neighbors 
who have proudly worn the uniform. We are forever grateful for their 
service and we will continue to work persistently to ensure our 
nation's veterans will want for nothing.
