---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `13e8ecad430a42975055c2e0b4783321`
`Mr. DeFAZIO — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. DeFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Chair and my good friend for 
yielding.

This bill will end the war in Iraq. This is the first enforceable 
challenge to the President's plan to escalate and continue a stay-the-
course, open-ended commitment to a war, a war that was launched with 
massive deception, and an unnecessary war.

One gentleman questioned Congress' power. Congress' power under 
Article I, section 8 is very broad. We have the ability to modify the 
original authorization for war, and that is essentially what we are 
doing here by saying there will be an end to this war.

A year ago, just 1 year ago this March, the President said it will be 
up to ''future Presidents,'' plural, not just the next one, plural, 
''and future governments of Iraq'' to determine when our troops might 
come home. That is not acceptable.

Our troops are mired in the midst of a civil war. Oh, they have 
dragged out the old, If we don't fight them there, we'll fight them 
here. Well, unfortunately, the Republicans are contradicted by the 
Bush-appointed National


Intelligence Director who says al Qaeda is not looking to have a base 
in Iraq and al Qaeda would be extraordinarily unlikely to attempt, and 
has no capability to attack the United States from Iraq; but they are 
looking to move back into Afghanistan, Afghanistan where we should have 
stayed focused, a legitimate war against the Taliban, al Qaeda, and 
Osama bin Laden. Remember him? Dead or alive; dead or alive. He is 
still planning attacks against the United States of American, and Bush 
wants to mire us down day after day in a civil war.

The Iraqis have to want to end this war. This bill will give them a 
motivation to begin to lay aside their ages' old grudges and begin to 
meaningfully cooperate and coordinate and share their oil wealth. That 
is the only way this is going to end. It is a civil war. They have been 
fighting it for 1,400 years. We need this bill. We need to motivate the 
Iraqis to bring an end to this war, and we need to refocus on the real 
threats to America.