---
---

# ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `13ee576278c78f71cbbecb07be09f1dd`
`Mr. BYRD — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, few subjects weigh more heavily upon a 
President of the United States than the decision to send America's sons 
and daughters into war. Such a commitment demands the clearest of clear 
thinking, including a thoroughly dispassionate assessment of goals--
objectives, in other words--risks and strategies. This is difficult, 
very difficult terrain for any American President, especially when 
faced with conflicting views from advisers, from Congress, and from the 
American public.

I have become deeply concerned that in the 8 years since the 
September 11 attacks, the reason for the military mission of the United 
States in Afghanistan has become lost, consumed in some broader scheme 
of nation building, which has clouded our purpose and obscured our 
reasoning.

General McChrystal, our current military commander in Afghanistan, 
has requested 30,000 to 40,000 additional American troops to bolster 
the more than 65,000 American troops already there. I am not clear as 
to his reasons and I have many questions.

What does General McChrystal actually aim to achieve? So I am 
compelled to ask: Does it take 100,000 U.S. troops to find Osama bin 
Laden? If al-Qaida has moved to Pakistan, what will these troops in 
Afghanistan add to the effort to defeat al-Qaida? What is meant by the 
term ''defeat'' in the parlance of conventional military aims when 
facing a shadowy, global terrorist network? And what of this number 
100,000? Does the number 100,000 troops include support personnel? Does 
it include government civilians? Does it include defense and security 
contractors? How many contractors are already there in Afghanistan? How 
much more will this cost? How much in terms of dollars? How much in 
terms of American blood? Will the international community step up to 
the plate and bear a greater share of the burden?

There are some in Congress who talk about limiting the number of 
additional troops until we surge--where have I heard that word before--
until we ''surge to train'' more Afghan defense forces. That sounds a 
lot like fence straddling to me. I suggest we might better refocus our 
efforts on al-Qaida and reduce U.S. participation in nation building in 
Afghanistan.

Let me say that again. I suggest we might better refocus--in other 
words, take another look--our efforts on al-Qaida and reduce U.S. 
participation in nation building in Afghanistan. Given the lack of 
popularity and integrity of the current Afghan Government, what 
guarantee is there that additional Afghan troops and equipment will not 
produce an even larger and better armed hostile force?

Let me ask that question again. Given the lack of popularity and 
integrity of the current Afghan Government, what guarantee is there 
that additional Afghan troops and equipment will not produce an even 
larger and better armed hostile force? There is no guarantee. The 
lengthy presence of foreign troops in a sovereign country almost always 
creates resentment and resistance among the native population.

I am relieved to hear President Obama acknowledge that there has been 
mission creep in Afghanistan, and I am pleased to hear the President 
express skepticism about sending more troops into Afghanistan unless 
needed to achieve our primary goal of disrupting al-Qaida. I remain 
concerned that Congress may yet succumb to military and international 
agendas. General Petraeus and General McChrystal both seem to have 
bought into the nation-building mission. By supporting a nationwide 
counterinsurgency and nation-building strategy, I believe they have 
certainly lost sight of America's primary strategic objective; namely, 
to disrupt and defang--in other words, pull the teeth right out of the 
bone. I believe they certainly have lost sight of America's primary 
strategic objective to disrupt and defang al-Qaida and protect the 
American people--protect the American people--from future attack.

President Obama and the Congress must--I do not say ''should,'' I say 
''must''--reassess and refocus on our original and most important 
objective; namely, emasculating--I mean tearing it out by the roots--
emasculating a terrorist network that has proved its ability to inflict 
harm, where? On the United States.

If more troops are required to support the international mission in 
Afghanistan, then the international community should step up and 
provide the additional forces and funding. The United States is already 
supplying a disproportionate number of combat assets for that purpose.

I yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.