# HIGHEST DEBT IN HISTORY
## `140a0d47f9758d7cf4ff2563aa092ede`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 20 June 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Thank you very much, Mr. Ryan.

I think what happened here over the last 12 years, and I was watching 
it all from the outside, is that the Republicans, for a very long time, 
vastly overestimated the gullibility of the American people. They 
thought they could stand up here and say over and over again that the 
Republicans are being fiscally responsible, and that the American 
people wouldn't notice that they were racking up record amounts of 
debt, $3 trillion, up to $9 trillion now is the amount of Federal debt 
that this government has racked up. The fact that they wouldn't notice 
that every single dime for this war in Iraq and Afghanistan has been 
borrowed money. I think you give them too much credit, Mr. Ryan. You 
said they were spending like a bunch of drunken sailors. Well, drunken 
sailors spend their own money at least, they probably don't spend it 
very wisely, but their own money. These are like a bunch of thieving 
drunken sailors. They were spending other people's money, my money, my 
parents' money, my neighbor's money, all the while kind of pretending 
that we weren't ever going to have to pay it back.

So what we've seen here tonight and what we've seen over the last few 
days is a Republican minority now that continues to vastly overestimate 
the gullibility of the American people. They think they can stand here, 
try to make disappear everything that happened over the last 12 years, 
and that once again they can stand here and talk about being fiscally 
responsible, while the very mess that we're here cleaning up is all 
theirs in the making.

