---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `140dd39bb20b1e0f9f052fcf4fc8552f`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 10 July 2009`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. I thank the gentleman for yielding to me.

Madam Chairman, I just want today to start by saying most of us in 
our jobs have parts of our job that we like better than other parts of 
our job. Serving on this subcommittee is part of the job that I really 
like, not only because of the importance of the subject, dealing with 
and providing for the members of our military and those veterans who 
have served in the past in the military and, as Mr. Wamp said, those 
who will serve in the future, but also because of the way this 
subcommittee does its work. With the leadership of Chairman Edwards and 
the leadership of Ranking Member Zach Wamp, this subcommittee works 
together for the good of this country. And while we may have some 
objection to the process on how appropriations bills are brought to the 
floor without totally open rules, you will be hard-pressed to find 
something wrong with this bill or some reason to vote against this 
bill. It's just not there.

There are some problems in the Veterans Administration, which is a 
huge bureaucracy, that can't be solved by money. The money that the 
committee has made available adequately meets the requirements as 
proposed to us by the administration.

There is something else that this committee does that seldom gets 
mentioned. And I want to just take a brief comment and talk about--
General Colin Powell was visiting in Europe. General Powell was asked a 
rather critical question that, in effect, the question criticized the 
United States for our arrogance and how we do things that are not good 
for other people. And General Powell thought for a minute, and he said, 
You know, the only thing that we have asked from you in Europe is 
enough ground to bury our dead.

There are 22 American cemeteries in Europe. The subcommittee has 
responsibility to provide funding to maintain those military 
cemeteries, and they do a good job and they are beautiful. And for 
those Members who haven't had a chance to visit them, you really 
should.



There are 22 American cemeteries, graves of 106,757 American soldiers 
who lost their lives freeing the people of Europe from the oppression 
of Hitler's Nazis.

This subcommittee has that responsibility and does a really good job, 
and I am proud to work with Chet Edwards and I am proud to work with 
Zach Wamp and all the other members of the subcommittee and the staff 
who are so dedicated to meeting our mission, to doing the job that we 
were responsible for doing.

As I want to say to our chairman and to my ranking member, this is 
the part of the job that I really like around here. There are a lot of 
other parts that I like too, but I really like this one. Working with 
you two gentlemen is just very, very special.

This bill appropriates $108.9 billion for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for 2010, a 15.4 percent increase in the funds for veterans 
medical and services available this year. This bill funds the expanded 
GI Bill benefits authorized last year by the 110th Congress, it funds 
an additional 1,200 claims processors to reduce the backlog of 
veterans' disability claims, and it expands programs to help homeless 
veterans.

Our subcommittee also reaffirms its longstanding support for veterans 
medical care programs by providing $34.7 billion for VA medical 
services, a 13 percent increase over current year funding. The members 
of our subcommittee also approved a new method of funding veterans 
medical care to ensure that the uncertainty of our legislative cycle 
does not negatively impact the ability of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs to plan for and deliver the best in medical care for those who 
served our nation. In addition to providing funding for VA medical care 
in Fiscal Year 2010, it also provides advanced funding for the 
following year, Fiscal Year 2011.

Our committee also continues to place the highest priority on 
providing the best care and services for our service members who have 
returned from Iraq and Afghanistan and have


been diagnosed with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and Traumatic Brain 
Injury. One of our nation's centers for the treatment of PTSD and TBI 
is the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center at Bay Pines, 
which I have the privilege to represent. Included in the bill we 
consider today is $96,800,000 to build a state-of-the-art medical 
facility at Bay Pines to better screen our returning service members 
for mental health problems and to provide the state-of-the-art 
facilities in which to treat them. The Committee approved my request 
for the design and engineering funding for this project last year to 
accelerate the construction of this vitally needed unit.

We also include in the bill $371,300,000 for a new VA medical 
facility in Orlando that will benefit veterans throughout the state. 
Florida continues to experience one of the largest inflows of veterans 
of any state in our nation. All of Florida's VA medical facilities feel 
the strain of a growing caseload, especially during the winter months. 
The construction of this long anticipated VA hospital in central 
Florida will ease that burden on all the existing hospitals.


Madam Chair, this legislation honors those who wore the uniform in 
the defense of our nation and freedom here and throughout the world. We 
also honor those who wear the uniform today by ensuring that they live 
and work in the best facilities today whether it be on U.S. soil or on 
our bases in the furthest points of the world.

This includes the facilities for the forces leading the worldwide 
battle against terrorism which is being directed by U.S. Central 
Command and U.S. Special Operations Command at MacDill Air Force Base 
in Tampa, Florida, which neighbors the 10th Congressional District I 
represent.

Just this week, I joined General David Petraeus, the Commander of 
U.S. Central Command, to break ground on a new headquarters facility 
that was supported by this committee and for which this committee 
approved my request four years ago to accelerate the funding to begin 
its design and engineering. Our bill this year includes $21,000,000 to 
accelerate construction of a Consolidated Communications Facility to 
support the Joint Components of Central and Special Operations Command 
at MacDill. Communications is critical for both commands to manage 
operations that are underway half a world away. This facility will 
ensure that our war fighters will have the most up-to-date and secure 
communication capabilities for them to do their job.

This legislation also includes $15,300,000 for the Central Command 
Commandant Facility which will coordinate air operations for Central 
Command's commanding officers and support staff to enable them to 
deploy rapidly and efficiently. This is imperative given the geographic 
distance and the number of crises that continue in the Middle East and 
Southwest Asia.

This facility will provide a secure facility to accommodate the Joint 
Special Operations Air Component, train increasing numbers of 
personnel, and store authorized equipment. In addition it will provide 
a Sensitive Compartmented Intelligence Facility to conduct analysis and 
assessments to provide Central Command with accurate and comprehensive 
situational awareness for our forward deployed forces.

Another $7,000,000 is included for a much needed Child Development 
Center to care for the children of our service members who work around 
the clock to support their missions. This facility is designed to 
accommodate and care for the many families of our many working parents 
at MacDill Air Force Base. And $16,000,000 is included here for a new 
dormitory to provide unaccompanied enlisted personnel with safe, energy 
efficient housing.

Madam Chair, this is a good bill. It fulfills our nation's promise 
and commitment to care for our nation's veterans, those who serve; 
those have served in the past, and those who will serve our nation in 
the future.