---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008--CONFERENCE
## `1416e8ac5ff2b6f2848e6e206d7f643b`
`Mr. DORGAN — 13 February 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, we are considering the intelligence 
authorization bill. My understanding is later this afternoon we will 
have, perhaps, a final vote on the bill. There are many important 
provisions in the bill. Many of us who have been here for some while--
from the destruction of the World Trade Center and the murder of 
thousands of innocent Americans on 9/11, where terrorists used 
airplanes loaded with fuel as guided missiles to bring down the World 
Trade Center and attacked the Pentagon and through the subsequent 
period leading up to the Iraq war--know we have had all kinds of 
difficulties with the intelligence community.

We have a lot of men and women risking their lives all around the 
world every day collecting intelligence, and yet most of us have been 
through top secret briefings that we later find out to have been 
absolutely false, wrong, just standing facts on their head.

So it is critically important for this country to have a good system 
of intelligence gathering and good analysis of intelligence if we are 
going to prevent the next terrorist attack against our country.

It is a difficult world out there. We have terrorists who would like 
nothing more than to kill Americans and attack our country. So passing 
an intelligence authorization bill that provides the resources, 
provides a structure for a good system of intelligence is very 
important to the safety and the security of this great country. That is 
what the debate is about. That is what the upcoming vote is about.


But there is one provision that has caused a special concern for some 
in this Intelligence reauthorization bill, and I want to talk about it 
a bit. That is the provision that deals with the subject of torture.

One of the most important provisions in this legislation is one that 
makes the Army Field Manual provisions on interrogations applicable to 
all U.S. Government personnel. Right now, those provisions which forbid 
torture apply only to the military. Those provisions do not apply to 
some others that are conducting interrogations on behalf of our 
Government. That means that some others who work for the U.S. 
Government--the CIA, for example; contractors, for example--may use 
interrogation techniques which may constitute torture and which are 
forbidden in the Army Field Manual. This legislation incorporates the 
Army Field Manual provisions on interrogations and says it applies to 
all personnel from the United States.

Now, why is that important? Because it makes a vote for this bill a 
vote


against torture. It is a vote that says American values and torture are 
not in any way compatible. Voting for this bill is a vote for a country 
that has been looked up to throughout the world because of our system 
of values. It is that simple, and it is that important.

Let me say that I acknowledge today there are tyrants and despots and 
dictators and a lot of evil people in this world and throughout history 
who have used and have always justified the use of torture--but not 
this country. We have not done that, with the exception of some recent 
disclosures I will talk about.

Some people argue that this issue of torture is especially about 
waterboarding. Waterboarding is a more antiseptic term. It should be 
described as water torture. Some people say that: Well, we have 
waterboarded. In fact, it has been disclosed by administration 
officials that we have waterboarded--which is water tortured--three of 
the most dangerous, despicable terrorists who attacked this United 
States, and we only did it at a time when we thought they would provide 
information or had information that would allow us to avoid other 
catastrophic attacks, and we need to be able to do that again in the 
future, if necessary, if some despicable terrorist is planning an 
attack on this country.

Let me talk a little bit about what we are describing here. 
waterboarding is a practice that has been around for centuries, and it 
has been known--widely known--as torture for a long time. In fact, 
waterboarding has been prosecuted as torture and as a war crime on many 
occasions in history. Trying now to claim it is legal, that it is not 
torture, or that it is something other than torture doesn't square with 
the facts. Second, history teaches us that torture is not effective. 
Aside from the question of morality, it is not effective. Those who 
know tell us that those being tortured will often tell you anything 
they think you want to hear in order to have the torture stopped.

The provisions in the Army Field Manual set forth the many approved 
methods to get reliable information, but those methods do not include 
what is defined as torture.

The question about torture is: If you decide that torture is 
appropriate and available as a tool for our country to use, why stop at 
waterboarding? There are many other forms of torture that are even more 
heinous, more abusive: putting people in boiling water, pulling out 
their fingernails, amputations, electric shock. Justifying torture is a 
very slippery slope that doesn't have a pleasant end for a country that 
cares about its system of values. We don't do that and haven't done 
that. We haven't been engaged in torture as a country for a couple of 
centuries because we don't belong to that group of people in the world 
who want to do damage and want to commit mayhem and want to kill 
others. We hold ourselves to a higher standard in this country--always 
have--a higher standard, a standard that all of us can be proud of.

It is interesting when you think back to the Cold War. We won the 
Cold War, but we didn't win it with bombs and bullets; we won it with 
American values and American standards, and American rights. The other 
evening I saw a very large portion of the Berlin Wall that had been 
transported to the United States of America. It was a wall that kept 
the free world out and it was a wall that kept those in East Germany 
behind it, living in oppression, living in a circumstance where they 
were denied freedom. I was thinking again about the Cold War and the 
fact that we didn't win the war with bombs.

I have in my desk something I have had there for a long period of 
time, if I might show it by unanimous consent. This is a piece of a 
wing from a Soviet Backfire bomber. This bomber very likely carried a 
nuclear weapon that would have been used against the United States. 
Actually, we sawed part of the wing off this Soviet bomber because when 
the Cold War was over, we reached an agreement to destroy delivery 
systems. I have also in my desk a hinge. This hinge used to be on a 
missile silo that held a missile with a nuclear warhead on its tip 
aimed at a U.S. city. It was in Ukraine. Where that missile used to 
sit, there are now sunflowers growing. It is now a sunflower field. The 
missile is gone, the warhead is gone. This bomber is now in pieces.

We won the Cold War. And we have agreements with Russia, Ukraine and 
other former Soviet republics under which we help destroy their Cold 
War weapons and delivery systems. But we didn't win the Cold War with 
bombs; we didn't blow up that Backfire bomber. We didn't blow up the 
Soviet missile silo with one of our missiles. We won the Cold War 
because of our values. American values won the Cold War.

What are those values? Well, people are free. They believed what they 
said. They believed what they wanted. The Government had to respect the 
rights of everyone in this country. We were a country that had a 
government based on a Constitution that had a Bill of Rights that 
applies to all Americans. Our country stood for liberty, human rights, 
human dignity, the rule of law. That is what won the Cold War. Those 
values were so strong that in the middle of the Cold War with the 
Soviet Union, those values shone a light of hope into the darkest cells 
and the deepest part of the Soviet Union. In the gulag prisons, in the 
outermost reaches of Siberia, those values reached those cells. 
Millions of prisoners had been held, often in solitary confinement, 
simply for thinking and speaking freely. Many were there for years; 
some swept off the streets, never to reappear again; many tortured into 
false confessions, and many murdered. Some survived, however, and 
talked about their experience, and about how important the idea of 
America was to them, how important the idea of freedom was to those who 
had been detained and had not been able to experience freedom, and to 
those who had been tortured by a country that didn't want them to be 
free. It was a clear and vast difference between America and the Soviet 
Union. As imperfect as we are, the basic foundation and bedrock of 
values in this country is what shined so brightly in the middle of the 
Cold War. It wasn't the amount of bombs and bullets each country had; 
it was what we stood for.


When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, the Iron Curtain was lifted, all 
of those police states crumbled, and every single one of them became 
free countries that provided freedom to their citizens. Every single 
one chose freedom and democracy. That is how powerful the idea and the 
values of this country have been.

What I say today is we have to regain the moral high ground and 
describe our values in circumstances that make it clear that we do not 
subscribe to some things others might. We do not support torture. We 
will not support torture. It is not what our country is about. From the 
very beginning in this country, America has held itself to a higher 
standard. George Washington, leading the Continental Army--think about 
it: 5,000 soldiers in the Continental Army going up against a British 
Army of 50,000 soldiers, and our 5,000 were shopkeepers and farmers; 
5,000 against 50,000, and we prevailed over time. George Washington, 
after a large number of his troops were captured and slaughtered--he 
saw the Hessian mercenaries kill unarmed prisoners. After that, George 
Washington and his troops captured a large number of British soldiers, 
and many of the troops justifiably wanted revenge. They sought to 
execute them just as they had seen done to unarmed American prisoners. 
George Washington refused. He refused to treat the prisoners as his 
soldiers had been treated. He insisted America was different. He said: 
We are different, and we are going to treat people the way they should 
be treated, not the way they treated us, and that has been our 
birthright.

That is why this discussion right now is so very important. It goes 
to the core of what we are and who we are as a nation. Quite simply, we 
have to say unequivocally: We are against torture. We, the Congress of 
the United States, must say that torture is un-American, simply because 
it is. No hair splitting, no fancy words, no legal distinction about 
what might or might not be torture. That will begin to restore, I 
think, our rightful place if we say we are against torture.

Let me briefly continue to say that being against torture is being 
for an America that is better than its enemies. It is that simple. I 
said we fought and won the Cold War after many decades. We faced 
nuclear annihilation during that period. We faced a


ruthless enemy all around the world, and yet we won that war. We did 
that with our reputation, our values, and our moral authority intact. 
It was and still is, I think, a beacon of hope around the world.

Those values and that moral authority, I believe, are what is going 
to allow us to prevail in the battle against the terrorists who wish to 
do harm--not just here but in other parts of the world as well. We 
need--and I believe the world needs--an America that people respect and 
admire, an America that is different, that begins in a manner that is 
loud and clear saying: We do not torture. This will empower our country 
and make us stronger.

I was very disappointed last week to hear the head of our 
intelligence service, and then to hear a spokesperson for the White 
House, say: Yes, we have waterboarded. They used the term--the right 
term--water torture; yes, we have done that. We did it because we must, 
and we reserve the right to do it again. It is exactly the wrong thing 
for this country. It is not just me saying that. I am not just quoting 
George Washington who has established the higher standard, and God 
bless him for doing so. Let me read what General Petraeus said, who 
leads the American troops in Iraq right now. Our most senior commander 
in Iraq, GEN David Petraeus, sent a letter to every Soldier, every 
Sailor, every Airman, Marine, and Coast Guardsman serving in Iraq. He 
said this:




 Our values and the laws governing warfare teach us to 


 respect human dignity, maintain our integrity, and do what is 


 right. Adherence to our values distinguishes us from our 


 enemy.



 This fight depends on securing the population, which must 


 understand that we--not our enemies--occupy the high ground.


Continuing to quote:




 Some may argue that we would be more effective if we 


 sanctioned torture or other expedient methods to obtain 


 information from the enemy. They would be wrong. Beyond the 


 basic fact that such actions are illegal, history shows us 


 that they also are frequently neither useful nor necessary.


That is General Petraeus, who leads our troops in Iraq, and says 
those who believe that torture is appropriate would be wrong.