# None
## `14479e8a34247c987a27ddc342d1298e`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. This is an important bill and a timely bill. 
This is a bill that is due as a gift to the American people on this day 
which is referred to as Tax Day, April 15.

Now, Mr. Speaker, this bill simplifies the Tax Code. It also deals 
with antiharassment. It also deals with making sure that companies who 
do business in foreign lands are not using offshore accounts as scams 
to avoid paying their fair share of taxes.

And most importantly, Mr. Speaker, it deals with the simplification 
of the code and applies that to those people


who need it the most, because so many people, Mr. Speaker, are not even 
getting the advantages and getting their due from paying the taxes 
because of the fact that our Tax Code is so complicated. It is so 
complex. And this bill streamlines that.

Now let me take just a few minute to go through some very salient 
points. The Government Accountability Office estimates that Americans 
overpaid their taxes by over $1 billion a year because they failed to 
claim deductions. This bill deals with that. About a quarter of 
Americans who are eligible for the earned income tax credit failed to 
claim that due to its complexity.

But what this bill does, Mr. Speaker, is it makes the Tax Code 
simpler and fairer. It strengthens the IRS's outreach program to make 
sure that people know that they are entitled to the tax refunds and to 
payments earned under the earned income tax credit. As I mentioned, 
there are 25 percent of households who are eligible for the earned 
income tax credit in 1999 that did not even claim it. And working 
Americans may have lost out on approximately $8 billion. This bill 
corrects that.

And one of the most important measures of this bill, Mr. Speaker, is 
that the American people are tired of the harassment. They are tired of 
the phone calls, the abuse by these private collectors in which jobs 
are outsourced by the IRS to go collect the Federal debt. We have 
talked with the IRS. We have talked with the commissioner of the IRS. 
And he agrees with us that that can best be done not by outsourcing 
these jobs out, but by having the IRS employees collect that debt. 
Personal financial information of our American people is too precious 
and it is too confidential to be in the hands of private contractors on 
the outside.

And just very quickly, Mr. Speaker, we have foreign companies like 
KBR that are working and having millions of dollars of contracts 
servicing in Iraq. But they are using offshore accounts to hide that 
money to make sure that they do not have to pay the important taxes 
that go to Medicaid and to Medicare, not only not paying their fair 
share, Mr. Speaker, and hundreds of millions of dollars, but not even 
allowing their employees to qualify for Medicare and for Social 
Security. This bill corrects that.

And another important area, Mr. Speaker, is the new taxpayer 
protections against identity theft and tax fraud. It cracks down on 
misleading web sites that seek to get personal information by using 
their web sites and imitating and pretending that they are the IRS. Now 
Mr. Speaker, the American people are certainly fed up with being abused 
by these private collectors, being abused by these Web siters who are 
posing themselves as IRS agents.

This is a very important measure. I support this rule going forward. 
This is a very important bill, giving the taxpayers a due recognition, 
making the Tax Code simpler, and making sure it is fair for all. It is 
a good bill. I support this bill rule, and let's pass this bill and 
move it forward.