---
---

# HONORING ARMY STAFF SERGEANT ERIC BYRON SHAW
## `144ab5b5c773a11e13f06161617420be`
`Mr. MICHAUD — 29 July 2010`

---


Mr. MICHAUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
accomplishments of Army Staff Sergeant Eric Byron Shaw of Exeter, ME 
who was killed while serving his country in Afghanistan.

Eric was well-loved by his community, family, and friends. He is 
remembered for his dedication to serving his nation, his generous 
spirit, and his devotion to his family. On June 23rd, Sergeant Shaw was 
killed in action on his third tour of duty in support of Operation 
Enduring Freedom. This loss is particularly painful as Shaw leaves 
behind a young family.

Known for his good nature, Shaw was a 1999 graduate of Dexter High 
School. After high school, he enrolled in the University of Southern 
Maine where he was a member of the Sigma Nu fraternity. As a history 
major with a minor in education, Shaw planned to pursue a career 
teaching history. His close friends remember him as a caring person 
willing to do volunteer work and participate in community activities.

Staff Sergeant Shaw was on his third tour of duty with the 327th 
Infantry, First Brigade Combat Team from Fort Campbell, Kentucky. 
During his service, he received many awards including the Army 
Commendation Medal with one Oak Leaf Cluster, the Iraq Campaign Medal, 
and the National Defense Service Ribbon. Sergeant Shaw will be 
receiving three awards posthumously, the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart 
and the NATO Medal.

In Maine, our communities are known for coming together during a 
crisis, and I know that everyone in the state stands together to 
support Eric's mother, wife and three children, although they do not 
live in the state. Eric is mourned by all as a true American hero and a 
defender of the freedom we all hold dear.

Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring the memory of Staff 
Sergeant Eric Byron Shaw for his patriotism and devotion to his 
community and his country.
