# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL
## `14518531a17d9631ed2454d858ec7d86`
`Mr. THUNE — 12 April 2007`

---


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I serve with my colleague from Alabama on 
the Armed Services Committee. This is an issue he cares deeply about, 
making sure our men and women are well cared for and that they are in a 
position to do the work we ask them to do. It would make sense--I think 
it is fair to say--that the House, knowing they were going to take a 2-
week recess, to appoint the conferees so the important work of the 
conference committee could get underway, so we wouldn't have to wait 
another several weeks to get this legislation through the conference 
committee, ultimately sent to the President, where it is certain to be 
vetoed, so that it has to come back here and start all over again. It 
seems that would be a fair expectation of our colleagues in the other 
body when it comes to appointing conferees for this important 
legislation.

Having served three terms in the House of Representatives, I had the 
privilege during those terms to represent my class as a Member of the 
House leadership. On a weekly basis, I had the opportunity, under both 
Speakers Gingrich and Hastert, to be a part of the process. I know how 
many pressures and how much responsibility comes with the job of 
Speaker of the House. Our Senate leaders on both sides have a caucus of 
about 50 people, thereabouts, that they have to deal with. The Speaker 
of the House has a responsibility for making sure that 435 Members of 
the House of Representatives are moving forward with a legislative 
agenda. There is a lot of responsibility, a lot of pressure. I have 
experienced and seen firsthand much of that.

What I don't understand, however, is where in the job description of 
the Speaker of the House comes this notion that somehow the Speaker of 
the House ought to be going out and meeting with Syrian leaders, 
countries and leadership that are aiding and abetting the people we are 
fighting against, our enemies in Iraq, and trying to conduct foreign 
policy, representing the interests of one of our allies, the Nation of 
Israel, and not only misrepresenting their views but, frankly, 
exercising authority that clearly they didn't give her to exercise. I 
am at a loss to explain why we would be here waiting to conference an 
important supplemental appropriations bill that will fund the troops 
while the leadership of the other body is traveling the world, 
conducting meetings that clearly ought to be in the purview of our 
representation at the State Department and the White House and 
diplomatic corps.

If the Senator from Alabama would like to make some comments on this 
particular subject, I am happy to yield the floor.