# None
## `1460572a3650bbb6bd63122e875943f5`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Ms. Wasserman Schultz, when you think about it, 
you can't help but think about the debate that took place, and the vote 
has now happened. And again, Mr. Speaker, I commend those that worked 
very hard day in and day out to make sure that Members felt comfortable 
in voting for this legislation.

I think it is also mindful for us to remember, because so many times 
here in Washington, D.C., and even when we return back to our 
districts, I return back to sunny south Florida; Ms. Wasserman Schultz 
does the same. Some of us go to the far West. Some of us go to the 
Northeast, where it is very cold and frigid. Some of us go down to the 
Southwest and Arizona and Texas and some of the other areas of the 
great part of our country. Some of us from the gulf coast, some of us 
from the great Blue Mountains.

I think it is very, very important for us to remember that over 56 of 
our men and women in uniform died this month alone, and we are not even 
out of this month yet. Over 55 men and women wearing the uniform, some 
citizens, some non-citizens, some are from the west coast, some are 
from the east coast, some are from urban areas, some of them are from 
rural America. They are not coming back home. Their memory will ever be 
in our minds and in our hearts. And we appreciate their paying the 
ultimate sacrifice. We pray for their families. And we stand on their 
behalf here today in making sure that we can bring the kind of 
accountability forward to this government and to the Iraqi Government, 
and to make sure that those that are in harm's way have what they need 
when they need it.

Also, what is in this bill, and I think it is very, very important 
because I want Members to not only go home and talk about that they 
voted for, the majority of this House, which was good, but for those 
who voted against it, I want not only them, but I want their 
constituents to know what they voted against. This is serious business. 
I have a lot of friends here in this Chamber. I don't know of a Member 
of the House that I have a negative relationship with that I don't talk 
to that person or that person doesn't talk to me. I get along. I am 
second generation here in this House of Representatives; my mother 
served here. But this is serious business when we start talking about 
the sacrificing that U.S. families are making to bring about some sort 
of harmony in the middle of a civil war in Iraq.

So the vote that took place today, Mr. Speaker, is a vote in the 
right direction and in a new direction, to let it be known that this 
House of Representatives is willing to play a role in the oversight of 
the U.S. taxpayer dollar, and also on behalf of those that are in 
harm's way right now.

Ms. Wasserman Schultz, I am glad that she is a member of the 
Appropriations Committee because they spent a lot of time with this 
legislation, this emergency supplemental. It is probably going to be 
the last time that we have an emergency supplemental outside of the 
regular budget process. And speaking of the budget, Mr. Speaker, we are 
going to be debating the budget here on this floor next week. We are 
going to have a great discussion about where our priorities are as 
Americans and the things that are important to the financial standing 
of the country and where we are going to make the kind of investments 
that we need to make on behalf of this great country of ours.

It is also important to understand next week that is tied in with 
this bill that we are going to also consider the Wounded Warriors bill 
that is going to be coming up next week, which is 1538, for 
consideration before this House that I must add that passed Armed 
Services Committee this week with a unanimous vote, to make sure that 
we correct some of the issues that are dealing with our veterans. And 
we are going to deal with H.R. 1401, that is the Rail Security Act that 
will be coming up next week.

This is serious business, and we have to be very serious about what 
we do here. And I want to make sure that this vote will be seen as one 
of the many.

Now, we had a vote, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, about a month ago that 
folks criticized, the vote to say that we are against the escalation, 
against the President's escalation of troops in Iraq. Seventeen 
Republicans voted with the majority of the House Members on that. 
Obviously, 15 of those Republicans decided to vote against the binding 
resolution. Remember all those, oh, it's nonbinding, it really doesn't 
mean anything; why are you doing this? Why are you spending a whole 
week of debate? Even the President said, oh, it's nonbinding. And the 
President said at that time a binding resolution will be coming which 
will be the emergency supplemental. I want to know the House of 
Representatives' stand on the binding resolution.

Well, that message is clear today where we stand. And I think that in 
the Senate, with the passage of the legislation even has a shorter time 
line passed the Appropriations Committee last night than what the House 
is calling for, I think the issue of a time line and benchmarks are 
going to be in that legislation when it goes to the President. Now, the 
President is saying that he is going to veto it. Well, that is all a 
part of his right to do so. But I think the American people and Members 
of this Congress have to rise up. If the President is not willing to 
lead us in a new direction as it relates to Iraq, then we may need to 
lead the President. That is the reason why we have a democracy. That is 
the reason why we have an executive branch and a legislative branch. 
That is the reason why men and women who no longer can walk on two legs 
now paid the price for us to have this democracy that we celebrate here 
today, which I don't take


lightly. That is the reason why this specialist here, that covers the 
page of Newsweek, paid with her legs. She is a patriot.

So if Members or anyone has a problem with the way our democracy is 
working, then you have a problem with America. I am glad that I am free 
and able to stand here on this floor to say that what took place here 
today is a great testimonial to that democracy. And just because you 
said that you are going to do one thing doesn't necessarily mean that 
you have to follow through on it to show folks that you are tough.

You have folks coming to the floor saying, well, by passing this 
emergency supplemental, it will waive the white flag. What white flag? 
Okay. Continuing to do the same thing expecting different results? The 
Speaker of the House took the well here earlier, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
and said there have been three other escalations of troops in Iraq and 
the same outcome is the fact that we lost more troops in the middle of 
the battle, in the middle of a civil war, and that did not turn the 
security situation around on the ground.


What did the Iraq Study Group say? They said that diplomacy is going 
to be the number one key in dealing with this. What did Mr. Murtha say, 
a decorated marine and chairman of the Defense Appropriations 
Subcommittee? This is a diplomacy issue, and we need to make sure that 
the Iraqi Government stands up not only on behalf of their country, but 
for the region and provide the kind of leadership that they deserve.

For every day we are in Iraq, Mr. Speaker and Members, that is a day 
that a U.S. city will not receive the kind of appropriations that it 
needs to be able to provide the quality of life that the U.S. taxpayers 
deserve. It is another day that we won't be able to fully implement all 
the 9/11 recommendations and be able to provide the kind of funding to 
secure the homeland. It means that what we pay now on the debt that the 
Republican Congress and the Bush administration has given us, that we 
will not have enough money to pay down on that debt, just on the debt 
of the money that this country has borrowed, and which is more than 
what we invest in education, more than what we invest in homeland 
security, more than what we invest in veteran affairs.

So I think it is important that this paradigm shift that took place 
here today is recognized as one of the great days of the U.S. House of 
Representatives and moving in a new direction, Ms. Wasserman Schultz.