---
---

# None
## `146e26d3af0a0ee41509ead9d9747269`
`Mr. McKEON — 4 June 2008`

---


Mr. McKEON. Madam Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time.

We have been kind of talking about supply and demand in energy. Today 
we are also talking supply and demand of money. There's unlimited 
demand for resources, but there is somewhat limited supply. And what 
we're talking about in this bill is that the demand is for the Federal 
Government to get involved in local school construction.

I served on a local school board, and I met with a lot of other 
people that served on local school boards, and I know what they're 
going to want to do. They are going to want to turn to the Federal 
Government and take all the money that's available, and then they will 
use that to build the schools, and then they'll find other ways to 
spend the money that they've been spending on schools for other things. 
That's how supply and demand works. You kind of take what's available 
and fill up the gap.

I was home last week, as most of us were, for the break, and I hadn't 
been home for a couple of weeks. I was shocked at what the gas prices 
were, and they went up about 20 cents during the week while I was home. 
And it's all based on supply and demand.

We have had several votes over the last 16 years that I have been 
here in Congress. We voted to explore for more oil in the ANWR. House 
Republicans, 91 percent supported increasing supply; House Democrats, 
86 percent opposed increasing supply.

Coal to liquid is another thing that should increase the supply, 
which would then meet the demand and help lower gasoline prices. House 
Republicans voted 97 percent to support coal to liquid; House 
Democrats, 78 percent opposed that.

Oil shale exploration, which again would increase supply and meet the 
demand and lower prices. House Republicans, 90 percent supported it; 
House Democrats, 86 percent opposed.

This goes on and on and on. What we are saying on our side is we will 
support exploration, conservation, renewable, all sources of increasing 
supply to get energy independent. The other side says we can't do this, 
we can't do this, we can't do this; let's keep buying oil from Iraq and 
Iran and Saudi Arabia and Venezuela and not become independent.



I urge a ''no'' vote on this amendment.