# None
## `147a2ee482dab3eb63dac8567c6e25d3`
`Mr. FILNER — 11 December 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Dr. James Allen 
Veteran Vision Equity Act of 2007.

I was glad to be able to work with my colleagues on the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs, on both sides of the aisle and in both Houses, to 
get here. I want to thank Mr. Rangel and his staff for their guidance 
on the provision that fell under the jurisdiction of the Ways and Means 
Committee.

I especially want to thank our colleague from Madison, Wisconsin, 
Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin, who led the effort for this, who got it to 
the floor today and who will explain it in whatever detail she thinks 
is important.

I note that this bill was previously introduced in the last Congress; 
however, it never became law. I am glad this Congress has the 
opportunity to do more for our blind and vision impaired veterans.

The Dr. James Allen Veteran Vision Equity Act of 2007, named after a 
noted physician and ocular pioneer who worked for over 35 years in the 
VA, would allow veterans who receive veterans' disability compensation 
for impairment of vision in one eye to be eligible to receive 
additional disability compensation for impairment of vision in the eye 
that is not service-connected, where the impairment in each eye is to a 
visual acuity of 20/200 or less or of a peripheral field of 20 degrees 
or less (the definition of ''legal blindness'' adopted by all 50 states 
and the Social Security Administration.)



H.R. 797 also directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to match and compare VA needs-
based pension benefits data, parents' dependency and indemnity 
compensation data, health-care services data, and unemployability 
compensation data with the National Directory of New Hires maintained 
by DHHS, for the purpose of determining eligibility for such benefits 
and services.

It would also authorize $5 million for establishing, improving and 
expanding for the operation and maintenance of state-owned veterans' 
cemeteries. Additionally, the bill will repeal the time limitation for 
States to file for reimbursement costs for interring unclaimed 
veterans' remains, making it retroactive to October 1, 2006.

Finally, this measure extends the authorization of the veterans work 
study program until 2010.

This bill affects an estimated 5 percent of the 13,109 veterans who 
have service-connected blindness or loss of vision in one eye. As of 
September 17, 2007, 1,129 service members have sustained serious eye 
wounds in combat according to the Defense Armed Forces Institute of 
Surgical Pathology (any of which may later lead to blindness).

Also, it is reported that many of the over 4,400 traumatic brain-
injured OIF/OEF servicemembers will likely suffer from serious vision-
related complications and at least 57 percent of all eye injuries of 
this war are caused by lED explosions.

Walter Reed Army Medical Center alone has treated close to 540 
Operation Enduring Freedom/Operation Iraqi Freedom service members for 
visual injuries and over 230 of our soldiers unfortunately have 
sustained legal blindness in one eye.

It is worth noting, that in 2002, Congress passed and the President 
signed Public Law 107-330, which included a provision to correct a 
similar deficiency in the Paired Organ law for hearing loss. In 2006, 
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs held a legislative hearing and 
received favorable testimony on H.R. 2963, a bill similar to H.R. 797. 
In that hearing, the VA supported H.R. 2963.

This is important and meaningful legislation for our men and women in 
uniform--who have fought and are fighting for our country.

I urge my colleagues to support passage of this resolution and urge 
swift consideration of the Dr. James Allen Veteran Vision Equity Act of 
2007 by the Senate before the end of this session of Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I yield whatever time she may consume to the gentlewoman 
from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin).