---
---

# BIPARTISANSHIP
## `1482feafaa877796f3682344e6edf420`
`Mr. ALLARD — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. ALLARD. Madam President, I came to the floor today to express my 
surprise that any Member of this body could attempt to characterize the 
current political situation as one in which the administration is 
failing to work with Congress. Any realistic discussion of today's 
political climate must revolve around the fact that the current 
majority has refused to work in any meaningful way with the minority 
party. The most blatant example of this is in the use of cloture by the 
majority leader to avoid consensus on the consideration of legislation.

In the 110th Congress, the majority leader so far has filed 24 
cloture motions. During the same timeframe in the first session of the 
109th Congress, Republicans had only filed five cloture motions. In the 
108th Congress, by this date Republicans had only filed five cloture 
motions.

Just as surprising were the circumstances that surrounded General 
Petraeus's briefing yesterday. What I found remarkable was the original 
instinct of the Speaker of the House and our Senate majority leader was 
to avoid meeting the general here on Capitol Hill. Can you imagine 
that? The most important issue of our day is Iraq and the man we 
unanimously approved to lead our efforts is not worth their time to 
hear from? The only explanation for this is that the disdain felt by 
the majority in working with the minority and the administration was 
also extended to working with our military.

Of course, once it was clear that there was public outcry in not 
meeting General Petraeus, they relented. But what was also evident is 
there was an effort to avoid actually believing anything the general 
had to say about the situation on the ground. General Petraeus is not 
giving us information that has been filtered through some political 
process. He is giving a factual and sobering account of what is 
happening, block by block, in Iraq.

Yet the other side of the aisle, with a few exceptions, wants to 
cover their ears and not listen to the facts. They would rather pretend 
they know what is going on in Iraq rather than hear it from the general 
again.

The situation in Iraq is a dynamic and ever-changing one, and after 
yesterday's briefing, it is more clear to me than ever that we must 
resist arbitrary deadlines to our fight in Iraq.

But my Democratic colleagues would rather play politics with our men 
and women in the field and score a few points for the far left wing of 
their party. They would rather play politics on the Senate floor than 
work to pass meaningful legislation.

I ask the majority leader and the other side of the aisle to put 
politics aside and do the right thing, work in a truly bipartisan 
manner to do what the American people expect us to do.

This obstruction and unwillingness to work in a truly bipartisan 
effort to provide funding to our troops who are even now in harm's way 
is outrageous and disappointing.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.