---
---

# FIND WAYS TO COME TOGETHER ON IRAQ
## `148d2f0797a5ab6f7688e5fbefee7d97`
`Mr. DENT — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. DENT. Thank you so much, Congressman Israel and Congressman 
Bishop, for helping to organize this Special Order tonight. I think the 
American people expect this much of us, that they like to see this type 
of civil, controlled dialogue where we are trying to rally around, I 
think, some shared principles that we can pretty much agree to, that we 
are talking about this in a proper tone, keeping the temperature down, 
so to speak. And I think that that is what the public expects instead 
of all the sometimes hot air and noise and at times excessive 
partisanship that seems to be the public perception of how this 
institution operates far too often.

And I just want to take a couple of moments to commend you, 
Congressman Israel, on something that you have shared with many of us 
who participate in the Center Aisle Caucus, and that is the idea of a 
Status of Forces Agreement and how such an agreement might be of 
benefit to us in Iraq.

And for purposes of this discussion, that Status of Forces Agreement 
is an agreement that is worked out between our government and the 
foreign country that delineates the legal partnership between the 
troops who are deployed to that country and the host government. And 
that is a very significant issue.

In the civil side of the law, for example, a Status of Forces 
Agreement can spell out proceedings under which nationals of the host 
country may file claims against the United States for damage to 
property of these nationals that has been inadvertently caused by the 
United States Armed Forces. An agreement is also important because it 
can be used to spell out jurisdictional issues with regard to criminal 
offenses. For example, these agreements are often used to make sure 
that American servicemembers who commit offenses overseas and are tried 
by U.S. military courts-martial rather than local courts. They can also 
delineate the conditions under which U.S. servicemembers charged with 
crimes within the boundaries of the host country are treated. A Status 
of Forces Agreement can specify, for example, that a servicemember 
accused of a crime in violation of local laws must be detained on board 
a ship or some other U.S. installation rather than await trial in a 
local jail.

We have never had a Status of Forces Agreement with the Iraqi 
government. I know that is something that you have been strongly 
advocating, and I believe it is high time that we implement one for a 
few reasons. First, a Status of Forces Agreement is an agreement 
between two sovereign nations. By executing such an agreement, we would 
be affirming sovereignty of the Maliki government and the right, as 
well as the obligation, of that government to exercise control over its 
own territory.

Second, a Status of Forces Agreement would send a clear message both 
to the Iraqis and to other countries in the region that we do not 
intend to establish permanent bases in Iraq, I think something that 
many of us on both sides of the aisle agree. And this agreement is 
usually negotiated for a fixed period of time, and it can be renewed or 
not, as was the case with the old Subic Bay naval base in the Republic 
of the Philippines.

The Philippines example is instructive, I think, in this instance. 
There


the Aquino government asserted its sovereign rights over Subic Bay by 
refusing to renew a prior agreement and other related treaties with our 
government in 1992. Thus the world was made to know that even though 
the U.S. had a presence in Subic Bay and a neighboring city for more 
than 90 years prior to that time, that presence was not permanent and 
was subject to an agreement that had to be agreed to by both 
nations. And third, as described a few moments ago, this agreement, if 
properly negotiated, can protect U.S. forces from being tried by 
foreign courts or prevent them from being detained in Iraqi facilities 
if charged with a crime under foreign law. This kind of measure is 
necessary to make sure that Americans operating overseas have the 
fullest protections afforded to them by Federal jurisprudence.


I also really want to thank you again for organizing this, and I 
think these shared principles you have outlined here are really a basis 
upon which we can have further dialogue. And a little later in this 
Special Order, I might want to talk about the Iraq Study Group 
recommendations, the Baker-Hamilton report, that I think many of us on 
both sides of the aisle have a good feeling about, and there is 
legislation that has been proposed and recently introduced, and I will 
get into that a little later.

At this time I would like to yield to one of our other colleagues, 
the distinguished gentleman from Connecticut (Mr. Shays), who has been 
to Iraq 17 times now.