---
---

# HONORING MARINE CORPS FIRST LIEUTENANT SHAUN BLUE
## `148ee745d1f85717c9bb8cdcb9c39b7e`
`Mr. VISCLOSKY — 20 April 2007`

---


Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is with great respect and deep 
sadness that I wish to commend United States Marine Corps 1LT Shaun 
Blue for his bravery in the field of battle and his willingness to 
fight for his country. First Lieutenant Blue was killed in action 
during combat operations near Iraq's Anbar province on April 16, 2007. 
His sacrifice will be remembered by a community that has been struck 
hard by the devastating loss of one of its own.

A lifelong resident of Munster, Indiana, Shaun is remembered by his 
community as an intelligent, determined, and trustworthy leader. As a 
young boy, Shaun was active in the Boy Scouts, and it was at this time 
that his commitment and leadership abilities began to emerge. At 
Munster High School, Shaun was an accomplished student, graduating in 
the top 10 in his class and named a National Merit Scholar. As an 
athlete, Shaun participated on the cross-country and track and field 
teams, where his drive and dedication served as an example to his 
teammates and a source of pride for his school.

Following his graduation from Munster High School in 2000, Shaun went 
on to attend the University of Southern California, where he majored in 
philosophy. Shaun completed the ROTC program at USC with the intention 
of going on to serve as a leader for yet another group of his peers as 
an officer in the United States Marine Corps.

Having been on his second tour in Iraq, Shaun was fully committed to 
serving his country, and those with whom he served had the utmost 
respect and unwavering faith in his abilities. This respect was also 
shared by his superiors, as is evidenced by the numerous medals he was 
awarded, including the National Defense Service Medal, the Global War 
on Terrorism Service Medal, the Combat Action Ribbon, and the Sea 
Service Deployment Ribbon.



Shaun is remembered by friends as being a calm, thoughtful person, 
who was always willing to help others. An avid fisherman and hunter, 
Shaun was the type that loved to go camping, and he enjoyed all the 
wonders nature had to offer. Shaun's qualities demonstrated throughout 
his youth made him an ideal member of the United States Marine Corps. 
Shaun was a leader who consistently exemplified strength, not only 
physically, but mentally and morally as well, and he will continue to 
serve as an inspiration and example to those who knew him.

First Lieutenant Blue leaves behind a loving family. Shaun leaves to 
cherish his memory his adoring parents, Jim and Debbie Blue, and 
countless other friends and family members who will never forget the 
impact he had on their lives. Shaun will be greatly missed by a 
saddened but proud community and a grateful nation.

Madam Speaker, at this time, I ask that you and my other 
distinguished colleagues join me in honoring a fallen hero, United 
States Marine Corps 1LT Shaun Blue. First Lieutenant Blue is an 
inspiration to us all for his patriotism and willingness to fight for 
his country. He paid the ultimate sacrifice for the betterment of his 
country and the world, and his passing comes as a setback to the 
northwest Indiana community, which has already been shaken by the 
realities of war. First Lieutenant Blue will forever remain a hero in 
the eyes of his family, his community, and his country. Thus, let us 
never forget the sacrifice he made to preserve the ideals of freedom 
and democracy.
