---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `1498d02ef8a4d841d01179ca8b0106a6`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, while I am in my leader time, I rise 
today to honor the heroic sacrifice of a fellow Kentuckian, a brave 
soldier who served multiple tours in Iraq. He was also a proud father 
and grandfather who sought to protect the people and the land he loved.

SGT James W. Harlan was tragically killed on May 14, 2004, when a 
suicide bomber detonated a car bomb next to his humvee at Camp Anaconda 
near Balad, Iraq. Sergeant Harlan was a native of Owensboro, KY, and a 
member of the 660th Transportation Company's 88th Regional Readiness 
Command in the U.S. Army Reserve. He was 44 years old.

For his heroic service, Sergeant Harlan was awarded the Silver Star 
and the Purple Heart, among many other awards and medals of 
distinction.

I mentioned that Sergeant Harlan was brave; let me elaborate on that. 
When he was 11 years old, his older sister Doris was assigned the 
daunting task of babysitting young Jimmy. ''Jimmy was mischievous. He 
was always into something,'' she recalls. Sensing a window of 
opportunity to display his courage, Jimmy declared that he would jump 
off the roof of their family's house while his parents were away. At 
first Doris protested, but realizing that his intentions were probably 
only to rankle her, she told Jimmy: ''Fine, you go ahead and do it.'' 
She even went so far as to set out pillows for him to land on. Sure 
enough, brave young Jimmy jumped off that roof, and to this day Doris 
is surprised that he escaped without major injury.

Jimmy's love of adventure carried over into his adulthood. He enjoyed 
the outdoors and would often take his kids fishing and hunting. A 
compassionate and loving father to his five children, Jimmy always made 
sure to spend quality time with his family. ''When everyone else was 
sitting around with their bellies full on Thanksgiving, he would be 
outside throwing the football,'' his brother Kenny Likens recalls.

One of his favorite things to do was to coach baseball with his 
brothers. When he spent time indoors, he enjoyed watching old Western 
movies with his kids.

His sons, James Bryan Harlan, David Shane Harlan and Jacob Alexander 
Roberts, and his daughters, Tara Strelskey and Amanda Prout, as well as 
his two stepchildren, Bobby and Brittany Gray, will miss his caring and 
generous spirit.

Jimmy will also be missed by two girls who might not yet realize the 
extraordinary sacrifice their grandfather made, but who will learn it 
as they grow older. He was especially proud of them. Jimmy often said 
of his granddaughters, Jaidyn Main and Abigail Prout, ''Aren't they 
just the prettiest things you have ever seen?''

Jimmy's civilian career was partly spent as a truck driver. He 
enjoyed the opportunity to work on the big rigs and to see different 
parts of the country. He would often drive with his brother Kenny 
Likens. Through all that driving across the country, though, the two 
never did find a place they liked as much as their hometown of 
Owensboro, KY, where Jimmy was born and raised. When Jimmy left for his 
final tour in Iraq, he was working for the streets department in 
Owensboro.

Having served for two decades in the military and Reserves, Jimmy was 
a seasoned soldier. His patriotism and sense of civic duty compelled 
him to reenlist after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and 
he served two tours in Iraq.

While there, Jimmy supervised truck drivers who transported supplies 
to the troops at Camp Anaconda. His son James Bryan Harlan offered some 
perspective when he remarked:




 Nobody wants to see their father die . . . but to have it 


 be while doing something of this significance, we're proud of 


 him.



 I would like to take this opportunity to say that not only 


 is his family proud of him, but all of America is proud of 


 Jimmy's heroism and sacrifice.


SGT James W. Harlan drove a rig across the highways of the United 
States, and he traversed the desert sands of Iraq. He had an 
adventurous spirit, and his far travels and his exemplary service were 
a natural fit for that little boy who once jumped off his parents' 
roof.

Jimmy Harlan left an inspirational example for his children and 
grandchildren, his brothers, Kenny Likens and DeWayne Likens; his 
sister, Doris Taylor; his step-brothers, Randall Wingfield, Steve 
Wingfield, and the late Michael Calloway; his fiancee, Carol Gray; his 
mother, Doris Marie Gray; and his late father, William Arthur Harlan.

I ask the Senate to keep the family of SGT James W. Harlan in their 
thoughts and prayers. I know they will be in mine.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.
