---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `14a12159617372097714b0ee58ac6167`
`Mr. WITTMAN — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Chairman, I would like to begin by congratulating 
Ranking Member McKeon and Chairman Skelton for their fine work on the 
National Defense Authorization bill for 2011.

Mr. Chairman, the defense authorization bill provides our Department 
of Defense the resources it needs and addresses the committee's 
priorities in supporting our men and women in uniform, their spouses 
and families.

To enable our servicemembers to continue defending our freedoms 
abroad, we owe it to them to provide the best available support, 
training and equipment; and this bill reflects our undying commitment 
to those servicemembers. After traveling to Afghanistan and Pakistan 
last month on a congressional delegation and visiting the troops in the 
field, I know it is critical that we move the bill forward quickly to 
provide them that vital support.

The funding and support in this bill for the wars in Afghanistan and 
Iraq are critical. That support back home is just as critical. I am 
concerned, though, today about the attempt to repeal the Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell policy without listening to our servicemembers first. We are 
currently fighting two wars and asking our men and women to make 
tremendous sacrifices. Now this Congress wants to act without their 
regard and essentially tell our American military members and families 
that their views do not count.

We have only been given 5 minutes to debate this policy which will 
affect millions of American servicemembers and their families. Surely 
the American people and the military deserve more, especially as we 
head into the Memorial Day weekend intending to honor our 
servicemembers.

Furthermore, we heard from all the service branch chiefs yesterday 
asking Congress not to support this amendment and wait for the study 
next year. I believe Congress must make a fully informed decision, and 
the Department of Defense must provide Congress a full and complete 
report on the ramifications of changing the current law or whether a 
change is necessary. We owe that much to our military personnel to 
listen to them and to wait for the completion of a study next year.