# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `14a548caf349342254c72ef0443972cc`
`Mr. KERRY â€” 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, history has proven it was a mistake to give 
this President the power to go to Iraq, and I believe history will 
prove it is a mistake to give him the open-ended power that this 
supplemental bill leaves in his hands. This war is not what this 
President says it is. I believe we have an obligation not to vote for 
the continuation of a policy that empowers the President to simply 
continue the war at his discretion. I have listened to some of my 
colleagues and others who have suggested that this bill will somehow 
change the course. I have to respectfully disagree. This bill does not 
provide a strategy worthy of our soldiers' sacrifice. Instead it 
permits more of the same, a strategy that relies on sending American 
troops into the alleys and back roads of Iraq to referee a deadly civil 
war.

Instead of the same misguided strategy, I believe we had an 
opportunity. While I understand the votes and I understand the threat 
of veto, and I am not new to this process, I still believe we had an 
opportunity to elicit a legitimate, fundamental change and some 
commitments from this administration with respect to the way in which 
we would hold Iraqis accountable and the way in which this 
administration itself would be held accountable.

I say with all due respect, that is what the American people voted 
for in November 2006. That is what they have a right to expect from 
this Congress. The fact is, we could show our support for our troops in 
many different ways in this legislation. I don't believe the only way 
to show that support is by letting the President have full discretion 
to continue to do what the President has been doing for these last 
years. I believe the way you do it is by requiring--and setting up real 
measurements with real consequences--the Iraqis to stand up for Iraq. I 
am convinced, because the last years have proven it, the President is 
wrong to keep suggesting we will stand down when they stand up. I 
believe they will not stand up until we stand down. That is the 
reality.

The fact is, the benchmarks in this supplemental are not meaningful 
benchmarks. The President has a complete waiver. All we require is a 
report, a certification from the President. Is there anybody here, 
based on the statements the President has made for the last 5 years, 
who doesn't know exactly what the President is going to say with 
respect to progress? All we require is that there be some measurement 
of ''progress.''

Let me say very clearly, because I have been there before in this 
argument, I know what happens when you vote in a way that people can 
easily try to pick up and construe as a vote other than what it is. 
There is good in this supplemental. Yes, we need money for readiness 
for troops, and every single one of us wants our troops to be as ready 
as they can be. Yes, it is good that there is money for care for 
veterans, and our veterans deserve the best care in the world. In fact, 
the money available in this bill is a far cry from the real needs of 
our veterans with respect to mental health, outreach centers, the 
veterans centers, the VA, care in the hospitals. That could be a great 
deal stronger. But we are for that. We are also for the money for 
Katrina. So let me make it clear to anybody who wants to try to distort 
this vote: I am in favor of the money for readiness. I am in favor of 
giving our troops all the care they need and deserve. I am in favor of 
money for support for Katrina.

But the fundamental gravamen of this bill, the heart of this bill, is 
the strategy with respect to the war in Iraq. The heart of this bill 
are the consequences that we invite as a result of our votes.

In the last week or two, I have been to three funerals, one funeral, 
the son of a man who was opposed to the war, a military man, a West 
Pointer, a man


who gave his career, but he is opposed to this war. He dared to use the 
word to me in a conversation on the very day that his son was being 
buried about how it was important for us to redouble our efforts in the 
Senate to bring this to a close, how it was important for us not to 
allow these young men and women to have their lives ''wasted,'' a word 
that if any politician used, we would be pilloried for. But the father 
of a man who was being buried used that word on the very day his son 
was being buried. Another funeral I attended with a father who was 
overcome from emotion speaking from the pulpit, left the pulpit, came 
down, stood beside his son's coffin and said: I have to talk beside my 
son. He put his hand on the coffin and talked to us about his son's 
pride, his son's patriotism, his son's love of his fellow soldiers, his 
son's and his commitment to what he was doing personally but, 
obviously, the agony they feel over a war that so many people don't 
support.

We have a responsibility with respect to those young men and women, 
with respect to those families. I believe that responsibility is not 
met when you give the President the very same power to continue on a 
daily basis what he has been doing for these last years. There isn't 
one person in this body who doesn't know what this President is going 
to say with respect to progress. How many times have we heard, in the 
midst of this war, Vice President Cheney come out: We are making 
progress. The President yesterday talked about progress, even as he 
mischaracterizes what this war is about, talking principally about al-
Qaida, when all of us know this war is principally a civil war, a 
slaughter now between Shia and Sunni over the political spoils of Iraq. 
Our presence is empowering that.


A few days ago, we set a new strategy, forcing Iraqis to do what only 
Iraqis can do. We gave the President the full discretion to leave the 
troops necessary to complete the training of Iraqi security forces, to 
chase al-Qaida and protect U.S. forces and facilities. In the sixth 
year of this war, which we will reach by next year, it seems to me fair 
that we should expect that Iraqis can assume that responsibility. The 
Iraqi Government has said they can. The Iraqi Parliament has said they 
don't want us there. Our own CIA tells us our presence is creating more 
terrorists, that we are creating a bigger target. We have become a 
recruitment tool for fundraising by al-Qaida out of Pakistan and 
Afghanistan. We now know that al-Qaida is using our presence in Iraq to 
raise money and recruit jihadists around the world. This policy is 
counter to the best security interests of our Nation.

This vote is a vote about those best security interests. We demanded 
a little while ago a strategy of real benchmarks. There is not in this 
supplemental one benchmark that can be enforced, not one. I don't 
disagree with the benchmarks themselves. Yes, we want an oil deal. But 
I listened to Secretary of State Rice in front of our committee months 
ago say: The oil deal is just about to be approved, right around the 
corner.

It hasn't even been put to the Parliament. It is not approved months 
later and too many lives lost later because of the procrastination of 
Iraqi politicians. How do you say to an American family that their son 
or daughter ought to give up their life so Iraqi politicians can spin 
around and play a game between each other at our expense?

It is unconscionable. It is bad strategy. It is bad policy. It defies 
common sense. That is what this vote is about: why and when we, as a 
Congress, are going to insist--now, I understand they do not want the 
deadline, and the President insists he is not going to have the 
deadline, notwithstanding--notwithstanding--we gave the President full 
discretion to leave troops there to complete the training, to leave 
troops to chase al-Qaida, to leave troops there to protect American 
facilities and forces.

Those kids we are burying deserve an honest debate, not a debate 
where people come to the floor and say: Oh, these are the cut-and-run 
folks. These are the folks who are looking for defeat. It is an insult 
to any Member of the Senate to suggest somebody is actively looking for 
defeat. We have a different way of finding success. As Thomas Jefferson 
said: Dissent is the highest form of patriotism. Even the patriotism of 
people who offer a different road has been questioned. Well, not any 
longer, and I have no fear about casting this vote against this because 
this is the wrong policy for Iraq. This continues the open-ended lack 
of accountability. This allows the President to certify whatever the 
President wants, to waive whatever the President wants.

I promise my colleagues, we will be back here in September having the 
same debate with the same benchmark questions, and they will not have 
moved in their accountability. Even the strategy is still changing.

Let me ask my colleagues something: When can you remember in American 
history hearing about a President of the United States casting about to 
find a general to act as the czar for a war, where four four-star 
generals said no to the President?

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for 1 additional minute.