---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008--CONFERENCE
## `14b6b654fe31cee8b0d2abd5906827d4`
`Mr. WARNER — 13 February 2008`

---


Mr. WARNER. Fine. That is under the control of the distinguished 
Senator from Missouri, and I will ask for such time as I may need at 
this point.

I have always considered myself, here in the Senate, to be most 
fortunate for the various assignments I have had through this being my 
30th year. There have been periods when I have served on the 
Intelligence Committee. I was once the ranking member of the 
Intelligence Committee. Then, fortunately, I was selected to go back on 
the Intelligence Committee several years ago. It has been a part of my 
overall service to the Senate, and indeed to the Nation, to be on that 
committee.

I was at first introduced to the world of intelligence in 1969 when I 
was fortunate enough to go to the U.S. Department of Defense at the 
Pentagon and serve the Navy, first as Under Secretary and then 
Secretary. So I have actively been involved in the work of the 
intelligence community for some many years.

I am greatly concerned that we have before us today a piece of 
legislation which, even though a member of the committee and even 
though I worked with my colleagues to frame this legislation, I will 
have to vote against because of the actions that took place in the 
conference committee where an out-of-scope provision was put in--for 
the best of intentions, I am sure, but it wasn't carefully thought 
through, in my judgment, because this provision would say that 
henceforth, the CIA and the Federal Bureau of Investigation would have 
to conduct their interrogation procedures in accordance with the Army 
Field Manual.

I was privileged again to be one of a group of a small number of 
Senators who, in the year 2005, worked on the Detainee Act and then 
subsequently, in 2006, worked on other legislation to try to delineate 
carefully the responsibilities of various agencies and departments of 
our Government as it related to the all-important collection of our 
intelligence and a part of that collection procedure being the 
interrogation


of detainees. Now, we decided, after a lot of careful deliberation of 
the 2005 act, that we would restrict that to the men and women in the 
Armed Forces.

There was a very good reason for that. In the course of our conflicts 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, detainees came into the possession of our 
field forces, operating in combat conditions most of the times when 
these detainees were caught, and relatively, so to speak, while the 
military people are magnificently trained throughout their careers to 
deal with these situations of combat and the like, very few of them 
have had the opportunity to get into the profession of interrogation. 
In order to give them the protection they needed in performing 
interrogation at what we call the field and tactical level, it was 
important to draw up this act and to prescribe very clearly for the men 
and women in uniform--I repeat that: only for the men and women in 
uniform--very clearly the procedures they must follow to accord the 
values of our framework of laws, the fact that this is not a nation 
that stands for torture, and to also give them protection in the event 
that somehow they were challenged in a court of law, be it a military 
court or other courts, as to their performance by virtue of their 
interrogating activities of certain detainees. So there were many 
reasons to put it all down and say that this is the Army Field Manual, 
prescribe the authorized techniques, and therefore allow the men and 
women of the Armed Forces to continue their operations militarily, 
tactically, and to follow that field manual in such instances where it 
is necessary to interrogate detainees.

But in the course of that debate--and understandably and I think 
quite properly--attention was given to whether we should have this type 
of procedure applicable to all the Government agencies and departments 
of our Federal Government. The decision was made, and the answer was 
no--not quickly, no; it was a deliberate no reached after a lot of 
careful consideration--that this Detainee Act should be for the purpose 
of our military people, and we purposely did not include the CIA and 
the FBI. As time evolved into 2006, when we had that legislation, once 
again we reiterated we would not include either the CIA or the DIA and 
then in any way at that time legislate their program, other than to say 
that the conduct of the CIA program and the FBI program has to be in 
total compliance with all the laws of our land, which in no way 
sanctioned abusive treatment, torture or those sorts of things. It is 
not a part of it.

Furthermore, that both the procedures by the CIA and the FBI had to 
be in compliance with the treaties, the treaty obligations we have, 
particularly article 3, common article 3, which has been debated so 
carefully on the floor of the Senate.

So, in effect, what we have before us momentarily in this vote is 
overruling the decisions that were made by this body in the context of 
drawing up those two statutes, one in 2005 and one in 2006. So I, for 
that reason, feel very strongly that I cannot support this. I think it 
has been indicated that the President doesn't support it and that if 
this were to arrive at his desk, in all probability, we would have a 
veto, and that would be regrettable because a lot of work has been put 
into this bill. There are portions of it that the distinguished Senator 
from Arizona, Mr. Kyl, talked about which hopefully can be corrected. 
But we need an Intelligence bill. We have marvelous staff in the Senate 
and others who work on this problem of legislation year after year, and 
we are long overdue to have an Intelligence bill. It is unfortunate 
that in the last throes of the legislative process, in a conference, 
this provision, which we clearly know to be out of scope, was put into 
the bill, and it is for that reason that I will have to oppose the 
bill.

There is another reason I would have to oppose it, and that is that 
the Army Field Manual, again, was for the military, but it is a manual. 
Certainly, under the current way it is framed and put together in the 
law, a manual can be changed. So while there are some 19 techniques 
that are detailed as approved for the use of our troops in the field 
and elsewhere, who is to say they couldn't add some more and that at 
that point Congress is not involved. So I am not sure people thought 
through the technical aspects of this thing, and to me, it is a very 
unwise decision.

But I wish to reiterate to our colleagues that by virtue of taking 
the stance I take--and I presume a goodly number of individuals will 
join in this, unfortunately, and vote against this bill--this is not to 
say, in any way, that we are sanctioning that the Agency, the CIA, 
employ techniques which are in any way constituted as abusive treatment 
of human beings or torture or degrading.

All of that is carefully spelled out in the framework of the laws of 
2005 and 2006, and it cannot be done by the agency, nor the FBI--nor 
are they doing it. The Intelligence Committee has had a series of 
hearings. We have had the DNI, the Director of the CIA, the head of the 
FBI, and all of them have been carefully questioned and are on record 
saying that these procedures, which would be tantamount and 
antithetical to our laws of 2005 and 2006 are not employed now, and 
they will not be in the future.

It is for that reason that I will have to oppose this bill. I urge my 
colleagues to do likewise because we will be taking away from the 
agencies the ability to perform a very limited number of 
interrogations, a very limited number--but they do them in an entirely 
different framework of circumstances, environment, than does the Army 
or other military members of our Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine 
Corps under the Army Field Manual.

The techniques applied by the CIA are in compliance with the laws, 
but they are not all written up so that a detainee knows full well that 
if they are apprehended, they will be subjected to the interrogation 
procedures of the agencies; he would know all about it if it is written 
up as it is in the Army Field Manual. That would take away a good deal 
of the psychological impact of highly skilled interrogating procedures. 
We are about to throw those away, abandon them.

This is a very dangerous and complex world. I sometimes think, in the 
course of this political campaign, as I listen to my good friends--
three of them Members of this Chamber--vying for the Presidency of the 
United States, the awesome framework of complex situations that is 
going to face the next President of the United States. I must say, I 
have a few years behind me, and I have seen a good bit of history in 
this country, but never before has the next President, whoever it may 
be--never before have they faced such an awesome, complex situation in 
the world that is so fraught with hatred and terrorism and threats to 
the basic freedoms of our Nation and many other nations.

It is going to be a real challenge for that next President to 
shoulder the responsibilities of Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces 
of the United States. And this set of procedures that we presently have 
in place, which complies with the law of our land, which complies with 
international treaties, must be left intact to enable the Intelligence 
Committee to conduct their interrogations and do so to produce facts 
which could very well save this Nation and facts that are, every day, 
helping to save the men and women of the Armed Forces in uniform 
wherever they are in the world--primarily in Iraq and Afghanistan--as 
they pursue their courageous responsibilities on behalf of us here at 
home.

I yield the floor.