---
---

# NEBRASKA ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS
## `14cff51a74e201757e498a52f2c38df0`
`Mr. JOHANNS — 7 May 2009`

---

 Mr. JOHANNS. Madam President, today I wish to commemorate the 
75th anniversary of the founding of the Omaha District of the Army 
Corps of Engineers in Omaha, NE.

From its original mission in the 1930s working on flood control 
projects on the Missouri River, including the building of the Fort Peck 
Dam, to its contemporary work in support of our Nation's military 
mission in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Omaha District has served the 
citizens of the State of Nebraska and the United States of America with 
pride and distinction.

I especially note the contribution that the Corps has made every day 
since its inception managing and protecting Nebraska's precious water 
resources. Without the dedicated efforts of all of the men and women of 
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Omaha District, citizens in the State 
of Nebraska would: (1) be vulnerable to extensive flooding, (2) lack 
abundant recreational opportunities and preservation of critical 
wildlife habitat, and (3) face much higher electric energy bills. It is 
estimated that as a result of the work of the Omaha District of the 
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, more than $25 billion of property damage 
due to flooding has been averted during its distinguished history.

I also note with extreme pride the important contribution that the 
Omaha District has made over the years to the success of our Armed 
Forces. The Omaha District was responsible for the construction of what 
later became known as Offutt Air Force Base. Offutt Air Force Base was 
the home of the Glenn L. Martin Co. Bomber Plant, which manufactured 
the B-29 ''Superfortress'' and the B-26 ''Marauder'' airplanes. Other 
more recent noteworthy projects have included work on the North 
American Air Defense Command headquarters at Cheyenne Mountain, 
construction of various missile controls and launch facilities 
throughout the Midwest, building of hangar facilities for B-2 
''Stealth'' bombers, and other important projects for military purposes 
in Nebraska and for foreign deployments.

Again, I thank the thousands of Omaha District employees who have 
dedicated their careers to serving the military and civilian needs of 
the State of Nebraska and the United States of America.
