# VETERAN VOTING SUPPORT ACT
## `14d4d5c9aa321bc5da79ef2d62bfcd51`
`Ms. WATSON — 17 September 2008`

---


Ms. WATSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6625, the 
Veteran Voting Support Act.

In May of 2008, the Department of Veterans Affairs passed Directive 
2008-25 that prohibited third party nonpartisan voting rights groups 
from holding voter registration drives on VA grounds. Outraged by this 
stance that the VA had taken, I, along with 54 of my colleagues, 
including Chairman Brady and Chairman Filner, sent two letters to VA 
Secretary James Peake requesting he overturn the policy.

As we returned from the August recess, on September 9, 2008, the VA 
passed a new policy directive, 2008-53. The new directive now allows 
State and local election officials and nonpartisan groups to give 
veterans access to their fundamental right to vote. We applaud the VA 
for overturning its previous directive, and I believe it is a step in 
the right direction. But the new policy still falls short of providing 
veterans complete access to voting in VA facilities. So H.R. 6625 will 
fix that problem.

The Veteran Voting Support Act would designate VA facilities as voter 
registration agencies under section 7 of the National Voter 
Registration Act of 1993 which requires public assistance organizations 
provide voter registration opportunities by offering information 
related to requesting an absentee ballot, making absentee ballot 
applications available, and require the VA to work with elected 
officials to ensure the delivery of absentee applications and absentee 
ballots.

Currently, our Nation is fighting wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and 
as a consequence, our veterans are returning home with catastrophic 
injuries that require them to reside in a VA facility for extended 
periods of time to receive treatment for their wounds. This is why it 
is absolutely imperative that we give the selfless stewards of the 
Constitution complete access to voting in our elections. It is because 
of the sacrifice of men and women in the Armed Forces why we are free.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank Chairman Brady and Chairman Filner 
for working with me on the legislation, and I urge my colleagues to 
support H.R. 6625.