---
---

# DECEPTIVE PRACTICES AND VOTER INTIMIDATION PREVENTION ACT OF 2007
## `14d578aca8674a83add1ce7f2fc9e87c`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the chairman and my 
colleagues Mr. Holt from New Jersey, Mr. Becerra from California, Mr. 
Honda from California and Mr. Ellison from Minnesota in joining me in 
sponsoring this legislation and bringing it to the floor today.

Mr. Speaker, I remember when we had this legislation in the full 
committee by Chairman Conyers. About a week earlier than that, I had 
taken my 10-year-old down to Selma for the anniversary of the March 
over the bridge. It was his birthday gift, and we went on that march 
with John Lewis. And through the museums we walked through, my son and 
I were reminded of how the State was used to intimidate voters from 
exercising their right to vote. America reached out and widened the 
circle of democracy by ensuring that those who wanted to exercise their 
right to vote had a chance to vote.

That week, when I came back from Selma, we were in the full committee 
marking up this legislation. What had happened, and I noted then in the 
committee and others had noted, and it was not unique, was that the 
baton of intimidation had been transferred from the State to parties. 
They intimidated voters using leaflets to falsify voting places, days 
of voting and what information was required to vote. Phone calls had 
been used, all types of information, to basically dissuade Americans 
from exercising their right to vote. Through the 1950s, 1940s, 1930s, 
et cetera, that was the voice of our State governments and apparatus, 
to intimidate voters.

That insane act of intimidation, in communities across America and 
neighborhoods, now that baton had been passed to State parties, who 
were doing the same thing, suppressing people's right to exercise their 
right to vote.

Three years ago in this hall in the President's State of the Union, 
he recognized a young woman from Iraq who voted. She held up her purple 
finger. Colleagues, on the Republican side of the aisle, they also 
marked their finger purple, recognizing the importance of voting. Iraq 
and the people of Iraq, Sunni, Shia and Kurd, had taken that step of 
courage and voted. She came here in the State of the Union in this 
hall, the hall of democracy that people around the world look at, and 
said, you protected our right to vote.

This legislation is intended to ensure that individuals do not 
receive phone calls lying and deceiving about where they vote; they do 
not receive leaflets telling them they need other information than they 
properly need to vote; and, most importantly, that the location of 
where they are voting had been changed, when it never had been changed, 
all in an attempt to suppress the voting by individuals across 
communities and to depress the turnout of people who wanted to vote on 
Election Day.

The chairman of the committee noted other things we have to do, like 
a paper trail for voting to ensure the integrity on election day.

This legislation ensures that if you try to use acts of intimidation 
to deprive people of the right to vote, the United States Government, 
with the full force of its laws, will say there is a higher penalty and 
you will pay a price for that act of deception.

I commend Members on both sides of the aisle for bringing up this 
legislation. It is bipartisan in nature and in its finest sense it 
speaks to the voice of democracy. Whatever our policy differences on 
other subjects, we ensure that when people want to vote, they have a 
right to vote, and that the agencies of both our parties and our 
government don't try to intimidate people from exercising that right, 
but encourage them to vote.

That is what the Act here is. I am proud that this legislation not 
only receives bipartisan support, but wide support across both parties, 
because it speaks to what is so appropriately the American way and what 
is right about voting.

Mr. Speaker, nothing is more American than voting and nothing could 
be more un-American than deceiving one from taking the right to vote.

I want to thank the chairman for bringing this legislation to the 
floor today.