# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `14dd301a066c173ab25554f16a5cf0c8`
`Mrs. LOWEY — 25 April 2007`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the conference report 
on H.R. 1591 and commend Chairman Obey for your efforts to protect our 
troops, respect the wishes of the American people, and preserve our 
Nation's interest in this bill.

Our troops have served with honor and courage. However, they should 
be deployed only when battle ready and with a clear and achievable 
mission. Neither is the case today in Iraq. Recent reports indicate the 
troop surge is not working. The number of casualties rose again in 
March, and this bloody trend continues.

We have heard from this administration that it is not willing to 
negotiate on Iraq. Frankly, their unwillingness to compromise has led 
us to this point, and the right of the American people to be heard is 
nonnegotiable. No amount of American blood or treasure can help Iraq if 
the Iraqis don't help themselves.



The Maliki government must exhibit the political will to confront 
extremists, to give all segments of society a stake in Iraq's future, 
and to put Iraqi revenues towards the hard task of reconstruction. That 
is why this bill asks the President to certify that the Iraqis are 
doing their part in meeting critical benchmarks.

In addition, I am pleased the conference report includes nearly $200 
million in increased funding for Afghanistan, $80.3 million for Jordan, 
$45 million for Liberia, $769 million for Lebanon, much needed 
assistance for Sudan and Somalia, increased funding for disaster and 
refugee aid to Iraq, increased accountability through funding expanded 
mandates for the special Inspector General and the State and USAID IG 
operations.

While this bill provides most of the funding requested by the 
President, it puts in place safeguards and oversight to stop waste, 
fraud and abuse with U.S. taxpayer dollars in Iraq.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.