# SERGEANT AARON HENEHAN
## `14ec899bb845d73b373fb9b29c3231ad`
`Ms. MURKOWSKI — 18 December 2007`

---

 Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, During this holiday season, I 
would like to recognize the soldiers and veterans from Alaska who have 
given so much and continue to give so much. I would like them to know 
that their sacrifices in Afghanistan and Iraq have not gone unnoticed 
by their fellow Alaskans. When I was in Iraq I had the pleasure of 
meeting soldiers and National Guardsmen from Anchorage, Fairbanks, 
Seward, Soldotna, Eagle River, Slana, and Wasilla. Hearing their 
stories and commitment made me incredibly proud to be an Alaskan.

Every day, Alaskans write my office praising the service men and 
women who have returned and those still in combat. Sometimes it is just 
a short message conveying their support, while other times is a long 
heartfelt letter praising our heroes and expressing solidarity with 
them for the sacrifices they have made. I truly believe that the fact 
that Alaska has the largest number of veterans per capita says a lot 
about our State's character.

Alaskan veterans are some of the most exemplary in the Armed Forces. 
The 172nd Stryker Brigade in particular had their tour in Iraq extended 
to 16 months, but when their country asked them for more they remained 
strong and proud. Just last week I received an e-mail from the 
commander of the 172nd. He informed me that on December 12 Sgt. Gregory 
Williams from the 172nd was presented the Distinguished Service Cross, 
the second highest award for valor, for his actions in combat while in 
Baghdad. Despite being injured himself when their vehicle was struck by 
a bomb, Sergeant Williams was able to return fire and help a wounded 
comrade to safety. To date, there have been only eight Distinguished 
Service Crosses awarded since the war began in 2001.

We Alaskans often enjoy doing things our own way. In Iraq, one 
Alaskan marine discovered he had hidden talents he never imagined when 
his innovative approach to searching out insurgents earned him the Navy 
and Marine Corps Commendation Medal. SGT Aaron A. Henehan led his squad 
to search out and detain 18 ''blacklist'' or high-value insurgents 
while on his third tour in Iraq.

An adventurous young man, Sergeant Henehan was barely out of high 
school and anxious to see the world when he first thought of signing up 
to serve his country. September 11 and the outbreak of war did not 
cause his decision to waiver an inch.

Sergeant Henehan deployed in April of 2003 and spent his first tour 
in the town of Babylon in Najaf Province. He served his country well, 
like many who fought alongside him, and began to learn the 
undercurrents and inner workings of Iraqi society. He returned for a 
second tour to Husaybah, near Iraq's border with Syria in August 2004. 
At the time Husaybah was a dangerous town.

Sergeant Henehan served his second tour in Iraq with distinction 
again but still felt he needed to do more. Before deploying for his 
third and final tour in February of 2006 he told friends and family 
back home that he yearned to make a difference in Iraq, a sentiment 
many American soldiers and guardsmen share with him. He spent a lot of 
time between his second and third tours thinking about what he could do 
differently, how he could learn from his experience and achieve a 
better result.

Combining his marine training with information he learned from a 
retired LAPD officer deployed to Iraq to teach our troops urban 
tactics, Sergeant Henehan approached his third tour with what he 
referred to as a ''beat cop mentality.'' He wanted to approach the 
problem of rounding up insurgents as if he were a native of the area. 
He spent his free time studying the tribal history and geography of 
Husaybah for hours at a time.

The ability to put his plan in motion, Sergeant Henehan says, was 
made possible in part by Operation Steel Curtain, which had cleared 
Husaybah block by block, and set up outposts called ''firm bases'' 
throughout the city. Upon returning for his third tour, Sergeant 
Henehan immediately noticed that after this push, while not always 
willing to openly support the coalition forces, many Iraqis felt safe 
enough to give him tips on where the insurgents were hiding. This 
change in mentality, coupled with Sergeant Henehan's knowledge of 
family and tribal connections, allowed him to determine which people to 
ask about each of the 18 high value insurgents he located. He knew 
exactly who would be willing to tip him off about a social rival or 
historic foe.

Traveling with an interpreter, Sergeant Henehan had a talent for 
remembering names and personal details. He took every opportunity he 
could to talk with the locals and learn about the town's social 
organization and tribal boundaries, often returning several times to 
talk with the same families to gain their trust. Bringing with him 
candy, doctors, and his good humor, he would knock on doors and 
politely ask to chat. Entire families opened up to him. Sometimes it 
would start with a toy given to a child; sometimes it was a heartfelt 
conversation with a shopkeeper. The response he got astonished 
everyone, including the insurgents hiding out in the town.

The 12 marines in his squad called him a fair, but tough leader who 
they felt very safe with. His intense and proactive preparation for the 
more than 80 combat missions which he led and his personal attention to 
each of his 12 soldiers' well-being gave them a sense of security. They 
too noted how his relaxed Alaskan exterior quickly helped earn him the 
respect of the townspeople.

Even more remarkably, Sergeant Henehan's reputation for being fair 
and caring allowed him to detain all 18 high-value insurgents without 
any real violence. These 18 also led him to their associates, 
significantly disrupting insurgent operations in that part of Al Anbar 
Province. Sergeant Henehan remained behind after his unit returned to 
the States to train new troops about how he learned to wage urban 
warfare while gaining the trust of the townspeople. The downturn in 
violence in Al Anbar can be linked, in part, to his efforts and efforts 
of those like him.

Sergeant Henehan is currently attending a California community 
college and plans to transfer to a larger State school after completing 
his distribution credits. He wants to major in computer programs and 
even talks of one day creating video games that more accurately portray 
what war in the modern era is like. He has already begun organizing 
photographs from his three tours to use as backdrops. Clearly his 
talent for careful planning and his desire to share his knowledge and 
experiences with others did not leave with his donning of civilian 
clothes. I wish him the best in all his future endeavors, just as I 
wish the best for all of our Alaskan veterans and those now 
serving.
