# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `14f21734ea6e1ba61505581daba38bed`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida â€” 21 September 2010`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, in a few hours we are going to 
be voting on whether we want to take up the Defense bill. That should 
be a no-brainer, for, after all, defense of the country is one of the 
most important things the U.S. Government can do. We are going to 
consider that. Yet we have some highly inflammatory issues that 
possibly are going to derail this bill.

I have the privilege of sitting on both the Senate Armed Services 
Committee and the Intelligence Committee. The provisions in this bill, 
from my standpoint, are going to ensure that our service men and women 
who are putting their lives on the line for this country will have the 
training, the equipment, and the resources they need and deserve.

Back in February, the Secretary of Defense told our Armed Services 
Committee that the Department's top priorities are ''rearming and 
strengthening the nation's commitment to care for the all-volunteer 
force, our greatest strategic asset'' and ''rebalancing America's 
defense posture by emphasizing capabilities needed to prevail in 
current conflicts while enhancing capabilities that may be needed in 
the future.'' That is what the Secretary of Defense said. What more can 
you say? That is what this bill does. This National Defense 
Authorization Act is going to authorize over $700 billion in 
discretionary budget authority for the programs and initiatives to 
carry out what the Secretary of Defense said.

In order to carry this out for an all-volunteer force, here are some 
of the things the bill will do. It will improve the quality of life for 
the service members and their families, authorizing much needed 
military construction and housing projects.

Here is another example: Ensure that all of the forces preparing to 
deploy are trained for what they are deploying for and that their 
equipment is ready so that they can succeed at combat. I remember back 
in the early days of the Iraq war, I had mamas and daddies calling me 
because members of the Florida National Guard were in Iraq and they did 
not even have the adequate body armor. Never again for those kinds of 
things. But that is another reason for us to have this bill.

Another reason: It will authorize a 1.4-percent pay raise for our 
service members.

To get ready for the ongoing efforts to prevail in this fight, here 
is also what the bill would do:

Counterinsurgency. It enhances our ability to go after the bad guys 
in those counterinsurgency operations in Afghanistan, and it would 
improve the ability of our military to counter nontraditional threats 
such as those that now threaten us in the cyber warfare domain.

Of course, it would support the highest priority unfunded needs that 
are identified by the Chiefs of Staff.

It would also authorize over $110 billion in base budget authority 
for funding high-priority weapons systems. I will give an example. The 
Navy's littoral combat ship allows us to get in close to shore in 
modernized equipment and boats; also, the E2-D Advanced Hawkeye, the 
Air Force's Joint STARS Program, and the new hot, stealthy F-35 Joint 
Strike Fighter.

This bill takes several steps to enhance our capabilities to protect 
our country against emerging threats, including terrorism and the 
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. This is in a subject area 
of the subcommittee in Armed Services that I chair.

We are going to have an increased capability for manufacturing and 
testing capabilities to reduce the time required to produce high-demand 
items such as body and vehicle armor, the IED jammers, Mine Resistant 
Ambush Protected Vehicles--that is the MRAP vehicles--and to modernize 
Department test capability facilities to ensure new weapons systems 
meet the requirements of that warfighter who is out there on the 
ground, facing the threat.

In this bill is also funding for advanced technologies for weapons 
systems and further R&D to reduce our dependency on fossil fuels in our 
military machine.

It is going to add $113 million for unfunded requirements that were 
identified by the commander of the Special Operations Command for 
ground mobility vehicles, deployable communications equipment, thermal 
and night vision goggles, special operations combat assault rifles, and 
nonlethal weapons technologies. This is the new kind of war and combat 
we are facing. It is often these highly specialized, trained units that 
are going in under stealth with highly sophisticated weapons and 
equipment to go after a very stealthy enemy who does not wear a uniform 
and who blends right into the local population.

This bill also goes after getting us improved in the nonproliferation 
programs.

There is so much in this bill. Yet we are facing not even getting the 
60 votes this afternoon to be able to proceed with the Nation's 
defense. Why is that? Because there is a provision in here, that was 
voted out of the Armed Services Committee, on the repeal of the 
standing policy in the military of don't ask, don't tell--a repeal of 
it once the


Department of Defense completes a comprehensive review of the repeal. 
The President, the Secretary of Defense, and the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs--once that review is done under the bill--must certify to 
Congress that they can implement the repeal while maintaining 
readiness, effectiveness, and unit cohesion. This provision obviously 
has received a great deal of attention. I believe that proceeding in 
this way--very cautiously--will allow the DOD to examine all the 
implications of repealing this policy while moving forward with this 
change.

It is clear that this Defense bill is a key piece of the legislation 
for our military. For 48 consecutive years, the Senate has completed 
work on a Defense authorization bill. This year, a year when we have 
forces engaged in ground combat as we speak, is not the year for the 
Senate to suddenly say: No, we are not going to pass this kind of 
legislation.

I urge the Senate this afternoon on this vote to allow us to proceed 
to the discussion and the amending of the Defense bill.

Mr. President, how much time is remaining?