---
---

# TRIBUTE TO GENERAL T. MICHAEL MOSELEY
## `1513921823f3763374d6c582e488e4c8`
`Mr. CORNYN — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize an outstanding 
military leader and fellow Texan, GEN T. Michael Moseley. For nearly 3 
years, General Moseley has served as the Chief of Staff of the United 
States Air Force, functioning as the senior uniformed Air Force officer 
responsible for the organization, training, and equipage of more than 
710,000 Air Force personnel--active duty, Guard, and Reserve airmen, 
and civilians both in the United States and overseas. His service to 
our Air Force and to the American people has been both distinguished 
and admirable; he is, by all accounts, an exceptional American, a 
dedicated public servant, and an outstanding defender of the principles 
of democracy and liberty for which this Nation stands.

General Moseley was born in Dallas, TX, and grew up just south of 
there, in the city of Grand Prairie. His family has a long history of 
serving the people of Texas, and the United States as a whole. General 
Moseley's father, as a mason, helped build several well-known and 
prominent buildings in Dallas. His grandfather served the Texas law 
enforcement community as a member of the Texas Rangers, that legendary 
organization established in 1835 to range and guard the Texas Frontier. 
General Moseley hails from a long line of proud and noble Texans, and 
has greatly added to that legacy with his own distinguished service in 
the Air Force.

His impressive military career began in the Corps of Cadets at Texas 
A&M University, where he earned both a bachelor's and master's degree 
in political science. On his way to becoming Air Force Chief of Staff, 
he held key staff positions running the gamut from operational to joint 
to personnel assignments. He served as commander of numerous units and 
organizations, including the F-15 Division of the Air Force Fighter 
Weapons School at Nellis AFB, the 33rd Operations Group at Eglin AFB, 
and the 57th Wing--the Air Force's largest, most diverse flying wing--
also at Nellis AFB. He is a member of the prestigious Council on 
Foreign Relations, and he was even knighted in 2006 at the suggestion 
of Queen Elizabeth II, in recognition of his outstanding contributions 
to U.S.-United Kingdom relations while in command of air operations 
over Afghanistan and Iraq in the early days of the global war on 
terrorism. His list of medals, other awards, and accomplishments is so 
long as to preclude mentioning them all here.

Without a doubt, General Moseley's selfless service to the United 
States, especially in this arduous and vital fight against global 
terrorism, has been instrumental in securing the safety and liberty of 
all Americans. And while he will be leaving behind his noble and 
exemplary career with the Air Force, his contributions and the impact 
of his leadership will be felt for years to


come, both throughout the halls of the Pentagon, and by each and every 
person that had the honor of serving next to him.

It is my privilege to commend the honorable and faithful service of 
GEN T. Michael Moseley, and to thank him for his commitment to our 
country and the principles upon which it is founded.

I wish General Moseley and his wife Jennie all the best as they 
prepare for the future, and I thank them both for the sacrifices they 
have willingly made in the defense of freedom and our great Nation.
