---
---

# IOWA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
## `151317ac4bb3945f5d84ffb2f346b4c0`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 29 June 2007`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, today I would like to take a moment to 
recognize a group of Iowans who distinguished themselves in their 
service on behalf of the security of the United States. Troop C, 1-113 
Cavalry, of the Iowa Army National Guard, brought honor to itself and 
the State of Iowa while serving in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
Troop C entered the Iraq theater of operations on October 30, 2005, and 
completed its mission on October 30, 2006.

Troop C, 1-113 Cavalry was based at Camp Ashraf in the Diyala 
Province of Iraq. Diyala is one of the most contested provinces in 
Iraq, and the mission of Troop C, 1-113 Cavalry was to provide 
perimeter defense at Camp Ashraf, reconnaissance and security patrols, 
improvised explosive device clearance missions, and convoy escorts. 
Troop C missions were conducted in such contested cities as Baghdad, 
Baqubah, and Khalis, as well as anywhere else required. Dangerous does 
not quite capture the situations that Troop C faced on a daily basis.

During this tour of duty, Troop C, 1-113 Cavalry conducted more than 
3,000 missions, drove in excess of 150,000 miles on treacherous Iraqi 
roads, sustained over 50 improvised explosive devices strikes, 
discovered more than 25 emplaced improvised explosive devices and 
provided security while these devices were destroyed; and on a routine 
basis conducted security missions to Ashraf's West Water Pump Station. 
Troop C put themselves in harm's way to ensure continual water supply 
to Ashraf and the surrounding villages. For its actions while 
performing these missions, Troop C has earned to date eleven Purple 
Hearts and nearly one-hundred combat action badges.

Battlefield success came at a price. SGT Dan L. Sesker made the 
ultimate sacrifice, giving his life while conducting a convoy operation 
in Baghdad.

On May 29, 2006, members of Troop C arrived on scene immediately 
after 4th Infantry Division Soldiers and a Columbia Broadcasting System 
news crew were attacked while conducting Memorial Day interviews. The 
soldiers of Troop C heroically took up the security mission and 
provided first aid to the wounded Soldiers and news crew. The treatment 
provided to the correspondent, Kimberly Dozier, saved her life.

Troop C, 1-113 Cavalry deserves the highest praise of this body and 
the entire Nation. The courage, selfless sacrifice, and dedication to 
their mission displayed by Troop C exemplifies what is best in our 
brave soldiers and I am very proud to call them fellow Iowans. It is to 
the valor of those in Troop C and others like them past and present 
that we Americans owe our freedom and security today.
