---
---

# MOTION TO INSTRUCT CONFEREES ON H.R. 2647, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `151a54bdd234917c58cd96ce68883135`
`Mr. SKELTON — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, let me first thank the gentleman from 
California (Mr. McKeon) for his efforts in the Defense authorization 
bill this year. It's important that I do so because he's been a great 
partner. He's been jumping in with both feet as ranking member from the 
day he began serving as ranking member. At a time when the Department 
of Defense is fighting two wars and simultaneously promoting and 
serving America's strategic interests around the world, I'm proud to 
say that our Congress is nearing completion on a strong and effective 
Defense authorization bill.

The bill that this House approved overwhelmingly on June 25, like its 
Senate counterpart, reflects the Congress' deep commitment in 
supporting American servicemembers and providing the necessary 
resources to keep our Americans safe. Both bills provide our military 
personnel with a 3.4 percent pay raise, an increase of .5 percent above 
the President's request. The House bill also includes a number of 
initiatives to support military families this year, which, of course, 
is the Year of the Military Family. We fully fund the President's 
overall budget request, and worked hard to provide robust funding for 
military training, equipment, maintenance and facilities upkeep.

The House bill continues the commitment to oversight of the wars in 
Afghanistan and Iraq, which has been a hallmark of our committee, as 
well as personal pride on my behalf. The bill also works to equip and 
modernize our military forces and extend our acquisition reform efforts 
which we passed a substantial bill here earlier this year.

With that, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. 
Andrews).