# OBSERVING THE BIRTHDAY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
## `15249da0d6ae5247ae5aa5c96f7f2ed7`
`Mr. CONYERS — 16 January 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, I thank the Members that have participated in this 
activity. We will have 5 days to continue to introduce our comments 
into the Congressional Record, and I also remind those that would like 
to join in the cosponsorship of Congressman Lewis' resolution, they 
still have an opportunity to do so.

Madam Speaker, I will introduce into the Record five articles dealing 
with Dr. King. One is from the Washington Post entitled, ''From Dr. 
King, a reminder on Iraq.'' Another from the same source, ''The quest 
to keep King's legacy alive.'' Another, ''Walking just like King did.'' 
Another, ''Democrats hail civil rights leader King.'' Finally, the last 
one, ''Martin Luther King papers go on display.''

Madam Speaker, what I would conclude with is the pleasure that I have 
in seeing this holiday increasingly observed from year-to-year. Martin 
Luther King's birthday is not a shopping day. It is not a day off. It 
is not a day that you worry about getting some things done around the 
house. There are untold thousands of celebrations, some large, some 
small, some in churches, some signified by marches. There are so many 
different ways that he is being observed.

I was so pleased yesterday to be at the church that Dr. Martin Luther 
King had the privilege of addressing on numerous occasions. Then 
earlier I was with some very young people who were just learning about 
Dr. King, and they were taking a day on instead of a day off. They are 
working with schools and other youngsters in parks and recreation, in 
the City Year agency led by Penny Bailey.

So, Madam Speaker, I am pleased that the Congress under the 
leadership of the gentleman from Georgia would have this resolution 
brought to the floor today.








 [From the Washington Post, Jan. 13, 2007]









 The Quest To Keep King's Legacy Alive














(By Hamil R. Harris)




 On Monday, the country honors the Rev. Martin Luther King 


 Jr., who would have been 78 years old. The civil rights 


 leader, who was assassinated in 1968 at the age of 39, 


 launched many of his efforts from the pulpit. To mark his 


 birthday, religious leaders were asked: Is King's legacy of 


 social activism still alive in the faith community today?



 The Rev. Jesse Jackson, founder of the Rainbow/Push 


 Coalition: ''The activist black churches are still the 


 conscience of our nation. . . . I was with Dr. King on his 


 last birthday. We must remember that a lot of churches didn't 


 support King then. He was expelled from the National Baptist 


 Convention. Our mission today is to green line a red-lined 


 America. It is good to talk about raising the minimum wage in 


 Congress, but for those who don't have jobs, the issue 


 doesn't touch them. We need to continue to work on an urban 


 agenda.''



 Rabbi Marla J. Feldman, director of the Commission on 


 Social Action of Reform Judaism: ''Dr. King's legacy is very 


 much still alive and his legacy continues to inspire the 


 faith community across the country. I know that . . . 


 reformed congregations around the country will do something 


 special for the King holiday to honor his legacy. . . . There 


 will be congregations all over the country involved in social 


 activist enterprises, including in the Washington, D.C., 


 area. All of the rabbis that I know will be preaching about 


 Dr. King and the issues that we are wrestling with today, 


 such as economic justice and the war in Iraq.''



 The Rev. Artie L. Polk, assistant pastor of Mount Gilead 


 Baptist Church in the District and founder of the Martin 


 Luther King memorial breakfast celebration in Prince George's 


 County: ''It is a real challenge to keep the King legacy 


 alive, especially in light of this new prosperity gospel 


 where preachers are talking about name it and claim it. Too 


 many people are focused today on themselves instead of 


 keeping alive King's legacy of service and commitment to the 


 least of these.''



 Mohammed Shameem, a broadcast engineer from Bowie who 


 volunteers at the Prince George's Muslim Association in 


 Lanham: ''More so than ever before, people of the faith 


 community should adhere to Dr. King's principles in terms of 


 equality and unity in the community because our civil rights 


 are being eroded today, and the civil rights of Muslims are 


 being trampled upon. Social activism calls for pointing out 


 injustice. Hardworking and innocent Muslims are being 


 profiled just because of their faith. A group of imams were 


 stopped in the airport because they were being profiled.''



 Bishop Adam Jefferson Richardson, prelate of the 2nd 


 Episcopal District of the African Methodist Episcopal Church: 


 ''The movement is still regarded as effective for that time, 


 but that style has changed. The frightful part is that in the 


 old days, there was a theological mandate to do social 


 activism, now among Generation Next, there is an emphasis on 


 acquisition and materialism, much to the exclusion as to what 


 is good for the whole community. There is nothing wrong with 


 a prosperity message, but you have to guide people to 


 understand the whole gospel, which also includes helping 


 others; it can't be selfcentered, it has to be others-


 oriented.''



 Rabbi Douglas Heifetz of the Oseh Shalom Congregation in 


 Laurel: ''Yes! King's legacy is alive today. It needs to be 


 spread far and near. For example, the Jewish community has 


 been extremely active in working with a coalition of other 


 groups to call for an end to the genocide in Darfur because 


 this is massive human rights abuse on a wide scale. We are 


 called to follow King's legacy because the Hebrew Bible calls 


 for ongoing social transformation to affect the lives of 


 people, paying special attention to the lives of those who 


 are most in need.''



 Auxiliary Bishop Martin D. Holley of the Archdiocese of 


 Washington: ''King's dream is very much alive today. It is 


 very prophetic, especially his letter from the Birmingham 


 jail. Here was a man who believed so much in the dignity of 


 the human person that he was willing to go to jail for it He 


 led by example. He went beyond making statements. He paid a 


 heavy price. He gave his life for all people.''



 Cain Hope Felder, professor at the Howard University School 


 of Divinity and founder of the Biblical Institute for Social 


 Change: ''I am sick and tired of hearing Dr. King's 'I Have a 


 Dream' speech when the daily reality is that for an 


 increasing number of Americans, and the African American poor 


 in particular, living is a nightmare. Dr. King's legacy is 


 barely alive today. There needs to be a vigorous effort for 


 religious leaders to be far more proactive than they have 


 been in the past two decades of co-optation.''