---
---

# None
## `152e732f8a8a52952cba26540b676bc0`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, it's interesting our colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle are trying desperately to change the subject. 
There could be a FISA extension in a heartbeat. They turned that down. 
If they cared truly about national security, they would be embarrassed 
about the bankrupt energy policy that puts our Nation at risk. We 
wouldn't have a third of a million American soldiers and civilian 
contractors in Iraq today spending 1 trillion American tax dollars if 
Iraq didn't have the second largest oil reserves and that we have an 
energy policy that doesn't meet the needs of America today, much less 
for the future.

The bill that we have before you that this rule enables us to 
consider will be passed. It will be passed through the House today. It 
will pass the Senate, it is only a question of when. It may take an 
election for the American people to be clear that they're tired of 
investing in energy policies from the past, for the past.

This isn't a tax increase. Our bill has exactly the same amount of 
money


coming in as going out. But instead of subsidizing the purchase of the 
largest gas guzzling SUVs, we are going to subsidize hybrid plug-ins. 
Instead of giving $14 billion of unneeded subsidies to the five largest 
oil companies who made over half a trillion dollars in profit, we are 
going to help avoid the starving of the wind energy business.

Approve the rule. Vote for the bill.