---
---

# HONORING ARMY SPECIALIST STEVEN CHRISTOFFERSON
## `15477791e04ccf8862a6cf2c5396dcb2`
`Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin — 22 July 2008`

---


Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Madam Speaker, in April, over 350 friends, 
family members, and others in the community inspired by the life of 
Army Specialist Steven Christofferson gathered at the Cudahy High 
School Field House in my district to pay their respects to


this remarkable young man whose life was cut tragically short in Iraq 
last month.

Today, I want to take to the floor to share with my colleagues and 
with the American people this young man's story and his untimely 
sacrifice.

So, who was this young man? He was a proud member of Delta Co., 1st 
Battalion, 327th Infantry, 101st Airborne Division, Mad Dog 5th Platoon 
stationed at Fort Campbell, Ky. His awards and decorations include: 
National Defense Service Medal; Global War on Terrorism Service Medal; 
Army Service Ribbon; and Weapons Qualification, M4, expert. At his 
memorial service, Wisconsin Army National Guard BG Mark Anderson 
presented the family four medals, including a Bronze Star and a Purple 
Heart.

He was devoted to family and a caring son to his mother, Michell, 
herself having served in the Air Force. According to Michell 
Christofferson, he was an older brother who loved his siblings and 
earned their respect. And, in her words, he deserved it because ''he 
was kind and he was thoughtful, and he was a caring young man.''

According to his mother, in e-mail exchanges with her, he said he 
would be her angel. She praised him for being a best friend to his 
younger brothers--Dakota (17) and Dillon (11)--as well as defending 
them when needed or taking action to keep them on the straight and 
narrow if called to do so. He was caring, positive and respectful, a 
protector of his family.

He grew up too fast and was taken too soon.

He was also a valuable member of a community. Christofferson was a 
2006 graduate of Cudahy High School, where he was a member of the 
football, wrestling and track teams. He will be sorely missed. His 
Cudahy High School Principal, Christopher Haeger, remembered 
encountering Steven the day he enlisted in the Army. ''He was very, 
very excited,'' Haeger said. ''I know it was an important part of his 
life.'' Or as his brother Dakota put it, ''He felt like he had to do 
something, go help people.''

He deployed to Iraq in September. But he kept in close touch with his 
family. According to media reports, he spoke with his mother and 
brother just hours before his death.

I can find no words more appropriate than those of Steven's own 
mother to sum up my brief remarks on this remarkable life. At his 
memorial service earlier this year, his mother closed--expressing the 
sentiments of a community and a grateful Nation--with these words: 
''Fly with the angels, my baby boy. We miss you lots and love you 
more.''

The Bible says we should give honor to those whom honor are due and 
respect to those whom respect is due. Today, I rise to honor this young 
man and to ask that the balance of my time be reserved for a moment of 
silence as a mark of tribute to Specialist Steven Christofferson and of 
support for his family.
