---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `154b1d4773ac3a943b54c73abb1a3d76`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 24 September 2009`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I thank Chairman Inouye for his 
leadership and bipartisanship in putting together this legislation and 
moving it to the floor for consideration.

Two weeks ago, the Appropriations Committee unanimously approved this 
bill which provides over $636 billion for Department of Defense 
operations for fiscal year 2010, including $128 billion for overseas 
contingency operations. In compliance with committee allocation, this 
bill is $3.9 billion below the President's budget request.

Given the allocation, the committee was forced to make tough 
decisions. This bill reflects a balanced recommendation which fully 
funds key readiness programs as well as providing for pay, housing 
allowance, medical care and family support for our men and women in 
uniform and their families.

Included in this bill is funding for requirements identified by the 
administration after the budget request was submitted. Funding is 
included to address the administration's budget amendment to grow the 
Army by an additional 22,200 personnel. Also included is an additional 
$1.2 billion for 1400 mine resistant ambush protected vehicles that 
were recently identified as new requirements for our men and women 
serving in Afghanistan.

This bill also includes $1.5 billion in the National Guard and 
Reserve Equipment account to help the Guard and Reserve components 
procure needed equipment. The Guard and Reserve continue to answer the 
call to duty. With over 140,000 Guard and Reserve personnel activated, 
we need to ensure they have the resources necessary to be ready to 
perform their Federal and State missions. This additional funding will 
help ensure the Guard and Reserve have the equipment they need.

I urge Senators to support the passage of this bill so we can make 
sure service members and their civilian colleagues in the Department of 
Defense have the funding they need to carry out their responsibilities. 
The men and women who wear our Nation's uniform make great sacrifices 
and one way to


show our support is to provide funding in a timely manner. My hope is 
that we finish floor consideration of this bill this week. It would be 
good for all concerned if we could in a timely fashion before the end 
of this fiscal year.
