---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `1556d60aa52e49e251f67cacd15fdb69`
`Mr. KIRK — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. KIRK. Mr. President, ''The need for comprehensive national health 
insurance and concomitant changes in the organization and delivery of 
health care in the United States is the single most important issue of 
health policy today.'' Those are not my words. Those are the words of 
Senator Edward M. Kennedy. The ''today'' of which he spoke was December 
16, 1969, exactly 40 years ago today. It was his first major speech on 
health care reform, and I was privileged to be a young member of his 
staff. He delivered that speech to a group of physicians at Boston 
University Medical Center.

Senator Kennedy went on to say:




 If we are to reach our goal of bringing adequate health 


 care to all our citizens, we must have full cooperation 


 between Congress, the administration, and the health 


 professionals. We already possess the knowledge and the 


 technology to achieve our goal. All we need is the will. The 


 challenge is enormous, but I am confident that we are all 


 equal to the task.


The world has progressed in many ways since he spoke those words four 
decades ago, but our health care system has not. In 1969, the United 
States spent $18 billion on health care. Today we spend over $2 
trillion a year. Senator Kennedy pointed out, in 1969, that the Nation 
faced a shortage of primary care doctors. The reimbursement rates for 
physicians treating Medicare and Medicaid patients were too low. There 
was a need to support greater innovation in delivering care, and 
neighborhood health centers were underfunded. He said we needed to 
develop an effective means of providing quality, affordable care to all 
Americans, regardless of their standing in life.

Does all this sound familiar? Yes. But that was then and this is now.

In recent weeks, Senators on both sides of the aisle have come to 
this floor to debate the merits of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act. We have had our differences of opinion, to be 
sure. But on one issue there is no dispute. When it comes to our health 
care system, there is no such thing as a status quo. We will move 
forward or we will continue to fall behind.

Here is what we will face, if we do not pass this reform. Premiums 
will skyrocket and could consume as much as 45 percent of a median 
family's income by 2016. Bankruptcies will increase due to families not 
being able to


afford their medical costs. More Americans will be uninsured. Small and 
large businesses will suffer financially due to health cost increases. 
Health care could constitute as much as 28 percent of our Nation's GDP 
by 2030. Fifteen percent of the Federal budget could be dedicated to 
Medicare and Medicaid by 2040.

Ted Kennedy had a keen sense of history. He knew Germany adopted the 
idea of national health insurance in the 1880s, that Britain, France, 
and a number of other European nations embraced the concept after the 
First World War, that Canada has had a publicly funded system since the 
1950s. He would ask, as he did in 1969 and again in 2009: If all these 
nations understood long ago that their economic health was ultimately 
tied to the health of their people, why does the United States stand 
alone as the only major industrial nation in the world that fails to 
guarantee health care for all its citizens?

It is not that we have never sought this goal in the past. 
Presidents, Republicans and Democrats, over many decades, have proposed 
national health insurance in America. Presidents Theodore Roosevelt, 
Franklin Roosevelt, Harry Truman, John F. Kennedy, Richard Nixon, and 
Bill Clinton all made health reform a part of their agenda. Now we 
stand on the threshold of history. Never has this country been so close 
to bringing affordable, quality health care to millions of America's 
families. Today, under President Obama's leadership, the goal is within 
our reach. Failure is not an option. All interested parties have been 
brought to the table. Physicians, hospitals, insurance companies, small 
businesses, pharmaceutical companies, and many others have had an 
opportunity to present their suggestions and offer their input. Dozens 
of hearings were held on all topics related to this issue.

The House of Representatives has acted. The Senate HELP Committee, 
through the diligence of Senators Kennedy, Dodd, and Harkin and the 
Finance Committee, under the leadership of Senator Baucus, held lengthy 
executive sessions that discussed all areas of reform and delivered and 
developed their respective bills. Due to the hard work and tireless 
patience of the majority leader, we have one merged bill before us, a 
single piece of legislation which will improve the lives of millions of 
Americans in the following ways. It expands coverage to an additional 
31 million Americans, bringing health insurance to almost 94 percent of 
our citizens. It saves money by rewarding the quality and value of 
care, not the quantity and volume of care. It controls the cost of 
skyrocketing premiums and limits out-of-pocket expenses. It reduces the 
Federal deficit by an estimated $130 billion in the first 10 years and 
an estimated $650 billion in the second 10 years. It stimulates 
competition in the health insurance marketplace through establishment 
of exchanges. It strengthens Medicare by reducing unnecessary spending, 
lowering prescription costs, and closing the so-called doughnut hole. 
It attacks fraudulent and wasteful spending and helps to correct abuses 
in the system. It rewards wellness and prevention by expanding access 
to advice on how to live a healthy lifestyle by practicing good 
nutrition, increasing physical activity, and quitting smoking.

It eliminates unfair discrimination against patients by preventing 
insurance firms from denying certain coverage to women or to 
individuals with preexisting conditions.

It promotes flexibility and innovation in new health care 
technologies. It introduces a self-funded, voluntary choice for long-
term services and support for the elderly and disabled. Most of all, it 
saves lives by providing affordable, quality care for individuals, 
families, and small businesses.

In my State of Massachusetts, because of our successful reform, the 
rate of the uninsured has been reduced to 2.7 percent of the 
population, and the lives of thousands of citizens of our Commonwealth 
have been immeasurably improved.

Carol's case is one example. Carol did not realize the importance of 
having quality, affordable health insurance until she was confronted 
with the gravity of her own health problems. She is a 24-year-old woman 
suffering from seizures and desperately in need of help.

She remembers having occasional seizures as a child. They occurred 
mostly when she was overtired. As Carol grew older, the seizures became 
more frequent. One day, she had an episode when driving her car. 
Fortunately, her passenger was able to assist her. But that frightening 
incident convinced Carol to seek professional help.

She learned about the assistance of Health Care For All, the 
Massachusetts organization dedicated to making quality, affordable 
health care accessible to everyone. She applied and was declared 
eligible for Commonwealth Care. She immediately went to see a 
specialist and was given the health care she needed.

Carol expressed her gratitude in these words:




 I definitely feel blessed to be a Massachusetts resident. I 


 can't thank Health Care For All and MassHealth enough for all 


 the support given to me. The Helpline counselors literally 


 held my hands and brought me to live a healthy life, where 


 there is no fear or embarrassment, but there is knowledge and 


 a total control of my seizures. So, thank you so much all of 


 you who make this happen in people's lives.


We should all think about Carol and the millions of working families 
across the country when we vote for this legislation. It is our 
responsibility to enact laws that make a positive difference in 
people's lives, and that is what this bill is all about.

Senator Ted Kennedy envisioned a better America where, as he said:




 [E]very American--north, south, east, west, young, old--


 will have decent, quality health care as a fundamental right 


 and not a privilege.


This is a historic moment in our national life. We have the chance to 
finally complete the work that a respected Republican President called 
for over a century ago. Quality health care for all has always been 
needed in America but never more than now. The finish line is clearly 
in sight. The momentum and the energy are with us, and it is our 
obligation to seize this historic moment.

Every Member of this body is aware of the valiant fight Senator 
Kennedy waged for his own health during the last 15 months of his life. 
Many of you saw him, after receiving radiation and chemotherapy in the 
morning in Boston, walk into this Chamber that he loved to cast a 
deciding vote in the afternoon on the issue he proudly called the cause 
of his life.

While being treated at Massachusetts General Hospital, Senator 
Kennedy met a woman named Karen List. Her daughter Emily was one of 
many patients receiving a similar regimen of exhausting cancer 
treatments. They came from different walks of life, and cancer had 
touched them all.

In September 2008, after Emily's long summer of treatments, Karen 
wrote about Senator Kennedy and other patients he had met during his 
treatment. She wrote:




 Now, it is almost fall, and little Caroline is starting 


 kindergarten. Senator Kennedy, who came from a hospital bed 


 to speak at the convention, is planning his return to the 


 Senate in January. Alex, an Apache helicopter pilot, is back 


 at Fort Campbell and expects to be deployed to Afghanistan in 


 the New Year. And Emily hopes to be well enough by spring to 


 return to her life in London. The dream, as Senator Kennedy 


 promised, does live on.


Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the article by Karen List 
in the Daily Hampshire Gazette be printed in the Record.