---
---

# None
## `155c2c6e202982b7a9dc1d32e5fe3712`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 9 January 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Madam President, I thank my colleague and friend from 
Maine, Senator Collins, for her excellent statement and for her work as 
she led the committee, which produced a significant part of the bill 
before the Senate. I will speak about it and put it in a larger 
context.

We all know that the trust that people have in Congress is at a low 
point. I don't know that it is a historic low point, but it is a lot 
lower than anyone wants it to be, both for the national interest and 
out of a sense of pride we have in the service we attempt to give.

The reasons for the low level of public trust and confidence in 
Members of Congress and, more to the point, in Congress as an 
institution are more than one. One of the significant reasons for the 
low level of confidence in Congress is the partisanship that has 
divided this institution and, too often, made it impossible to do 
anything for the people who sent us here, who gave us the privilege of 
coming here to serve them. Partisanship is one part of the lack of 
esteem and trust the public has in us.

A second part is the public's doubt about the ethics of Members of 
Congress and the process we have for judging our ethics. Scandal after 
scandal unfolded last year. The public was left with the impression 
that the self-interest of lawmakers and lobbyists too often triumphed 
over the national good and the national interests. That is not true, 
but that was certainly the impression made by some of the awful 
exposures and scandals that were uncovered and by the prosecution of 
Members and lobbyists.

Unless we take action to restore the public's trust in us--that 
central confidence between those who are privileged to govern and those 
who, if you will, are governed--we will not be able to do the things we 
need to do to take on and to respond, in a constructive way, to the 
challenges we have before the Senate, including a new strategy for 
Iraq, a momentous decision that will affect our national security to be 
kicked off, if you will, redirected, by the statement that the 
President will make to the Nation tomorrow night; fighting the war on 
terrorism, reducing the deficit, doing something to fix our health care 
system, which is broken; improving our public system of education 
which, for still does not offer an equal opportunity to too many of our 
children; taking stress off the middle class which is the heart and 
soul of our country. All of those things will not happen in a good way 
unless we can rebuild the public's trust in us.

It involves less partisanship, a better self-policing of ethics--and 
I will come to that in a minute--but also doing some of the things I 
have talked about, responding to some of the problems, taking advantage 
of some of these opportunities that will restore the relationship 
between the people of the United States and those who serve them in the 
Congress.

And so much of law--we legislate the law--as someone taught me years 
ago, is the way we express our values, the way we express our 
aspirations for ourselves as a society, the rights and wrongs, what we 
hope we will be, is apparent in the system by which we legislate 
ourselves and those who lobby us. But the reality is that the best 
system for doing that is our own ethical norms, which most of us, of 
course, have; that, ultimately, we have to self-police ourselves by not 
trifling with and demeaning the extraordinary opportunity to serve that 
our constituents have given us.

Now we come to S. 1. I truly commend our new majority leader, Senator 
Reid, for introducing an ethics and lobbying reform bill as S. 1 and 
scheduling it as the very first legislative item of business for the 
Senate in this 110th Congress. I will give a little background to how 
we got here, particularly legislatively how we got here.

In January of last year, I was privileged to join Senator McCain in 
cosponsoring a sweeping lobbying reform bill that he crafted following 
his and Senator Dorgan's courageous investigation into the scandal 
surrounding the lobbyist Jack Abramoff. Senator Feingold and Senator 
Reid also introduced comprehensive bills that added many constructive, 
progressive ideas to the debate.


Senator Collins seized the moment as Chairman of the Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, and by early March of last 
year, our committee reported, with near unanimous bipartisan support, 
the most significant piece of lobbying reform legislation to come 
before Congress in over a decade. In the Rules Committee, Senators Lott 
and Dodd worked together to mark up a tough set of reforms to the 
Senate ethics rules. Senators Feinstein and Bennett, as the incoming 
and ranking members of that committee, have picked up the baton of 
reform where their predecessors left off.

As a result of a truly bipartisan effort last year, the Senate 
combined provisions reported out of the two committees--Homeland 
Security and Rules--and passed the legislation overwhelmingly by a vote 
of 90 to 8. Unfortunately, the House did not pursue the same course. It 
passed a weak bill on a mostly partisan vote and the House and Senate 
never moved to conference.

Now, we begin the new year with a fresh chance to finish old business 
and clean up our House and Senate for tomorrow. Last year's Senate-
passed bill is the text of S. 1 before the Senate now, a set of reforms 
that would bring greater honesty and transparency to the way we do 
business in Washington.

This year, we should go beyond last year's proposals, as Senator 
Collins


said, and enact even stronger reforms because the demand and need is 
greater. Our legislation should go further to include an independent 
Office of Public Integrity.

What we start with today in S. 1 is a very strong statement that the 
110th Congress will put the public interest over special interest.

I will spend a few moments describing the provisions of S. 1 that 
were reported out of our Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
Committee in March of last year, dealing primarily with the Lobbying 
Disclosure Act which comes before our committee under the rules.

The Lobbying Disclosure Act was passed in 1995, more than a decade 
ago. Since then, the number of lobbyists has skyrocketed. Last year, 
6,554 lobbying firms or organizations, not individuals--firms or 
organizations--registered to lobby. That is almost double the 3,554 
registrants in 1996, the first full year of reporting under the 
Lobbying Disclosure Act. The Office of Public Records received a total 
of 46,835 lobbying reports last year which represents a tremendous 
amount of activity. The amount of money spent each year on lobbying has 
skyrocketed, as well. Here we make estimates that put the number well 
over $2 billion a year for lobbying.

Now, to state the obvious, but the obvious often needs to be stated, 
lobbying Congress is not an evil thing to do. Being a lobbyist is not a 
dishonorable profession. In fact, lobbying Congress is a 
constitutionally protected right. The first amendment protects the 
right of all people to petition the Government for redress of 
grievances. Therefore, we have to be respectful when we legislate in 
this area. But it is entirely consistent with the first amendment 
right, and, of course, essential to our Government to provide ethics 
and transparency for lobbying practices.

First and foremost, are the politicians. In S. 1, we bring the 
Lobbying Disclosure Act into the age of the Internet by requiring 
electronic filing and creating a public-searchable database on the 
Internet, making the information as accessible as a click of the mouse 
to everyone interested.

We bring greater transparency to the relationship between lawmakers 
and lobbyists by expanding the types of activities lobbyists must 
disclose, including their campaign contributions, the fundraisers they 
host for Federal candidates, travel arranged for Members of Congress, 
payments to events to honor Members of Congress, and contributions to 
entities such as charities that are established by, for or controlled 
by a Member. We would get more timely disclosure from lobbyists by 
requiring them to submit filings on a quarterly, rather than a 
semiannual, basis.

S. 1 would also close a major loophole in the Lobbying Disclosure Act 
by requiring lobbyists, for the first time, to disclose paid efforts to 
generate grassroots lobbying.

Our former colleague, the late and really great Lloyd Bentsen, a 
Senator from Texas, once described this kind of grassroots lobbying as 
''Astroturf lobbying.'' Why? Because it generates manufactured, 
artificial rather than real, self-grown, grassroots pressures on 
Congress.


As it stands now, the Lobbying Disclosure Act requires disclosure 
only by lobbyists directly in contact with Members. S. 1 would require 
disclosure of the identity of organizers of media campaigns, mass 
mailings, phone banks, and other large-scale efforts encouraging the 
public to contact Members of Congress about specific issues. This is 
important because it would provide the American people, Members of 
Congress, ourselves, and the media with a better understanding of whose 
money is financing which efforts to influence Congress. This bill calls 
for transparency, but puts no limits on activity.

We would also remove the cloak obscuring so-called stealth lobbying 
campaigns which occur when a group of individuals, companies, unions, 
or associations ban together to form a lobbying coalition. These 
coalitions frequently have innocent-sounding names that give the 
impression they are promoting positive mom-and-pop, apple pie goals. 
But, in fact, they lobby on a range of issues that could never be 
identified by the name of the coalition.

S. 1 would also toughen the enforcement provisions under the Lobbying 
Disclosure Act by doubling to $100,000 the civil penalty that a 
lobbyist is subject to for violations of the law's requirements. And, 
for the first time, this proposal would forbid a lobbyist from 
providing gifts or travel to a Member of Congress in violation of House 
or Senate rules.

We would slow the revolving door between Congress and K Street by 
doubling from 1 to 2 years the so-called cooling off period for former 
Members of Congress, during which time they would face lobbying 
restrictions.

In total, the provisions of S. 1, I believe, provide a strong 
foundation for reform. Can this bill be improved? Of course it can. And 
I believe it will in the amendment process that will come before this 
Chamber on S. 1.

The majority leader, I know, is working to craft a comprehensive 
substitute bill that will go even further toward tightening earmark 
disclosure and revolving-door rules. I am confident that, through the 
amendment process, we will emerge with a bill that is even stronger 
than the good bill we passed last year.

A final word. In my opinion, significant changes to our ethics rules 
must be accompanied by significant changes to the way we enforce those 
rules. The public is understandably skeptical about a system in which 
we investigate, consider, and pass final judgments on allegations of 
ethical responsibility. They have seen too many Members, in the last 
few years particularly, caught up in scandal. In order to win the 
public's confidence, and, frankly, to do what is right to demonstrate 
our seriousness in this effort, I believe it is time, this year, to 
create an independent, investigative, and enforcement Office of Public 
Integrity. That would in no way usurp the ultimate authority of the 
Senate Ethics Committee, under rules consistent with the Constitution 
to be the final arbiter of questions about the ethics of Members of the 
Senate.

Mr. President, in closing, I would say this: We have an opportunity 
to begin anew--a fresh start at rebuilding the bonds of trust that have 
been broken between the Congress and the American people because of the 
unethical behavior of a few Members of this great institution.

S. 1 is the beginning, and a strong beginning, of what I believe will 
be an even stronger ending to accomplishing that critically important 
goal.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.