---
---

# EXPRESSING SENSE OF THE HOUSE REGARDING SEPTEMBER 11, 2001
## `15675670ebde8c23b5fe90d01adf572d`
`Mr. BOEHNER — 9 September 2009`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Let me thank my colleagues for yielding and thank them 
for this resolution that's on the floor.

All of us will remember, I think quite clearly, where we were on the 
morning of September 11, 2001. I think all of us will remember the 
victims of this heinous act that occurred that day. But while we today 
remember those victims and remember their families and we remember 
those first responders who put their lives in danger as well, I think 
we, today, need to resolve that we will never forgive those who 
perpetrated that attack and vow that we will continue to go after them.

I want to associate myself with the remarks of the gentleman from 
Missouri, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, who understands 
quite


clearly that if we walk away from our efforts in Afghanistan, the 
Taliban will once again be in control, providing safe haven for those 
who perpetrated these attacks.

And while it's been now 8 years since that attack, our enemies are 
still out there, still attempting to injure Americans, kill Americans, 
both here and abroad.

I think it's critically important that we, as a Nation, never forget 
what happened on 9/11 and vow what many of us believe is important: 
that our number one job is to provide safety and security to the 
American people.

So I thank my colleagues for the resolution that's on the floor and 
honor those who gave their lives on 9/11 and think of their families 
and the first responders who continue to suffer today.