---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `15697a7a69df5f1063a367614dbd5215`
`Mr. JONES — 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. JONES. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the McGovern 
amendment. When the previous administration was in office, many times 
Members on both sides of the aisle kept saying, Why isn't there an end 
point to the war in Iraq? Now, after 8 years in Afghanistan, the 
current administration must clearly articulate the benchmarks for 
success and the endpoint to its war strategy.

In my years in Congress, I have many opportunities to speak to 
military leaders. Time after time, time after time, I heard this: To 
have a successful war strategy, you must have an end point. An end 
point is an understanding of what has to be achieved.

General Petraeus recently said, Afghanistan has been known over the 
years as the graveyard of empires. We cannot take that history lightly.

Another voice who brings credibility to this position is Andrew 
Bacevich, a retired army colonel, Gulf War and Vietnam veteran, 
military historian, and the father of a son who died in Iraq in 2007. 
Bacevich has written that, Embarking on a protracted war with no 
foreseeable end to the U.S. commitment--lacking clearly defined and 
achievable objectives--risks forfeiting public support, thereby 
courting disaster.

This amendment does not set a date for leaving Afghanistan. It simply 
asks the Secretary of Defense to present a plan for success to Congress 
by the end of the year.

I would hope that the Members of Congress will look at this, and 
let's not repeat Vietnam. Our men and women in uniform have given and 
given and given. And it's time now to say that we have a definition of 
victory. And that's all Mr. McGovern's amendment is asking.