# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `156f11b07133e0232162ed9ffbf38576`
`Ms. KILPATRICK â€” 25 October 2007`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK. Madam Speaker, today, Congress, once again, wrote a 
prescription to the President for American children and their families 
that needs to be filled immediately. I am proud of the fact that 
Congress has sent to the Senate, and will soon send to the President, 
an insurance remedy for so many working families. I strongly support 
H.R. 3963, the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act 
of 2007, the modified bill to reauthorize and expand the State 
Children's Health Insurance Program or SCHIP. Working with the 
Minority, we were able to quickly craft a bill that addresses the 
concerns of most, if not all, Members of Congress.

In the wealthiest country in the world, far too many children are 
without health insurance. We can afford to spend $10 billion per month 
in a war in Iraq, but we cannot spend $35 billion over 5 years to 
protect our children? We cannot support those working families who 
cannot afford or do not have access to affordable health insurance? 
Over 81 percent of Americans, when asked this very question, agree with 
the Democratic Party that we need to take care of our children, and we 
need to take care of them now. Since the inception of SCHIP, the number 
of uninsured children has been reduced by one third. However, millions 
of children still remain uninsured or underinsured.

The revised bill before Congress today still would expand SCHIP to 
cover 10 million children and increase spending on the program to $35 
billion over 5 years, funded with a 61 cent per pack increase in the 
federal cigarette tax. The bill would limit coverage to children in 
families with annual incomes below 300 percent of the federal poverty 
level, and performance bonuses would be offered to states that enroll 
greater numbers of children in Medicaid. The bill also would offer 
performance bonuses to states that provide subsidies to employed 
parents to offset the cost of enrolling their children in a private 
health insurance plan.

Passing this legislation should be a bipartisan issue. SCHIP was 
created to address the growing problem of children in the United States 
without health insurance. SCHIP assists children whose family's income 
falls above the threshold for Medicaid, but who still cannot afford to 
purchase medical insurance coverage. More than two thirds of the 
children who will be covered under this bill are ethnic minorities.

A lack of medical insurance not only harms children, but their 
families and the community as a whole. Reauthorizing this bill is so 
important because children without health insurance do not receive 
regular checkups and doctor visits that every child needs. May I remind 
my colleagues that less than 10 miles from where we vote, a little boy 
died from the lack of getting a simple dental examination. Furthermore, 
millions of children won't get the preventive care they need and will 
likely receive care in emergency rooms if this bill is not 
reauthorized. This only drives up the cost of medical care for 
everyone.

SCHIP gives working families the peace of mind that their children 
will have accessible and affordable health care. Healthy children do 
not get unnecessary diseases and go to school ready to learn. Healthy 
children become healthy teenagers, who ultimately will become healthy 
adults. Although children are about 30 percent of our population, they 
are 100 percent of our future. This $35 billion is a wise investment in 
the future of America.

In the Bible, in the chapter of Isaiah, it says that ''the wolf shall 
dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid, and 
the calf and the young lion and the fatted domestic animal together; 
and a little child shall lead them.'' Today, Congress worked together 
to stand up for the children of our Nation. The President, and 
Congress, ignored the wisdom in protecting our children one time too 
many; it is now time to erase that mistake. We have that opportunity 
now.

SCHIP is a smart investment in our Nation's children and working 
families. Congress has changed the course of the discussion of health 
care for our children and working families; we have confronted the 
crises of the lack of health insurance; we will continue the legacy of 
caring for some of the least of our brothers and sisters. I look 
forward to quick passage of this bill in the Senate, and the 
President's enacting this bill into law. Our children deserve no less.