---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `157a4618062d0abd552274547d329db9`
`Mr. SKELTON — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to all of 
the amendments to end funding for the war in Afghanistan or to withdraw 
our troops before the job is done. Afghanistan is the epicenter for 
terrorism, and it was the genesis of multiple attacks against our 
Nation, including the attacks on September 11. We must not forget why 
we are fighting this war. There's far too much at stake.

For nearly a decade during the previous administration, Afghanistan 
was the forgotten war with no clear strategy. But now we have a 
strategy, a good strategy. We're already seeing clear signs of success 
even before the surge of an additional 30,000 troops is complete. With 
the help of our allies, we are capturing or killing terrorists every 
week, including the most significant Taliban capture since the start of 
the war.

We've been in Afghanistan for many years, and I recognize that the 
patience of the American people is not unlimited. But thanks to the men 
and women of our military and the new strategy adopted, we are finally 
on the path to success. Now is not the time to abandon this war, our 
NATO allies, and the Afghan people.

The amendments to immediately cut off funding for the war in 
Afghanistan or to immediately redeploy our troops are clearly the wrong 
thing to do. But it would be equally unwise to make a decision now to 
leave Afghanistan before the job is done. At long last, we have a 
strategy for success. Now is not the time to abandon that strategy. I 
urge my colleagues to join me in standing behind our troops and the 
security of our Nation by voting against these amendments.