# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `158e760e55d63534e41aabdc22961bb0`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, Iraq is the overarching issue of our 
time. American lives, American values, America's role in the world is 
at stake.

As the November election made clear, the American people oppose this 
war, and an even greater number oppose sending more troops to Iraq.

The American people are demanding a change in course in Iraq. 
Instead, the President is accelerating the same failed course he has 
pursued for nearly 4 years. He must understand Congress will not 
endorse this course.

The President's decision to send more American troops into the 
cauldron of civil war is not an acceptable strategy. It is against the 
advice of his own generals, the Iraq Study Group, and the wishes of the 
American people and will only compound our original mistake in going to 
war in Iraq in the first place.

This morning, the Secretary of State testified that the Iraqi 
Government ''is . . . on borrowed time.'' In fact, time is already up. 
The Iraqi Government needs to make the political compromises necessary 
to end this civil war. The answer is not more troops, it is a political 
settlement.

The President talked about strengthening relations with Congress. He 
should begin by seeking authority from Congress for any escalation of 
the war.

The mission of our Armed Forces today in Iraq no longer bears any 
resemblance whatsoever to the mission authorized by Congress in 2002. 
The Iraq war resolution authorized a war against the regime of Saddam 
Hussein because he was believed to have weapons of mass destruction, an 
operational relationship with al-Qaida, and was in defiance of the U.N. 
Security Council resolutions.

Not one Member of Congress--not one--would have voted in favor of the 
resolution if they thought they were sending American troops into a 
civil war.

The President owes it to the American people to seek approval for 
this new mission from Congress. Congress should no longer be a 
rubberstamp for the President's failed strategy. We should insist on a 
policy that is worthy of the sacrifice of the brave men and women in 
uniform who have served so gallantly in Iraq.

President Bush has been making up his mind on Iraq ever since the 
election. Before he escalates the war, the American people deserve a 
voice in his decision.

He is the Commander in Chief, but he is still accountable to the 
people. Our system of checks and balances gives Congress a key role in 
decisions of war and peace.

We know an escalation of troops into this civil war will not work. We 
have increased our military presence in the past, and each time the 
violence has increased and the political problems have persisted.

Despite what the President says, his own generals are on the record 
opposing a surge in troops.

Last November 15, 2006, General Abizaid was unequivocal that 
increasing our troop commitment is not the answer.

He said:




 I've met with every divisional commander--General Casey, 


 the corps commander, General Dempsey--we all talked together. 


 And I said, ''in your professional opinion, if we were to 


 bring in more American troops now, does it add considerably 


 to our ability to achieve success in Iraq?'' And they all 


 said no.


On December 29, General Casey said:




 The longer we in the U.S. forces continue to bear the main 


 burden of Iraq's security, it lengthens the time that the 


 government of Iraq has to take the hard decisions about 


 reconciliation and dealing with the militias. . . .They can 


 continue to blame us for all of Iraq's problems, which are at 


 base their problems.


Time and again our leaders in Vietnam escalated our military 
presence, and each new escalation of force led to the next. We 
escalated the war instead of ending it. And similar to Vietnam, there 
is no military solution to Iraq, only political. The President is the 
last person in America to understand that.

We must not only speak against the surge in troops, we must act to 
prevent it.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.