# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `159926cf79d68abfb3025dd79939c2b2`
`Mr. POE — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. POE. I want to thank the gentlelady for yielding time on this 
important issue.

Redeployment. Withdrawal. These words mean the same thing, ''we 
quit.'' ''Quitting'' Iraq is not a plan. It's not even a strategy; it 
is a total handoff of responsibility to an unstable government with an 
ill-prepared military.

I don't dispute that we must do more to ready Iraqis to handle their 
own security. I do insist, however, that we cannot suddenly leave the 
Iraqis scrambling to defend their new brand of democracy amidst chaos. 
That is what this ''leave at any cost'' plan would do: leave our 
enemies and those of the Iraqi people unfettered and free to pursue 
their diabolical agenda in Iraq and throughout the world.

So I would like to ask those who want to quit exactly what they plan 
to do to fight the terrorist operatives in Iraq when our troops turn 
around and leave. What is the plan?

I would also like to know, who, besides the ''New York Times'', is 
saying that the fight is lost in Iraq? Reports indicate that our troops 
are making progress. Sectarian murders in Baghdad have declined in the 
last 6 months. More Iraqis are coming to American troops with 
information about the terrorists. And Iraqi citizens are organizing 
against al Qaeda at the local level. Good for them.

Mr. Speaker, General Patton sailed with his soldiers from Algiers to 
Italy in World War II, and he said to them, ''No man is beaten until he 
thinks he is.'' This war is not over unless we quit. And when we quit, 
we are certainly defeated.

Here is what the defeatists say about the battle. They say that our 
troops were ill-prepared to go into battle, and there weren't enough of 
them; that they had inferior equipment; that they had improper uniforms 
for the extreme weather; U.S. intelligence was flawed; that we 
underestimated the resolve of the enemy; that Americans and our allies 
were killed by friendly fire. No, Mr. Speaker, this is not the war in 
Iraq, but this is the Battle of the Bulge in World War II, a battle 
that my father fought in. Those Americans, led by General Patton and 
others, did not run or quit because war is hard. You do not win wars by 
evacuating. And Americans won the Battle of the Bulge and broke the 
will of the enemy.

I ask this question: How does this plan to force the United States to 
withdraw from Iraq differ from al Qaeda's plan to force us to withdraw 
from Iraq? Why wouldn't al Qaeda celebrate if this bill is passed?



Mr. Speaker, General Patton went on to say to his troops, ''The glory 
of American arms, the honor of our country, the future of the whole 
world rests in our individual hands. See to it that you are worthy of 
this great trust.''

I do believe, Mr. Speaker, that the honor of our country is at stake 
again today, but that's not all. Our security, the security of Iraqis, 
and the future of democracy and liberty in the Middle East, all of 
these are in our hands.

Let us be worthy of this trust. And that's the way it is.

