# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `15a8855e8ba3a52f0623caf6bfcb87a1`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 9 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. With that, Mr. President, let me make some 
observations about the Defense authorization bill.

What Republicans would like to see is an open and comprehensive 
debate. We know this debate is going to include a discussion of our 
policy in Iraq. We welcome that too. There are a variety of different 
proposals on both sides of the aisle about how we ought to go forward 
on that most important issue. Nobody has any doubt that is the No. 1 
issue in this country, and we are certainly prepared to offer our 
suggestions, as well as to react to the Democratic suggestions about 
where we should go from here.

But a couple of words of caution are in order as we proceed. Everyone 
should know from the outset that Republicans will expect and insist on 
the freedom to improve this bill with our own amendments. We will be 
offering them and expect to have them voted on, as well as Democratic 
amendments.

Democrats have continually tried to block our efforts at improving 
legislation earlier in this session, as evidenced by the record pace of 
cloture motions we have been discussing on the floor that have been 
filed since January. I know there has been an effort to attempt to 
paint this record-setting pace of cloture motions as a reaction against 
alleged Republican intransigence, but, frankly, that is simply not the 
case. It is an effort to try to truncate the legislative process in 
such a way that works to the disadvantage of the minority.

The Senate has always been a place of cooperation. Most of us on both 
sides have been in the majority and minority recently. We know the 
different proposals that tend to please one and inhibit the other. The 
Senate is a ponderous place on purpose. It is exactly what Washington 
and the Founders predicted.


Republicans have insisted on our right to improve everything from 
ethics reform to the minimum wage bill this year. We have improved, we 
believe, everything we have touched, and we will continue to insist on 
our rights to do that.



Specifically, on this bill, the DOD authorization bill, which we will 
turn to at 3 o'clock, we will insist on amendments that respond 
aggressively and practically to the ongoing terrorist threat both here 
and abroad.

It is important to remember whom we are fighting. General Petraeus 
has said that 80 percent to 90 percent of the suicide bombers in Iraq 
are from outside the country, outside of Iraq. We are fighting al-
Qaida, other terror groups, and the states that support them.

We cannot allow these terrorists to gain a new sanctuary even closer 
to the United States than Afghanistan or to gain access to other 
ungoverned areas in the Middle East that will give them a new stage to 
carry out their attacks.

It has always been in the U.S. interest, and it remains in the U.S. 
interest, to maintain stability in the Persian Gulf. It is important 
not to forget that either. We need to guard against an emboldened Iran, 
which is facilitating and capitalizing on the weakness of Iraq for its 
own advantage on the world stage. We must reassure our allies in Iraq, 
the Middle East, and the world that America remains committed to 
fighting terrorism wherever it is found.

Finally, as we proceed, we must remember we are at war and that our 
enemies will use any means at their disposal to harm us. They intend to 
strike us at home and abroad. They will exploit any opening we give 
them, and they will use every tool at their disposal.

Everyone in this Chamber has America's best interests at heart. But 
it will fall on Republicans in this debate to be particularly awake to 
the complexity of the terrorist threat.

Now, it is no accident we have not been attacked at home in nearly 6 
years. We have kept terrorists at arm's length by bringing the fight to 
them. Republican amendments will build on the lessons we have learned 
over the past 6 years. They will reflect our commitment to security and 
continued vigilance, and we will insist they be heard. Republicans will 
succeed in improving this bill in ways that improve our war-fighting 
ability and our counterterrorism tools.

I yield the floor, Mr. President.