---
---

# None
## `15a98fe29b390feb00d75531bbc86f71`
`Mr. DORGAN — 16 June 2009`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, just prior to lunch, we had a vote on a 
cloture motion. The vote was 90 to 3. It was not some significant piece 
of public policy that will shake the Earth, it was a vote on the 
question of whether we could actually proceed to something called the 
Travel Promotion Act.

For those who do not know how the Senate works, you have to have a 
motion to proceed. Normally, a motion to proceed to a bill such as this 
would be done by unanimous consent and take just a nanosecond, no 
problem, a motion to proceed approved, proceed then to the bill, have a 
debate on the bill, and then vote on the bill.

But this is something called the Travel Promotion Act, which I will 
describe. It is bipartisan. I have offered it along with Senator John 
Ensign, a Republican from Nevada. The two of us, along with many other 
cosponsors, Republicans and Democrats in the Senate, believe this is an 
important piece of legislation for the Senate and for the Congress to 
pass. Despite that, we had to have a vote this morning on the motion to 
proceed: Shall we proceed to this? A cloture motion had to be filed. It 
took 2 days to ripen, and then we had a vote. It was 90 to 3. The 
answer was yes by 90 to 3. And now we have 30 hours postcloture that we 
have to wait until we can get to the bill. And then have another 
cloture motion filed. It is the most unbelievable, Byzantine example of 
how this place has sort of fallen off the rails--requiring cloture 
motions to be filed on things that then get a 90-to-3 vote, and then 
there is a requirement that we have to spend the next 30 hours waiting 
until we can actually get to the bill. Unbelievable. But it is an 
example of what has happened here. And the minority is requiring this 
of every single piece of legislation. It is a way to require the Senate 
to walk through wet cement and make almost no progress at all. I guess 
when you get nothing done and then you are able to boast that nothing 
has happened, maybe some people feel good. It does not make me feel 
very good.

But having complained about it, now let me at least describe what 
this bill is. We will get to the bill this week. It will have taken a 
difficult route to get there. Judging by the 90-to-3 vote, I assume 
ultimately, when the Senate passes this legislation, we will have very 
strong support because it is a bipartisan piece of legislation.

I am told Senator Ensign has had to leave today as a result of a 
family matter. I think Senator Martinez will be coming to the floor, 
who is also a cosponsor of this legislation. I appreciate


very much working with Senator Ensign and Senator Martinez; on this 
side, Senator Reid, the majority leader, a strong cosponsor, and so 
many others as well.

Let me describe what this issue is. The fact is, there is an effort 
to attract international tourism around this world. Why is that the 
case? Because international tourists; that is, people who visit other 
countries, spend a lot of money and create a lot of jobs. They support 
airlines, support hotels, support recreation facilities and theme 
parks. Plus, they have a chance to understand a little about that 
country before they go back home. So many countries around the world 
are very actively engaged in saying: Come to our country. They have 
very aggressive, very sophisticated promotion campaigns saying: Come to 
our country. We do not, but they do.

Here is an example of India: One special reason to visit India in 
2009. Anytime is a good time to visit the land of Taj. But there is no 
time like now. Incredible India.

Well, India is very interested, very promotional, saying: Come to 
India.

But it is not just India. Here is Ireland, big promotional campaign: 
Go where Ireland takes you.

A beautiful photograph of the majesty of Ireland.

An example of Australia: Looking for an experience to remember? 
Arrived. Departed. An adventure we will never forget. Go find yourself 
in Australia.

All over the world we have campaigns now, very aggressive campaigns, 
saying: Come to Italy. Vacation in Italy. Come to Great Britain. Come 
to Spain. See the wonders of Spain.

Why are countries doing that? Well, it is interesting. The average 
international traveler spends about $4,500 on an overseas trip. When 
they go to a country, they spend money. This creates jobs. So countries 
are aware of that, and they are very active in trying to encourage 
travelers to come to their country. Not so with our country so much 
since 9/11/2001. In fact, it is interesting that in 2008 we had 633,000 
fewer people come to this country from overseas than we had in 2000. 
Let me say that again. In 2008, 633,000 fewer people from overseas came 
to visit our country than in the year 2000. In fact, here is an example 
of what is happening around the world: visitors to the United States--
this is 2000 to 2008--a 3-percent decrease; visitors to other countries 
in international travel, a 40-percent increase. The fact is that we are 
losing ground and losing shares of the international travelers' tourism 
dollars and the ability also to explain to them a bit, by having them 
see this country, what America is all about.

Well, why is that happening? Headlines like this post-9/11/2001. We 
are very concerned about people coming into this country, and we 
tightened the visa requirements so that there were long lines and very 
long waits in order to try to come to this country. Here are some of 
the headlines:

Sydney Morning Herald: ''Coming to America is not easy.''

The Guardian: ''America--more hassle than it's worth?''

The Sunday Times in London: ''Travel to America? No thanks.''

Look, the fact is, we want to change that.

This legislation is bipartisan. A group of us Republicans and 
Democrats who want to create jobs in this country and want to attract 
international tourism to this country want to change this perception 
that somehow international travelers are not welcome here.

So here is what we believe. We believe that to have people come to 
this country is to see its wonders. It is the only one like it on the 
face of this planet. It is an extraordinary place. There is so much to 
see and so much to do. And when we have done polling, and so on, when 
international travelers leave this country, they have an unbelievably 
positive impression of the United States of America, and that is very 
important. At a time when there has been so much discussion about our 
country going it alone and doing this or that, we have suffered some in 
international areas. But the fact is, inviting international tourism to 
our country is job creating, it produces a boost to our economy, but it 
also allows people to come here and understand what this country is 
about and inevitably leave with a great impression.

Here is what we do with this piece of legislation. We set up a 
nationally coordinated travel promotion program. I might say that if 
somebody says: Well, you are going to set up something new, well, you 
know what, the Congressional Budget Office has a score for this. They 
have to decide what everything costs or what the consequences of 
everything will be.

This is one of the few pieces of legislation to be brought to the 
floor of the Senate that the Congressional Budget Office estimates 
would actually reduce the budget deficit by half a trillion dollars 
over the next 10 years. Let me say that again. This is one of the few 
pieces of legislation you are going to get a chance to vote on that 
reduces the Federal budget deficit by $425 million in the next 10 
years.

How does it do that? Well, the fact is, it creates a private-public 
partnership and it establishes a corporation for travel promotion which 
will be an independent nonprofit corporation governed by an 11-member 
board of directors appointed by the Secretary of Commerce. It also 
creates an Office of Travel Promotion in the Department of Commerce to 
develop programs to increase the number of international visitors to 
our country. It sets up a travel promotion fund, and that is financed 
by a private-public matching program. The Federal contributions will be 
financed by a $10 fee paid by foreign travelers from visa waiver 
countries, and it will be collected in the electronic system for travel 
authorizations which already exists.


Let me make the point that many other countries do exactly this. It 
does not in any way retard international travel. Australia charges a 
$37 departure fee; Guatemala, $30; Mexico, $11 to $38; Thailand, a $14 
departure fee. And the list goes on. We are suggesting a very modest 
$10 fee for international travelers, from the visa waiver countries, 
and that will finance this piece of legislation that we have had now to 
file a cloture motion on on the motion to proceed to this issue and for 
which there was a 90-to-3 vote, an affirmative vote.

Here is some discussion about our legislation.

I introduced this in the last session of the Congress. We had over 50 
cosponsors, Republicans and Democrats. We have reintroduced it now with 
wide bipartisan cosponsorship.

The Detroit Free Press says:




 Doesn't it make sense to encourage, at no cost to 


 taxpayers, foreign visitors to come here and leave us with 


 some money? There's no good reason not to pass this bill.


The Dallas Morning News says:




 The Travel Promotion Act is a sensible first step toward 


 putting the welcome mat back on America's doorstep.


The Orlando Sentinel says:




 Our position, charging international travelers $10 to pay 


 for the promotion, makes sense.


The Los Angeles Times:




 Considering that the U.S. spends hundreds of millions of 


 dollars on public diplomacy with dubious results, and nearly 


 nothing on promoting tourism, it might do well to invest a 


 little money in wooing travelers.


The list goes on of newspapers that have endorsed the legislation.

This has been a pretty difficult decade for our country in many ways. 
Our country was attacked on 9/11/2001. Several thousand innocent 
Americans were killed by terrorists. Following that, we suffered a 
recession almost immediately, then a war in Afghanistan, and then a 
long protracted war in Iraq that cost an enormous amount of money and 
was very controversial all around the world. It has been a very 
difficult decade.

As I indicated when I started, 8 years later, we have so many fewer 
visitors coming to the United States. I think during part of this 
decade there was a notion by some that we were not welcoming visitors 
to the United States; we did not want them to come here very much.

That was not true, but I think that was a sense of some: You want to 
come to the United States, get in line, it is going to take a long time 
to get a visa. Why? Because we are concerned. We are screening 
everybody. We are doing all of these kinds of things. Well, the fact 
is, no one ever intended to decide we were not going to welcome people 
to this country. By far, the most effective way to describe to the 
world what America is about and the unbelievable values that exist and 
the openness and the wonders of this great democracy, by far, the best 
way to do that is to say


to people from around the world: Come here. Vacation here. You are 
welcome here. We want you here, to experience and visit America and 
some of the best attractions and some of the best people and be a part 
of what we are and then go home and remember what the United States is 
about.

So that is what we are trying to do. It has been too long, but 
finally we are now putting together a piece of legislation that says: 
We are not willing to go through another 8 or 10 years like the last 8 
or 10 years where our share of international tourism dramatically 
decreased.

We want the next 8 or 10 years to show a substantial increase in 
people from around the world coming to visit America. And the fact is, 
it will create substantial numbers of jobs. That is important. I mean, 
as you know, we ran into a financial ditch, have an economic crisis of 
sorts. The number of unemployed Americans rises every month, and we are 
hoping that turns around soon. But in the meantime, this is something 
constructive and positive and concrete we can do to try to boost this 
economy. It does not even cost money. This will save almost half a 
trillion dollars in the next 10 years by reducing the Federal deficit.

Again, I wish some of my colleagues were not deciding to see if they 
could run everybody through the traps for the next few days before we 
get to what I think will be a very positive vote on a very constructive 
idea that will benefit this country. But if it takes 4 days or 2 days 
or 1 day, whatever the moment, I think most of us will feel as if we 
have done something good for the country.

In the midst of all of the other very controversial issues and very 
important issues, some of which are urgent, the questions of: How do 
you rein in increasing health care costs? What do you do about a 
country that is 70 percent dependent on oil that comes from foreign 
countries? What do you do about the issue of protecting our climate and 
climate change? How do you deal with the Federal budget deficit that 
seems galloping out of control? There are all these big issues.


In the middle of all that--all of which, in my judgment, we are 
required to address in order to put America on a different course 
toward a better future--in the middle of all that, this piece of 
legislation, the Travel Promotion Act of 2009, might be one small 
glimmer--just one small bit of hope--for more bipartisanship rather 
than less. Because this piece of legislation is so persuasive about the 
interests of this country, we have Republicans and Democrats who have 
come together to say: Let's do this. Let's do this in the interest of 
this country's economic future.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.