---
---

# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `15ad7346598458c66ae117f6b0d8956f`
`Mr. BYRD — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, along with my Democratic colleagues, I 
intend to vote for the Reid resolution, S.J. Res. 9. I have some 
concerns with the approach in this resolution--I firmly believe that 
the Congress must address the open-ended 2002 authorization to use 
force in Iraq, which is not dealt with in this resolution--but I 
certainly agree with the Reid resolution's intent. There is a diversity 
of views in both parties about our policy in Iraq, but a majority of 
the American people are united in the firm belief that a change of 
course is long overdue. Fifty-nine percent of Americans believe that 
the United States made a mistake in sending troops to Iraq. Sixty 
percent favor withdrawing all U.S. troops by the end of next year. The 
American people are speaking, and finally their Representatives in the 
Congress are listening.

Some of us may disagree about the best way to effect a change of 
course in Iraq, but this debate shows one thing--it is time for a new 
plan, time for a real discussion, not more empty rhetoric about ''stay 
the course'' versus ''cut and run.'' This administration is fond of 
referring to the powers of the Commander in Chief, but surely the most 
important responsibility of any Commander in Chief is to provide solid 
leadership. As President Harry Truman said: ''The buck stops here.'' 
But we are entering the fifth year of this misbegotten war, and this 
President has failed time and time again to articulate a plan, a plan 
to give a clear reason for why we are in Iraq or to outline a strategy 
for bringing our troops home. Stubbornly denying that Iraq is engaged 
in a civil war is not leadership. The White House has abdicated its 
leadership on this issue, so it is left to the Congress--that is us--to 
speak for the American people.


The hue and cry raised from my colleagues across the aisle and from 
the White House is that those who do not support this disastrous war do 
not support the troops. Three thousand one hundred and eighty-nine 
soldiers have now died in Iraq. Thousands more have been wounded and 
maimed and have come home to find outrageous and dehumanizing 
treatment. Truly supporting our troops means not putting them into 
harm's way without a clear plan for success and unless it is absolutely 
necessary. It means not asking our sons and daughters, our best and our 
brightest, to make the ultimate sacrifice without being able to 
articulate exactly why they are being asked


to do so and exactly what we will accomplish as a result. Supporting 
our troops means treating our wounded men and women with dignity. It 
means not sending them to recuperate in mold-filled rooms without 
supervision and without assistance in a morass of paperwork. It means 
not sending back to the front lines those too wounded to fight, as this 
administration is doing.

I continue to receive letters and phone calls from service men and 
women, troops currently serving in Iraq, thanking me for my stand--yes, 
my stand--against this war. The troops are not the ones criticizing our 
attempts to bring them home. The troops are the first to say there is 
no military solution to the situation in Iraq, only a political 
solution. The Iraqis will have to assume leadership of their own 
country and start making political compromises to overcome the ethnic 
and sectarian divisions that are splitting the country apart. There is 
no military solution, none, no military solution for Iraq. A national 
reconciliation is the only solution for that war-torn country, and we 
do not need another 3,000 young lives lost to learn that.

We were wrong--and I said so at the time--to invade. We were wrong to 
think that victory would be quick and easy. We are wrong to stay on in 
an occupation which earns us only hatred with no end, no end, no end in 
sight. Our young men and our young women now find themselves in the 
crossfire of a civil war. Nearly every one--nearly every one--except 
our Commander in Chief realizes that there is no military solution. To 
continue this ill-advised and demoralizing war only damages our 
wonderful country in the eyes of the world and chews up lives, both 
American and Iraqi. I have said it before--yes, I will say it again, 
yes--democracy cannot be force-fed from the point of a gun.

Let this debate mark the beginning of a way out, out, out of Iraq. 
Let this Congress begin to understand why the Framers of this 
Constitution gave the power to declare war to the Congress, the 
representatives of the people we send to fight and to die for our 
country. Let us begin to put some sanity--sanity--in our foreign policy 
again.

I yield the floor.