---
---

# None
## `15b4b274f34bf483180ba97b8982fb2e`
`Mr. BUNNING — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise tonight to play my small part in 
this pointless political play put on by the Senate majority leader. It 
is an insult to the brave men and women in our Armed Forces and to the 
American taxpayer that we are here tonight for no other reason than for 
a publicity stunt. Instead of following the script written by MoveOn, 
like my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, I want to be honest 
and frank with the American people.

I hear Democrats every day talk about public opinion polls on Iraq 
and on the President's approval rating. To some extent they are right. 
The American people are not satisfied with the war in Iraq and the 
President is at an all-time low in his approval rating.

But I rarely hear my friends on the other side of the aisle talk 
about public opinion polls of Congress. It is obvious why. President 
Bush has a higher approval rating than the current democratically led 
Congress. I have never been accused of being a political strategist, 
but I have been around this town long enough--over 21 years--to know 
that the American people resent their leaders for so often taking the 
politically expedient path instead of doing what they think is right.

The American people see right through this charade going on tonight. 
It is more political theater: phony images of cots, toothpaste, and 
sleepy politicians, meant to convince people that what goes on here at 
3 in the morning may actually do some good. But it doesn't do any good.

In fact, it does a lot of bad. Because this debate is more about a 
political show and placating the ''MoveOn'' folks, than it is about 
talking about the real issue at hand. It is appalling that we use a 
bill that provides vital funding of our Nation's military as a 
political smokescreen for Democrats to gain points in the polls.

The safety and security of the brave men and women in our Armed 
Forces is not a game to me. Our troops should never be used as a basis 
to stage a cheap political stunt. If the Senate truly supported our 
troops, we would be here debating the nuts and bolts of the Department 
of Defense authorization bill. Instead, we find ourselves back debating 
whether to cut and run from Iraq, as we have done countless times 
before tonight.

Democrats would like for you to believe that Republicans will not 
vote on the Reed-Levin amendment. Give me a break. I am happy to vote 
on the amendment right now. I plan to oppose it, as I have opposed a 
similar version Senator Levin offered 2 months ago.

It is a bad amendment. It calls for a premature withdrawal of 
American troops from Iraq before we have even had a chance to see the 
results of the surge. I wish to know how some of my colleagues know 
that the surge has already failed when it has only been in place for a 
month?

I wish to know how they know the situation in Iraq better than our 
commanders on the ground? The ink is not even dry on the President's 
plan and


Democrats are already declaring it a failure. This type of defeatist 
strategy is irrational and unfair.

It is important to remember the dangerous effect our debate in 
Washington can have on the message we are sending our enemies. Make no 
mistake about it, our enemies are watching us. They are watching us and 
using our debate on the war in Iraq to strengthen themselves. This 
morning, the new National Intelligence Estimate declared the United 
States is at an elevated threat level. It said our biggest threat is 
al-Qaida, specifically al-Qaida in Iraq.

This group is working to mobilize other extremist organizations in 
the region to mount a new attack against the United States. The report 
also found that al-Qaida will continue to acquire chemical, biological 
or nuclear materials for attacks; it will not hesitate to use them.

While al-Qaida is working to plan this attack, U.S. forces are 
working hand in hand with Iraqi security forces to break up this 
organization and root it out and root this terrorist network out.

This work is vital to our national security. We cannot forget the 
important lessons we learned from the tragedies of 9/11. There are 
still those out there who wish to do us harm. Wake up America. If we 
withdrew from Iraq, the terrorists will likely follow us home.

Democrats would like for us to believe we can responsibly leave Iraq 
and the conflict will end. This is delusional. Make no mistake, if we 
leave Iraq prematurely, there will be widespread chaos in the Middle 
East. Iran will work with Syria to dominate the region, while Sunni 
States scramble to oppose them. They will use any means possible to 
acquire the resources to bolster their nuclear weapons program in an 
effort to combat and conquer the United States.

The Kurds in Iran will form their own country, possibly with the 
Kurds in Turkey, Syria, and Iran. This could lead to an armed conflict 
between the Kurds and the Turkish Government. There will be widespread 
attacks to wipe out Israel and to topple the democratic Government of 
Lebanon. These pillars of democracy in the Middle East that once stood 
as an example for freedom within the region will crumble.

The Government of Iraq will fail, and there will be civil war within 
the country. This will result in massive civilian casualties and 
displacement. Most importantly, our national security will be in 
jeopardy. This afternoon, we passed, by a large majority, Senator 
Cornyn's amendment that said we should not leave a failed state in 
Iraq. It also said we should not pass any legislation that will 
undermine our military's ability to prevent a failed state in Iraq.

I ask my colleagues: What are we doing right now? We are debating 
Senator Levin's amendment that will, without a doubt, result in a 
failed state in Iraq. Let me be clear to my colleagues that believe 
they can support both amendments. The strategy of cut and run will lead 
to a failed Iraq and will undermine our military's mission.

But Democrats have already decided the surge has failed before it has 
a chance to work. These are the same people who voted to overwhelmingly 
confirm General Petraeus and are now refusing to wait to hear his 
report in September. This is exactly the type of message our enemy 
wants to hear.

Well, I, for one, am working hard to send our enemies a different 
message: The United States will not back down from this fight. I stand 
behind our troops and General Petraeus. I promised in person, in my 
office, to General Petraeus, that I would wait to hear his report this 
fall. I intend to keep my promise. I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
The safety and security of all Americans depends on it.

I yield the floor.