---
---

# None
## `15b65d373b2251f9a93becc37167306f`
`Mr. INHOFE — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, since we are having so much fun here, let 
me go


back and respond to the Senator's response. After this, I have a very 
significant meeting I am going to have to attend. I am going to have to 
reserve the remainder of my time, go attend that, and come right back 
here. I have to leave temporarily. Let me go ahead and cover these last 
12 things the Senator from Massachusetts has said.

First of all, I think he is right on this--I found out he was right. 
I had said the cost of this and the effect of this would be to delay 
projects. I found out, after he said it and I found out it is true, 
that his bill starts from this point forward. The reason I didn't know 
that is because his amendment was not filed until last night, and I was 
on my way back from Iraq last night, so I was not aware of this. It 
doesn't change my argument, though. The argument is this is another 
step which has to be taken any time we have to go through any kind of a 
process.

I am sure, when we have the next Transportation reauthorization bill, 
he will have an amendment saying we have to know for each project how 
this could affect climate change. It really doesn't make that much 
difference.

The second thing, he said Kyoto is not really on the table. I am glad 
to know that because whether you call it Kyoto or something else is not 
important. It is still going to have to be some kind of restriction, 
some kind of carbon tax, some kind of cap-and-trade policy. When you 
do, it is going to cost money. So, yes, I used the Wharton Econometric 
Survey to demonstrate clearly that this is a tax increase of $2,700 on 
each family of four. However, the more recent bills--I grant to the 
Senator from Massachusetts, we are talking about this. We are talking 
about the ones that are more recent than this. The more recent ones, 
done by MIT, the Massachusetts--I stress that--Institute of Technology, 
show that the Sanders-Boxer bill's cost is about $4,500 for each family 
of four. McCain-Lieberman would be $3,500. So if you would rather not 
use Kyoto, that is fine. We will use some of the more recent ones. 
Nonetheless, it will be something equal to 10 times the largest tax 
increase in contemporary history.

He said also that there is not one peer-reviewed scientist--or study 
that substantiates what we are talking about. So let me just read them 
again here to make sure we understand what this is.

Two weeks ago, the top hurricane scientist in the U.S. Government--
indeed, one of the top hurricane scientists in the world--published a 
peer-reviewed study in the scientific Journal EOS that concluded from 
the evidence that ''hurricanes in the Atlantic have not increased for 
more than a century.'' Peer reviewed. There it is.

Another one is a peer-reviewed study published in the April 18, 2007, 
issue of the science journal Geophysical Research Letters which found:




 If the world continues to warm, vertical wind sheer, which 


 literally tears apart storms, would also rise. These winds 


 would decrease the number and severity of storms we would 


 otherwise have.


In other words, it would actually have a decreasing effect. Again, it 
is peer reviewed.

We had a third one, too. We have several of those which are peer 
reviewed. So that statement is not correct.

Let's see, the fourth point is Inhofe said this is some kind of a 
global conspiracy. No, Inhofe didn't say that; Jacques Chirac said 
that, and I quoted him. I have quoted him, so there would be no reason 
to repeat it; it would be redundant, although it might be worth 
redundancy here. Jacques Chirac said--and he wasn't talking about Kyoto 
having anything to do with climate change.




 Kyoto represents the first component of an authentic global 


 governance.


That is not Senator Jim Inhofe saying that; that is Jacques Chirac.

I quoted other people--Margot Wallstrom, who is the Environmental 
Minister from the EU, or was at that time. She said it is about 
leveling the playing field worldwide. Again, the Senator from 
Massachusetts is wrong. It wasn't Senator Inhofe; it was Jacques 
Chirac.

No. 5--I always enjoy this one--they use the consensus that the 
world--you know, the Flat Earth Society. They have it backward. In 
fact, this is what we are faced with, the same thing science was faced 
with back when they thought the world was flat. They thought the Earth 
was flat, and that was the consensus. All the experts agreed on that at 
that time. Then we found out with new science that it was not. That is 
exactly, precisely what is happening in this case.


They all thought at that time that manmade gases were causing climate 
change. Now they readily admit and say--and I will be glad to read them 
again. I plan on yielding back a bunch of time because we do want to 
get to voting before too long. But I read all the scientists who are 
very strong in their consensus, and these were the scientists who were 
the strongest pro-global-warming extremists around 10 years ago, but 
they have changed their minds. It is in the record. I already read it 
about an hour ago.

Then, No. 6, the statement the Senator from Massachusetts said, the 
IPCC survey--that is the United Nations--was talking about 2,000 
scientists agree to it. It is not 2,000 scientists. What he is quoting 
from is the summary for policymakers. Every time they have an IPCC 
meeting--they have had five now, I believe--they start out with a 
policy summary for policymakers. These are the politicians, not the 
scientists. They are the ones who believe it. Yet, even though they are 
strongly on the other side, they have to defend their position. It was 
the United Nations that started this whole thing. The IPCC was the 
group that did it.

It is going to be very difficult for them to change their position, 
so gradually they are coming over to our side.

The next thing the Senator from Massachusetts was criticizing me for 
was talking about minimizing the sea level rise. I am not. That is the 
IPCC. That is the United Nations. They said prior to this year's report 
that it was going to rise 39 inches over the next 100 years--until this 
year. They came out and they said: We will reduce that. Instead of 39 
inches, it will be somewhere between 7 and 23 inches. Every time they 
come out with a new report, they reduce that sea level rise. Again, it 
is not Inhofe saying it; it is the IPCC talking about it.

No. 8, the greenhouse gas effect. I agree with this. The greenhouse 
gas effect gives life. We need to have that. The question is, What are 
the manmade gases? We call them anthropogenic gases, CO2, 
methane, some others. These are primarily what they are talking about. 
Do these have a result of increasing temperatures? Is it increasing 
from natural causes or is it increasing from manmade causes?

Keep in mind, we have charts that show throughout the beginning of 
recorded history it has been like this. You know, people don't 
understand. God is still up there. We have natural things that are 
taking place. It gets warmer, gets cooler, gets warmer, gets cooler. 
Every time it does, I have an interesting presentation where we talk 
about the hysteria we see in the press, only to find out this was 
something in the New York Times in 1895, the same thing as they are 
talking about today.

This happens, natural causes are out there, and, yes, you need to 
have the greenhouse effect. It gives life. The question is, What do 
manmade gases--how do they increase it?

Put that Wiggly chart up one more time, the Tom Wiggly chart. This is 
the scientist who was commissioned by Al Gore during the Clinton-Gore 
administration. He said that if all developed nations signed the Kyoto 
treaty and lived by its emission requirements, it would reduce the 
temperature only by seven one-hundredths of 1 degree in 50 years. It is 
not even measurable. This is not me talking. Again, these are the 
scientists. They are scientists I didn't commission. That was done by 
Al Gore.

I am glad for the correction on Jim Hanson. He said Jim Hanson was 
not given a grant by the Heinz Foundation. Instead of that, he was just 
given a check. I recant what I said. He was not given a grant for 
$250,000; he was given a check for $250,000.

The Senator from Massachusetts talked about the Byrd-Hagel amendment. 
Let's remember what that amendment was. The amendment said--and this 
passed by 95 to nothing in this Senate. I was standing here. I voted. I 
don't know whether the Senator from Massachusetts was here. I assume he 
was.

Anyway, what it was, after they signed this protocol, they wanted to


submit it to the Senate for ratification. That is the process you have 
to go through. The President and administration can sign it, but it has 
to be ratified. Thank God it has to be ratified, and all these other 
treaties do, so we at least read them. So the Byrd-Hagel amendment was 
passed by 95 to 0--that is unanimous from everyone who was here--that 
said we will not ratify the Kyoto treaty if either of the two following 
is true: No. 1, that we are not requiring the developing nations to do 
the same thing the developed nations do, and No. 2, that it would be 
economically devastating for our country.

We know what it is going to cost in terms of how it relates to the 
largest tax increase in history, and we know also that China and the 
developing nations have no interest. China will become the largest 
emitter of CO2 this year, way ahead of schedule. They are 
going to be the largest emitter, and they are sitting back laughing at 
us. I think we have only put on line one coal-fired generating plant to 
give this country the energy to run this country in the last 15 years--
let me correct that. In the 15 years between 1990 and 2005, we didn't 
put on line any new coal-fired generating plants. At the same time we 
are not doing anything, China is cranking out one every 3 days.

Now, of the people standing on the floor of the Senate, I know 
Senator Dorgan is concerned about jobs, life in this country and other 
countries as well when we run out of electricity. Right now we are 
dependent upon coal for 53 percent of the energy it takes to run this 
great machine we call America.

Now, if you pull 53 percent out, this is where the corporations make 
money, those who are competing with coal. They make a fortune. Who 
pays? The poor pay. There was a very interesting study done not too 
long ago. It is not just a matter of the tax increase, CBO, 2 weeks 
ago, came out with a report that said, yes, it is going to cost this 
amount of money. But the worst part of it is it is going to cost the 
poor, people on fixed incomes. Those are the people who have to spend a 
larger percentage of their income on energy, on heating their homes and 
those things that are a necessity.

So, anyway, the Senator from Massachusetts talked about the Byrd-
Hagel amendment. It is still out there. It still has 95 Senators who 
said: We don't want to ratify any program that is not going to apply 
equally to Mexico and India and China and other developing nations.

Then, I guess, No. 11, the point he made when he was talking about 
the economy, saying, oh, this is not true, well, I have a great deal of 
respect for the junior Senator from Massachusetts, but would you rather 
believe him or would you rather believe the Wharton Econometric Survey 
in conjunction with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology?

Look, I know I am not as smart as most of you guys around here. So I 
go to the areas where they are smart. I know where the scientists are. 
I would rather quote scientists who do know rather than stand here and 
tell you how smart I am because I am not. But I know how to read these 
papers. I do know for a fact the scientists have come over to our side.

I would suggest anyone who wants to really get into this thing, I 
have got a Web site, which is www.epw.senate.gov. Now, go to that. We 
have literally thousands, not hundreds but thousands of scientists who 
are now saying the science is not there. You cannot say there is a 
consensus.

Lastly, Senator Boxer, we are getting along real fine on this bill. 
She does not want to kill it; I do not want to kill it. This amendment 
is not going to pass. So I think the bill will pass.

But they say the Corps of Engineers is already doing this. If the 
Corps of Engineers is already making this evaluation on projects as to 
what effect they are going to have, then why do we need this amendment? 
I would suggest we do not need this amendment.

I reserve the remainder of my time. How much time do I have 
remaining?