# None
## `15c150f90bef991f99d42eed41a01b10`
`Mrs. MILLER of Michigan â€” 7 March 2007`

---


Mrs. MILLER of Michigan. I certainly appreciate the gentleman for 
yielding some time to me here today.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in very strong, extremely strong support of this 
particular piece of legislation we are looking at today, the Water 
Quality Investment Act of 2007. I am actually a brand new member of the 
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee this term, but I have 
wanted to get on this committee ever since I came to Congress, and it 
is particularly because of issues like this that we are talking about 
today.

My home State of Michigan actually has more shoreline than any other 
State in the Nation, except Alaska. If you think of the mitten of 
Michigan and think of the Great Lakes, of course, surrounding, fresh 
water and clean water and the Great Lakes, I mean, we are the Great 
Lakes State. It is an economic impetus for us. It really is our very 
identity.

In fact, the Great Lakes system is actually one-fifth of the fresh 
water supply of the entire planet. Sometimes people don't recognize 
that, but they are one-fifth of the fresh water supply of the world. In 
my area, in the Detroit area, actually, there are over 5 million 
Americans just right there in southeast Michigan who are drafting their 
fresh water supply from the Great Lakes, and, of course, the Canadians 
on the other side, our great neighbors to the north as well. But these 
waters are absolutely a national treasure, and I think we need to do 
everything that we possibly can within our power to preserve them and 
to protect them.

Of course, one of the great problems is that many of the communities 
along the shoreline have very, very old, very antiquated 
infrastructure. It is decaying infrastructure; it is not right sized. 
It has all the problems that are not particularly inherent to a city 
like Detroit or an area like southeast Michigan.

We see it all around the Nation, particularly in our industrialized 
areas there, and we have not been capable, or we have not had the 
political will, I should say, of spending the dollars to keep up with 
the growth with our underground infrastructure. Of course, people don't 
see the underground infrastructure a lot of times. We are not thinking 
about it as we should.

Local communities, of course, are struggling with declining tax 
dollars. In Michigan, we are having a huge amount of decline in State 
revenue sharing as well. They have very tight budgets, and even though 
they have had their best efforts, they just have not, the local 
communities in the State, have not been able to keep up with the 
infrastructure needs to keep our water quality clean.

We in this Congress have invested tax dollars in so many things that 
our constituents have questions. Somebody was just mentioning we maybe 
spent more money on water systems and infrastructure in the country of 
Iraq than we have in our own Nation in recent years. Some would say 
that some of the things we do here are not in the national interest. 
But that is not the case, not the case with this very, very important 
piece of legislation.

I believe that this legislation will provide vital assistance to 
States and local communities throughout our entire Nation to meet the 
critical need,


to keep our water clean and pure. That is a charter that we all share.

Whatever our constituency is, we are the stewards of this fantastic 
country and magnificent treasures like the Great Lakes or so many other 
areas around the country, and we need to make sure that we do keep our 
water clean and pure for our generation as well as the next.

In fact, and let me just mention, several months ago, actually with a 
Canadian-based research group, we do a lot of work, as you might 
imagine, in Michigan with our Canadian counterparts there. They were 
calculating that the United States and Canadian cities dump a combined 
24 billion gallons of municipal sewage directly into the water systems 
each and every year, which is the equivalent of more than 100 Olympic-
size swimming pools full of raw sewage each and every day.



In fact, they characterized the study as we were treating our Great 
Lakes like a toilet is what they said; and, unfortunately, there is a 
very choking grain of truth to that.

So I certainly support the legislation. I want to commend Chairman 
Oberstar and Ranking Member Mica for bringing it forward. I urge all of 
my colleagues to support this very bipartisan piece of legislation that 
is so important to our Nation.