# AMERICA'S FINANCIAL CRISIS
## `15ce7a8f3b45a50d9d6a2560fa4dd08a`
`Mr. AKIN — 28 January 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate your patience in working with us 
here and allowing us to have this time to talk about something which is 
a very important and serious topic which has captured the attention, I 
believe, of most Americans: the work of the House of Representatives in 
Washington, D.C., today on the floor of the House. We have in a way 
created history here in a unique way.

We have heard for the last 6 or 7 years, depending if you are talking 
about the war in Afghanistan or the war in Iraq, about the tremendous 
costs of these two wars, particularly the war in Iraq. Year after year 
we hear from all different sources, all different political stripes, 
that these were very, very expensive wars. And yet, if you were to add 
up the total cost of the war in Iraq over the past 6 years and add that 
to the cost of the war in Afghanistan for the last 7 years, adding 
those two numbers together, in one fell swoop this afternoon we spent 
more money than that, in excess of $800 billion.

I want to repeat that, because this is a fact that I think people are 
starting to add it up and say this is what is going on, but I don't 
know if that has sunk into people's minds:

Today, on this floor, we voted on a bill which will spend more money 
than the war in Afghanistan and the war in Iraq added up.

Now, how did we get to this strange position where we are so 
concerned about our economy, so concerned about deficits, so concerned 
about the government overspending? We have heard that from both 
political parties for some period of time. How do we get to the point 
where, in one fell swoop, we just passed $800-plus billion?

Well, in order to try to put that in perspective, what I am planning 
to do tonight, and I am going to be joined with a number of my 
colleagues of very great reputation from all over the country; what I 
am going to be doing tonight is talking about how this developed, what 
is the nature of the problem, how did it occur; and then, how do we 
scope how big the problem really is, and what are the natures of the 
different ways that people might want to solve the problem?

The bill that we passed today was theoretically to solve a problem, 
and so let's go back just a little bit and say, how did we get into 
this particular mess that we are in?

Well, it goes back quite a ways to the Jimmy Carter years when we 
created various programs to try to help people to be able to get loans 
on houses, people that lived in areas where certain particular 
geographic areas were hard to get loans. And so the Carter 
administration put together the Community Reinvestment Act, and it was 
originally saying that when we are doing these different home loans, 
that we need to have some mechanism so that we can create some way for 
people that live in some more difficult areas to get loans in, for them 
to try to be able to get loans. I would suppose you would call it the 
economically disadvantaged areas. Well, that was under the Carter 
years.

Now, when we move forward in time, under President Clinton what was 
done was it changed this Community Reinvestment Act and it said that 
and it increased the percentages of the loans that had to be made from 
a banker's point of view to people who were not as good risks. In fact, 
it demanded that there were loans made to people who were just flat a 
bad risk and very likely would not be able to pay the loan.



At the same time in the 1970s, we created Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, 
and these were two quasi-governmental agencies, and the purpose of them 
was also to provide loans for people in the sort of middle-income type 
bracket of housing so they could get loans at a reasonable rate. So 
Freddie and Fannie were born. They were really not quite government and 
they were not quite private. They were in the in-between zone, and they 
started more and more to make real estate loans, to the point that a 
few years ago when Freddie and Fannie got into trouble, more than half 
of the home loans in America had been made through Freddie and Fannie. 
So they had grown over the years to tremendously large quasi-
governmental organizations.

What happened under the Clinton administration was Clinton forced 
Freddie and Fannie to take a whole lot of loans, loans that were not 
going to be very good loans, and he said you have to take them along 
with the other loans that you are taking. So the government, as a 
matter of policy, forced Fannie and Freddie to make loans to people who 
were going to have a hard time for some of them to pay back.

This starts to go along at the same time with Greenspan reducing the 
interest rates, so there was a whole lot of money available for people 
to put into houses. And probably many realize now when we talk about 
2001, 2002, everybody's home values were going up like a skyrocket. 
Everybody was happy as their house was getting more and more valuable. 
Just in the 2000s alone, they doubled. And many people took secondary 
loans on their homes.

So this easy money in combination with the fact that you have now got 
all of these different speculators jumping into this housing market, 
and what happened was because of the fact that Freddie and Fannie were 
playing very, very loose with their rules and regulations, were taking 
loans. And they wouldn't ask anybody how much money they made. And they 
wouldn't ask whether they were able to pay or whether they were going 
to make a downpayment. They said, you want a loan, fine, we will give 
it to you, because the assumption was that you and I and the American 
taxpayer would back these Freddie and Fannie loans. But more and more 
loans were being made to all kinds of people, including speculators, 
where there was no way they would be able to pay those loans back.

So as the housing bubble burst. All of a sudden these loans started 
coming due and people were defaulting on their loans, and there were 
cries of crisis on Wall Street.

An additional fact that was going on here, you have the rating 
agencies, one of them is known as Standard & Poor's


and the other was Moody's, and I believe there was another major rating 
agency, what they would do, they would look at all of these loans that 
came to them, and they would rate them as to how good the loans were. 
Well, they wouldn't be asked to do any rating if they rated the loans 
not very good, so these loans were all rated AAA. That means this is 
good stuff, you can afford to invest in it.

So these loans were sliced and diced. They were sold all over the 
world, and many different banks and institutions held these loans on 
their books as an investment.

Well, what started to happen, these investments became of no value. 
People couldn't pay the loans. They started to realize what had 
happened was there was an absolute runaway on the loan process and the 
people that had gotten the loans didn't really have jobs and couldn't 
really pay off the loans. And so you started to have all of these 
mortgage-backed securities started to seize up, and the entire credit 
market started to seize up.

That was last fall, and it was that time when Secretary Paulson 
approached Members of Congress and said we have a huge crisis on our 
hands. It is a disaster, and what you all have to do is you have to 
give me $700 billion. And I would like it in a brown paper bag in 
unmarked currency, and I would like it in a hurry, too, please. A lot 
of congressmen were going: $700 billion? So you have the cycle of the 
first bailout.

Today we come to the second. We have already spent $350-plus billion 
of that $700 billion, and people could argue whether it has had any 
significant effect. Certainly it was not spent in a transparent way. 
Most people don't know if we got anything for our money, but it was a 
tremendous amount of money that was spent.

So today we come to the floor with the economy still in bad shape. 
Why is it in bad shape? Well, it is in bad shape for a couple of 
reasons. First, of these bad loans, only about half of them have come 
down and different institutions have had to write them off. There is 
still another half of what are called Alt-As or ARMs, there are two 
different kinds, that will probably also in the next 2 years be 
defaulting as well. So we have only drunk about half of the cup of 
poison of bad loans that were created by liberal policies and an 
unwillingness to regulate these quasi-governmental agencies.

I would like to call to your attention a New York Times article, not 
exactly a right-wing oracle, and this article is dated September 11, 
2003. It says, ''New agency proposed to oversee Freddie Mac and Fannie 
Mae.'' So it wasn't like everybody was asleep at the switch. People 
were starting to wake up in 2003 that Freddie and Fannie were out of 
control.

The beginning of this article, ''The Bush administration today 
recommended the most significant regulatory overhaul in the housing 
finance industry since the savings and loan crisis a decade ago.''

The Bush administration called on Congress to get these wild and 
woolly loans under control. And so what happened? Well, the Republican 
Congress passed a bill to do what the President was asking for, to put 
much tighter regulations on these loans so we are not making a whole 
lot of loans that are not going to be paid and create a huge crisis as 
the savings and loan crisis of a decade ago.

Here is an interesting quote in the same article, September 11, 2003. 
''These two entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, are not facing any 
kind of financial crisis.'' Who said that? Well, ''said Representative 
Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the ranking Democrat on the Financial 
Services Committee.''

Who is it that is overseeing this bill that we passed today? It is 
one and the same.

So in 2003, the Democrat Party, the Democrat ranking Financial 
Services Committee chairman, he is saying that Freddie and Fannie are 
not facing any kind of financial crisis. Now there are people who want 
to say that the economic problems that we are facing show that 
capitalism isn't any good. This has nothing to do with capitalism. This 
has everything to do with the practice of telling financial 
organizations that you must make loans that we know are going to fail. 
That is not a very smart thing and is not looking very smart now, but 
this is where we were in 2003.

And the article goes on to say that the opposition to the bill that 
we passed in the House and Senate was the Democrat Party, and the bill 
was not passed because we didn't have 60 votes, and so we didn't 
oversee Freddie and Fannie until the train wreck actually occurred.

So how did we get into the crisis? Well, the simple answer is we got 
into the crisis because we started to demand that financial 
institutions accept and make loans to people that really couldn't 
afford to pay for them.

Now that raises an interesting question. How compassionate is it, how 
compassionate is it really to be making loans to some family that can't 
afford their mortgage payments? You have a mom and dad and some kids in 
some house, and they start arguing and fighting because the mortgage 
payment is too much for them. And so they get the credit card and the 
credit card has a high debt level. And so they start to say you 
shouldn't have spent money because we have this big loan. So how is it 
compassionate to put someone in a house they can't afford? Yet that is 
what we were defending and doing, and that is what caused this 
financial problem.

Now the interesting thing is that people say when America catches 
cold, the world catches pneumonia. And so this little oversight in 
assuming that the American taxpayer was going to bail out loans that 
were made irresponsibly has had worldwide implications and has caused 
all kinds of trouble in major Wall Street corporations closing up, and 
banks hunkered down worried about more of these loans that are going to 
be coming due in the next 2 years.

People are very mad at the banks. They say we gave you all of this 
bailout money. Why aren't you using it to get the financial service 
markets up and going? The answer is because we are afraid that when the 
rest of these things come down, we are going to need this money to 
cover all of the bad debts that are made.

So that is really the nature of where we are. This is something that 
is a result of active decisions on the part of people in Congress who 
are supposed to be, among other things, responsible for keeping an eye 
on our currency and the solvency of our economy, and we just basically 
have ignored what was our responsibility.

Now this is not something that you can dump at the feet of 
Republicans. The President, and once again I want to read this, this 
was 2003, the article says, ''The Bush administration today recommended 
the most significant regulatory overhaul in the housing and finance 
industry since the savings and loan crisis a decade ago.'' This was 
something that we saw coming and it was something that the other party 
was unwilling to deal with. So that is how we got to where we are.

Now today, today we adopted spending over $800 billion. Now as I said 
before, $800 billion, it is hard for many of us to think about how much 
that is. But we have heard how expensive the Iraq war was, all these 
past 6 years: ''We can't afford this war in Iraq. We can't afford 
Afghanistan. That is bleeding us dry.''

So now facing this crisis, what are the solutions we have because it 
seems like a very dire thing and it certainly is very serious, 
something that deserves our full attention. What are the different 
tools that we have to deal with this big mistake that we have been 
dealt?

Well, there are basically two theories of economics, and one of them 
is called the Keynesian approach. It is older and has been around since 
the Great Depression. And the Keynesian approach says that the Federal 
Government needs to spend some money. If the Federal Government spends 
a whole lot of money, that will stimulate demand and people will want 
things and therefore somehow or other we are going to get out of this 
recession or depression if we just spend enough money with the Federal 
Government. Well, I guess that was an interesting thought when the 
budgets were closer to balanced.

But if that were true, we have already spent way more money than we 
have as a country. We are already in debt. We should have a great 
economy if that theory were true because we have already been spending 
a whole lot


of money. But that is the Keynesian approach. It seems by some degrees 
like the idea of grabbing your shoelaces and lifting up and flying 
around the room. If we just spend enough, everything will go okay. Can 
you imagine any American family that would dare to try such a strategy 
if they were in financial trouble with their family budget? Are they 
going to spend a whole lot of money and hope that it will make 
everything okay? I don't think so.

History seems to indicate the same result. When FDR used that 
approach with the first big recession that came along, he turned it 
into the Great Depression. He spent a tremendous amount of money on 
public works projects, and some of them might have been useful, but the 
net result in the economy was that the recession just kept going year 
after year after year, and we called it the Great Depression.

Now, he wasn't the only one who tried this. The Japanese tried this 
in the 1990s, and they basically had an entire decade of lack of 
productivity and complete stagnant economy in Japan because they did 
one massive spending bill after another thinking it was going to work 
to pull them out of a recession, and it just made matters worse and 
worse and worse.

In contrast to that economic approach is another thing that is 
typically called supply-side economics, and that is the theory that 
government really cannot stimulate the economy at all.



The only thing the government can do is tax or not tax. And when it 
does tax, it can slop money around. But the government cannot actually 
create wealth whatsoever. It merely can take wealth away from citizens 
and redistribute it or refuse to take the wealth.

Instead, the supply-side model suggests that the best way to deal 
with a recession is to try to allow the people who are the inventors, 
the investors and the various risk-takers and entrepreneurs, allow them 
to have money to spend on new ways of doing things to build 
productivity in America. Particularly targeted with this approach would 
be the small business people, because small business people provide 
about 80 percent of the jobs in America. So if you have small 
businesses going strong, people investing in new ways and better ways 
to do things in small businesses, obviously some of those ideas will 
succeed or fail. But the result is you drive numbers such as 
unemployment and the overall productivity of the economy. And this is 
called a supply-side model.

We have had several examples of the supply-side approach. One of the 
earlier ones was done by JFK, who was a Democrat, of course. He did a 
major tax cut. And he did the tax cut in the right areas, and the 
economy snapped back and responded very favorably. He was followed 
another number of years later by Ronald Reagan, who did the same thing. 
He did a very large tax cut. But he made sure that the money got into 
the hands of the people that are going to be able to create the 
productivity. And we had a decade of fantastic financial success and 
productivity in America as a result of Ronald Reagan's tax policies. 
People made fun of it at the time. They scoffed at him. But the reality 
was that the economy was very strong.

It was tried again just a few years ago when I was fairly new here in 
Congress, and that was in the second quarter of 2003. I have some 
charts here which show what happened. What we did in the second quarter 
of 2003, which is the vertical black line on a couple of these charts, 
what we did was, we reduced the taxes of capital gains and dividends. 
Now what that was calculated to do was to allow the people who were the 
small business investors, the small business owners and the 
entrepreneurs, it allowed them to keep more of their money that they 
earned and plow it back into the small businesses.

And so what was the result of this particular tax cut in the second 
quarter of 2003? Well, as you can see, this is a picture of gross 
domestic product. Now we had done some tax cuts in the first couple of 
years of the Bush administration. But you can see that the gross 
domestic product averaged about 1.1 percent, but was also up and down. 
It was pretty spotty. What you see happening here then, as a result of 
dividends and capital gains where we are pumping money into the small 
business, into the investors, you see this tremendous increase in gross 
domestic product running out to 2007 of 3.06 as opposed to 1.1.

Now this tax cut is set to expire before long. But you can see the 
impact of the supply-side model. We're not the only people who have 
tried this. The Irish did this. They dropped their taxes on businesses 
and small businesses, and Ireland has just been booming and is almost 
an exact opposite model of what happened in Japan.

You might ask, well, what happened with this gross domestic product? 
That sounds like some sort of a boring government number. How about 
telling me something about jobs? This is the same time period. You have 
got May of 2003. These lines going down are job losses. The average 
loss of jobs per month was 99,000 jobs a month during these earlier 
years of 2001 and 2002.

Now you take a look at when we do the dividends and capital gains and 
take a look at the jobs gained. We went from a loss of 99,000-plus jobs 
lost per month to a gain of 147,000 jobs gained per month. This is an 
example of the supply-side kind of model. What it is saying is that 
government should not be spending tons of money.

Government should be cutting back what it's doing. And, in fact, what 
government should be doing is allowing productivity to take place in 
the marketplace and allowing the people that own small businesses to 
make those investments which result then in employment, and it results 
in better gross domestic product.

But last of all, and this is kind of an interesting idea, take a look 
at the effect of Federal revenues. Now, it seems to almost make water 
run uphill when you say, hey, we're going to cut taxes. What would you 
expect would happen to Federal revenues? Well, you would expect the 
revenues to go down. If you lower the taxes, you're not going to 
collect as much money. But that is not what happens. Why is that not 
what happens?

Well, this is actually the result of Federal revenues. Take a look at 
where they turned around. Again, the beginning of 2003 and after 2003, 
after these tax cuts went into place, Federal revenues are going up 
even though we cut taxes. Now how could that be? How could that happen? 
How could that be true?

Well, think about it for a minute. Let's just say you are king for 
the day. And your job is to try and raise as much government revenue as 
you can to pay for the cost of government. And you're allowed to tax 
loaves of bread. Now you start to think in your mind, let's see, I 
could tax 1 penny per loaf and it would hardly be noticed. But then you 
start adding it up. And you say, I wouldn't get very much money that 
way.

Then you think, a-ha, I will charge them $100 a loaf. By golly, that 
will get a lot. But if you tried it, you would say, no, what is going 
to happen is nobody is going to buy a loaf of bread if you have a $100 
tax on it. I will get something else instead.

So common sense would say to tax somewhere between $100 a loaf and a 
penny a loaf. There is some optimum point where you adjust the tax and 
you are going to get the maximum amount of revenue.

So what has happened here is that we have taxed our citizens so much 
money that when we reduce taxes, the result is the economy surges and 
we end up with actually more tax revenue, which is what actually 
happened here following 2003. So this is the other approach.

There are two approaches. One is the Keynesian approach, spend tons 
and tons of money and somehow it is going to make everything better. Or 
the other one is, no, don't spend a lot of money. Let the money work in 
the hands of people that can be productive to build productivity, to 
build jobs, to build GDP and to allow the Federal revenues to increase.

And so we have these two approaches. Now, today, we had to take a 
choice, which approach are we going to use? And it was a straight party 
line vote, at least from the Republican side. Not one Republican 
supported this Keynesian idea of just slopping a tremendous amount of 
Federal spending--the money that we don't have, by the


way--as if that is going to fix this problem.

So our problem with it is, it was very courteous of the President to 
stop and pay us a visit yesterday, talk to us about what he wants to do 
with the economy and plead with us not to make it political. And it is 
not our objective to make it political. But the President said, but if 
you think it's not going to work, that is a different matter.

And so I stood up and talked to him. And I said, Mr. President, you 
have been very courteous talking with us today, but I think you made a 
couple of bad assumptions; and so my belief is that the package that 
you are proposing will not work. It is not only not going to work. We 
can't afford it, and not only can we not afford it, it's going to make 
matters worse; and here is why.

And so today we had a choice. We had a choice between the Keynesian 
model of spending a ton of money or the other model, which we proposed, 
which was not to spend a whole lot of money, but make sure that the 
money gets back in the hands of the small businessman and to allow 
American productivity to take place.

Well, as I said in my introduction at the beginning of my comments 
here tonight, what happened was we just passed an $800-plus billion. 
That is, once again, take all of the money for the cost of the war in 
Iraq, take all of the money for the cost of the war in Afghanistan over 
the past 6 and 7 years, and you put that together, and what do you end 
up with? You end up with the fact that this bill costs us more than all 
those wars. And that is on top of this big bailout from just a couple 
of months ago.

Can our economy handle that? What that does is it puts us more into 
debt than we were during World War II. As a percentage of our overall 
budget, we're getting close to 10 percent debt, whereas in World War 
II, we were looking at 6 percent.

I'm joined here by a good friend of mine, my colleague from just over 
in Iowa, just a State or so away from the great State of Missouri, and 
he is going to be joining us in just a minute to talk a little bit 
about his perspective on this absolutely incredible bill that we have 
just passed today.

So I would yield to the gentleman from Iowa.

If you would like to jump in here and tell me, what do you think 
about the fact that we just--I mean, I almost have to pinch myself, 
gentlemen, to think that just standing here a couple of hours ago, we 
just voted to spend $800 billion more than the cost of the war in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. There are other ways to look at that number.

Would you like to jump in?