---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `15db99129f043c5770ba0f9df1bfa57a`
`Mr. HAGEL — 9 July 2007`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Mr. President, I appreciate the time.

I rise to support the Webb amendment on troop readiness. The 
distinguished junior Senator from Virginia has taken, once again, an 
important leadership role on an issue that is as important to our 
country, to our military, and their families as any one issue, and that 
is readiness, because it is the men and women whom we ask to fight and 
die for this country who must always be our highest priority. The men 
and women who serve this country in uniform and their families deserve 
a policy worthy of their sacrifices. I appreciate the leadership of my 
friend from Virginia on this issue. This is part of an amendment 
Senator Webb and I had introduced a couple of months ago.

In February of this year, GEN Peter Pace, Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, reported to Congress that there is now, in his words, 
''significant'' risk that our military will not be able to respond to 
an emerging crisis in another part of the world. Since that time, the 
United States has sent more of our soldiers and more of our military 
equipment to Iraq.

The war in Iraq has pushed the U.S. military to the breaking point. 
I, like most of my colleagues, have been told by military leaders, both 
on active duty and those who are retired, that we are doing tremendous 
damage to our Army and to our Marine Corps, as well as our Army 
National Guard. Our troops are being deployed longer than they should 
be, more frequently than they should be, and without full training and 
equipment. We are eroding our military power at a time when our country 
faces an increasing arc of challenges and threats across the globe. We 
are abusing our all-voluntary force in a dangerous and irresponsible 
way. Senator Webb recited a number of the facts--facts, not 
interpretations, not subjective analysis, but facts--as to what is 
happening to our military today because of the burden we are placing on 
them in Iraq, our fifth year in Iraq, our sixth year in Afghanistan.

This amendment goes to the heart of ensuring the readiness of our 
military and the time between deployments. This amendment will ensure 
that all Active units that have deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan have 
time at home that is at least equal to the length of the previous 
deployment. If we can't commit at least that to our forces, then what 
can we commit to them? For the National Guard and Reserves, our 
amendment establishes a minimum 3 years between deployments. Longer and 
more predictable dwell time will allow soldiers to rest, reequip, 
retrain, and return to their families. Our amendment has waiver 
authority because there can be extraordinary circumstances that require 
extraordinary use of our military. We have used that over and over and 
over in Iraq.

Today, in our fifth year in Iraq, in the middle of a civil war, we 
must return to the standards that allowed us to create the finest 
military force the world has ever known, the best led, the best 
educated, the best trained, the


best equipped, and the most committed military the world has ever 
known. You can't make those kinds of militaries. You can't build those 
kinds of militaries overnight or even over 5 years. It took some of 
this country's greatest military leaders post-World War II--more 
importantly, post-Vietnam--such as General Powell, General Schwarzkopf, 
and many others, to commit their lives, 35 years of their lives to 
rebuild a broken military after we broke it in Vietnam. We are headed 
in the same direction unless we get control of this disaster now. 
Nothing is more important to our country, to our society than our 
people.

I urge my colleagues to support this important amendment. I 
appreciate the leadership of the junior Senator from Virginia who knows 
something about the military, who knows something about war.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.