---
---

# ENHANCED PARTNERSHIP WITH PAKISTAN ACT OF 2009
## `15dea1d6b465758e6f1080b64ab6854a`
`Mr. ROYCE — 30 September 2009`

---


Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation, and I 
commend Chairman Berman for his Pakistan assistance legislation, which 
is the basis of the Senate bill that we are considering here. I also 
want to thank Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen for pressing the important 
issues that have made this a better bill.

There is no doubt that Pakistan is critical to America's security. 
Having made several trips to Pakistan, I observed that large parts of 
that country are a hotbed of radical jihadism. It's a country, of 
course, with a nuclear arsenal. And while its security situation has 
improved since last spring, Pakistan very much remains a country in 
crisis.

Pakistan is a partner, too. Any country receiving this amount of U.S. 
aid had better be one. But there can be no carte blanche. This bill's 
conditions on aid reflect years of bad experiences. It's only right 
that Pakistan not be proliferating, or covertly aiding militants, as an 
aid condition. It's only right that those positions are in that 
underlying bill that Chairman Berman has brought forward here. We 
should also proceed with the understanding that aid has the potential 
to worsen economic and political conditions.

Operating in Pakistan is very difficult. U.S. aid workers are limited 
in their in-country travels because of security. I have concerns about 
establishing too big a footprint in Pakistan, in other words, the so-
called diplomatic surge. The fact is that if the U.S. isn't welcomed in 
much of Pakistan, it may not be the case that this addition of 
personnel on the ground is helpful. So I think a balance is needed in 
that, and that's an issue that I hope and trust that the State 
Department will reflect on.

I am pleased that the trade position, the provision on trade, that 
was added to this bill when it passed the House was dropped in the 
Senate. And the reason I am pleased with that is that that provision, 
allegedly a development-plus for Pakistan, was at best a do-nothing 
provision. Some argue it would actually decrease U.S./Pakistan trade. 
It's a shame that this Congress can't muster the will to liberalize 
trade with Pakistan, which would do far more for its development than 
development aid.



Finally, I would like to second my colleague's concerns about 
neighboring Afghanistan. Trends there aren't moving in our direction. 
It's past time for decisive action.