---
---

# CONSOLIDATED SECURITY, DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `15e3ea18aff3bf0bce14a5a1cef5adee`
`Mr. BYRD â€” 27 September 2008`

---


Mr. BYRD. Madam President, I thank the Chair.

Madam President, I speak today in support of the Consolidated 
Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act of 
2009.

The measure that is before the Senate includes the fiscal year 2009 
Defense appropriations bill, the fiscal year 2009 Military Construction 
and Veterans Affairs bill, and the fiscal year 2009 Homeland Security 
bill.

In addition, the measure includes a continuing resolution for fiscal 
year 2009, which provides funding for Government operations at fiscal 
year 2008 levels through March 6, 2009.

In response to the Midwest floods and Hurricanes Gustav, Hanna, and 
Ike, the measure includes $22.3 billion of critical disaster relief.

The measure also includes funding to support $25 billion of auto 
industry loans that were authorized in the Energy Independence and 
Security Act of 2007. These loans will provide a critical boost to the 
effort to develop energy-efficient vehicles, while creating thousands--
thousands, I will say--of new jobs. The bill also includes $5.1 billion 
for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program and $250 million for 
the Weatherization Program. With this funding, an additional 5.7 
million households will get assistance in coping with dramatically 
rising home heating costs. At the current funding level, the Low-Income 
Home Energy Assistance Program serves only 15 percent of eligible 
families.

The message that is before the Senate lives up to the commitment we 
made to support our troops, provide first class health care to our 
veterans, secure our homeland, direct relief to the victims of natural 
disasters all across this great Nation of ours, and provide help for 
families on Main Street.

Madam President, my good friend, Senator Thad Cochran, and I began 
this year with the goal of producing 12 bipartisan, fiscally 
responsible appropriations bills. The Committee on Appropriations made 
great progress in reporting nine such bills by the end of July. 
Regrettably, the President--your President, my President, our 
President--chose to announce that he would veto any of the bills--hear 
that--he


would veto any of the bills--did you hear that--that he would veto any 
of the bills that exceeded his request.

Our bills included critical increases in funding for veterans health 
care, for job-creating programs such as highway and mass transit, for 
the National Institutes of Health, and for fighting crime in our 
streets. As a result of the President's veto threats, the 
appropriations process has fallen prey to the election cycle. 
Therefore, in order to fulfill our promises to the troops and to our 
veterans, we have, once again, yes, been forced to use an omnibus 
appropriations measure to complete our work. I disdain--I disdain--such 
procedures. But, in order to complete our work, we proceeded on a 
bipartisan basis to produce the legislation that is now before the 
Senate.


So I urge all of my fellow Senators--hear me: I urge all of my fellow 
Senators to join me in supporting swift action on these critical 
national priorities.

Madam President, there is funding in this bill to conduct an 
independent and objective study regarding the withdrawal of our troops 
from Iraq in the next 12 to 18 months. This bill includes $2.4 million 
for the Department of Defense to provide to the RAND Corporation to 
conduct this study. As a Federally-funded research and development 
center and an independent research arm of the Department of Defense, 
RAND has access to the Department of Defense information necessary to 
prepare such plans. Furthermore, the staff at RAND is able to draw on 
expertise from across the entire spectrum of the U.S. government to 
provide a long overdue strategic assessment. This study will assume 
that the United States will leave a limited number of troops in Iraq to 
train Iraqis, target Al Qaeda, and protect our mission after the 
withdrawal of the majority of our forces.

A study of this scope is long overdue. Secretary of Defense Gates 
stated before the Senate Armed Services Committee on September 23, 2008 
that in Iraq, he believes:




 we have now entered that endgame--and our decisions today 


 and tomorrow and in the months ahead will be critical to 


 regional stability and our national security interests for 


 years to come.


Yet it is unclear where Defense Department formal planning stands on 
withdrawing our forces in a measured and responsible manner. The time 
to begin the Iraq withdrawal is now. This new RAND study will publicly 
and independently help chart the responsible course ahead.

I wish to thank Chairman Inouye for including this language and 
Senator Kennedy for his strong leadership on this issue.

Madam President, I reserve the balance of my time.