---
---

# APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `15e6f8f8c8393a2966fa598e23b72022`
`Mrs. TAUSCHER — 5 December 2007`

---


Mrs. TAUSCHER. Madam Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairman of 
the House Armed Services Committee, who led a fabulous effort this 
year. For the first time in 13 years, Democrats are in the majority and 
wrote a defense bill that came to the floor and passed with almost 400 
votes. I think that is a record, and I think it speaks very much for 
the bipartisan effort that we had on the committee.

In my subcommittee, Strategic Forces, which includes many different 
issues, including missile defense, the entire nuclear weapons 
portfolio, our part of the bill passed through on a voice vote and then 
came to the committee and was supported by virtually all members. So I 
think we have a very good bill. I think that the conference between the 
House and the Senate will be a productive one. It will be a time for us 
to mesh these issues.

But as we so often say in Washington, no good deed goes unpunished. I 
very much appreciate the ranking member from California bringing this 
motion to instruct forward, but, by the way, it is what is going to 
probably be in the bill, and it is certainly what is reflected in a 
bipartisan way by both Democrats and Republicans in both the House and 
the Senate.

I think there has been a lot of rhetoric today about how dangerous a 
failed state in Iraq would be, and I stand to join my colleagues. I am 
absolutely, unambiguously convinced that a failed state in Iraq is not 
only now a bad thing, but would continue to be a bad thing.

I guess the real question is, what about the failed policy that got 
us to a place where we are all concerned about a failed state in Iraq, 
and why isn't the debate today about the failed policy? How could it be 
that we are sitting here talking about a national defense bill that is 
one of the most important bills that the Congress brings, our 
constitutional responsibility, and we are not talking about a failed 
policy that has caused us to borrow almost $800 billion, caused us to 
have virtually no ready ground forces in the United States currently, 
caused us to degrade our ability to be prepared for any other 
contingency? Why isn't the debate today about that?

Well, because that would be a good debate. That would be really what 
the debate should be about. But, instead, we are going to have a motion 
to instruct on things that are already agreed to by the Senate and the 
House, by the conferees, and I would say every Member here.

So I appreciate the Member from California bringing this up. This is 
easy to support. We are all for it and we all know it. But the real 
question is: Why don't we have a debate about the failed policy? Why 
aren't we really concerned about the readiness of our troops, our 
inability to deal with other contingencies, all of the money we have 
borrowed, and no solution to extricate ourselves honorably and as soon 
as possible to bring our troops home so that we can maintain our 
readiness?

Our American forces in Afghanistan and in Iraq have done everything 
that the American people have asked for. The problem, my colleagues, is 
they have done it for too long. They have done it for too long without 
an Iraqi Government that will stand up and provide the political 
solution necessary for us to be able to leave an Iraq that is beginning 
to put itself together, knitting those tribes together, moving forward 
together to do the right thing.

But what we have right now is an intransigent, stuck Iraqi Government 
that hasn't provided the political solution, the only solution, that 
will be able to create a stable Iraq. It is not our responsibility to 
create a stable Iraq. That is why they have a sovereign government. And 
what we can no longer do is enable the sovereign government to come up 
with excuse after excuse after excuse.

I really appreciated my colleague from Virginia explaining to me why 
the oil legislation written by our State Department isn't something 
that the Iraqis can pass, even though they have the votes to do it. I 
find that fascinating.

We have been told for months that the petrochemical law is the most 
important thing that they can do. It is the thing that is going to give 
the Sunnis the effort to come into the government and feel like they 
are part of the government and that they are part of a solution and a 
one-Iraq strategy. But, of course, we don't have that, because even 
though they have the votes, it seems like it is just a little too hard 
to do.

We are spending too much money. We are spending too much time. We are 
risking too many American soldiers. We are risking our readiness. The 
failed policy is really what we should be talking about, Madam Speaker.

Madam Speaker, I said it is easy to support this motion to instruct 
because it is something we all agree on.