# HONORING THE CHICAGO CHAPTER OF THE AMERICAN VETERANS FOR EQUAL RIGHTS
## `15e77ee8e2f1d8d70cbff2090d58956b`
`Mr. QUIGLEY — 22 February 2010`

---


Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Chicago 
Chapter of the American Veterans for Equal Rights, AVER, an 
organization of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender veterans of the 
U.S. Armed Forces, on the occasion of the City of Chicago's annual 
Salute to LGBT veterans.

Founded in 1992, the Chicago Chapter of AVER provides support to LGBT 
veterans in the Chicago metropolitan area. Members of AVER have served 
in every war from World War II to Iraq and Afghanistan.

Each year, AVER members march in Chicago's Memorial Day Parade and in 
Chicago's Gay Pride Parade. By doing so, AVER members bear witness to 
the fact that gay and lesbian Americans have served throughout our 
history to defend the United States in time of war and to preserve our 
freedoms and democracy.

AVER fights not only for LGBT veterans but also for gay and lesbian 
soldiers currently serving in our Armed Forces, especially those who 
are in harms way in Iraq and Afghanistan. AVER members travel to 
Washington every year to lobby members of Congress for an end to the 
''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' policy.



For 15 years, AVER has fought against this detrimental policy that 
requires gay and lesbian service members to deny who they are and to 
lie about their lives. Our democratic allies--from the United Kingdom 
to Israel--allow gay and lesbian soldiers to serve openly without any 
adverse effects on military preparedness or morale. This is the basic 
fairness and justice that AVER seeks for gay and lesbian American 
soldiers.

Madam Speaker, I also want to recognize Jim Darby, the founder of the 
Chicago Chapter of AVER and a Korean War veteran. Jim served in the 
Navy as a Russian-language specialist. Along with all the other AVER 
members, Jim has fought tirelessly to educate the general public and 
the Congress about the plight of LGBT veterans and active service 
members. What AVER seeks is what we should all seek: respect and honor 
for all those who have served and who are serving the United States of 
American through our Armed Forces.
