---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `16149ae26c356a6d36289f4a170c265a`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. I wanted to speak very briefly because I note the 
presence on the floor of the Senator from Ohio. I want to speak simply 
to thank Senator McCain for his very strong and thoughtful statement. I 
am honored that he is the cosponsor of the amendment.

Senator McCain has enormous credibility in two areas that have come 
together in this amendment. The first is his support of the men and 
women of our military. The second is his opposition to wasteful 
spending of taxpayer dollars. And the two come together here.

Of course, as he has argued so compellingly, there are a lot of times 
when the wasteful spending of taxpayer dollars for military 
acquisitions is not only harmful in itself because it is wasteful, but 
it takes money away from things we need more.

That is the case here. The money that will be spent, $5, $6, $8 
billion over the next 6 years by various estimates, will result in 50 
to 80 fewer Joint Strike Fighters produced in that time. The Navy, Air 
Force, and Marines are waiting with anxiety for these tactical 
fighters.

In addition to that, the folks who want to fund this second engine 
have to find the money somewhere. They find it not only by delays in 
the Joint Strike Fighter Program, but by either, as the amendments 
today give the alternative--the first one was to take it from the 
Marine Corps for helicopters that are needed in Afghanistan.

The one that Senator Bayh has before us will take the money from the 
Air Force special operations community for C-130s that they need for 
Iraq, Afghanistan, and throughout the world. It is not worth it.

I thank Senator McCain for his strong statement and for his 
cosponsorship.

I yield the floor.