---
---

# None
## `161a2815201145814b879b00395091ff`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I support this amendment, and I commend 
my friend and colleague Senator Feingold. It is wrong, basically and 
fundamentally, to give another blank check to President Bush for his 
failed Iraq policy. I support our troops, but I oppose our war.

We have heard here in the last few minutes and in the last few hours 
the rather rosy picture about what is happening over in Iraq. I think 
everybody in this Chamber salutes the brave men and women for their 
courage, bravery, and valor over the last 5 years. This war has been 
going on for 5 years. We do know there has been some progress made in 
recent times on the military aspect. But as every member of the Armed 
Services Committee understands, everyone who has had a responsibility 
in Iraq who appeared before the committee has said there are two 
dimensions for finally getting peace in Iraq: One is military, and one 
is political reconciliation. That has not taken place.

Day after day after day after day, our men and women are on the 
streets of Baghdad and around Iraq, and more American servicemen have 
lost their lives this year than in any other year of the Iraq war, make 
no mistake about it. As we can see, these brave men and women in 
Baghdad, and all over, are still being targeted in Iraq. They are 
basically being held hostage by the Iraqi political establishment. 
American military personnel, American service men and women are being 
held hostage by Iraq's political leadership, which refuses to come 
together and reconcile their differences and form a government.

Every day that goes on, the American taxpayers' money is being poured 
into the sands of Iraq, because Iraqi politicians refuse reconciliation 
and political judgments in Iraq. That is what is going on over there 
today. That was going on yesterday, and it has been going on for 5 
years.

What the other side says is let's give this administration and this 
President a blank check to continue it. How long do they want it for? 
When is enough enough? That is what they are asking for. That is what 
they are asking for. For 5 long years, these brave men and women in the 
Armed Services have done what they have been asked to do, and the best 
way you can honor them is to get the policy right, get the policy 
correct.

That is what the Feingold amendment does. How? Very simple. It says: 
OK, Mr. Iraqi politician, you have had your chance, your day; now you 
have to take responsibility for your own country. The way you are going 
to do that is that we are going to start bringing American service men 
and women home. They have been unwilling to take the political 
decisions up until now. The other side says pour more money in here and 
lose more American lives.

The Feingold amendment is a changed policy. It says we believe that 
with the judgment and decision we are going to take to American 
servicemen, then they will make the judgment and decision that is in 
the interest of this country. Their way hasn't worked. This way will. 
Why not give it a try and a chance?

What are some of the American military personnel saying over there? 
BG John Campbell, deputy commanding general of the 1st Cavalry Division 
in Iraq, spoke bluntly about the faults of Iraq's political leaders. He 
said:




 The ministers, they don't get out . . . They don't know 


 what the hell is going on on the ground.


This is the brigadier general, the deputy commander, talking about 
the Iraqi political leaders, and you want to give them a blank check? 
Well, those of us who support the Feingold amendment say no.

Army LTC Mark Fetter put it this way:

''It is very painful, very painful'' to deal with the obstructionism 
of Iraqi officials.

There it is. How much clearer does it have to get? How much more of a 
blank check do you need? How many more billions of dollars do you have 
to spend--let alone that we will never recover the 81 brave men and 
women from Massachusetts who lost their lives. That cannot be 
recovered.

Think of this: For every month that goes on in that battle over in 
Iraq, we could have 250,000 more schoolteachers who are experts in math 
and science teaching our young people. For every month that goes on, 
just think that every child who needs after school help and assistance 
would be able to receive it in the United States of America. Just 
think, for every month this goes on, we could provide Head Start for 
every young person who needs it. Just think of this: If we could have 
the resources for 2 years, we could rebuild and repair every public 
school in this country that is in need. Doesn't that matter? Well, it 
matters to this Senator, and it matters to those who are supporting the 
Feingold amendment.

It is wrong to neglect priorities such as these at home and pour 
hundreds of billions of dollars into the black hole that the Iraq war 
has become. It is wrong to give the President another huge blank check 
for the war in Iraq. Enough is enough.



I urge my colleagues to take a strong stand and vote against this 
gigantic blank check for more war.