---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `1629565ba15fd2de5ce3a4579a357ddb`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to voice my 
support as well to the supplemental appropriations bill before the 
Senate today. I commend Chairman Byrd and all the hard-working members 
of the Appropriations Committee for the good work they have done. It 
reflects many diverse needs at home and abroad at such a critical time 
in our Nation's history.

A proposal we will be voting on this morning--as we enter the sixth 
year of this war in Iraq and Afghanistan--will provide the necessary 
resources for our brave troops to continue their task and finish the 
job. It also makes clear to the Iraqi people our support for this war 
can no longer be open-ended. It sets practical and realistic goals for 
beginning the phased deployment of U.S. troops in Iraq. When our troops 
begin returning home and transition back to civilian life in their 
communities, we appropriately recognize their service in this bill by 
providing benefits that better reflect the sacrifices they have made 
for each one of us.

I appreciate the leadership exhibited by Senators Webb and Hagel, 
Lautenberg and Warner, to keep the drumbeat alive and make this a 
priority. They have served our country honorably in past conflicts, and 
they understand that educating our Nation's soldiers, sailors, airmen, 
and marines is a cost of war.

One provision included in the GI bill will ensure that our citizen 
soldiers, our National Guard and Reserve serving multiple deployments 
abroad, will accrue additional education benefits similar to those 
Active-Duty troops receive when they are deployed.

I have fought for this equity because guardsmen and reservists who 
serve multiple tours of duty do not receive one extra penny of 
educational benefits for their added service because benefits are based 
on the single longest deployment. Passage of this bill will make that 
change, and it will make it possible for those Guard and Reserve to 
accrue their educational benefits.

Another important piece of this bill is the domestic investment it 
makes. There are dollars for VA polytrauma centers, rural schools, and 
law enforcement that need immediate attention. It also includes funding 
under the Adam Walsh Act to track and prosecute sex offenders and those 
who would do harm to our children.

In addition, this bill provides vital resources to help in recovery 
efforts from all kinds of disasters, from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita 
and other natural disasters such as the string of tornadoes and 
flooding that hit my State earlier this year. Arkansas has suffered a 
series of natural disasters this year unlike any I have seen in my 
lifetime. It has left 60 of our 75 counties in our State in need of 
Federal disaster assistance. Wave after wave of storms has rocked the 
residents of Arkansas and left many of them shocked by the disaster. It 
started on February 5, when a band of tornadoes created a path of 
destruction that stretched across 12 counties in Arkansas, killing 13 
people and injuring 133--the deadliest storm in nearly 10 years.

A little more than a month later, heavy storms hit Arkansas once 
again, this time bringing rain, floods, and devastation that we have 
not seen the likes of in 90 years. Thirty-five Arkansas counties were 
declared disaster areas from that storm.

Again, on April 3, another set of tornadoes hit central Arkansas. 
Although not as deadly as the February tornadoes, four twisters touched 
down in a five-county area, including some of the


counties suffering already from the floods. In addition, two more 
rounds of tornados hit the State earlier this month, bringing the total 
to 60 counties affected by these storms this year.

This is evidence of the disaster upon disaster that hit our State. As 
we look at the opportunities we have before us with supplementals, this 
is what we use to address those kinds of devastation.

I ask my colleagues to please support this part of the bill. These 
resources will help our State and other States in many other 
initiatives we truly need in our country.

The citizens of Arkansas and in our communities all across this 
Nation have suffered much at the hands of Mother Nature. We are asking 
our colleagues to work with us to ensure that the things we could not 
predict, the things we could not prepare for, could be taken care of 
for those brave Americans in our great State.