# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `164c0fe0c4bb5c62f87b8bb0977b0d8a`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 2 April 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chair, as the House of 
Representatives begins to consider the President's Fiscal Year 2010 
Budget, I would like to highlight a number of priorities. First, I 
would like to begin by saying President Obama has inherited an 
extensive deficit from the previous administration--the result of 
mistaken policies, misplaced priorities and an era of profound 
irresponsibility. This was no April Fools joke. Our budget deficit is a 
real problem with real consequences for the American people.



For too long, we have ignored the tough choices we needed to make and 
failed to address the big challenges our economy faces.

This lack of responsibility has left our nation with an economy in 
recession and an untenable fiscal situation--$1 trillion a year 
deficits on average over the coming decade.

The FY2010 budget submitted by the President is up front and honest 
about the challenges we face. Unlike the previous administration which 
assumed revenue from the Alternative Minimum Tax overwhelming the 
middle class and not accounting for the Medicare doctor's fee fix and 
the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, there are no budget 
gimmicks in President Obama's budget to cover up the mess we're in.

I urge the President to include funding for summer jobs for youth. 
Our youth, and individuals that have opted not to go to college or 
institutions of higher learning, need to be engaged and employed. 
Employment will provide them with skills and aptitudes that are 
necessary to be productive in society. I urge funding for our youth.

I support the President's call for healthcare reform. I urge the 
Budget Committee to account for the cost of healthcare reform to ensure 
that the 45 million uninsured Americans (four million of which are 
children) have access to quality and affordable healthcare.

In addition, I urge the Committee to account for the following:

Funding the Minority AIDS Initiative at $610 million this year (an 
increase of nearly $200 million) to build capacity among minority run 
non-governmental organizations and to conduct outreach services among 
minority communities.

Funding the Ryan White CARE Act at $2.8 billion this year (an 
increase of $578 million) to support care and treatment programs at the 
local level to address the needs of people living with HIV/AIDS.

Funding the CDC Prevention activities for HIV, STD, TB and Viral 
Hepatitis at $2.28 billion (an increase of nearly $1.2 billion) to fund 
testing initiatives and support innovative prevention efforts at the 
local level.

Funding for Housing for people living with HIV/AIDS (HOPWA) at $360 
million (an increase of $50 million) to provide supportive housing for 
people with AIDS.

Zeroing out funding for ineffective abstinence only until marriage 
programs to recover $99 million in funding. These programs have been 
proven to be ineffective.

Funding for comprehensive sex education programs that will be 
authorized by the REAL Act with at least $50 million this year to 
reduce spread of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases and reduce 
unintended pregnancies.

A $200 million increase in funding for the National Center on 
Minority Health and Health Disparities at NIH.

Reserve funding ($3.5 billion) for the Health Equity and 
Accountability Act (not yet enacted).

I commend the President for requesting an increase of $15 billion for 
the Department of State and other international programs in FY2010, 
which is a 40% increase over the FY2009 level. I urge the Budget 
Committee to include this increase in the budget resolution. I am 
hopeful that these additional funds will go towards the Global Fund to 
Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; USAID; migration and refugee 
assistance; peacekeeping efforts in Darfur; education, healthcare and 
cultural exchange programs; child survival and health programs; and 
development assistance.

As the President begins to withdraw troops from Iraq, I also urge the 
Budget Committee to account for the need to increase Iraqi humanitarian 
assistance by $1.17 billion in FY2010.

I support the robust funding for our troops and America's national 
defense. I support reducing funding for the failed Ballistic Missile 
Defense program and reallocating those funds within the Defense 
Department to fund increases in shipbuilding, troop readiness, military 
and civilian pay, cancer research, and mental health services.

I have consistently fought for funding to weed out waste, fraud and 
abuse within the Department of Defense. The Defense Department has 
already saved an estimated $89 billion between FY01 and FY07 by 
implementing 1,682 of the Government Accountability Office's 
recommendations. President Obama's FY2010 Budget Overview reflects a 
similar commitment, as has the House Budget Committee under Chairman 
Spratt's leadership.

As the economy continues to worsen, I urge the Budget Committee to 
account for the increased need for income security programs, such as 
the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, Unemployment Insurance, 
Medicaid, and the Recovery Act's COBRA subsidy.

I urge the President to consider including the necessary budget 
authority to account for the cost of increasing the federal minimum 
wage and indexing it to inflation. In addition, the Committee should 
consider the cost of reforming current asset tests for economic 
assistance. As more and more Americans lose their jobs, it makes little 
sense to force families to drain their savings to the extent necessary 
to qualify for certain temporary economic assistance programs.

Finally, the President should also consider the cost of redefining 
the Federal Poverty Level, which is currently $22,050 for a family of 
four (100%). I urge the creation of a Decent Living Standard Threshold 
to determine the amount of annual income that would allow an individual 
to live beyond deprivation at a safe and decent, but modest, standard 
of living.

The housing crisis lies at the center of the economic problems we 
face today. After the series of TARP bills, the Congress has just found 
out that bank executives have used over $100 million in TARP funds to 
pay for executive bonuses and other forms of compensation. I urge the 
President to reverse eight years of underfunding of the nation's 
affordable housing programs and we are pleased that the Administration 
has proposed a HUD budget that increases funding for the Department by 
19 percent. I urge the President to match this aggressive budget 
authorization and to support large investments into the Community and 
Regional Development and the Income Security functions in order to 
account for increases in Affordable Housing programs.

Specifically, the President should consider including the necessary 
budget authority to fund the Section 8 public housing operating subsidy 
at 100% of need. In addition, the President must also consider 
providing sufficient budget authority for the renewal of all Section 8 
vouchers currently in use.

Although the public housing capital fund received an injection of $4 
billion in the recent stimulus package, this only represents 12.5 
percent of the estimated $32 billion backlog in deferred capital needs. 
The President should include sufficient budget authority to allow 
housing authorities to address ongoing and deferred maintenance needs.

In addition, I urge the President to support the Administration's 
proposal to fund the National Affordable Housing Trust Fund at $1 
billion and to fully fund the Community Development Block Grant 
program. I also urge full funding of HUD's housing programs for the 
elderly, disabled, and Native Americans, as well as for those programs 
that prevent homelessness. I support an increase in funding for the 
Neighborhood Stabilization Program, which allows states, localities, 
and nonprofits to buy up and rehabilitate abandoned and foreclosed 
properties.

I urge the President to account for funding efforts to combat and 
reduce juvenile crime and efforts to rehabilitate ex-offenders. I 
strenuously urge the full funding of the Second Chance Act, which 
provides transitional assistance to assist ex-offenders in coping with 
the challenges of reentry. Removing barriers to reentry has proven to 
reduce recidivism, which in the long run reduces crime. In addition, 
the President should account for much needed increases in youth crime 
intervention programs. Research has shown that targeting funding 
towards intervention rather than incarceration is more effective at 
reducing crime and saving the taxpayer money in the long run.

I have long supported efforts to increase funding for the Justice 
Assistance Program, the Juvenile Justice Program, Civil Rights 
Enforcement, the COPS Program, the Byrne Justice Grant Program, and 
State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance. I urge the President to 
account for sustaining many of the important increases for these 
programs that was included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act.

As the Chairwoman of the Children's Caucus, I support the President's 
efforts to reform and expand the Pell Grant program. Pell Grants are 
way to make education affordable to disadvantaged youth. This is very 
important to me.

I would like to see continued and sustained increases in education 
funding, especially for Title I and IDEA. Even though Congress is to 
consider the reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act this year, 
the Budget Committee should still account for the need to address the 
substantial funding shortfalls of this program over the last eight 
years. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act made substantial 
increases, but I urge the President to account for sustaining many of 
these new investments.

The President must also account for needed increases in funding for 
Head Start, TRIO (including Upward Bound), GEAR UP, Youth Build, and 
vocational education programs. In addition, I urge the President to 
account for funding for expanded grants to states for workplace and 
community transition as authorized in the Higher Education Opportunity 
Act. These grants will better assist and encourage incarcerated 
individuals who have obtained a secondary school diploma or its 
recognized equivalent to acquire educational and job skills.

I urge this body to account for fully funding the historic increases 
in funding for Historically Black Colleges and Universities and 
Minority


Serving Institutions authorized in the Higher Education Act 
reauthorization enacted last year.

I support the President's efforts at increasing spending for 
infrastructural projects. The President's priorities are reminiscent of 
the New Deal where this country invested in building up our Nation. The 
President has made a significant effort at achieving this by his 
signing of HR 1, the Stimulus Act.

In the Stimulus Act, the President authorized money to be spent on 
infrastructural projects that were shovel ready, i.e., ready to be 
started within 120 days. I know that America could use this money.

Indeed, Houston would benefit. Houston's Metro Rail needs to complete 
its RAIL service in certain quadrants of Houston. The project has been 
twenty years in the making. I have worked with Leadership and Chairman 
Oberstar to ensure that METRO Rail projects get the funding that they 
need to be completed.

Completion of this mobility project would decrease congestion and 
pollution as Houstonians would travel via rail instead of using their 
cars. This would increase Houston mobility and the health of 
Houstonians as they would be forced to walk around instead of using 
their private transport.

The House Budget Committee has shown a commitment to increased 
funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. I commend the 
President's budget for including a $25 billion above baseline increase 
for the VA over the next five years.

Other Priorities: Fully fund the Community Development Block Grant;

Increased funding for the Public Housing Capital Fund to continue to 
address eight years of stagnant funding under the Bush Administration; 
fully fund the Child Care and Development Block Grant; fully fund the 
Social Services Block Grant; increased funding for HOPE VI; fully fund 
the Neighborhood Stabilization Program; increased funding for the 
Affordable Housing Trust Fund; support for the creation of a National 
Infrastructure Bank; continued funding for Hurricane Katrina recovery 
and rebuilding efforts; increased funding for the Environmental Justice 
Small Grants Program; increased funding for the National Underground 
Railroad Network to Freedom program at the National Park Service. This 
is important to me. I worked to get funding for urban parks in the 
Stimulus bill. This increases the health and overall well being of 
constituents. It is necessary in urban meccas like Houston.