---
---

# None
## `167210c6e9e72db9b2d126aeb329553f`
`Mrs. LOWEY — 17 December 2010`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 335, a 
concurrent resolution in remembrance and appreciation of Ambassador 
Richard Holbrooke.

The passing of Ambassador Holbrooke on Monday, December 13, is a 
great loss for the American people. One of our Nation's most talented 
diplomats, Richard Holbrooke possessed a fierce determination and 
unsurpassed brilliance in advocating for American security, diplomatic 
and development interests around the world--in Southeast Asia and post-
Cold War Europe, at the United Nations, and most recently in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan. His exceptional accomplishments as a 
peacemaker, diplomat, writer, scholar, manager, and mentor will define 
his legacy as one of the true great foreign policy giants of our time.

I was honored and privileged to have known Richard Holbrooke from his 
time brokering the Dayton Peace Accords, helping to end the ethnic 
cleansing and genocide in the Balkans. His political acumen, deft 
maneuvering and relentless, dogged pursuit of peace saved tens of 
thousands of innocent lives in Bosnia and helped to stabilize one of 
the most volatile regions in the world.



In his role as Special Representative to Afghanistan and Pakistan, it 
was a privilege to work with him as our Nation navigates an intractable 
situation for regional and global security.

Throughout his career, he served the United States as a tireless 
advocate, loyal patriot and tenacious fighter for U.S. interests. 
Richard Holbrooke was a giant of diplomacy and a trusted voice for me 
and many other Members of Congress who valued his counsel. Our Nation 
owes him a debt of gratitude for his many years of service.

My thoughts and prayers and deepest sympathies are with his beloved 
wife, Kati; his children and grandchildren; and countless friends and 
colleagues.

We will miss you, Richard. Rest in peace, my friend. However, I know 
your wise advice will continue to guide us.

I urge all of my colleagues to support this resolution in honor of 
one of our country's greatest diplomats.