---
---

# HONORING THE DECEASED MARINE CORPORAL JEFFREY JOHNSON OF TOMBALL
## `1677c79eff444e2e20efc3aeeb17d5c2`
`Mr. BRADY of Texas — 28 May 2010`

---


Mr. BRADY of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize and 
honor Marine Corporal Jeffrey Johnson of Tomball, TX, part of the 3rd 
Battalion 1st Marines, 1st Marine Division, who was killed on May 11, 
2010, while on foot patrol by an improvised explosive device south of 
Marjah in the Garmsir District of Helmand Province, Afghanistan. He was 
21 years old.

In 2007, after graduating from Waller High School, Corporal Johnson 
accepted the call to become one of the few and the proud as a Marine. 
In doing so, he joined a family legacy of service to America, with 
grandfathers having served in the Navy and Air Force and four of his 
uncles in the National Guard.

His family, friends, and fellow Marines recall Corporal Johnson as a 
smart, humorous, loving, and hard working person. His father, Jerry, 
said that his son loved being a Marine and believed strongly in 
America's fight for freedom and against terrorists overseas.

Corporal Johnson leaves behind a wife, Katy, his parents, 
grandparents, three siblings, and many other family members. He also 
leaves behind a very proud community. The people of Tomball and 
Magnolia, Texas, lined the streets of town to welcome this man home, 
and stand today behind his family and support them in their grief.



Madam Speaker, the Bible says in John 15:13, ''Greater love hath no 
man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.'' Corporal 
Johnson paid the ultimate price for his fellow Marines, his wife and 
family, and this country. May we, as the House of Representatives, 
never forget that our freedoms are given by almighty God and secured by 
our Armed Forces, one soldier at a time.
