# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `1682627ba4672c2929bdf92cf41558e1`
`Mr. DREIER — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. DREIER. I want to begin by expressing my appreciation to my good 
friend from Worcester, my Rules Committee colleague, Mr. McGovern, for 
yielding me the customary 30 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I very much appreciate my friend's, the gentleman from 
Maryland's, outline of this rule, but the fact of the matter is this is 
one of the most convoluted rules that we have seen in a long, long 
period of time.

I say that because, while my friend tried to make it sound as if this 
rule were fashioned to ensure that every single Member of this 
institution would have the opportunity to have a say, to play a role 
and to ensure that the House is working its will, the fact of the 
matter is it is a rule which is designed, I believe, in many ways to 
deny what a majority of this House would like to do.

We all decry the fact that we still have men and women in Afghanistan 
and in Iraq. We wish very much that the wars could come to an end and 
that we could bring our troops home, and we all enthusiastically look 
forward to doing that just as expeditiously as possible. Yet we know 
that a request was made for $33.5 billion--this is a request that the 
President made--to ensure that our men and women in uniform have 
exactly what they need. The Secretary of Defense and other leaders in 
our military have indicated that it is essential that they have this 
before the 4th of July. When is the 4th of July? It is this coming 
Sunday.

Now, last May 27, more than a month ago, the Senate took its action. 
By a vote of 67-28, they voted in favor of this $33.5 billion in order 
to ensure that our men and women in uniform have exactly what they 
need.

Mr. Speaker, I am not in any way an advocate of our being a rubber 
stamp or of our doing exactly what our friends in the other body 
propose. That is why I wished very much, in the month before last, in 
late May, that we had begun the process so that we would not be here on 
the eve of the date at which time the Secretary of Defense had 
indicated we must have this money.

With the action that this institution might consider taking, we are 
jeopardizing the ability of our men and women in uniform to have 
exactly what they need now. There is nothing that any of us does in our 
jobs that is more painful than talking to the family members of those 
who have lost their lives in Iraq, Afghanistan or in any place in the 
world.

My friend from Worcester just talked about two of his constituents 
who died in Afghanistan recently.



We can on a regular basis, Mr. Speaker, talk about these challenges. 
We want to ensure that we never again have to call and talk to those 
family members. That is why, as Mr. Hoyer said very eloquently in his 
opening remarks, we want to ensure that we diminish the kind of threat 
that exists for the United States of America and for our interests 
around the world. That is the reason that we are there.

Now, the distinguished chair of the Committee on Rules just a little 
while ago upstairs talked about the fact or


implied in some way that we were imposing democracy on the people of 
Afghanistan and it is something that they are not really interested in.

Well, the fact of the matter is, our colleague Mr. Price and I, along 
with 18 other Members, have a commission which has expended time, 
energy, resources and effort in 15 new and reemerging democracies 
around the world, working to build their parliaments.

Mr. Speaker, one of our partner nations for the House Democracy 
Partnership happens to be Afghanistan. And while there have been real 
difficulties with democracy there, there have been difficulties and a 
real struggle as they begin to plant the seeds of democracy, we have 
been working closely with their parliament, and they are enthusiastic 
about the process of moving ahead and, interestingly enough, modeling 
themselves after much of what we have here in the House of 
Representatives. So as we look at where it is that we are headed, we 
have to ensure that those resources are there. We don't like the fact 
that we have to do this, but it is essential.

Mr. Speaker, as we look at this rule, the rule is one which is, as I 
said, very convoluted. We have dealt with war supplementals in the 
past. My colleague Ms. Foxx upstairs in the Rules Committee talked 
about the fact that consistently President Obama when he was a 
candidate indicated that he would not be asking for any war 
supplementals.

But I will say that when we have considered war supplementals in the 
past, under the chairmanship of Jerry Lewis and in the work that we had 
in the Rules Committee, every single war supplemental that we brought 
forward came under an open amendment process. That is the way to allow 
the House to work its will.

Now, we are where we are. We are where we are on the eve of 
Independence Day and the time when the Secretary of Defense and other 
military leaders have said it is essential for us to have the resources 
that are necessary.

So what is it we should be doing? We should defeat this rule. We 
should defeat this rule, go right back upstairs to the Rules Committee, 
and come down here with a rule that will allow us to let the House work 
its will and have an up-or-down vote, an up-or-down vote on whether or 
not we accept this $33.5 billion request, along with a few other items 
that are included in this measure, including funding for the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency, which, as Mr. Hoyer said, is desperately 
needed. That is included in the measure that came over from the Senate. 
And we should have an up-or-down vote and see what this House will do.

Mr. Speaker, as I said at the outset, I believe fully that if we were 
to have that up-or-down vote, that a bipartisan majority, a bipartisan 
majority in this House would in fact vote to complete the work, ensure 
that our men and women in uniform have all the resources that they need 
to proceed, and then we will have done our job.

So, Mr. Speaker, I am going to urge my colleagues to vote no on this 
rule for numerous reasons, the most important of which at this moment 
is to ensure that our men and women in uniform get what they need as 
soon as possible.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.