---
---

# THE BUDGET
## `16821a8d071f5862b93a0325ae9099f3`
`Mr. BUNNING — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, in recent polling, close to 80 percent of 
the American public have told pollsters the Nation is on the wrong 
track. We have enormous problems to solve. The American people know it, 
and we should be working together to solve those problems. But this 
budget, written behind closed doors and in secret by a partisan group 
of Senators, will do


nothing to close the gulf that is keeping us from the people's 
business. Maybe that is by design.

Majority Leader Reid recently explained that Senator Clinton 
recommended to him that the Democrats should have a Senate ''war 
room.'' The war room is up and running today, churning out falsehoods, 
such as claims that Republicans have staged 71 filibusters--a claim now 
disputed by the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service. Who are the 
Democrats at war with?

Just as my good friend, General Petraeus, began to make progress 
reversing the insurgency in Iraq, the leadership of the Senate decided 
to wage a different kind of war--a war on Americans who do not share 
their vision of the future. The vision Democrats would promote, to the 
exclusion of all others, is laid out in this budget document before us. 
It begins with more tax enforcement. Everybody should abide by the law 
and pay the taxes they owe. And I support our new IRS Commissioner. But 
the notion that we can save anywhere near the amount proposed by 
Senator Conrad is nonsense, and he should know it.

The only way to collect that revenue would be to toss out the 
procedural rights American taxpayers now enjoy. These rights are 
critical because they assure fair and evenhanded enforcement by the 
IRS. The Government will lose far more revenue than Senator Conrad 
proposes to save if the public loses confidence in the fairness of our 
tax system.

His own colleagues in the House are not serious about this either. If 
they were, the House would not have voted on party lines to stop audits 
of a handful of wealthy Americans under audit by the IRS who claim to 
be Virgin Islands residents. What is the IRS to make of this mixed 
message?

The next part of the Democratic vision is predictable: more taxes. In 
order to achieve balance, the Democrats' budget assumes $1.2 trillion 
in additional revenue compared to today's baseline. Has anybody asked 
the 80 percent who think we are on the wrong track whether they would 
raise taxes on 116 million Americans?

At least 43 million American families will pay $2,300 more per year 
in Federal tax for the spending in this budget proposal.

Finally, and most significantly, the Democrats' plan on entitlement 
reform is to stay the course. Senator Domenici, the former chairman of 
the Budget Committee, told Budget conferees yesterday that he fears for 
our future and the future of our children and our grandchildren. Having 
35 grandchildren, I share his concerns.

As any ship's captain knows, when you are heading for the rocks, it 
is time to change course. Staying the course is the wrong policy and 
the wrong message, and I am disappointed my colleagues have been 
unwilling to work with me and with the President to turn the ship of 
state in the right direction with this budget document.

Please--the American people are watching--let's do what is right and 
reject this partisan document and write a budget we can all be proud 
of.

I yield back.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.