# AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `16867e2bbe76548fa11f578d12aaa7d0`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 13 February 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator.

Mr. President, we are, obviously, about to vote affirmatively on the 
legislation before us. I want to say that I think the debate has been 
good and respectful. I congratulate the Members on the other side of 
the aisle and the President for their success in achieving the 
timetable that they laid out for the passage of this legislation.

I point out that the allegation that this is a bipartisan piece of 
legislation is simply not accurate. A total of three Republican Members 
in the entire Congress will be voting for this bill--only three. That 
is not a bipartisan approach, by any measure.

I think there are some hard facts we should not ignore as we address 
and dispose of this issue and move on to others. I remind my colleagues 
that the current national debt is $10.7 trillion. The 2009 projected 
deficit is another $1.2 trillion. The cost of this legislation before 
us is $1.124 trillion; that is, $789 billion plus interest. The 
expected omnibus spending bill, which will be coming shortly, is 
roughly $400 billion. The expected supplemental request for Afghanistan 
and Iraq will be an additional $80 billion. We will be addressing 
appropriations bills for 2010 that will be over a trillion dollars. We 
are already spending $700 billion on TARP I and II. And estimates, 
according to the media, are that TARP III will be somewhere around $1.5 
trillion.

We are on a spending spree of unprecedented and historic proportions. 
We are committing what some of us have called generational theft 
because we are laying this debt on our children and our grandchildren.

My colleagues--and the Senator from Illinois who has been here 
constantly and has argued his side effectively--will point out that 
Republicans did the same thing. I agree, and Republicans were punished 
in the last election for doing so.

What grieves me the most about this process we have been through is 
that it started out with a phrase by the Speaker of the House that ''we 
won, we wrote the bill.'' I think I understand the lesson. That is the 
process that it has been through, without Republican involvement and 
without Republican negotiations, which I think are necessary to achieve 
the consensus that is necessary when we are addressing an issue of this 
magnitude.

This has not been a bipartisan effort. The other side will emerge 
victorious in a few minutes, but we have to face additional challenges. 
I mentioned TARP III--$1.5 trillion--and the expected war supplemental 
request. There are all of these new challenges--not to mention national 
security challenges and policy challenges.

I think I understand the message from the 2008 election. I think I 
understand it very well. That message is that the American people don't 
want business as usual. They do want us to sit down together. We want 
to be in on the takeoff, so that we can be in on the landing. We want 
to work together with the other side.

This is not the example that I think the American people want us to 
exercise as we address the enormous challenges. We need a stimulus 
package, we need to address the war in Afghanistan, and we need to 
provide for the much-needed services to Americans as revenues decline 
with a bad economy.

I end my remarks and yield back the balance of my time by saying 
again: Congratulations to those who will succeed in passing this 
legislation. The next time--and it will be soon, because I understand 
there will be an omnibus appropriations bill, TARP III and others--let 
us sit down and negotiate and work together. When we come out with a 
solution and legislation, we can tell the American people that we 
learned the lesson but, most importantly, we will reflect their wishes 
that we have worked together to address some of the most difficult 
challenges of anyone's lifetime.

I yield back the remainder of my time.