---
---

# None
## `1695fc48f368e2b4a87fb26c7b097636`
`Ms. GIFFORDS — 11 June 2007`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1441, a bill that will put an 
end to military surplus sales that may inadvertently be helping to 
sustain Iran's Air Force.

First, I would like to thank Chairman Lantos and Chairman Skelton for 
their leadership on this issue. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss 
this critical national security issue.

The background to this problem begins in the 1970s when our country 
sold F-14 Tomcats to Iran's pro-Western secular government. Iran was a 
close ally of the United States at the time and needed the capabilities 
of the F-14 in a dangerous part of the world. Times have changed, 
unfortunately. And Iran has now called for the destruction of Israel 
and is refining uranium in what many observers from the non-
proliferation community believe is an attempt to develop the fuel 
necessary for an atomic weapon.

Iran is a state sponsor of terrorism and is likely responsible for 
arming insurgents in Iraq. Iran has ignored the calls of the 
international community for greater transparency in its nuclear power 
research and development, and the United Nations Security Council 
recently imposed stricter economic sanctions on Iran as a result.

When the United States Navy retired the F-14 fleet last September, 
that left Iran as the only nation still flying those aircraft. Iran has 
been trying to get around United States sanctions and export controls 
to secure the parts necessary to keep the F-14 flying. Recent


undercover investigations and reports have made it clear that Iran may 
have been successful.

Following an undercover investigation, the GAO reported in 2006 that 
acquiring surplus military hardware not properly demilitarized is 
disturbingly easy.

In January of this year, the Associated Press reported that front 
companies were able to secretly purchase military parts for resale in 
Iran. Iran is the only nation still using the F-14. There are no other 
legitimate buyers overseas.

In order to address this issue, I worked with my colleague from New 
Mexico, Mr. Pearce. And after a joint trip to Israel, we introduced 
H.R. 1441, which will prevent the United States Government from selling 
approximately 10,000 parts that are unique only to the F-14 Tomcat.

This legislation will prohibit the military, as well as any other 
private company, from selling F-14-specific parts. It is also, Mr. 
Speaker, a complete ban on all international sales of parts specific to 
the F-14.

We cannot take the risk that components unique to the F-14 could be 
resold to Iran. The text of this bill was included in the fiscal year 
2008 defense authorization bill, H.R. 1585, as section 1049.

The House Armed Services Committee approved the language in its 
markup of that bill, and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs has 
already marked up the specific bill and has reported it favorably.

Mr. Speaker, we must take the responsibility to ensure that our 
military hardware never falls into the hands of nations hostile to the 
United States and can never be used against our men and women in 
uniform and not used against our allies.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1441.

I include for the Record an exchange of letters related to this bill 
between Chairman Skelton of the Armed Services Committee and Chairman 
Lantos of the Foreign Affairs Committee.


























 June 8, 2007.


 Hon. Tom Lantos,


 Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs, Rayburn House Office 




 Building, Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. Chairman, On March 27, 2007, the Committee on 


 Foreign Affairs ordered reported favorably H.R. 1441, ''The 


 Stop Arming Iran Act.'' This legislation contains subject 


 matter within the jurisdiction of the House Committee on 


 Armed Services, and thus, was sequentially referred to the 


 Committee on Armed Services by the Parliamentarian for the 


 House.



 Our Committee recognizes the importance of H.R. 1441 and 


 the need for the legislation to move expeditiously. 


 Therefore, while we have a valid claim to jurisdiction over 


 this legislation, the Committee on Armed Services will waive 


 further consideration of H.R. 1441. I do so with the 


 understanding that by waiving further consideration of the 


 bill, the Committee does not waive any future jurisdictional 


 claims over similar measures. In the event of a conference 


 with the Senate on this bill, the Committee on Armed Services 


 reserves the right to seek the appointment of conferees.



 I would appreciate the inclusion of this letter and a copy 


 of the response in your Committee's report on H.R. 1441 and 


 in the Congressional Record during consideration of the 


 measure on the House floor.





 Very truly yours,



























 Ike Skelton


 Chairman.