# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `169f48c456c0d8e689ff4003a4a9463e`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I support GEN George Casey's confirmation 
to be the next Chief of Staff of the United States Army. His nomination 
was approved by the Armed Services Committee by a vote of 19 to 6.

Through a long and distinguished career, he has held positions of 
increasing responsibility, culminating in that of Commanding General of 
multinational forces in Iraq, in which capacity he served for over 2/1/
2/ years.

Prior to that command, he was Vice Chief of Staff of the Army, which 
was preceded by an assignment as Director of the Joint Staff, and 
before that as Director of Strategy, Plans, and Policy, J-5, on the 
Joint Staff.

General Casey is an infantryman, having commanded at all levels up to 
and including division command. As an assistant division commander, he 
served in Bosnia, and earlier in his career he served in Cairo as a 
U.N. military observer with the U.N. Truce Supervision Organization. He 
also served a tour of duty as a congressional liaison officer.

General Casey knows Iraq and the challenges the Army faces there. He 
also knows the Pentagon and the challenges he will face there. General 
Casey has the knowledge to perform his primary responsibilities as 
Chief of Staff, which is the training and equipping of soldiers and 
caring for them and their families.

There is some opposition to General Casey's nomination because he is 
identified with the administration's failed Iraq strategy, and I agree 
that strategy has not been successful. As a matter of fact, I have 
argued as forcefully as I know how that strategy has not been 
successful and that we need to change course in Iraq.

It is appropriate to hold military leaders responsible for their own 
failures, but the principal failures that have led to the chaos in Iraq 
were decisions of the civilian leaders. General Casey had to deal with 
the consequences of a myriad of flawed policies, including having 
insufficient forces at the outset of the operation, failing to properly 
plan for postwar stability operations, disbanding the Iraqi Army, then 
trying to build a new army, initially using civilian contractors, and 
an overly extensive debaathification program, to name but a few.

All of these critical mistakes, which fueled the insurgency and civil 
disorder, are attributed to the civilian leadership in the White House, 
in the Department of Defense, and in the Coalition Provisional 
Authority. Compounding those mistakes was the effect of detainee abuse 
at Abu Ghraib attributed, in part, to ambiguities in what was 
considered permissible in the interrogation of prisoners fostered by 
that very same civilian leadership in the administration, the White 
House, and the Pentagon, where the advice of uniformed military lawyers 
was overruled. Those critical mistakes were made in the year before 
General Casey took command and had severe adverse consequences which he 
inherited.

General Casey's focus in Iraq was on training and equipping Iraqi 
security forces to bring them as quickly as possible to a level where 
they could relieve American forces from the burden of providing the 
security that Iraqis should be providing for themselves. He was not 
alone in seeing this was a priority. It was also the focus of his boss, 
the Central Command commander, General Abizaid, and his subordinates, 
the Corps commander, Lieutenant General Chiarelli, and the commanders 
of that training effort, Generals Petraeus and later Dempsey. General 
Casey put it this way:




 The longer we in the United States forces continue to bear 


 the main burden of Iraq's security, it lengthens the time 


 that the Government of Iraq has to take the hard decisions 


 about reconciliation and dealing with the militias. And the 


 other thing is that they can continue to blame us for all of 


 Iraq's problems, which are at base their problems.


Those are wise words. General Casey recognized there is no military 
solution to the situation in Iraq, that only a political solution 
enabled by Iraqi politicians making the essential political compromises 
can save the Iraqis from themselves. General Casey is not alone. There 
actually seems to be an agreement among most observers that an Iraqi 
political settlement is a key to ending the violence in Iraq. The 
difference of opinion exists on whether Iraqi politicians need 
breathing space, as President Bush has said, to reach required 
political compromises or whether, as many of us believe, Iraqi 
politicians need to be pressured to make those compromises and that the 
addition of 21,000 more troops doesn't make a political compromise more 
likely, it just gets us in deeper into a civil conflict.

It has been said that General Casey was too optimistic about the 
possibility of troops being reduced, having predicted in the spring and 
summer of 2006 and then subsequently predicting that reduction toward 
the end of 2006 and into 2007 was possible. He did make those 
predictions, and I think he was clearly overly optimistic. He has made 
a number of mistakes, but the key fundamental flaws were the mistakes


made, the wrong judgments of the civilian leadership of this country, 
not the uniformed military leaders of this country.


Was he too optimistic? Yes. Is he still too optimistic? I believe he 
is. When asked about whether he agreed with what the President finally 
said the other day, that we are on a road to slow failure--the 
President finally stepping up to acknowledging the reality in Iraq--
General Casey said he believed we are still on a road to slow success. 
That is how optimistic he is.

I am not going to hold that against him. I think he is wrong in that 
excessive optimism, but we expect our military leaders to be 
enthusiastic and positive about the missions they are assigned--the 
missions that they are assigned--by their civilian leaders. We expect 
them to be confident and to inspire their soldiers with the importance 
of those missions, to keep their morale high, and General Casey did 
that.

He has also increased and decreased troops--both--depending on the 
missions assigned to him by the civilian leaders.

As he testified, he requested additional troops on six occasions for 
specific missions, such as to provide security for the elections or 
otherwise deal with spikes of violence. However, mindful of the stress 
on soldiers and their families and on the deteriorating readiness of 
the nondeployed units in the Army and the Marine Corps, he also sought 
opportunities for reductions--both directions.

One of the real questions I had to face in addressing this nomination 
was whether General Casey changed his tune when it came to this surge 
of additional troops that is being requested or being sent by the 
President. I pressed him on this issue at his nomination hearing before 
the Armed Services Committee.

I want to read the exchange between General Casey and myself at his 
hearing within the last week.

I asked General Casey the following:




 We asked General Abizaid back in November when he appeared 


 before this committee whether he needed more troops or 


 whether he supported more troops going to Iraq. And this is 


 just last November. And this is what he said. He said that he 


 met with every divisional commander, General Casey, the Corps 


 commander, General Dempsey. ''We all talked together. And I 


 said, in your professional opinion, if you were to bring in 


 more American troops now, does it add considerably to our 


 ability to achieve success in Iraq? And they all said no. And 


 the reason is because we want Iraqis to do more. It's easy 


 for the Iraqis to rely upon us to do this work. I believe--


This is General Abizaid speaking--



 that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from doing more, 


 from taking more responsibility for their own future.''


I continued in my questioning of General Casey:




 Now, General Abizaid said that he spoke to you and that his 


 opinion reflected your opinion and all the other commanders. 


 Was that true when he said it?


General Casey:




 I'm not exactly sure when in November it was, but it was.


Senator Levin:




 So you've changed your view since November?


General Casey:




 As I described in my opening testimony, Senator, in mid 


 November was when the reevaluation of the plan was taking 


 place. So I suspect John and I talked before that. And that 


 does reflect my general view on additional U.S. forces in 


 Iraq.


Senator Levin:




 It reflects a general view, but then there was some kind of 


 a reevaluation which took place in mid November.


General Casey:




 That's right, Senator. We're constantly reevaluating how 


 we're doing and what we need.


Senator Levin:




 But that position that General Abizaid stated was your 


 position when you spoke to him in early November presumably 


 still remains your general view.


General Casey:




 That's correct.


Senator Levin:




 Well, if that's your general view, what is the change? Why 


 are you modifying your general view for this surge?


General Casey:




 What has changed, Senator, are several things: One, the 


 development of a plan, a new plan that was conceived by the 


 Iraqis and worked in concert with us; so there is a plan that 


 laid out requirement for those forces. So just to say do you 


 need more forces is one thing; to say do you need more forces 


 to execute this plan is quite another. And we do need an 


 additional two brigades to implement that plan.


I think he is giving us a straightforward answer to that question. 
His general view is, and was before the new plan was adopted, that we 
did not need more forces in Iraq; that it took the Iraqis off the hook. 
There was a new plan which was adopted by the administration, by the 
Commander in Chief, by the civilian leadership of this country. That 
plan requires that we not just clear neighborhoods but that we then 
remain in neighborhoods in Baghdad.

Do I think that is a wise plan? I do not. I am going to vote against 
the surge. I think it gets us in deeper militarily. This is a military 
officer who has been given a new plan and has been asked what are the 
requirements for that new plan which has been adopted by the civilian 
leaders of this country. And when given a new plan by the Commander in 
Chief, he very properly said that is going to require some additional 
troops.

Again, we are going to debate the plan, the wisdom of it, I hope one 
of these days. We are going to debate the wisdom of whether this surge 
makes sense. But given a new plan, given that decision, what General 
Casey is saying is that his general view about the lack of the wisdom 
of increasing the military presence in Iraq has to be modified when 
there is a new requirement, a new plan which requires us to be present 
in the neighborhoods of Baghdad.

Once again, although I disagree with the plan, I view that as a 
satisfactory explanation for why he now supports the additional troops. 
Not to the same extent that the President has proposed or decided upon, 
but to the extent of two brigades. He said the additional brigades will 
give additional flexibility. He doesn't have any problem with that, but 
he testified that was not what his recommendation was.

So his emphasis on building up Iraqi security forces to relieve 
Americans of the tasks that Iraqis should be doing for themselves is a 
critical part of any strategy in Iraq that has a chance of success, and 
it is key to the ultimate U.S. military disengagement. The real key to 
a stable and secure Iraq and a viable Iraq is a political solution that 
can only be reached by the leaders in Iraq, the politicians. And what 
American political leaders need to do, in my judgment, is to pressure 
those politicians to make that happen.

That was never General Casey's responsibility. General Casey never 
had the responsibility of doing what is critically essential 
politically, which is to put pressure on the Iraqi politicians to reach 
a political settlement. He is a military man. He is a military man who, 
by his own acknowledgment, has made a number of mistakes. Indeed, he 
listed a number of mistakes for us that he has made and that he takes 
responsibility for. But the fundamental mistakes which have led to the 
chaos in Iraq, which did not allow us to help to create in Iraq a 
stable and viable country, which is the goal of all of us, those 
fundamental mistakes were the mistakes made by the civilian leaders of 
this country. To hold him accountable or responsible, and to vote 
against him because of the major mistakes which led to this chaos 
through not the uniformed leaders' mistakes but through our civilian 
leaders' mistakes, it seems to me, is inappropriate and unfair, and I 
will vote for his confirmation.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.