---
---

# CELEBRATION OF QUILTS OF VALOR FOUNDATION
## `16a73cc2336e624f02f14f5784f37be7`
`Mr. CARPER — 29 October 2007`

---

 Mr. CARPER. Madam President, today I wish to celebrate the 
Quilts of Valor Foundation. In a time when thousands of American 
families are sending their loved ones around the world to fight for the 
safety and security of all of us here at home, the Quilts of Valor 
Foundation has stepped forward to give something back to our wounded 
heroes. This foundation has pledged to sew and donate a Quilt of Valor 
to every servicemember wounded in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. Their 
mission is to offer comfort and support to our wounded heroes.

An organization not about politics, but about people, the Quilts of 
Valor Foundation was established in November 2003 by Catherine Roberts 
of Seaford, DE, Since that time, thousands of volunteers from all over 
the United States have created over 13,000 quilts for our injured 
service men and women. With the help of military chaplains at medical 
centers throughout the United States, Europe and in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, the Quilts of Valor Foundation locates wounded soldiers 
and presents them with a hand-made quilt. That quilt is a symbol of the 
respect and honor that we as a country hold for them and their 
sacrifice.

The organization has two main missions which frame their important 
service to our country. First and foremost, the Quilts of Valor 
Foundation is dedicated to honoring those men and women who have been 
wounded, whether physically or psychologically, in Iraq and Afghanistan 
with a Quilt of Valor. Second, the Quilts of Valor Foundation hopes 
that by teaching young people to quilt and by spreading a culture of 
volunteerism, a new generation of Americans will become more civically 
involved and dedicated to bettering our Nation in whatever way they 
can.

I would like to acknowledge and sincerely thank Catherine Roberts, 
the Quilts of Valor Foundation, and all the volunteers, especially 
those in Delaware, who put so much time, money, effort, and love into 
every quilt to comfort our servicemembers and let them know how much we 
at home value their sacrifices.
