---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `16dc82ce98e3f48d3b76c886bef855e9`
`Mr. CUMMINGS â€” 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Chairman, I rise today in support of the National 
Defense Authorization Act. This legislation is of vital importance, 
because it ensures that the Department of Defense has the funding 
necessary to replenish the depleted resources of the U.S. military and 
provides accountability standards as our military operations continue 
in Iraq. One of the critical issues we addressed in the House Armed 
Services Committee was the need to support our troops in combat 
operations.

We accomplish this task by providing $141.8 billion in emergency 
supplemental spending, which will provide for new combat vehicles and 
armor that will protect our men and women in uniform from traumatic 
brain injuries and


increase their overall survival rate. Additionally, this bill 
safeguards and enhances access to care and treatment programs for our 
injured servicemembers under the auspices of the Wounded Warriors 
Assistance Act.

Finally, we address the need for oversight and accountability 
standards for our military operations in Iraq. Congressman David 
Loebsack and I have an amendment included in the bill that requires 
Secretary Gates, General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker to submit 
reports to the Congress on the status of the implementation of the 
Joint Campaign Plan.

I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this critical defense bill.