# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `16e69053c1af0059181349c857927941`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, among the four amendments this morning 
will be one submitted by me, together with my principal cosponsor, 
Senator Collins. The purpose of this amendment is to require the 
administration to keep the Congress well informed. The situation in 
Iraq changes almost daily. Our losses continue. In my judgment, it is 
the responsibility of every Member of the Congress to keep well versed 
on this situation, keep in mind the perspectives with regard to the 
strategy as enunciated by the administration, and maintain their own 
individual opinions about that strategy and how this operation is 
going. Daily, each of us must consult with our constituents. 
Regrettably, almost weekly many of us have to speak with families of 
the loved ones they have lost or those who have been seriously injured.

There are several parts to the amendment I put forward. I thank many 
Senators who worked with me--indeed,


both sides of the aisle, together with their professional staffs. The 
first part of the amendment goes through extensive findings, 
principally acknowledging the extraordinary heroism and bravery of the 
men and women wearing the uniform of our country, together with our 
coalition partners and the families who stand behind them. They 
unquestionably have performed in a manner consistent with the finest 
traditions of the professionalism of the U.S. military.

The findings also address the historical progress of the Iraqi 
Government in its formation, but also raises questions of the several 
benchmarks, benchmarks which were selected and composed by the Iraqi 
Government, announced by that government, and their commitments to 
trying to meet those benchmarks.

Taken together, I think it is very important that our strategy in 
Iraq be put in a position where it reflects in many respects the degree 
of success in meeting these benchmarks and, if these benchmarks are not 
met, then such changes as our President desires to make from his 
strategy as announced on January 10 of this year.

We, in this amendment, recite as the benchmarks that are most serious 
his forming a constitutional review committee and then completing the 
constitutional review; enacting and implementing legislation on 
debaathification; enacting and implementing legislation to ensure the 
equitable distribution of hydrocarbon resources of the people of Iraq 
without regard to sect or ethnicity of recipients; and enacting and 
implementing legislation to ensure that the energy resources of Iraq 
benefit Sunni Arabs, Shia Arabs, Kurds, and other Iraqi citizens in an 
equitable manner.

That is sort of a description of the basic category of these 
benchmarks. Then we go on to require the President of the United States 
to report on how this sovereign Government of Iraq is or is not 
achieving progress toward accomplishing the aforementioned benchmarks, 
and shall advise the Congress on how that assessment requires or does 
not require changes to the strategy announced on January 10, 2007.

Among the reports required, the President shall submit an initial 
report in classified and unclassified form to the Congress not later 
than June 15, 2007.

I purposely selected that date because our schedule reflects that 
this body will go into a recess for much of August. I think it is 
absolutely imperative every Member have the benefit of the latest 
possible assessment of the performance or nonperformance by the Iraqi 
Government of these benchmarks, as well as the situation in Iraq. So 
the President will do that on July 15, assessing the status of each of 
the benchmarks.

Next, the President, having consulted with the Secretary of State, 
Secretary of Defense, the commander of the multinational forces, 
General Petraeus, and Admiral Fallon, will prepare a report and submit 
to the Congress his findings. If the President's assessment of any of 
the specific benchmarks established above is unsatisfactory, the 
President shall include in that report a description of such revisions 
to the political--not just the military but the political, the 
economic, regional, and military components of the strategy as 
announced by the President on January 10, 2007.

In addition, the President shall include in the report the 
advisability of implementing such aspects of the bipartisan Iraq Study 
Group report as he deems appropriate. That was a very valuable report. 
I think it has provided a considerable number of guideposts that have 
been embraced by Members of this body.

Then the President shall submit a second report not later than 
September 15, 2007, following the same procedures and criteria 
enunciated above. The reporting requirement of the Armed Services 
Committee bill of last year will be waived through September 15 so as 
not to have duplication. Then testimony before the Congress. Prior to 
the submission of the President's second report on September 15, 2007, 
and at a time to be agreed upon by the leadership of the Congress and 
the administration, the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq and the commander of 
multinational forces, General Petraeus, will be made available to 
testify in open and closed sessions before the relevant committees of 
our Congress. There again, we get their independent report followed by 
that of the President.

We also place some limitations on the availability of the nonmilitary 
funding in this appropriations bill, such that the President can 
restrict that funding in those instances where he believes, first, 
there is more than adequate funding in the pipeline already and 
therefore it doesn't require the additional expenditure of funds; or, 
second, the Iraqi Government has substantial cash in their reserve 
accounts that could be applied to the nonmilitary aspects. Further, the 
President is given waiver authority with regard to the benchmarks so 
the flow of these funds is tied in some respects, again, to the 
performance of the benchmarks.

We also put a section in this report requiring the redeployment of 
our forces in such circumstances as the sovereign Iraqi Government, 
having taken actions consistent with their Constitution, should call 
upon the United States and other partners of the coalition forces to 
withdraw certain elements of their troops--respecting, once again, and 
placing upon them the obligation to fulfill the responsibilities of 
sovereignty.

Also, we put in this amendment requirements for independent analysis 
of much of the same material that is being reviewed by the 
administration. While we have over the years, for example, trained for 
now 2/1/2/ to 3 years, some 325,000 Iraqi armed forces and police, what 
is the ability of that trained group, such as it is, to take up more 
and more of the responsibility in the fighting, and particularly that 
fighting that relates to sectarian violence?

For that purpose, we have two parts. The first addresses the 
Comptroller General. He is being requested to make an assessment of all 
of the benchmarks as to whether they have been met or not met. Second, 
we appropriate a sum of money to fund an independent organization and a 
very senior, well-respected, retired, four-star officer to head up a 
military, professional assessment by the retired community, of the 
Iraqi forces. I think that is a pivotal part of this amendment. I just 
hesitate to think why any Member could vote against a provision saying 
that we need a fresh, new, independent assessment of the capabilities 
or lack of capabilities of the Iraqi security forces. That is in here.

Mr. President, I urge colleagues to carefully consider this 
amendment.

It is for their benefit to keep them informed, both requiring the 
administration to come forward with timely reports and testimony and, 
secondly, two independent organizations, one the Comptroller General to 
give an assessment of benchmarks and, second, that we have an 
organization well known to all of us here, a private sector 
organization to give support to a senior, highly respected uniform 
retired four-star general to make an assessment of the military 
capabilities of the Iraqi forces.

Again, I thank my colleagues. I particularly thank my principal 
cosponsor, the Senator from Maine, for her diligent effort throughout 
the preparation of this amendment as well as the previous initiatives 
we have taken on this floor over the past 2 months with respect to the 
President's policy, particularly the surge policy.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.