# None
## `16e9ca0d45ec4777e7b807cc4aaf2036`
`Mrs. BOXER — 25 September 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I hope my colleagues will indulge me for 
about 5 or 6 minutes while I speak about the Biden-Brownback-Boxer-
Specter, and many other colleagues on both sides of the aisle, 
amendment. I wish to say to my colleague from Delaware how much I 
appreciate what he has done. In the face of so much opposition, he has 
kept to this idea that we need to respect the Iraqis enough to 
understand the reality of their situation.

I remember before we had the vote on whether to go to war, or give 
the President the authority to go to war, a friend of mine, former 
Congressman John Burton, called me and said: Barbara, I want you to 
read one book before you cast your vote, one book that I think explains 
what Iraq is about. That book is entitled ''The Reckoning,'' and it was 
written by someone named Sandra Mackey, a historian, in 2002. So I read 
the book before we voted on whether to give the President authority to 
go into Iraq. The book detailed how Saddam Hussein egregiously used his 
power as a brutal dictator and a strongman to hold that country 
together. She explains the history of Iraq and why the only way to hold 
it together, in her view, was by such a strongman and what a terrible 
reality she came to. She said that after World War I, Iraq was a young, 
fragile country, patched together by the victorious European powers.

She wrote:




 Within its artificial boundaries, the Iraqis have lived for 


 eight decades as a collection of competing families, tribes, 


 regions, tongues, and faiths. This complex, multilayered 


 mosaic of Arabs and nonArabs, Muslims, and Christians, is 


 trisected by Iraq's three major population groups, each in 


 possession of a distinct identity; each group dominates a 


 region of Iraq--the Sunnis the center, the Shia the south, 


 the Kurds the north.


She goes on to conclude:




 Iraq is a state, not a nation. Over the 80 years of their 


 common history, the Iraqis have engaged in the conflicted, 


 and at times convoluted search for a common identity. But 


 Iraqis as a whole have never reached consensus.


What Senator Biden has understood for several years now, and why I 
was so interested in supporting him from the very start as a proud 
member of his Foreign Relations Committee, is we have to deal with the 
Iraq we have, not the Iraq we wish we had. If that sounds similar to 
someone--I understand that is a similar sentence. But we don't have an 
Iraq that we romantically wish we had. After all, as Senator Biden has 
said many times, for Iraq to survive and thrive, they have to want 
democracy as much as we want it for them. I think that quote by Senator 
Biden has been in my mind since the very start of this war that I did 
not vote for.

So I see a light at the end of a very dark tunnel--a darkness that is 
impacting our Nation. It is impacting the Senate in a way where we are 
paralyzed. We can't get from A to B; we can't see this light. We can't 
grab it. We argue over military tactics such as a surge. Our military 
has done everything we have asked them to do. But every single military 
leader and political leader has told us there is only one solution, and 
it is a diplomatic one. In this very important amendment, what Senator 
Biden and the rest of us are doing is saying, there is a light at the 
end of the tunnel. Look at the Kurds. Look at the Kurdish area. Do my 
colleagues know, and thank God, we haven't lost one soldier in that 
area. Of the approximately 165,000 soldiers we have there, only 100 
soldiers are there.

The Kurds are running their own lives. They even fly the Kurdish 
flag. They make their own decisions. I think worth repeating is this 
solution we are putting before the Senate today--we hope it is today--
recognizes the Iraqis will decide this for themselves, that this idea 
is consistent with the Constitution, not outside their Constitution. Of 
course, they will be the ones who have to embrace this.

But what this amendment does is it says to the world we are ready to 
move past a military solution. We understand we are not going to have 
lasting


peace when all you have on the table is a gun and bullets. We have to 
put a diplomatic solution on the table.

So I am very delighted to have this time now. I don't know if I will 
have any time later to speak, but I have said what I need to say. I 
think this is a golden moment for us. I think we could move this debate 
in a better direction, in a direction all of us want to move it, 
whether we are Republicans or Democrats, whether we voted for the war 
or not. We want to craft some type of political solution. We want a 
roadmap. The Senator from Delaware has given it to us. I am proud to be 
a part of this bipartisan group that has cosponsored this.

I yield the floor.