---
---

# DWELL TIME
## `16f69a32afa3d878f0012703b28294ae`
`Mr. DODD — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, for 4 long years, our Nation has been 
engaged in a war without a clear objective, exit strategy, or 
international mandate, and the consequences of such policies have been 
devastating. Our moral standing in the world has plummeted. Iraq is now 
mired in civil war, and terrorists have found a recruiting and training 
ground for attacking American troops. But few effects of this war are 
more troubling than the destructive impact this war has had on our 
Armed Forces.

Approximately 3,800 brave American servicemembers have been killed in 
Iraq, and tens of thousands have been severely wounded. Military 
families have been forced to endure long and repeated stretches of time 
without their loved ones. And most significant, our forces have been 
stretched thin to a near-breaking point. This can be seen in the ever 
increasing number of suicides among our returning servicemembers, 
alltime low reenlistment rates, and the destruction of our military 
families. The adage is true--we recruit a soldier, but we retain a 
family. And if that family is broken, so, too, will be the soldier.

While long deployments are testing our troops in the field, they are 
also


taxing critical stocks of combat gear and training time. According to 
some reports, over two-thirds of our Army and 88 percent of our 
National Guard are unable to report for duty due to equipment 
shortfalls and insufficient military instruction stateside.

The bipartisan Webb amendment is an important step toward restoring 
our military's readiness and providing the important support that our 
servicemembers and families need and deserve.

It would implement two simple principles--if a unit or member of a 
Regular component of the Armed Forces deploys to Iraq or Afghanistan, 
they will have the same time at home before they are redeployed. No 
unit or member of a Reserve component, including the National Guard, 
could be redeployed to Iraq or Afghanistan within 3 years of their 
previous deployment.

These are the very principles incoming Secretary of Defense Robert 
Gates committed to months ago. And now, the distinguished junior 
Senator from Virginia has modified his proposal to address objections 
raised concerning both the time the Pentagon needs to implement it and 
the flexibility needed for our special operations forces, SOF.

Senator Webb's amendment now allows 120 days for the Department to 
implement its provisions and provides exceptions for SOF. But as is 
clear, the administration still objects to any interference by this 
body in how we expect our troops to be treated. Of course, this body 
has a unique role in the governance of our Armed Forces. Specifically, 
article 1, section 8 of the Constitution states that the Congress shall 
have the power to, '' make rules for the Government and Regulation of 
the land and naval Forces.'' Obviously, the Founding Fathers of this 
great Nation had a very specific idea of how the Congress should behave 
with respect to the troops--that Congress, and Congress alone, should 
have the power and authority to govern and regulate our forces. We can 
see first hand the tragedy that occurs when the administration is given 
a free hand to engage our troops in conflict without any oversight from 
this body--and we should reassert our constitutional prerogative.

Since the war's beginning I have tried to advance initiatives that 
would reverse the administration's irresponsible defense policies, so 
that our troops would be prepared and protected in combat and our 
country made safer. In 2003, I offered an amendment to the emergency 
supplemental appropriations bill to add $322 million for critical 
protective gear identified by the Army that the Bush administration had 
failed to include in their budget. But it was blocked by the 
administration and their allies. In 2004 and 2005, I authored 
legislation, signed into law, to reimburse troops for equipment that 
they had to purchase on their own because the Rumsfeld Pentagon failed 
to provide them with the body armor and other gear they needed to stay 
safe. And last year, working with Senators Inouye, Reed, and Stevens, I 
offered an amendment to help address a $17 billion budget shortfall to 
replace and repair thousands of war-battered tanks, aircraft, and 
vehicles. Without these additional resources, the Army Chief of Staff 
claimed that U.S. Army readiness would deteriorate even further. This 
provision was approved unanimously and enacted in law. But much more 
remains to be done.

Senator Webb's amendment is an important first step, but it is only 
the first step. Ultimately, we need to withdraw our combat forces as 
quickly as possible. This can only be accomplished by changing our 
mission in Iraq, and it will only be accomplished when this body 
finally stands up to the administration and their failed policies and 
enacts legislation that will bring our troops home. I strongly support 
this amendment and hope all of our colleagues do as well.