---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE
## `16fc85b4dfbc36dd8bfefd30f9283683`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 21 October 2009`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, yesterday the Supreme Court announced 
it would hear a case that has critical ramifications for our ability to 
detain foreign nationals safely outside our borders during wartime at 
the U.S. naval station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The case also provides 
insight into the question of the best place to detain and try foreign 
terrorists.

The case involves a group of ethnic Chinese Uighurs who are detained 
at Guantanamo Bay. The Uighurs won their habeas corpus petition to be 
released from custody. Many of these Uighurs, however, had received 
terrorist training in the Tora Bora Mountains of Afghanistan, including 
weapons training on AK-47 assault rifles at a camp run by the head of a 
group that our State Department has designated a terrorist organization 
and that the United Nations has listed as a group associated with Osama 
bin Laden, al-Qaida, or the Taliban.

Not surprisingly, it has not been easy to find countries eager to 
accept the Uighurs into their civilian populations. So the Uighurs sued 
to be released into the United States. Federal District Court Judge 
Ricardo Urbina granted the Uighurs' request and ordered them released 
in our country. It did not matter to Judge Urbina that the Uighurs did 
not have an immigration status or that they had received military-style 
weapons training or that they had associated with a terrorist group. He 
was persuaded by their argument that justice required that they be 
released right here in the United States.

Fortunately, the DC Circuit Court reversed Judge Urbina. It ruled 
that even though the Uighurs had won their habeas corpus petition, they 
did not have a right to be released into the United States. In other 
words, it ruled that even if the government had to release them, it did 
not have to release them into Alexandria or Annandale or Falls Church 
or anywhere else in Northern Virginia that the Uighurs might like to 
go.

The DC Circuit's ruling is important to national security in general 
and to the debate over where we should try foreign terrorists in 
particular. The DC Circuit noted that the Supreme Court has held that 
foreign nationals, without property or presence in the United States, 
have fewer legal rights than foreign nationals who are present on 
American soil.

The DC Circuit also noted that the Supreme Court has repeatedly ruled 
that a sovereign has a right to control its borders, and that means it 
has a right to bar from being released into its territory foreign 
nationals whom it has not admitted onto its soil.

In short, because these detainees remain at Guantanamo outside our 
borders, they have fewer legal rights than they would have if they were 
brought within our borders, including the right to be released into our 
civilian population.

We don't know how the DC Circuit would have ruled if the Uighurs had 
been present on U.S. soil. But we do know a couple of things. First, 
the DC


Circuit's reason for not releasing them into the United States was that 
they had not been brought into the United States. Let me say that 
again. The DC Circuit's reason for not releasing them in the United 
States was that they had not been brought here. Second, other foreign 
nationals who have committed murder and other serious crimes who were 
in the United States have been released here when our government could 
not transfer them to another country, either because they did not want 
to go to another country or because other countries did not want to 
take them.

The administration and its defenders in the Senate say that because 
we have tried terrorists in civilian courts before, we should do so 
again. They say there is no problem with us doing so because the 
administration would never release detainees into the United States, by 
which they really mean to say the administration would not 
intentionally release detainees into the United States. Both assertions 
miss the mark.

First, whether we can try terrorists here is not the issue. The issue 
is whether we should try terrorists here. We can try them here, but 
should we? Before he became Attorney General, Michael Mukasey was a 
noted Federal trial judge who presided over civilian trials of 
terrorists such as the trial of the so-called Blind Sheik, Omar Abdel 
Rahman, for the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. He has written that 
there are very good reasons we should not try terrorists in a civilian 
court. This is a judge who presided over a terrorist trial in a U.S. 
civilian court, and this is what he says: We should not try terrorists 
in civilian court, including the additional legal rights terrorists 
will receive if they are brought here.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record at the 
conclusion of my remarks General Mukasey's recent op-ed on the topic.