# VOTE EXPLANATIONS
## `16ffefda6e564e333a703d19581ac02b`
`Mr. BROWNBACK â€” 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I regret that on May 24 I was unable to 
vote on the motion to concur in House amendment to Senate amendment to 
H.R. 2206, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, 
and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act of 2007. Regarding vote No. 
181, I would have voted in favor of the motion to concur in House 
amendment to Senate amendment to H.R. 2206. My vote would not have 
altered the result of this motion.

Mr. President, I also regret that on May 24 I was unable to vote on 
certain provisions of S. 1348, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act 
of 2007. I wish to address these votes so that the people of the great 
State of Kansas, who elected me to serve them as U.S. Senator, may know 
my position.

Regarding vote No. 176, on amendment No. 1186, I would have voted in 
favor of this amendment. My vote would not have altered the final 
result of this vote.

Regarding vote No. 177, on amendment No. 1158, I would have voted in 
favor of this amendment. My vote would not have altered the final 
result of this vote.

Regarding vote No. 178, on amendment No. 1181, I would not have voted 
in favor of this amendment. My vote would not have altered the final 
result of this vote.

Regarding vote No. 179, on amendment No. 1223, I would have voted in 
favor of this amendment. My vote would not have altered the final 
result of this vote.

Regarding vote No. 180, on amendment No. 1157, I would not have voted 
in favor of this amendment. My vote would not have altered the final 
result of this vote.
