# IRAQ
## `1705d1d927539ec4f8c8eb256eb64f46`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, first let me thank the Senator from 
Massachusetts for his moving and sobering words but even more 
importantly for his leadership and tremendous clarity on this issue 
over these last few critical years.

Mr. President, we are approaching the 4-year anniversary of one of 
the greatest foreign policy mistakes in our country's history. In March 
2003, with the prior authorization of Congress, the President took this 
country to war in Iraq. Almost 4 years later, virtually every objective 
observer and, more importantly, the American people as a whole agree 
that the President's policy has failed. Even the President acknowledges 
that his plan has not worked, though his solution is not a new plan but 
a troop escalation. Of course, sending more troops to implement what is 
essentially the same flawed strategy makes no sense. The American 
people agree that it makes no sense, and most of my colleagues agree 
that it makes no sense.

So the question becomes, with a President unable or unwilling to fix 
a flawed policy that is jeopardizing our national security and our 
military readiness, what should we in Congress do about our country's 
involvement in this disastrous war? Do we do nothing and hope the 
President will put things right, when he has shown time and time again 
that he is incapable of doing so? Do we simply tell the President that 
we are unhappy with the way the war is going and that we hope he will 
change course or do we take strong, decisive action to fix the 
President's mistaken, self-defeating policies?

It is pretty clear which course of action I support. I think it is a 
course of action the American people called for in the November 
elections. It is the course of action our national security needs, so 
we do not continue to neglect global threats and challenges while we 
focus so much of our resources and our efforts on Iraq. It is the 
course of action that will support--that will actually support--our 
brave troops and their families.

We must end our involvement in this tragic and misguided war. The 
President will not do so; therefore, Congress must act. So far, 
Congress has not lived up to that responsibility. Instead of taking 
strong action in the Senate, instead of considering binding legislation 
that fixes the President's flawed Iraq strategy, we tied ourselves into 
knots last week in a convoluted and misguided effort to achieve a 
consensus that would have essentially reaffirmed congressional 
authorization for continuing our military involvement in Iraq. Of 
course, here I am referring to the resolution proposed by the senior 
Senator from Virginia. This resolution was portrayed, at least at 
first, by members of both parties as an important symbolic rebuke of 
the President's Iraq policy. In fact, it really was not a rebuke at 
all. In parts, it reads like a reauthorization of the war, rejecting 
troop redeployment and specifically authorizing ''vigorous operations'' 
in a critical region in Iraq.

Now, when debate on the Warner resolution was blocked, we had a 
chance


to get things right. And I am glad our majority leader, Senator Reid, 
has chosen to bring up the resolution being debated in the House today 
expressing support for the troops and, simply, opposition to the so-
called surge. Now, this body--the Senate--should go on record in 
opposition to, or support of, the President's plan.

I will vote to allow the debate on the resolution to take place. And 
I hope I will have the opportunity to actually vote for the resolution.

I have yet to hear any convincing argument that sending 21,500 more 
troops to Iraq will bring about the political solution that is needed 
to end violence in that country.

The President's decision to send more troops is based on two flawed 
assumptions. It assumes, first, that the presence of even more of our 
servicemembers will help Iraqi troops improve security in Baghdad and, 
second, that with improved security, Iraqi politicians can then achieve 
national reconciliation. The recent declassified NIE, or National 
Intelligence Estimate, shot holes in both of those assumptions. It said 
that Iraqi security forces ''will be hard pressed in the next 12-18 
months to execute significantly increased security responsibilities'' 
and ''even if violence is diminished, given the current winner-take-all 
attitude and sectarian animosities infecting the political scene, Iraqi 
leaders will be hard pressed to achieve sustained political 
reconciliation in the time frame of this Estimate.''

Obviously, those were direct quotes, not me characterizing the NIE. 
In other words, in the best case scenario, U.S. forces provide a little 
security that Iraqi forces can't sustain on their own and that Iraqi 
politicians won't use to settle their entrenched differences. That 
doesn't sound to me like a plan for success.

Some of my colleagues, even those who don't support sending more 
troops to Baghdad, have spoken in favor of continued and even increased 
U.S. military operations in Al Anbar Province. Some of them even 
suggest that our troops should be directly combating an insurgency 
there. This, apart from everything else, is a recipe for disaster. Al 
Anbar Province is where a majority of U.S. troops have been killed in 
Iraq. The insurgency there, as well as general opposition to the U.S. 
presence and to the Shiite-dominated Government in Baghdad, is fueled 
by the Sunnis' political and economic grievances. Conducting targeted 
missions to take out terrorists makes sense, but using U.S. troops to 
put down an insurgency doesn't. Maintaining or, worse yet, increasing a 
substantial U.S. presence in a primarily Sunni area without a political 
solution means nothing less than a continuation of unending and self-
defeating policies in Iraq. Clearly, the President's decision to send 
more troops makes no sense. But I have to say that simply passing a 
nonbinding resolution criticizing it makes no sense, either, if we just 
stop there. So we need to go further, and we need to do it soon.

Let me remind my colleagues, when the voters rejected the President's 
Iraq policy in November, they weren't rejecting an escalation. That 
option wasn't even on the table then. Who was talking about an 
escalation during that campaign? Certainly, the Presiding Officer knows 
well what was being discussed. They were rejecting the President's 
policy of trying to achieve a political solution in Iraq with a massive 
and unlimited military presence. After delaying action for a couple of 
months, the President just plain ignored overwhelming public sentiment, 
the advice of Members of both parties, and the views of the military 
and foreign policy experts when he proposed an escalation. The 
administration turned its back on the American people.

We in Congress should not follow suit. We have a responsibility to 
our constituents and to our men and women in uniform. If no one will 
listen to and act on the will of the American people, then there is 
something seriously wrong with our political system. After almost 4 
years of a disastrous policy, we must bring our troops out of Iraq. To 
do otherwise is to ignore public outrage over the war and to ignore the 
many other pressing national security priorities we are neglecting in 
favor of a myopic focus on Iraq. The American people recognize there is 
no U.S. military solution to Iraq's civil war. And as long as we focus 
disproportionate attention and resources on Iraq, we will not be able 
to counter the full range of threats we face in places such as 
Afghanistan and Somalia and many other places around the world. So 
Congress must use its power. It must use its power of the purse to 
safely redeploy our troops from Iraq.

Let's not be intimidated by the intentionally misleading rhetoric of 
the White House and its allies when they try to prevent any discussion 
at all of real action by the Congress to end the war. This isn't about 
cutting off funds for troops; it is about cutting off funds for the 
war. Every Member of Congress agrees that we must continue to support 
our troops and give them the resources and the support they need. By 
setting a date after which funding for the war will be terminated, as I 
have proposed, Congress can safely bring our troops out of harm's way. 
That is how you get them out of harm's way, by getting them out of 
there.

There is plenty of precedent for Congress exercising its 
constitutional authority to stop U.S. involvement in armed conflict. 
Last month, I chaired a Judiciary Committee hearing entitled 
''Exercising Congress's Constitutional Power to End the War.'' Without 
exception, every witness, those called by the majority and the 
minority, those who have had a career more focused on the executive 
branch than the legislative branch--all of them did not challenge the 
constitutionality of Congress's authority to end the war.


Lou Fisher of the Library of Congress is acclaimed as one of the 
foremost experts on the President's war powers. In fact, he literally 
wrote the book on this topic. He testified that Congress does not 
simply have the power, he said it has the responsibility to exercise 
it, when needed.

He said:




 . . . is the continued use of military force and a military 


 commitment in the Nation's interest? That is the core 


 question. Once you decide that, if you decide it is not in 


 the national interest, you certainly do not want to continue 


 putting U.S. troops in harm's way.


The argument that cutting off funding for a flawed policy would hurt 
the troops and that continuing to put U.S. troops in harm's way 
supports the troops makes no sense. By ending funding for the war, we 
can bring our troops safely out of Iraq.

Walter Dellinger of Duke Law School made this point when he testified 
about my proposal. He said:




 There would not be one penny less for the salary of the 


 troops. There would not be one penny less for the benefit of 


 the troops. There would not be one penny less for weapons or 


 ammunition. There would not be one penny less for supplies or 


 support. Those troops would simply be redeployed to other 


 areas where the armed forces are utilized.


Instead of allowing the President's failed policy to continue, 
Congress can and should use its power of the purse to end our 
involvement in the Iraq war, safely redeploying the troops while 
ensuring, as do I in my bill, that important counterterrorism and 
training missions are still carried out. We should be coming up with a 
strategy for a postredeployment Iraq and the region that is squarely 
within the context of the global fight against al-Qaida. That means 
replacing a massive and unsustainable and unlimited military mission 
with a long-term strategy for mitigating the mess left behind by this 
war. With such a strategy, we can redirect substantially more resources 
and attention to the fight against al-Qaida and other affiliated or 
sympathetic international terrorist organizations.

As long as this President goes unchecked by Congress, our troops will 
remain needlessly at risk and our national security will be 
compromised.

Let me tell my colleagues, regardless of what happens with this 
resolution, this is just a first step--worthwhile but just a first 
step. And the first step must be followed by stronger steps, and it 
must be done quickly. I intend to keep pushing until the Senate votes 
to end our involvement in the Iraq war, and eventually this will happen 
because this is what a strong majority of the American people want. 
Congress may be able to put off its day of reckoning temporarily, the 
administration can continue down the same failed path a while longer, 
but all of us ignore the will of the American people at our peril. So 
let's have this debate. Let's do it openly and honestly. Let's not 
pretend anyone wants to deny our troops


the equipment and resources they need. Let's not suggest that opposing 
the President's strategy is unpatriotic and that it would give aid and 
comfort to the enemy, that it would somehow weaken the resolve of our 
troops. Those claims are outrageous. They are offensive, and they are 
untrue. Do my colleagues believe the American people gave aid and 
comfort to the enemy when they rejected the President's Iraq policy in 
November? Are the overwhelming majority of our constituents who oppose 
this war trying to undermine our troops? Of course not. So how could 
anyone suggest that Congress actually acting on the will of the 
American people undermines the troops or emboldens the enemy?

Our troops are undermined by a policy that places them in harm's way 
unnecessarily. And our enemy, our true enemy, al-Qaida and its allies, 
is emboldened by a U.S. strategy that neglects global challenges and 
instead focuses on a single country. It is unfortunate that those who 
wish to defend this strategy would resort to these kinds of charges.

Let's do the job of the Senate and have full, open debate and votes 
on fixing our Iraq policy. Let's not pretend that such a debate would 
harm our national security. Let's not tell ourselves that it is up to 
just the President to fix the horrible situation his failed policies 
have created. It is our responsibility to act, too. Congress made the 
tragic mistake of authorizing this war over 4 years ago. Now Congress 
also has the job of bringing it to a close so we can refocus on the 
terrorists and other global threats that have been neglected way too 
much over the past 4 years.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.