---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `171990be5af323c81c2a4af9572eb8a0`
`Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.

Friends and colleagues, I am glad we are having this debate. It is 
good to debate the most important issue facing our country, the most 
important issue facing the world. I am glad we are talking about Iraq. 
We need to have a debate about Iraq.

I have grave concerns about the conduct of this war. I look back at 
the last 3 or 4 years and I think to myself, boy, I would have done 
that differently, I would have done this differently; they should have 
done that, they should have done this. I think we all can look at 
hindsight and see how things should have been done differently.

Well, here is where we are. The question is, is this the right 
resolution to pass? I for one don't know if this strategy is going to 
work or not. I believe our troops are going to do exactly what we ask 
them to do. I have perfect confidence that the U.S. soldiers, airmen, 
Army and Marines are going to do exactly what we ask them to do and 
they will do their jobs.

Where my doubts lie are with the Iraqi Government. Will the Iraqi 
Government do what we are asking them to do? Will the Iraqi Government 
do what is needed to do to hold up their end of the bargain? I don't 
know.

But what I do know is this: If we pass this resolution, this 
resolution, while our troops are in the middle of implementing this 
mission, while our troops are over there right now implementing this 
strategy, and we pass this resolution which says, you know what, we 
don't think you can succeed; we don't think you can do the job; we 
don't think you can do what you are being asked to do right now, that 
is a slap in the face. It is a killer of morale. This is the wrong 
message to send our troops.

We have to think about the alternatives. We have to think about the 
consequences of failure. We have to think about the message this sends 
our troops. We have to think about the message this sends our enemies.

Madam Speaker, by telling the world, by telling Americans and by 
telling our enemies and our troops we don't think this is going to 
work, we don't think this can succeed, what message does that send?

And for those who say this won't work and I am voting for this 
resolution, it is your obligation to tell us how better you can do 
this, what is your plan, what is your strategy. Because we have to 
think about the consequences of failure. We have to accept and know 
that if we just pull out we will have sectarian genocide. We will have 
a safe haven for terrorists with oil money. We will have a Middle East 
power struggle that will be very, very ugly, where countries that are 
very hostile to us, like Iran and Syria, will have the run of the 
region. We have to look at those consequences.

But more important than anything else, Madam Speaker, is the fact 
that I just cannot look our soldiers in the eyes, and I am traveling to 
this region in a few days, I cannot look them in the eyes and tell them 
that when I was in the comforts of Congress, I sat there high open my 
pedestal and I told the American people and you that the mission you 
are about to engage in, the job you are trying hard to do for us, you 
can't complete it. You are incapable. It won't work. Why bother trying? 
I can't send that message to our troops.

With that, Madam Speaker, I urge a ''no'' vote. This is the right 
debate to have, the wrong resolution to pass.