---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `1724041164e55c2f34e510573887b4af`
`Mr. McCAIN — 17 December 2010`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to thank my friend and 
colleague from Wyoming, Dr. Barrasso. It has been a great privilege for 
me, since he has been a Member of the Senate, to be with him side by 
side in a number of battles.

I am particularly proud of the work Senator Barrasso continues to do 
on the issue of ObamaCare. If anyone wants to really be brought up to 
date, I would commend his Web site, Second Opinion, that Dr. Barrasso 
has, and he continues to be incredibly knowledgeable and effective not 
only here in this body but with the American people.

As a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, Dr. Barrasso has 
taken on this issue as well, and I am pleased to be joined with him.

I would say to my colleague from Massachusetts, the distinguished 
chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, I know there are a number 
of Senators who want to speak. I will try to get those lined up and 
time agreements so that we do not take an inordinate amount of time on 
this issue, and I think we can do that, say, within the next hour or 
so.

But this is an important amendment. This is really one of two major 
issues that concern many Members of this body and many Americans. One 
is the modernization of our nuclear inventory, which I think continues 
to be a subject of discussion, agreements, some disagreements, but is 
important, and my colleague from Arizona, Senator Kyl, of course, has 
been following that issue since the 1980s. I know of no one who has 
been more heavily involved in that side of the issue. The other is, of 
course, this whole issue of defensive weapons--how the provisions of 
the treaty affect the entire ability of the United States, 
unconstrained by this treaty, to move forward where it deems necessary 
to put defensive missile systems to protect the security of this 
country.

I would like to remind you how vital this is. We are living in a 
world where the North Koreans have nuclear weapons and missiles. The 
Iranians have missiles and the ability to deliver nuclear weapons. The 
Pakistanis have nuclear weapons. Other countries throughout the world 
are developing nuclear weapons and the means to deliver them. So our 
concern is not so much what the Russians will do in the form of 
offensive nuclear weaponry--


and I will be glad to discuss Russian media reports about the Russians 
building a new missile and moving ICBMs to the borders of Europe and 
all that--but the main problem here is, can the United States, under 
the treaty, have the ability to put into place defensive missiles which 
will protect the security of the United States of America?

We all know that proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the 
means to deliver them is one of the major challenges of the 21st 
century. So I think it is vital--it is vital--that we make it perfectly 
clear that there is nothing in this treaty that constrains our ability 
to pursue that aspect of America's defense. So it is deeply disturbing 
to so many of us when the preamble of the New START treaty says:




 Recognizing the existence of the interrelationship between 


 strategic offensive arms and strategic defensive arms, that 


 this interrelationship will become more important as 


 strategic nuclear arms are reduced, and that ''current''--


I am going to emphasize the word ''current''--



 strategic defensive arms do not undermine the viability and 


 effectiveness of the strategic offensive arms of the Parties. 


 . . .


The operative word there, my friends, is ''current.''

I have been around long enough to have lived through the history of 
missile defense. It is not that old of an idea. In the middle of the 
last century, the idea that we could develop and deploy strategic 
defensive weapons sounded like science fiction and wishful thinking. 
For the most part, it was.

A few decades later, it was with this view of missile defense's 
fantasy that opponents of the idea mocked President Ronald Reagan, who 
was more committed than any American President before him to the 
prospect of developing viable missile defense systems--what President 
Reagan called his Strategic Defense Initiative, which became known to 
all of us as SDI.

This idea scared the Soviet leaders to death because they realized 
how serious he was about it and because the idea represented a threat 
to the very balance of terror that threatened all of mankind during the 
Cold War. Arms control theorists saw this terror stabilizing--mutual 
assured destruction as stabilizing--and believed that missile defenses 
could therefore be destabilizing.

As a result, the key pillar of Cold War arms control was the 
established interrelationship between strategic offensive weapons and 
strategic defensive weapons. This linkage was codified in the Anti-
Ballistic Missile Treaty, among other treaties and agreements. It 
established that effective missile defenses, if developed, could 
threaten the strategic offensive capabilities of the United States and 
the Soviet Union. For that reason, it limited the development and 
deployment of such defensive weapons.

President Reagan believed that viable missile defense systems--in 
particular, his Strategic Defense Initiative--held out the opportunity 
to eliminate the threat of nuclear holocaust and thereby render nuclear 
weapons irrelevant. President Reagan was one of the leading proponents 
of a world without nuclear weapons, and he believed that it was missile 
defense, not just arms control agreements, that would make that world 
possible.

My friends, if I may take you on a trip down memory lane, the debate 
on that subject was spirited, it was passionate, and it was a 
fundamental debate that took place in this country during the 
1980s. That is why, at the Reykjavik Summit of 1986, when Soviet 
Premier Mikhail Gorbachev cited the ABM Treaty as legal grounds for 
imposing what President Reagan believed was a critical limitation on 
the strategic defense initiative, the President broke off the 
negotiation and walked out--one of the most remarkable acts in recent 
history. You can imagine the initial response of the media and others 
to President Reagan walking out of arms control talks.


With the end of the Cold War and the collapse of the evil empire, the 
United States and Russia were no longer mortal enemies with the means 
to threaten one another's existence. But the proposal of missile 
defense, this was an opportunity to break once and for all the long-
accepted linkage, the interrelationship between strategic offensive and 
defensive weapons.

In a recent op-ed in the Wall Street Journal dated December 7, 2010, 
former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice explains why breaking this 
linkage between offensive nuclear weapons and missile defense was so 
important in the post-Cold War, post-September 11 world. I quote:




 When U.S. President Bush and Russian President Putin signed 


 the Moscow Treaty in 2002, they addressed the nuclear threat 


 by reducing offensive weapons as their predecessors had. But 


 the Moscow Treaty was different. It came in the wake of 


 America's 2001 withdrawal from the Antiballistic Missile 


 Treaty of 1972. And for the first time, the United States and 


 Russia reduced their offensive nuclear weapons with no 


 agreement in place that constrained missile defenses.



 Breaking the link between offensive force reductions and 


 limits on defense marked a key moment in the establishment of 


 a new nuclear agenda no longer focused on the Cold War face-


 off between the Warsaw Pact and NATO. The real threat was 


 that the world's most dangerous weapons could end up in the 


 hands of the world's most dangerous regimes--or of terrorists 


 who would launch attacks more devastating than 9/11. And 


 since those very rogue states also pursued ballistic 


 missiles, defenses would (alongside offensive weapons) be 


 integral to the security of the United States and our allies.


This brief background helps explain a key concern I have with the New 
START treaty as it relates to missile defense: that because of one 
clause agreed to by the parties in the treaty preamble, the Russian 
Government could use the treaty in its present form as a tool of 
political pressure to limit U.S. decisions about our missile defense 
systems.

I have followed this issue of missile defense pretty closely while 
the treaty was being negotiated. As I have said before, I am concerned 
by the series of events that led to the treaty's handling of missile 
defense. First, the Senate was told that this treaty would in no way 
reference the development and deployment of U.S. missile defense 
systems.

Here is what Under Secretary of State Ellen Tauscher said on March 
29, 2010, and I quote:




 The treaty does nothing to constrain missile defense. This 


 treaty is about strategic weapons. There is no limit on what 


 the United States can do with its missile defense systems.


But then, for some reason, after being told this treaty was not about 
missile defense, the Senate was then told there would be a reference to 
missile defense after all, but that it would only be in the preamble of 
the treaty which, of course, is not legally binding. That was worrisome 
enough, but then we saw the treaty and not only was there a reference 
to missile defense in the preamble, but there was also a limitation to 
our missile defense deployments in the body of the treaty itself in 
article V. This may not be a meaningful limitation, but it is a 
limitation nonetheless and a legally binding one at that. This sets a 
very troubling precedent.

What I want to focus on this afternoon is the reference to missile 
defense that appears in the preamble, because that language carries a 
lot of historical significance and strategic weight, and it has been 
the root of mine and other Senators' concerns about how the Russian 
Federation could use this treaty as a de facto veto against U.S. 
missile defense systems. This is what the eighth clause of the preamble 
says, and I quote from the preamble:




 Recognizing the existence of the interrelationship between 


 strategic offensive arms and strategic defensive arms, that 


 this interrelationship will become more important as 


 strategic arms nuclear arms are reduced, and that current 


 strategic defensive arms do not undermine the viability and 


 effectiveness of the strategic offensive arms of the Parties.


There are many problems with this statement, and more that stem from 
it. First, it reestablishes--after what I told my colleagues about what 
happened during the Reagan administration because we worked very hard 
over the past--I mean over the Bush administration, and I say 
reestablishes because we worked very hard over the past decade to 
decouple these two concepts, our offensive nuclear weapons and our 
missile defenses. During the Cold War, the Soviet Union was always 
terrified of the prospects of U.S. missile defense. Ever since 
President Reagan proposed the strategic defense initiative, the 
Russians have sought to limit development and deployment of our 
strategic arms because they knew they could never compete. They sought 
to bind our actions on missile defense through legal obligations in 
treaties,


and when that didn't work, through political commitments or agreements 
that could be cited to confer future obligations, and thus transformed 
into as a political threat. In short, the Russians have always 
understood that U.S. missile defenses would be superior to any 
defensive system the Russian Federation, and the Soviet Union before 
it, could ever deploy, so they have been relentless in trying to block 
it.

It is for this reason and because the Bush administration worked so 
hard to break the linkage between strategic offensive and defensive 
weapons that former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice concluded her 
recent op-ed which I cited earlier with the following counsel to this 
body:




 [T]he Senate must make absolutely clear that in ratifying 


 this treaty, the United States is not reestablishing the Cold 


 War link between offensive forces and missile defenses. New 


 START's preamble is worrying in this regard, as it recognizes 


 the 'interrelationship' of the two.


The reestablishment of the interrelationship is one problem with this 
clause in the preamble, but there are others. A second problem comes in 
the next line which states:



 that this interrelationship will become more important as 


 strategic arms are reduced.


This is only enhancing and strengthening the linkage between our 
offensive nuclear weapons and our missile defenses. Because this treaty 
will modestly reduce our strategic nuclear arms, and if the President 
is serious about his vision of a nuclear-free world--and I believe he 
is serious--then the importance of this agreed-upon interrelationship 
will only deepen in the years ahead. This takes an already problematic 
idea and makes it even more potentially damaging.

The third problem, and the one which potentially has the most direct 
consequences, comes in the next line which states:



 that current strategic defensive arms do not undermine the 


 viability and effectiveness of the strategic offensive arms 


 of the Parties.


This clause lays the groundwork for the political threat the Russian 
Federation wants to hold over the United States with regard to its 
missile defense deployments. By saying that current missile defenses do 
not undermine the treaty's viability and effectiveness, this agreed-
upon language in the preamble establishes that future missile defense 
deployments could undermine the treaty, thereby establishing a 
political argument that the Russian Federation will surely use at a 
future date and try to keep us from building up our missile defenses. 
In short, we have handed the Russian Government the political pressure 
they have sought for so long to bind our future decisions and actions 
on strategic defensive arms.

Imagine a world a few years from now when, God forbid, an Iran or 
North Korea or some other rogue state has deployed longer range 
ballistic missiles and a deployable nuclear capability much earlier 
than we assessed they could. Imagine we are faced with a situation 
where unforeseen events compel us for the sake of our national security 
and that of our allies to qualitatively and quantitatively build up our 
missile defenses to improve our current systems, or develop and deploy 
new systems, to counter a new and far greater threat than we expected. 
And then imagine that the Russian Government tells us that if we 
consider taking these actions that we deem to be in our national 
security interests, then such an action to improve our missile defenses 
would undermine the treaty's effectiveness and viability. This is an 
unacceptable constraint on U.S. decisionmaking.

As if to drive home the large potential problems that stem from this 
clause in the preamble, the Russian Government issued a unilateral 
statement at the time the treaty was signed. I realize this statement 
is not legally binding either, but it certainly adds to the political 
commitment that the Russian Federation believes the United States has 
made on limiting our missile defenses. This is a remarkable statement, 
and it deserves to be read in full, and I quote:




 The treaty between the Russian Federation and the United 


 States of America on Measures for the Further Reduction and 


 Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms signed at Prague on 


 April 8, 2010, may be effective and viable only in conditions 


 where there is no qualitative or quantitative buildup in the 


 missile defense system capabilities of the United States of 


 America. Consequently, the extraordinary events referred to 


 in article XIV of the Treaty also include a buildup in the 


 missile defense system capabilities of the United States of 


 America such that it would give rise to a threat to the 


 strategic nuclear force potential of the Russian Federation.


That is a very clear statement made by the Russian Government about 
the linkage between defensive missile systems and offensive arms. This 
is the Russian interpretation of what our two governments have agreed 
to in the preamble. They explicitly draw the connection between 
strategic offensive and strategic defensive arms. They explicitly state 
that the United States is limited in its development and deployment of 
missile defense systems. They explicitly refer to the language in the 
preamble about the ''effectiveness and viability'' of the treaty in 
order to claim that any buildup or improvement in U.S. missile defense 
systems would undermine the treaty. Then they go one step further. They 
draw a logical connection between what was agreed to in this clause of 
the preamble to article XIV of the treaty, which establishes the rights 
of the parties to withdraw from the treaty and the conditions under 
which they may do so. In short, the Russian Government has effectively 
turned a nonbinding political agreement into the pretext of what it 
believes is a legal obligation under the treaty itself.

You don't have to take my word for it. Listen to what Russian leaders 
themselves have said. Here is Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov 
speaking on March 28, 2010:




 [T]he treaty and all obligations it contains are valid only 


 within the context of the levels which are now present in the 


 sphere of strategic defensive weapons.


Here is Foreign Minister Lavrov again on April 6, 2010:




 Russia will have the right to exit the accord if the U.S.'s 


 buildup of its missile defense strategic potential in numbers 


 and quality begins to considerably affect the efficiency of 


 Russian strategic nuclear forces . . . Linkage to missile 


 defense is clearly spelled out in the accord and is legally 


 binding.


I would remind my colleagues these are the statements of the Russian 
Foreign Minister. And here is everybody's favorite President, Dmitry 
Medvedev, speaking to the Russian Parliament on November 30--November 
30, 2010.




 Either we reach an agreement on missile defense and create 


 a full-fledged cooperation mechanism, or if we can't come to 


 a constructive agreement, we will see another escalation of 


 the arms race. We will have to make a decision to deploy new 


 strike systems.


Finally, here is my favorite, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, speaking 
on ''Larry King Live'' on December 1, 2010:




 I want you and all the American people to know this. At 


 least those spectators who will follow our program here. It's 


 not us who are moving forward our missiles to your territory. 


 It's you who are planning to mount missiles at the vicinity 


 of our borders, of our territory.



 We've been told that you'll do it in order to secure 


 against the, let's say, Iranian threat. But such a threat as 


 of now does not exist. Now if the rudders and counter 


 missiles will be deployed in the year 2012 along our borders, 


 or 2015, they will work against our nuclear potential there, 


 our nuclear arsenal. And certainly, that worries us. And we 


 are obliged to take some actions in response.


Unfortunately, at the time the treaty was signed, after agreeing to 
this problematic clause in the preamble, the U.S. negotiators did not 
use the opportunity to make a unilateral statement of their own to 
decisively and unequivocally discredit the Russian Government's claims. 
Instead, this is the statement the U.S. Government issued in response 
to the statement I read, the signing statement:




 The United States of America takes note of the Statement on 


 Missile Defense by the Russian Federation. The United States 


 missile defense systems are not intended to affect the 


 strategic balance with Russia. The United States missile 


 defense systems would be employed to defend the United States 


 against limited missile launches, and to defend its deployed 


 force, allies and partners against regional threats. The 


 United States intends to continue improving and deploying its 


 missile defense systems in order to defend itself against 


 limited attack and as part of our collaborative approach to 


 strengthening stability in key regions.


My friends, I understand diplomacy, and I understand statements that 
are equivocal. That certainly stands out as one of those.

We could have stated that the development and deployment of U.S. 
missile


defenses are in no way limited by the treaty, its preamble or anything 
the Russian Government says about them. We could have stated that the 
United States does not recognize decisions about its missile defense 
systems as a legitimate and valid reason for the Russian Federation to 
withdraw from the treaty, as is its right under article XIV. We could 
have stated affirmatively that the United States will continue to make 
both qualitative and quantitative improvements to our missile defense 
systems, regardless of whether the Russian Federation threatens to or 
actually chooses to withdraw from the new START treaty. We could have 
said all that and more. Instead, we simply took note of what the 
Russians had to say and then spoke passively about our intentions, 
without addressing the heart of the matter.

What does all this mean? What it means is that the Senate needs to 
fix the problem presented by this clause in the treaty's preamble. One 
way to do that--the easiest way--is to simply strike the eighth clause 
from the preamble text. That is what this proposed amendment would do. 
It will remove any recognition of an interrelationship between 
offensive nuclear weapons and missile defense, and it would undercut 
the logical and political foundation of the Russian unilateral 
statements, as well as the clearly and repeatedly stated Russian 
position that this treaty imposes a legally binding limitation on U.S. 
missile defenses.

I see I am joined on the floor by my friend and cosponsor of this 
amendment, the Senator from Wyoming. Again, I take this opportunity to 
thank him for taking the lead in offering this amendment within the 
Committee on Foreign Relations during the markup of the resolution of 
ratification. I have had the opportunity to travel overseas with the 
Senator from Wyoming, to Iraq and Afghanistan and Pakistan and many 
other places. I appreciate his consistent leadership on matters of 
national security.

I ask unanimous consent that, since it is our amendment, he be 
recognized next.