---
---

# None
## `174f04463fa15916985ed7c69e19d024`
`Mrs. DAVIS of California — 20 May 2008`

---


Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

I rise today in support of House Resolution 961, commending the 
Alaska Army National Guard for its service to the State of Alaska and 
the citizens of the United States.

Let me first take a moment to thank Representative Don Young of 
Alaska for taking the lead and getting this resolution to the floor 
here today.



The 297th Infantry and the scout group of the Alaska Army National 
Guard's deployment of almost 600 Alaskans was the largest deployment of 
the Alaska National Guard since World War II.

The deployment of the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry included 
servicemembers from 80 different communities across Alaska, and 
included 75 soldiers from New York, Mississippi, Illinois, Georgia and 
Puerto Rico.

The term ''citizen soldier'' is a term that rings true for these 
patriots that have stepped forward to serve our great country.

Five hundred eighty-six servicemembers of the 3rd Battalion, 297th 
Infantry were mobilized in July of 2006 and deployed to Camp Shelby, 
Mississippi. The 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry was deployed to Camp 
Virginia, Camp Navstar, and Camp Buehring in northern Kuwait where they 
courageously performed route and perimeter security missions, mounted 
combat patrols and inspections and searches of vehicles going into Iraq 
from Kuwait.

Over the course of 12 months in Kuwait and Iraq, they inspected and 
searched over 30,000 semi-trucks and designed all force protection 
plans in northern Kuwait.

We would like to thank the families of these servicemembers who have 
provided unwavering support while waiting for their loved ones to 
return. It is through the support of our families that our 
servicemembers are able to serve our great Nation, especially during 
times of war.

In addition, when members of the National Guard deploy, their 
families are not the only ones affected. Since our servicemembers live 
and work in their communities, the communities, too, are affected by 
these deployments, especially their employers. We would like to 
recognize and thank those employers who have displayed patriotism over 
profit by keeping positions saved for the returning soldiers and 
supporting the soldier's families during this time. Our soldiers and 
their families could not have made it through these difficult times 
without that support.

The courageousness and dedication to duty of the members of the 3rd 
Battalion, 297th Infantry is evident in the awards and decorations 
received during their deployment, which included three Bronze Stars, 12 
Meritorious Service Medals, 142 Army commendations, and more than 200 
Army Achievement Medals for their outstanding service.

As a Nation, we thank you for your service to the Commonwealth of 
Alaska and the citizens of the United States upon completion of this 
deployment.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.