# None
## `1750ec0a72552e9084d4eabf8fc448bc`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, there is nothing wrong with demanding our 
troops come home, including forcing that debate by using the privileges 
of the war powers resolution. There is nothing unpatriotic in demanding 
that our troops and their families, their neighbors and their 
communities be told when they are coming home. And Mr. Speaker, there 
is every reason to debate how we go after al Qaeda and how we create a 
flexible, mobile, global strategy able to track, find, counter, and 
strike al Qaeda cells wherever they might be. And there is no reason to 
run away from a debate over whether 100,000 boots on the ground in 
Afghanistan is the best strategy to eliminating al Qaeda once and for 
all.

I do not doubt that our brave military men and women can and will 
achieve military successes in battle after battle after battle. But are 
Afghanistan's tribal disputes going to be solved on the battlefield or 
at the political negotiating table? And if it is going to take a 
political solution to resolve centuries of grievances, then who is 
willing to stand at the front of this Chamber and declare how many 
American lives that is worth?

Mr. Speaker, President Obama has said he will begin to bring our 
troops home next July, but he didn't say when the job will be complete. 
Representative Kucinich says let's bring them home by New Year's Eve, 
this year. We must continue to debate this issue, debate it today, 
debate it on the supplemental, debate it on defense bills.

Let's debate it when we are begging for resources so our kids can go 
to quality schools, when we are trying to find the money so every 
American has a decent job and affordable health care, so we can 
maintain our roads and our bridges and our waterways, so we can guard 
our ports and our borders, so we can keep our cops on the beat and our 
seniors safe in their homes. Let's debate the war in Afghanistan, how 
we will pay for it, how it will end, when it will end, and when our 
sons and daughters, husbands and wives, friends and neighbors will be 
able to come home.


Let us continue to ask the hard questions and demand straight answers 
until we get it right and all our troops are safely home.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ''yes'' vote on the rule and on the previous 
question.

I yield back the balance of my time, and I move the previous question 
on the resolution.

The previous question was ordered.