---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `1754f7b5adbd93c7fb2e95abbeb59a60`
`Mr. BENNET — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today 
to honor the life and heroic service of LCpl Brandon W. Pearson. Lance 
Corporal Pearson, who was assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 5th Marine 
Regiment, Regimental Combat Team-2, I Marine Expeditionary Force 
Forward, 1st Marine Division, out of Camp Pendleton, CA, died on 
November 4, 2010, from wounds he received while supporting combat 
operations in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. He was 21 years old.

A native of Colorado, Lance Corporal Pearson graduated from Ralston 
Valley High School in Arvada. He was serving his second tour of duty. 
Although this was his first tour in Afghanistan, his battalion was 
assigned to one of the most dangerous districts in Helmand Province.

During his 3 years of service, Lance Corporal Pearson distinguished 
himself through his courage, dedication to duty, and willingness to 
take on any job. He was given numerous awards and medals, including the 
Marine Corps Good Conduct Medal, the Afghanistan Campaign Medal, the 
Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, and the National Defense Service 
Medal.

Lance Corporal Pearson worked on the front lines of battle, serving 
in the most dangerous areas of Afghanistan. He is remembered by those 
who knew him as a consummate professional with an unending commitment 
to excellence. Friends and loved ones remember Lance Corporal Pearson's 
dedication to friends and family. He was always there when someone was 
in a tight spot. His decision to serve influenced a close friend to 
join the Marines as well. All remember his unwavering bravery.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' Lance 
Corporal Pearson's service was in keeping with this sentiment by 
selflessly putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He 
lived with a sense of the highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield was 
uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Lance Corporal Pearson will forever be remembered as one of 
our country's bravest.

To Lance Corporal Pearson's entire family--I cannot imagine the 
sorrow you must be feeling. I hope that, in time, the pain of your loss 
will be eased by your pride in Brandon's service and by your knowledge 
that his country will never forget him. We are humbled by his service 
and his sacrifice.
