---
---

# INTERNATIONAL DAY OF PEACE
## `175783912bb525891528aafbf6d3d5ee`
`Mr. HARKIN — 22 September 2008`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I want to take some time to remind our 
colleagues, and indeed all Americans, that yesterday, September 21, 
2008, was the International Day of Peace. The United Nations and its 
member states unanimously established an International Day of Peace in 
1981. However it was not until 2001 that September 21 was agreed to as 
the permanent date. According to the U.N. resolution, the International 
Day of Peace should be devoted to commemorating and strengthening the 
ideals of peace both within and among all nations and peoples. I 
applaud Governor Chet Culver for his proclamation affirming Iowa's 
observance of International Peace Day. And, at this time, I would like 
to do my own part to mark this day, especially on the behalf of the 
many Iowans who are committed to the ideals of peace.

Unfortunately, this may be International Peace Day, but sadly our 
leaders are faced with numerous challenges around the world that 
undermine the ideal of peace. The United States is in the sixth year of 
a devastating war in Iraq, a war of choice that was launched 
preemptively by the current U.S. administration. The Middle East is in 
turmoil. We have an ongoing genocide in Darfur. A dictator still clings 
to power in Zimbabwe by indefinitely postponing, without explanation, 
scheduled meetings to discuss the implementation of a power-sharing 
agreement, despite the fanfare surrounding its signing. Russia 
continues its illegal presence in Georgia. HIV/AIDS and malaria 
continue to ravage the continent of Africa. Millions of children are 
forced to work in abusive conditions--in many cases, as outright 
slaves--and are denied an education. Drought and rising food prices are 
causing even more hunger and famine in some of the world's poorest 
places.

But a true commitment to peace is not measured by a proclamation or 
by high-minded speeches on 1 day of the year. It takes more than good 
intentions and high ideals. What it takes is the hard work of 
diplomacy, people-to-people exchanges, and active, assertive peace 
movements in each country.

I agree whole-heartedly with recent remarks made by Secretary of 
Defense Robert Gates. He said our institutions of diplomacy and 
development have


been chronically undermanned and underfunded relative to our military 
expenditure. I came across a sobering statistic along these lines just 
the other day. In this country we have more musicians in military bands 
than we do members of the Foreign Service.

What are our priorities? We spend nearly $1 billion a year on 
military academies to train our best and brightest young people to make 
war. But we spend almost nothing to train our cadre of diplomats to use 
diplomacy to strengthen peace around the world.

Mr. President, I have long been committed to finding peaceful 
solutions to conflicts. That is why I was present at the creation of 
the U.S. Institute of Peace. Throughout our long history, America has 
been proud of its strong, well-led military. And this outstanding 
military leadership is no accident. It is possible because we maintain 
prestigious, world-class military academies that train some of the best 
and brightest minds in America in the art and science of war.

But Americans also have a long history as a peace-loving people. Time 
and again, we have brokered peace agreements between warring nations, 
and we have intervened to head off potential conflicts. The Institute 
of Peace draws on this proud tradition and today makes a vital 
intellectual investment in the art and science of peacemaking by 
engaging with the Iraqi people to build peace from the community level.

Addressing worldwide hunger is crucial for ensuring the health of 
people in developing countries and maintaining peace throughout the 
world. The U.S. is a major contributor to international food aid by 
providing, on average for the last 6 years, roughly 55 percent of 
annual total food aid provided to low-income and developing countries. 
I believe we can still do more. That is why I worked hard to strengthen 
food aid programs in the 2002 and 2008 farm bills and continue to 
support expansion of our food aid efforts.

During my tenure in the Senate, I have consistently championed food 
aid programs such as Public Law 480, title II, also known as the Food 
for Peace Program. Title II is extremely important in providing U.S. 
food developing countries meet humanitarian needs arising from 
emergencies or for use in development projects.

I am also a strong advocate and was a lead sponsor of the McGovern-
Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program 
established in the 2002 farm bill, which was reauthorized in the 2008 
farm bill. The McGovern-Dole program encourages education and provides 
food to improve nutrition in developing countries for preschoolers and 
school-aged children and their families through the use of both in-
school programs and take-home rations. I believe that it is essential 
to fully fund food aid programs which help to promote a safe and 
healthy diet for people in developing countries, and will ultimately 
make the world a safer place to live.

America is strongest when we lead not by force of arms but by our 
democratic and moral example. It takes a sustained effort to understand 
our adversaries and, if at all possible, to resolve our differences 
peacefully. The International Day of Peace allows people to think about 
redoubling our diplomatic efforts and reducing violence.

I look forward to a time, hopefully not too far in the future, that 
will truly be a day of peace. But let us remember that peace is not 
merely the cessation or absence of hostilities. The ideals of peace 
require us to practice understanding, tolerance, and honorable 
compromise. The ideals of peace require us to look upon our fellow 
human beings and to see them as our brothers and sisters. The ideals of 
peace require us to reject unprovoked aggression and violence as 
acceptable instruments of national policy.

So, Mr. President, on this day after the International Day of Peace, 
I salute the many good people in Iowa, across America, and around the 
world who devote themselves 365 days a year to the cause of peace and 
nonviolence. The world is a better place because of their activism and 
engagement.
