---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE OF UNITED STATES ARMY CORPORAL MICHAEL MATTHEW ROJAS
## `17573680f7aa05c41b686aeae9a4eb17`
`Mr. COSTA — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor and pay tribute to 
the life of CPL Michael Matthew Rojas, who lost his life defending the 
freedom of our Nation in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

A native of Fresno, California, Michael was born on March 1, 1986. As 
early as his freshman year in high school, he made joining the military 
a goal in his life. He played 4 years of football at Clovis East and 
helped his team win the Central Section Division 1 Championship, a 
highlight of his high school career. Shortly upon his high school 
graduation in 2004, Michael attained his goal by enlisting in the Army. 
When asked why he decided to join knowing that our Nation was at war, 
he would reply, ''Because it's the men and women before me that made it 
possible to live in freedom.''

With that passion and drive Michael completed basic training at Fort 
Sill, OK as a cannon crewmember. In November of 2004, he reported to 
Fort Lewis where he was assigned to the 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry 
Division. Unfortunately, Michael's tour in Iraq ended when an 
improvised device detonated near his military vehicle during combat 
operations on April 18, 2007.

Michael is survived by his mother, Debbie Apodaca; his father, David 
Esquivil; his wife, Katrina; five sisters, Michelle, Melissa, Marissa, 
Samantha, Mariah; and one brother, David. Also surviving are his 
grandparents, William Rojas, Victoria Valenzuela, and Art and Gloria 
Esquivil; and his nieces, nephews, aunts, uncles, cousins and numerous 
friends.

It is my belief that Michael's life symbolizes the ultimate sacrifice 
one can make for his country. His valor, strength, courage and pride in 
our nation will forever live in the thoughts and hearts of his family 
and Americans across the nation. CPL Michael Matthew Rojas' dedication 
to the principles of freedom and democracy will serve as an example to 
all of us, for generations to come.
