# SERGEANT DENNIS J. FLANAGAN LECANTO POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `1763c9f48d33b0ea97579bc634496f1f`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 23 April 2007`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today in 
support of my bill, H.R. 1402, the Sergeant Dennis J. Flanagan Lecanto 
Post Office Building.

H.R. 1402 will rename the South Lecanto Highway post office in 
Lecanto, FL, after Army Sergeant Flanagan, who was killed by terrorist 
insurgents in 2006 while on patrol in Iraq.

A 2001 graduate of Lecanto High School, Sergeant Flanagan was an 
active member of the Junior ROTC, achieving the rank of First 
Lieutenant his junior year.

Within a week following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, 
he enlisted in the Army and began his first tour of duty in Iraq in 
2003. Sergeant Flanagan then re-enlisted for a second tour in Iraq in 
September of 2005.

Tragically, he was killed January 20, 2006, along with 3 other U.S. 
soldiers when an lED hit a Humvee in which he was traveling. Only the 
Humvee driver survived the incident.

Sgt. Flanagan was a soldier who firmly believed in our mission in 
Iraq and in advancing the cause of freedom. As a young boy, Sgt. 
Flanagan knew that he wanted to be a soldier


in the U.S. Armed Forces. A soldier who felt we must defend America and 
fight for freedom, Sgt. Flanagan received glowing recommendations from 
his superior officers and fellow soldiers. One of the principle reasons 
that he re-enlisted was to act as a mentor to the newly enlisted 
soldiers and to help train Iraqi army recruits.

Speaking of his future as a soldier and a patriot, Sgt. Flanagan once 
wrote a poem that included the words, ''And now, my son, I pray to 
thee. Never ever forget me; that I died a soldier's death, to keep you 
free with my last breath.''

In times when children and families need role models to look up to 
and emulate, Sergeant Flanagan was a true American hero. Our community 
feels his loss immensely.

I hope that in renaming this post office, we will memorialize 
Sergeant Flanagan's courage and never forget his sacrifice for this 
great Nation.