---
---

# ADDRESSING THE GLOBAL THREAT OF AL-QAEDA
## `1764564d885c2f2ddadcade2ad17c303`
`Ms. McCOLLUM — 7 December 2010`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to state plainly and 
clearly my belief that al-Qaeda and its affiliates continue to pose a 
serious threat to the United States.

During a candidate forum on October 21, 2010, I was asked a question 
regarding U.S. policy in Afghanistan and Iraq. During my response, I 
stated that the United States went to war in Afghanistan--an action 
that I supported--to remove the Taliban from power and eliminate al-
Qaeda. I also noted that top U.S. intelligence officials have stated 
publicly that al-Qaeda no longer poses a threat to the United States 
from within Afghanistan.

For example, on June 27, 2010, CIA Director Leon Panetta stated that 
fewer than 50 to 100 al-Qaeda operatives remain in Afghanistan, saying 
''there's no question that the main location of Al Qaeda is in the 
tribal areas of Pakistan.'' According to then-National Security Advisor 
Gen. James L. Jones on October 4, 2009, al-Qaeda has no bases inside 
Afghanistan and ''no ability to launch attacks on either us or our 
allies.'' Unfortunately, my political opponents rejected these official 
assessments from America's top national security experts and chose to 
distort my position by taking my comments out of context. Playing 
politics with American national security is a reckless distraction.

The threat from al-Qaeda now emanates from within countries such as 
Pakistan and Yemen, and even from would-be terrorists within the U.S. 
who are inspired to violence by al-Qaeda. However, due to the courage 
and effectiveness of America's military men and women and America's 
NATO partners, al-Qaeda's ability to attack U.S. citizens from inside 
Afghanistan has been greatly diminished, if not eliminated. For this 
reason, I support an end to full-scale combat operations and a shift to 
a long-term counterterrorism mission that will prevent al-Qaeda from 
re-establishing safe havens from which to attack the United States.

Madam Speaker, there is no doubt that al-Qaeda continues to pose a 
significant threat to the United States and our allies. Its operatives 
are as determined as ever to promote their brand of extremism through 
fear, violence, and hate. The United States must remain vigilant and 
resolute in the face of this serious threat.
