---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE OF CORPORAL SHAWN HENSEL, US ARMY, OF LOGANSPORT,  INDIANA
## `1765d9bbda854348fe5cdaf7ed7b205d`
`Mr. DONNELLY — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor and remember the 
life of U.S. Army Corporal Shawn Hensel, of Logansport, Indiana, who 
died on August 14, 2007 from wounds sustained during an enemy attack in 
Baghdad, Iraq. He was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 23rd Infantry 
Regiment, 4th Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division (Stryker Brigade Combat 
Team), Fort Lewis, Washington. Just twenty years old, Shawn lived a 
life worthy of admiration and respect.

Shortly after learning about his death, Shawn's father David spoke of 
the love for Shawn among his family, ''Shawn had two sisters that 
really loved him.'' Observing the crowd of people at a memorial service 
for Shawn one week later, Shawn's sister Autumn noted ''It's nice to 
know that he was loved this much.'' Shawn was indeed deeply loved by 
his family and by his community.

Married just eight months ago, Shawn was also loved by his wife, 
Laci. Laci noted of Shawn, ''The love he had for his country was 
unbelievable.'' This observation was reinforced by Jeff Strite, the 
preacher at the Church of Christ, ''He was privileged to wear his 
uniform, and he wore it wherever he could.'' This love of country, this 
pride in service, played on another quality of Shawn's. His friend 
Chuck Porter remarked ''Shawn just had a way of getting into your 
heart.'' Shawn's life and service now leaves him in all our hearts.

The button Shawn's mother Beth recently has been wearing reads ''Our 
Hero, 1987-2007.'' Our hero. This is most certainly what Shawn is now. 
We are used to speaking of twenty-year-olds, of those recently married, 
of having lives full of promise and possibility. But Shawn also had a 
great love of country. And this young man is honored for his sacrifice, 
for putting that promise and possibility on the line in service to his 
country.

''I talk to Shawn all the time and ask him to give me strength,'' 
Beth said recently. And Shawn would want us all to be strong. Today I 
honor Corporal Shawn Hensel's strength, patriotism, and sacrifice. As I 
register a Nation's gratitude, it is my regretful duty to also note our 
grief. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and his friends. We 
join with his wife Laci, his father David, and his mother Beth to mourn 
his loss. Shawn's spirit will always be with us. May God Bless Shawn 
and all those he loved.
