---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `1767243472d5acd244567cb7f29e5f51`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. Chairman, I thought the Republican


budget deficits that we have seen since they took power in 2001 were 
pretty big, but the rhetoric deficit between what they say and economic 
reality is even bigger. There are zero tax increases or cuts in any of 
these budgets. The tax situation at the end of the year, the end of 
this fiscal year, will be the same.

Now, the gentleman from Texas is worried about people who will be 
facing tax increases later on. By the way, he says tax increases that 
are in current law, that's current law that the Republicans passed.

I didn't vote for the current law, so they don't like what they put 
into the law. But the people I talk with, working people in my 
district, no, they are not worried about estate taxes on $20 million. 
They're not worried about incomes over $200,000.

The gentleman did make an accurate point. He said, What about the 
person whose paycheck will be exactly the same next year? Well, before 
the Republicans took over, her paycheck wasn't exactly the same. They 
used to go up. Paychecks used to increase. Only with the Republicans in 
power have we seen this freeze on real pay, in fact, a decrease in real 
pay.

Let me tell you why I am for the Progressive budget, because I do 
believe we ought to save the taxpayers money. I am prepared to say that 
when the Republicans were in power, we won the Cold War. They 
apparently don't recognize that, because they've got a budget that's 
still fighting it. In addition to the enormous waste of lives and 
American prestige and everything else that is involved in the Iraq war 
and the enormous waste of money there, we are still funding weapons in 
this budget. Now, many of these weapons are great weapons, but they 
have one defect: they have no enemy. A weapon without an enemy is a 
pretty silly thing to have.

So I like the Progressive budget because, among other things, it 
brings under control this enormous increase in Pentagon spending, and 
apparently according to my right-wing Republican colleagues, spending 
on weapons that we don't need is good spending. Spending to pay for 
health care for children is bad spending. I think they get it exactly 
opposite and the Progressive budget is the way to fix that.