---
---

# None
## `176b25b1b551518144da594c591b3bc9`
`Mr. LARSON of Connecticut — 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman will yield 
for a moment, I thank you again, because I do want to say that Frank 
Rich wrote an important column in The New York Times yesterday, and it 
is one that I will submit for the record. I think it also lays it out 
pretty clearly.

I would like to quote here. First he is quoting retired General 
William Odom. ''For the Bush White House, the real definition of 
victory has become 'anything they can get away with without taking 
blame for defeat,' said the retired Army General William Odom, a 
national security official in the Reagan and Carter administrations,'' 
when Frank Rich spoke to him most recently. ''The plan is to run out 
the Washington clock between now and January 20, 2009, no matter the 
cost.''

''A precipitous withdrawal is also a chimera, since American 
manpower, material and bases, not to mention our new Vatican-sized 
embassy, can't be drawn down overnight.''

And here is the important thing that I think Mr. Rich says. ''The 
only real choice, everyone knows, is an orderly plan for withdrawal 
that will best serve American interests. The real debate must be over 
what that plan is. That debate can't happen as long as the White House 
gets away with falsifying reality, sliming its opponents and sowing 
hyped fears of Armageddon. The threat that terrorists in a civil war-
torn Iraq will follow us home if we leave is as bogus as Saddam's 
mushroom clouds. The al Qaeda that actually attacked us on 9/11 still 
remains under the tacit protection of our ally, Pakistan.

''As General Odom says, 'the endgame will start when a senior senator 
from the President's party says no,' much like William Fulbright did. 
That's why in Washington this fall,'' he goes on to say, ''eyes will 
turn once again to John Warner, the senior Republican with the clout to 
give political cover to other members of his party who want to leave 
Iraq before they are forced to evacuate Congress. In September, it will 
nearly be a year since Mr. Warner said that Iraq was 'drifting 
sideways' and that action would have to be taken if this level of 
violence is not under control and this government is able to function.

''Mr. Warner has also signaled his regret that he was not more 
outspoken during Vietnam. 'We kept surging in those years,' he told The 
Washington Post in January, as the Iraq surge began. 'It didn't work.' 
Surely,'' Rich goes on to say, ''he must recognize that his moment for 
speaking out about this war is overdue. Without him, the Democrats 
don't have the votes,'' and I repeat, without Republicans, ''the 
Democrats don't have the votes to force the President's hand. With him, 
it's a slam-dunk. The best way to honor the sixth anniversary of 9/
11,'' as we take up this week the 9/11 Commission response, ''is to at 
last disarm a President who continues to squander countless lives in 
the names of those voiceless American dead.''

Mr. Speaker, I include the entire Frank Rich article for the Record.









[From the New York Times, June 24, 2007]










 They'll Break the Bad News on 9/11















(By Frank Rich)




 By this late date we should know the fix is in when the 


 White House's top factotums fan out on the Sunday morning 


 talk shows singing the same lyrics, often verbatim, from the 


 same hymnal of spin. The pattern was set way back on Sept. 8, 


 2002, when in simultaneous appearances three cabinet members 


 and the vice president warned darkly of Saddam's aluminum 


 tubes. ''We don't want the smoking gun to be a mushroom 


 cloud,'' said Condi Rice, in a scripted line. The hard sell 


 of the war in Iraq--the hyping of a (fictional) nuclear 


 threat to America--had officially begun.



 America wasn't paying close enough attention then. We can't 


 afford to repeat that blunder now. Last weekend the latest 


 custodians of the fiasco, our new commander in Iraq, Gen. 


 David Petraeus, and our new ambassador to Baghdad, Ryan 


 Crocker, took to the Sunday shows with two messages we'd be 


 wise to heed.



 The first was a confirmation of recent White House hints 


 that the long-promised September pivot point for judging the 


 success of the ''surge'' was inoperative. That deadline had 


 been asserted as recently as April 24 by President Bush, who 


 told Charlie Rose that September was when we'd have ''a 


 pretty good feel'' whether his policy ''made sense.'' On 


 Sunday General Petraeus and Mr. Crocker each downgraded 


 September to merely a ''snapshot'' of progress in Iraq. 


 ''Snapshot,'' of course, means ''Never mind!''



 The second message was more encoded and more ominous. Again 


 using similar language, the two men said that in September 


 they would explain what Mr. Crocker called ''the 


 consequences'' and General Petraeus ''the implications'' of 


 any alternative ''courses of action'' to their own course in 


 Iraq. What this means in English is that when the September 


 ''snapshot'' of the surge shows little change in the overall 


 picture, the White House will say that ''the consequences'' 


 of winding down the war would be even more disastrous: 


 surrender, defeat, apocalypse now. So we must stay the surge. 


 Like the war's rollout in 2002, the new propaganda offensive 


 to extend and escalate the war will be exquisitely timed to 


 both the anniversary of 9/11 and a highstakes Congressional 


 vote (the Pentagon appropriations bill).



 General Petraeus and Mr. Crocker wouldn't be sounding like 


 the Bobbsey Twins and laying out this coordinated rhetorical 


 groundwork were they not already anticipating the surge's 


 failure. Both spoke on Sunday of how (in General Petraeus's 


 variation on the theme) they had to ''show that the Baghdad 


 clock can indeed move a bit faster, so that you can put a bit 


 of time back on the Washington clock.'' The very premise is 


 nonsense. Yes, there is a Washington clock, tied to 


 Republicans' desire to avoid another Democratic surge on 


 Election Day 2008. But there is no Baghdad clock. It was 


 blown up long ago and is being no more successfully 


 reconstructed than anything else in Iraq.



 When Mr. Bush announced his ''new way forward'' in January, 


 he offered a bouquet of promises, all unfulfilled today. 


 ''Let the Iraqis lead'' was the policy's first bullet point, 


 but in the initial assault on insurgents now playing out so 


 lethally in Diyala Province, Iraqi forces were kept out of 


 the fighting altogether. They were added on Thursday: 500 


 Iraqis, following 2,500 Americans. The notion that these 


 Shiite troops might ''hold'' this Sunni area once the 


 Americans leave is an opium dream. We're already back 


 fighting in Maysan, a province whose security was 


 officially turned over to Iraqi authorities in April.



 In his January prime-time speech announcing the surge, Mr. 


 Bush also said that ''America will hold the Iraqi government 


 to the benchmarks it has announced.'' More fiction. Prime 


 Minister Nuri al-Maliki's own political adviser, Sadiq al-


 Rikabi, says it would take ''a miracle'' to pass the 


 legislation America wants. Asked on Monday whether the Iraqi 


 Parliament would stay in Baghdad this summer rather than 


 hightail it to vacation, Tony Snow was stumped.



 Like Mr. Crocker and General Petraeus, Mr. Snow is on 


 script for trivializing September as judgment day for the 


 surge, saying that by then we'll only ''have a little bit of 


 metric'' to measure success. This administration has a 


 peculiar metric system. On Thursday, Peter Pace, the 


 departing chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, called the 


 spike in American troop deaths last week the ''wrong metric'' 


 for assessing the surge's progress. No doubt other metrics in 


 official reports this month are worthless too, as far as the 


 non-reality-based White House is concerned. The civilian 


 casualty rate is at an all-time high; the April-May American 


 death toll is a new two-month record; overall violence in 


 Iraq is up; only 146 out of 457 Baghdad neighborhoods are 


 secure; the number of internally displaced Iraqis has 


 quadrupled since January.



 Last week Iraq rose to No. 2 in Foreign Policy magazine's 


 Failed State Index, barely nosing out Sudan. It might have 


 made No. 1 if the Iraqi health ministry had not stopped 


 providing a count of civilian casualties. Or if the Pentagon 


 were not withholding statistics on the increase of attacks on 


 the Green Zone. Apparently the White House is working 


 overtime to ensure that the September ''snapshot'' of Iraq 


 will be an underexposed blur. David Carr of The Times 


 discovered that the severe Pentagon blackout on images of 


 casualties now extends to memorials for the fallen in Iraq, 


 even when a unit invites press coverage.



 Americans and Iraqis know the truth anyway. The question 


 now is: What will be the new new way forward? For the 


 administration, the way forward will include, as always, 


 attacks on its critics' patriotism. We got a particularly 


 absurd taste of that this month when Harry Reid was slammed 


 for calling General Pace incompetent and accusing General 


 Petraeus of exaggerating progress on the ground.



 General Pace's record speaks for itself; the administration 


 declined to go to the mat in the Senate for his 


 reappointment. As for General Petraeus, who recently spoke of 


 ''astonishing signs of normalcy'' in Baghdad, he is nothing 


 if not consistent. He first hyped ''optimism'' and 


 ''momentum'' in Iraq in an op-ed article in September 2004.





 Come September 2007, Mr. Bush will offer his usual false 


 choices. We must either stay his disastrous course in eternal 


 pursuit of ''victory'' or retreat to the apocalypse of 


 ''precipitous withdrawal.'' But by the latest of the 


 president's ever-shifting definitions of victory, we've 


 already lost. ''Victory will come,'' he says, when Iraq ''is 


 stable enough to be able to be an ally in the war on terror 


 and to govern itself and defend itself.'' The surge, which he 


 advertised as providing ''breathing space'' for the Iraqi 


 ''unity'' government to get its act together, is tipping that 


 government into collapse. As Vali Nasr, author of ''The Shia 


 Revival,'' has said, the new American strategy of arming 


 Sunni tribes is tantamount to saying the Iraqi government is 


 irrelevant.



 For the Bush White House, the real definition of victory 


 has become ''anything they can get away with without taking 


 blame for defeat,'' said the retired Army Gen. William Odom, 


 a national security official in the Reagan and Carter 


 administrations, when I spoke with him recently. The plan is 


 to run out the Washington clock between now and Jan. 20, 


 2009, no matter the cost.



 Precipitous withdrawal is also a chimera, since American 


 manpower, materiel and bases, not to mention our new Vatican 


 City-sized embassy, can't be drawn down overnight. The only 


 real choice, as everyone knows, is an orderly plan for 


 withdrawal that will best serve American interests. The 


 real debate must be over what that plan is. That debate 


 can't happen as long as the White House gets away with 


 falsifying reality, sliming its opponents and sowing hyped 


 fears of Armageddon. The threat that terrorists in civil-


 war-torn Iraq will follow us home if we leave is as bogus 


 as Saddam's mushroom clouds. The Qaeda that actually 


 attacked us on 9/11 still remains under the tacit 


 protection of our ally, Pakistan.



 As General Odom says, the endgame will start ''when a 


 senior senator from the president's party says no,'' much as 


 William Fulbright did to L.B.J. during Vietnam. That's why in 


 Washington this fall, eyes will turn once again to John 


 Warner, the senior Republican with the clout to give 


 political cover to other members of his party who want to 


 leave Iraq before they're forced to evacuate Congress. In 


 September, it will be nearly a year since Mr. Warner said 


 that Iraq was ''drifting sideways'' and that action would 


 have to be taken ''if this level of violence is not under 


 control and this government able to function.''



 Mr. Warner has also signaled his regret that he was not 


 more outspoken during Vietnam. ''We kept surging in those 


 years,'' he told The Washington Post in January, as the Iraq 


 surge began. ''It didn't work.'' Surely he must recognize 


 that his moment for speaking out about this war is overdue. 


 Without him, the Democrats don't have the votes to force the 


 president's hand. With him, it's a slam dunk. The best way to 


 honor the sixth anniversary of 9/11 will be to at last disarm 


 a president who continues to squander countless lives in the 


 names of those voiceless American dead.
