# REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE
## `176d70dfa77d9b02d42bc520684fcd92`
`Mr. WALBERG â€” 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, it is a privilege to stand with men here who have served 
with distinction and consistency on this issue and the most important 
issue, as I understand it, as a new Member of Congress, taking that 
oath of office for the first time on January 4 to uphold the 
Constitution of the United States, which gives us the primary 
responsibility, number one responsibility, for security and defense of 
this great Nation not only for its people but for the impact that this 
Nation has given and continues to give worldwide.

We are the greatest bastion of hope for liberty, for individualism, 
for opportunity. And for us to be now in an arena that, frankly, with 
my colleagues I can't say that I have been there yet. I look forward to 
being over in the arena of this war and having the opportunity to sit 
with our heroes, our warriors over there who understand the process. I 
look forward to that experience to be able to hear directly from them 
in the field. But until that time, I have to resort to memories, 
including a memory my wife and I will never forget in sitting on the 
parade grounds in Fort Knox, Kentucky, watching my son graduate with 
the rest of the young recruits, troops that volunteered, all volunteers 
to serve their country, all of whom understood that in signing up for 
this austere and wonderful choice of patriotism, yet also put their 
lives on the line potentially.

And I will never forget watching my son, who had changed before my 
eyes during the course of the past number of weeks at Fort Knox, and 
had become a man with an understanding, as he was preparing to be a 
combat medic. That was unique. And meeting with his fellow soldiers and 
understanding that they had a purpose in mind, what an encouraging 
thing that was.


And now to look back on that and realize that not only have numerous 
of his fellow comrades gone to the arena, some who have come home with 
the impact of that time on their life never to leave them. Others have 
not come home alive and have given the supreme sacrifice. We would do 
well to honor them not only by our words but by our actions.

I have stood at Walter Reed Hospital on numerous occasions now, with 
my wife alongside several times, and I have met these troops, these 
fallen warrior heroes. I have prayed at their bedside. I have thanked 
them. I have had the opportunity to hear from them: Mr. Congressman, 
don't thank us. It was a privilege to serve. Don't thank me, though I 
appreciate your being here, but I want you to go back and tell your 
colleagues that we would appreciate their unquestioning support, that 
they would stand with us, that they would encourage us, that they would 
support us with the necessary resources, both armaments and financial 
resources, to complete this passion that we have, to stand for the 
defense not only of Iraq and its citizens who long to be free, but 
stand for our fellow citizens at home so we don't have to fight this 
war on our home turf as well. They understand this.

I don't understand why many of my colleagues, whom I respect highly, 
yet don't seem to understand, on the other side of the aisle, that we 
are fighting so it doesn't come home here as well.

I have also had, and I call it a distinct honor, though difficult as 
well, to speak to families who are now dealing with the impact of the 
war. I think of Travis Webb from Adrian, Michigan, who is still at 
Walter Reed, who came home missing two legs but not missing his heart, 
and still with a passion for his comrades back in the field and 
expressing the desire that we stand firm with them, thanking him and 
hearing him say ''I wish I could go back.''

Just a week ago, I called the mother of Daniel Courneya of 
Vermontville, Michigan, and expressed my sincere sympathy to her. Her 
son has not come home alive. He along with three other of his fellow 
troops were killed with an IED explosion, and three of his troops are 
still missing. We have read about them in the media. And we pray for 
their safe return. We know also that they have given their service for 
a cause. And I will be at the funeral of Daniel Courneya this coming 
Friday, in fact 2 days from now, and will stand proudly and yet humbly, 
recognizing the sacrifice that they have given for a cause greater than 
all of us even on this floor tonight.

Mr. Speaker, 108 days ago, on February 5, President Bush requested 
from Congress funding for our troops in Iraq. And even though current 
funding for our troops is set to expire at the end of May, and I say 
this as a new Member and I guess I say it as a Member that doubts until 
I actually see the bill in front of me to vote on, this funding is set 
to expire at the end of May. The new leadership in the House of 
Representatives has yet to put in front of me a bill that even comes 
close to properly financing the troops. And I say that saying until 
proven otherwise, it hasn't been in front of me to vote yet, and that 
is a shame.

Our American commanders need an opportunity to implement the new 
strategy. We are handcuffing our generals on the front line. That is 
not the


way it ought to be. New House leadership first introduced a bill in 
March that not only micromanaged the troops but also contained millions 
of dollars of unrelated pork-barrel projects to buy a few votes for bad 
legislation. That is not what I understood that I signed up for in 
supporting our troops and protecting and defending this great country.



The bill was a salad bar of egregious earmarks: $25 million for 
payments to spinach producers; $120 million to shrimp industries, $74 
million for peanut storage; $5 million for shellfish, oyster and clam 
producers are just a few examples. And again, as a new Member of 
Congress, I couldn't believe that, that we were dealing with that type 
of funding with a war going on.

This bill was rightfully vetoed. In response, House leadership 
scrambled, and now we see supposedly that there is a bill before us.

I heard my colleague, the gentleman from Georgia, express 
appreciation that we have a bill now that we can vote on that will fund 
our troops. But again, I haven't voted on it yet. And so I say, let it 
come before us. No wonder this body, this Congress, this great symbol 
of American freedom has a 29 percent approval rating, when we mess 
around with the lives of our troops and the freedom of our citizens.

House leadership seems to have finally relented, and hopefully has 
decided to provide the necessary funding for our brave men and women. I 
am glad to hear that we will put aside any plans to go on break until a 
clean funding bill will pass, and I trust that that will take place 
tomorrow, to support our men and women in combat. Our troops deserve 
this respect.

Recently, the Iraqi Government, after complaints from myself and 
other Members of Congress, decided to forego its plans for a 2-month 
summer recess so important decisions such as the development and 
distribution of Iraq's oil and how to deal properly with sectarian 
violence can be made and laws can be passed.

This Congress similarly has decided not to go home for more than a 
week and leave our troops in limbo until we finish this job. We have to 
stay here and finish our job so our brave troops, our men and women in 
uniform, can finish theirs.

House leadership needs to allow Members to vote as early as possible 
tomorrow on a clean bill, devoid of wasteful, nonmilitary spending. We 
need a bill that doesn't handcuff our generals, but instead gives our 
troops the resources they need. Setting timelines on American 
involvement in Iraq is good policy, but not publicly in front of our 
enemies. Our military commanders need to have control of the situation, 
and not the terrorists.

The Congress needs to give General David Petraeus, the new Commander 
in Iraq, who was confirmed unanimously by the Senate, a chance to fully 
implement the new strategy instead of telegraphing surrender to 
terrorists.

In the Anbar Province, one of the most dangerous areas in Iraq, 
violent crime is dropping, and 20 of 22 tribal leaders of that area now 
support the U.S. and Iraqi forces against al Qaeda. Granted, the level 
of violence remains high, and the hot spots are numerous, and many 
challenges persist. But the wounded soldiers I've met at Walter Reed 
and Bethesda deserve our support. They have indicated that our Armed 
Forces can secure Iraq enough so that an Iraqi Government and a 
security force there can take over.

Time is running out. Congress needs to move past political posturing 
and partisanship and allow the men and women serving in Iraq the 
opportunity to crush the terrorists in the Middle East so our families 
will have a more secure future here at home.

I want us to win this war. There are only two options, as we 
mentioned tonight already, only two options: One, victory; and the 
other, defeat. I do not believe that Americans countenance, by and 
large, the option of defeat.

I am asking my fellow Members of Congress, those that I am proud to 
stand with here on the floor tonight, as well as those who have wavered 
and waffled at times, to buck up. FDR called our America to a strength 
of sacrifice together, to win a war as brave people that sustain this 
great world as well. We, as well, have the privilege tonight, as 
Members of Congress, to call our Nation by first standing together, 
calling them to sacrifice in support of our troops, calling them to 
bravery and courage in standing for this country, calling them to one 
decision, and that being the decision for victory.

Memorial Day is upon us. I will experience this Memorial Day like I 
have experienced no other Memorial Day, because I have stood next to 
these wounded heroes. I have defended these brave troops. I have spoken 
with them. I have had family members, including my son, sign up to do 
that brave duty. And I will say to the troops who may hear us tonight, 
God bless you. We stand with you, and we will support you.