---
---

# None
## `17741e544c74f03ceea146f8e78afaa4`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 14 November 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, the American people get it. 
Over 50 percent of the American people believe that we should now begin 
a reduction of our troops.

As I listened here on the floor of the house, and I listened to my 
good friends on the other side of the aisle claiming the me-me's and 
the I-I's, I hear no one talking about victory.

Victory in what sense? So that we can pound our chests and brag about 
what this Congress and this President has done?

We're talking about lives here. We're talking about lives. And I am 
sick and tired of listening to people bragging about who can claim a 
victory.

Well, my belief is that the soldiers on the battlefield, the most 
deadliest year that we've ever had, 2006, we buried more than we could 
ever imagine. Those soldiers have already claimed victory. They took 
Fallujah. They took Baghdad.

And my concern is why have we not championed the victory of those 
soldiers? Why haven't we welcomed them home, given them accolades 
because they have been victorious?

Someone on the other side has not read this bill. This bill allows 
for a redeployment in an orderly manner, and it demands that the 
President use these dollars to redeploy.

I am not going to trample on the graves of dead soldiers and continue 
a war that has no end. That government has the ability in Iraq to 
diplomatically deal with democracy. We have died so they can deal with 
democracy.

It is time to end this war now and to bring our soldiers home with 
the dignity and victory they deserve.

Right now, in the Nation's hospitals, we are seeing the results of 
his victory. We are seeing soldiers with brain injury, soldiers with no 
limbs. And we have a broken health care system that can't even address 
the question of those soldiers with posttraumatic stress brain injury 
and otherwise.

My voice is gone, but I am tired of this question of victory because 
I believe, and I have a bill, and I ask my good friend from California 
to join it, the Military Success Act of 2007 that chronicles the 
victories of our soldiers.

We can bring them home with dignity. I am not going to tolerate one 
more dead body. And it is time to end this war and end it now.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4156, introduced by my 
colleague, Mr. Obey. I would like to thank him for his ongoing 
leadership as chairman of the Committee on Appropriations, and on this 
important issue in particular.

The legislation we are considering today provides our troops with the 
resources they need, but it does not give the President the blank check 
he has asked for to fund an endless combat operation in Iraq. Instead 
of his additional $200 billion, we are considering a $50 billion 
package, which institutes a redeployment timeline, as well as other 
critical directives designed to transition our role in Iraq and bring 
our troops home.

Madam Speaker, the funds provided by this legislation are, crucially, 
tied to a requirement for the immediate start of the redeployment of 
U.S. forces. It sets December 15, 2008, as the target date for the 
completion of the redeployment, and requires redeployment to begin 
within 30 days of enactment.

As lawmakers continue to debate U.S. policy in Iraq, our heroic young 
men and women continue to willingly sacrifice life and limb on the 
battlefield. Our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. We 
sent them overseas to fight an army; they are now caught in the midst 
of an insurgent civil war and continuing political upheaval. The United 
States will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi Government 
and military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to an end, 
and, when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing their 
nation will fall to Iraqis themselves. However, whether or not my 
colleagues agree that the time has come to withdraw our American forces 
from Iraq, I believe that all of us in Congress should be of one accord 
that our troops deserve our sincere thanks and congratulations.

For this reason, I extremely please to have worked with the 
Democratic leadership to include language recognizing the extraordinary 
achievements of our men and women in uniform. Paragraph 2 of Title I 
reads, ''the performance of United States military personnel in Iraq 
and Afghanistan should be commended, their courage and sacrifice have 
been exceptional, and when they come home, their service should be 
recognized appropriately.'' I believe that the inclusion of this 
language makes it clear that we are proud of the accomplishments of our 
troops, and we look forward to commending them as they return safely 
home.



I also worked with the Leadership to include the language in 
Paragraph 3 of Title 1. This paragraph reads, ''the primary purpose of 
funds made available by this Act should be to transition the mission of 
United States Armed Forces in Iraq and undertake their redeployment, 
and not to extend or prolong the war.'' This language makes explicit 
that this legislation is providing funding for the safe and responsible 
redeployment of our troops, not for the continuation of combat 
operations.


This legislation protects our troops, by providing them with the 
funding they need to safely and successfully redeploy from Iraq. It 
also prohibits the deployment of forces to Iraq who are not fully 
trained and fully equipped. In addition, this legislation includes an 
extension to all U.S. Government agencies and personnel of the current 
prohibition in the Army Field Manual against the use of certain 
interrogation techniques.

Mr. Speaker, this bill contains important language that changes the 
mission of U.S. forces in Iraq to diplomatic and force protection, 
targeted counterterrorism operations, and limited support to Iraqi 
security forces. I firmly believe that we must make diplomacy and 
statecraft tools of the first, rather than the last, resort. We must 
seek constructive engagement with Iraq, its neighbors, and the rest of 
the international community, as we work to bring resolution to this 
calamitous conflict that has already gone on far too long.

Because of my deeply held belief that we must commend our military 
for their exemplary performance and success in Iraq, I have introduced 
legislation, H.R. 4020, with the support of a number of my colleagues, 
entitled the ''Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 2007.'' 
This legislation recognizes the extraordinary performance of the Armed 
Forces in achieving the military objectives of the United States in 
Iraq, encourages the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the 
people of the United States to observe a national day of celebration 
commemorating the military success of American troops in Iraq, and 
provides other affirmative and tangible expressions of appreciation 
from a grateful Nation to all veterans of the war in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, we have already expended 3,500 American lives and $400 
billion in taxpayer dollars in Iraq. We have occupied the country for 
over 4 years. And our President continues to push a strategy devoid of 
clear direction and visible targets, while rejecting congressional 
calls to solidify an exit strategy.

Last November, the American people clearly stated that they did not 
want to see an endless conflict in Iraq; they went to the polls and 
elected a new, Democratic Congress to lead our Nation out of Iraq. I am 
proud to be a member of the Congressional class that listens and 
adheres to the will of the American people, as we did when both houses 
of Congress approved Iraq Supplemental bills that instituted a 
timetable for U.S. withdrawal. We need a new direction, because we owe 
our brave, fighting men and women so much more. Washington made a 
mistake in going to war. It is time for politicians to admit that 
mistake and fix it before any more lives are lost.

This Congress will not, as the previous, Republican, Congress did, 
continue to rubber stamp what we believe to be an ill-conceived war. As 
we continue to receive reports on the situation in Iraq, it is 
important that we continue to look forward, to the future of Iraq 
beyond a U.S. military occupation.

Despite the multitude of mistakes perpetrated by President Bush and 
former Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, our troops have achieved a military 
success in ousting Saddam Hussein and assisting the Iraqis in 
administering a democratic election and electing a democratic 
government. However, only the Iraqi government can secure a lasting 
peace. Time and time again, the Iraqi government has demonstrated an 
inability to deliver on the political benchmarks that they themselves 
agreed were essential to achieving national reconciliation. Continuing 
to put the lives of our soldiers and our national treasury in the hands 
of what by most informed accounts, even by members of the Bush 
Administration, is an ineffective central Iraqi government is 
irresponsible and contrary to the wishes of the overwhelming majority 
of the American people.

Our Nation has already paid a heavy price in Iraq. Over 3,810 
American soldiers have died. In addition, more than 27,660 have been 
wounded in the Iraq war since it began in March 2003. June, July, and 
August have marked the bloodiest months yet in the conflict, and U.S. 
casualties in Iraq are 62 percent higher this year than at this time in 
2006. This misguided, mismanaged, and misrepresented war has claimed 
too many lives of our brave servicemen; its depth, breadth, and scope 
are without precedent in American history. In addition, the United 
States is spending an estimated $10 billion per month in Iraq. This $10 
billion a month translates into $329,670,330 per day, $13,736,264 per 
hour, $228,938 per minute, and $3,816 per second.

For this huge sum of money, we could have repaired the more than 
70,000 bridges across America rated structurally deficient, $188 
billion, potentially averting the tragedy that occurred August 1 in 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. We could have rebuilt the levees in New 
Orleans, $50 billion, protecting that city from future hurricanes that 
could bring Katrina-like destruction upon the city. We could have 
provided all U.S. public safety officials with interoperable 
communication equipment, $10 billion, allowing them to effectively 
communicate in the event of an emergency, and we could have paid for 
screening all air cargo on passenger planes for the next 10 years, $3.6 
billion. And, we could have enrolled 1.4 million additional children in 
Head Start programs, $10 billion. Instead of funding increased death 
and destruction in Iraq, we could have spent hard-earned taxpayer 
dollars on important progress here at home.

The Foreign Affairs Committee, of which I am proud to be a member, 
has recently heard a string of reports from military and civilian 
officials about the political, military, social, and economic situation 
in Iraq. Two weeks ago, the Government Accountability Office, GAO, 
informed the Congress that the Iraqi government has met only 3 of the 
18 legislative, economic, and security benchmarks. Despite the surge, 
despite increasing U.S. military involvement, the Iraqi Government has 
not made substantial progress toward stabilizing their country.


President Bush rationalized his surge, over opposition by myself and 
other House Democrats, by arguing it would give the Iraqi government 
''the breathing space it needs to make progress in other critical 
areas,'' bringing about reconciliation between warring factions, Sunni 
and Shia. However, non-partisan assessments, such as last week's GAO 
report, have illustrated that escalating U.S. military involvement in 
Iraq is instead hindering that nation's ability to move beyond the 
devastation of war and death, to build a successful new government, and 
to create a stable and secure environment. In the 7 months since the 
surge began, increased American military presence has not been able to 
end the relentless cycles of sectarian violence that continue to plague 
Iraq. Nor have larger numbers of U.S. troops been successful in 
unifying and strengthening the Iraqi Government.

Instead, the security situation continues to deteriorate. Sectarian 
violence remains high, and even the Bush administration has noted the 
unsatisfactory progress toward political reconciliation. The Sunni-led 
insurgency continues, with insurgents conducting increasingly complex 
and well-coordinated attacks. The August 2007 National Intelligence 
Estimate cited ongoing violence, stating, ''the level of overall 
violence, including attacks on and casualties among civilians, remain 
high; Iraq's sectarian groups remain unreconciled.'' The report went on 
to note that al-Qaeda in Iraq, AQI, ''retains the ability to conduct 
high-profile attacks,'' and ''Iraqi political leaders remain unable to 
govern effectively.''

The ever-increasing sectarian violence is causing immense daily 
challenges for Iraqis. Millions have been displaced, and an Iraqi Red 
Crescent Organization has reported an increase of nearly 630,000 
internally displaced persons from February 2007 to July 2007. The same 
organization predicts an additional 80,000 to 100,000 persons are 
displaced each month. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has 
estimated that 1.8 million Iraqis are now refugees, with an additional 
40,000 to 50,000 fleeing to neighboring countries each month. Iraq has 
become a humanitarian disaster, and one that continues to get worse 
every day.

The United States military is a skilled and highly proficient 
organization, and where there are large numbers of U.S. troops, it is 
unsurprising that we see fewer incidents of violence. However, it is 
our responsibility to take a longer-term view. The United States will 
not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi Government and 
military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to an end, and, 
when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing their nation 
will fall to Iraqis themselves. And so far, we have not seen a 
demonstrated commitment by the Iraqi Government.

In addition, evidence suggests that not only is increased U.S. 
military presence in Iraq not making that nation more secure, it may 
also be threatening our national security by damaging our ability to 
respond to real threats to our own homeland. The recently released 
video by Osama bin Laden serves to illustrate that President Bush has 
not caught this international outlaw, nor brought him to justice. 
Instead, he has diverted us from the real war on terror to the war of 
his choice in Iraq.


The former Chairman and Vice Chairman of the 9/11 Commission, Thomas 
H. Kean and Lee H. Hamilton, share this view. In a recent op-ed, Kean 
and Hamilton note that our own actions have contributed to a rise of 
radicalization and rage in the Muslim world. Kean and Hamilton write 
that ''no conflict drains more time, attention, blood, treasure, and 
support from our worldwide counterterrorism efforts than the war in 
Iraq. It


has become a powerful recruiting and training tool for al-Qaeda.''

Our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. We sent them 
overseas to fight an army; they are now caught in the midst of an 
insurgent civil war and political upheaval. I have, for some time now, 
advocated for congressional legislation declaring a military victory in 
Iraq, and recognizing the success of our military. Our brave troops 
have completed the task we set for them; it is time now to bring them 
home. Our next steps should not be a continuing escalation of military 
involvement, but instead a diplomatic surge.

Democrats in Congress will not continue to rubber stamp the 
President's ill-conceived war effort. Last November, the American 
people spoke loudly and clearly, demanding a new direction to U.S. 
foreign policy, and we here in Congress are committed to seeing that 
change be brought about. We are working to see the extensive funds 
currently being spent to sustain the war in Iraq go to important 
domestic programs and to securing our homeland against real and 
imminent threats.

President Bush and Vice President Cheney have been given numerous 
chances and ample time by the American people and the Congress to 
straighten out the mess in Iraq. They have failed. It is pure fantasy 
to imagine that President Bush's military surge has created the 
necessary safety and security to meet economic, legislative, and 
security benchmarks. It is time for a new strategy, a new plan that 
will encourage Iraqis to take charge of their own destiny, seek 
constructive and sustained regional engagement, and substitute the ill-
advised military surge for a thoughtful diplomatic one. It is time to 
be realistic and pragmatic, to recognize that our troops achieved what 
they were initially sent in for and that continued U.S. military 
engagement is not bringing about the desired results.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation provides our brave soldiers in Iraq 
with the resources they need, while requiring that the President begin 
to redeploy our troops. It keeps our soldiers safe, and it keeps our 
Nation safe. By bringing an end to this conflict, this Democratic 
Congress is making significant strides forward toward protecting and 
securing America.

I strongly urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting today's 
legislation, and in giving the troops the resources they need to safely 
redeploy from Iraq.