---
---

# OPPOSE THE SECOND CHANCE ACT
## `1784f02588c13c70b3a9b6e832e0c26d`
`Mr. CARTER — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. I agree completely with what my friend Judge Gohmert had 
to say. You have given a very good history of what has been the history 
of the Democrat Party when they were in the majority or where they were 
in control of the White House. They have a history of cutting and 
providing less than the necessary supplies for our military.

In fact, one of the great brags that Al Gore used to say is that he 
reduced the number of employees in the Federal Government by this huge 
amount. But if you looked at where they came from, they were United 
States soldiers. Members of the military made up the vast majority of 
the numbers of reducing the size of government that were taken credit 
for during the Clinton administration. They cut our Army down from 
multidivisions, down to where it is now.

But you know what? That is all water under the bridge. You had 
mentioned something that is very important to me: We took an oath.

We took an oath, and our colleague from Texas (Mr. Neugebauer) got 
asked a question by one of his folks back home: Why do you feel so that 
you are doing the right thing by providing for these guys that are 
fighting over in Iraq?

He said, You know, it is easy to criticize. But when you become 
responsible, then you have really got to look at it. And he said, I am 
by my oath responsible to the American public to provide for the common 
defense.

It as a perfect answer. That is exactly what we all did, Republican 
and Democrat, is we took an oath to be responsible to the American 
people to provide protection for those people. And some of these are 
hard calls and hard votes. These are not for me. These are not for me 
nor for anyone in this room. But it is a hard vote for some. So it is 
just sad. And sometimes we have just got to remember why we are here.

I would like to mention one more thing because I know our time is 
getting late. But we talked about this $392.5 billion tax increase that 
is coming down the road. Let me point out to folks that are paying gas 
prices. If you don't like $3 a gallon gasoline, which, by the way, 
there was supposed to be an instant solution for that problem when the 
new majority came into power, but we haven't seen it. In fact, it has 
only been made worse, in my opinion.

But take that, and I looked at that long list of what it means to 
everybody's district for this tax increase, and everybody gets--at 
least $2,000 it is going to cost the average family, At least $2,000. 
So take that money that you are putting aside to pay for that gas and 
subtract $2,000 a year from it. So the price of gas is going up. If 
nothing else, the price of gas is going up for the average American 
family by this tax increase, and it is something that will hurt our 
economy and turn us in the wrong direction.

I just wanted to mention that before we have to quit.