# HONORING THURGOOD MARSHALL ON THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF HIS BIRTH
## `17907658bcc1b4f85909d3c4fc313a75`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 14 July 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of 
this legislation that honors an individual of unprecedented stature and 
achievement. This leader was a fighter who stood boldly on the front 
lines of democracy to fight for liberty and equality for all. This 
legal giant is none other than the late Thurgood Marshall.

Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., said that we all can be great because we 
all can serve. It is my responsibility to pay tribute to the late great 
Thurgood Marshall who served our Nation by transforming it.

The late Thurgood Marshall put in place mechanisms to elevate the 
United States to its greatest potential. As a result, all Americans 
presently can reap the benefits of Thurgood


Marshall's arduous travail. One of his greatest victories was his work 
in the landmark Supreme Court case of Brown v. Board of Education in 
1954. In Brown, the Supreme Court ruled that ''separate but equal'' 
public education was unconstitutional because it could never be truly 
equal.

Marshall's arguments before the Supreme Court were myriad and 
historic. In total, Marshall won an unprecedented 29 out of the 32 
cases he argued before the Supreme Court.

In 1961, President John F. Kennedy appointed Marshall to the United 
States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On June 13, 1967, 
President Johnson appointed Marshall to the Supreme Court following the 
retirement of Justice Tom C. Clark. In appointing Marshall, President 
Johnson declared this was ''the right thing to do, the right time to do 
it, the right man and the right place.'' He was the 96th person to hold 
the position, and the first African-American.

Today I stand before you, as many of my colleagues do, as a proud 
product of Thurgood Marshall's vision for equal access to education. 
Because of Thurgood Marshall's profound vision, one's access to 
education is no longer dependent upon the color of their skin or their 
income, but upon the demonstration of their academic promise, and 
scholarly merit and capability. Notwithstanding Marshall's legendary 
achievements in civil rights, America has much work to do. In thinking 
of our progress, I am reminded of the Bible in Jeremiah 8:20, ''The 
harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved.'' America 
has reaped the harvest of Marshall's life, Marshall's life is now past, 
and America has much work to do in civil rights. American people are 
not yet saved. The problem of this century, as it has been in past 
centuries, is still the problem of the color line. America has made 
great strides in this regard. Nonetheless, America still has work to 
do.

Although there are still some barriers to overcome, Thurgood Marshall 
removed the road block that stymied America from being as good as its 
promise. Thurgood Marshall also impacted the international community. 
Mr. Marshall was asked by the United Nations and the United Kingdom to 
help draft the constitutions of the emerging African nations of Ghana 
and what is now Tanzania. It was felt that the person who so 
successfully fought for the rights of America's oppressed minority 
would be the perfect person to ensure the rights of all African 
citizens, both Black and White, in these two former European colonies.

Being the right man or woman at the right time is no easy task. There 
is no room for passiveness or reluctance to action. Following in the 
tradition of the late Thurgood Marshall, we, the representatives of the 
United States citizenry, are the right people at the right time. 
Although our current battles differ slightly from those of Thurgood 
Marshall, we are faced with our own battles which include, the economy, 
creating affordable housing, immigration, Iraq, the pursuit of energy 
independence, and making sure that our veterans are properly taken care 
of.

The precedent that the late Thurgood Marshall set, in fighting to 
make the U.S. as great as its promise, should be our motivation to pass 
good legislation to protect the rights of American people as we honor 
and recognize his dedication and achievements on this 100th anniversary 
of his birth.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to join me in recognizing a 
true hero, Thurgood Marshall who died on January 24, 1993, at the age 
of 84. Let us honor his dedication and achievements as we recognize his 
contributions to the struggle for equal rights and justice in the 
United States.