---
---

# ELECTION OF SPEAKER
## `1792dce49fec668d11ff6ccbe256a790`
`Ms. PELOSI — 4 January 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Thank you, Leader Boehner. Thank you, my colleagues. Mr. 
Speaker. Mr. Speakers.

I accept this gavel in the spirit of partnership, not partisanship, 
and I look forward to working with you, Mr. Boehner, and the 
Republicans in the Congress for the good of the American people.

After giving this gavel away in the last two Congresses, I am glad 
someone else has the honor today.

In this House, we may be different parties, but we serve one country, 
and our pride and our prayers are united behind our men and women in 
uniform. They are working together to protect the American people; and 
in this Congress, we must work together to build a future worthy of 
their sacrifice.

In this hour, we need and pray for the character, courage, and 
civility of a former Member of this House, President Ford. He healed 
the country when it needed healing. This is another time, another war, 
and another trial of American will, imagination, and spirit. Let us 
honor his memory not just in eulogy, but in dialogue and trust across 
the aisle.

I want to join Leader Boehner in expressing our condolences and our 
appreciation to Mrs. Ford and to the entire Ford family for their 
decades of leadership and service to our country.

With today's convening of the 110th Congress, we begin anew. I 
congratulate all Members of Congress on your election. I especially 
want to congratulate our new Members of Congress. Let's hear it for our 
new Members.

The genius of our Founders was that every 2 years, new Members would 
bring to this House their spirit of renewal and hope for the American 
people. This Congress is reinvigorated, new Members, by your optimism 
and your idealism and your commitment to our country. Let us 
acknowledge your families whose support have made your leadership 
possible today.

Each of us brings to this Congress our shared values, our commitment 
to the Constitution, and our personal experience. My path to Congress 
and to the speakership began in Baltimore where my father was the 
mayor. I was raised in a large family that was devoutly Catholic, 
deeply patriotic, very proud of our Italian-American heritage, and 
staunchly Democratic. My parents taught us that public service was a 
noble calling, and that we had a responsibility to help those in need.



My parents worked on the side of the angels, and now they are with 
them.

But I am so happy that my brother, Tommy D'Alesandro, who was also a 
mayor of Baltimore, is here leading the D'Alesandro family from 
Baltimore today. He is sitting right up there with Tony Bennett.

Forty-three years ago, Paul Pelosi and I were married. We raised our 
five children in San Francisco where Paul was born and raised. I want 
to thank Paul and our five children, Nancy Corrine, Christine, 
Jacqueline, Paul, Jr., and Alexandra, and our magnificent 
grandchildren, for their love, for their support, and the confidence 
they gave me to go from the kitchen to the Congress.

And I thank my constituents in San Francisco and to the State of 
California for the privilege of representing them in Congress. St. 
Francis of Assisi is our city's patron saint, and his prayer of St. 
Francis is our city's anthem: Lord, make me a channel of thy peace; 
where there is darkness may we bring light, where there is hatred may 
we bring love, and where there is despair, may we bring hope.

Hope, that is what America is about. And it is in that spirit that I 
serve in the Congress of the United States.

And today, I thank my colleagues. By electing me Speaker, you have 
brought us closer to the ideal of equality that is America's heritage 
and America's hope.

This is a historic moment, and I thank the leader for acknowledging 
it. Thank you, Mr. Boehner. It is a historic moment for the Congress, 
and it is a historic moment for the women of America.

It is a moment for which we have waited for over 200 years. Never 
losing faith, we waited through the many years of struggle to achieve 
our rights. But women were not just waiting;


women were working. Never losing faith, we worked to redeem the promise 
of America that all men and women are created equal. For our daughters 
and our granddaughters, today we have broken the marble ceiling. For 
our daughters and our granddaughters, the sky is the limit. Anything is 
possible for them.

The election of 2006 was a call to change, not merely to change the 
control of Congress, but for a new direction for our country. Nowhere 
were the American people more clear about the need for a new direction 
than in the war in Iraq.

The American people rejected an open-ended obligation to a war 
without end. Shortly, President Bush will address the Nation on the 
subject of Iraq. It is the responsibility of the President to 
articulate a new plan for Iraq that makes it clear to the Iraqis that 
they must defend their own streets and their own security, a plan that 
promotes stability in the region and a plan that allows us to 
responsibly redeploy our troops.

Let us work together to be the Congress that rebuilds our military to 
meet the national security challenges of the 21st century.

Let us be the Congress that strongly honors our responsibility to 
protect the American people from terrorism.

Let us be the Congress that never forgets our commitment to our 
veterans and our first responders, always honoring them as the heroes 
that they are.

The American people also spoke clearly for a new direction here at 
home. They desire a new vision, a new America built on the values that 
have made our country great.

Our Founders envisioned a new America driven by optimism, 
opportunity, and courage. So confident were they in the America that 
they were advancing that they put on the seal, the great seal of the 
United States: ''Novus ordo seclorum,'' a new order for the centuries. 
Centuries; they spoke of the centuries. They envisioned America as a 
just and good place, as a fair and efficient society, as a source of 
hope and opportunity for all.

This vision has sustained us for over 200 years, and it accounts for 
what is best in our great Nation: liberty, opportunity, and justice.

Now it is our responsibility to carry forth that vision of a new 
America into the 21st century. A new America that seizes the future and 
forges 21st-century solutions through discovery, creativity, and 
innovation, sustaining our economic leadership and ensuring our 
national security. A new America with a vibrant and strengthened middle 
class for whom college is affordable, health care is accessible, and 
retirement reliable. A new America that declares our energy 
independence, promotes domestic sources of renewable energy, and 
combats climate change. A new America that is strong, secure, and a 
respected leader among the community of nations.

And the American people told us they expected us to work together for 
fiscal responsibility, with the highest ethical standards and with 
civility and bipartisanship.

After years of historic deficits, this 110th Congress will commit 
itself to a higher standard: pay-as-you-go, no new deficit spending. 
Our new America will provide unlimited opportunity for future 
generations, not burden them with mountains of debt.

In order to achieve our new America for the 21st century, we must 
return this House to the American people. So our first order of 
business is passing the toughest congressional ethics reform in 
history. This new Congress doesn't have 2 years or 200 days. Let us 
join together in the first 100 hours to make this Congress the most 
honest and open Congress in history. 100 hours.

This openness requires respect for every voice in the Congress. As 
Thomas Jefferson said, ''Every difference of opinion is not a 
difference of principle.'' My colleagues elected me to be Speaker of 
the House, the entire House. Respectful of the vision of our Founders, 
the expectation of our people, and the great challenges that we face, 
we have an obligation to reach beyond partisanship to work for all 
Americans.

Let us stand together to move our country forward, seeking common 
ground for the common good. We have made history; now let us make 
progress for the American people.

May God bless our work, and may God bless America.



Before we move forward, because there are so many children here and 
so many of them asked me if they could touch the gavel, I wanted to 
invite as many of them who wanted to come forward to come join me up 
here. I know my own grandchildren will.

Let's hear it for the children. We're here for the children. For 
these children, our children, and for all of America's children, the 
House will come to order.

I am now ready to take the oath of office from the Dean of the 
Congress of the United States, Mr. Dingell. In acknowledging him, I 
also want to acknowledge Speaker Foley who has been with us as well.

Mr. DINGELL then administered the oath of office to Ms. Pelosi of 
California, as follows:

Do you solemnly swear that you will support and defend the 
Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and 
domestic; that you will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; 
that you take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or 
purpose of evasion; and that you will well and faithfully discharge the 
duties of the office on which you are about to enter, so help you God.

(Applause, the Members rising.)