# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `179810c0a7de78cfc5a5d1e65c087972`
`Mrs. BOXER — 25 March 2010`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Madam President, I rise today to pay tribute to 14 
servicemembers from California or based in California who have died 
while serving our country in Operation Enduring Freedom since December 
16, 2009. This brings to 147 the number of servicemembers either from 
California or based in California who have been killed while serving 
our country in Afghanistan. This represents 14 percent of all U.S. 
deaths in Afghanistan.

PFC Serge Kropov, 21, of Hawley, PA, died December 20, 2009, as a 
result of a nonhostile incident in Helmand province, Afghanistan. 
Private First Class


Kropov was assigned to Marine Aircraft Group 16, 3rd Marine Aircraft 
Wing, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, 
CA.

LCpl Omar G. Roebuck, 23, of Moreno Valley, CA, died December 22, 
2009, as a result of a nonhostile incident in Helmand province, 
Afghanistan. Lance Corporal Roebuck was assigned to 2nd Combat Engineer 
Battalion, 2nd Marine Division, II Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp 
Lejeune, NC.

SSG David H. Gutierrez, 35, of San Francisco, CA, died December 25, 
2009, at Kandahar Air Field, Afghanistan, of wounds suffered when 
insurgents attacked his dismounted patrol with an improvised explosive 
device in Howz-e Madad. Staff Sergeant Gutierrez was assigned to the 
2nd Battalion, 1st Infantry Regiment, 5th Brigade, 2nd Infantry 
Division, Fort Lewis, WA.

SSG Anton R. Phillips, 31, of Inglewood, CA, died December 31, 2009, 
at Forward Operating Base Methar Lam, Afghanistan. Staff Sergeant 
Phillips was assigned to G Forward Support Company, 77th Field 
Artillery Regiment, 2nd Battalion, Task Force Wildhorse, Forward 
Operating Base Methar Lam, Afghanistan.

LCpl Jeremy M. Kane, 22, of Towson, MD, died January 23, 2010, while 
supporting combat operations in Helmand province, Afghanistan. Lance 
Corporal Kane was assigned to 4th Light Armored Reconnaissance 
Battalion, 4th Marine Division, Marine Forces Reserve, based out of 
Camp Pendleton, CA.

SGT David J. Smith, 25, of Frederick, MD, died January 26, 2010, from 
wounds received January 23 while supporting combat operations in 
Helmand Province, Afghanistan. Sergeant Smith was assigned to 4th Light 
Armored Reconnaissance Battalion, 4th Marine Division, Marine Forces 
Reserve, based out of Camp Pendleton, CA.

SSG Mark A. Stets, 39, of El Cajon, CA, died February 3, 2010, in 
Timagara, Pakistan, from wounds suffered when insurgents attacked his 
unit with an improvised explosive device. Staff Sergeant Stets was 
assigned to the 8th Psychological Operations Battalion, Airborne, 4th 
Psychological Operations Group, Airborne, Fort Bragg, NC.

LCpl Alejandro J. Yazzie, 23, of Rock Point, AZ, died February 16, 
2010, while supporting combat operations in Helmand province, 
Afghanistan. Lance Corporal Yazzie was assigned to 1st Combat Engineer 
Battalion, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp 
Pendleton, CA.

PFC Charles A. Williams, 29, of Fair Oaks, CA, died February 7, 2010, 
at Camp Nathan Smith, Afghanistan, of injuries sustained while 
supporting combat operations. Private First Class Williams was assigned 
to the 97th Military Police Battalion, 18th Military Police Brigade, 
Fort Riley, KA.

LCpl Joshua H. Birchfield, 24, of Westville, IN, died February 19, 
2010, while supporting combat operations in Farah province, 
Afghanistan. Lance Corporal Birchfield was assigned to 3rd Battalion, 
4th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, 
Twentynine Palms, CA.

SSG Michael David P. Cardenaz, 29, of Corona, CA, died February 20, 
2010, in Kunar, Afghanistan, when enemy forces attacked his unit with 
rocket-propelled grenades. Staff Sergeant Cardenaz was assigned to the 
2nd Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 4th 
Infantry Division, Fort Carson, CO.

SPC Ian T.D. Gelig, 25, of Stevenson Ranch, CA, died March 1, 2010, 
in Kandahar, Afghanistan, of wounds suffered when enemy forces attacked 
his vehicle with an improvised explosive device. Specialist Gelig was 
assigned to the 782nd Brigade Support Battalion, 4th Brigade Combat 
Team, 82nd Airborne Division, Fort Bragg, NC.

LCpl Carlos A. Aragon, 19, of Orem, UT, died March 1, 2010, while 
supporting combat operations in Helmand province, Afghanistan. Lance 
Corporal Aragon was assigned to 4th Light Armored Reconnaissance 
Battalion, 4th Marine Division, Marine Forces Reserve, based out of 
Camp Pendleton, CA.

LCpl Nigel K. Olsen, 21, of Orem, UT, died March 4, 2010, while 
supporting combat operations in Helmand province, Afghanistan. Lance 
Corporal Olsen was assigned to the 4th Light Armored Reconnaissance 
Battalion, 4th Marine Division, Marine Forces Reserve, based out of 
Camp Pendleton, CA.

I would also like to pay tribute to a young American who was killed 
serving our country in Iraq during this same time period. This brings 
to 883 the number of servicemembers either from California or based in 
California who have been killed while serving our country in Iraq. This 
represents 20 percent of all U.S. deaths in Iraq.

PFC Scott G. Barnett, 24, of Concord, CA, died January 28 in Tallil, 
Iraq, of injuries sustained while supporting combat operations. Private 
First Class Barnett was assigned to the 412th Aviation Support 
Battalion, 12th Combat Aviation Brigade, Katterbach, Germany.
