---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `17989d384bb3b9e4ffb6983637705914`
`Mr. ADERHOLT — 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information 
regarding earmarks I received as part of the Consolidated Security, 
Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment 
of the Senate to H.R. 2638 the Department of Homeland Security 
Appropriations Act 2008; Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009.

Request as named in the report: D-NET: Electrically Charged (ECM) 
Mesh Defense Net Troop Protection System.

Requesting Member: Aderholt.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009 RDT&E--Army; Line 10, Missile Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Victory Solutions, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4900 Corporate Drive, Suite A, 
Huntsville, AL, 35805.

Description of Request: $2,560,000 will be used to further develop a 
system to defend against rocket propelled grenades (RPG), mortars, and 
small rocket fire. The system meets a need for a defense mechanism 
which uses a non-explosive form of delivery and thereby can be mounted 
on helicopters without adding danger to the helicopter when it is fired 
upon. Recent meetings of the contractor with DOD have created a strong 
interest in possibly first deploying this system to protect ground 
vehicles. Funding of $3.2 million would have provided for the following 
activities, with perhaps more funding needed for the final phase; these 
plans will be adjusted, to adapt to the final Congressional figure 
above. Phase II, Task A Net Development R&D ($500k): Net Material, 
Ground vehicle version $80k; Aerial Platform $80k; 15 Range Tests/
Parametric Studies/Validation, $100k; Labor/Salaries (Engineering and 
Manufacturing labor), $240k. Phase II, Task B Launcher Development 
($1M): Ground and Aerial Launcher Design and Development R&D and 
Fabrication, $450k; 10 Range Tests, $75k; Labor for Engineering, 
Integration and Manufacturing, $400k; Travel to Govt Program Office 
Customers, $75k. Phase II, Task C Launcher Fire Controller ($500k): 
Sensor Compatability Design, Platform Design, Current System 
Availability Design, $200k; Fire Control Communication Cards, $150k; 
Labor (Engineering and Manual Data Card Configuration), $150K. Phase 
II, Task D Integration to Systems & Platforms:


Design and Integration Trade Studies, COTS Integration Analysis and 
Labor, $450; Customer Specification Design Driven Travel to Platform 
Project Offices, $50k. Phase III, On Demand Manufacturing and Fielding 
Requirements: 1st Order (500-1,000) Material, Manufacturing to Order 
and Ship to War Zone Delivery Costs, $1.2M Estimated. The Army Aviation 
& Missile, Research, Development, and Engineering Center (AMRDEC) at 
Redstone Arsenal conducted initial tests and development activities, 
including Net Prototype Hardware, which passed a bench test in November 
2007, and a range test February 26, 2008. 100 percent Effective vs. 
RPGs with 3 for 3 Intercept Negations. After summer briefings to Army 
and JIEDDO staff, additional Army tests funds have been committed by 
AMRDEC for 6 Tests in October 2008. The Army and JIEDDO have stated 
they want technology for Ground vehicles and rotor aircraft ASAP and 
will sponsor seed tests. If successful tests continue, this project 
could provide very near-term, very effective protection for helicopters 
and ground vehicles at a much lower cost than current efforts, thereby 
saving lives, equipment, and mission-time.

Request as named in the report: Collection Management Tool 
Development.

Requesting Member: Cramer, Aderholt.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. Defense-Wide RDT&E; Budget line 999 
Classified Programs.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: DESE Research, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 315 Wynn Drive, Suite 2, Huntsville, AL 
35805.

Description of Request: $1,440,000 to develop automated tools to 
assist analysts in identifying foreign technology intelligence 
collection requirements.

Request as named in the report: Space Control Test Capabilities.

Requesting Member: Everett, Aderholt, Rogers (AL).

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. RDT&E--Air Force, Line 66 Counterspace 
Systems.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Davidson Technologies.

Address of Requesting Entity: 530 Discovery Drive, Huntsville, AL 
35806.

Description of Request: $1,600,000. The funding is for the continued 
development and accreditation of Space Control Test Capabilities to 
support the Air Force's requirement to integrate offensive and 
defensive space control elements into a single System-of-Systems 
counterspace system approach; specifically, to address the optimization 
of C /2/ processes and resources, and to develop a cost assessment tool 
for the government to test space control systems in a simulated 
environment before costly hardware development begins. Space Control 
Test Capabilities supports the Air Force Space Control mission areas 
and mission support as outlined in the Air Force's ''Strategic Master 
Plan for FY 2006 and beyond'', the ''Joint Doctrine for Space 
Operations (JP 3-14)'', and the ''Counterspace Operations (JP 2-2.1)''. 
The SCTC software suite allows the warfighters the capability to 
develop net-centric System-of-Systems architecture-based C /2/ models. 
Warfighters also have the ability to model Friend or Foe C /2/ 
structures yielding the analysis of vulnerabilities and/or strengths. 
Based on funding of $2,000,000, the spending plan would have been as 
follows, and will be adjusted to meet the final amount mentioned above. 
Engineering Salaries (including Software Engineering, Systems 
Engineering, Design, Requirements and Documentation, Test Engineering, 
and Configuration Management): 1,780,000; Software Licensing (Goes 
toward software accreditation process): $10,000; Travel to Colorado 
Springs, AF Space Command: $10,000; Government Pass-through Costs: 
$200,000.

Request as named in the report: Protective Self-Decontaminating 
Surfaces.

Requesting Member: Grijalva, Aderholt.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. Defense Wide RDT&E Line 33, Chemical and 
Biological Defense Program--Advanced Development.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Ventana Research Corp. (VRC); and 
Kappler, Inc. (K, Inc).

Address of Requesting Entity: Ventana: 2702 South 4th Avenue, South 
Tucson, AZ 85713-4816; Kappler: 115 Grimes Drive, Guntersville, AL 
35976-9364.

Description of Request: $1,600,000 to complete research on and 
produce prototypes of protective self-decontaminating clothing for use 
by the warfighter and Homeland Security personnel. The following spend 
plan was adjusted to the House subcommittee figure of $2,000,000, and 
will be adjusted to the House's final figure mentioned above. Ventana 
Research Corp: Labor, $620,000; Materials $60,000; Travel $20,000. 
Government Performers: DOD Joint Program Management Office-Decon 
(Program Manager), $170,000; Air Force Research Lab/RXQL (Test & 
Evaluation), $200,000; Natick Soldier Res. Dev. & Eng. Center (ACD&P 
Manager), $100,000. Kappler, Inc. (Protective Garments & Shelter 
Interiors), $800,000; WPI Chemistry & Biochemistry Dept. (Consulting), 
$30,000. Present decontamination processes against Chemical & 
Biological (CB) Agents are very labor intensive and time consuming 
requiring in many cases the use of expensive equipment and considerable 
down-times for applying the process. The advanced prototypes generated 
under this program will demonstrate the capability of providing 
immediate on-site protection applicable against multiple threats. The 
decontamination system will be much less manpower intensive, storage 
stable, environmentally safe, compatible with a wide variety of 
materials and protective gear and have the capability to penetrate and 
adhere to surfaces. It minimizes the need for complicated after-the-
fact decontamination processes and maximizes recovery of critical 
military assets. The advanced prototypes produced and field tested 
under this program will demonstrate a cost-effective protection 
technology for our military personnel and civilian population. The 
target completion date is 12/30/2010.

Request as named in the report: Vertical/Horizontal Integration of 
Space Technologies and Applications (VISTA).

Requesting Member: Aderholt.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009 RDT&E--Army; Line 34 Command, Control, 
Communications Advanced Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Global Security & Engineering 
Solutions/L-3 Communications.

Address of Requesting Entity: 654 Discovery Drive, Huntsville, AL 
35806.

Description of Request: $2,400,000 to the VISTA technology effort, to 
develop an application-based software program to integrate space and 
missile defense products and services with the tactical Army's Battle 
Command workstations using multi-agent and knowledge management 
technologies. When completed, this program will allow the warfighter to 
receive information on the battlefield from any U.S. asset, from any 
branch of the Armed Services, including satellite data. FY09 
Congressional support will keep the program progressing and accelerate 
its delivery to the warfighter. The spend plan is as follows: Travel--
$50,000; ODCs (Hardware and Software procurement), $50,000; Labor--
$2,300,000: Broken Down by Task: Requirements Definition $225,000; 
Design $300,000; Implementation $350,000; Test $350,000; Certification 
$275,000; Event Participation (experiments, Army technology 
demonstrations, exercises and training events) $450,000; Fielding to 
Warfighter $350,000. The VISTA effort has demonstrated, in a laboratory 
Proof of Concept evaluation, automated space to specific unit threat 
warning capabilities across multiple networks. Missile Threat Warnings 
generated in the strategic Joint Data Network (JDN) were identified, 
analyzed and provided directly to the specifically threatened unit in 
the tactical Brigade and below network. These warnings were directly 
integrated with individually affected units equipped with either FBCB2 
or C2PC Battle Command systems. This capability is being integrated 
into the Space and Missile Defense Battle Lab for experimentation 
during the fall of 2008. Additionally, this capability is in the 
planning and integration phases with the overall TITAN ATO effort with 
a planned demonstration at the Command, Control, Communications, 
Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) On-
The-Move (OTM) test-bed, Ft. Dix New Jersey, during the summer of 2009. 
This demonstration of the VISTA Information Dissemination and 
Management (IDM) intelligent multi-agent system is being sponsored by 
Battle Command Battle Lab-Leavenworth (BCBL-L) in coordination with the 
SMD Technical Center (SMDTC), Space Division, as well as CERDEC Command 
and Control Directorate (C2D) under a spin out capability from the 
TITAN ATO. The VISTA intelligent multi-agent system is also being 
proposed by BCBL-L (Battle Command Battle Lab at Ft Leavenworth) as a 
capability to enhance Battalion


and below electronic warfare and IED Situational Awareness. The VISTA 
system would integrate WARLOCK (IED Sensor) systems with FBCB2 Battle 
Command systems. This potential VISTA spin-out capability has been 
briefed to the Army G-6/CIO and JIEDDO PMs by BCBL-L personnel. BCBL-L 
in coordination with SMDTC (SMDC Technical Center) has developed 
proposal to execute a two-year rapid prototyping of this capability 
into FBCB2. Congressional support will facilitate approval for the 
rapid prototype development. Based on progress to date, the DOD has 
decided to include this program in future budget requests, beginning 
with FY10.

Request as named in the report: Radiation Hardening Initiative.

Requesting Member: Cramer, Aderholt.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. RDT&E--Army. Line 55 Army Missile Defense 
Systems Integration.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Analytical Services, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 350 Voyager Way, Huntsville, Alabama 
35806.

Description of Request: $2,400,000 for a Radiation Hardening 
Initiative (RHI) to provide an integrated design suite enabling simpler 
yet comprehensive rad-hard analysis that can be performed earlier in 
the design of systems allowing for satisfaction of rad-hard 
requirements, reduced cost/risk and better schedule adherence. 
Approximately 90 percent of the funding is for salaries of researchers, 
engineers, and software developers. Approximately 10 percent is for 
software costs, including the purchase of some COTS to improve the 
analysis capability. Radiation hardening is not a requirement typically 
made at the local or state level. The programs that require this 
capability are typically national defense or space programs. Many 
planned assets remain vulnerable to radiation environments. The RHI 
will integrate four related technology areas: (1) RadHard Component 
Catalog. (2) Automated design environments for military systems. (3) 
Radiation transport and effects models, including natural and man-made 
radiation environments. (4) System-specific accredited modeling and 
simulation tools. The integrated RHI products will encapsulate a 
comprehensive rad-hard design approach that predicts mission 
performance and system cost through use of proven components and 
simulation-based design trades.

Request as named in the report: Autonomous Cargo Acquisition for 
Rotorcraft Unmanned Aerial Vehicles.

Requesting Member: Cramer, Aderholt.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. RDT&E Army. Line 31 Aviation Advanced 
Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Advanced Optical Systems, Inc. 
(AOS).

Address of Requesting Entity: 6767 Old Madison Pike, Suite 410, 
Huntsville, AL 35606.

Description of Request: $2,400,000 to develop and demonstrate 
completely unmanned cargo pickup and delivery, leveraging current 
developments for manned systems. This project will provide the Aviation 
and Missile Command with the development and demonstration of fully 
unmanned cargo pickup and delivery for logistics supply and weapons 
placement. The Army is currently developing a system for manned 
rotorcraft that will eliminate the need for a ground crew in external 
cargo operations. A completely unmanned cargo pickup and delivery 
system is the next logical extension, but currently this operational 
need is unfunded. Unmanned cargo operations would help reduce aircrew 
losses in situations such as those our armed forces are currently 
experiencing in Iraq and Afghanistan. Numerous Army UAS would benefit 
from this technology, and the technology would be applicable to other 
DOD UAS. These systems could also become useful for emergency 
evacuation. The spend plan is as follows: Army in-house: 10 percent--
$240,000; In-house Labor: 60 percent--$1,440,000; Local machine shops 5 
percent--$120,000; Local Radar subcontractor 15 percent--$600,000. The 
Army will supply an unmanned rotocraft, such as Fire Scout, A-160, or 
Unmanned Little Bird for testing. As a fallback, the Army may provide a 
manned helicopter for testing. The planned radar subcontractor is Phase 
IV of Huntsville, Alabama. Machine shops will provide custom hardware 
used in sensors, auto-attachment mechanisms, and for integration to the 
aircraft. Out of state vendors will supply parts such as lasers and 
computer chips.

Request as named in the report: Brownout Sensor Visualization and 
Hazard Avoidance System.

Requesting Member: Cramer, Aderholt.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. Army RDT&E. Line 31 Aviation Advanced 
Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Polaris Sensor Technologies, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 200 Westside Square, Suite 320, 
Huntsville, AL 35801.

Description of Request: $800,000 to lead a Visualization System for 
helicopters in OIF and OEF. Efforts include development and testing of 
a system of novel sensors and displays for mitigating the dangerous 
brownout phenomenon as helicopters land and takeoff. The system will 
enable the pilot to maintain situational awareness as the helicopter 
enters and maneuvers in brownout. This project builds upon R&D by the 
Aviation and Missile RDEC and for Aviation PEOs. The program will 
develop, integrate, and test the visualization system including the 
sensor, the synthetic scene algorithms, and displays. Testing will 
encompass synthetic fly-throughs and testing at the Blackhawk flight 
simulator facility at Redstone Arsenal as well as human factors studies 
to assess pilot performance improvement. At a funding level of 
$1,000,000, the funds would be spent as follows; adjustments will be 
made to adapt to the final Congressional funding figure. The spend plan 
is approximately $700,000 for salaries of engineers and researchers 
within Polaris, and $100,000 for materials. The national significance 
of the Brownout Visualization System is the improved safety of our 
soldiers, flight crews, and support personnel, especially in 
environments such as Afghanistan and Iraq. In addition, the terrain 
mapping capability will improve intelligence gathering in high OPTEMPO 
regions.

Request as named in the report: Helicopter Reliability and Failure 
Analysis Center.

Requesting Member: Cramer, Aderholt.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. Army RDT&E. Line 8 Aviation Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of Alabama Huntsville.

Address of Requesting Entity: 301 Sparkman Drive, VBRH M-11, 
Huntsville, AL 35899.

Description of Request: $880,000 for a Center which would utilize 
Systems Engineering to help provide an understanding of failure 
mechanisms, failure modes and failure effects, of safety-critical and 
mission-critical parts for the DOD. The funding will be spent as 
follows, and the plan will be adjusted proportionally to adapt to the 
final Congressional dollar amount provided: Labor, $221,000; equipment 
investment, $645,000; travel, $14,000. Work will combine nondestructive 
testing with math modeling and simulation to determine the most 
efficient use of physical tests. The findings of the failure analysis 
will identify ''the condition'' that forms the basis for condition-
based maintenance. This work has great potential to reduce O&M costs 
for aviation, automotive, communications systems while increasing 
systems readiness. This project will help Army Program Managers reduce 
maintenance and logistical support costs and improve systems readiness 
for Army aviation, automotive, and communication weapons systems.

Request as named in the report: Air, Space and Missile Defense 
Architecture Analysis Program (A3P).

Requesting Member: Aderholt, Rogers (AL).

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. Army RDT&E. Line 57 Air and Missile Defense 
Systems Engineering.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Westar Aerospace & Defense Group, 
Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 890 Explorer Boulevard Huntsville, AL 
35806.

Description of Request: $1,200,000 which provides the digital 
modeling and simulation infrastructure for systems to defend high 
priority assets from attack by missiles (cruise and tactical). The 
funding will be used for salaries of engineers and analysts working on 
the project. The future Integrated Air and Missile Defense system will 
provide a lethal net-ready force with an increased span of control and 
a smaller deployment footprint. The smaller footprint will make 
sustainment in the field less expensive. The use of networked battle 
command and improved capabilities for situational


awareness and soldier training will dramatically increase overall 
system effectiveness, survivability and force protection.

Request as named in the report: Advanced Hypersonic Weapon Technology 
Demonstration.

Requesting Member: Everett, Aderholt.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. Army RDT&E. Line 55 Army Missile Defense 
Systems Integration.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Westar Aerospace & Defense Group, 
Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 890 Explorer Boulevard Huntsville, AL 
35806.

Description of Request: $2,400,000 to continue work on the AHW Tech 
Demo which reduces risk and flight test validates critical technologies 
required for prompt global strike. Funds will be used for salaries 
working on the technologies that are a part of this Prompt Global 
Strike support project. AHW would provide a ground-launched forward-
deployed mid-term option to destroy time sensitive/high value targets 
at long distances. Critical technologies include Hypersonic Boost-
Glide, TPS, precision NG&C, and the secure 2-way inflight communication 
required to enable the successful execution of the emerging USSTRATCOM 
mission for prompt global strike.

Request as named in the report: Army Responsive Tactical Space System 
Exerciser (ARTSSE).

Requesting Member: Aderholt, Cramer.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. Army RDT&E. Line 46 Missile and Rocket 
Advanced Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: J2 Technologies Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4801 University Square, Suite 31, 
Huntsville, AL 35816-1815.

Description of Request: $2,000,000 to provide the Hardware in the 
Loop test capability designed to address the need to define performance 
requirements, evaluate and execute ORS (Operationally Responsive Space) 
programs thus ensuring the warfighter's continued access to space. The 
funds will be used as follows: $200,000 to support the Government 
Program Office Operations; $150,000 to purchase lab equipment; with the 
remaining $1,650,000 used to provide software and engineering support 
services, local or state matching funds. The ARTSSE capability, along 
with system flight testing, will fully address the existing need to 
define performance requirements, evaluate, and execute the Army 
Responsive Tactical Space Systems needed to ensure the warfighter's 
continued access to space.

Request as named in the report: Enhanced Rapid Tactical Integration 
and Fielding Systems (ERTIFS).

Requesting Member: Aderholt.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. Army RDT&E. Line 31 Aviation Advanced 
Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: PeopleTec.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4901-D Corporate Drive, Huntsville, AL 
35805.

Description of Request: $1,600,000 to to support the development of 
new software, the purchase and testing of related hardware components, 
and related salaries, to accelerate the delivery of a prototype ''plug-
and-play'' tool set that emulates weapon system functionality. Funding 
would be spent as follows: Approximately 90 percent allocated to 
engineering and related technical salaries for critical work on the 
Condition Based Maintenance efforts; approximately 5 percent allocated 
to material purchases; approximately 5 percent of the funds allocated 
to travel expenses. E-RTIFS will provide considerable cost savings and 
risk reduction for verifying and certifying interoperability of 
aviation systems with Future Force Battle Command Applications. It will 
be interoperable with the E-RTIFS environment and evolving CBM 
architectures currently under development in the ASIF (Aviation Systems 
Integration Facility).

Request as named in the report: Enhanced Rapid Tactical Integration 
and Fielding Systems (ERTIFS). Requesting Member: Aderholt.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. Army RDT&E. Line 31 Aviation Advanced 
Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: PeopleTec.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4901-D Corporate Drive, Huntsville, AL 
35805

Description of Request: $1,600,000 to to support the development of 
new software, the purchase and testing of related hardware components, 
and related salaries, to accelerate the delivery of a prototype ''plug-
and-play'' tool set that emulates weapon system functionality. Funding 
would be spent as follows: Approximately 90 percent allocated to 
engineering and related technical salaries for critical work on the 
Condition Based Maintenance efforts; approximately 5 percent allocated 
to material purchases; approximately 5 percent of the funds allocated 
to travel expenses. E-RTIFS will provide considerable cost savings and 
risk reduction for verifying and certifying interoperability of 
aviation systems with Future Force Battle Command Applications. It will 
be interoperable with the E-RTIFS environment and evolving CBM 
architectures currently under development in the ASIF (Aviation Systems 
Integration Facility).

Request as named in the report: M65 Bismaleimide Carbon Fiber 
Prepreg.

Requesting Member: Aderholt, Bisho (UT), Tauscher.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. Navy RDT&E. Line 16 Force Protection Advanced 
Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Hexcel Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 3300 Mallard Fox Drive, Decatur, AL 
35603.

Description of Request: $1,600,000 to continue the work of 
qualification of M65 Bismaleimide resin for the F-22, F-35, Long Range 
Strike, UAV's and other future programs. Qualification consists of the 
generation of design allowable data that enables engineers to design 
aircraft. Labor and salaries will account for approximately 80 percent 
of the costs; materials 10-20 percent.The currently qualified BMI 
system on the F-22 and F-35 is a very low viscosity resin that exhibits 
a high percentage of resin flow during cure. This high resin flow 
results in excessive variability in the thickness of the cured 
structure. To account for this, parts manufacture either adds excess 
material and machine to final thickness or add shims during the 
assembly process. In some cases, a structure will be assembled and 
disassembled three or more times to achieve the desired tolerances. M65 
is a controlled flow resin that does not exhibit high resin flow during 
cure. The controlled flow nature of M65 BMI resin will allow the 
manufacture of net thickness structures that will not need post 
manufacture, machining, or shimming. Other benefits of the system 
include faster processing rates using Advance Fiber Placement (AFP) and 
suitability for co-curing sandwich structures. The increase in fiber 
placement will reduce the number of man hours for parts manufacture as 
well as reduce the cost for new tooling. There would be significant 
cost reduction benefit from reduced assembly effort, increased 
processing speeds, longer out times, and simplified sandwich processing 
for current and future DOD aircraft programs. In addition, the 
elimination of shimming will result in reduced and consistent 
structural weight. Initial trials of the new M65 resin system have 
shown a 50 percent increase in the speed of part fabrication on the 
existing fiber placement machines. This could easily save $60-80M in 
equipment cost alone, plus it will reduce the cost of the F-35 and F-22 
parts by approximately 40 percent. Additionally, the ability to return 
to the large one piece parts, like the F-35 upper wing skin, will 
create a significant weight savings, which the F-35 program desperately 
needs. Finally, material cost savings would be realized by introducing 
M65 as a competitive, second source. The impact of savings can be 
derived from the F-18 example where 40 percent material cost savings 
were realized. Given the national security significance, it is also 
important to maintain U.S. skills in this process.

Request as named in the report: High Fidelity Virtual Simulation and 
Analysis

Requesting Member: Aderholt.

Bill Number: Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, amendment of the Senate to H.R. 
2638 the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2008.

Account or Provision: Division C--Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2009. Army RDT&E. $1,600,000. Line.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Science Applications International 
Corporation, (SAIC).

Address of Requesting Entity: 6723 Odyssey Drive, Huntsville, AL 
35806

Description of Request: $1,600,000 to leverage concept development/
research across the operational spectrum. Funds will


primarily be used for the salaries of engineers working on this 
project, with 10 percent or less possibly be used for hardware or 
software. The Lab cuts operational support timeline by using 
simulation-based analyses & experiments with man-in-the-loop. The 
System Simulation and Development Directorate (SSDD) of the Aviation 
and Missile Research Development and Engineering Center (AMRDEC) is 
continuing to upgrade the capability of the Advanced Prototyping, 
Engineering and eXperimentation (APEX) Laboratory and is extending the 
application of detailed engineering level simulations across external 
networks in order to maintain the leading edge in modeling and 
simulation technology. The HFVSA is enhancing the SSDD's APEX 
Laboratory's capability to support deployed Soldiers through leveraging 
of the lab's concept development and research across the entire 
spectrum of operational environments. A key linkage to leverage the 
aviation and missile models and simulations is the use of existing Army 
simulation networks connected to Users in the TRADOC community to 
provide engineering level models and simulations in sufficient detail 
to properly examine mission needs. The APEX Lab is working to reduce 
the timeline necessary to support current and future operations using 
distributed simulation-based analyses and experiments with man-in-the-
loop. Future improvements will increasingly be focused on accurately 
representing today's fight while also ensuring that research & 
development efforts supporting current and future weapon systems are 
conducted within accurate and meaningful operational environments 
throughout the life-cycle. The HFVSA program will provide relevant 
solutions to existing and emerging operational challenges. It will 
provide the ability for commanders to prioritize and gain consensus 
through relevant studies and analyses of alternative concept solutions. 
HFVSA increases the level of engineering fidelity available to Battle 
Labs and consolidates engineering resources between simulation 
communities/domains.

Requesting Member: Aderholt.

Bill Number: Senate Amendment to H.R. 2638.

Provision/Account: Division D/Federal Emergency Management Agency.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: ''City of Rainbow City.''

Address of Requesting Entity: 3700 Rainbow Drive, Rainbow City, AL 
35906.

Description of Request: Provide $1 million for urgent storm drainage 
improvements. The project would be one of several phases due to Rainbow 
City having widespread storm drainage issues. CDBG funding through 
ADECA has been applied for in the amount of $500,000 to address 
drainage problems in the City's only low income area. With local funds 
alone, this overall project would be completed at a much slower pace. 
However, the City is prepared to include the 45 percent local match in 
the general budget. The project is not eligible for completion with 
state funds.

Requesting Member: Aderholt.

Bill Number: Senate Amendment to H.R. 2638.

Provision/Account: Division D/Coast Guard.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: ''Warrior Tombigbee Waterway 
Association''.

Address of Requesting Entity: 250 No Water St., Mobile, AL 36652.

Description of Request: Provide $4 million to the U.S. Coast Guard 
for the replacement of the CSX RR Bridge over Mobile River ordered by 
USCG Commandant as authorized under the Truman-Hobbs Act. Pending 
availability of funds, the design of the new bridge would be completed 
in November 2008 and ready for construction in FY 2009. The current 
estimated total cost of the project is $75.5 million; the federal share 
is $69.8 million. To date, the total amount of federal funds 
appropriated to this project has been $48.4 million. The potential $4 
million appropriation would raise the amount of available federal funds 
to $52.4 million; hence an additional $17.4 million would be needed to 
complete the federal funding portion of the project presuming no 
increases in project cost before beginning construction.

The Fourteen Mile Bridge received an average of $5.38M annually since 
fiscal year 2000. Progress is limited by availability of funds, 
inflationary pressures, and the significant increase in the cost of 
steel over the last several years. It is estimated that the 
construction duration for the new bridge will be two years.

Requesting Member: Aderholt.

Bill Number: Senate Amendment to H.R. 2638.

Provision/Account: Division D/Federal Emergency Management Agency.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: ''Center for Domestic Preparedness'' 
(Federal Training Facility).

Address of Requesting Entity: 61 Responder Dr., Anniston, AL 36205.

Description of Request: Provide $62.5 million for the Center for 
Domestic Preparedness which is located in Anniston, Alabama. It is a 
key training Federal facility operated by the Department of Homeland 
Security. It is the only weapons of mass destruction (WMD) training 
facility that provides hands-on training to civilian emergency 
responders which includes live chemical agents. The Center is a leading 
member of the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium. For Fiscal 
Year 2008, Congress provided $62.5 million for the Center for Domestic 
Preparedness. In addition, the 9/11 Recommendations Implementation Act 
of 2007, which the President signed into law on August 3, 2007, 
included language that authorized increases in funding for the Center 
over a period of four years. (Sec. 1204, P.L. 110-53). The House 
Appropriations Committee bill recommended a funding level consistent 
with the president's budget. The Senate Appropriations Committee 
recommended last year's funding level of $62.5 million. This bill 
contains the Senate amount.

Requesting Member: Aderholt.

Bill Number: Senate Amendment to H.R. 2638.

Provision/Account: Division D/Federal Emergency Management Agency.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: ''Jackson County Commission''

Address of Requesting Entity: Courthouse Suite 47, Scottsboro, 
Alabama 35768.

Description of Request: Provide $90,000 to construct a transmitter to 
assist residents receiving notifications to their NOAA weather radios. 
This amount represents the entire cost of the transmitter. The funds 
will be used for the transmitter, coax, antenna, and installation.
