---
---

# CLIMATE CHANGE
## `179c79967460a9335a7bcdada0bd4c5f`
`Mr. BROWN — 14 December 2009`

---


Mr. BROWN. If the Senator will yield, I say thank you. I think that 
made it very clear.

Earlier, the Senator talked about what the tax cuts for the 
wealthiest citizens during the Bush years did to our national debt. He 
mentioned the war in Iraq, the trillion-dollar war in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, not to mention the huge cost it is going to be to continue 
to take care of the men and women who served us courageously with their 
physical and mental injuries from Iraq.



Senator Franken is so familiar with this because of tours he made as 
a private citizen to battle zones, year after year, to talk to our 
troops and entertain our troops. He didn't get a lot of credit for 
that, but he didn't care about the credit for that. He was there, 
always doing that.

One of the things that is pretty interesting, listening to my 
Republican friends on the other side of the aisle talk about this bill 
now, which the Congressional Budget Office says is paid for and more, 
while they continue on their side to talk about the budget deficit, it 
was that group who passed--Senator Sanders and I were both House 
Members at that time and voted against it--passed the Medicare 
Privatization Act, and the people who were on the floor talking to us 
voted for cloture for the Medical Modernization Act. That bill was not 
paid for. That bill was a giveaway to the drug industry and the 
insurance industry. It has added tens and tens of billions of dollars 
to our national debt.

On the one hand, they support these tax cuts that are not paid for, 
they support the Iraq war which was not paid for, and they now want us 
to go into Afghanistan and not pay for it, yet increase the number of 
troops. They continue down this road when we are on this bill doing the 
right thing. Even with our amendment here to eliminate the Cadillac--
the taxing Cadillac plans, we are saying we are going to find another 
way to pay for it. We are not just going to eliminate that cut in 
taxes. We want to, but we are going to pay for it some other way.

I yield for Senator Franken.