---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `17a7b4fcc7b32d22e0d24ff6116d26f3`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 9 May 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Madam Speaker, I would like to welcome my 
colleagues to another addition of the 30-Something's hour. I would like 
to thank the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, for allowing us the 
opportunity to get together and talk not only about some of the most 
important issues that face this hall this week and at this moment but 
also talk a little bit about how these issues are of particular concern 
to people of younger generations in this country.

We are going to be joined today, I know, by Mr. Altmire, who just 
gave a very compelling 5-minute address to the House and, hopefully 
very soon, by Ms. Wasserman Schultz, one of our favorite members of the 
30-Something Group.

Madam Speaker, hopefully we will get to touch on a few different 
topics, but I think we need to touch on at the beginning of this hour 
the subject that really dominates the debate in Washington, D.C., right 
now, that dominates


most of the discussion out in the coffeehouses and pancake breakfasts 
and pasta dinners happening across this land, and that is, what is 
happening in this town? What is happening in Washington, D.C., inside 
the beltway? And that is, why can't government figure out what everyone 
else has figured out across the country, that we need to set a new 
direction when it comes to this country's policy in Iraq.

Now, I am certainly starting to feel that frustration. People thought 
when they weighed in on the national elections in the beginning of 
November of last year that they were actually saying something; that 
when they stood up in record numbers in some parts of this country and 
made courageous decisions district by district to replace long-time 
incumbent Members this Congress with relatively new Members, such as 
myself, such as Mr. Altmire and some 40-odd number of our friends on 
this side of the aisle that became new Members this January, they 
thought that it meant something. They thought that that voice that they 
spoke with in the beginning of November was going to be heard down 
here. And I can tell when I go back to my district, and I just came 
back this last weekend and I have been back every weekend since we have 
been down, that the patience of the American people is starting to wear 
thin. Now, it is not necessarily directed here. I think some people are 
still in some sort of sense of euphoria that we finally have a Congress 
that is listening to the American people again. Their anger is directed 
at the President of the United States. Their anger is directed at an 
administration that just doesn't seem to get it, that refuses every 
step of the way to step up to the plate and have some type of 
accountability for what is happening here, refuses to listen to the 
American people.

And the American people have spoken in the election, and they 
continue to speak today. A CNN poll that came out just a short while 
ago said a majority of Americans, 65 percent, oppose the Iraq war, and 
a full 54 percent disapprove of the President's decision to veto the 
Iraq accountability bill last week. Nearly six in ten Americans, in a 
recent Gallup poll, support setting a firm timetable for withdrawing 
U.S. troops out of Iraq; 61 percent of Americans, in another CNN poll, 
favor a bill that sets benchmarks that the Iraq government must meet to 
show progress that is being made in Iraq; 55 percent of Americans think 
it was the wrong thing for the United States to go to war in the first 
place. That is an amazing number, Madam Speaker; 55 percent of 
Americans, the majority of the Americans, now today believe that it was 
the wrong decision to go into Iraq in the first place.

Before the time of Mr. Altmire and me, the 30-Something Democrats, 
Mr. Ryan and Mr. Meek and Ms. Wasserman Schultz, liked to point out 
third-party verifiers. It is not just our saying it. Things that we 
stand here and say have actually been said time and time again by 
people who know what they are talking about and the American people.

Here is third-party verification: The American people by large 
numbers support not only the actions of this Congress when it comes to 
setting firm benchmarks for the Iraqis to stand up for themselves but 
also to set firm timetables by which we would start to redeploy our 
troops. Now, the American people join a growing hegemony of opinion 
within our foreign policy community. There are very few times when 
Republicans and Democrats outside this hall decide to agree on a course 
forward on something as weighty as the foreign policy issues that 
confront us in the Middle East. But the Iraq Study Group, five 
Democrats, five Republicans, Mr. Altmire, came together and told us, it 
is time to set a new course. It is time to start bringing our troops 
home, start redeploying them to fights that matter. Record numbers of 
retired generals.

Now, it has become kind of de rigueur to see on a daily basis retired 
generals from across America to come out and start to criticize the 
President's policy. This didn't happen before in these numbers. This is 
not the normal course of business for the men and women who have spent 
their lives fighting and leading American troops to then turn around 
after they have left their military service and criticize the very 
government that they have worked for, fought for and bled for all of 
those years. But that is what is happening today because the stakes are 
so high. The American public, bipartisan leaders on foreign policy 
issues and former military leaders are standing up and saying enough is 
enough.



We need to set a new course.

Now, there seems to be a very powerful sound barrier that has been 
built around the White House. Because for as many voices, the 
multitudes of American people, the multitudes of foreign policy 
experts, of retired generals, many of which ended their careers on the 
ground in Iraq, for all of those people throwing the might of their 
collective voices at the White House, a deafening silence.

Madam Speaker, I got the chance to go over and visit our troops in 
Iraq and Afghanistan; and the first thing you're struck by is the 
unbelievable and unconditional bravery that they show this Nation. The 
capability of these forces is almost beyond explanation, and I got the 
chance to come back and talk to the President very briefly about it in 
a visit to the White House.

Those troops know that the situation on the ground has changed 
dramatically, that the fight that began as a battle against the 
autocrat that was Saddam Hussein now has become a civil war. The troops 
know it because they're right in the middle of it.

We asked our military leaders, how much of the fire that is being 
directed at American troops is the result of insurgent forces and al 
Qaeda forces firing at Americans and how much of it is simply a 
sectarian war that we find ourselves in the middle of? And the answer 
was the same no matter who you asked. Ninety percent of the fire 
directed at American forces are Sunni and Shia fighting each other, 
sometimes Shia and Shia fighting each other, that we are caught in the 
middle of.

This President, for some reason, refuses to understand how things 
have changed on the ground in Iraq and how things have changed when it 
comes to the opinion of foreign policy leaders, military leaders and 
the American public.

I think many of us were very proud to stand together, certainly the 
freshman class and as a caucus, to support our leadership's position to 
set a new course; and we were dismayed to see a President who is 
unwilling to work with this Congress. We will take another shot at that 
this week by presenting the President with another alternative on his 
desk once again to set that new direction. And from what we hear today, 
it will be met with the same resounding deafening silence and 
indifference to the will of the American people.

I am so glad to be joined here by one of my great freshman 
colleagues, Mr. Altmire from Pennsylvania, who I think shares with me, 
as new Members, as two young guys who have only spent about 4 or 5 
months down here, that sort of growing sense of frustration when we go 
back to our districts and we hear people who wanted that change feeling 
like they're not getting it here because there is an administration 
that simply won't join that growing unanimity of opinion to set a new 
course.

I would like to yield to my friend from Pennsylvania.