# DEMOCRATS MUST ACT TO AVOID TAX INCREASES
## `17a762c16cc5862e2290ff11725234b3`
`Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky — 22 January 2007`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania. One of the things I do want to share is I appreciate his 
leadership on this critical issue that often gets lost in much of the 
noise that we hear in politics of the moment.

As you and I have shared before, what happened on election day, 
unbeknownst to the vast majority of Americans, is that with the change 
in majority, every working family in the United States of America voted 
themselves, or what was voted for was a tax increase of over $2,000 a 
year for families making between $30,000 and $50,000 a year.

We have been in the business world and worked out there creating 
jobs, and we understand the issues relating to health care. In fact, 
when we look at the bigger picture from the standpoint of job creation, 
I think about my oldest daughter who is in her third year of college 
and has started her practicum now as an education major. She is working 
2 days a week in a local high school in our home county teaching. Where 
is the revenue going to come from to pay for her health insurance, to 
provide for her future as she teaches students in the generation coming 
behind? Ultimately, it is going to be job creation and economic growth 
that comes from policies that will stimulate that and focus on making 
our economy more competitive for the long term.

One of the things that I think you have emphasized is that the 
government is the best steward of money. The American people should be 
able to keep more of their own money, and we have proven time and time 
again, by allowing people to keep more of their own money and creating 
taxpayers instead of raising taxes, we actually get more revenue into 
the Federal Government.

One of the things I would like to read into the record tonight which 
is very important for some of these policy discussions was an editorial 
in the Wall Street Journal regarding surging revenues, and I think it 
is important to note when we create taxpayers and don't raise taxes, 
government will have the revenue that is necessary to function. There 
is a fundamental world view difference between the parties on the role 
of government. Liberal Democrats believe the government needs to be 
paternalistic in telling us how to run our lives to make these 
decisions.

The reality is that by allowing people to keep more of their own 
money, which is a bedrock Republican principle, we will make sure that 
people can make the decision on the spot, they understand the impact of 
that.

I look back at the time when I started my business. I look back on 
the decisions we had to make, and we understood everything in terms of 
the cost that we had, the obligations that we had to our employees, the 
commitments that we made to each other to keep that money, moving 
forward to keep us employed to strengthen the business. At the same 
time, that was when President Clinton in 1993, our first full year in 
business, allowed us to make an investment in the government that 
dramatically increased the taxes not for me and the company, but for 
every member of our team. I think about all of those literally hundreds 
of thousands of dollars over the following decade. Had those been 
allowed to stay there, that would not have been simply revenue that the 
government lost, it would have been more employees, more people who 
would have been out there generating revenue and creating jobs and 
helping to keep our economy strong.

This editorial that appeared in the Wall Street Journal on January 17 
highlights this and talks about the surging of revenues. What we need 
to do from the standpoint of Congress is to empower people, not to 
constrain them.

It says, ''The myth persists in some media circles that the Federal 
budget deficiency is surging or ballooning or something terrible, all 
of which is served up as ammunition for those in Congress who want a 
tax increase.''

As an aside, I make a parenthetical statement and say we are now a 
little over 1,400 days away from a very, very large tax increase that 
will happen unless Congress takes action.

''At the risk of being drummed out of the guild, we thought you'd 
rather have the real story.

''The deficit has in fact declined by some $165 billion over the last 
2 fiscal years, and according to the most recent data has continued to 
fall in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. The latest Treasury estimates 
for January show that tax receipts in December were $18 billion higher 
than a year earlier, helping to boost the budget surplus for the month 
to $40 billion, up from $11 billion a year ago. December is typically a 
good month for revenues due to year-end tax payments.

''Meanwhile, for the first 3 months of fiscal 2007 through December, 
revenues climbed 8.1 percent, building on double-digit revenue 
increases in the previous 2 years. Corporate income taxes were up a 
remarkable 22.2 percent in the first fiscal quarter, showing that the 
government continues to grab a nice chunk of rising business profits 
that so many of our politicians like to deplore. Individual income 
taxes rose 8.8 percent, thanks to strong wage and salary growth. Much 
of this revenue comes from 'the rich,' believe it or not.

''In the most surprising budget news, Federal spending was nearly 
flat in the first fiscal quarter. This was despite a 22.1 percent 
increase in Medicare spending due largely to the new prescription drug 
benefit, and a 10.7 percent increase in defense spending. Those 
increases were offset by lower spending for flood insurance and 
disaster assistance compared with the peaks of post-Katrina payments a 
year ago. So the first quarter deficit was $85 billion, down sharply 
from $119 billion a year earlier.

''All in all, despite huge outlays for wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
the Nation's fiscal picture is brightening. We hate to ruin the press 
corps's day with such cheerful news, but there it is.''

That article shows clearly this contrast between the perception that 
is created with the politics of fear, the politics of class warfare, 
and what I would like to call the politics of reality and truth. The 
one thing that we need to remember is the ultimate key to the economic 
success to our children and their children in the future is not going 
to be big government, it is not going to be large solutions and 
increases in taxes, taking away that extra benefit that working 
families have, but it is going to be allowing them to keep more of 
their own money.

I think it is critical that we do this. It is critical to funding 
many of the programs that we do, be it defense, be it education, 
ultimately comes from somebody who has a job who is not a government 
employee, somebody out there in the economy creating a job to make that 
difference and provide that revenue by adding that value that funds all 
of the critical infrastructure.

Our goal must be to create taxpayers, not raise new taxes. And I 
think the one thing that we see, and it is one thing that I appreciate 
my colleague from Pennsylvania taking great leadership on this issue, 
is to shine a light of truth onto the fact that the Democrats are going 
to raise taxes. They are committed to that. We are a little over 1,400 
days away from that taking place


if Congress does not act, and it is critical that we act to preserve 
this one thing that has generated so much revenue for the government 
that allows us to bring the deficit down and control spending and 
ultimately provide a future for our children.