---
---

# SGT. JASON HARKINS POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `17ba03b7c965165250f5483463fb8029`
`Ms. FOXX — 28 February 2008`

---


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, born in Fort Campbell, Kentucky on September 
29, 1981, SGT Jason Harkins was a 1999 graduate of Habersham Central 
High School. His commitment to military service began at an early age. 
When he was a young boy, he used to run around with toy guns and swords 
practicing to become the Army man his father was.

Sergeant Campbell served three years in the U.S. Army Reserve and was 
currently serving with the Striker Brigade, Second Infantry Division 
based out of Fort Lewis, Washington. He never wanted to be called a 
hero because he believed he was just an ordinary person doing 
extraordinary things. Campbell however, was a hero. He proved he was a 
hero when he survived a roadside bomb during his first tour in Iraq. He 
proved he was a hero when he rescued a wounded soldier while they were 
under fire during his second tour.

And sadly, he proved he was a hero on May 6, 2007, when he and five 
other men in his platoon were killed when a makeshift bomb exploded 
near their vehicle. Sergeant Harkins was only 25 years old.

His decorations include the Bronze Star of valor and the Purple 
Heart.

Sergeant Harkins leaves behind a large family and a wife who will 
always remember him as a ''true country boy'' who found the best in 
every situation and could always make those around him smile.

Let us pay our respects to Sergeant Jason Harkins and remember his 
commitment to serving this Nation by naming the post office located at 
116 Helen Highway in Fort Lewis, Washington, in his honor.