# EXPRESSING SORROW OF THE HOUSE AT THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE JUANITA
## `17bba39bc1c4ca7e50a0565e3adbfa90`
`Mr. SHULER — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. SHULER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the extraordinary 
life of Congresswoman Juanita Millender-McDonald. I was saddened to 
learn of her passing after her courageous battle with cancer, and my 
thoughts and prayers are with her husband, James McDonald, Jr., their 
five children and five grandchildren--as well as the people of the 37th 
district of California.

Congresswoman Millender-McDonald served this Congress honorably for 
over five terms, during which time she was a tireless advocate for 
underserved communities in the U.S. and around the globe. Among her 
many accomplishments, Congresswoman Millender-McDonald secured critical 
funding for counseling services for our servicemen and women returning 
from Iraq and Afghanistan, and was instrumental in the passage of 
important AIDS-prevention programs in Africa. The Congresswoman was 
also a staunch advocate for the rights of women, minorities, children, 
and the elderly.

Congresswoman Millender-McDonald will also be remembered as a 
preeminent leader and trailblazer. She was the first-ever African-
American or woman to chair the Committee on House Administration where 
she worked hard to ensure that all Americans would be guaranteed their 
rights at the voting booth. As the Democratic Chair of the 
Congressional Caucus for Women's Issues, Congresswoman Millender-
McDonald convened groundbreaking meetings with then-UN Secretary-
General Kofi Annan to discuss global poverty programs, as well as the 
New York Stock Exchange to find ways to empower women in the workplace.

Madam Speaker, Congresswoman Millender-McDonald led an exemplary life 
of public service that included her most recent position as the ''Mayor 
of Capitol Hill''. The House community lost a true friend. May God rest 
her soul.
