---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `17c0e6e0a8b25695b6bdc7154d5cbe29`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 14 December 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I thank the Senator from Michigan and 
the Senator from Virginia for their tremendous work on this 
legislation.

I am glad we are considering this bill. And I have come to the floor 
today to highlight a section of this legislation that's especially 
important to me because it will make a huge difference in the lives of 
our servicemembers and veterans--the Wounded Warriors Act.

The Wounded Warriors Act has already passed the Senate once on its 
own. To ensure it passed Congress this year, it was added to this 
Defense bill, too. It is taken longer than I had hoped to get to this 
point. But today, I'm optimistic that we can pass this bill, and get 
these much-needed improvements to our troops and our veterans soon. 
This is a major step toward real change.

I want to talk about how we got to this point, and why this bill is 
so necessary. This February, the Washington Post stunned us all with a 
series of articles on the squalid conditions some of our servicemembers 
were living in at Walter Reed Army Medical Center.

The articles described infestations of mice and cockroaches in some 
Walter Reed facilities. They described moldy walls, and broken ceilings 
in the rooms servicemembers were living in while they waited to get 
care. And the articles described how many of our servicemembers and 
their families feel trapped in a bureaucratic ''Catch-22,'' while they 
try for months to work out their disability ratings.

I am proud that Democrats led a bipartisan effort in the Senate to 
address these problems aggressively. The Wounded Warriors legislation 
we have now is the result of a historic partnership between two of our 
committees--the Veterans' Affairs Committee,


chaired by Senator Akaka, and the Armed Services Committee, chaired by 
Senator Levin. I want to thank both Senators for their leadership on 
this.

Together, we convened hearings, reached across the aisle, and crafted 
legislation that will make sure that the men and women who have served 
our country so honorably get the care they deserve when they come home.

The more we dug for information, the more we learned about the huge 
problems we need to address. Last winter, when I visited Walter Reed 
with our majority leader and other members of the Leadership team, the 
servicemembers we talked to weren't just frustrated with their living 
conditions. They had reached the end of their patience trying to 
navigate a disability system, which made absolutely no sense to them--
or to us.

And the problem was not limited to servicemembers at Walter Reed. I 
went home and met with servicemembers in medical hold in Washington 
State--more than 200 people showed up. They, too, were angry and 
frustrated with their situation. They told me story after story about 
how they had to struggle to get their disability ratings and fight for 
the care they needed.

It was clear from these meetings that the Defense Department and the 
VA don't have a joint strategy for caring for servicemembers and 
veterans, and that they use inconsistent ratings for disabilities. 
Their paperwork doesn't even match. How you're rated as disabled by the 
military is completely different than how you're rated by the VA.

The result is that our servicemembers get caught in the middle. They 
get lost in the bureaucracy, while trying to get the treatment they 
need to recover. Too often, our injured servicemembers are the ones 
trying to figure out how to work out the transition. It's frustrating, 
and it's completely unacceptable.

Other servicemembers told us that they have had to struggle to get 
the right diagnosis for their injuries. Our military has long known 
about the mental wounds that can be caused by war. But many 
servicemembers still said they got little or no help to cope with 
mental illness.

I talked to men and women who said they knew something was wrong. 
They felt different. And they forgot little things--basic things. They 
described not being able to find their keys after they put them down. 
They couldn't remember their kids' birthdays. They couldn't even 
remember what they'd done the year--or even the day--before.

One young man from a rural community in my home State of Washington 
said he came home and felt isolated, unable to talk to his childhood 
friends. He was 22, but he couldn't remember what he'd learned in 
school just a few years ago. He said he didn't know who he was any 
more, and he eventually tried to take his own life.

That young man had a traumatic brain injury. He had been around not 
one--not five--not 20--but more than 100 explosions while he was on the 
ground in Iraq. Even so, he wasn't screened for TBI when he was 
discharged. No one asked how he was doing. And no one followed up when 
he got home to ask how he was adjusting to civilian life.

This should not happen to any of our servicemembers who have served 
us honorably. Yet that young man's experience is all too common.

As a result of our investigation, Democrats said, ''No more.'' It's 
simply unacceptable that after fighting for our country, our 
servicemembers have had to return and fight against our government for 
the care they deserve.

By passing the Wounded Warriors Act, we are moving aggressively to 
make sure that these men and women are treated well when they come 
home. The Wounded Warriors Act lays out a clear path directing the 
Defense Department and the VA to address shortfalls in the care of our 
wounded warriors.

It requires the Defense Department and VA to work together to develop 
a comprehensive plan to prevent, treat and diagnose TBI and PTSD. It 
creates DOD centers of excellence for TBI and PTSD to improve our 
understanding of these devastating injuries. If directs the two 
agencies to develop a joint electronic health record so that critical 
medical files aren't lost as our wounded troops move from battlefield 
doctors, to medicals holds, and on to the VA.

The act requires the military and the VA to work together on 
disability ratings. This is the first step toward bridging the gap 
between the VA and the Defense Department. And it requires the military 
to adopt the VA presumption that a disease or an injury is service-
connected when our heroes--who were healthy prior to service--have 
spent 6 months or more on active duty.


The bill also addresses many of the horrifying conditions that our 
troops found themselves in at Walter Reed and other facilities. It 
ensures our servicemembers get adequate severance pay. And it can 
provide medical care for the families of recovering servicemembers.

In addition to the Wounded Warriors Act, the Defense Authorization 
bill includes important provisions passed by the Senate Veterans' 
Affairs Committee aimed at improving care for servicemembers once they 
reach the VA system.

As you know, my colleagues on the Committee and I have worked hard to 
get these improvements in place, so I want to take a moment to mention 
them as well.

Under this bill we will require that an initial mental health 
evaluation be-provided to veterans or returning servicemembers no more 
than 30 days after they ask for one. We will extend the period of 
eligibility for VA health care for combat veterans of the Persian Gulf 
War and future conflicts. That time period will increase from 2 years 
to 5 years after discharge or release. And we'll ensure improvements to 
the quality of care for veterans with TBI by requiring age-appropriate 
nursing care, and plans to help servicemembers recover and transition 
back into civilian life.

While this bill is an important step toward providing our wounded 
warriors with the level of care they deserve and have earned, it's by 
no means the last step. Much work remains to be done by the DOD and the 
VA. We in Congress will have to keep a close watch to make sure the 
Defense Department and the VA are meeting the goals we've set out here.

And as a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee and the 
Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I can assure you that I will be 
doing just that.

I voted against going to war in Iraq. But I've said consistently that 
no matter how you feel about the war, we have an obligation as leaders 
to make sure that our men and women who fight for us get the care they 
deserve. I'm particularly proud of the way Democrats moved to address 
the problems facing our returning servicemembers, which clearly wasn't 
a priority for the Bush Administration.

Democrats said: ''Not on our watch. Not any more.''

The Wounded Warrior bill provides real solutions for our troops and 
veterans from the battlefield to the VA and everywhere in between. Our 
servicemembers have always answered the call of duty, but for too long, 
our Government has not answered theirs. I'm proud to say those days are 
over. This bill is part of that commitment. Let's pass it today, so we 
can get started on these improvements and provide the kind of care our 
servicemembers and veterans deserve. As I said at the beginning of this 
speech, this is a major step toward real change for our troops.











 Nomination of General James Peake


While I have the floor, Madam President, I also want to take a minute 
to say a few words about the nomination of GEN James Peake to be the 
next Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs.

On Thursday, I joined with my colleagues on the committee and voted 
in favor of his nomination. As we all know, there has been a vacuum at 
the head of the VA for years now, and for the reasons I have already 
laid out today, we need someone strong to lead this agency as we work 
to change course there. I do not think we ought to dwell on the 
mistakes of the past. I believe we do have to learn from them.

At his confirmation hearing, General Peake pledged to stand up and 
put the needs of veterans above the political needs of the White House. 
He can guarantee that I am going to hold him to his word because we owe 
our troops nothing less.



After fighting for their country, too many have had to fight against 
their Government to get the care and benefits they have earned. They 
have had to contend with bureaucratic ineptitude, a massive claims 
backlog, and wait times--just to name a few of the many problems at the 
VA.

While I believe we shouldn't dwell on the mistakes of the past, I 
believe we must learn from them. And I expect General Peake to learn 
from the VA's past failures.

The veterans of this country deserve a Secretary who is an honest and 
independent advocate for them--not an apologist for failed 
administration policies. Yet one of the biggest mistakes made by 
General Peake's predecessor was his blind political allegiance to the 
President--at the expense of the veterans he was supposed to serve.

In his confirmation hearing, General Peake pledged to stand up for 
the needs of veterans above the political needs of the White House. As 
a senior member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee and the 
MilCon-VA Appropriations Subcommittee, he can guarantee that I will 
hold him to his word.

General Peake will be taking the reins at a critical time in the 
agency's history. Many challenges lie in his path--from the enormous 
task of streamlining and improving the military and veterans disability 
systems, to implementing a joint electronic medical record; and from 
reducing wait times for benefits, to caring for the large number of 
returning veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic 
brain injury.

These challenges require innovative solutions. They require a 
Secretary who will roll up his sleeves and get to work. And they 
require strong leadership. It will require action. And it will require 
results. General Peake promised to do just that. We must all hold him 
accountable--I know I will. If he fails to change the direction of this 
agency, he will have to answer for it.

But I also pledge to work with him to get this right and put our 
veterans first. We have a true opportunity to change course at the VA. 
But the clock is ticking. With our troops fighting overseas and older 
veterans accessing the VA in greater numbers, we are facing 
unprecedented challenges.

As they say at the VA in my home State, ''business as usual'' isn't 
an option. And I am hopeful that General Peake won't accept ''business 
as usual'' either. I am hopeful that he will make sure we keep our 
promises to the heroes who risked everything for our safety because we 
owe them nothing less.

Madam President, I again thank the Senator from Michigan and the 
Senator from Virginia for their tremendous leadership in making sure 
our troops get all they need and, in particular, for the Wounded 
Warriors Act, which will be historic when it gets passed and signed 
into law and we can turn around to the men and women who served us so 
well and say: We are working with you, not against you.

Madam President, I yield the floor.