# HONORING SENTINELS OF FREEDOM
## `17d213be4c0b889488f5cd19c79c607f`
`Mr. McNERNEY — 2 November 2009`

---


Mr. McNERNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 461, a 
resolution honoring the Sentinels of Freedom, which passed this 
afternoon by a unanimous vote when I was coming here this afternoon on 
the airplane.

Our Nation's veterans made tremendous sacrifices in defending our 
great Nation, and they deserve the best treatment upon returning home. 
Whether it is through education, employment, or health care, no veteran 
should fall through the cracks.

The Sentinels of Freedom, an organization based in San Ramon and 
Danville, California, provides opportunities to veterans returning from 
Iraq and Afghanistan and has demonstrated a commitment to America's 
heroes that we should all emulate. The Sentinels of Freedom Scholarship 
Foundation awards 4-year scholarships to severely injured veterans who 
began their service on or after September 11, 2001.

The program provides veterans with community support and mentoring, 
help with job placement, financial assistance for rent or mortgages, 
and continuing educational opportunities. The Sentinels of Freedom has 
helped dozens of veterans in States across the country, including 
California, Texas, Colorado, and Wisconsin.

Many military personnel fighting in Operation Iraqi Freedom and 
Operation Enduring Freedom are returning home with serious injuries 
that hamper their transition from military to civilian life. It's 
critical that we have programs in place that will help these veterans 
receive a quality education, secure a job, stay in their home, and lead 
a fulfilling life. I have seen firsthand the exceptional work and 
dedication of the Sentinels of Freedom and the way this organization 
helps to improve the lives of veterans. This group is a true leader in 
the community and deserves our highest respect.

I want to thank my colleagues for helping me to recognize and honor 
the outstanding work the Sentinels of Freedom have performed on behalf 
of our Nation's veterans.
