---
---

# NATIONAL VETERANS HISTORY PROJECT WEEK
## `17dc9f4a2180342f316b1b477b6b3b9e`
`Mr. BOOZMAN — 2 November 2009`

---


Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise in support of H. Res. 866, a resolution expressing support for 
the designation of a National Veterans History Project Week to 
encourage public participation in a nationwide project that collects 
and preserves the stories of the men and women who served our Nation at 
times of war and conflict.

The National Veterans History Project was created by P.L. 106-380, 
which was signed into law by President Clinton on October 27, 2000. It 
is housed in the American Folklife Center of the Library of Congress 
and contains firsthand accounts of veterans from every armed service 
conflict since World War I. The online database contains records of 
over 70,000 veterans and will continue to be a wonderful resource to 
inform and inspire all Americans for generations to come.

In reviewing this collection of information on veterans, you can find 
the stories in the collection of our only remaining American veteran of 
World War I, Frank Buckles. His digital collection contains both video 
and audio


records of his time serving as a corporal in World War I. We also have 
stories from the most current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan in the 
collection.

To have this personal record is so important to the history and 
nature of our country as it provides our Nation with the unique 
perspective of what it's like serving on the ground, a point of view 
often lost in the history books. Mr. Speaker, it is by preserving these 
stories and records that the past is shared with the future and lessons 
can be learned.

I highly encourage all veterans to participate in the Veterans 
History Project and support this resolution for the designation of 
National Veterans History Project Week to encourage public 
participation in this nationwide collection of stories.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank my colleagues, Mr. Kind of 
Wisconsin and Mr. Wamp of Tennessee, for introducing this bipartisan 
legislation, and Chairman Filner and Ranking Member Buyer for moving 
the bill so quickly to the floor for consideration.

I urge all of my colleagues to support H. Res. 866.

I yield back the balance of my time.
















 General Leave
