---
---

# None
## `17df2c3a65b69f44af7dce9a1b22e123`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Thank you, Madam Speaker. I appreciate being 
recognized to address you here on the floor of the House of 
Representatives.

Listening to the dialogue of the gentlemen in the previous hour, I 
generally have a pattern where I will discuss a bit of different 
viewpoints.

And returning to that subject matter, I understand their concern for 
military personnel and their families, for the lives and the health of 
all of our brave military personnel. In fact, I sympathize and support 
our military personnel and their families and the entire support 
network that is there. I've been six times to Iraq, twice to 
Afghanistan; and I meet with our military personnel as often as I 
possibly can. And, yes, like every congressional district--and perhaps 
every congressional district--we've lost soldiers and we've lost airmen 
and we've lost marines and we've lost sailors. And that has been the 
case, and it's ever been thus.

So as I listened to the gentlemen who argue that we should have a 
debate on the floor, it seems as though they come with a common purpose 
of arguing that we should not be in Afghanistan.

I would make the point, Madam Speaker, that they made the same 
argument when we were in Iraq. And the points that they made then were 
very similar to the points that are being made now and that is the 
position that it's not worth the price. It is a legitimate position to 
discuss, but I believe it is the one to have that debate before we 
engage in a war rather than when we're in the floor of it because the 
dialogue from the floor of this House echoes to our enemies; and they 
begin to wonder whether the Americans have the resolve to persevere and 
bring about the sustained effort that's necessary in order to win a 
war, especially a war that is protracted with an amorphous enemy that 
is scattered throughout the mountains that has sometimes the support of 
the network.

The Taliban is our enemy and al Qaeda is our enemy, and there are 
another six or seven organizations in that part of the world who are 
defined organizations that are our enemies, Madam Speaker.

But the position taken by these Members back during the Iraq war was 
to pull out, pull out at all costs, pull out immediately. Simply leave 
a rear guard to try to avoid being shot in the back as our troops 
loaded out of Iraq. Let it collapse, if that's what it would be. But 
they argued it wasn't worth the price--at least some of them, and I 
believe all of them, that were on the floor taking this position 
tonight.

And yet in spite of the naysayers, in spite of the distraction, in 
spite of the 45 votes that were brought to the floor of this Congress 
and led by the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, those votes were 
designed to undermine, unfund, and to damage the resolve of our troops. 
Those votes that came to this floor--and I have a collected Excel 
spreadsheet that links to each one of those resolutions, each one of 
those votes, 45 votes and debates on the floor of this House--these 
Members can't argue that we didn't have the debate on Iraq. It was 
pushed by the Speaker of the House. And whatever the motives, it 
demoralized our troops and encouraged our enemies.

And the result of those resolutions and different acts that were 
brought to


this floor was that this Congress stuck together. This Congress didn't 
crack. We stood with our military; we stood with our troops. We're at a 
time of war. And a decision was made, and this Congress made the 
decision to go into Iraq and to provide for the authority for the 
President of the United States to command the military forces to do 
what was necessary to protect the American people. We were operating 
off the best information we had at the time. That's what any nation 
does at any time in any crisis. And I think at any time in history if 
there has been a question whether it was a right decision, there's 
always the question of what was the information they had to work with 
at the time.

Regardless, the situation remains this: the people that were here on 
the floor that would like to pull us out of Afghanistan immediately are 
the ones who also predominantly were for pulling out of Iraq 
immediately. We know that the President of the United States, the 
current Commander in Chief, as a candidate for the Presidency, argued 
that Bush had taken his eye off the ball, that the ball was Afghanistan 
and the target was Osama bin Laden and that he would bring Osama bin 
Laden to justice. Even denigrated Senator John McCain for saying he 
would follow Osama bin Laden to the gates of hell if necessary, but not 
being willing to take on some of the tasks that the President thought 
should be taken on.

And so our current President, our current Commander in Chief, as a 
candidate and United States Senator, continually made the speech that 
President Bush had taken his eye off the ball, if the ball was Osama 
bin Laden and Afghanistan, and that we should immediately pull all of 
our troops out of Iraq without regard to those consequences, and 
diminished the calamity that almost certainly would have ensued.

And that calamity, just to paint that picture again, Madam Speaker, 
for the American people's benefit, the calamity that was pending in 
2005, 2006, especially early 2007 and on into 2008, would have likely 
been this scenario: if we'd pulled out, the Kurds would have likely 
declared independence and found themselves in a two-front war: Iran on 
one side that had been throughout those years lobbing artillery rounds 
into Kurdistan, and war with the Turks on the west side who have gone 
in and done several raids against the Kurds there in the last few 
years.

So there's that open-arm conflict that exists on the east and west 
border of Kurdistan that likely would have swallowed up the Kurds that 
would not have had the help of the United States if we had pulled out 
of Iraq, and neither would they have had the help from Iraq because the 
Iraqis themselves were having significant difficulty in providing 
security for their own people.

Other problems that we had were militia groups that were warring 
against each other, Sunnis and Shias and the power vacuum that brought 
about this violence. There were neighborhoods that were purged and 
taken back over again. And we had, if not forgotten, the Mahdi militia 
and the other militias that had emerged within Iraq that were in the 
process of enforcement, and some might say ethnic cleansing and 
sectarian violence.

And al Qaeda was entrenched in the al Anbar province. Al Qaeda ruled 
al Anbar province. Al Anbar province was so bad that I could not go 
there during that period of time throughout all of 2006 and probably 
well before then. The cities of Ramadi and Fallujah had been fought 
over, and they needed to be fought over again before they could be 
liberated for the Iraqi people to take control of.

That was the scenario. And not only that, the great threat of the 
Iranians and their involvement and engagement in subversive activities 
across their border into Iraq was all part of this competition that 
was almost--almost--a military, political, economic conundrum.


And you have most of the oil in Iraq is over against the Straits--
very, very close to the oil that's in Iran. And then in the south where 
you had the Shias, the Shias had some affinity to the Iranian Shias.

So that entire scenario, the worst-case scenario that I can paint for 
this--and it's the one that actually looked like it was the most likely 
it would be if the United States had pulled out of Iraq and an 
instantaneous sectarian violence situation where the Shias and the 
Sunnis would go at each other in an unrestrained way, where al Qaeda 
would have continued to maintain al Anbar province and expand their 
hold and a base camp for the world, the predictions--and they still 
remain true--that there are significant oil reserves in al Anbar 
province that would have been the wealth of that oil that could have 
gone into the pockets and the treasure chest of al Qaeda and funded 
their global operations.

The only significant refinery--I will say it this way--the most 
significant refinery in all of northern Iraq is in al Anbar province 
where Saddam put it so he could bring the Kurdish oil down and control 
the oil from Kurdistan for political reasons. That could have all been 
an al Qaeda base camp with lots of oil to fund it.

And it could have been the Shias and the Sunnis and the remaining 
Shias at battle with each other, and the Iranians making common cause 
with the Shias and taking over the oil fields in the south of Iraq 
where about 70 percent of the oil is and having control of both sides 
of the Straits of Hormuz and control of a lot more of the oil in the 
world, and the ability to shut off around 40 percent of the world's oil 
while the Kurds find themselves in a two-front war having declared 
independence.

That's just part of what would have happened if we had pulled out of 
Iraq, Madam Speaker. That was the advice of the gentlemen on the floor 
that argue against our involvement in Afghanistan.

And today, today, due to a brave and difficult decision made by our 
then-Commander in Chief, George W. Bush, who ordered the surge, that 
the courageous notion of investing American might and preserving a 
victory that may have been achieved in March and April and May 
primarily in 2003 that needed to be reachieved in a number of the 
cities that were taken over by al Qaeda and other forces that were 
contrary and in opposition to the United States, that order for the 
surge and noble bravery of our military, of all branches of service, 
came together in Iraq and provided the kind of security that has 
allowed the Iraqis to develop their own security forces.

And those forces now exceed--by the time--if you talk all of their 
security forces, they meet and exceed a number in the area of 600,000 
that are providing for the safety of the Iraqi people.

The stability in Iraq today? Even though there are flareups of 
violence and flareups of suicide bombs that take place from time to 
time, there is a control of that country that has been taken over by 
the Iraqi people exactly within the design of President Bush--but not 
something that the gentlemen that spoke ahead of me could actually 
admit to, I don't believe, the level of success in Iraq.

I did introduce a resolution in February of this year that declares 
that we have achieved a definable victory in Iraq, and it defines the 
victory and it lays out the milestones along the way. A definable 
victory and by measure of a civil government that can provide for 
safety and security for its people at a level significantly higher than 
it was. American casualties that went down to the point of where it was 
as likely that we would lose an American in Iraq due to an accident as 
to the enemy.

The civilian government establishments there, the distribution of the 
oil revenue, the list of accomplishments ratifying a Constitution far 
faster than we were able to do so in the United States when we 
established our first Constitution. The drafting and the writing and 
the passage and the ratification process in its entirety were quicker 
in Iraq than it was in the United States of America.

So of all of the milestones, of all of the benchmarks that were 
imposed by this Congress on the Iraqi Government and the Iraqi people 
and the responsibility of our President Bush at the time and the 
Commander in Chief of our military and our military personnel, of the 
18 benchmarks, 17 of the 18 benchmarks--even as of last February--had 
been wholly or substantially achieved. And the 18th benchmark was an 
amorphous benchmark that is moving in that direction. What matters is 
how you define it.

That's what happened. We've achieved a definable victory in Iraq,


and that accomplishment was done not because of people who wanted to 
pull out, that didn't have the resolve, that didn't understand the 
price that America pays down the line for lack of resolve in this 
moment of history.

I would use an example, Madam Speaker, and that would be on June 11 
of 2004, I was sitting in a hotel room in Kuwait City waiting to go 
into Iraq the next morning. And I was watching Al-Jazeera TV. And on 
Al-Jazeera TV, June 11, 2004, with the English closed-caption, Moqtada 
al-Sadr came on--the head of the Mahdi militia who gave us so much 
trouble. And he said--judging by the closed caption that I read, and 
presumably it was in Arabic--he said, If we continue attacking 
Americans, they will leave Iraq the same way they left Vietnam, the 
same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left Mogadishu. He was 
predicting that the Americans would not have the resolve to achieve a 
victory in Iraq.

And had that been the case, if the President of the United States, if 
the balance of the Republicans in this Congress and some of the 
national security Democrats had not had resolve, today we would be 
seeing the calamity in Iraq that I have just laid out as the likely 
scenario. And we would also be listening to Osama bin Laden and perhaps 
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed before a courtroom in New York say, Well, the 
Americans left Vietnam, and they left Lebanon, they left Mogadishu, and 
they pulled out of Iraq. Americans don't have resolve. All it takes to 
defeat American might is persistence and perseverance and a willingness 
to fight a war of attrition and accept the casualties. And if you do 
that long enough, Americans will lose their patience and will lose 
their will. That was the message that Moqtada al-Sadr got. He said it 
directly into Al-Jazeera TV, June 11, 2004. It was the message that 
Osama bin Laden got when he was inspired to attack the United States 
because he didn't believe that we had the resolve to strike back or the 
resolve to keep the pressure on.



And because America sent a weak message--Vietnam, Lebanon, 
Mogadishu--it inspired our enemies to take us on and challenge us 
because if they see a sign of weakness, that is where they would 
attack.

The Japanese didn't think that America had that kind of resolve when 
they attacked us on December 7, 1941. We did show the resolve when we 
were attacked, and we showed the resolve after September 11, 2001, and 
we need to show the resolve in Afghanistan, although it is a much more 
difficult nut to crack. To that extent, I will give my colleagues in 
the previous hour their due.

My first trip to Afghanistan, it was in the middle of the most 
difficult times in Iraq, when most didn't see a way out that would be 
victorious in Iraq. I came back and said, We will be in Afghanistan a 
lot longer than we will be in Iraq because Afghanistan is a lot closer 
to the Stone Age than Iraq. They don't have the transportation. They 
don't have the infrastructure. They don't have a modern education 
system. They are living closer to the Stone Age. There is only one 
highway that transfers assets across the country, and that is a highway 
that we turned into a paved highway. Other than that, it was a trail.

The Afghanis, many of them live up in valleys in the mountain, and 
that zone in a particular valley is where the tribe is. So it is much 
more difficult to maintain security in a country that has been at war 
and has been able to reject or eject any of its conquerors.

The difference is that Americans are not invaders and occupiers. We 
are liberators. Where we have gone, we have liberated people. And 
wherever American soldiers have gone, there has been a tremendous 
blessing that is left in the aftermath, especially if we stay and pass 
along American values.

Some few years ago, I was at a hotel here in downtown Washington, 
D.C., to hear a speech from President Arroyo of the Philippines, and I 
guess this was about 2004. She said, Thank you, America. Thank you for 
sending the Marine Corps to our islands in 1898, thank you for freeing 
and liberating us. Thank you for sending your priests and pastors who 
taught us your faith. Thank you for sending us 10,000 American 
teachers--and she had a Filipino name for them which I missed--and the 
American teachers and the priests and pastors and the soldiers.

She forgot to mention actually the Army, she said marines, they 
taught us the American way of life. You taught us the English language. 
You taught us the values, and I will summarize it in my words, not 
hers, the values of Western civilization. She said today, 1.6 million 
Filipinos leave the islands to work wherever in the world they want to 
go, and they send a lot of their money back to the Philippines, 
representing, and she gave the number, but a high percentage of the 
gross domestic product of the Philippines.

The benefit of having the American civilization arrive in the 
Philippines is evident more than 100 years later, and we are thanked 
for it by the President of the Philippines.

And now we look around the world and we see, is Japan better off or 
worse off in the aftermath of Imperial Japan, in the aftermath of 
Hiroshima and Nagasaki? Is Japan better off because the Americans went 
into Japan and helped set up a free market capitalistic system, a 
system of representative government that is no longer run by the 
Emperor that our Commander in Chief gave a 90-degree bow before a 
couple of days ago?

Madam Speaker, I wasn't particularly alarmed when I heard that the 
President had bowed to the Emperor of Japan until I saw the videotape 
of the President of the United States bowing 90 degrees. It was almost 
a genuflection before the Emperor of Japan, so far different than it 
was before the ceremonies of surrender on the USS Missouri. And never 
in the history of the country do we have the record of a President of 
the United States bowing before any foreign leader, and no President of 
the United States should ever bow before another foreign leader. And 
yet we have seen this happen and we have seen this unfold around the 
country, around the world, a global tour of contrition that has 
diminished the power and the influence of the United States.

Some Nation has to be the superpower in the world. We should have 
adjusted to this fairly easily. It was a struggle that we were involved 
in. At the beginning of the Cold War, and you can pick your date on 
when that starts. Was it the blockade that brought about the Berlin 
Airlift? Was it the 1948 speech at Fulton, Missouri, when Winston 
Churchill laid out the identification of the Cold War when he said an 
Iron Curtain has descended across Europe? But some place between 1945 
and 1948, the Cold War began.

The Russians and the East Germans began building their Berlin Wall in 
1961, and that wall stood until November 9, 1989. That period of time 
clearly is Cold War time, and you can expand onto that, back it up to 
about 1948 or earlier, and the Cold War wasn't quite over for some 
months after the Berlin Wall started to come down, about the time the 
Soviet Union imploded, and the date I will pick on that, the specific 
date, would be December 31, 1990. That is about as close a date as we 
can get to the end of the Soviet Union.

At that period of time, we could celebrate that the Cold War was over 
and that the United States of America had emerged as the world's only 
superpower, and that this contest, this struggle, that was between this 
communism, hardcore socialism, militarily imposed economies with a 
regime that believed that the person, the individual, the human being, 
God's unique gift of the now six billion plus of us on this planet, 
that people existed for the State. That was their position. That was 
Karl Marx's position, and that is what has evolved in the thought 
process of the utopianists for 150 or more years.

And yet we saw the Soviet Union implode after we saw freedom echo 
across Eastern Europe in nation after nation. We just celebrated 
yesterday or the day before the Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia, 
where thousands and thousands of Czechs stood in the square in Prague 
peacefully and held their keys up, Madam Speaker, and rattled their 
keys for hours on end, rattling their keys for freedom. We can hear 
what that is like. That echoes back 20 years, and we saw Vaclav Havel 
step forward and become the leader of that nation, and they divided it 
into the two separate parts also in a peaceful way.

A little bit of violence along throughout Eastern Europe, but from 
the


standpoint of the hundreds of millions of people who became free in the 
aftermath of the fall of the Berlin Wall, and part of that was the 
Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia, the maximum number of people 
breathe free air for the least amount of blood I believe in the history 
of the world, and that freedom echoed, I would argue then, all of the 
way across Eastern Europe, from the wall in Berlin, all of the way 
across Eastern Europe, all of the way across Russia, all of the way to 
the Pacific Ocean, at least for a time.

And the optimism that I had, and that hope, that faith, that belief 
that the Cold War was really over and that then the free market 
capitalism and the freedom that we have that the rights--our rights 
come from God, and they are enumerated in our Constitution, but they 
are God-given rights, we hold these truths to be self-evident, that the 
image of that, the inspiration of our freedom and the power of the free 
market system had set aside, had pushed away, had defeated every 
competing model for a civilization that had been designed by the world, 
Madam Speaker.


I have to characterize this another way, more succinctly in the words 
of another, and that was Jeanne Kirkpatrick who in the early part of 
the Reagan administration was the ambassador to the United Nations. 
Jeanne Kirkpatrick, as she stepped down as ambassador to the United 
Nations to pursue other endeavors, she said, What is going on in this 
Cold War is this: That the Soviet Union and the United States of 
America, these two superpowers clashing in this Cold War, are the 
equivalent of, the contest is the equivalent of playing chess and 
monopoly on the same board. With our free market economy and monopoly, 
and with the Soviet Union's massive buildup in military ability, she 
said playing chess and monopoly on the same board, and the only 
question is will the United States of America bankrupt the Soviet Union 
economically before the Soviet Union checkmates the United States 
militarily. Chess and monopoly on the same board. Do the Russians go 
bankrupt before they checkmate us with their ICBM missiles and their 
other military equipment and hardware, the massive military that they 
were developing?

We know the answer to that now. That was about 1984 that Jeanne 
Kirkpatrick made that statement. And November 9, 1989, and the ensuing 
months up until the last day in 1990 when the Soviet Union was I think 
officially imploded, we saw that free market capitalism, freedom, the 
inspiration of the rights that come from God that are enumerated in our 
Constitution and that flow, that the government is of, by, and for the 
people, and that the people grant the authority that comes from God to 
their legitimate elected representatives to govern them in an orderly 
fashion, that that system of government, our constitutional Republic 
prevailed, prevailed over the utopian mistake, the colossal error that 
cost the lives of hundreds of millions of people, Karl Marx's approach 
to utopianism. That is what we saw happen, Madam Speaker.

I believed then, in 1989, in the early winter of 1989 and throughout 
1990, 1991, through the early part of the 1990s until the late 1990s 
some time, I believed that it was clear to the rest of the world that 
freedom had won, that free market capitalism had won. I didn't think it 
was arguable, and I thought somehow that those leaders in the world 
would realize the reality that they couldn't compete with a system that 
tapped into the vitality of the inspiration of every individual who had 
their own franchise and their own opportunity and their own rights to 
engage in making their lives better for themselves and their family, 
and to do so in a moral and ethical fashion within the framework of the 
rule of law. I believed the rest of the world would see that clearly.

Look at Eastern Europe, the region that so recently had won its 
freedom: How could they begin to think in this myopic, utopian fashion 
of, let's say, of Marx and Hegel and others that are part of the 
utopian philosophers in that part of the world. How could they think 
that? So they went underground for awhile and they drifted away and 
they became this amorphous, loosely and most often disorganized group 
of people who were still Marxists, they were still Communists, they 
were still believers in a managed society, a managed economy, a utopian 
world, the kind of world where liberal-thinking elitists would manage 
the resources of humanity and that every human being was a tool of the 
state and you were there to glorify the state.

And so they emerged again, Madam Speaker. And as they emerged, they 
began to form alliances against the United States. And those alliances 
that were formed brought about these alliances that we are faced with 
today.

I mean, it wasn't unpredictable that the Islamic fundamentalists 
would rise up and begin to attack the United States. That wasn't 
unpredictable. In fact, it was predicted, not by me, but by other 
people who had an insight into human nature and history that went 
beyond the things that I could sense at that time at least.

And so we have seen the philosophy of ''the enemy of my enemy is my 
friend.'' There is a certain factor, and I will just called it national 
jealousy, that envy factor that comes into play. Europe had lost a lot 
of its glory. They had formed in the 1970s, at least, and perhaps 
earlier than that, the European Union. The goal of the European Union 
was to establish the United States of Europe, to establish the United 
States of Europe incrementally by a common currency and opening up 
borders and providing for open and free trade in the European Union.

It was designed and it was in print as a policy position and 
objective and a goal. And the mission statement was to shape the 
European Union into the United States of Europe and to provide, quote, 
''a counterbalance to the United States of America,'' close quote.

You can see where Europe didn't like the idea that the United States 
of America--the progeny of Europe is what we have been--could become 
the unchallenged superpower in the world. So that resistance and 
objection emerged from Western Europe, the Western Europe that 
represents, I think, the ancestors to modern day Western civilization. 
But there is a little nation envy that goes on, and there is an 
aspiration of a wannabe in trying to make the world a better place.

In Eastern Europe they hung onto their freedom a little bit more, and 
I have observed that those people who have most recently achieved their 
freedom are the ones who protect it and guard it the most jealously. 
That has been the case with the Eastern Europeans who remember what it 
was like to live under the yoke of communism who celebrated in this 
month, and will celebrate every November 9 of every year from here on, 
the fall of the Wall, the literal crashing of the Iron Curtain and the 
end of the Cold War and the beginning of freedom that echoed across 
Eastern Europe, and by some estimations all of the way across Asia to 
the Pacific Ocean, until the utopianists, the control people, the 
dictators began to emerge and to take away the freedoms.



We believed, I think, for some time that in Russia, the remainder of 
the old Soviet Union, that they had that level of freedom that the 
people in Russia wanted. We believed they had free elections and 
freedom of press and a free market economy. At least it was emerging, 
and people were willing to learn how to compete in a free market 
economy. But today we see that Putin has diminished that dramatically, 
that the elections are not the legitimate elections that we had hoped 
we would see in Russia, that free market capitalism is instead 
controlled often by a Russian mob, a Russian mafia, and favoritisms 
that take place and the payoffs that go on within indicate a corrupt 
society that's now run for the glorification and the power and the 
enrichment of the rulers. That's the case in a number of other 
countries in the world.

But we're unique here in the United States of America. Madam Speaker, 
we're a unique people. And, yes, we are the progeny of Western Europe, 
and we are the progeny that came from primarily Western European stock. 
And at the time that we received the best that Western Europe had to 
offer, we also received a fundamental Christian faith as the core of 
our moral values.

This is a Judeo-Christian Nation, Madam Speaker. The core of our 
moral values is embodied within the culture. Whatever church people go 
to or


whether they go to church, wherever they worship or whether they 
worship, we still have the American people who, as a culture, 
understand Christian values and Christian principles, the Judeo-
Christian values that are timeless.

So I would illustrate that, Madam Speaker, in this way. An example 
would be this: Let's just say if an honorable man from Texas were to 
pull into his driveway and his neighbor's dog had gotten loose and had 
run underneath the tire of his car. If you're in Texas or Iowa or most 
of the places in the country, if you run over your neighbor's dog, what 
do you do? This is how I'm going to illustrate this is a Christian 
Nation. You go over and knock on your neighbor's door and you say, 
Well, Joe, I just killed your dog. I'm sorry.

Well, there are two things that happened there. One of them is 
confession, I just killed your dog. I'm sorry, his repentance. The 
third thing you say is, Will you forgive me? I didn't mean to. It was 
an accident. So you would have confession, repentance, and you ask for 
forgiveness. And the neighbor, Joe, will say, Well, it wasn't your 
fault. Of course you're forgiven. And that is the path of Christian 
forgiveness that takes place even when we run over our neighbor's dog.

This is a Christian Nation, and the foundation of Western 
civilization are those kinds of values. And this is rooted going as far 
back as the Age of Reason in Greece where the foundations and the 
principles of logic and reason and science were developed, and it flows 
through Western civilization into the division of the Age of 
Enlightenment that took place, the English speaking half where we got 
our free enterprise and our freedom from and the non-English-speaking 
half of the Age of Enlightenment where we got a lot of these utopian 
ideas that flowed down here. And some of them have polluted the thought 
process, and they clearly pollute the thought process here in the 
United States Congress where many have suspended their ability to 
reason.

I recall even this week being criticized by a professor of political 
science who assigned me a belief system and then attacked the belief 
system that he assigned to me. You wouldn't have gotten by with that in 
front of Socrates or Milton Friedman, for example, and you shouldn't 
get by with that in this society either. If person after person in this 
Congress takes the posture that we should be legislating in part by 
anecdotes and by feelings and by emoting, by something sympathetic so 
that no one falls through anything, that we create a sieve that there 
are no cracks in, truthfully, Madam Speaker, society doesn't work that 
way. There is good and there is evil in all of us.

We're predominantly good. We have to punish the evil and reward the 
good. And our job in this Congress is to enhance and increase in public 
policy, to the extent we can, the average annual productivity of our 
people. And if that is brought about in a moral fashion, that improves 
the quality of life, the standard of living of everyone in the United 
States of America, and it strengthens us from a military, economic, 
social, and cultural standpoint. And we are being weakened by people 
who undermine our national security, by people who are constantly 
assaulting free enterprise, capitalism, by people who are constantly 
assaulting the rule of law. And the rule of law does apply and it 
applies in securing our borders.

I see my friend from Missouri has arrived on the floor, and whatever 
is on his heart at the time, I'd be so happy to yield to the gentleman. 
The gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Akin).