# None
## `17ee36a087292d5dfca4d5f6472378cc`
`Mr. MURTHA — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. MURTHA. Mr. Speaker, let me just say to my good friend from 
California, that in the Revolutionary War they fought for 7 years 
against the greatest army in the history of the world at that time, 
ragged, with no shoes, no ammunition, and they outworked them and 
outfought them because they were on their homeland.

That is what I am saying the Iraqis should do. It is the Iraqis' 
country. The Americans should not be dying for Iraqis, caught in this 
civil war.

We have appropriated $1.2 trillion. We have appropriated over $140 
billion more than the White House asked for, $140 billion more for the 
troops, to support the troops. We have given everything they asked for. 
In this Iraq accountability bill, we give them $4 billion more than the 
President asked for. We put a strategic reserve in, and we also take 
care of the health care, the post-traumatic stress. We take care of 
brain damage. We take care of the troops. We want to make sure the 
troops have what they need.

And to go back to the Revolutionary War, my great-grandfather's 
grandfather fought in the Revolutionary War on the right side and he 
prevailed. We don't have any letters from him, but we have letters from 
my great-grandfather who served in the Civil War on the right side, and 
he talks about how tough it was in the Civil War. But we


fought our own Civil War, and my great-grandmother lived to be 96; I 
was 6 years old, and she said, you are put on this Earth to make a 
difference.

We need to make a difference in this Congress, to change the 
direction of a mishandled war. We need to have oversight and 
accountability for the $1.2 trillion that we have spent on the Defense 
Department in 1 year.