---
---

# PRESCRIPTION DRUG USER FEE AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `17ef47c8526eeb1e0a7fc09ee08680d9`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 7 May 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President, at the end of March, the U.S. Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission sued the Salvation Army for allegedly 
discriminating against two of the Salvation Army's employees in a 
Boston-area thrift store by requiring them to speak English on the job. 
This lawsuit means that every business in America, from the shoe shop 
to Wal-Mart, will need to hire lawyers to prove it has a legitimate 
business purpose if that business wants to require employees to speak 
our national language while at work.

I asked the chair of the EEOC in what language she holds staff 
meetings. She said, in English.

We conduct Senate debates in English.

Since 1906, no immigrant has been able to become an American citizen 
without first learning English. At Hillsboro High School in Nashville, 
where my daughter graduated, students speak 28 native languages, but 
classes are conducted in English.

Federal law requires that all children in public schools be tested in 
English, and that if they do not know English, they must learn it as 
soon as possible.

Over the last 40 years, I have voted for or supported, I believe, 
almost every civil rights or anti-discrimination law that has been 
offered. But in America, requiring English in the workplace is not 
discrimination; it is common sense. More important, it is our common 
language. Our common language helps unite the diversity in this Nation 
of immigrants.

That is why, during the debate on immigration a year ago, the Senate 
adopted my proposals: First, to provide $500 grants to help prospective 
citizens learn basic English; second, to allow someone who becomes 
fluent in English to become a citizen after 4 years instead of 5.

The Senate also declared English to be America's national language 
and provided that anyone illegally here must first learn English before 
gaining legal status.

A few Senators said we were wasting our time debating national unity 
and language. But other nations are discovering just how important and 
difficult it is to unite one's country. Look at how today Turkey is 
struggling with whether to become more secular or more Muslim, 
struggling with what to do about its Kurdish minority. Germans are 
struggling to absorb Turkish workers. Italians are establishing 
agencies to help new Muslim residents ''feel Italian.'' Three alienated 
British citizens, children of Pakistani immigrants, blew up a London 
subway 2 years ago. The children of disaffected Muslim immigrants in 
France burned cars during that country's elections this weekend, a 
small echo of much larger riots 2 years ago.


We Americans are rightly proud of our diversity. But Iraq and 
Jerusalem and the Balkans are also diverse. America's greatest 
accomplishment is not our magnificent diversity. Our greatest 
accomplishment is that we have united that diversity into one country.

Our original national motto inscribed in the wall right above the 
Presiding Officer's chair is ''One from Many,'' not ''Many from One.''

Most nations unite around ancestry or race, making it hard for 
newcomers. Imagine ''becoming Japanese'' or ''becoming German.'' In 
other words, the United States Constitution says race or ancestry can 
have nothing to do with someone becoming an American. Instead, American 
unity is based upon ideas, principles found in our founding documents--
such as liberty, equal opportunity, and the rule of law. New citizens 
must, therefore, pass an exam, which was recently improved, about the 
Declaration of Independence, our Constitution, and United States 
history.

The first Europeans in America were French and Spanish, but our 
cultural beginnings and primary institutions


and laws were Protestant and English. So English became the way 
Americans of many backgrounds communicated with one another.

In the 20th century, according to the late president of the American 
Federation of Teachers, Albert Shanker, American common--or public--
schools were created primarily to help immigrant children learn 
arithmetic and to read and write in English with the hope that they 
would go home and teach their parents. Then, in 1906, all new citizens 
were required to know English.

That has turned out to be a fortunate choice. English has also become 
a unifying language internationally. For example, every Chinese student 
is expected to study English. When Carlos Ghosn, who speaks several 
languages, became chief executive officer of Nissan, he began 
conducting business meetings in Nissan's Tokyo headquarters in English.

The most fortunate children in our country are those who grow up 
learning more than one language, but American parents know that one of 
those must be English. Mastering English is how an American succeeds in 
school, in the workplace, on the computer, and in international 
affairs.

A century ago, many American companies and private associations led 
an effort to Americanize new immigrants. They taught their employees 
English and the National Anthem. Today, the EEOC is suing the Salvation 
Army for doing the very same thing, insisting that its employees learn 
and speak this country's common language.

According to an article that appeared today in USA Today:




 The number of charges filed with the Federal Equal 


 Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) alleging 


 discrimination based on such English-only policies is . . . 


 six times as large as 10 years ago, [growing] from 32 charges 


 in 1996 to about 200 in 2006.


This is not only an astonishing waste of the EEOC's time and 
taxpayers' money--the EEOC has a backlog of 56,000 cases--but it is 
also contrary to everything we know about the importance of achieving 
unity in our country.

Speaking English is not a punitive requirement; it is a requirement 
to help us communicate with one another. A 9-1-1 telephone call isn't 
of much help to a Chinese-speaking person if the employee answering the 
phone speaks only Spanish.

In this case, the Salvation Army posted its requirements that 
employees in thrift stores speak English. The two employees in question 
had worked for the Salvation Army for 5 years. They were then given an 
extra year to learn English. When they didn't, they were let go.

I intend to introduce legislation to put an end to these lawsuits by 
making it clear that requiring employees to speak English is not 
illegal discrimination as long as the policy is clearly posted.

More than that, I can think of nothing that would be more in our 
national interest than helping anyone in our country learn our common 
language. That is why later this month, when the immigration 
legislation comes to the floor, I will introduce again my amendment 
that the Senate adopted last year giving every adult immigrant a $500 
voucher to receive English instruction and allowing those immigrants 
who want to become citizens to do that in 4 years instead of 5 if they 
become proficient--rather than just achieve a basic level--in English.

Senator Kennedy and I have discussed the fact that there are too many 
adults eager to learn English standing in line in Boston and Nashville 
for adult learning programs. They need help learning English, and I 
hope we can rectify that soon.

For 10 years I have suggested, most recently to Bill Gates at a 
hearing, that I would like to see established a private foundation that 
would loan $500 to any person living in this country who wants to spend 
it at an accredited institution learning English, with the hope that 
someday that student would pay it back. The payoff to American unity 
would be worth the cost by itself. But I believe such a bank would 
eventually grow to a huge size funded by grateful new Americans.

Without our common language we would be a giant Tower of Babel. It 
would be difficult for Americans to talk with one another, to debate 
political issues, and to vote. It would be harder to function as a 
democracy and to unite as one country. Without English, we would risk 
becoming just another United Nations instead of the United States of 
America.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the 
Record the article from the USA Today to which I made reference.