---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `17f1a682008ef0519d89ac7546a7acff`
`Mr. WEBB — 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I appreciate the chairman allowing me to 
speak and also I appreciate the Senator from Kansas allowing me to 
speak briefly before he does.

I want to express my support for the provisions in this budget that 
go to the veterans programs. I want to deal with that in a minute.

First, I would like to point out to this body that this afternoon, 
ADM William Fallon, who is the commander of Central Command, resigned 
his position. We are not sure exactly how this is going to affect the 
administration's policies or Admiral Fallon's long-term willingness to 
express his views on administration policies, but I want to express my 
own regret that Admiral Fallon, who has served our country more than 40 
years, has decided to resign his post in part, apparently, because of 
his concerns about some of the administration's policies.

I know a little something about resigning. I resigned my position 
when I was Secretary of the Navy when I was unable to support some 
dramatic reductions in the Navy shipbuilding program. Those are not 
easy decisions to make. I would also point out that this administration 
is not an administration that has tolerated dissent from our military 
leaders or, for that matter, is not an administration that has been 
very willing to seek advice from our military leaders, our senior 
military leaders, particularly when that advice is not in strict 
accordance with its own political views.

It should be pointed out that Admiral Fallon, who is the commander of 
Central Command, which is the overarching command that also includes 
Iraq, is now the third CENTCOM commander in recent history to have had 
at least some form of concerns about policies in that region.

Before we invaded Iraq, GEN Tony Zinni, Marine Corps general, former 
CENTCOM commander, spoke out strongly against invading Iraq, as did GEN 
Joe Hoare, former CENTCOM commander. So I think we need to see a 
greater willingness among our political process to listen to the views 
of people who have had long service and who have concerns about where 
this country is going.

There are too many people who have been involved at the top levels in 
the Pentagon who tend to believe that Iraq is something of an island, 
that you can separate what is going on in Iraq from other issues that 
are affecting the entire region. This is a region that is in chaos, all 
the way from Lebanon to Pakistan, as we well know. We need the advice, 
the contributions of global thinkers.

Admiral Fallon was one of them, Admiral Mullen is another, people who 
bring another sort of strategic perspective into this debate. I am 
profoundly concerned that Admiral Fallon has decided to take this 
measure, and I am hoping that we can hear from him in a more specific 
way in the future.

In fact, I would point out that I recently signed two letters on 
January 17, one to Chairman Levin of the Armed Services Committee and 
another to Senator Biden of the Foreign Relations Committee, both of 
which I sit on as a member, asking specifically that they invite 
Admiral Fallon, among others, to testify in consonance with General 
Petraeus's testimony coming up this year.

I was saying last September that it was an error, I believe, only to 
focus on what General Petraeus was saying in the stovepipe of Iraq 
rather than to hear these strategic thinkers talking about the region 
at large. So I hope we can do that in some greater detail in the near 
future.



Again, I want to express my profound appreciation for the service 
that Admiral Fallon has given our country.

With respect to the veterans provisions in this budget, we on this 
side have put more money into it. We have listened to the joint 
opinions of our major veterans groups. A big part of this is the GI 
bill, which I introduced my first day in office. We now have 49 
cosponsors on this bill which will give those people who have been 
serving since 9/11 the same level of benefits as those who came back in 
World War II.

On the one hand, we hear so many people, particularly in this 
administration, talking about how these who have been serving since 9/
11 are the next ''greatest generation,'' and on the other, this 
administration itself seems to oppose giving our veterans of this time 
period the same benefits we gave those who served during World War II--
a GI bill that literally transformed notions of class and privilege in 
the United States.

I would remind my colleagues that for every dollar in tax 
remuneration that was paid on the World War II GI bill, we received $7 
in tax benefits because of the way they were able to advance their 
careers.

I yield the floor.