---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `17f2035901e53c284d5ac75ab91cee39`
`Mr. DURBIN — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Texas. I am glad 
she had an opportunity to speak. We disagree on this issue, but I am 
glad she had her opportunity to speak.

I hear from different people. Obviously, we must ride on different 
planes because the people I speak with are anxious to see some change 
in this health care system and know that 14,000 Americans lose their 
health insurance every single day. They know that most people cannot 
afford health insurance because of the increase in costs.

I say to the Senator from Texas, she is my friend and we have worked 
on many issues in the past, but we disagree on this issue.

I am coming before the Senate with a holiday proposal. Recently there 
was a book that was published about World War I. It was about trench 
warfare that went on and on with horrendous casualties and lives being 
lost. Then there came a moment, a Christmas moment, when they decided 
to call a truce because of Christmas and play a soccer game. The Allied 
and Axis troops came out and, for a brief moment, stopped the war, 
played the soccer game, and went back to the trenches and the next day 
started shooting again.

I am looking for a holiday truce here for our troops because what we 
have before us right now is the Department of Defense appropriations 
bill. Although Senator Hutchison and I clearly disagree and many 
Members on both sides clearly disagree when it comes to health care, 
there is no disagreement when it comes to our troops. Every one of us 
supports our troops. Every one of us wants to make sure they have what 
they need, the resources they need to perform their mission 
successfully and come home safely.

This bill that is before us, this Department of Defense 
appropriations conference report, is an attempt for us to do something 
to help these troops in time of war. I would hope I could appeal to my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle that for one brief, shining 
moment in the spirit of the holiday we set aside our political 
differences for the sake of our men and women in uniform.

The point I am getting to is that if we go through the ordinary, 
tortured procedure and wait, it is going to take us days to complete 
this bill for our troops. I hope we can show good faith on both sides 
of the aisle and overcome that. I hope we could enter into a consent 
agreement among Republicans and Democrats because I know as I stand 
here that the Republicans feel as the Democrats do--that we should 
provide funding for our overseas operations of our men and women in 
uniform.

In this bill, $101 billion is included for operations and maintenance 
for ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and to support 
the preparations to continue the withdrawal from Iraq.

In this bill, there is $23.36 billion for equipment. We want to make 
sure our men and women in uniform have the equipment they need to make 
certain they are safe and have what they need to come home safely.

There is also a pay raise in this bill, a 3.4-percent pay raise. Does 
anyone dispute the need that our military has to be recognized for what 
they have given our country and be given a pay raise?

When it comes to readiness and training, there is $154 billion for 
the defense operation and maintenance account to increase readiness.

In the field of military health care, there is $29 billion for the 
Defense Health Program to provide quality care for servicemembers and 
their families. It includes, incidentally, $120 million for traumatic 
brain injury and psychological health research.

These are issues we have all come together on. We are not arguing 
about these issues, and I do not think we should at this moment.

There is $472 million for family advocacy programs and full funding 
for Family Support and Yellow Ribbon to provide support to military 
families, including quality childcare, job training for spouses, and 
expanded counseling and outreach.

There is one other section of the bill--and I will yield for a 
question from my friend from Alaska when I complete this point--there 
is one other section that relates to the unemployment crisis facing 
this country. It is a modest extension of the unemployment benefits. 
The last time it was on the floor, I believe it passed 97 to 0. I do 
not believe there is any controversy to the fact that we want to extend 
unemployment insurance benefits through February 28 of next year. It is 
difficult to envision a situation where we would actually leave here to 
go home to our families for the holidays and not take care of the 
unemployed.

There is also a provision for their health insurance under COBRA and 
for food stamps on which we know so many unemployed families rely. It 
seems to me if there is one thing in the midst of this political 
turmoil we can agree on, it is let's stand behind our troops, let's 
make sure people who are unemployed have a happy holiday season. Why do 
we want a tortured process to reach a ''yes'' on this conference 
report? I appeal to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to 
make this a bipartisan effort. Let's do this part. We can return to the 
health care bill and the debate. But let's get this done and do it 
without all the necessary motions and time that may be spent.

I yield for a question from the Senator from Alaska.