---
---

# RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `17f5324691dfe9cc4145b8565fdd22a9`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 27 March 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me close, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Flake has one philosophy about security, and that is narrow and 
let us not move forward. The underlying bill makes a whole new 
statement to America, that we are planning on reviewing those areas 
that are failing in security and improve them.

Has anyone heard of the eighth grade school bus trip, where children 
fill up a long-distance bus going somewhere that you hope your children 
will return from?



That is what we are trying to improve, the tragedy that may occur 
when people are using over-the-road buses. This is what this program 
is. It is not a program of waste; it is based on risk. As well, we are 
holding TSA accountable in the utilization of funds.

This is a bad amendment that undermines the new idea, which is to 
make sure that all aspects of America's security are both reviewed and 
provided resources so we can do the right thing and move forward with 
the right program that is fiscally responsible, but also provides the 
security necessary.

This amendment undermines the underlying bill and certainly takes 
away the necessary security for over-the-road buses. I ask my 
colleagues to oppose this amendment.

I strongly oppose this amendment striking the bus security grants 
provided in this bill.

More people ride over-the-road buses, and more communities and 
destinations are served by those buses, than any other form of 
intercity passenger transportation.

Buses and bus terminals have been the targets of suicide bombers in 
Iraq, Israel, Pakistan and elsewhere in the world.

Worldwide, over the last 80 years, 47% of surface transportation 
terrorist attacks have involved buses.

We must invest the money needed to protect bus passengers.

I encourage my colleagues to vote against this amendment.