# None
## `17f885e9d37cba9c22e258b9172f91a9`
`Mr. CORNYN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I am struck by the fact that during the 
course of this debate on the Levin-Reed amendment some Senators seem to 
take the attitude that our presence in Iraq is merely optional, that we 
can choose to do whatever we want to do without regard to the 
consequences. I think of those consequences, as 94 Senators indicated 
yesterday by their vote on the sense-of-the-Senate amendment that said 
we would do no act that would make it more likely that Iraq would end 
up in a failed state because the danger that poses to our national 
security. I don't believe our presence in Iraq is merely optional.

I do not agree with our colleagues who seem to say that, well, the 
only thing missing is enough pressure on the Iraqi political leadership 
to get their act together, and if they would do what the American 
Congress wants them to do on the timetable the American Congress thinks 
is appropriate, then we are going to pull the plug, we are going to 
leave Iraq, and leave Iraqis to themselves, as if the consequences of 
that action would be borne only by the Iraqis. In fact, I believe the 
consequences of that action would be disastrous to American national 
security, as well as to the region in the Middle East.

So I do not believe it is merely a matter of putting more pressure on 
the Iraqis. As a matter of fact, I marvel at the irony of Members of 
the Senate saying after decades of living under a brutal dictator and 
the literal genocide that had resulted from the murders he carried out 
and the suppression of the Shiite majority by the Sunni minority under 
the Baath party, that somehow this new democracy can spring to life as 
our democracy has after 231 years and solve these problems. Such as, 
why can't they pass a law that says we will share the oil revenue, 
while we have been unsuccessful in solving the insolvency of our Social 
Security system. They suggest there needs to be reconciliation 
overnight between the Shiites and Sunnis when it took us well over 100 
years and a civil war in which 600,000 Americans died for the civil 
rights movement to take root and to overcome the scourge of slavery.

I think some of my colleagues are taking an unrealistic approach when 
it comes to how fast we expect this new democracy to take the political 
steps to solve some of these problems. And, of course, they cannot do 
it unless basic security is provided--security for them and security 
for us.

That is why it is important that we not listen to the armchair 
generals here in Washington, DC, with very little military experience 
in fighting and winning wars. It is one reason why we need to listen to 
the generals on the ground, people such as GEN David Petraeus and 
others who have stated very clearly what the consequences of failure 
will be to the United States.

I also marvel at the short memories of some of my colleagues who said 
we should not have gone into Iraq in the first place after 77 Senators 
in this body voted to authorize the President to do that. Do they 
forget the fact that Saddam Hussein defied, I think it was 16 or 17 
United Nations resolutions to open up his country to weapons inspectors 
from the United Nations, and the concern, of course, post-9/11 that 
Saddam was developing chemical, nuclear, or biological weapons and that 
he


would share that technology with terrorists such as al-Qaida?

And the idea that al-Qaida has sprung up in Iraq overnight, not 
because of the conditions created under Saddam or postwar Iraq, but 
because of something we did, to me is an amazing allegation. So it is 
America that is to blame for al-Qaida being in Iraq. That, I suppose, 
is the allegation.

I am glad to see at least our colleagues do acknowledge that al-Qaida 
is in Iraq, and, of course, we are met today with the news that the top 
al-Qaida figure in Iraq was captured. Adding information from him 
indicates the group's foreign-based leadership wields considerable 
influence over the country of Iraq.

I don't see how colleagues can vote in favor of the Levin-Reed 
amendment, which calls for a rapid withdrawal of forces before the 
Iraqis are able to stabilize their own country and are able to defend 
themselves and at the same time vote for the amendment we voted on 
yesterday, which was adopted 94 to 3, saying we are not going to take 
any action which makes it more likely that Iraq will become a failed 
state because as the National Intelligence Estimate and the Iraq Study 
Group indicated, a failed state in Iraq means a free hand for al-Qaida. 
A free hand for al-Qaida in Iraq makes Iraq less safe, but it also 
makes America less safe because, as we all know, war is an interactive 
affair. We can quit fighting, but it doesn't mean our enemy will. Of 
course, were we to bring our troops home, as all of us want to do, the 
only question is whether we are going to do it based on an arbitrary 
timetable with the risk of a failed state or whether we are going to do 
it based on conditions on the ground and with the objective of leaving 
Iraq with the capability to govern and defend itself.

The question is, are we going to bring our troops home at a time and 
in such a manner as it increases the likelihood that Iraq will descend 
into a failed state with, of course, the opportunity for al-Qaida to 
regroup, to recruit, to train, and then export further terrorist 
attacks to the United States? This is the reality. Were we to leave 
Iraq before it has the capability to defend and govern itself, our 
enemies would simply follow us here.


It is almost as if some of our colleagues want to pull the covers 
over their head and pretend if they do so, if we ignore the threat, it 
will go away. Unfortunately, life is not that simple. Nor is the threat 
illusory, as some of our colleagues indicate.

So it is important that the Levin-Reed amendment be defeated, that we 
not set an arbitrary timetable to tie the hands of GEN David Petraeus 
with this new strategy that has recently been completed--that is, the 
surge of troops and the operational surge underway--and with the kind 
of success we have seen turning Anbar Province around, a place that 
previously no one could go because al-Qaida basically ruled the roost. 
Now we are starting to see some signs of success there and hopefully 
begin to let the counterinsurgency strategy that General Petraeus was 
sent over to execute, one that will allow our troops and the Iraqis to 
clear the threat, to then hold the area, and then to allow the 
political operatives in Iraq the space in which to do the important 
reconciliation that we all know is essential to the long-term success 
and stabilization of that country.

This is a historic vote we will be having in a few minutes, and I 
hope our colleagues will vote in the interest of American national 
security, will vote in the interest of doing nothing that would 
increase the likelihood of a failed state and providing al-Qaida an 
additional foothold and operating space within Iraq.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.