---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 6599, MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND  VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `180b71182ba591695f7829e7bc355539`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. I appreciate the gentlewoman's courtesy in permitting 
me to speak.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and the underlying bill.

This is a critical piece of legislation that speaks to the quality of 
life of our men and women in uniform. One of the consequences of having 
the most effective, powerful military force in the world is that we 
have a great deal of activity that takes place training and operating 
military facilities across the country. And, sadly, Mr. Speaker, one of 
the areas that we have not been quite as good as we should is dealing 
with the consequences of those military operations. The American 
landscape are littered with the residue of past military operations, 
base operations, and training exercises. There are bombs, explosives, 
military toxins and environmental hazards in every State of the union, 
over 3,000 sites across America.

One of the things I have worked on since I came to Congress was to 
have the Department of Defense and, most important, we in Congress do a 
better job of helping the military clean up after itself. I have come 
to this floor repeatedly with examples where bombs have turned up in 
people's backyards. I see the former chairman of the committee from 
California on the floor and am reminded of the three young children in 
San Diego who discovered bombs in a subdivision, and two of them were 
killed. Over 60 more people have been killed according to my research 
here in the United States.

It is time for us to take responsibility to clean up that explosive 
and toxic legacy, in part because it's not going to get any cheaper. 
Over the years it's going to cost more and more. Failure to do this 
right puts innocent children's lives at risk. Remember when we came to 
the floor with a coloring book that told children what they should do 
when they found unexploded ordinances near their schools. The Pentagon 
had Larry the Lizard trying to tell them what to do, when they found a 
shell . . . rather than spending money to clean it up and remove that 
hazard.

I am pleased that this year we are fully funding the--the 2005 BRAC 
account. I am pleased with the leadership from Chairman Edwards, 
Ranking Member Wamp and my good friend Mr. Farr from California, who 
has been struggling with this issue for years in his district, they 
were able to put an


additional $80 million to clean up the legacy of BRAC sites.

I appreciate that this is a difficult budget year but it's always a 
difficult budget year, and we never seem to quite have enough to deal 
with the environmental problems that face our Department of Defense. I 
hope that this is a start in the right direction for a renewed 
commitment to clean up this toxic legacy that risks American lives here 
in this country and will develop new technology that will actually save 
American lives overseas in places like Iraq and Afghanistan if we do it 
right. I hope it makes possible more progress in the future, and I urge 
support.