---
---

# None
## `180c8d9818f01bfc78471a66143e1712`
`Mr. LEAHY — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the Senate once again is debating a bill by 
Senator Feingold, Senator Reid, myself, and others to change course in 
Iraq. And once again, I urge the Senate to act.

This is a war started under false pretenses, waged with incompetent 
political policymaking that disserved the bravery and sacrifice of our 
fighting men and women. This is a war that now slogs on--week after 
week, year after year--with nothing but a ''pause'' on the horizon, and 
still no end in sight. The toll of American casualties rolls on, and so 
does the drain on the Nation's resources, heading inexorably past the 
hundreds of billions of dollars toward an unfathomable trillion 
dollars.

The war has sapped our credibility, strained our alliances, and 
complicated our security challenges.

Meanwhile, Osama bin Laden remains at large and al-Qaida has been 
given the opportunity to regenerate. The northwestern frontier between 
Pakistan and Afghanistan is a lawless extremist haven.

A redeployment of American forces along the lines of the Feingold-
Reid measure would force the Iraqis to realize that our presence is 
finite. If they want to step away from the abyss, it will take real 
reconciliation and the will to get it done.

The Bush administration's failed policy in Iraq has stretched our 
military to the breaking point, diluted and diverted our efforts to 
counter al-Qaida and its affiliates in Afghanistan and elsewhere, and 
roiled the Middle East with instability. The sooner we change course 
the sooner we can implement a sound, sensible, and sustainable policy 
that truly advances our security interests.