---
---

# CBC DISCUSSES SCHIP AND THE JENA SIX
## `18240ac9821f15cc72e157c6d3da9795`
`Ms. LEE — 24 September 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. First, Mr. Speaker, let me just thank my colleagues from the 
Congressional Black Caucus for their leadership, especially our Chair, 
Congresswoman Carolyn Kilpatrick, who has done such a wonderful job 
keeping us focused on ''Changing Course, Confronting Crises and 
Continuing the Legacy.''

I also want to thank the Chair of our Ethics Committee, Congresswoman 
Stephanie Tubbs Jones for her leadership on so many issues and also for 
her service on the House Ways and Means Committee. She has truly made 
history as the first African American woman serving on that committee, 
and as we heard tonight, her commitment to children's health care is 
remarkable, and she has done so much on behalf of our children, and so 
I thank Mrs. Jones for her leadership and for this Special Order.

Let me first rise in solidarity with the tens of thousands of people 
around our Nation who took to the streets last week to protest the 
miscarriage of justice that has taken place in Jena, Louisiana.

Students in my district are as outraged as students throughout the 
country. The case of the Jena Six is yet another example of the 
institutional racism in our criminal justice system, and it is 
unacceptable.

We have come so far from the days of Jim Crow, but incidents like 
this one should serve as a solemn reminder of just how much further we 
must go in seeking liberty and justice for all.

Just with Katrina, the Jena Six demonstrates in a glaring and tragic 
manner the unfinished business of America. Unfortunately, these are 
issues in many instances of black and white.

If we are ever to overcome the tragic legacy of racism in this 
Nation, we have a duty to our young people to see to it that the 
principle of equal justice is upheld. If we truly believe in our 
Nation's principle of equality under the law, then we must make sure 
that everyone, regardless of race, is held equal under the law.

There are Jenas everywhere in America, and it's not just where nooses 
are hung from trees. Just look at the injustice and the ramifications 
of mandatory minimum sentences and three strikes laws. Young black men 
have received sentences under these laws totally disproportionate to 
the crime committed. It's time for America to wake up and begin to 
complete this unfinished business.

Now, let me just briefly talk about children's health care and say in 
no uncertain terms that it's really incredibly irresponsible and 
downright shameful that the President really does not support 
children's health care.

SCHIP is one of the most successful programs in our Nation, 
facilitating coverage for 6 million children. When I was in the State 
legislature, along with Congresswoman Hilda Solis and now-Mayor Antonio 
Villaraigosa, we wrote the Healthy Families program, which was the 
California SCHIP initiative. We were then and continue to be committed 
to extending the reach of the program as much as possible with the 
available resources, and now Healthy Families in California provides 
low-cost access to health care for over 800,000 children, more than any 
other State.

The flexibility built into SCHIP has allowed California to provide 
access to health, dental and vision coverage for the children that it 
serves, and we must continue to support that vital mission.

Providing health care coverage for our children is one of the most 
cost-effective investments that America can make. Children are the 
least costly to provide coverage for, and giving children access to 
adequate primary health care will create a generation of healthier, 
better educated and, in the end, more productive adults.

Under the Bush administration, the number of uninsured Americans has 
continued to grow. Employers continue to cut coverage and shift more of 
the burden to employees as costs continue to rise, but the SCHIP 
program has slowed the growth for our Nation's children.

Additionally, comprehensive health coverage for children is an 
important step towards eliminating the growing, continuing, huge health 
disparities that plague minority populations, including 800,000 Asian 
Pacific Americans, 1.4 million African Americans, and 3.4 million 
Latinos.

Minority children make up more than 5 million of the 9 million 
uninsured children. These children are more than twice as likely as 
white children to die before their first birthday, and these mortality 
rates are a direct result of these children being uninsured.

So, quite frankly, I think it's two months of the funding for this 
occupation of Iraq, this funding would cover every child in America for 
a year. It is a tragedy that children's health care has not been funded 
at the level that we're funding the occupation of Iraq.

Now, unfortunately, I have to say it seems like the President is 
waging war against our children, and I hope that the American people 
hold him accountable.

I thank you for organizing this Special Order tonight.