# None
## `182898e3f968143e1f740780d0d3b96d`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 3 April 2008`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader for his 
leadership in making this all possible.

Mr. President, the war in Iraq has deeply divided our country. But 
whatever our views are about the war, we know our soldiers are serving 
nobly under extraordinarily difficult circumstances and that far too 
many are making the ultimate sacrifice for our country. The war 
continues to impose an enormous human toll on our soldiers, their 
families, and their loved ones. Our men and women in uniform have 
served with great courage and honor for 5 years, and last week, during 
the recess of Congress, we reached a sad milestone--the loss of 4,000 
service men and women in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. An 
additional 30,000 service men and women have been wounded. We have also 
lost nearly 500 service men and women in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom in Afghanistan.

This loss of life is deeply distressing, and the impact of the wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan continues to be devastating to families and 
communities around our Nation. We honor their service, and we pray that 
God's grace and mercy may ease the anguish of those they have left 
behind.

It is fitting, therefore, that today we honor and remember the 
courageous men and women who gave the last full measure of their 
devotion to our country in these wars. From Lexington and Concord and 
Gettysburg, to Normandy and Iwo Jima, to Korea and Vietnam, to Iraq and 
Afghanistan today, these heroes are part of a long line of courageous 
patriots who stood their ground with uncommon valor and sacrificed for 
all of us.

Since the terrorist attack by al-Qaida on September 11, millions of 
Americans have proudly and voluntarily defended our country and our 
Constitution by serving in our Armed Forces, our Reserves, and our 
National Guard. Their devotion to duty is beyond question, and their 
valor is proven. They volunteered to serve and help us meet the immense 
challenge we face. They knew the vast danger to life and limb and were 
well aware that at any moment they might make the ultimate sacrifice. 
And as of today, 4,496 have made that sacrifice in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. They were all patriots. They put themselves in harm's way 
to protect us all. And because of their dedication and sacrifice, we 
continue to enjoy the freedoms we cherish in our democracy.

Each of these men and women has a poignant story to tell. Just as 
poignant are the fond memories of their loved ones here at home. I know 
something of that feeling. I was 12 years old when my mother became a 
Gold Star mother. It still seems like only yesterday when that knock on 
our door came in 1944, and we learned that my oldest brother, Joe, had 
been lost in World War II.

I know there is no easy way to mend these broken hearts, no way to 
lift the


almost unbearable burden from the families and friends of those we 
lost. We mourn the loss of these heroes. We honor their sacrifice and 
extend our deepest condolences to their families. Words cannot ease the 
grief of losing a loved one, but I hope the families may find some 
comfort in the words of Abraham Lincoln in that famous letter he sent 
to a bereaved mother during the Civil War. He wrote:




 Dear Madam, I feel how weak and fruitless must be any words 


 of mine which should attempt to beguile you from the grief of 


 a loss so overwhelming. But I cannot refrain from tendering 


 to you the consolation that may be found in the thanks of the 


 Republic they died to save. I pray that our Heavenly Father 


 may assuage the anguish of your bereavement, and leave you 


 only the cherished memory of the loved and the lost, and the 


 solemn pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a 


 sacrifice upon the altar of freedom.


The consequences of the decisions we make in Congress profoundly 
affect our military, their families, and the communities they have 
left. We have an obligation to our soldiers to make sensible decisions 
that will not place them needlessly in harm's way.

It is fitting that we now pause to recognize, remember, and honor 
those who have lost their lives far from home for our grateful Nation 
in Iraq and Afghanistan.