# GAS PRICES
## `182ca9698f831d875ac9fb9e92d25c2f`
`Mrs. McCASKILL â€” 24 July 2008`

---


Mrs. McCASKILL. Mr. President, yesterday there was an incredibly dark 
cloud that passed over Washington. I think the saddest thing about this 
very dark cloud is the fact that there wasn't an immediate outcry from 
every corner of this building and every office in the Pentagon. One of 
the most frustrating things about Washington is the attention span of 
so many in Washington and the search for the headline that is the most 
sensational. So it is no wonder that news about auditing doesn't bust 
out.

I come to the floor to try to emphasize the crisis we are facing 
right now in terms of the Pentagon and auditing of taxpayer dollars.

Let me briefly explain the two agencies involved. One is the Defense 
Contract Audit Agency. What is DCAA? That is part of the problem. 
Nobody knows what it is. Nobody knows what it does. DCAA is the 
auditing agency in the Department of Defense that is responsible for 
auditing the contractors. Think about that for a minute: 3,500 people 
are employed by this Agency, and they are our eyes and ears into 
contractor practices at the Department of Defense. We are talking 
serious money here. We are talking about hundreds and hundreds of 
billions--with a ''b''--of dollars.

One would think that if we have 3,500 people working full time to 
audit the contractors, we should all feel good about that and, frankly, 
before yesterday, I kind of felt good about it. As I learned about all 
of the auditors of the Department of Defense, I thought: I am glad we 
have an agency with the responsibility to get to the bottom of the 
prices that were charged by contractors, to get to the bottom of the 
money that comes out of our Treasury for contractors--until yesterday.

The other agency involved is the GAO. I know the initials ''GAO'' are 
thrown around all the time. Let me explain what GAO is. GAO is the 
Government Accountability Office. They are what I would call the papa 
bear of auditors in Government. They are the auditors who look at all 
parts of Government, many times in response to a request by Congress 
but many times in response to a hotline call they have gotten from 
people within Government.

They start getting hotline calls about the practices at DCAA. This is 
enough to worry an auditing agency, that they are getting hotline calls 
on an auditing agency. This is enough to get their attention. So GAO 
started this audit of the Defense Contract Audit Agency based on 
complaints to their fraud hotline.

Here is the allegation. Are you ready for this? Here is the 
allegation: that these audits were being changed with no factual basis 
at the direction of supervisors, without evidence to support the 
changes, to help the contractors. This is a wildly sensational claim 
within the world of auditing. This is the kind of claim that, frankly, 
most auditors would probably not take seriously because it is so 
outrageous. But because there had been so many calls to the hotline, 
GAO went to work, over 100 interviews, months and months of work, and 
yesterday they issued their report.

They looked at 13 different audits named in the complaints and found 
that in every single audit, favorable findings for the contractors had 
no backup in the workpapers. What does that mean? If you are an 
auditor, your job is to find the facts. Everything you put in an audit 
has to be backed up by what are called workpapers. That means that 
anybody at any time could go in and find the factual evidence to 
support every line in the audit. That is part of Government auditing 
standards.

What else did GAO find? You are not going to believe this. You are 
not going to believe how bad this is. They found that supervisors 
dropped findings and changed opinions without the evidence to support 
it. They found several instances where auditors were threatened if they 
did not change their findings to support what the supervisors wanted 
and if they did not change their findings to favor the contractors. GAO 
found this practice to be so pervasive at two of the three locations, 
they called it ''a pattern of frequent management actions that served 
to intimidate auditors and create an abusive environment.'' These 
auditors were intimidated by supervisors and made to tell them what 
they were telling GAO. So not only were the supervisors on the auditors 
to do findings favorable to the contractors, they got on them when they 
started talking to GAO. They intimidated them into telling them what 
they were telling the investigators, the auditors from GAO. Their 
supervisors made them feel their jobs were threatened.

At one location, auditors were sometimes given 20 days to finish an 
audit, and if it wasn't enough time to do the audit work, they said: 
Just do it; just do it with what you have.

Supervisors admitted to not reviewing the workpapers. That doesn't 
sound like a big deal, right? Who reviews workpapers? Let me tell you, 
in the world of auditing, it is a very big deal.

This is how an audit works. The field auditors gather the papers, the 
factual information, and then it goes through a series of reviews and 
checks. It is ultimate quality control in an audit. It is unheard of 
for an audit to be issued without review up the line. That review is 
how you cull the information that is incorrect and make sure everything 
in that audit is factual and objective.

Here is a very good example of how serious and systemic the problem 
is. DCAA actually agreed with a contractor, one of the five largest 
contractors in the country, ahead of time what items would be reviewed 
for the audit. It is like giving a kid the answers to the test. There 
is no point in doing an audit if you tell the auditee ahead of time: 
OK, we are going to test you on this.

Here is the amazing thing. Even with the inside information, the DCAA 
auditors found the process to be inadequate with the contractor. Did 
they issue an unfavorable opinion? Oh, no, they didn't issue an 
unfavorable opinion. Instead, the auditor was removed by a supervisor. 
The new auditor was threatened with personnel action if the audit was 
not changed to favor the contractor.

In every single one, all 13 audits that were reviewed, the GAO found 
that Government auditing standards were not followed.

There is a book in auditing called the Yellow Book. It is the bible 
of auditing. It is the generally accepted Government auditing 
standards, and every Government auditor is required to follow these 
standards. Once again, auditors have a lot of professional pride about 
the objectivity of their work and about the standards they follow. It 
would not be effective if you had auditors who were auditing the 
government in Michigan and auditors who were auditing the government in 
San Francisco and auditors who were auditing the Pentagon all using 
different methodology to do audits. So this standard is, in fact, 
revered within the Government auditing world.

Here is what is amazing. Thirteen audits were looked at. Did one of 
them not meet standards? No. Did two of them not meet standards? No. 
Every single audit failed Government auditing standards--13 of 13, 100 
percent. This is mind-boggling, that we would have 3,500 people 
watching Defense Department contractors in this country and every audit 
that was looked at was failed by Government auditing standards. Nine of 
the thirteen had audit opinions changed without documentation and 
without workpapers to support the charges. Three had evidence that 
showed the DCAA auditor trying to perform his or her job and his 
independence impaired by his supervisors. Nine of the thirteen audits 
had conclusions that were not supported by the work performed by the 
auditors.


They got caught. They have gotten caught in what could be the biggest 
auditing scandal in the history of this town. And I am not 
exaggerating. I will guarantee you, as auditors around the country 
learn about this, they are going to have disbelief and raw anger that 
this agency has impugned the integrity of Government auditors 
everywhere by these kinds of irresponsible actions.

By the way, auditors are very conservative with other auditors. Every


auditing agency has peer review. By the way, GAO has always passed all 
of its peer review without any problem. But I know when we were getting 
peer reviewed when I was the State auditor in Missouri, it was a very 
nervous time because auditors come into your office from all over the 
country and they pore through your work. They go through your 
workpapers. They check all of your reviews. They, in fact, as an 
objective third party, look and make sure you are doing objective 
professional government auditing work. They are very conservative 
because it is peer to peer, right? It is hard to criticize your peers. 
It is hard to call out another auditor. That is why this is such a big 
deal. It is damning. This audit is damning of DCAA and the job it 
should be doing to protect Government taxpayers from the incredible 
waste and inefficiency in the contracting of the Department of Defense.

So when you get an audit, another part of the audit is you respond to 
the audit. The auditee gets an opportunity to speak in the audit. It is 
a very good thing because the auditee, if they firmly believe the audit 
is not justified, has an ability to give their side of the story. It 
also allows the opportunity to make sure you are exchanging 
information. So that response in the audit is also a part of Government 
auditing standards.

Let me tell you, when they got this audit, it was a dark day for 
them, and they had a choice. DCAA had a choice. They could have come 
forward and said: We have a big problem here and we have to clean 
house, and announced they were firing people in all of these offices 
and that supervisors were being fired and that they were going to clean 
up their act. That was one choice they had, to admit they had been 
caught in this scandal and to admit they would make it better. But what 
did they do? What did DCAA do as a result of this incredible audit 
report? They ''disagreed'' with the totality of the audit.

Here is what is so insulting about them disagreeing with the totality 
of the audit. They have no evidence to back it up. They have nothing to 
refute. The voluminous--this is not a small audit, this is page after 
page of documentation. They dispute the facts about the contractor 
being given prior notice that he would be audited in the above case 
even though there is clear evidence to support this conclusion in the 
DCAA workpapers.

They said, believe it or not--wait until you hear this:




 They are currently operating at a satisfactory level of 


 compliance with Government auditing standards.


Satisfactory? Thirteen out of thirteen failing Government standards, 
and that is satisfactory? How dare they. How dare they say that is 
satisfactory. They flatly stated they don't believe any supervisors 
harassed or intimidated staff or willfully removed findings. The 
evidence is there. The fact they are denying the evidence is there 
shows the level of dysfunction in this auditing agency. They don't seem 
to be too concerned about zero percent of these audits meeting 
Government standards.

The Department of Defense has been on the high-risk list of this 
Government for more than a decade. Scandal after scandal has rolled out 
of the Department of Defense on contracting.


I took a trip to Iraq on contract oversight, and with an auditor's 
eye, meeting with the people who oversee the contracts in Iraq. And I 
will tell you conservatively--and auditors are very conservative--
conservatively, I think we have burned up more than $150 billion in 
pure contracting abuse.

We have had hearings where weapon system after weapon system comes in 
100 percent more expensive, 3 or 4 years off time. And all this time we 
have been wasting hundreds and billions of dollars, the fox was in the 
chicken coop. The Defense Contracting Auditing Agency has been indicted 
in the strongest terms by their peers at GAO.

This situation demands hearings. And if somebody doesn't lose their 
job at DCAA before nightfall, the problem is more serious than anybody 
in this Chamber can possibly imagine. Because they think they can sweat 
it out. They think we are not going to pay attention. They think we are 
going to move on to the next headline, the next campaign stop. They 
think we are so worried about all the other problems that no one is 
going to notice this auditing agency has been disclosed and exposed as 
being fundamentally corrupt in the way they issue audits.

It calls into question every single audit done by this agency. And if 
we don't take it seriously, if we don't give it our attention, if we 
don't demand that the fox get out of the chicken coop, and we start 
taking care of taxpayer dollars, ultimately it is our national 
security. All of the needs we have for our men and women who fight for 
us, all the needs of our active military, all the technology we need to 
stay secure and safe, all of it is so important to our Nation. Yet what 
we have found out in the last 24 hours is no one is paying attention to 
the way we are spending that money. It makes me sick to my stomach.

I am angry. And I will tell you, this Senator is not going away on 
this issue. If I have to stand on this floor every day for the next 6 
months, I will do it, to get someone fired at that agency and to get 
them to clean up their act.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.