---
---

# None
## `1833120f20e38ee2937fad46d84a84c5`
`Mr. MITCHELL — 19 March 2010`

---


Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize an outstanding 
member of the Armed Forces from my home State of Arizona. Each month, 
Scottsdale Healthcare honors military personnel who perform diligent 
service to this country. For the month of March Scottsdale Healthcare 
has recognized Captain Randolph E. Derr.

 I commend Scottsdale Healthcare for recognizing Captain Derr for his 
life-saving service to our country.

 Captain Derr recently completed a yearlong tour as a critical care 
nurse at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany. While there 
Captain Derr provided life-saving care to wounded service members 
suffering from combat injuries, including traumatic amputations, burns, 
head injuries, and fractures. For his outstanding service, Captain Derr 
was awarded the Army Commendation Medal. This was Captain Derr's third 
post-9/11 deployment which included a year in Afghanistan and eight 
months in Kuwait.

 In his new role as a clinical educator for the Military Partnership 
Training Program at Scottsdale Healthcare, Captain Derr will use the 
experience he acquired during his deployments to educate military 
medical personnel about wartime medical skills. His efforts will 
advance the critical care skills of deploying military personnel and 
improve the medical readiness of our Nation.

 Madam Speaker, please join me in recognizing a truly outstanding 
Army Nurse for serving our country and caring for fellow service men 
and women in combat.
