# None
## `1836a95884f974e60f1f05ff64e9feb0`
`Mr. OLSON — 15 December 2010`

---


Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Navy Petty 
Officer 3rd Class Zarian Wood of Houston, Texas.

Zarian, known as ''Z'' to his friends, was killed on May 16, 2010, in 
a bomb blast during a foot patrol in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. He 
was 29 years old.

After serving in combat in Iraq from 2007 to 2008, Zarian volunteered 
for a second combat tour. This tour sent him on a 7-month stint to 
Afghanistan, where he was assigned to India Company, 3rd Battalion, 1st 
Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force.

Z was trained to be a hospital corpsman, the first out of the foxhole 
to rush to a wounded comrade. Well, in Afghanistan, he was known as 
''Doc,'' serving on the front lines alongside Marine infantrymen from 
Camp Pendleton, California.

Z was a 1999 graduate of South Houston High School, where he competed 
on the Trojan wrestling team. After high school, Z worked as a youth 
pastor and tutor for at-risk children on Houston's northeast side and 
as a merchandiser for Coca-Cola before enlisting in the Navy in 2006.

Z was known for living life to the fullest. His life embodies the 
fabric of the exceptional men and women who comprise our U.S. military. 
He is the embodiment of the honorable, courageous, and patriotic young 
Americans we are privileged to have defending our country. His selfless 
heroism, both as a civilian and in the military, created a legacy of 
courage and patriotism that will not be forgotten by those who knew 
him.

The liberty we cherish in this Nation has come at a great cost. 
Zarian and his family have paid the ultimate price for our freedom--but 
it is not without the tremendous gratitude of this Nation, this 
Congress, and this Congressman.

Mr. Speaker, America cannot repay the debt we owe to Zarian and his 
family. What can we do?



We can say thank you, thank you, thank you to Z for his selfless 
commitment to serve our Nation and thank you, thank you, thank you to 
his family for raising such a strong, wonderful and selfless Navy hero.

Zarian Wood is a true patriot, and a grateful Nation says: Semper Fi, 
fair winds and following seas.

Z, may you find eternal peace in God's arms.