---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `18379863eb9e8d095ac95c94104c16d9`
`Mr. STEVENS — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I want to state my support for the 
Department of Defense conference agreement that is before the Senate 
today. As we have done for so many years, my good friend from Hawaii, 
Senator Inouye, and I have worked in a bipartisan manner with our 
counterparts in the House to draft an agreement that meets the needs of 
the military. This bill balances our priorities for funding, pay, and 
benefits to the military and civilian personnel, maintaining force 
readiness in the operating accounts, and providing significant 
investment for the modernization of weapons systems. I strongly support 
the defense side of this bill.

I remain deeply disturbed by what is not included in the bill. What 
is missing from the conference agreement is what is known as the bridge 
fund or supplemental appropriations to support our troops in the field. 
For each of the last 3 years, and in the current CR, the bridge funding 
for the costs of operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world 
have been included, until a full supplemental bill could be considered 
has passed the Congress in the Spring.

This has been a difficult matter for us to deal with. I was 
unsuccessful in the defense conference in adding $70 billion as a 
bridge fund. As I understand it, the House has indicated they will 
bring forth a stand-alone bridge fund bill to be considered by the 
Congress as early as next week. As a matter of fact, it may be tomorrow 
that they take it up. I have not seen any action yet to assure that we 
will get a clean bridge fund bill that can be signed by the President. 
This bothers me considerably.

The continuing resolution attached to this bill does not contain a 
bridge fund. As I said, every defense bill since fiscal year 2005 has 
included a bridge fund that funded contingency operations. 
Unfortunately, the absence of this bridge fund leaves the Department 
will be forced to divert money from their regular accounts to fund 
overseas operations. They will also be forced to reprogram money from 
the Defense bill itself in order to cover the problems of the men and 
women in the field.

I have said I would offer a motion to invoke rule XXVIII against this 
bill, but upon reflection and after talking to the people in the 
administration, the intention is to allow that this Defense bill to be 
passed because there are overwhelming problems in the Defense 
Department itself.

So contrary to my own deep thoughts about the lack of the bridge 
fund, I think, considering the matter of all of those people who serve 
us, it is essential we get the Defense bill itself passed. It will give 
us the basic funds to continue the ongoing operations for a limited 
period of time.

It bothers me that without the bridge fund--the Congress has failed 
to recognize the overall process of supporting our deployed forces and 
replacing worn equipment. These effort are at risk for being delayed, 
when this bridge fund is not provided. The current CR, which contains 
funding for our deployed forces, runs out on the 16th of this month.

I say to the Senate, it is a great risk we are taking, a great risk 
not to fund the people who are serving valiantly overseas. These people 
ought to be the first under consideration. Unfortunately, we are 
presented with a dichotomy of protecting the whole of the Department of 
Defense and getting the bill to the President to be signed, as opposed 
to having the additional moneys necessary to continue to support those 
overseas.

In the past 3 years, as I said, we have included a bridge fund. 
Without this funding, the Department of Defense will now have to divert 
money, reprogram money from this bill we are going


to pass, to fund overseas operations. Those operations cost about 
approximately $13 billion a month. That is money that is necessary to 
keep the people who are in the field now, sustain the rotation of those 
forces, and ensure that they have the equipment that they need. A 
significant portion of that money is dedicated to the troops and their 
families as they come home. It costs much more to bring a soldier or 
Marine back and put that person back into their unit and take care of 
all the medical problems associated with returning personnel as it does 
to send someone over.

The difficulty is without a bridge fund those people are going to be 
the first ones harmed. We still have time. This is the point just made 
to me--we still have time before November 16 to pass a clean bridge 
fund, one without bells and whistles, one without political concepts in 
it, one without telling the President to end a war he can't end.

I do hope the Senate understands we should not have a political 
dispute bar us from supporting those people who have volunteered. This 
is a total volunteer military. They have depended upon us to support 
them. We have until November 16 to do what we should do, and that is 
pass a bridge bill.

I do hope the House will keep its word to us and send us a bridge 
bill. No matter what happens between the White House and the Congress 
and the parties within the Congress, we should not lose sight of the 
fact that those people have volunteered to serve this country, they are 
there, some of them are coming back, and others are going over to take 
their place until this issue is settled. I, for one, hope it is settled 
as soon as possible, but I do not believe we can solve the problem by 
denying the Department the money it needs to support those in the 
field.

We have men and women in uniform in 146 countries today. It is not 
just Iraq and Afghanistan. These servicemembers are still chasing 
terrorists around the world. I think we send the wrong message to the 
deployed troops who have volunteered for duty if we neglect them. This 
will be the first time we have done that.


By not raising the point of order I am relying upon what I believe is 
a commitment of the House to send us a bridge bill, a bridge bill that 
can be passed and signed by the President by the 16th, by the time the 
current CR expires. I do not believe we can ignore our commitments to 
our forces overseas, and I do hope the Senate will join us in agreeing 
to pass a bridge bill that is not political.

I know my friend, and I disagreed on the basic concept of entering 
this war. But after the troops were there, we have set aside any 
political differences and decided our job was to make sure the 
volunteers who commit themselves, commit their lives and put them at 
stake, are going to get what they need so long as the Commander in 
Chief orders them to do what he has the power to do under the 
Constitution, and that is to represent this country in events taking 
place in Iraq, Afghanistan, and throughout the world.

These are very complicated times. We are reading what is going on in 
Pakistan, which impacts our operations in Afghanistan. When we were 
there the last time I was there, the one thing they wanted was support 
for helicopters and equipment to assist in the war on terrorism.

I remind my colleagues there is more than $11 billion in this package 
for mine resistance, ambush protected, or MRAP vehicles. Senator Inouye 
and I totally support that concept. But force protection for the troops 
goes far beyond the vehicles in which they ride. It includes everything 
from body armor to helmets, to ballistic eye protection, aircraft 
survivability equipment, to improved sensors, communications for better 
situational awareness--all of that should be in the bridge fund that is 
not here.

I am disturbed with myself, as a matter of fact, to a certain extent, 
that I am not going to raise that point of order. But you have to weigh 
this, now, as to what is in the best interests of the people in 
uniform.

We are not saying today there is not going to be a bridge fund. We 
are saying we will pass this bill now, but we are committing 
ourselves--I am committing myself to do everything possible to get a 
bridge fund passed by November 16.

We do not want to send the wrong message to our people deployed. The 
interesting thing about it--I have spent the last few evenings, quite 
late into the morning, watching this marvelous public television series 
called ''The War.'' That was our war, Senator Inouye's war, and my war. 
As a matter of fact, Senator Inouye has a dramatic presentation in that 
series, and I applaud him for that. But the difference between that war 
and this war, these conflicts in which we are involved now, is 
overwhelming.

I remember leaving Miami and calling my aunt and uncle, with whom I 
lived, then when I came back from China, calling them from Hawaii, 
almost 2 years later. There was no communication--no phones, no e-
mails, no messages. Once in a while, about twice a month maybe, a 
letter or a package.

This is a different concept. These people overseas can hear us now. 
They are going to get e-mails today saying the Senate did not pass that 
bridge bill. They are watching us--and they should. They have every 
right to watch us, and their families do too.

I think to do anything less than passing this bridge bill before we 
go home for Thanksgiving--to me, it would be irresponsible. We have to 
keep our commitment to these people. The $70 billion that is available 
to the Department of Defense under the current CR, it ought to remain 
available to them until we pass the main supplemental, which the 
Congress will take up sometime in March or April.

I do hope the Senate will understand what we are doing. We have a 
bill today, which includes the Continuing Resolution, that has a great 
many provisions in it that we didn't have much to do with here in the 
Senate. The Senate is on warning that it could well become surplusage 
in the processes of the Congress if we let this happen again. These 
items were entered into the conference report entirely separate from 
the defense bill that is before us tonight. Rule XXVIII is supposed to 
bar that. The exigencies of the situation now are such that we must let 
the Defense bill go to the President in order to achieve our goal of 
supporting the activities of the Department of Defense.

It is with reluctance I urge my colleagues to support this bill, send 
it to the President for his signature--which I am assured will happen. 
If we don't stand up as a Senate and support our troops, we will be 
neglecting our duty.

We have duties here too. We support the Constitution, and the 
Constitution gives the President of the United States power to send 
troops overseas whether we like it or not. As a matter of fact, we 
passed the resolution to make sure the President had that power and 
then asked him to do it.

So under these circumstances, we should not neglect those people who 
are overseas, who are wearing our uniform and putting their lives at 
risk on a daily basis. I do hope the Senate will take notice that we 
cannot let this become a common practice, we cannot neglect our job in 
terms of having the Congress consider the things we believe are 
absolutely necessary for our country.

The only reason I do not do it now is this gap between now and a week 
from now on November 16. We have the time to pass a bridge bill. We 
have the time to authorize the money that is needed to support these 
people during our absence on what we call the Thanksgiving recess. I 
hope and I pray to God we will do it. We must do it. It is on that 
basis that I do not raise a point of order.