---
---

# HONORING THE MEMORY OF SECOND LIEUTENANT PETER H. BURKS
## `183a0ca2dc2838da9c1603138ea7004c`
`Mr. HALL of Texas — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. HALL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I am honored to stand today to 
celebrate the life of a young man who made the ultimate sacrifice, 
giving his life in defense of our Nation.

Second Lieutenant Peter H. Burks, 26, of Dallas, Texas, died November 
14 in Baghdad, Iraq, of wounds suffered when his vehicle struck an 
improvised explosive device. He was assigned to the 4th Squadron, 2nd 
Stryker Cavalry Regiment, Vilseck, Germany.

Pete answered the call of service to his country in April of 2006 
when he proudly enlisted in the United States Army. In October of that 
same year he was commissioned as an officer. Pete was no ordinary 
leader. He used his warm personality and keen sense of humor to inspire 
others. He received numerous awards, ribbons and medals, including the 
Bronze Star, Purple Heart and Combat Action Badge.

Pete's parents have shared with my office correspondence which speaks 
volumes about the character of this fallen soldier. Last year he wrote 
to his mother, ''Dad taught me how to reason, think logically and gave 
me a thirst for knowledge. You (Mom) gave me a fiery passion, a 
competitive streak, and most importantly, you taught me the importance 
of knowing the Lord.''

An excerpt from Pete's emails to his fiancee, Melissa Haddad, 
includes the following: ''I know that regardless of the circumstances, 
God is putting me EXACTLY where he wants me for the time being. I know 
that that is hard to swallow, but it is the truth . . . I will do my 
best and work to glorify God in all that I do. So long as I do that, I 
have accomplished the real mission that has been set out for me.''

Pete answered the call to duty, accomplished his missions to the best 
of his ability, and has now been called home to the Lord. He leaves 
behind his fiancee, Melissa Haddad; his mother Jackie Merck; father 
Alan and stepmother Laura Burks; sisters Ali, Sarah and Georgia Burks; 
brother Zac Burks; grandmother Irene Merck; grandfather Haskell Burks; 
other family members and a multitude of friends both within and outside 
the service.

Madam Speaker, Second Lieutenant Peter Burks was a true American 
hero. As we honor all of America's fallen soldiers on this coming 
Memorial Day, let us pay tribute to this fine soldier and offer our 
deepest condolences to his family and friends. May God bless all those 
who serve in our Armed Forces and who defend our Nation around the 
globe, and may the memory of Peter Burks live forever in the hearts of 
all those who knew him and loved him.
