---
---

# FOCUSING ON MOVING FORWARD
## `18462f69dda89a27711b26510f1bd769`
`Mr. GILCHREST — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. GILCHREST. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Israel for yielding, and this 
evening we are here as Members of Congress. Mr. Israel from New York, 
Mr. Lampson from Texas, Mr. Dent from Pennsylvania, myself from 
Maryland and other Members will be here shortly from the various 
corners of this country, and we're here because we know that tonight a 
young American soldier may be on patrol somewhere in Iraq and there may 
be a landmine that he will run over. There will be Iraqi children that 
may get caught in the terrible crossfire. There may be Iraqi students 
on their way to a school or university that may be caught in a horrific 
explosion from a suicide bomber. Those kinds of things are unfolding in 
Afghanistan and, to some extent, those kinds of things are unfolding 
throughout the very difficult places in the world.

This institution, the House of Representatives, has a history of 
integrity. This Nation is based on the philosophy of integrity, and 
American citizens, the broad breadth of humans across the globe have, 
for centuries, had an assumption that this institution was competent, 
informed and rested on that philosophy of integrity that buttressed the 
concept of freedom and justice and dignity.



This cannot happen with a partisan divide. This cannot happen with 
people talking about the Democrats or the Republicans. We are not 
Democrats. We're not Republicans. We are Members of Congress 
representing constituencies that assume or, at least up until recently, 
they assumed that we were here for that philosophy of integrity. We 
were here to work hard, to work together, to integrate that integrity 
amongst the vast areas of this country, not just to be a Republican and 
find some mythical icon Republican that you are supposed to obey or 
some mythical icon Democrat that you were supposed to obey.

But Americans need more than that. Americans deserve more than that. 
That young soldier in that armored vehicle riding down the road in Iraq 
right now deserves more than that, and each of us, not only should, we 
must have a sense of urgency to fulfill our obligation and 
responsibility.

Mr. Israel and Mr. Lampson and Mr. Dent will talk about that we have 
come together here fairly recently in the Halls of Congress to 
represent the sense that this institution is going to have an impact in 
a very positive way on this world that's laying out before us, and as 
we progress this evening as each of us discusses these issues, we will 
talk specifically about Iraq. But I want to make sure, Mr. Speaker, 
that as we speak about Iraq and this war, this is not our grandfather's 
war of World War I. This is not our grandfather's war of World War II, 
where you had a million Russian soldiers moving toward Berlin, you had 
a million American and Canadian and British soldiers moving toward 
Berlin, where the public could follow it on little wiggly lines in the 
newspaper every day to see how they were advancing. This is a war of 
insurgents where there are no cities to firebomb. There are no million 
troops to deal with this particular issue.

This is a war of insurgency. And how have these wars gone on in the 
past? They are wars that are complex and need the initiative, the 
ingenuity, the utmost intellect and courage of this institution to 
bring it to a successful conclusion.

I would agree with many Members who have talked about this, that we 
can't have 535 Secretaries of Defense. That's true. We should not have 
535 Secretaries of State, and that's true. But this is not our 
grandfather's war. This is a war where Members of Congress need to know 
their counterparts in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in Israel, in Jordan and 
Syria and Saudi Arabia, in Iran. This is a war where the integration of 
integrity of people from across the world need to understand each other 
in an ongoing deep and abiding dialogue.

This is so important for Members of Congress to be involved in this 
kind of conflict because it's not a million-man army against a million-
man army. This is a war that involves culture, ancient cultures. This 
is a war that involves politics. It's a war that involves economics. 
It's a war that involves geography. It's essentially a war where 
there's very little understanding. There's almost complete 
misunderstanding.

So an institution like the House of Representatives, working together 
can resolve this conflict. This conflict cannot be resolved, there is 
no reconciliation, without a dialogue of integrity across these great 
divides.

I want to thank Mr. Israel and the other gentlemen that are here 
tonight to bring this dialogue, raise this discussion, this debate 
about this war to a new and higher and much-needed level.