---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `184c4220eab8177321f6366234c8b15b`
`Mr. OBEY — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 4 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I understand that at the end of the debate the closing 
speech on the Republican side will be given by our good friend from 
Texas Mr. Johnson. I think everyone in this place respects him and 
loves him.

I must say that having gone through this for the last 3 weeks trying 
to talk to each and every person who I could reach about this measure 
has given me a profound respect for a good many Members of this 
institution whom I had not known before, especially the newcomers.

The caucus that we had this morning was one of the most moving 
experiences that I have ever felt in my 38 years in the Congress. I 
heard Member after Member stand up and discuss this issue as a matter 
of high principle; but they also discussed it in terms of what the 
impact of their votes would be, not on themselves, but on the people of 
this country, on the soldiers who are fighting in the field, on the 
people in Iraq, and on our country's ability to influence the world.

This is a very tough issue. There are many considerations that each 
of us brings to this judgment, but in the end, I think we have a 
choice. As I said earlier today, we have a choice in determining what 
kind of Congress this is going to be. We can continue the practices of 
the past which rubberstamped virtually everything the President wanted 
on Iraqi policy. We can continue to do what he wants and only what he 
wants and only when he wants to do it and only in the way he wants to 
do it; or we can do what our Founding Fathers envisioned when they 
created the Congress. We can exercise checks and balances in order to 
try to move policy into a more constructive direction for this country.

If you oppose this bill today, and if you take the position that all 
it should contain is what the President sent down, then you would be 
saying that you wanted to finance BRAC, the base-closing program, by 
gutting key education programs as the President recommends. You would 
be opposed to additional border security, additional port security and 
additional cargo security.

You would be opposed to finally, after all of the horrendous pictures 
and all of the horrendous human suffering, you would be opposed to 
finally meeting our total obligations to the victims of Katrina.

You would be opposed to asking for the money which the President 
himself asked that we provide in 2005 on an emergency basis to prepare 
this country to meet the pandemic flu epidemic which will surely at 
some time come.

You would be opposing the additional $3.5 million that we have 
provided in this bill for veterans' health care and defense health 
care, and you would be opposing the timelines and the benchmarks which 
we place in this legislation, not because they are so perfect, but 
because they are the instrument by which we communicate to the Iraqi 
politicians that they must begin to resolve their differences, they 
must step up, because we are not going to run our baby-sitting service 
forever.

It is imperative that we finally send that signal. The President 
cannot send


that signal, but we can help General Petraeus. We can help our own 
government by sending the signal that this Congress is going to play 
bad cop until the Iraqis get the message.

That is what Mr. Murtha's efforts have been about, that is what mine 
have been about, that's what the Speaker's efforts have been about, and 
that's what the efforts have been about by virtually every person in 
this caucus and this House who has had a say in what this bill was 
going to contain.

I strongly urge an ''aye'' vote.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.