# None
## `184decb05a634d20c2f5d25984af5c9c`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 8 April 2008`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, as we mark the fifth anniversary of 
the ill-planned and ill-executed war in Iraq, I rise to draw thc 
House's attention to two articles from the Chicago Tribune about the 
lasting damage done by the conflict.








 [From the Chicago Tribune, Mar. 16, 2008]

 By Any Calculus, War's Cost Cruel: Politics, Money, Blood--All Show a 













Painful Bottom Line














(By David Greising)




 It's a cold calculus, trying to estimate the cost of a war.



 What is an Iraqi life worth? The life of an American GI? 


 It's no easier estimating the value of removing Saddam 


 Hussein from power than it is calculating the sum cost of 


 lifetime health care for a host of disabled American 


 soldiers.



 When politicians talk about the war's costs in terms of 


 lives and treasure, they don't necessarily expect someone to 


 actually pull out a spreadsheet and start running the 


 numbers.



 But that is what has happened with the Iraq war. And as we 


 approach the 5-year anniversary of the initial March 20, 


 2003, ''shock and awe'' aerial assault on Baghdad, it is 


 worth noting an important shift in the accounting of the 


 conflict's cost.



 Those who opposed the war are finding that the costs far 


 exceeded anything they would have expected, or might have 


 argued, at the time the conflict started. The most notable 


 and authoritative such argument is put forward by Nobel 


 Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz, who puts an eye-


 grabbing, ultimate bottom line on the seemingly endless U.S. 


 commitment to Iraq: at least $3 trillion. That's trillion, 


 with a ''T.''



 Those who argued during the run-up to war that armed 


 conflict would be more economical than the cost of containing 


 Hussein have shifted fields. Instead of arguing, as some once 


 did, that America's Iraq adventure might actually turn a 


 profit once the country's vast oil wealth began to flow, they 


 now put forward a more nuanced argument.



 On a purely fiscal basis, they now acknowledge, the war has 


 been at best a wash. But looked at as a total package--taking 


 into account the benefits of removing a tyrant from power and 


 thrusting Iraq into its post-Hussein period, however bloody 


 and chaotic--they say armed intervention was still the more 


 attractive alternative.



 A trio of University of Chicago economists sought to 


 estimate the cost of containing Hussein had there been no 


 U.S.-led invasion. Their 2006 paper pegged it at $700 billion 


 over an unspecified period of years.



 That estimate figures in the extra U.S. military equipment 


 and manpower that would have been needed to keep Hussein 


 within his borders and keep his hands off Kuwait. It includes 


 the cost of weapons inspection programs, of economic 


 boycotts, of oil that would remain in the ground and a rate 


 of premature Iraqi deaths ranging from 10,000 to 30,000 per 


 year, based on Hussein's bloody track record and 


 mismanagement of the country.



 ''When people talk about the cost of war, as an economist, 


 you have to ask, 'In comparison to what?''' said Kevin 


 Murphy, one of the U. of C. economists.



 Though he faults President Bush for errors in execution, he 


 believes war was the better option.



 ''I don't hear Joe Stiglitz saying the best world is the 


 world where Saddam stays around as long as possible because 


 it costs too much to make him leave,'' Murphy said.



 He has a fair point. Stiglitz spends little time 


 contemplating either the economic or moral consequences of 


 allowing Hussein to remain in power. Perhaps that is because 


 Stiglitz cannot take his eyes off the financial and human 


 catastrophe that is unfolding before the nation's eyes.



 Bringing important new scholarship to the book ''The Three 


 Trillion Dollar War: The True Cost of the Iraq Conflict,'' 


 Stiglitz and co-author Linda Bilmes spend little time 


 contemplating what-ifs. Instead they turn a calculating eye 


 to the economic consequences of the American military 


 invasion--and to the vital policy considerations presented by 


 both its financial and human costs.



 There is the expected, grim accounting that any actuary 


 might calculate. The cost of 4,000 American troops' lives, 


 for example, runs to roughly $28 billion. War outlays have 


 added $1 trillion to the national debt, and could run to $2 


 trillion over time, the authors calculate.



 One of the most important calculations is an aspect of the 


 war often ignored by the politicians and pundits who are not 


 quite as handy with a calculator as Stiglitz is: The 


 staggering, long-term toll of veterans' health care, 


 disability benefits and Social Security disability pay. Add 


 them up, and even in a best-case scenario they amount to $371 


 billion, according to the authors' calculations.



 Stiglitz expected his calculations would come under 


 criticism, as they have. But he said the larger purpose--


 putting some price tag on the war--is important.



 ''The public ought to have some accounting of the costs,'' 


 he said in an interview.



 ''Obviously, after Pearl Harbor, you wouldn't sit down and 


 say, 'How are we going to respond?''' Stiglitz said. ''But 


 this was a war of choice. We didn't have to go to war. We had 


 a choice of timing, and a choice of whether to go to war at 


 all.''



 The debate is not purely among economists, obviously. But 


 even among political scientists who supported the war, 


 Stiglitz's view is starting to take hold.



 Michael O'Hanlon, a security expert at the Brookings 


 Institution who runs a project that compiles all manner of 


 data on present-day Iraq--from military and civilian deaths 


 to commodity costs to public opinion--said he cannot ignore 


 the negatives: a huge increase in violence in Iraq, the lack 


 of political stability, the inability to find weapons of mass 


 destruction and oil prices at $110 a barrel.



 O'Hanlon supported the initial American invasion, and he 


 gave carefully delineated backing to the troop surge a year 


 ago. Today, though, ''common sense ultimately pushes me 


 toward the Stiglitz view if I had to look at just the bottom 


 line,'' O'Hanlon said.



 The question for Americans, ultimately, no longer is 


 whether going to war made sense. Today, as we head toward the 


 presidential election, the question is whether we keep U.S. 


 troops in Iraq or start bringing them back.



 Based on governmental budget figures, several economists 


 have put the cost of the Iraq war at $12 billion a month. 


 Stiglitz figures the actual cost probably is at least twice 


 that.



 And putting a final fiscal argument to the test, Stiglitz 


 invokes a tenet of economics that is hammered home at the U. 


 of C. business school itself: The fallacy of the ''sunk 


 cost.''



 People throw good money after bad, in hopes of recovering 


 what they first invested, even though every new dollar just 


 perpetuates a lost cause.



 Five years into the war, Americans must decide whether we 


 are caught up in a sunk-cost fallacy. But in this case, the 


 cost is not counted just in dollars and cents. It is tallied 


 in the impact on American security, and in the cost of 


 American and Iraqi lives.