# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `1855a7603f88938618856b03357344e7`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2346, the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009. The funding in this bill will 
provide our men and women in uniform the tools they need to protect our 
nation, while recognizing the sacrifices they and their families have 
made for this country.

Unlike past war funding supplementals, this year's measure will focus 
on supporting a clear plan for ending the war in Iraq and bringing our 
men and women home safely and responsibly. This will be balanced with 
adequate resources to support a ''whole of government'' approach to 
combat Al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan and to support our 
allies in Pakistan as they fight a violent insurgency that threatens to 
envelop their country.

This supplemental also supports Congress's critical oversight 
responsibilities by requiring the President to report on the 
performance of the governments of Afghanistan and Pakistan in five key 
areas by February of 2010. This will allow the Congress to evaluate the 
effectiveness of our new strategy in Afghanistan and ensure that we are 
providing everything troops need to get the job done.

On the home front, the supplemental ensures that our nation is ready 
to respond to a full flu pandemic by providing funding for anti-viral 
drug and vaccine stockpiles as well as assisting state and local 
responders with the tools to fight such an outbreak.

This bill ensures the safety of our nation by balancing our war 
efforts overseas with disaster response at home, and I urge passage of 
H.R. 2346.