---
---

# FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2010 AND 2011
## `186d99ae78a63ba69866909027e6bbab`
`Mr. ACKERMAN — 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. ACKERMAN. I rise in strong support of H.R. 2410, the Foreign 
Relations Authorizations Act. And I want to commend our chairman, the 
gentleman from California, for his commitment to this legislation, 
which I believe is a reflection of the gentleman's enormous dedication 
to this institution and its role under the Constitution.

For many years, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act has been held 
hostage to debates about abortion and family planning, to the inability 
of the other body to get 60 of their Members to agree to anything, and 
to a general feeling that it just wasn't essential to do. The result 
has been an insidious decay of the effectiveness of our diplomatic 
capabilities and our capacity to influence events around the world.

Some might ask, what does this have to do with my constituents? Isn't 
that why we have a strong military to protect us? Isn't that their 
role? The simple answer is that our diplomats and our development 
professionals are not a luxury, nor a fancy affectation of power. These 
are not aristocrats sipping tea while wearing striped pants and ascots. 
These are people who are on the front line of our defense. Not the 
Army, not the Navy, not the Air Force, the Marines, or the Coast Guard; 
it is the Foreign Service that lives always full time out in the ugly 
and dangerous parts of the world representing our interests, building 
alliances, monitoring and reporting on events that may affect our 
security, and helping to defuse crises and tensions before they 
sometimes burst into armed conflict or war.



There is a simple reason that both the Secretary of Defense Gates and 
Admiral Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have 
repeatedly and passionately insisted on the necessity of rebuilding and 
strengthening the State Department. It will save the lives of the 
people for whom they are responsible. It will allow the Armed Forces to 
avoid conflict. It will shorten conflicts by allowing our military to 
focus on security, not negotiations, not governance nor development.

In this respect, the title of the bill may mislead some. The bill is 
not about foreign relations; it's really about our national security. 
Our national security. It's about the safety of this Nation and our 
ability to protect and advance our interests around the world. Military 
power is essential. The United States would not be the country that it 
is if we did not have such an extraordinary military. But our Armed 
Forces exist chiefly to deter and defend. Whatever the last few years 
may have suggested, we are not a Nation that believes in starting wars 
to solve problems nor in the use of force to resolve political 
conflicts. A strong State Department and revitalized U.S. Agency for 
International Development are not favors that we do for others. These 
are institutions that are essential to our national security and our 
national interests. The bill is, in fact, merely a downpayment on a 
process of rebuilding that should have begun years ago.

So if you want to bring our troops home from Iraq, then you know that 
Iraqis have to improve their own internal cooperation and performance 
in their government. Who is supposed to help them with that? If you 
want to help Afghanistan and get our troops home from there, then you 
know that that problem is about poppy farming and police corruption 
that have to be addressed. Who is supposed to help them with that?

If you want to prevent Iran's nuclear program from setting off a 
chain reaction of proliferation, then you know that we're going to need 
a broad international coalition to stop them. Who's supposed to put it 
together and keep it together?

We can no afford a second-rate diplomatic corps any more than we can 
tolerate troops who are untrained, ships that are rusting or aircraft 
that are unmaintained. Our national security is a whole. We can't 
succeed with our military and fail with our diplomacy and development, 
and then hope to be safe. It doesn't work.

That's what this bill is about: keeping our nation safe. And it 
deserves the support of every Member.