---
---

# None
## `186f6b8100885b4fd613caa593749f47`
`Mr. DURBIN — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this debate is long overdue. It is time 
for us to let them know we are coming home. It is time for them to 
understand in Iraq that they have received more from the United States 
than any nation should ever ask or hope for. We have offered up our 
best and bravest men in uniform. We have brought home those broken in 
body and spirit and said we will stand by them the rest of their lives, 
knowing in the process the sacrifices that have been made by them and 
their families.

We have spent $500 billion, which might have been spent in this 
country for a lot of things we desperately need--health care, paying 
for No Child Left Behind, medical research, basic investments in this 
country's future. We have given up on them because we had to spend the 
money in Iraq, and we continue to.


When it comes to this bill, which we hope to send to the President, 
he has already dismissed it with a wave of the hand. I am going to veto 
this bill, he says. Well, he is going to be vetoing a bill which is 
critically important. It is important to tell the Iraqis they have to 
accept responsibility for their own future. It is important because it 
adds billions of dollars for medical care for our veterans, billions of 
dollars we need so we don't face that shameful situation at Walter Reed 
that was reported a few weeks ago, billions of dollars so our veterans 
hospitals can truly take care of these soldiers who are coming home 
with injuries that were unimaginable just years ago; a billion dollars 
for the National Guard to buy more equipment which has been destroyed 
or left behind in Iraq so they can keep America safe while they prepare 
for their next redeployment.

These are dollars that are critically necessary for America. For the 
President to just, with the back of his hand, say: I'm going to veto 
this because this is just a political game, is to ignore the obvious. 
There is no political gamesmanship in this bill. This is a critical, 
life-and-death debate about a lot of our brave Americans whose lives 
are on the line today.

I urge my colleagues, when this bill comes to the Senate, to search 
their hearts and ask, how many more days can we stand reading about 
nine Americans losing their lives? How many more funerals? How many 
more broken bodies returning from Iraq? How many more families heart 
broken that their soldiers are going to have to stay on and on and on 
in a war that has no end? This foreign policy decision is one that will 
haunt America for a generation. We need to do our part to speak for 
America, to speak for the families who have no other voice, and to 
speak for those soldiers. If we truly support those soldiers, support 
their coming back home to the heroes' welcome they deserve.

I yield the floor.














 Iraq Troop Withdrawal
