# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `187143c11663b20fc7400ececf5f273d`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 6 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I want to also acknowledge Mr. Marshall and the powerful 
sentiments he just shared with all of us. Mr. Speaker, this debate is 
long overdue. It is our first extended and substantive debate on the 
war in Iraq since Congress gave the President the authority to invade 
more than 4 years ago.

But if we do nothing more than debate the President's escalation 
plan, we will not keep faith with the American people who rightly 
expect this new Congress to bring our costly involvement in Iraq to a 
close. And while the resolution before us is largely symbolic and 
nonbinding, it can be, I think it should be, the opening part of a 
longer, thoughtful debate about our long-term national interests not 
only Iraq but the entire Middle East.

So this resolution is a start. And I will vote for it because I agree 
with the message it sends. The resolution expresses disapproval of the 
President's sending more troops to Iraq, an action that is contrary to 
the wise advice of the Iraq Study Group, critical members of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, and experienced military commanders like former 
Secretary of State Colin Powell.

The President's escalation is most likely too small to be effective, 
and adopting new counterinsurgency tactics comes 2 years too late. The 
resolution, in my opinion, represents the correct response to these 
facts. It expresses support for our brave men and women in uniform, but 
disagreement with the policy of military escalation.

Mr. Speaker, as we speak here today, the death toll in Iraq rises, 
and the war continues to drain our national Treasury, stretch our Armed 
Forces, and weaken our capacity to effectively counter Islamic 
terrorism. Congress needs to send the message that things must change.

I opposed the Bush administration's decision to go to war in Iraq, 
and I have never once regretted that vote. But today we must focus on 
the future. We cannot move the clock back, but we need to avoid making 
a bad situation worse. We should not be scaling up our military mission 
in Iraq, we should be scaling back. We need to make the U.S. military 
footprint lighter, not in order to hasten defeat or failure in Iraq, 
but to salvage a critical measure of security and stability in a region 
of the world that we can ill afford to abandon.

As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I know about the 
pressure on our active duty and National Guard and Reserve soldiers. 
They lack enough equipment and training. They are experiencing multiple 
or extended deployments and limited time at home between deployments. 
But to be successful our men and women must be properly trained, 
equipped, and ready to deploy worldwide quickly.

Shortfalls in personnel, equipment, or training increases the risk to 
our troops and to their mission. In short, this administration's 
policies have brought us to the point where we not only cannot sustain 
an escalation in Iraq, but also we are not fully prepared for other 
contingencies.

But that is not the only reason I oppose the escalation. I do not 
think the President's rationale for it makes sense, no matter our 
readiness levels. The just-released National Intelligence Estimate on 
Iraq agrees that the term ''civil war'' accurately describes what is 
happening in Iraq, and suggests that the conflict may in fact be worse 
than a civil war.

Putting more Americans at risk is not a recipe for victory. And as a 
new Foreign Relations Council report notes, we bear responsibility for 
developments within Iraq, but are increasingly without the ability to 
shape those developments in a positive direction.

So what should be the way forward? For one, I believe a reduction of 
military forces in Iraq and a phased redeployment of our Armed Forces 
to border regions like Anbar and the Kurdish areas of Iraq would be 
effective. That can give us flexibility to act militarily in Iraq if 
necessary, but will also increase the pressure on the Iraqi Government 
to move toward political reconciliation.

I do not think an immediate withdrawal of American forces or setting 
a date certain for withdrawal makes sense, but neither does an open-
ended commitment for American blood and treasure. And as bad as the 
situation is in Iraq, we must work to avoid a collapse in the region. 
Not only because we have a moral obligation to the people of Iraq, but 
also because our national security has been badly compromised by the 
Bush administration's failures.

We should adopt the main policy recommendations of the Iraq Study 
Group, including stronger efforts of diplomacy in the region. It is not 
in the interests of any nation to have Iraq descend into further civil 
war and chaos. As challenging as diplomacy is in the Middle East, I 
believe the sacrifice of our soldiers demand that we engage in serious 
regional talks, including those with our adversaries Syria and Iran.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, I am convinced we must reach for bipartisanship 
in crafting our policy in Iraq. Mr. Speaker, the stakes in Iraq are 
very high.


The outcome in this region will have consequences for future 
generations that will long outlive those of us who are in Congress 
today.

Great leaders acknowledge mistakes, learn and chart a new course. For 
the sake of future generations and to keep faith with the generations 
that built America, let us be a Nation of great leaders.

Mr. Speaker, this is the first significant debate we have had on the 
war in Iraq since Congress passed the President's request for an 
authorization to invade Iraq more than four years ago. And even though 
our debate today is on a largely symbolic question--a non-binding 
resolution disapproving the President's announced plan for moving 
additional troops to Iraq--I believe it ought to serve as the beginning 
of a deeper and more thoughtful debate about our long-term national 
interests in the Middle East, and Iraq.

If all we do is debate the wisdom of a surge, we will not keep faith 
with the American people, who rightly expect this new Congress to bring 
our costly involvement in the Iraq war to a close.

Nevertheless, I will support this resolution disapproving the 
president's call for additional troops in Iraq because it runs contrary 
to the wise advice of the Iraq Study Group (the Baker-Hamilton 
Commission), critical members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and 
experienced military commanders like former Secretary of State, Colin 
Powell, on the best strategic approach in Iraq. The President's plan 
calls for an infusion of additional soldiers--probably too few to have 
the desired outcome--and utilizing counterinsurgency tactics that are 
two years too late and that I believe will be ineffective in the 
context of the civil war that has emerged in Iraq.

We are also expecting General David Petraeus and our troops to 
operate under a complicated joint command structure with Iraqi forces 
and political leaders that is unprecedented in our military history and 
undermines the ''unity of command'' rule in warfare. And all this comes 
at a time when the death toll in Iraq is rising and the war continues 
to drain our national treasury, stretches our armed forces, and 
decreases--rather than enhances--our ability to wage an effective war 
against Islamic terrorism. Even as we debate a ''surge'' in Iraq, we 
should not forget Afghanistan. We will win there if we redouble our 
efforts now.

I opposed the Bush Administration's decision to go to war in Iraq and 
I have never once regretted that vote. Today, we cannot move the clock 
back, but we can surely avoid making a bad situation worse. We should 
not be scaling up our military mission in Iraq--we should be scaling 
back. We need to make the U.S. military footprint lighter--not in order 
to hasten defeat or failure in Iraq, but to salvage a critical measure 
of security and stability in a region of the world that we can ill 
afford to abandon.

I say this as a Member of the Armed Services Committee who 
understands the pressures on our active duty and National Guard and 
reserve soldiers, including a lack of equipment and training, multiple 
or extended deployments, and limited time at home between deployments. 
To be successful, U.S. forces must be trained, equipped, and ready to 
quickly deploy worldwide. Shortfalls in personnel, equipment, or 
training increase the risk to our troops and to their mission. By all 
measurements, we are not in a position to sustain an escalation of 
troops.

But I don't believe the President's rationale for the ''surge'' makes 
sense, no matter our readiness levels. The just-released National 
Intelligence Estimate on Iraq agrees that the term ''civil war'' 
accurately describes aspects of the Iraq conflict and goes further in 
suggesting that the conflict may in fact, be more complicated and worse 
than a civil war. Putting more American troops at risk in this kind of 
setting is not a recipe for victory; it is only a prescription for 
quagmire. As a new Foreign Relations Council report notes, we bear 
responsibility for developments within Iraq, but are increasingly 
without the ability to shape those developments in a positive 
direction.

So what should be the way forward? How should Congress respond?

I believe a policy aimed at escalating diplomatic and political 
efforts is preferable to one that continues to rely on our soldiers to 
carry the heavy burden of nation-building--a mission that soldiers are 
ill-equipped for without strong international support, particularly in 
the midst of civil war and sectarian violence. That is why I favor a 
reduction of military forces in Iraq, and a phased redeployment of our 
armed forces to border regions in places like Anbar province and the 
Kurdish areas of Iraq, which should give us some flexibility to respond 
militarily should circumstances require it, but will also increase the 
pressure on the Iraqi government to move toward political 
reconciliation and stability.

I do not believe an immediate withdrawal of American forces or 
setting a date certain for withdrawal makes sense, but neither does an 
open-ended commitment of American blood and treasure.

As bad as the situation is in Iraq, however, we must work to avoid a 
collapse in the region--not only because we have a moral obligation to 
the people of Iraq, but also because our national security has been so 
badly compromised by the Bush Administration's failures there. The 
President's decision to take the Nation to war has made our country 
less safe. We need to change course and chart a path that enhances our 
national security and sets the right priorities for the war on 
terrorism and struggle against extremists.

To do this, I believe Congress should pass a resolution that embodies 
the main policy elements of the Baker-Hamilton Commission, including a 
call for stronger efforts at diplomacy in the region and 
internationally. It is not in the interests of any nation to have Iraq 
descend into further civil war and chaos. As challenging as diplomacy 
is in the Middle East, I believe the sacrifice of our soldiers demands 
that we engage in serious regional talks, including talks with our 
adversaries, Syria and Iran.

Finally, I believe we must reach for bipartisanship in crafting our 
policy in Iraq. The President misguidedly took us into war on the eve 
of a bitter national election. We must try hard not to compound this 
error by turning a debate on Iraq into a partisan game of one-upmanship 
where legitimate disagreement with the Administration's plan for 
escalation is called a betrayal of our troops or where resistance to 
immediate withdrawal is called war-mongering.

For my part, I intend to speak out loudly and often for a responsible 
withdrawal strategy in Iraq, but I will also offer proposals that are 
aimed at finding common ground. I will be introducing legislation that 
looks beyond the ''surge'' and toward the necessary and inevitable 
contingency planning that will be needed if we are to avoid deeper and 
more catastrophic scenarios in Iraq and the region.

Mr. Speaker, the stakes in Iraq are very high. The outcome in this 
region will have consequences for future generations that will long 
outlive those of us who are in Congress today. Great leaders 
acknowledge mistakes, learn, and chart a new course. For the sake of 
future generations and to keep faith with the generations that built 
America, let us be a Nation of great leaders.