# None
## `187d0bb4f038a421cb83cf1f54877eaf`
`Ms. KAPTUR — 14 March 2007`

---


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Ryan) 
and also Congressman Kendrick Meek from Florida, two 30-somethings who 
are outstanding leaders in this Congress, bringing new energy and new 
vision. I thank them for yielding me this time.

We will have extensive debates on the budget concerning the 
supplemental request for the war in Iraq, the global war on terrorism, 
and other related measures tomorrow and later next week. But as we are 
debating this and looking at sending another $100 billion across the 
oceans, halfway around the world, to support our troops and to try to 
reach resolution to that conflict, I want to bring to the attention of 
the American people a very serious issue here at home, one that is 
making headlines all over the United States.

This is USA Today's headline, ''Record Foreclosures Reel Lenders,'' 
and ''Subprime Troubles Send Stocks Into Swoon.''

The issue of mortgages across this country going belly up by the 
thousands should be of concern to every Member of this Congress. The 
stock market this week has been roiled by concerns over the financial 
health of largely unregulated mortgage brokerage institutions that have 
been irresponsibly issuing mortgages in what is called the subprime 
market across this country and much of that market targets consumers 
with less than stellar credit ratings or who are at the margins of home 
ownership in this country.

They have been luring them into mortgages they can't afford, and as 
those mortgages adjust to higher interest rates in the third, fourth, 
fifth and subsequent years, they go belly up.

We saw yesterday the connection between the fast rate of foreclosures 
and the health of our economy when the Dow dropped 243 points as a 
reaction to the dramatic rise in these foreclosures. As USA Today 
recounts in the first paragraph, ''The reason many mortgage lenders are 
in trouble became alarmingly clear Tuesday. The Mortgage Bankers 
Association said more than 2.1 million Americans with a home loan 
missed at least one payment at the end of last year, and the rate of 
new foreclosures hit a record.''

Companies like New Century Financial, the Nation's second largest 
subprime lender, have quit making loans and are edging towards 
bankruptcy protection. There is a map in the article that shows certain 
States, and I am going to discuss my own now, that are far above the 
national average where we know thousands upon thousands of people are 
losing their homes.

Ohio was the number one State in the Union to date with these 
mortgage foreclosures, three times the national average. They are 
estimating that in the next year and a half, over 250,000 more home 
mortgages will reset, and they are estimating that the financing gap in 
Ohio for this year and next year now totals somewhere between $14 
billion and $21 billion. That is just Ohio. Add to it Alabama, Texas, 
Mississippi, Tennessee, Indiana, Michigan, West Virginia. This is a 
problem of national proportion.


There is plenty of blame to go around, but there is no question it is 
a serious issue that should be given primacy in this Congress.

I want to compliment the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Frank) for 
holding hearings yesterday on hedge funds, the unregulated part of the 
financial markets that is rather secretive. We don't know a lot about 
them, but we know many times they are involved with intertwining with 
these types of loans that have been going out into the marketplace.

We know our weak economy contributes to the situation, but also the 
failure of the past Congress as well as State legislatures to address 
predatory lending practices and to try to nip this problem in the bud 
before it became so much worse.

There is another side to this coin as well, and that is the large 
number of campaign contributions made by these hot-shot lending 
brokerage firms that have been making deals across this country; and 
that story, unfortunately, has to come out, too, and perhaps why some 
lawmakers have been unwilling to grapple with the magnitude of this 
problem and prevent the kind of foreclosures that are going on across 
the country.

Let me say that this USA Today article and the U.S. Department of 
Housing and Urban Development have a phone number that I urge citizens 
to call: 888-995-HOPE. 888-995-HOPE.

This line will connect those who are concerned about losing their 
homes to foreclosure with foreclosure prevention counselors nationwide. 
That is something we can do immediately. In the measure we will pass 
next week, we will make every effort possible to put in housing 
counseling money, and I would urge the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development to target those dollars to the areas that are just bleeding 
with foreclosure after foreclosure after foreclosure.

State and local governments could do a lot to help homeowners find 
help also, particularly in working out financing deals. I think Wall 
Street is going to have to take some losses. They ought to take them 
earlier rather than later. We ought to package some of this debt, and 
we ought to find a way to eat some of it and move some of those 
egregious profits they are making into filling the financing gap, 
because what good will it do for us to have millions of housing units 
across this country vacant? It is not going to help anybody.

We know in these subprime markets, they don't set aside escrow money 
for property taxes, and we know this is going to have a major effect on 
local government as well.

Mr. Speaker, I just want to say the President and his administration 
are focused on rebuilding Iraq, but somebody had better focus on 
rebuilding America and dealing with these rising foreclosure problems 
across the country. I will be the first in this Congress to put my 
shoulder to the wheel.

I want to thank Congressman Meek for yielding me this time and thank 
him for his leadership in showing how much money we are spending in 
Iraq and how it is affecting our ability to address domestic needs here 
that coast to coast are so very serious.















[From USA Today]















(By Adam Shell)









Subprime Troubles Send Stocks Into Swoon





depth of damage in mortgage business concerns investors




 The ripple effect of the ''submerging'' subprime mortgage 


 market hit Wall Street hard Tuesday, with the Dow suffering a 


 243-point drop amid growing fears that home loan woes will 


 infect other companies and hurt the broader U.S. economy. In 


 another volatile day on Wall Street, stocks were battered by 


 a slew of negative news in the home loan arena, prompting 


 investors to wonder just how deep the damage in the mortgage 


 business will turn out to be.



 ''The market fears that the submerging subprime lenders 


 could drag down other companies with it,'' says Sam Stovall, 


 chief strategist at Standard & Poor's. ''Investors fear 


 credit will dry up,'' which will make it harder for people to 


 borrow money to buy homes and for companies to raise much-


 needed cash in a pinch.



 Tuesday's biggest losers were financial companies that 


 either lend money directly to homeowners or provide cash to 


 the lenders themselves. Shares of subprime and commercial 


 lenders, investment banks and brokers all finished deep in 


 the red. The top two decliners in the Dow Jones industrial 


 average, for example, were American Express, down 3.5%, and 


 JPMorgan Chase, down 4.4%.



 Pain in that sector is magnified by the fact that financial 


 services is the biggest of the 10 industry groups in the 


 Standard & Poor's 500 index, accounting for almost 22% of the 


 index's total market value.



 Still, the fallout was broad-based. The Dow fell 243 


 points, or 2.0%, to 12,076, its worst drop since Feb. 27, 


 when it plunged 416 points. The S&P also dropped 2%, with 487 


 of its 500 components finishing lower. The three worst S&P 


 industry groups were home building, specialized finance and 


 investment banks/brokerages.



 The bad news in mortgage land continued to pile up around 


 subprime lenders as New Century Financial shares lost 49% and 


 Accredited Home Lenders fell 65% on concerns their financial 


 woes will worsen. The S&P's worst-performing stock: Bear 


 Stearns, a big Wall Street brokerage with subprime exposure, 


 fell 6.7%.



 The big question now is whether Tuesday's sell-off, like 


 the Feb. 27 plunge, is just air being let out of the 


 speculative balloon, or whether more serious economic issues 


 are at play, says Nicholas Sargen, chief investment officer 


 at Fort Washington Investment Advisors. ''Yeah, we are going 


 to see a general tightening of credit standards and a 


 crackdown on subprime lenders,'' Sargen says. ''If you say it 


 stops there, that is nothing new. But, and it's a big but, 


 nobody knows for sure.''





 Investors will be watching what Lehman Bros. says about the 


 health of the mortgage market and if the damage is isolated 


 to subprime lenders when it reports earnings Thursday. Says 


 S&P's Howard Silverblatt: ''They will be looking to get more 


 info as to how much exposure there is and who else is 


 exposed.''











[From USA Today, Mar. 14, 2007]











Record Foreclosures Reel Lenders















(By Noelle Knox)




 The reason many mortgage lenders are in trouble became 


 alarmingly clear Tuesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association 


 said more than 2.1 million Americans with a home loan missed 


 at least one payment at the end of last year--and the rate of 


 new foreclosures hit a record.



 The problem is most severe for borrowers with scuffed 


 credit and adjustable-rate mortgages. More than 14% of them 


 were behind on their payments. And the worst is yet to come, 


 the MBA said. At least $300 billion in subprime ARMs will 


 reset this year to higher interest rates. Those borrowers 


 face higher payments and a harder time refinancing.



 Blindsided by the number of loans that have already gone 


 bad, more than two dozen lenders have gone out of business or 


 been purchased. New Century Financial, the nation's second-


 largest subprime lender, has quit making loans and is edging 


 toward bankruptcy protection.



 ''There's been a stunning erosion of mortgage quality,'' 


 said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com. 


 ''It's primarily in the subprime market, but the entire 


 market is weakening . . . and that adds to problems in the 


 housing market, and by extension the broader economy.'' 


 Retailers are already feeling the effect, he said, because 


 homeowners tend to spend less when they fear their homes are 


 worth less.



 To stem their losses, lenders are ending 100% financing 


 plans, requiring better credit scores and demanding more 


 proof of a borrower's income. The stricter rules are 


 squeezing first-time buyers, as well as homeowners who want 


 to refinance.



 Sellers, meantime, must compete with a rising number of 


 foreclosures at cut-rate prices. Lenders that seize control 


 of a house are usually aggressive about selling it, to limit 


 the cost of maintaining and marketing it.



 It's like a one-two punch, Zandi says. ''It means less 


 demand because many potential borrowers will be locked out,'' 


 just as foreclosures expand the supply of homes for sale.



 Some economists, such as Patrick Newport of Global Insight, 


 had been expecting the real estate market to rebound soon. 


 Now, he says, ''We probably won't see a recovery in the 


 housing market until next year.''



 In fact, sales of new homes are expected to fall 10% this 


 year, while sales of existing homes are likely to slip about 


 1%, the National Association of Realtors said Tuesday.



 States with the most job losses are seeing the largest 


 number of delinquencies. In Mississippi, Louisiana, West 


 Virginia, Michigan, Alabama, Missouri and Tennessee, at least 


 one in five subprime ARMs is in default.



 In the final quarter of last year, 0.54% of homeowners with 


 a mortgage began foreclosure proceedings--a record--up from 


 0.46% in the third quarter.



 Calls from distressed homeowners to the Homeownership 


 Preservation Foundation, a free credit counseling service 


 (888-995-HOPE or 888-995-4673), have more than doubled from 


 last summer.
