---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `187d0c0b369d9470161434d0b8c9a7bf`
`Mr. DURBIN — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I salute the Senator from Michigan. As 
chairman of the Armed Services Committee, he brings an important bill 
to the floor. This is a bill which decides how we are going to 
authorize funds for America's military. We are enjoying the blessings 
of liberty in this country because of men and women in uniform who are 
willing to fight and die and keep this land free. This bill each year 
tries to make certain they have the resources to fight and be 
effective, to keep America safe. It is a huge responsibility with which 
this committee and this chairman have been entrusted. I thank the 
chairman, Senator Levin, and his Republican counterpart, Senator 
McCain, for their fine work.

I wish to echo the words said by Senator Schumer about the amendments 
before us. One of the most important elements of this debate is what is 
going to happen in Iraq. If we don't make a decision in Congress to 
change the direction in Iraq, we all know what will occur. President 
Bush has made it clear. He has said he will leave it to the next 
President to start removing troops. That means 18 more months of war. 
It means 18 more months of American casualties. It means 18 more months 
of expense for American taxpayers. It means a war that will continue 
with no end in sight. We have it within our power in the Senate through 
this bill to change that course, to have a new direction in Iraq.

I will support the amendment offered by Senator Levin and Senator 
Jack Reed of Rhode Island. They have been two of our best leaders on 
this issue because they are so committed to it and study it so 
carefully. They have it right.

The Levin-Reed amendment says that within 120 days, American soldiers 
will start coming home. It says that by April 1 of next year, our 
mission will change. We will no longer have a combat force protecting 
Iraq. We will have specific, defined missions. Our combat forces will 
come out. We will be there to fight the al-Qaida terrorists, to train 
Iraqi soldiers, and to protect American assets and the American 
soldiers who are coming home. That is it. At that point, the Iraqis 
have to take over. It is their country. It is their future. At some 
point, they have to stand up and assume the responsibility. The Levin-
Reed amendment says explicitly that is what we are going to do.

There are many other amendments that will be considered. Some of my


closest friends are going to offer amendments. Senator Ken Salazar and 
Senator Lamar Alexander have a bipartisan amendment to bring in the 
Iraq Study Group approach. There is nothing wrong with the Iraq Study 
Group. We praised the Iraq Study Group when they made their report last 
December. Had the President lived by their recommendations, we might be 
in a different place at this moment in time. But we are not. We are 
embroiled in this war, and we need to change it.

I have read the Salazar-Alexander amendment in its entirety. I can 
tell you that if you vote for this amendment, not a single soldier will 
come home, not one. They leave to the President the authority to make 
the decision about when to end this war. We know what his view is. This 
President is out of touch with the reality in Iraq. He is out of touch 
with the American people. The Salazar-Alexander amendment will not 
change that. The Levin-Reed amendment will. It will say to the 
President that the American people, through their elected 
representatives in the Senate, want to change this policy, and we will 
do it by law. That is the way to change it, not by sending a message to 
the President hoping for the best.

I will support the Levin-Reed amendment. I believe the Salazar-
Alexander amendment would have been a good thing to do a year ago when 
the Iraq Study Group issued its report. Today, it doesn't reach the 
result we want to reach in an effective time.















 amendment no. 2019


I would like to thank the chairman and ranking member for their work 
on the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act being offered today 
as an amendment to the Defense authorization bill. I am proud to be a 
cosponsor of this effort.

I also would like to thank Senators Warner, Murray, Graham, Obama, 
Webb, Hagel, Cantwell, Clinton, and Baucus, who are co-sponsors of my 
Military and Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury Treatment Act--much of 
which is included in the amendment before us today.

Traumatic brain injury is the signature injury of the Iraq war. The 
widespread use of Improvised Explosive Devices, IEDs, has taken a 
terrible toll. Even those who have walked off the battlefield without 
visible scars often find they have suffered the internal trauma of a 
traumatic brain injury.

The provisions from my bill that have been included in this amendment 
will reduce the number of our wounded soldiers who fall through the 
cracks and are left to fend for themselves as they struggle to recover 
from a traumatic brain injury.

We have made tremendous progress in battlefield medical care.

During Vietnam, one in three service members who were injured died. 
In Iraq and Afghanistan, 1 in 16 who are injured die. But with the 
changes in warfare and in medical technology, more of our service 
members are coming home with serious brain injuries from Iraq and 
Afghanistan than from any other recent conflicts.

For some of these wounded warriors, the greatest battle comes at home 
when they seek care. Many of these returning troops need long-term 
treatment and rehabilitation long after their discharge from active 
duty, as they fight to overcome the severe disabilities that a 
traumatic brain injury can cause.

For others, there is a different story. Some service members don't 
even realize they have suffered a traumatic brain injury until long 
after their discharge, because we don't do a very good job of 
identifying and treating those who may have suffered a brain injury.

Fortunately, many of those who suffer a brain injury are able to 
recover fairly quickly. But for some, the experience is life-altering, 
even life-shattering. We must not fail them in their time of need.

Consider the case of SGT Eric Edmundson. In October 2005, he suffered 
a severe head concussion when a roadside bomb exploded near him. He was 
cared for at Walter Reed Hospital, but then was transferred to a VA 
facility where he and his family felt he was not receiving the kind of 
treatment that would allow him to continue to make progress in 
rehabilitation.

He would have been stuck there if the family had not found a creative 
way to obtain the care he needed by ensuring that Eric could receive 
treatment and rehabilitation at one of the premiere rehabilitation 
hospitals in the nation: the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago. Two 
weeks ago, I attended a ceremony at the Rehabilitation Institute of 
Chicago in which Eric walked out of the hospital.

Now consider the case of SGT Garrett Anderson of Champaign, IL. 
Garrett went to Iraq with the Illinois National Guard. After 4 months 
there, an IED exploded next to his armored humvee in Baghdad. The blast 
tore off his right arm below the elbow, shattered his jaw, severed part 
of his tongue, damaged his hearing, and punctured his body with 
shrapnel.

He spent 7 months at Walter Reed, where he received excellent care in 
Ward 57, the famous amputee ward. However, the outpatient care that 
followed has been filled with paperwork and redtape. It was months 
before the VA recognized that Garrett had suffered a traumatic brain 
injury, and he has not received the kind of treatment for brain injury 
that could make a significant difference in the trajectory of his 
rehabilitation.

We need to change the way we handle patients with traumatic brain 
injury, so that they receive the care they need at the time they need 
it, and the provisions from my Military and Veterans Traumatic Brain 
Injury Treatment Act that have been included in this amendment will do 
just that.

These provisions include: requiring the Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Secretary of the Veterans Administration, to 
develop a comprehensive program to prevent, diagnose, mitigate, treat, 
and otherwise respond to traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic 
stress disorder; and requiring predeployment cognitive screening as a 
baseline for evaluating potential brain injuries.

Other principles from my bill have been included in this broader 
amendment to apply to all service members, and not only those who have 
suffered from traumatic brain injuries. For example, this amendment 
would require: a uniform policy and procedures to ease a service 
member's transition from the DOD to VA; a 3-year period in which a 
medically retired service member can obtain the same medical benefits 
as those on active duty; a joint electronic health record for DOD and 
VA; and outreach to members and their families regarding the benefits 
to which they are entitled.

Indeed, we must do much more for all of our wounded warriors, and the 
dignified treatment of wounded warriors amendment is a comprehensive 
policy governing their care. This bipartisan amendment also would 
require: medical care and job placement services for family members 
providing care for severely injured service members; establishment of 
Centers of Excellence in the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, 
treatment, and rehabilitation of traumatic brain injury and post-
traumatic stress disorder; improvements in the disability system for 
service members; and improved housing facilities for injured patients.

Our Nation's service members deserve swift action on this effort to 
improve the treatment they will receive if they are wounded or suffer a 
traumatic brain injury.

I can't imagine the anguish that must be associated with such an 
injury, but I can imagine the kind of medical system I would like to 
have in place if it were my son or daughter struggling to recover from 
such an injury. This legislation reflects that vision.

I thank all of my colleagues who have contributed to this legislation 
and I urge all Senators to support this measure.

I wish to elaborate on a story as to why I have added provisions in 
this amendment. This is about American soldiers coming home who are 
wounded and how they are treated. Those of us--and I think it includes 
almost everyone in the Senate who has taken the time to go to military 
hospitals and VA hospitals--know that, sadly, after promising to these 
men and women that if they will take the oath to defend America, we 
will stand by them when they come home, we have broken our promise time 
and again.

This story illustrates why this is needed and why I have added some 
language which I hope will help. It is the


story of a brave young soldier named Eric Edmundson, 7 years in the 
Army, 27 years of age, who suffered a traumatic brain injury in Iraq. 
As a result of that injury, he went through surgery, and during the 
course of surgery, there was a problem: His brain was deprived of 
oxygen for a period of time. He was rushed to Walter Reed Hospital, 
where he went through more surgery and more effort and then finally was 
discharged from Walter Reed to Richmond, VA, to the VA hospital. Eric 
went into that hospital in a very bad state. He really hadn't made much 
of a recovery. His father, his mother, his wife, and his sister were 
all by his side praying for the best and hoping for the best treatment.

After a period of time, the people at the Richmond VA hospital came 
to the family and said: We have bad news about Eric. We need for you to 
pick out a wheelchair because he is going to spend the rest of his life 
in a wheelchair in a nursing home. His father says not only no, but 
hell no; I am going to fight for my son; he is not going to spend the 
rest of his life sitting in this wheelchair. His father quit his job in 
North Carolina and became a full-time advocate for his son, this fallen 
soldier. He fought the Government to make sure his son had the best. 
Let me tell you what happened.

Eventually, he went on the Internet and found the Rehab Institute of 
Chicago, one of the best. He insisted that his son go to this rehab 
institute. The Government said they wouldn't pay for it. He said: I am 
sending him anyway. He had him admitted and finally persuaded the 
Government to start paying for his treatment.

Ten weeks ago, I walked into the hospital room of Eric Edmundson. 
Here was this bright, smiling young man sitting in a wheelchair. He 
followed me with his eyes as I walked into the room, and I stood before 
him and said: Eric, how are you doing? He can't speak. He just smiled, 
looked at me, and nothing happened.

Four weeks ago, I went back to that hospital room to visit with the 
family and this young soldier. His mom and dad said: Eric has a present 
for you. I thought: What could this be? They walked over and they 
propped him up by his elbows, and he took four steps. There wasn't a 
dry eye in that hospital room. We were all crying, including Eric. He 
was walking.

His dad said to me--and this was right before Memorial Day: A month 
from now, he is going to walk out of the front door of this hospital. I 
was there on June 30, the day of his official discharge. Eric Edmundson 
walked out of the front door of that hospital. He had been given up on 
by a VA system that didn't have the 35 years of experience the Rehab 
Institute of Chicago has. He had been given up on by so many others. 
But America can't give up on these soldiers. We can't relegate a 27-
year-old soldier to a lifetime in a nursing home because we are afraid 
to refer him to the best hospital in America. That is wrong.

This amendment will help. This amendment for our wounded warriors 
will help them move forward in the system and have greater 
opportunities. Sad to say, it doesn't go far enough. There has to be a 
point in this system where the military hospitals of America and the VA 
hospitals will concede there may be a better hospital for this soldier, 
this sailor, this marine, this airman, and we cannot deny them that 
care. We have to give them that care. This bill doesn't include that. I 
am disappointed.

We asked these brave young men and women to fight our enemies 
overseas. They shouldn't come home wounded and have to fight their 
Government. That is what the Edmundson family had to do. We should make 
certain no other family of any other soldier ever faces that in the 
future.

I yield the floor.