---
---

# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT
## `187f5da731ce1aad72b803ea24762722`
`Mr. DINGELL — 22 April 2010`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to proudly support the House 
Amendments to S. 1963, the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health 
Services Act; legislation that recognizes and aims to meet the needs of 
our veterans who have bravely served in Iraq and Afghanistan after 9/
11. My colleagues will remember that this legislation was held up in 
the Senate due to one senator's objection that the bill was not paid 
for. However, our warriors have already paid a very high price through 
their sacrifices and selfless devotion to our national security, and 
they should be repaid with excellent care when they return to civilian 
life. Fortunately, this legislation builds on the Democratic Congress' 
record of supporting our veterans through new and innovative programs, 
fixing some of the existing problems in the VA, and increasing funding 
for the VA budget.

The legislation we are voting on today is a comprehensive approach to 
caring for our veterans. Specifically, it provides robust support for 
those who care for our wounded warriors, addresses the needs women 
veterans, expands services to rural veterans and for mental health 
care, and closes a loophole for disabled veterans health care.

Specifically, the House amendments to S. 1963 provides services, 
training, and reimbursements for the caregivers of veterans who return 
from war with serious injuries. It will strengthen support for 
caregivers of all veterans and will provide reimbursements for lodging 
and healthcare to caregivers of Afghanistan and Iraq War veterans 
through the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs.

In addition, the legislation expands health care services for our 1.8 
million women veterans including provisions mandating a study of the 
barriers to women veterans seeking health care, education and training 
for mental health professionals caring for veterans with sexual trauma, 
a reintegration and readjustment pilot program, establishment of a 
child care pilot program for women receiving regular and intensive 
mental health care and intensive health care services, and post-
delivery health care for new born children.

This comprehensive bill also improves health care for our veterans 
living in rural areas, including by expanding transportation for 
veterans to local VA hospitals and clinics through VA grants to local 
Veterans Service Organizations and provides increased access to 
counseling and other mental health centers to any member of the Armed 
Forces.



Other provisions in this legislation include prohibiting the VA from 
collecting copayments from veterans who are catastrophically disabled; 
creating a pilot program to provide specified dental services to 
veterans, survivors, and dependents of veterans through a dental 
insurer; providing hospital care, medical services, and nursing home 
care for certain Vietnam-era veterans exposed to herbicide and Gulf-War 
era veterans who have insufficient medical evidence to establish a 
service-connected disability; and expanding the organizations offering 
transitional housing and other support for homeless veterans that can 
receive grants or per diems from the VA, which is particularly 
important to veterans in rural areas.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
legislation and for the Senate to swiftly act so that this legislation 
can become law and our veterans can begin to benefit from the important 
programs this comprehensive bill implements.
