---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `1888818cf1ff8552a44cfb8a2afd0088`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 20 June 2008`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Speaker, I want to state for the record that my 
vote today against Amendment No. 1 to H.R. 2642, the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act is a vote against further unconditional funding for 
the war in Iraq. However, I would also like to make clear that this is 
not a vote against funding our troops fighting in Afghanistan. In fact, 
I believe that my vote today against amendment No. 1 is indeed a vote 
that supports our mission in Afghanistan because I believe the failed 
war in Iraq has greatly hurt our ability to defeat our enemies who 
attacked our Nation on 9/11.

I cannot vote to continue funding for the war in Iraq because it has 
not been fought for the purpose that was stated to the American people 
back in 2002 and it has not achieved the goals that were set out by 
this Administration. The war in Iraq has lasted far too long and has 
recklessly put the lives and livelihood of too many American troops in 
danger. With over 4,000 of our brave sons and daughters killed and more 
than 30,000 diagnosed with injuries, it is time they come home. After 5 
years, this war has lasted longer than America's military involvement 
in World War I, World War II, the Korean war and the Civil War. I 
remain fully committed to the withdrawal of America's troops from the 
war in Iraq and am greatly disappointed that a timeline for withdrawal 
has not been included in this emergency funding measure. To be certain, 
a timeline is the only way that the current Iraqi Government will 
understand the dire need to unify and stand together to build their 
nation. Our brave men and women of the Armed Forces can not and should 
not have to hold Iraq together indefinitely. My vote today against this 
amendment is strictly a vote to bring our troops home from Iraq.

While I strongly oppose continued funding for our war in Iraq I am an 
even stronger supporter for greater funding and resources to win the 
battle against Al Qeada and Taliban extremists in Afghanistan. I have 
stated unequivocally on multiple occasions that Afghanistan is the 
central front in the war on terror. In fact, just 2 months ago I joined 
my colleagues Representatives Capuano and LoBiondo in a congressional 
assignment to Afghanistan and Pakistan. I had the honor to meet our 
troops stationed in Afghanistan and see the battle conditions they 
faced high up in the mountain ranges of the Afghan-Pakistan border. 
Despite the extreme conditions and dangerous assignments they were 
engaged in, I was encouraged by the troops' morale and unwavering 
commitment to their mission in Afghanistan. I told them I would 
continue to do everything in my power in Congress to provide them with 
the resources they need to be successful in Afghanistan and I believe I 
am doing so with this vote today.

It is my regret that I do not have the ability today to vote to 
reject continued funding for the war in Iraq and still vote to approve 
greater funding for our efforts in Afghanistan. It is clear to me that 
the central front in the War on Terror in Afghanistan has suffered due 
to the singular focus the administration has had on Iraq. It should be 
deeply disturbing to my colleagues and all Americans that because of 
this focus on Iraq we are seeing a resurgence of the Taliban as 
witnessed in the recent suicide bombing of a prison in Kandahar that 
freed over 400 Taliban inmates. The facts make clear my reasoning as to 
why I am voting today against Amendment No. 1 in support of our brave 
troops fighting in Afghanistan.
