---
---

# None
## `188ce4f415f84d1649681bd6f6e36301`
`Mr. NEAL — 21 July 2010`

---


Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in full support of this emergency 
legislation that will restore the safety net to millions of American 
families. Those families have been desperately waiting for this relief 
since June. Their faith in us had been tested, but today, I am pleased 
to say we can extend them the help that they need.

My colleagues have heard me speak of the legendary mayor of Boston, 
James Michael Curley. A truly gifted orator.

Curley spoke with great empathy about the forgotten man, those 
individuals who for whatever reason have found themselves outside of 
the mainstream of economic life. He also would suggest that, in 
simplicity, that the great ally of civilization was a full stomach. And 
we need to be reminded of that with the grim economic statistics that 
America is currently witnessing.

Now, also another very pertinent reminder here that I think that we 
all ought to recall: in October of 2008, in record time this House 
voted to come to the aid of Wall Street. It didn't take us long, with 
the Troubled Asset Relief Program, to keep standing many of those 
institutions that helped create the problem that we find ourselves 
currently in.

Is that relevant today? There are millions of people across this 
country who have simply found themselves without work. What does that 
do to an individual who has spent a career, and after 30 years finds 
the job is gone? And we treat them as though they are simply a 
statistic after perhaps they served us in an honorable manner in 
Vietnam, or currently in Iraq, or Afghanistan, or other theaters around 
the world?

America's about building community, Mr. Speaker. America's about a 
place where nobody's to be abandoned and nobody's to be left behind. 
The great bounty of God's work has been to ensure that most people in 
America have shelter and food. This opportunity to extend unemployment 
benefits for the American people ought to meet this moment.

I urge adoption.