---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2764, THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,  FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `18b8fb80ea8100f545578c92b0e6b3b8`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 20 June 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Mr. Speaker, America's leadership role is 
not limited to the Presidency. Nor does it solely fall upon the 
shoulders of this body. Branches of our government must share 
responsibility.

During this critical time in world history, when America's image as a 
global leader is tarnished and questioned, we must lead from this 
Chamber. We must take it upon ourselves to make it possible for 
America's image in the world to be restored. We must make it our 
business to try and make all that is wrong right.

When America leads in a constructive, inclusive and thoughtful 
manner, others in the world follow. This approach toward global 
leadership is not, as some have charged, a soft approach to conducting 
the war on terrorism. On the contrary, it is a clear recognition that 
America cannot do this alone.

If we have learned anything in the last 6 years, it is that no one in 
this world is safe from the directions of terrorism. It will take a 
global effort to curb the efforts of those who are seeking to destroy 
us and others in the world.

But if we have learned anything else during the last 6 years, it is 
that the policies of the present administration have failed and 
America's standing in the world is in dire need of restoration.

Parts of the Middle East, from Iraq to Gaza, are living in a civil 
war. People are dying in Darfur as we and others around the world do 
nothing. And children throughout the world are starving to death and 
dying of malnourishment and lack of potable fresh water.

The underlying legislation, the first Foreign Operations 
appropriations bill of this new Democratic majority, sends a clear 
message to our friends and enemies alike that America's priorities in 
the world are making must-needed changes.

I urge a ''yes'' vote on the previous question and on the rule.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time, and I move the 
previous question on the resolution.

The previous question was ordered.