---
---

# VETERANS BENEFITS ENHANCEMENT ACT
## `18bd09bd43b0d263b9d2a55732b13fed`
`Mr. BURR — 21 April 2008`

---


Mr. BURR. Let me assure the majority leader, as ranking member of the 
committee, I do not intend to vote against cloture. I intend to proceed 
to the bill. I intend to offer an amendment that strips out the 
provision of $300 of a special pension that I think prioritizes that 
group above our veterans who are coming back. My amendment would hold 
everything else in Senator Akaka's bill in place, but we would also 
make additions by using that $21 million for additional funding for our 
troops who are coming out of Afghanistan and Iraq.

I hope the majority leader would at least consider voting for my 
amendment when it comes up. We have a rich history on this issue. It 
starts with the conclusion of the Second World War, when the United 
States made some very important gifts to the Philippines--the total of 
two hospitals, equipment, grants to rebuild the Philippines--to make 
sure those who served were in fact taken care of.

I might also add for the majority leader, incorporated into Senator 
Akaka's bill, which is a very good bill on balance, there is only one 
area that we have any problems with. We hold intact those Filipino 
veterans who are in the United States receiving full VA benefits. Those 
who are outside the United States, living in the Philippines but with 
service-connected injuries, they receive compensation. It is those who 
live outside the United States, in the Philippines, with no service-
connected injury whatsoever, that creating a special pension is not the 
right thing to do, as we have troops who are coming back at this time.

I pledge to the majority leader my willingness to move forward to 
consideration of the bill--to have a spirited debate, I am sure, but 
clearly to try to address what I think are the priorities, or should be 
the priorities, of this Senate, and that is to focus on our troops.