---
---

# FUTURE INVOLVEMENT IN AFGHANISTAN
## `18bebdf187fb0667d879174a3a0d1c9c`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. I agree with the gentleman. I want to again also thank 
our friend, Mr. Kagen, for organizing this, and, again, my friend 
Walter Jones, who's been unbelievably eloquent on the need for there to 
be more debate on this issue--I appreciate that--and my friend, Mr. 
Paul, for all of his work.

The gentleman raises, I think, a very important point, and that is 
that


there's a cost to this war. There's a cost in terms of human life. My 
friend is a doctor. He has seen firsthand the trauma that war can 
inflict on our soldiers. We have all been to Walter Reed Hospital. We 
have visited many young men and women who have been wounded in this 
conflict. But there's also a cost, as he mentions, in terms of dollars 
and cents.

I always find it somewhat ironic that we have debates on this floor 
about health care or child care or feeding the hungry or making sure 
people have adequate housing or even in terms of giving our veterans 
more. People always get up and say, Boy, we can't spend any more; we 
can't spend any more. We have to worry about our debt and our deficit.

Well, where is the outrage over the fact that we have spent all this 
money on these wars in Iraq and Afghanistan off budget? It's all gone 
on our credit card. I introduced a bill along with Mr. Obey and Mr. 
Murtha last year, a couple of years ago, saying that we should have a 
war tax. It got shot down in a bipartisan way. But I think that we need 
to understand that in these wars it is only really a tiny sliver of our 
country that is actually sacrificing--our soldiers and their families. 
The rest of us are being asked to do nothing. But understand one thing. 
These wars are adding incredible amounts to our deficit and our debt. 
People need to understand there's a cost here. And we need to have that 
debate.

I'll just tell you one other thing, if I can. Look, I, too, am 
grateful that the President is deliberating on this issue. I wish the 
deliberation had occurred before we had the surge that we had a few 
months ago, because I think it was important to have this debate before 
any more soldiers got sent there. But I am grateful that he is 
deliberating. And we don't know what his policy will be. But I'm going 
to tell you I am personally offended by the fact that the President of 
Afghanistan is openly taking on the United States, criticizing the 
United States, for what our motives may be and what our role may be 
over there when we are supporting him and he is guilty of fraud, he is 
guilty of corruption. If he were in this country, there would be a 
special investigation and he would go to jail. This is the extent of 
the corruption over there. And at some point you have to say that this 
doesn't work.

We have to ask: Why are we there while al Qaeda's in Pakistan, no 
longer in Afghanistan? What are we trying to do? I don't think it is 
worth spending the money or sacrificing the lives to defend a corrupt 
regime. And I think that is where we are right now.

Mr. Karzai has had 8 years to show what he is about. That's why when 
you asked me before whether if he adds anything to his speech about 
finding corruption, whether I will believe him. No, I will not, because 
he's had 8 years to prove what he's about. And we have had good members 
of our Foreign Service community who have resigned over the fact that 
this government is so corrupt.

So, enough. We need to develop a policy that has an exit strategy and 
it includes a flexible withdrawal strategy.



I want to help the Afghan people. I'm not against development aid. I 
think we should try to help them any way we can, in a way that is 
sustainable, in a way that works, and in a way that they want. But 
let's understand that there is no military solution to be had here, and 
expanding our military footprint will only allow the Taliban greater 
propaganda points for recruiting and will cost us dearly. So enough. 
It's time to reevaluate this policy. It is time to figure out a way to 
end our military involvement, and we need to do so in a sensible and 
thoughtful way.