# FDA FOOD SAFETY MODERNIZATION ACT
## `18c8e0713aba1aa42282b32a9185c4ef`
`Mr. LEAHY — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I rise today to express my opposition to 
the Coburn amendment. The legislative branch has a constitutional duty 
to make modifications and adjustments to the budget for the Federal 
Government. As a U.S. Senator and a member of the Appropriations 
Committee, I take very seriously the responsibility of the Senate to 
help craft the annual Federal budget. Members of Congress have a duty 
to their constituents to preserve their role in working with the 
executive branch, whether Democratic or Republican, about how, where, 
and in what manner Federal dollars are spent.

The U.S. Constitution gives the responsibility of spending and 
taxation to the Congress, not to unelected bureaucrats in the executive 
branch. The notion that individuals who are completely unaccountable to 
the American people will make spending decisions undermines the most 
basic principle of democracy. Instead, the Founding Fathers correctly 
put this burden on the shoulders of individuals who have to answer to 
voters at the ballot box.

Over the last few months, and particularly in the days since the 
election, some Members of Congress and Members-elect have been tripping 
over themselves to take a stronger position in opposition to so-called 
earmarks. Proponents of this amendment claim that it targets earmarks. 
I would argue otherwise. This amendment strikes at the heart of the 
balance that our Founding Fathers established between the executive and 
legislative branches of our government.

Every single State would be shortchanged by the proposed moratorium 
on earmarks. The Founders knew better. They knew that a Washington 
bureaucracy would not always make decisions that were best for country, 
including people working and living in small towns and big cities 
across America.

That also includes making better decisions for the men and women who 
serve in our military. There is no better example than the National 
Guard and Reserve Equipment Account. Republican and Democratic 
administrations alike have short-changed the Guard equipment budget for 
decades and have done so even as the Guard has been called to provide 
as much as half of the troops needed for operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Without the National Guard and Reserve equipment account, 
our National Guard units would still be going into battle without


equipment like body armor and blast-protected vehicles. Congress 
insisted on providing funding to our National Guard and that has saved 
countless lives and enabled them to carry out their missions more 
effectively.

Adopting this amendment is a vote for less transparency. It is a vote 
for backroom dealing and less sunlight on how decisions regarding 
Federal spending are made. One need only look back to when Congress has 
in the past failed to pass the appropriations bills and the government 
operated under a continuing resolution for the year. Federal spending 
did not go down by a single dime. Instead, unelected administration 
appointees made decisions on which projects they wanted to see funded.

It is my hope that before the next Congress a measure of sanity 
returns to discussion of the Federal budget. Everyone agrees that we 
must make serious changes to our Federal balance sheet and bring our 
fiscal house in order. But it was not earmarks that created our 
alarming Federal debt. Eliminating earmarks is not going to get our 
fiscal house in order. Instead it is going to expand the power of the 
executive branch and its employees. It also rolls back all of the 
transparency that Congress has embedded into its budget process.

Congress and the administration need to work together to address our 
Federal deficit. Adopting this amendment banning earmarks is a 
publicity stunt that has serious ramifications that actually moves our 
country in the wrong direction toward solving our problems in an open 
and constructive way.