---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-62)
## `18d2b82bd15f4f6c0e39d4f64e370bc0`
`Mr. STARK — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. STARK. I just want to remind my colleagues that we are dealing 
with a President who has a very short memory. Just 2 days ago, he 
proclaimed October 1 as Child Health Day 2007. Today, he just trashed 
that. I don't know what he thought he was doing when he talked about 
improving the lives of children and preventing and reducing the cost of 
disease and promoting community health, because he is just following a 
position that denies 1 million kids the right to health care.

So I hope, Mr. President, that you certainly don't proclaim a Protect 
Congress Day, or we are all in deep trouble.

This veto of the Children's Health Insurance Program compromise 
legislation is finally showing the American people the President's true 
priorities. He is a war President. All he cares about is war and more 
war. The previous speaker on our side talked about $190 billion for the 
war in Iraq, and these funds aren't paid for. They add to the deficit. 
In addition to our children having to look around for health care, they 
are going to have to look around to pay for that illegal war.

Simultaneously voting to extend a State Children's Health Insurance 
Program would be a good program. We would extend health care to nearly 
4 million children, and the President is cutting a million off that 
cost a fraction of his illegal war. It is fully paid for and doesn't 
increase the deficit one penny. It passed both the House and the Senate 
with strong bipartisan majorities.

What's wrong with our Republican minority? Why do they insist on 
denying 1 million children, kicking them off the rolls of SCHIP? Why do 
they scorn in the face of 43 of the Nation's Governors who have written 
to the President and argued against his vetoing this bill?

President Bush says he has his own plan. I don't know if he had that 
when he declared October 1 as Child Health Day. Whatever that plan is, 
it would cause millions of children to lose their health care. My own 
Republican Governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, estimates that the 
President's plan would cause 1 million children to be denied health 
care in California by the year 2012.

This is a matter of life and death for our children's insurance. 
Children with health care do better in school, in life, and have their 
illnesses caught before it is too late. Ladies and gentlemen, the axis 
of evil is not just in the Middle East. It is right down here on 
Pennsylvania Avenue.

I urge my colleagues to reject the President's veto, have a 
compromise bill to assure the health of America's children and make 
sure that that is put ahead of some obscure, extreme, radical ideology.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.










Announcement By The Speaker Pro Tempore
