---
---

# IN MEMORY OF SGT. EDUVIGES WOLF
## `18d9cce7c1fc9585c5d68b124b605fef`
`Ms. WATERS — 19 November 2009`

---


Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the memory of Sgt. 
Eduviges Preciado Wolf of Hawthorne, CA. Sgt. Wolf was an army sergeant 
assigned to the 704th Brigade Support Battalion, 4th Brigade Combat 
Team, 4th Infantry Division, out of Fort Carson, Colorado. Sgt. Wolf 
was a hero who gave her life in service to her country.

Sgt. Wolf, also known as ''Duvi,'' dreamed of serving in the U.S. 
military as a child who emigrated to the United States from Mexico with 
her family. As soon as Duvi was able, she joined the United States 
military so that she could fulfill her lifelong dream to serve and 
protect her country. She met her husband Josh at Fort Bragg. Together 
they had 2 daughters: 3-year-old Isabel and 1-year-old Valerie. Both 
Duvi and Josh were deployed to Afghanistan, where they served in 
separate units. Tragically, Duvi recently died in an insurgent attack 
while in Afghanistan. She was 24 years old.

Earlier this month on Veterans Day, I had the honor and privilege of 
participating in events with veterans and their families in my 
congressional district--in Hawthorne and Inglewood, California. I was 
deeply moved by the families of our servicemembers. Not only do 
servicemembers make major sacrifices, but so do their families. They 
live with the harsh realities of war and its implications on them. 
Spouses must sacrifice long-term career planning, and children are 
oftentimes forced to transfer to different schools throughout the 
country. Tragically, as is the reality of combat theater, some of our 
troops do not make it home.

Today, I salute and thank Sgt. Wolf, along with all of our Nation's 
past and present heroes who sacrificed a great deal in service to their 
country.

I expressed my condolences to Duvi's sister Cecilia in Hawthorne on 
Veterans Day, and I know that her friends and family are still 
mourning. It is my hope that they will find comfort and peace in the 
loving memories and the distinguished legacy of service that Duvi 
leaves behind.
