# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `18de14f232622535756dfa251c76309b`
`Mr. REID — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, the Republican leader and I have worked very 
closely in the past week or two on the process we are following this 
evening. We both agree it is imperative that we get to conference with 
the House as quickly as possible, and adoption of the Murray amendment, 
which is the amendment which was offered here, will allow us to do just 
that. This is a procedural step.

We are anxious to get to conference to work with the President's 
Chief of Staff Josh Bolten. He has been available any time we have 
asked for his presence. He realizes there is going to have to be some 
serious negotiations. We also understand that it is not just the 
Senate. The House has to be involved in these negotiations, and we


certainly understand that and Mr. Bolton understands that.

We have a long way to go, but this was a tremendous step forward. We 
may disagree on a lot of issues dealing with the policy in Iraq, but 
the one point on which we agree--both Democrats and Republicans--is 
that the troops must have everything they need and more, and we are 
going to make sure that is the case.

The Republican leader and I agree, and I have spoken with the Speaker 
of the House at 5 o'clock today, and she agrees with me, that we are 
going to finish this bill and this conference report prior to our 
leaving for the Memorial Day recess. Everyone should rest assured we 
are going to do that. I hope we can do that without causing a lot of 
discomfort to Senators and Members of the House if we finish this bill 
at a reasonable time a week from Thursday or Friday, but if we can't, 
we are going no place until we finish this legislation and it gets to 
the President's desk.