# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `18e2d98f37af045c24d5fdceae944475`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Chairman, earlier this week the 
Appropriations Committee filed the fiscal year 2008 Defense 
Appropriations bill and report. There were no minority views on this 
bill, because it is broadly supported by both Democrats and Republicans 
in its current form.

The bill totals over $459 billion, and is $3.5 billion below the 
President's request. However, it is $40 billion above the fiscal year 
2007 level.

The fiscal year 2008 war supplemental request of $147 billion is not 
included in this bill. That package will be marked up and brought to 
the floor in September. At that time we will also be addressing the 
President's new request of $5.3 billion for additional MRAP vehicles 
for use in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I strongly support this bill as reported. It provides for a number of 
Presidential and Congressional priorities, including: $6 billion in 
equipment to grow the Army and Marines; Restoration of the $1.9 billion 
cut in the Defense Health program associated with proposed increases in 
insurance co-payments that have not been authorized by Congress; An 
additional $925 million in equipment for the National Guard and Reserve 
which is important for disaster response throughout the country, 
including the Gulf Coast; Full funding for the Congressionally I 
proposed 3.5 percent pay increase for the military; $4.1 billion for 
continued development of the Joint Strike Fighter and $3.1 billion to 
procure 20 F-22 aircraft; Procurement of nine ships for the Navy, 
including initial funding for the next generation aircraft carrier; and 
$1.1 billion to outfit a new Stryker brigade, either for the National 
Guard or the active Army.

To summarize, unlike many bills we're dealing with this week, I can 
state that this bill has broad bipartisan support.

I appreciate the cooperation and courtesy shown by my chairman, Mr. 
Murtha, throughout this process. We keep trading places as chairman of 
this subcommittee; perhaps in the next Congress we'll trade places 
again. Whatever happens, I know we will continue the bipartisan 
partnership that has been the hallmark of this subcommittee.

I also want to thank the members of the Defense subcommittee for 
their contributions to this bill, especially those on the Republican 
side of the aisle. Mr. Hobson, Mr. Frelinghuysen, Mr. Tiahrt, Mr. 
Wicker, Mr. Kingston, and the ranking member of the full committee, Mr. 
Lewis, all made important contributions to this legislation.

Mr. Chairman, again I want to say that I strongly support this bill, 
and urge its adoption by the House.