---
---

# None
## `18f0ab87166208b28bb0d698221862e1`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, we have been blessed in the Armed 
Service Committee to have outstanding chairmen. I was pleased to serve 
under Senator McCain and Senator Levin. A lot of hard work has gone 
into the Defense authorization bills each year I have been here. It is 
remarkable how much we agree on in committee. We come out with very few 
differences, and those are reasonable differences that we sometimes can 
bridge and sometimes we have to vote on and let someone decide. Some of 
the questions are pretty close questions, whether to fund that system 
or that program or not, and good people can disagree regardless of 
their political party.

I have been pleased to serve with Senator Bill Nelson on the 
Strategic Subcommittee. I chaired that when the Republicans were in the 
majority. He chairs it now that the Democrats are in the majority. We 
have very few differences. I respect his judgment. He is committed to 
serving his country.

We have produced a bill that I think, all in all, is a good piece of 
legislation that will actually strengthen our Department of Defense, 
the ability of our men and women in uniform to serve their country, and 
take better care of them. So that is a good thing.

But now we get the bill on the floor, and I guess that group I have 
been referring to in recent weeks as ''masters of the universe''--
somebody up there, up high--decides that this is the time we are 
supposed to have fights, and we are supposed to utilize this 
opportunity to push and push and push on various different areas.

Now, of course, it is legitimate to debate our commitment and 
strategy in Iraq at this time. But I think what Senator McCain is 
telling us is this, that this bill fundamentally is a bill to deal with 
and strengthen our military, that we just had debates in April and May 
and great detail about our Iraq policy, and we decided on that policy.



We all know that we will expect a report from General Petraeus in 
September. This is not the time to alter the policy we established 
about 2 months ago. I agree with Senator McCain about that. We can talk 
about it. We can do those things. But is it the right thing to 
jeopardize this bill over other issues--over the issues relating to 
Iraq?

Let me say a couple of things. The fundamental debate we are having 
here with regard to our Iraq policy, when you boil it down to basics, 
is whether to reverse the policy we established in May.

That was a decision by an 80-to-14 vote to fund the surge in Iraq, 
after having voted on it in April. We had another vote back in May, and 
we funded this operation through the fiscal year, through September 30, 
if not longer--at least through September 30. And we affirmed and 
confirmed General Petraeus as the commander of that surge by a 99-to-0 
vote. He is a fabulous commander, and he received a bipartisan, 
unanimous vote in the Senate. That is what we decided, after great 
debate.

Now, what I will say to my colleagues is this: A great nation has to 
conduct itself as such. We are not able to flip-flop around week after 
week and change our minds every few weeks based on this or that event. 
If a serious situation occurs, we can change our mind at any time. But 
great nations are more akin to great battleships. They do not dart 
around similar to a speedboat. They set their course and have to 
justify it carefully before they act. Once they act, they need to stay 
that course, subject to any changes that occur.

So what I would say is this: I am worried we are doing what some 
political consultants would like to see Democratic leadership do and 
talk about the war because they think that is politically beneficial. 
We ought to be talking about those soldiers we have committed out 
there, placed in harm's way, who are, this very day, walking the 
streets of Baghdad and Al Anbar Province and Tikrit and Mosul, 
executing the policies we voted 80 to 14, in May, to send them to do. 
We voted 99 to 0 to send General Petraeus.

At that time, we made clear to him we expected a report in September. 
I think that is what we are about here, and we ought to be about, that 
we would go forward--and always subject to our constitutional 
responsibilities to make any changes that are required--but go forward 
to allow the general to carry out the surge we told him to carry out.

This surge, let me say to my colleagues, has only reached its full 
effort--what?--2 weeks ago when the last brigade reached Iraq. So we 
only reached full capacity of that surge a few weeks ago.

We know it is difficult now. They said: Well, the bombings are 
occurring outside Baghdad now. Why is that? Well, it is a given that it 
is tougher for them in Baghdad, so they have gone outside Baghdad to do 
bombings. What does that suggest? I would suggest that would lead us to 
conclude the work in Iraq, in Baghdad itself, has already made 
progress. Indeed, if the capital city of Iraq, the biggest city, cannot 
maintain order, it is difficult to see how we can have a political 
settlement all of us wish to occur.

General Petraeus has taken the case to the enemy. He is moving 
forward aggressively and making military progress. The difficulty--and 
we all know it--is that the Government of Iraq is not performing at the 
level it needs to perform. This is a matter we are not able to deny. I 
know when I traveled to Iraq with Senator Levin--and when I was there 
more recently with Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska--we raised the 
importance with the Iraqi people and the Iraqi leaders of having a 
functioning government.

Senator Levin has strongly believed and consistently argued that one 
way to get them to perform is to threaten to pull out our troops. I 
have come to believe their failure to perform cannot be altered by 
threats to pull out troops. I wish it could be. I wish we could do it 
that way. But it is more difficult than that.

So they are struggling, and I do not know whether they can pull this 
Government together. I certainly hope so. But I will tell you one 
thing. Progress is being made in a number of different areas 
militarily. This gives me some hope they can pull this Government 
together. That is where we are at this point. I do not see any other 
way to analyze it, honestly, to the American people. That is what I say 
to them as best I can.

I believe our military is performing magnificently. I believe the 
Government in Iraq continues to have serious problems in effectuating 
the kind of stability and reconciliation they need to effectuate so we 
can have a better capability of reducing the troop levels we have in 
Iraq today.

Now, the way this deal went down--and we voted to send General 
Petraeus there. We talk about making reports back to us. I remember 
distinctly in the Armed Services Committee, when he was up for 
confirmation, I asked General Petraeus did he believe we could be 
successful in Iraq. He said: Yes, sir, I do. General Petraeus had been 
there when the initial invasion occurred. He commanded the 101st 
Airborne in Mosul. He came home for, I think, less than a year and went 
back to take over the training of the Iraqi military. He then came 
back, wrote the Department of Defense manual on how to defeat an 
insurgency operation--the very project he executes--and the President 
has asked him to go back to Iraq to execute a strategy to defeat the 
insurgency that is going on in that country at this time.

So I asked him, would he tell the American people and the Congress 
truthfully whatever the situation was when he was there? He previously 
said this was a difficult but not impossible task he was taking on. He 
said: Senator, you can count on it.

I asked Secretary Gates, the Secretary of Defense, at a hearing: 
Secretary Gates, will you tell the American people if this military 
effort in Iraq cannot succeed and we ought to do something else? He 
said: Yes, sir, Senator. I feel that is my responsibility as Secretary 
of Defense.

I will say to you, my colleagues, let's not flip-flop around here 
every week with another amendment trying to set another strategy, 
written by a group of us sitting in air-conditioned offices, when we 
have some of the best military minds this Nation has ever produced, 
with great depth of experience--by the way, General Petraeus has his 
Ph.D. from Princeton and was No. 1 in his class at the Command and 
General Staff College. He is over there right now, and we have it set 
for him to come back and go through a very deep and serious evaluation 
of what has happened, where we are, and where we need to go in the 
future.


So it is all right. I know we are going to have people talk about 
strategy and alteration in our policy. But I think, in truth, it would 
be more responsible for us to pass this Defense authorization bill, 
which will make the lives of our military men and women far better, 
will make our Defense Department more effective, and will give us a 
better chance of being successful in Iraq. We need to pass this bill. 
We will be coming back in September, no doubt, for a very serious 
debate on how we go from here in Iraq. That is where we are, in my 
opinion.

I respectfully disagree with some who see it otherwise, who think 
they have divine strategy--reading a few newspaper articles, I guess, 
and talking to a few folks and going to Iraq once or twice; I have been 
there six times--and trying to come back and formulate a policy. I do 
not think that is wise right now. I urge our colleagues not to go in 
that direction.

I will take one brief moment to say I respect my colleague from 
Virginia, Senator Webb. I recognize the goals and the desires reflected 
in that amendment--his belief that soldiers ought to have guaranteed 
time of deployments passed by statute by the Congress of the United 
States. But I do not agree. I think this is a very significant 
amendment. I believe it is an amendment that alters the traditional 
power of the President as Commander in Chief. I think it could put us 
in very difficult circumstances in the future.

I urge my colleagues to remember the amendment is not limited to 
Iraq, it covers any military activities we get involved in, in the 
future, any war now or series of wars we may find ourselves in, in the 
future. War is very difficult, indeed.

I remember our former colleague, Senator Strom Thurmond, I think at 
age 40, volunteered to go in the Army.


He had to make them take him. He was a sitting judge. He was not 
required to go. He was deployed to England. I do not know how long he 
had been in at the time D-Day occurred. He volunteered to go in on a 
glider behind enemy lines in the nighttime at the time of the D-Day 
landing to try to protect the soldiers on the beach from 
counterattacks.

I remember asking Strom--former chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee, I will note--I asked: Strom, well, how long did you stay in? 
Did you stay in until Germany surrendered? He said: Yes, sir, we stayed 
in until Germany surrendered--there to the day they surrendered. He 
said: In fact, after Germany surrendered, I was on a train heading 
across the United States to the Pacific. They were going to send us to 
Japan when they dropped the bomb on Japan.

I wish to say, I do not know what General Eisenhower, General 
Marshall, General MacArthur would think about a policy that says, in a 
time of war, Congress is going to decide how long people are deployed. 
I do not think it is good policy for a lot of reasons. I would express 
my objection to the amendment. I know it is well intentioned.

I say this: The military understands it. The military is determined 
to reduce deployment times in Iraq. Secretary Gates has made that 
clear. But had he not been able to extend for 3 months those soldiers 
he extended, it would have required as much as five new brigades to be 
sent over there. Some of them would not have had their full time at 
home that he wanted them to have at home. He thought it was better to 
do it that way than the other way. I believe, under the circumstances, 
that was a correct decision. People could debate that, but I think he 
made the right decision there. So it is better to do it that way. To 
pass a law, sitting here in air-conditioned offices, that is going to 
direct how the military deploys its troops in times of war is something 
I think we should not do.

I yield the floor.