---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `1914ca560b01577612fe4b25409ab629`
`Mr. KIRK — 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. KIRK. I thank our ranking member, Mr. McKeon, and especially our 
chairman, Ike Skelton, for approving one of the amendments in the en 
bloc.

In December, I became the first Member of this House to serve in an 
imminent danger area in Afghanistan in uniform. During my time, I 
learned that most NATO soldiers with our command only deployed for 6 
months and Americans deployed for 12. Only State and USAID personnel 
served for years in Afghanistan.

Major General Flynn, our former J-2 of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, now 
head of all intelligence for the African command under General 
McChrystal, convinced me that we need a core of experts in uniform who 
can deliver on years of commitment to the Afghan deployment, who can 
build especially an expertise in the Afghan languages of Dari and 
Pashtu. This amendment, the Larsen-Kirk amendment, allows a for-the-
duration incentive for members of the military wishing to make a 
deployment to Afghanistan.

It's for-the-duration deployments that helped us win World War II. 
DOD and senior commanders feel that this language that will build a 
dedicated long-term Afghan core of enlisted officers will quickly 
become the leaders of our Afghan NATO effort.

Based on our bipartisan bill that Congressman Larsen and I 
introduced, our bill would lay out a $250,000 payment for a soldier 
willing to make a for-the-duration commitment and another $250,000 for 
a 4.0 or better score in Pashtu or Dari. In my discussions with the 
troops currently in the field in Kandahar, they are pumped up about the 
opportunity that this commitment would be.

I feel that only a small number of soldiers would sign up, but each 
one of them, if strategically placed in key Afghan provinces, would 
become vital assets to our effort and the success of President Obama's 
campaign in Afghanistan. And I really applaud the chairman and the 
ranking minority member for putting this in the bill.