# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `191cff0821ee92e3f018f664062a90b7`
`Mr. BENNET — 4 March 2010`

---


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today 
to honor the life and heroic service of SSG John A. Reiners. Sergeant 
Reiners, a member of the 1st Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment, 4th 
Infantry Division at Fort Carson, CO, died on February 13, 2010. 
Sergeant Reiners was serving in support of Operation Enduring Freedom 
in Kandahar, Afghanistan, when he was killed by an improvised explosive 
device that detonated while he was on patrol. He was 24 years old.

A native of Lakeland, FL, Sergeant Reiners and his family moved to 
Fort Carson in 2009 when he was assigned to the 4th Infantry Division. 
Sergeant Reiners joined the Army in July 2004. He served bravely during 
two tours in Iraq, before being deployed to Afghanistan in November of 
last year.

During 5/1/2/ years of service, Sergeant Reiners distinguished 
himself through his courage, dedication to duty, and willingness to 
take on any challenge--no matter how dangerous. Commanders recognized 
his extraordinary bravery and talent, bestowing on Sergeant Reiners 
numerous awards and medals, including the Purple Heart, the Army 
Commendation Medal, two Army Achievement Medals, the Army Good Conduct 
Medal, and the National Defense Service Medal. He also attended Ranger 
School in 2007, where he earned the prestigious Ranger Tab.

Sergeant Reiners worked on the front lines of battle, patrolling the 
most dangerous areas of Zhari district in Kandahar. He is remembered by 
those who knew him as a consummate professional with an unending 
commitment to excellence. His friends recall Sergeant Reiners saying 
that Army boot camp was too easy. Most of all, they remember his 
devotion to his wife, his son, and his country.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' Sergeant 
Reiners' service was in keeping with this sentiment--by selflessly 
putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He lived without 
fear.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield was 
uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Sergeant Reiners will forever be remembered as one of our 
country's bravest.

To Sergeant Reiners' mother Ronna, his father Gregory, his wife 
Casey, his son Lex, and all his friends and family--I cannot imagine 
the sorrow you must be feeling. I hope that, in time, the pain of your 
loss will be eased by your pride in John's service and by your 
knowledge that his country will never forget him. We are humbled by his 
service and his sacrifice.
