---
---

# CHRISTMAS SPIRIT
## `192311e2866373a4ce805a662d4064e1`
`Mr. BYRD — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Madam President, soon the Senate will recess for Christmas. 
Members will travel home to their families and to their States to share 
in Christmas parades and tree lightings, Christmas cantatas, and 
festivals of lights. They will decorate their own trees and attend the 
Christmas season celebrations in their own churches. Some will make 
trips to Iraq or Afghanistan, while others will comfort people who are 
struggling to recover from wildfires or the recent devastating snow and 
ice storms that have left so many homeless and without power. I join in 
the prayers for their swift recoveries, and I rejoice in the fellowship 
and the support that are flowing to Americans in need all across the 
Nation and all around the world. That fellowship and that support is 
the true spirit of the Christmas season.



 Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas tonight!


 Christmas in lands of the fir-tree and pine,


 Christmas in lands of the palm-tree and vine,


 Christmas where snow peaks solemn and white,


 Christmas where cornfields stand sunny and bright.


 Christmas where children are hopeful and gay,


 Christmas where old men [like I] are patient and gray,


 Christmas, where peace, like a dove in its flight,


 Broods o'er brave men in the thick of the fight;


 Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas tonight!


 For the Christ-child who comes is the Master of all;


 No palace too great, no cottage too small.


Christmas is a special time, no matter where the season finds us. 
Somehow, Christmas lights create their special magic, whether they are 
hung on snow-laden pine trees or wrapped around stately palm trees. 
Christmas carols never fail to bring a nostalgic glow, as they bring to 
mind our childhood celebrations. The smells and fragrances of Christmas 
recall their own delightful memories--the tang of pine boughs brought 
indoors, the spicy warmth of cinnamon, cardamom, cloves and mace, the 
licorice scent of anise, the exotic aroma of nutmeg. Christmas baking 
is one of the best parts of the holiday--Erma always looked forward to 
that part. Christmas baking is one of the best parts of the holiday, 
she would say--as the house fills with mouth-watering aromas. My own 
childhood Christmases were spare, not lavish, but they were full of 
love, given to me by a wonderful old couple who have gone on now to 
meet their reward in heaven.

Today's Christmases should be full of special food and lots of music, 
and if it were like it used to be, it would be played by me, that music 
would be, on my fiddle, to entertain my mom and dad, their friends and 
their borders. My mom ran a boarding house. We never had very much at 
Christmas, not much compared to some of the extravagant gifts 
advertised these days, but our simple celebrations left us more time to 
enjoy some company or the church services or read a Christmas story 
together.

Every family, every town builds its own Christmas traditions. Some 
families visit or host Christmas open houses. Other families gather for 
a traditional Christmas meal. In some towns, people bundle up to watch 
floats go by in the annual Christmas parade, followed by a tree 
lighting ceremony. We have done that in the Nation's capital. I myself 
have lit the tree. There are Christmas tree lighting ceremonies at the 
White House and on Capitol Hill. At Arlington Cemetery and at other 
veterans cemeteries around the Nation, the simple act of a single man 
has grown into a Wreaths Across America, an effort to put fresh wreaths 
on the graves of veterans across the Nation, honoring those who will 
never be home again for Christmas. Other volunteer efforts send living 
Christmas trees to the troops overseas so they, too--our troops, your 
troops, my troops; our soldiers, sailors, and our airmen--can share in 
the Christmas season. In the busy press of family traditions, it is 
heartwarming to discover how many people still find time to remember 
and celebrate the sacrifices made by others.

Although Christmas can bring with it even busier schedules for 
already busy people and monetary stresses for parents trying to make 
the day a special holiday for their children, it is important to recall 
the greatest gift of Christmas is the one embodied in the nativity 
scene--the great gift of unconditional love and hope wrapped in 
swaddling clothes, given by our Creator--our Creator Almighty God--to 
inspire us with His teachings of good will and caring toward all men.

And so, my colleagues, my friends, dear ones all of you; staff, those 
who watch over us every day, it is my Christmas wish that we all keep 
more of that Christmas spirit with us throughout the coming year. 
Charles Dickens said it best:




 I will hold Christmas in heart, and try to keep it all the 


 year.


I guess it was the American editor and author, Oren Arnold, who lived 
from 1900 until 1980, who suggested a wonderful Christmas gift list for 
all of us:




 To your enemy, forgiveness; to an opponent, tolerance; to a 


 friend, your heart; to a customer, service; to all, charity; 


 to every child, a good example; to yourself, respect.


Madam President, I wish you and Louisiana, near the great bay and the 
waters which wash over the soil on which I used to walk with my wife--I 
wish you, Madam President, and everyone listening, a very Merry 
Christmas and a Happy New Year filled with peace and happiness. My God 
bless you all.

I yield the floor.