# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `192b5ddf25d66f6314bbd7c4dec5e251`
`Mr. MAHONEY of Florida — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. MAHONEY of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I normally rise to speak on 
behalf of the people of Florida's 16th Congressional District. Today I 
rise to begin a conversation not only with my colleagues, but with my 
constituents.

This week, this legislative body, the people's House, is engaged in a 
great debate over the President's decision to stay the course in Iraq 
by escalating the number of troops. I have, over the past few days, 
heard many arguments as to the wisdom of the President's decision to do 
so. But the one message that all who have spoken agree with, Democratic 
or Republican, liberal or conservative, is that our brave men and women 
in uniform have done a magnificent job fighting in Iraq and around the 
world to protect our lives, our culture, and our country.



I have heard my colleagues argue that the mere act of debating the 
President's decision to escalate the war sends the wrong message to our 
troops and the wrong message to our enemies. To these colleagues I say 
do not underestimate the power of democracy, the power of freedom of 
speech, the very powers we are fighting to give the people of Iraq. 
Debate sends the message of strength, resolve, and commitment. This 
debate is about finding the best way for America to win the war on 
terror.

I agree with the President that the world is a dangerous place and we 
need to take the war to the terrorists and those who support terror. 
But I disagree with the President that by sending more troops to police 
a civil war in Iraq, America is any closer to winning the war on 
terror. I come to this conclusion as a result of consultations with our 
military leaders, our diplomats, and those in the White House 
responsible for executing the President's policies. I come to this 
conclusion from talking to our men and women in uniform who have served 
with distinction.

Democracy can only happen when a people want it. We have seen time 
and again that a people who yearn for democracy will break the yoke of 
tyranny and liberate themselves from their oppressors. America has 
invested lives of over 3,000 of its best young men and women, sustained 
over 20,000 casualties, and spent nearly $400 billion on the Iraq war. 
We have rid the Iraqi people of a cruel tyrant and have given them the 
opportunity to live in a democracy. American men and women securing a 
street corner in Sadr City will not change the hearts of the Sunni or 
Shia. Additional troops will not secure democracy. Only the men and 
women of Iraq can do that. Now is the time for the Iraqi people to 
stand and demand democracy.

It is time for America to move forward in our fight against terror. 
It is time to focus on eliminating terrorists in Iraq, Afghanistan, or 
wherever they are harbored. It is time to bring Osama bin Laden to 
justice for the crimes he perpetrated on 9/11.

We need to gather our strength and send a clear message to our 
enemies that their continued efforts to support terror and engage in 
activity against America or her allies will result in certain and swift 
justice.

This President needs to do what his father did in the first gulf war 
and what President Clinton did in the Balkans, and that is to 
demonstrate leadership by engaging in diplomacy. This President needs 
to listen to the sage advice of the Baker-Hamilton Commission and use 
America's power and prestige to bring the world together in support of 
the Iraqi people. The world needs to know that America will provide a 
democratic Iraq, and those who support her, with political, economic, 
and military support.

I want my friends in Stuart, Okeechobee, Sebring, LaBelle, and Punta 
Gorda to know that I am here today because democracy requires us to 
speak up and speak out and you deserve to have a voice in this debate. 
In speaking out, I am supporting our President by letting him know that 
we are committed to winning the war on terror, but that we will not 
support his strategy to increase escalation of the troops in Iraq and 
that America will not quit until we have vanquished all who use terror 
to achieve political gain.

We want the Iraqi people to know that this is their moment to grasp 
democracy; and should they choose to do so, the American people will 
continue to support them and their efforts to build a better life for 
their children.

Tomorrow, my colleagues and I will take the important first step in 
showing the President that we support our troops, but do not support 
his plan to invest more American lives to mediate a civil war.

Make no mistake, this vote is binding, as it binds me and my 
colleagues to our constituents by forcing us to take a stand.