---
---

# None
## `192d5b7d143e485ec1cbd04ffb88a922`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Thank you very much, Mr. Altmire.

I want to key off of your last point there, just spend a couple 
moments before we kick it back to Mr. Meek, on that issue of 
bipartisanship. Because you are exactly right. You know, it seems like 
a pretty simple premise that the cost of the war should include taking 
care of the warriors when they return back home, that the cost of the 
war isn't just the guns and the ammunition and the mechanics necessary 
to fight a war in Iraq or Afghanistan, the cost of the war is also 
taking care of those men and women when they get back home. That is 
this war and that is previous wars.

So it sounds like a pretty unanimous premise that we could all get 
behind, but the fact is that we didn't get behind it, and we didn't get 
behind it until the Democrats took control of this Congress. It was 
just platitudes and rhetoric for a long time, ''let's support our 
troops and support our veterans.''



So I think we got to be clear today, as much as we are going to talk 
about the importance of bipartisanship, it took the Democrats to put 
some of these issues out before the House in order to garner bipartisan 
votes. I think that is maybe as important as anything that we have done 
in these first 5 months, is that we have gotten rid of that old rule 
that I heard a little bit about when I was watching this place from 
afar in Connecticut called the ''majority of the majority.''

I heard about this rule where nothing could come to the floor of the 
House of Representatives unless the majority of the majority party 
supported it. So you had very few opportunities for there to be real 
bipartisan cooperation, because you had to have almost unanimous 
agreement from the majority party, at the time the Republicans, in 
order for anything to get down here to the floor of the House.

We talked a lot, Mr. Meek, when we stood up here after that sort of 
glorious first 100 hours about those bills, those six or seven bills 
that we passed, and how many Republicans we had on board with each one 
of those. They were really remarkable numbers. On average we had 60-70 
Republican votes for each one of those. It doesn't get covered much in 
the news. The news wants to cover just the grinding and gnashing of the 
two parties.

We had a lot of bipartisan cooperation, and that has continued. That 
has continued. In the last few weeks here we had on a bill to 
reauthorize funding for children's healthcare, we had 123 Republicans 
supporting it. That same 123 Republicans supporting increased record 
funding for Katrina recovery. On the joint funding resolution that 
finally restored some fiscal balance to this country, we had 57 
Republicans supporting it. Increasing the minimum wage, 82 Republicans.

I know when you turn on the cable news networks you are not going to 
hear about the times that we agree. But why a lot us were so 
enthusiastic to stop by and send well wishes to Speaker Pelosi on her 
20 years in Congress is because she has made good on her commitment to 
make this the most open and ethical and bipartisan Congress in a real, 
real long time.

I know, Mr. Meek, this doesn't get the headlines all the time, that 
the newspapers want to talk about the places that we conflict. But 
there has been a lot of cooperation here and it has mattered. I think 
it has made a difference.

I think one of the things the people don't understand is sort of how 
this place works, and I certainly didn't understand it until I got 
here.

It used to be it was impossible, virtually impossible, for Democrats 
to get their amendments heard on the floor of the House of 
Representatives. You were going to get a bill introduced by the 
Republicans, and that was about it. No more debate, no changes, no 
amendments. Nothing. No real opportunity for the People's House to 
actually engage in a real argument, in a process of coming up with a 
better piece of legislation.

That has changed now. In the first 5 months of 2005, we had two what 
are called open rules, bills in which any Member can put forth an 
amendment, have a chance to have that idea vetted and aired out before 
the House of Representatives. We have quadrupled the number of bills 
that have come before this House under a so-called open rule.

I know these are sort of arcane terms that people out there may not 
understand, but they matter. It means that every single one of the 435 
people that are elected here have a chance to make a bill better, have 
a chance to have their voice their constituents' voices heard. For a 
long time it was shut down.

So it was a good night tonight to be able to celebrate Speaker 
Pelosi's two decades here in the House. A lot of us are excited about 
the potential that lies before us to be able to really reset our 
direction in Iraq, to do better things in energy policy, to stand up 
for working families.

But for a lot of us that came here on the backs and shoulders of our 
constituents who have virtually lost complete faith in politics, maybe 
we are just as excited about the fact that, despite what you may see in 
the cable news networks or reading the headlines, we actually are 
starting slowly to bring people together here, to open up this House, 
this process, again, to make it a true bipartisan People's House.