---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `19555c2c07dcbfffc8bd08dfb6238b27`
`Mr. ANDREWS — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. ANDREWS. Madam Chair, I rise in support of this bill which I 
believe merits the support of Members of both parties because it makes 
three strategic judgements that are very sound and very right.

First, it makes the judgment that the highest priority of the 
Congress should be the pay, the benefits and the well-being of the 
families of the men and women who wear the uniform of the country. 
Together, as Republicans and Democrats, we're doing more in this bill 
than we've ever done before to serve those needs.

Second, this bill makes the right strategic judgment to deal with the 
urgent present needs of men and women in theater in the field. Yes, 
this is at the expense of future systems that will some day aid our 
competitive edge. And I believe in funding those systems. But the 
choice we need to make today is the up-armored vehicles, the weaponry, 
the training, the support for men and women in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in 
the heat of battle today. This is the right strategic judgment.

Finally, this bill decides to take $764 million out of strategic 
missile defense, still giving the President 91.5 percent of what he 
asked for, and spending the money on securing loose nuclear material in 
the former Soviet Union, spending the money on converting reactors that 
could be turned into bomb material in the former Soviet Union. These 
threats were identified as the principal threat to the national 
security by the 9/11 Commission. This is the right strategic judgment.

For these and many other reasons, I would urge both Democrats and 
Republicans to vote ''yes'' on this very fine bill.

