---
---

# None
## `1955ab955557cf66cdda5b4d0e3e25da`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 
3087, a bill that I voted for--along with 54 of my colleagues--when the 
Armed Services Committee considered it in July.

As amended in committee, H.R. 3087 requires the Secretary of Defense 
to submit a comprehensive redeployment strategy for U.S. troops in Iraq 
and requires that the Secretary and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff brief the House and Senate Defense Committees on its contents 
within 60 days, and every 90 days thereafter.

This legislation underscores the importance of contingency planning--
something I called for earlier this year when I introduced H.R. 1183, 
the Iraq Contingency Planning Act. It also underscores the importance 
of requiring the Defense Department to share its planning with 
Congress. The sharing can be done in a classified way, but Congress 
needs to be informed about these plans if we are to be prepared to 
respond to what these plans may call for.

We remember that in 2003, President Bush launched a war in Iraq 
without a plan for what would come after initial military sucess. We 
all know where that has led us, and so as a member of the Armed 
Services Committee, I want assurances that this administration is 
thinking about and planning for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from 
Iraq--whether it happens tomorrow or next month or next year.

Madam Speaker, this legislation isn't intended to solve the larger 
problem of Iraq. To do that, we need a policy aimed at escalating 
diplomatic and political efforts and lightening the U.S. footprint in 
Iraq. But although there is widespread support for redeploying our 
troops, there is not yet sufficient support in Congress to override a 
Presidential veto on any major change in our Iraq policy.

That's another reason this bill is important. So long as we lack a 
sufficient majority to override his veto, we Democrats can't force the 
President to change course without Republican support. Only Democrats 
and Republicans working together can find the path out of Iraq. This 
bill is a small step forward in building that bipartisan support, so I 
will vote for it again today, while I continue to work with colleagues 
on both sides of the aisle on further steps we can take to change our 
broader Iraq policy.