---
---

# THE IRANIAN NUCLEAR THREAT
## `195ffb7f379aabd051baa1e6ac76e305`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona — 29 September 2008`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Madam Speaker, it has been a profoundly 
significant day in the House of Representatives. And I suppose one of 
the things I would like to say first, Madam Speaker, is that the world 
will go on. We have made a decision today, I believe, that will 
ultimately serve the United States well. I believe the economic 
challenges before us in this country are significant. I also believe 
that we should always prefer temporary failure at that which will 
ultimately succeed than temporary success at that which will ultimately 
fail. And I believe that market factors were put in place long before 
this President came into office that are ultimately responsible for the 
challenges that we face today. However, I also believe that we're going 
in the right direction.

Senator John empowered House Republicans in a very significant way a 
few days ago. And we made tremendous improvements, I believe, to move 
this toward a market-based bill that will call upon the private sector 
to capitalize the recovery of this economy. And I believe we're going 
in the right direction. And for those, Madam Speaker, that would 
question the commitment of this Government to make sure that we 
stabilize our economy, I would say to them, just wait. We will come up 
with something that will be far better than anything that we've 
discussed heretofore. And I believe that ultimately we will succeed and 
that America will be stronger and better for the fact that we have 
stepped back and chosen to regroup and come together to make an even 
better plan.

Madam Speaker, tonight I come really not to talk about the economy. I 
come to talk about something that in my judgment can affect the 
economy, the national security, and each one of the citizens of this 
country, and even the freedom of the world in a very significant way. I 
would remind us that as we talk about economic challenges, we have to 
remember that we are talking about a $700 billion bill today, and yet 
remember that two airplanes hitting two buildings cost this economy $2 
trillion. September 11 certainly was more than just an attack on the 
Trade Center.

But the fact is that it had a profound impact on our economy. And we 
need


to understand that as we deal with the economic issues that plague this 
Nation, they have always been there. But so have issues of significant 
national security.

And so tonight I want to address this body on something that I have 
wanted to address it for a long time. Because I believe that a nuclear 
Iran represents one of the greatest threats to peace facing the human 
family.

So, Madam Speaker, let me begin first by saying that there are 
millions of innocent, freedom-loving citizens in Iran who are truly 
good and gentle people suffering under brutality and oppression. They 
long for true freedom and partnership with the international community. 
To them, I first want to say that America stands with you. To them I 
first also want to say that we long to see you become a true democratic 
ally in the Middle East that rejects the ideology of jihadist terrorism 
and upholds the protection of the innocent and equal human dignity. 
America will do everything in our power to hasten the day when Iran and 
its proxies will no longer threaten the world with nuclear jihad, and 
when we will have the privilege of walking together, I pray, Madam 
Speaker, in the sunlight of human freedom.

And, Madam Speaker, almost exactly 3 years ago, I stood at this 
podium and called upon the United States to clearly define its position 
towards what is now the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism, the 
Islamic Republic of Iran is, in my judgment, the world's largest 
sponsor of state terrorism. And I called upon the IAEA to refer Iran to 
the Security Council at that time because I believed then, and I 
believe now, that Iran is systematically pursuing the development of 
nuclear weapons.

At that time, while Iranian President Ahmadinejad had made very clear 
his intentions to pursue nuclear capability, to eradicate the nation of 
Israel and to offer material support to Hezbollah and other nonstate 
terrorist actors, the nation of Iran had not yet been referred to the 
United Nations Security Council.

Since then, Iran has been the object of two American resolutions that 
ban trade and freeze assets of Iran's nuclear and related entities. 
Beginning from August, 2006, Iran has blatantly ignored deadlines 
established by the International Atomic Energy Agency, or IAEA, and 
refused to comply with repeated Security Council deadlines to cease its 
uranium enrichment.

Meanwhile, the lack of regard by the Government of Iran for innocent 
human life has continued to be horribly demonstrated in its own human 
rights violations that currently plague the entire nation that are 
causing the Iranian people to suffer. Ahmadinejad's tyrannical regime 
continues its brutal suppression of dissension by routinely employing 
torture, executions, kidnappings and arbitrary arrests and detentions.

Despite claiming to desire peace, Iranian President Ahmadinejad has 
undermined every advancement toward peace and emerging democracy in the 
Middle East by actively supporting terrorist groups such as Hezbollah, 
Hamas, Shiite insurgents and militias in Iraq that are responsible for 
killing and maiming U.S. and Coalition forces and countless innocent 
citizens.

Iran, Madam Speaker, has now catalyzed a nuclear arms race in the 
Middle East. Previously there was only one nuclear aspirant in the 
Middle East. That was Iran. Now there are ten.

Now, Madam Speaker, the coincidence of jihadist terrorism and nuclear 
proliferation represents the greatest immediate threat to the peace of 
the human family in the world today. Iran, because of its ideology, 
represents a significant danger. The past 2 years have provided 
incontrovertible evidence of the conclusion reached in the March, 2006, 
''National Security Strategy'' report. Let me quote it verbatim, Madam 
Speaker.
