---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `1963267ceeeb0701d0689be367cf4ff0`
`Mr. McCAIN — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, again, unfortunately, a lot of the 
information we have to get is through the media rather than testimony 
before the Senate Armed Services Committee. I do think it is worthy of 
note that there is a story dated October 1, 2009, which says:




 The top military commander in Afghanistan, Gen. Stanley A. 


 McChrystal, rejected calls for scaling down military 


 objectives




 there on Thursday and said Washington did not have unlimited 


 time to settle on a new strategy to pursue the eight-year-old 


 war.



 . . . General McChrystal said that the situation in 


 Afghanistan was serious and that ''neither success nor 


 failure can be taken for granted.'' . . .



 General McChrystal was asked by a member of an audience 


 that included retired military commanders and security 


 specialists whether he would support an idea put forward by 


 Mr. Biden to scale back the American military presence in 


 Afghanistan to focus on tracking down the leaders of Al 


 Qaeda, in place of the current broader effort now under way 


 to defeat the Taliban.



 ''The short answer is: no,'' he said. ''You have to 


 navigate from where you are, not where you wish to be. A 


 strategy that does not leave Afghanistan in a stable position 


 is probably a short-sighted strategy.''



 He did not mention Mr. Biden by name.


All of us here have great affection and appreciation for the Vice 
President. We have all gotten to know him and like him over the years. 
But the fact is, the Vice President of the United States, in the first 
gulf war, after Saddam Hussein had invaded Kuwait, voted against the 
resolution, saying it would be another Vietnam war. He has voted 
consistently against U.S. involvement. And the latest, of course, was 
when his idea was to divide Iraq into three different countries. So the 
Vice President does have a clear record of being consistently wrong. I 
hope that is taken into consideration when he comes up with his ideas 
about Afghanistan.




 General McChrystal has been reported to be seeking as many 


 as 40,000 additional American troops for the war, a number 


 that has generated concern among other top American 


 commanders.


But that number--which is known to everyone, and keeps being 
reported--that number is not going to be transmitted to the President 
by the Secretary of Defense. You can't make that up. Everybody knows 
it, but it is not going to be sent to the President by the Secretary of 
Defense.

Anyway:




 In a confidential assessment of the war last month now 


 under consideration by the Obama administration, General 


 McChrystal said that he needs additional troops within the 


 next year or else the conflict ''will likely result in 


 failure.''


Mr. President, we have a limited amount of time, but I do not have to 
tell most people and colleagues here what the consequences of failure 
in Afghanistan might be. So what we are asking is, sometime within the 
next month and a half--the next month and a half--that we get General 
McChrystal in particular but also the most brilliant general I have 
ever encountered in my life, General Petraeus, and others, to testify 
before the Senate Armed Services Committee. Maybe the House Armed 
Services Committee, whose chairman said they needed that testimony, 
will proceed without us. I would feel very badly if the U.S. Senate 
were not given the same opportunity to have General McChrystal and 
General Petraeus appear before them, as the House Armed Services 
Committee chairman has said they want.

I want to emphasize to my colleagues, we are asking, sometime within 
the next 45 days, an appearance by the leaders we have put in charge of 
the lives of our young American men and women. We are just asking for 
them to come and testify before our committees of jurisdiction, to 
exercise our responsibilities as representatives of our States. That is 
all we are asking. That is all we are asking.

There are already 68,000 there. They are being wounded and killed as 
we speak. And as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has said: 
Time is not on our side. The situation is deteriorating.

Shouldn't the Senate Armed Services Committee and, through us, the 
American people and the Senate Appropriations Committee, which has its 
responsibilities, also hear from these great leaders who are in charge 
of the lives and safety and well-being of our men and women in uniform 
and are charged with achieving victory and not defeat, achieving 
success and not failure in Afghanistan?

Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time.