---
---

# COLOMBIA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
## `1967196dd86863986b7365d568e9a50d`
`Mr. DREIER — 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. DREIER. Madam Speaker, thank you very much. It is true that today 
is the day that the American people have their obligation to pay taxes 
for the American government to continue to function. And obviously, 
there are many good things that the Federal Government does, and there 
are many not so good things that the Federal Government does.

But one of the things that I think is very important for us to focus 
attention on, especially as we deal with a challenging economy, is the 
need for us to ensure that, as stewards of those taxpayer dollars, 
those dollars fund this institution, the greatest deliberative body 
known to man, and we need to ensure that we put into place policies 
that will encourage strong, dynamic, economic growth and to make sure 
that there are opportunities for every single American. And Madam 
Speaker, we're going to talk about that this evening.

I have to say that my original intentions for this special order were 
a little different than they are going to end up being tonight. I'd 
planned to join tonight with several of my colleagues who have spent 
time in Colombia. I'd planned to talk about what I've personally 
witnessed there, and I'd invited many of my colleagues to do the same.

I'd hoped to make this a bipartisan endeavor, and I extended 
invitations to several of my Democratic colleagues to participate this 
evening. And I will say that I still do hope that we might have a 
chance to do that. And one of our Democratic colleagues did come up to 
me and say that he had hoped to participate.

I thought that this was very important, because I knew that when the 
President sent, a week ago today, when he sent the implementing 
legislation for the U.S/Colombia Free Trade Agreement, a 60-day clock, 
under trade promotion authority, would begin. We would have 60 
legislative days to hold a vote on the agreement. This meant that the 
House of Representatives would face a vote on the U.S./Colombia Free 
Trade Agreement some time in probably late July. That would leave us 3 
months for debate, discussion, education, and enlightenment about what 
this agreement would mean to the American people.

However, despite the ample time granted under trade promotion 
authority, I knew that many of my colleagues, particularly my 
Democratic colleagues, remained deeply ambivalent on the trade 
agreement itself. We certainly saw that as we had this debate last 
week.

For this reason, it was my hope that this special order this evening 
would be opening the 3-month discussion in a bipartisan way, and what I 
wanted to do was I wanted to shift the focus away from the free trade 
agreement, and I'd hoped that a group of Republicans and Democrats 
who've gone to Colombia could come together here on the House floor to 
simply share our experiences and describe what we've seen in Colombia, 
over the past year, or at least a half a year.

I knew that much of the free trade agreement debate would hinge on 
the current situation, as it exists in Colombia, what progress has been 
made, what steps has the Colombian government taken.

I wanted this debate to stay grounded in facts and a full 
understanding of the Colombia, of 2008, not a caricature of the 
Colombia past. I'd thought that bipartisan, firsthand testimony would 
further that goal of allowing the American people and our colleagues to 
understand the changes that have taken place in Colombia.

Unfortunately, Madam Speaker, the landscape here in the House was 
drastically altered last week when my California colleague, Speaker 
Pelosi, took the unprecedented step, never before had this been done, 
but it was a step of changing the Rules of the House in order to block 
a vote on the free trade agreement.

In one fell swoop, she ended 3 months, what would be the beginning, 
and tonight would have been part of that, of substantive, bipartisan 
deliberation before it even had the chance to begin. Apparently, she 
didn't like her odds in what would clearly have been a fair fight, so 
she changed the rules in the middle of the game.

The condemnation from around the country came swiftly. Now, I have 
control of the floor now for an hour, and I could easily fill the 
entire 1 hour simply by reading the scathing editorials that have come 
about over the past week reproaching the Democratic leadership for 
their petulant act. The New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, the 
Washington Post, hardly mouthpieces for Republicans or President Bush. 
And even Speaker Pelosi's hometown newspaper, the San Francisco 
Chronicle. All, Madam Speaker, have had the harshest of words for the 
dangerous and unprecedented action that was taken here last week.

Now, I'll read just a few of those highlights. I mentioned Speaker 
Pelosi's hometown newspaper, the San Francisco Chronicle, a paper that 
I actually enjoy reading myself, but again, far from being a Republican 
mouthpiece. They accuse Speaker Pelosi of ''pandering'' and ''playing 
politics.''


It points out that the decision to block a vote on the agreement is 
especially egregious, considering that she represents a region that 
heavily depends on exports for its economic competitiveness and job 
creation, particularly through its ports.

My hometown paper, the Los Angeles Times, stated it very plainly, and 
I quote. ''Halting the vote wasn't about the U.S. economy and wasn't 
about Colombia. It was about politics.'' That's what the Los Angeles 
Times, again, hardly a Republican mouthpiece, had to say.

It points out that the FTA creates quite a bind for the Democratic 
leadership because what is good for their party is bad for the United 
States of America.

It highlights the current imbalance in our trade relationship. We 
have an open market, yet face barriers in Colombia.

I'll say that again. And Los Angeles Times pointed that out, Madam 
Speaker. We allow the rest of the world, including Colombia now, under 
the ATPA, the Andean Trade Preference Agreement, we allow them access 
to the U.S. consumer market. All this agreement that we had hoped to be 
debating now, but the clock has stopped on that. All this agreement 
would do was level that playing field and allow


U.S. workers to have a chance to send their products into Colombia.

The New York Times, in its editorial, Madam Speaker, emphasizes not 
just the economic consequences but the foreign policy implications as 
well. It declares that last week's actions ''reduce the United States' 
credibility and leverage in Colombia and beyond,'' adding that it 
''serves human rights in Colombia no good'' whatsoever. The cause of 
human rights, about which many of our colleagues rarely talk, and which 
we're all concerned about, would do no good by not proceeding with 
consideration.

The New York Times is certainly, as I said, no knee-jerk supporter of 
the agreement. Actually, they, last year, in the New York Times, 
proposed postponing the consideration. And that was last year. And yet 
this year they are strong proponents of our moving ahead with this.

The Washington Post, Madam Speaker, was the quickest of all the major 
papers to condemn Speaker Pelosi's decision, equating the move to 
telling Colombia to ''drop dead.'' That's what the Washington Post had 
to say, and calling into question the Democrats credibility and 
judgment.

The message from around the Nation has been clear and unequivocal. 
The unprecedented rule change was a grave mistake that should be 
corrected immediately by proceeding with a vote. The damage described 
in those editorials is twofold, economic and international. Now, I 
would add an additional level to that that really hasn't been pointed 
to in a lot of these editorials, the institutional damage that has been 
done.

Now, first the economic damage. As I said just a moment ago, the 
Andean Trade Preferences Act, which Congress renewed just a few weeks 
ago, allows all Colombian goods, virtually all Colombian goods to enter 
the United States duty free. They have full access to our market, and 
we don't get the same treatment today. American goods face an average 
of 14 percent tariff on goods that we are sending into the Colombian 
market, with agricultural products facing particularly steep barriers.

These preferences, like all of our preference system, have enjoyed 
overwhelming bipartisan support in Congress. So Democrats and 
Republicans have come together to say that we should allow these 
Colombian goods to come into the United States, their products, whether 
it's coffee, cut flowers, bananas, it allows them to virtually tariff 
free come into United States. So Democrats and Republicans alike said 
that's good for our consumers.

And yet, this free trade agreement, which would end the imbalance and 
extend that same preferential treatment for American exports, is 
opposed by the Democratic leadership.

It's a bizarre quirk of American politics. The Democrats always 
support trade as charity. They'll gladly give away one-sided trade 
without a second thought. But as soon as we propose to make it 
reciprocal and create a direct benefit for our own workers as well, 
they cry foul. To add to the absurdity, they do it in the name of 
protecting American workers.

Now, we're in a time, as I said, today is Tax Day, April 15. We're 
dealing, unfortunately, with an economic slowdown, and there is a great 
deal of economic anxiety throughout the United States of America and in 
other parts of the world. You might think that we could finally put 
politics aside and make the rational, logical decision to give American 
workers equal treatment and to protect American exports by creating new 
markets for U.S. goods and services. But unfortunately, and bizarrely, 
that's apparently not the case. By blocking a vote on the Colombia Free 
Trade Agreement, the Democratic leadership has blocked a clear win for 
our exports and the workers who produce those exports.



The second form of damage that has been done is in the international 
arena. Again, we wander into the absurd. Time and again, I hear my 
Democratic colleagues decry what they call our diminished standing in 
the world. President Bush has, in fact, diminished our standing and in 
fact is a big part of the presidential campaign.

They accuse the administration of unilateralism and a disregard for 
our allies. They say that that has hurt our leadership and our 
credibility in the international community. And in the presidential 
campaign, they promise, Senators Clinton and Obama, they promise to 
restore our prestige.

And yet the Democratic leadership raced to sabotage our relationship 
with our best and closest ally in South America with what could only be 
described as reckless abandon. Following a mere 1 hour of debate, they 
chose to treat our close democratic friend in our very own hemisphere, 
a slap in the face is the way this was described by the Vice President 
of Colombia, or as the Las Vegas Review Journal put it, a stab in the 
back. That's how the action that was taken here last week has been 
characterized.

Colombian democracy has grown steadily stronger under the courageous 
leadership of President Uribe with whom I spoke today. His popularity 
has soared above 70 percent and stayed there because he took his 
country from the brink of a failed State and put it back on the path of 
peaceful and prosperous stability. He's strengthened democratic 
institutions, not least of which is a Justice Department that has 
aggressively tackled the culture of impunity for murderers.

Under Uribe's presidency, crime has plummeted, largely because he has 
aggressively pursued the eco-terrorist guerillas and the equally 
murderous paramilitaries. The former have been pushed from their 
stronghold, and the latter have been systematically dismantled and 
their leadership imprisoned. The rank-and-file are beginning the long 
and difficult process of rehabilitation and reintegration into society 
with the help of government-funded social programs. The same has been 
offered to rank-and-file guerrillas who wish to surrender their arms.

Now, Madam Speaker, I had the opportunity to witness the real-world 
implications of these demobilization efforts. When I was in Colombia 
last August, several of my colleagues and I had the chance to sit down 
with former paramilitary members. These are young men and women, and I 
do mean young, teenagers in most cases, who had heart-wrenching tales 
to share with us. We heard from one young man who described his 
parents' murder right before his eyes. In his grief and anger, he 
turned to vigilantism. Like so many Colombians spanning multiple 
generations, he experienced the horror of violence, and he turned to 
violence himself.

The leaders of these paramilitary groups, like their guerrilla 
counterparts, committed heinous acts of violence and are now paying 
their debt to society. As remarkable an achievement as that is, the 
much harder part is bringing these young men and women, like those who 
I met, back into society.

I met them at a vocational training facility where they are learning 
the skills that will allow them to provide for themselves and become 
responsible members of society. They're learning to leave their violent 
past behind them and contribute to a peaceful and prosperous Colombia.

These efforts undertaken by President Uribe's government are already 
serving as a model for other post-conflict countries that have faced 
similar challenges. The process, Madam Speaker, of demobilization and 
reconciliation is not easy. There is still a great deal of work that 
needs to be done. While most paramilitary groups have been dismantled, 
there are still vigilantes in the jungle. There are still violent 
leaders at large who must go to jail. The guerrilla groups have yet to 
lay down their arms. And even as demobilization goes forward, the work 
of reintegration will take years.

But, Madam Speaker, I saw firsthand, as I know my colleagues who are 
going to be participating in this Special Order have. Tough work is 
being done, and it is being done with great success.

At the same time this transformation is taking place, Colombia has 
also faced a formidable foe of democracy on its border. We all know 
very well. Hugo Chavez has long been working to dismantle democratic 
institutions and free markets in his country of Venezuela and to export 
his authoritarian designs throughout the region. He suppressed dissent, 
trashed the Venezuelan constitution and squashed free


enterprise. He's interfered with the elections of his neighbors and 
drawn Ecuador and Bolivia into his orbit.

He keeps company with Daniel Ortega, Fidel Castro, and Mahmoud 
Ahmedinejad. His anti-democratic institutions for this hemisphere are 
no secret, and he is as openly hostile to the region's bulwarks of 
democracy as he is to the United States of America. Just weeks ago, he 
sent troops to his border with Colombia in a naked act of hostility. 
Flush with oil money, we all know that Hugo Chavez poses a grave threat 
to Latin America.

President Uribe, facing enormous challenges within his own borders 
and on the front lines of this ideological battle, is standing up. 
Colombia, under his leadership, is actively countering the influence of 
Hugo Chavez by acting as a model of the great gains to be made in a 
free and transparent democracy.

With seemingly little thought for the cause of democracy or U.S. 
interests, the Democratic leadership has disregarded both with last 
week's vote. Only time will tell the extent of the damage to our 
relationship with Colombia or our struggle to rein in the influence of 
Hugo Chavez. The damage to our credibility may be even more durable, 
unfortunately.

We have now sent a clear message to our partners: our word at the 
negotiating table is cheap, and if we don't like how things are going, 
we will just change the rules in the middle of the process. The 
implications extend well beyond trade. The United States is engaged in 
a great many negotiations on a great many issues: Israeli-Palestinian 
peace talks, nuclear nonproliferation, regional diplomatic efforts for 
Iraq. If our word to our close friends can't be trusted, how will we 
effectively engage around the globe?

Our credibility, Madam Speaker, and our leadership in the 
international community can hardly endure when they are so casually 
disregarded by this body.

This was the main thrust of the criticism from editorial boards 
across the country. But to economic and foreign policy damage, I would 
add institutional damage. Ironically, the vote to kill the free trade 
agreement succeeded because the Democratic leadership effectively 
argued to its membership that it was in the House's interest, this 
institution's interest to do so. They appealed to that institutional 
and party pride. I have already discussed the issue of party pride, 
Madam Speaker, as the L.A. Times editorialized, it's no secret on this 
issue, Democratic party interests run counter to our Nation's interest.

But the claims of institutional prerogative are utterly specious. 
During the rule debate last week, I went through the administration's 
requirements under Trade Promotion Authority chapter and verse, and I 
won't belabor them here. Suffice it to say, the Trade Promotion 
Authority was not ambiguous in its demands. I was involved in the 
negotiations in putting trade promotion authorities together. It is 
very, very rigorous because I believe in the first branch of 
government, I'm a believer in this institution, and I believe that we 
have very important rights.


The requirements for any administration under Trade Promotion 
Authority are laid out very clearly, and as my colleagues who are here 
on the floor know, this administration followed those directives to the 
letter in both spirit and in letter. They followed it to a T. These 
requirements were designed to ensure that Congress is consulted at 
every single step of the way. This goal was demonstrably and 
unequivocally achieved.

But under Trade Promotion Authority, there are two sets of processes: 
There is the negotiating process, which closely involves Congress but 
is led by the administration, and there is the congressional process. 
Both processes are unambiguously defined by very strict timetables.

The first timeline was followed. The second timeline was abrogated. 
One side followed the rules in good faith; the other side cheated. The 
Charlottesville Daily Progress outlined the implications of these 
actions perfectly, and they said, ''If rules of procedure mean nothing, 
then the legislative process can be warped, and moreover, it can be 
warped at the discretion of a single powerful person. This is not the 
way democracy should work. The effort to change the rules after the 
process was under way dishonors Congress.''

Those are not my words. Those are the words of the editorial written 
in the Charlottesville Daily Progress.

Madam Speaker, so much for institutional pride. The message the 
Democratic leadership has sent is that the ends justify the means. And 
what lofty goal did they sacrifice institutional integrity for? Killing 
an agreement, killing an agreement that extends preferential treatment 
to American workers and strengthens a key democratic ally in our own 
hemisphere.

No wonder the condemnation came so swiftly, and my staff has done a 
great deal of research. We have yet to find an editorial that is in 
support of the actions of the Speaker. As I said, her hometown paper, 
the New York Times, the Washington Post, on and on and on, we're going 
to discuss some of those further in just a minute. It is not too late 
though, Madam Speaker, it is not too late to correct this.

We were supposed to have a 3-month process of debate and 
deliberations. We can still have it. We were supposed to have a vote at 
the end of that process. The Democratic leadership can still commit to 
do it.

I mentioned the fact that I spoke with President Uribe a few hours 
ago. He's patient and he's optimistic. Frankly, he has no choice other 
than to be patient and optimistic. Madam Speaker, I call on Speaker 
Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer to make a commitment to hold a vote on 
this very important Colombia Free Trade Agreement prior to the August 
recess. I call on them to quit demagoging this issue and let their 
rank-and-file Members vote their conscience.

I will say that I completely disagree with the statement made by 
Speaker Pelosi here last week. She said that one of the reasons she 
didn't want this vote is that she was afraid it would go down to 
defeat. As I look at my colleagues who have joined me here, we've been 
working in a bipartisan way, and I'm not going to state the names of 
any of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle; but the fact of 
the matter is, in going through this 3-month process, I have every 
confidence that a bipartisan majority of this institution would 
recognize that helping American workers, strengthening a democratic 
ally, doing everything that we can for the word of this institution, 
would be the right thing to do. I know that because, frankly, more than 
a few Democrats have told me that they want to have a choice to vote 
for and support this measure.

Passage of the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement is clearly in our 
economic and our foreign policy interest. Blocking it is clearly not. 
And changing the rules in the middle of the game because you're afraid 
of a fair fight is not defensible. It's time for us to exert true 
leadership as an institution and make sure that we pass this agreement.

So those are my prepared remarks, Madam Speaker. And I'm so proud 
that I have been joined by a number of my colleagues, all of whom have 
been great champions in this effort and have worked on the notion of 
expanding opportunities for U.S. goods and services to be sold all 
around the world.

And one of the great leaders who has been pursuing this, specifically 
in this hemisphere for many, many years and was a great champion of the 
Central American Free Trade Agreement and a wide range of other free 
trade initiatives, comes from a State, by the way, that is the 
headquarters for Caterpillar, and we know that by not passing this free 
trade agreement, we are preventing good, hardworking Caterpillar 
employees from having an opportunity to duty-free sell their very 
important equipment into Colombia. And I'm very happy at this time to 
yield to my very, very good friend who I'm saddened to say will not be 
joining us in the 111th Congress because he's chosen to retire to spend 
time with his wonderful, wonderful and very young family, but I'm happy 
to yield to my friend from Illinois (Mr. Weller).