# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `1967c22b1630a278a966d03dfa78bccb`
`Mr. LOTT — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, let me point out that was an important vote 
we had. It was overwhelming. The Senate voted for cloture 87 to 10. So 
there is not going to be any prolonged, dilatory action here. 
Republicans and Democrats want to get this bill to conclusion. People 
on both sides of the aisle want to make sure that we don't act on this 
legislation in such a way that we wind up costing people jobs or 
costing small business men and women the opportunity to provide jobs.

We are making progress. The Finance Committee came out with a 
unanimous, bipartisan package which is now going to be a part of what 
we do here. We are going to get through this process in a reasonable 
period of time.

Our leaders, I am sure, are talking about how exactly we can get to 
conclusion and what we will go to next. But we have only had about 3 
days, as was pointed out, on which we were actually dealing with 
amendments and making progress.

There have been 76 amendments filed. There are still 26 pending. We 
have disposed of 17 amendments. So we are making progress. But the vote 
that just took place did block some Members who had legitimate 
amendments which are relevant, although they are not germane 
postcloture, and there are a few amendments that are germane 
postcloture. So I assume we will get to a conclusion after some of 
those amendments are considered, and we will complete this legislation 
before this week is out and then we can move on to the next issue which 
is of concern to everybody, and that is the Iraq resolution.

I wanted the Record to reflect we are making progress and that there 
is not an action out of the ordinary to delay this bill. We have been 
through this before, and actually we are going to complete action in 
what is probably about a normal period of time for this type of 
legislation.

I yield the floor.
