---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `197bb03f8b9f07e5e2524a5bd68c64a0`
`Mr. INOUYE — 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I rise today to address the F-22 program. 
For the past week as the debate has swirled around on this program I 
have not spoken on the subject. My colleagues know that I have strongly 
supported the F-22 program over the past two decades. Why? Because it 
is without question the world's most advanced fighter aircraft. It's 
capabilities far outstrip anything else in the world. There simply is 
no match.

When the Advanced Tactical Fighter Program began more than 20 years 
ago, no one could foresee what the world would look like in 2009. We 
planned to build 750 F-22s in order to match the Soviet Union's assumed 
far greater number of advanced fighters. The F-22 was designed with a 
goal of defeating 10 Soviet fighters apiece. The strategy was that 
using a combination of stealth and an advanced radar the F-22 would be 
able to attack Soviet fighters long before the adversary knew they were 
there.

I am pleased to note that 20 years later as we train with the F-22 
our Air Force pilots report that is exactly what it can do. Time after 
time as we exercise with the F-22, the results are nearly the same. The 
F-22 defeats all


adversaries nearly with the same predictions as the designers hoped it 
would do.

What has changed, however, is that the Soviet Union no longer poses 
the threat that was assumed by the Defense Department in the 1980s. So 
then, critics say, why do we need to continue to buy more? We will soon 
have 187 aircraft that should be sufficient.

They note that the F-22 hasn't been used in Afghanistan. While that 
is considered a clear argument that it isn't needed, it is laughable. 
As far as I know al- Qaida and the Taliban don't have an air force. The 
F-22 is designed to defeat conventional military forces. It is 
designed, for example, to counter a conventional attack by an adversary 
against one of its neighbors. Were the Chinese to attack Taiwan, the F-
22 would provide an incredible counter to the Chinese. The same would 
be true if a resurgent Russia were to try to reclaim countries in the 
Baltics. Unless we truly believe that we will never face another nation 
state in a conventional conflict then the F-22 is indeed necessary.

At 187 aircraft, the F-22 provides a very credible deterrent to those 
nations. Is it sufficient? Perhaps. Will the Joint Strike Fighter 
replace it, not a chance. The Joint Strike Fighter, we expect, will be 
a terrific aircraft, but it is designed primarily to attack ground 
targets. In a battle against the F-22, it would likely lose each 
engagement. With better trained pilots and tactics, the Joint Strike 
Fighter could probably give the F-22 a run for its money, but it was 
never designed to replace the F-22 and should not be viewed as such.

To me what is maddening about this debate is the sense that the 
decision is so clear cut that the F-22 program should be killed that it 
is only parochial politics that could keep it alive. That is pure 
hogwash.

The Nation has invested more than $65 billion to develop and buy 187 
aircraft. If we choose to buy more F-22s we will do so at a very 
reasonable price--about $150 million. While that is not cheap by any 
stretch of the imagination, it is far cheaper than what we paid to 
initiate the program. And, if we kill the program and decide that we 
need to restart it in a few years, it is far cheaper than we would have 
to pay to resuscitate production.

This is not a boondoggle. We don't have critics saying the program is 
flawed and should be killed. Everyone agrees it is a great aircraft. 
While some of my colleagues obviously support the program because it 
means jobs in their States, others like myself who have no F-22 jobs in 
their States support the program because of its capabilities and their 
concern for the future. Why then has it become an issue over which to 
veto a bill? Why are the stakes so high with this program?

I have the greatest respect for the President and the current 
Secretary of Defense. I have supported both in almost every initiative 
they have advocated. But I see in this case a pattern that I have 
witnessed over and over again.

Time after time our new leaders, both civilian and military, look at 
a program and see all the reasons why it isn't the right one. For 
example, in the early days of the Clinton administration the C-17 
program was nearly terminated because the production of the aircraft 
wasn't performing up to expectations. I recall 2 years prior to that 
the Appropriations Committee recommended a pause in funding for the C-
17, not because we had lost confidence in the program. We still 
believed in the requirement for the aircraft, but the program wasn't 
performing. Up to that point, we had appropriated funds for 16 C-17s in 
total, but not a single one had been delivered, and there were very few 
coming together on the factory floor in Long Beach. We weren't 
recommending cancellation, but it served notice that attention was 
needed. However, the attention that the program received was mostly 
from critics who sought its termination.

When the Clinton administration came into office many of the new 
officials were convinced that the C-17 should be terminated. In that 
instance the Pentagon mandated a study to determine whether the C-17 
was still required. Luckily the conclusion was that yes the plane was 
still needed and those who were calling for its cancellation, including 
some in Congress, would not get their way.

It was only a few years earlier that Secretary Cheney determined that 
the V-22 should be terminated. He was justifiably concerned that the 
price was increasing and that the program was taking longer than 
planned. It took the concerted effort of the Congress to stand up and 
say that we would not allow the program to be terminated. Certainly 
there were those in the Pentagon who agreed with the Secretary, but the 
Marines did not.

I am told that a few years prior to that my good friend Senator 
Rudman weighed in with Chairman Stevens to overrule the Air Force who 
wanted to kill the F-117 after the production of only one squadron of 
aircraft. I should point out that the F-117 was not built in New 
Hampshire. There might have been some modest amount of work associated 
with the plane in his state, but the reason that Senator Rudman 
insisted that we keep buying the F-117 was because of its unique 
capabilities not for any parochial reason.

My colleagues all know the history of the B-2 program. It was started 
as a classified program in 1981. The Air Force was going to build 132 
bombers. We expected it to cost between $20 and $25 billion in total. 
The contractor built a huge state of the art factory out in the high 
desert of California to handle the production of the aircraft. Because 
it was highly classified every precaution had to be taken to protect 
national security all of which dramatically increased the cost to 
produce the aircraft.

Clearly the contractor and Air Force were overly optimistic on the 
cost and schedule of the program. Within 5 years it was clear that the 
program was not going to be completed within $25 billion. As 
development delays occurred, costs continued to escalate. The Air Force 
was unwilling to devote more resources to the program so in a series of 
moves it consistently delayed production of the aircraft and 
transferred dollars appropriated to build the aircraft to be used 
instead to cover higher development costs. By the time I became 
chairman, it was clear that the program would exceed its budget, but it 
was also clear that if it were successful it would provide an unmatched 
capability to this Nation. As costs mounted, the Defense Department 
determined that it would not be able to purchase all 132 aircraft. 
First production was cut to 75 and eventually it dropped to 20. In 1996 
as the program was being killed, the contractor offered to produce 
three per year for several years at a price of about $600 million per 
copy. However, by that time support for the program had eroded so that 
neither the Pentagon nor the Congress would take up the offer. Instead, 
by only buying a total of 21 aircraft, we invested over $2 billion per 
plane making it the most costly aircraft in history.

This situation isn't unique to aircraft programs. In the case of 
shipbuilding, I remember vividly Secretary Cheney's decision to cancel 
the Seawolf submarine. As a result of that decision, the three Seawolf-
class submarines that were eventually built were very expensive. 
Because we only bought three, the average cost of each submarine was 
more than $4 billion. Had we built the 29 originally planned, I can 
only speculate about the cost, but it would certainly have been less 
than the price we are now paying for its replacement. What is even more 
galling is that during that time we were still building the capable 
SSN-688 Los Angeles class submarines and only paying about $800 million 
apiece for them. Instead of reinvigorating that program, we cancelled 
the Seawolf program and proceeded with the New Attack submarine, now 
called the Virginia class, in order to move to a cheaper submarine. 
Regrettably, I have to report that the cost of the Virginia class 
submarine is so high that we have only been able to afford to purchase 
one per year. When I became chairman we were buying four Los Angeles 
class submarines a year and paying only 1/3 the cost of the Virginia 
class. Is the Virginia a better submarine? Surely it is. The 
technological advances that the Nation has developed between the time 
the Los Angeles subs were designed and this decade have allowed for 
substantial improvements. Is it better than the Seawolf? That is 
debatable.

The pattern I have watched during my tenure is a mix of four things.


First, programs are cancelled before or as they reach maturity. Why? 
Sometimes because new leadership wants to go in a new direction more 
often, and important costs increase and schedules are delayed which 
erode the support for the programs. Sometimes programs are cancelled 
because we believe the promised replacement will be more capable or 
cheaper. And sometimes we argue times have changed and we don't need 
them. In a few cases it is clear that the program wasn't performing as 
expected and should be terminated.

For the F-22 some will argue it is too expensive. That was the 
argument against the V-22 program. Some say we simply don't need any 
more. That was the argument used to kill the B-2. Would we like to have 
more B-2s in the inventory today? I, for one, surely would.

Others will say the threat doesn't warrant buying more F-22s. This is 
where I have my gravest concern. Some experts will tell you that we 
know that potential adversaries are working on fifth generation 
fighters. If in 5 years the Chinese unveil a new fifth generation 
fighter and begin to produce it in numbers will we regret the decision 
to kill the F-22, I believe we would.

I am told that no one is likely to be able to develop and build an F-
22 equivalent aircraft for a generation. The skill and funding required 
to do so exceeds any foreign nation's ability. But in my view, they 
might not be able to design an F-22 themselves, but that doesn't mean 
they can't steal the plans.

We were told that the North Koreans were years away from a long range 
missile, then were surprised when they unveiled the Taepo dong. We were 
surprised when Pakistan conducted a nuclear test. We were shocked when 
the Soviet Union collapsed and most Americans were shocked when they 
learned about al-Qaida after 9/11. if there is one thing that shouldn't 
surprise us is that we cannot foretell the future.

So as my colleagues deliberate on the F-22 program I come down on the 
side of caution. I believe it makes more sense at this time to continue 
to produce the program to hedge our bets against the future.

To my knowledge there isn't a single worker in the State of Hawaii 
whose job is dependent of continuing production of the F-22, but I 
believe the program merits continued production.

I believe it is unfortunate that the debate on this matter has taken 
on an overblown proportion. One can make the case that 187 could be 
sufficient. Our Secretary and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs agree that 
is the case. But just like the Marines argued for continuing to produce 
the V-22, the leaders of our Air National Guard and those in charge of 
flying the aircraft argue that we need more--even though the Defense 
Secretary said it should be cancelled.

When some say well, the Air Force leaders say they have enough, I 
will remind my colleagues that the Air Force said the same thing about 
the F-117 after we only produced one squadron.

When some say we should kill this and move on to the Joint Strike 
Fighter, I remember the Seawolf debate. We killed that submarine to 
build a cheaper alternative. Will we do the same thing here and be 
disappointed in the cost of the so-called alternative?

On February 2, 1989, I was selected as the chairman of the 
Subcommittee on Defense of the Appropriations Committee. For the past 
20 years, it has been my distinct honor to serve either as the chairman 
of the ranking member of this subcommittee. As my colleagues all know, 
the defense subcommittee has the largest budget of any of our 
Appropriations subcommittees, and to many of us it is probably the most 
important of our subcommittees. It has required a great deal of my time 
and attention over the past 20 years. For me it has been a labor of 
love. I have the greatest respect for the men and women of this Nation 
who are willing to serve and who guarantee constitutional freedoms for 
the rest of us. It has been my priority to support their cause during 
this period.

As I consider the F-22, I do so with the past twenty years as my 
guide. In my opinion what I have learned has taught me to be cautious 
as we kill programs. Therefore today I will cast my vote to continue 
the F-22 program.