---
---

# None
## `19885a4c3a3b61b6b852f980259fde33`
`Mr. CARPER — 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, we have just concluded a 2-week recess. We 
have come back to the Capitol, rested and prepared to get to work on 
the Nation's business. At the top of the list for most people, at least 
based on what I heard in my State and likely what Senators have heard 
from coast to coast, is the desire for us to get to work on the 
economy. There are other concerns--the war in Iraq, the cost of health 
care, the list goes on--but at the top of the list is the economy, 
harking back to the Clinton campaign in 1992: ''It is the economy, 
stupid.'' It has been for a long time, and it certainly is again today.

During the time I spent in Delaware, I visited a lot of places, 
including a number of schools. One of the questions a group of young 
people asked me was, what did I like most about my job. There are a 
number of things I enjoy about serving in the Senate. I love helping 
people. We have the opportunity to do that through constituent services 
and other ways every day. That is a source of great satisfaction. I 
know it is to the Presiding Officer and others of our colleagues. Among 
the other things that bring me great joy is from time to time we are 
able to take folks who have different views on a particular issue and 
actually pull them together to work as one, to develop consensus around 
issues.

We need to develop a consensus on a path forward with respect to the 
housing situation, the meltdown we have seen, especially with subprime 
mortgages and the threat that meltdown poses to binding together, 
tightening up and bringing to a halt the flow of money through our 
economy, through the banking system.

I am encouraged by the vote we just had where 94 Senators voted to 
proceed to the housing bill. Our Democratic leadership has pulled back 
and said: We will not try to push forward with five or six actually 
very constructive elements in an earlier version of our proposal but 
provide time for Senator Dodd and Senator Shelby to work with others on 
the Banking Committee and other colleagues who are not on the committee 
to put together a broader consensus that builds on the package we voted 
not to proceed to 2 weeks ago. We can do those but more as well.

Let me express my hope that the elements of the package Senators Dodd 
and Shelby bring back to us include the ability for housing authorities 
to issue revenue bonds, the proceeds of which could be used to help 
folks refinance their mortgages, people in danger of losing their 
homes. I am not interested in rewarding bad behavior, in rewarding 
investors or bankers who made bad decisions or, frankly, individual 
borrowers who made decisions that were inappropriate or wrong, where 
they misrepresented their financial standing. I don't think we want to 
reward bad behavior. But there are a lot of people in danger. We have 
some 8,000 people who will have their homes foreclosed on today, 
tomorrow, the next day, and the next. That is a clear signal to me we 
need to do something.

We can do some things that will make a difference without breaking 
the Treasury. Let me mention a couple elements of what I hope will be 
in the housing package that we might bring back to the floor. One of 
those is FHA modernization. Some people recall 75 years ago the Federal 
Housing Administration was established.

People wonder where the 30-year fixed rate mortgage came from. It 
came from FHA. A lot of people own a home today because their loan was 
guaranteed by the FHA. My first home loan was guaranteed by the VA for 
the house I bought when I came back from Southeast Asia at the end of 
the Vietnam war. Not even 10 years ago, but 5, 10 years ago, almost 20 
percent of the people in this country got a mortgage that was 
guaranteed by the FHA. As recently as last year, that number is down to 
5 percent. The FHA oftentimes has helped to insure mortgages of people 
who have a questionable credit rating, people who were maybe a first-
time home buyer for whom a lot of banks were reluctant to provide a 
mortgage without the guarantee that maybe an FHA or a VA would offer. 
But FHA-guaranteed mortgages dropped from almost 20 percent of all 
mortgages a half dozen or more years ago, down to about 5 percent 
today.

The drop between 20 percent or whatever it is down to 5 percent 
reflects the number of people who used to go to FHA for help, who today 
or in recent months and years have instead taken advantage of these 
adjustable rate mortgages that have low teaser introductory rates that 
reset after a couple years, that have a clause in them that makes it 
difficult, if not impossible, or at least very expensive, to refinance 
the mortgage. Those people are stuck.


There are a couple of million of them who have been stuck with 
adjustable rate mortgages, high teaser rates that are going up, and 
finding it difficult to get out of that situation. For those folks who 
have been in that situation, maybe people with somewhat marginal 
credit, people who are first-time home buyers, I don't want them to 
look for adjustable rate mortgages for salvation. I want them to see 
the FHA as relevant in their lives.

What we need to do is bring the FHA into the 21st century to make it 
relevant to today's borrowers' needs.

Senators Dodd and Shelby have been working with Representatives Frank 
and Baucus on legislation we passed in the Senate. The House has passed 
FHA modernization legislation. I think they are close to consensus. My 
hope is we can find consensus. And when we take up later this week, 
hopefully, a bipartisan housing recovery bill, a centerpiece of that 
will be FHA modernization. We ought to do that. It is something we all 
agree on, Democrats and Republicans, the President, and, frankly, a lot 
of people around the country, borrowers and lenders too.

The second piece that ought to be in this package will be the 
authorization that we would provide for housing authorities throughout 
the country to issue mortgage revenue bonds, tax exempt revenue bonds, 
the proceeds of which could be not only used for first-time home 
buyers, not just for multifamily housing, affordable housing, but also 
could be used to provide moneys to help people refinance their 
mortgage, people in some jeopardy. The administration supports that 
idea. Secretary Paulson testified before our committee in favor of that 
idea. It is part of the Democratic package that we sought to bring to 
the floor 2 weeks ago. It ought to be part of the consensus package 
that we will take up later this week.

There are any number of other good ideas that hopefully will be part 
of the package. Senator Jack Reed from Rhode Island has a very good 
idea that seems to be acceptable on a lot of fronts, to provide for 
greater transparency for borrowers as people go to the credit markets 
to look for mortgages, to make sure they know what they are getting and 
get a good deal, a fair deal.

Senator Martinez and Senator Feinstein have a proposal. I believe it 
is one that deals with the appraisals, to make sure the appraisals that 
back up the homes that are being bought or sold are actually real and 
not just an appraisal put together, pulled out of thin air because 
somebody drove by a house and slapped a value on it by looking at it 
through a windshield.

I think Senator Martinez has another good idea with respect to 
licensing mortgage brokers. It may not be perfect and is something that 
can be worked on further, but something along those lines should be 
part of this package.

Senator Isakson has an idea and is actually something I think was 
done maybe when President Ford was President. Senator Isakson's idea is 
if you have a home--let's say all 100 desks in the Senate Chamber are 
all homes. There is one for each Senator. Maybe this home right here is 
in foreclosure, and it is blighting the value of this home and that 
home and those homes all around it. The folks in this neighborhood 
would love to have somebody come and live in this home, somebody who is 
going to take care of that property and maintain that property but also 
help to maintain the value of the other properties.

What Senator Isakson does is provide a tax credit--I think he is 
saying $5,000 per year--for somebody who comes in and not just buys 
that home but lives in that home as the owner and the occupier. To the 
extent they do that, they get a $5,000 tax credit. He suggested we do 
that over 3 years, which would mean $15,000 for 3 years. That could be 
pretty expensive. I have suggested to him we try to find a way to bring 
down the cost of his proposal. My hope is we can do that and include 
that in the final bill we come up with.

Another idea that has merit is to increase somewhat the appropriation 
for community development block grants and to say to State and local 
governments they can use some of the proceeds from this money to take a 
home that is in foreclosure and do something to prepare it to be sold 
and to restore the value of that home and to restore the vitality of 
the neighborhood in which it is now decaying.

In short, there is no shortage of good ideas. Some of them are 
authored by Democrats and offered by Democrats, and in some cases they 
are authored and offered by our Republican colleagues. In some cases 
they are ideas that enjoy bipartisan support. At the end of the day, 
together they fashion a pretty good package that will help make a real 
difference, and a difference in not a couple years but literally in a 
couple of months.

The last thing I would say is, one of the more controversial 
provisions in the package that came to us actually last month from our 
Democratic leaders is a provision dealing with bankruptcy and would 
extend to bankruptcy judges the ability to go in and not only adjust 
interest rates on mortgages for homes that are in foreclosure or about 
to go into foreclosure but also to adjust the amount of the mortgage 
itself.

That has caused a lot of concern about the chilling effect it may 
have on interest rates for primary homes in the future. I give Senator 
Durbin credit. He has tried to amend his earlier proposal to address 
the concerns--the legitimate concerns--that have been raised. I think 
he has acted in good faith. I know Senator Specter has a little 
different proposal on this approach. I think Senator Dodd has been 
working along with Representative Frank over in the House on kind of a 
variation of an earlier idea suggested, I think, by the head of the 
Office of Thrift Supervision--the folks who supervise the savings and 
loan industry--to try to make sure we address the issue of a homeowner 
whose home is not in foreclosure but whose mortgage is underwater.

I will give you an example. You have a home that has been bought for 
$200,000. Today the home is worth $160,000, and the person who owns the 
home is thinking about literally walking away from their mortgage, 
walking away from their home. You can do that today for about $1,000, I 
am told, working through a company that will help you walk away from 
your home mortgage. The person who walks away becomes a renter, and the 
obligation they have to continue to have to pay the mortgage goes away. 
You end up with a home that is in foreclosure. The banks do not want to 
be stuck with those properties. The folks in the neighborhood of the 
home being foreclosed on do not want that to happen in their 
neighborhood.

I think Senator Dodd and Representative Frank have a very 
constructive idea--not a perfect idea but a good idea--that can go 
forth. It requires some sacrifice on the part of the lenders. It 
requires some sacrifice and give on the part of the borrowers. But it 
also leaves them a home in the end, at least, where they still have a 
little bit of equity and a good reason not to walk away from their 
home, triggering a foreclosure.


The last thing I will mention--this is an idea that is not new, but 
we have been hearing testimony about this for a couple years--we have 
three major Government-sponsored enterprises, not counting Ginne Mae, 
but three major Government-sponsored enterprises whose job it is to 
help raise money and to provide liquidity and safety for the housing 
market in this country. One is Fannie Mae, another is Freddie Mac, and 
the third is a little bit different kind of an animal called Federal 
home loan banks. There are about 12 of those throughout our country.

The way we buy homes has changed a whole lot over the years. When I 
bought my first home in Delaware, I went to a bank. They agreed to make 
the mortgage. I borrowed the money. I think it was about $40,000. They 
borrowed the money and they held my mortgage. They held my mortgage, 
and every month they would send me a statement, and I would send them a 
check to make my payment. They held the mortgage for years and years 
and years.

It does not work that way anymore. Today you go to your local thrift 
or bank, and they make a mortgage to help a person buy a home, and the 
bank may decide to hold the mortgage. They may decide to service the 
mortgage. But in most cases, they don't. In a lot of cases they turn 
around and they sell the mortgage to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac are huge financial institutions. They package these 
home mortgages together


from all kinds of financial institutions that originally made the 
mortgages from across the country, and they put them together into 
investments called mortgage-backed securities, and those mortgage-
backed securities are sold to investors all over this country and all 
over the world.

The problem with the mortgage-backed securities is when you have a 
drop in home values, you have a problem with homeowners, borrowers not 
making their mortgage payments. When you have a problem with the 
underlying homes that make up these mortgage-backed securities going 
into foreclosure and mortgage payments not being collected, the value 
of those mortgage-backed securities drops. The companies, the investors 
who are holding those mortgage-backed securities are getting into 
trouble, and we have a situation where liquidity in our banking system 
begins to dry up.

When the liquidity in the banking system dries up, two things can 
help start a recession. One of those is that when people think we are 
going into a recession, it can be a self-fulfilling prophecy because 
people stop spending money. They stop spending money and, lo and 
behold, we have a recession. Another way we have recessions is that the 
banking system stops working. They stop making loans. Liquidity is sort 
of like the blood in our veins. The liquidity goes away in our 
financial systems and our economy. That is part of what we face today.

The two entities that do the most in terms of trying to make sure we 
continue to have liquidity in our banking system are Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac when they buy these mortgages from banks that have made 
mortgages to individual borrowers. Then they package these mortgages. 
Sometimes they sell them around the world. Sometimes they hold those 
mortgage-backed securities in their own portfolio. In some cases, the 
folks at Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, I guess, actually hold individual 
mortgages for a while. They do some of that as well.

The problem with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is, they have run into 
trouble in the last couple years because they do not have a very strong 
regulator. They do not have a strong, independent regulator. We have 
held many hearings for a couple years trying to figure out how we 
provide a strong, independent regulator and at the same time make sure 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac do not repeat the sins and mistakes of their 
past few years. How do we do that in a way and at the same time create 
an affordable housing fund much as we have with the Federal home loan 
banks?

My hope is--if not in this package that is, hopefully, going to 
emerge from these discussions in the next day or two--in the next week 
or two, maybe month or so, the Banking Committee can move together and 
report out a consensus package on regulatory reform to provide a 
strong, independent regulator for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the 
Federal home loan banks. That would be another good thing for our 
country and for those of us who want to buy homes and sell homes.

Let me close with this: Going back to the beginning of the year, as 
our economy started to slip into what may be a recession--and we will 
find out in another quarter or so if it really has been a recession--as 
we began to slip, the Federal Reserve, actually starting last fall, 
began to use its monetary powers, first of all, to lower the Federal 
funds rate--the rate at which banks charge one another for lending 
money between themselves at the end of every day--they started lowering 
the Federal funds rate rather dramatically--in fact, more dramatically 
than I have ever seen in my life.


The Federal Reserve has made it possible to encourage more banks, 
more financial institutions, regular financial institutions, and even 
investment banks to come to the discount window to borrow money to meet 
their problems. The Federal Reserve has gone so far as to even help 
make possible for JPMorgan Chase to come in and take over Bear Stearns 
so it would not collapse into bankruptcy and trigger maybe an even 
worse situation.

While the shareholders of Bear Stearns have taken a shellacking--I 
think they ended up getting about $2 per share for their stock; Bear 
Stearns' stock had been valued at over $100 not long ago--the 
shareholders took a loss, but at least it did not cause sort of a 
domino effect in a failure of our financial system. The Federal Reserve 
has been involved in that.

The Federal Reserve has been willing to take from financial 
institutions their mortgage-backed securities and replace them with 
Treasury securities to put some liquidity back into the banking system. 
The Federal Reserve has been terrific. It has been very helpful in 
terms of putting liquidity back into the system but also raising the 
confidence of consumers, the confidence of our constituents, and us 
too. So that is one that has happened.

The second thing we have done, Congress and the President working 
together, is we have agreed, about 2 months ago, upon a stimulus 
package. Is the stimulus package one I would have written or maybe the 
Presiding Officer would have written? Probably not. But on balance, it 
does more good than bad, and we expect to see a boost in our gross 
domestic product in the second half of this year of maybe 1, 1.5 
percentage points. That is going to be a nice lift to the economy as we 
struggle to either shorten a recession or to abridge one altogether.

The third piece that is still waiting to be done--after the Federal 
Reserve has acted in the variety of ways I just described--after the 
effect of this stimulus package begins to kick in, the third thing that 
needs to be done is we need to take up and develop and pass and send to 
the President a consensus housing recovery package.

The elements I have described already enjoy support, in most cases, 
from Democrats and Republicans, including the administration. A lot of 
the ideas have merit. My hope is we will have, in the next day or two, 
the opportunity to debate those individual proposals. For folks who 
want to amend them, in some cases strike them, in other cases to add 
new provisions, terrific. That is the way this system is supposed to 
work. That is the way this place is supposed to work.

My hope is in a very short while we will be gathered on this floor 
offering amendments to the package that Senator Dodd and Senator Shelby 
and our staffs are going to be working on to get things going, to get 
things done. The people of my State did not send me here to just talk 
about our problems. They sent me here to do something about them. We 
have a great opportunity to take the next step, I say the third in a 
trilogy of steps, that will help get our economy out of a ditch and 
hopefully head in the right direction.

The best thing that can happen is we can demonstrate to people in 
this country that Democrats and Republicans, in an election year, can 
set aside our political differences and figure out the right thing to 
do to help stabilize the housing situation and put us on the road to 
recovery. That is going to lift the spirits of a lot of people and give 
our friends in the media a different kind of story to report--not the 
story they report day after day after day, a drumbeat of all the things 
going wrong in this county, but to start reporting some things that are 
going right in this country. As those more positive, uplifting, 
inspirational stories begin to appear, recessions have a way of turning 
into recoveries. That is exactly what we need right about now.

Mr. President, with that, I do not see anyone else waiting to speak 
on the floor, so I suggest the absence of a quorum.