---
---

# None
## `19a2901488112990b8864976e33be636`
`Mr. INOUYE — 29 September 2009`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, earlier, the Senator from Arizona raised 
concerns that the Committee on Appropriations had reduced funding in 
the operation and maintenance accounts. As I noted in my opening 
statement, this committee of ours reviews the entire budget and adjusts 
funds based on that review. That review came out with various results, 
and I would like to discuss some of them with you.

Before I do the analysis, I would just point out to my colleagues the 
budget that we are considering at this moment was formulated about a 
year ago--a year ago. That is when the process began. I am certain all 
of us will agree that since that time much has changed. Therefore, the 
committee believed we owe it to the Senate to apply the funds we 
recommended where they are most needed at this moment, not where they 
were needed a year ago.

For example, the reductions to operations and maintenance programs we 
recommended are based on a lack of justification or of changed 
requirements. The funds are not reduced because of a need to transfer 
funding to other appropriations.

The Senator from Arizona suggested we are taking out certain funding 
to pay for earmarks. The O&M accounts--operation and maintenance 
accounts--were reduced in this fiscal year 2010 base budget for many 
reasons, and just let me explain a few.

Five hundred million dollars, or half a billion dollars, was not a 
cut as suggested by the Senator from Arizona, but it was, rather, a 
transfer from the base budget request to the overseas contingency 
operations budget because the resources for certain programs were more 
appropriately funded for the Iraq and Afghanistan war. This is what 
they suggested.

One hundred million dollars was reduced based on administrative 
savings proposals. In April of this year the Office of Management and 
Budget was directed by the President to work with agencies to identify 
cuts to their administrative budgets separate and apart from those 
identified by the fiscal year 2010 budget--beyond that.



The DOD savings identified by the administration was $100 million in 
fiscal year 2010, and we allocated these funds to other worthy 
projects.

Finally, $100 million was cut from the Security and Stabilization 
Program because that was not authorized by the Senate Armed Services 
Committee.

Mr. President, we do this type of review every year. Every year 
someone complains their programs are cut, but we stand by our 
recommendations. We do more to enhance the readiness of the forces in 
this bill than was requested. Keep in mind since this budget was 
drafted, we have requested and added 30,000 more troops. We do so by 
providing equipment to our National Guard and Reserves. Everyone 
supports the National Guard, but we give them secondhand tools. It is 
about time they got some good ones. We do so by applying resources to 
buy MRAPs to protect our troops. And, yes, we do so to buy more C-17s 
to carry our forces wherever our leaders send them.

I thank the Chair.