---
---

# TAX POLICY
## `19b1c1710ab3a1bbd5706fefd742912e`
`Mr. DORGAN — 4 December 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. I thank the Chair.

I was surprised to hear the minority leader suggest that today's 
session of the Senate--a Saturday session, which I suppose is 
inconvenient but nonetheless something we ought to do to work on things 
that are important for the American people--I was surprised to hear him 
say it was a waste of the taxpayers' money. I will talk a little bit 
about what I think is a waste of the taxpayers' money, but coming here, 
doing the business, trying to reduce the Federal deficit, trying to 
make important decisions about tax issues, is not a waste of time or 
money, in my judgment.

One of the things I find disheartening these days in the political 
debate about these issues is the increasing tendency for one side of a 
political debate to create their new set of realities. They just invent 
a new set of realities. Then, from that invention, they go ahead and 
make their arguments.

By the way, most of the reporting then is off of that invention. It 
would be nice if the reporting would say that is not a reality, that is 
an invention. If, for example, we said the Earth is round and there is 
substantial scientific evidence that the Earth is round, and the other 
side said, no, the Earth is flat, tomorrow there would be a story that 
said opinions differ on the shape of Earth. Of course, the facts do not 
differ, but that is the way these things exist these days--the creation 
of their own new reality.

Let me talk about what has happened with respect to the tax cuts, and 
let me give just a bit of history because I think it is important.

In 2001, taxes were cut. I did not vote for it. I voted against it. 
Let me tell you why. I don't want to revisit that at great length, but 
the proposal to cut taxes in 2001 came on the heels of the year 2000 
when, for the first time in 30 years, this country had a budget 
surplus--a budget surplus, mind you. The economists and others expected 
and projected that the surpluses would exist way into the future. For 
the next 10 years, we would have budget surpluses, they predicted.

I did not believe that, but nonetheless President George W. Bush, new 
to the office, said: Well, if we are going to have budget surpluses 
going forward, let's make sure we give them back to the American people 
in the form of tax cuts.

I said: Why don't we be a bit conservative? What if we don't have 
these surpluses? They are only projections, after all. We don't have 
them; they are just projections by economists who, in many cases, can't 
remember their home phone number for 2 days but give us projections for 
5 and 10 years. Let's be a little conservative.

No, they said, we don't want to be conservative. Let's do these tax 
cuts, the bulk of which go to the wealthiest because those who 
construct these tax cuts always believe there is a trickle-


down effect in this country, so if you give money at the top, it will 
trickle down and help everybody.

Immediately we discovered we were in a recession. Then we were hit 
with a terrorist attack on 9/11. Then we were in a war in Afghanistan, 
then a war in Iraq, and those wars have lasted for most of a decade. 
Not only were there no surpluses at all, no budget surpluses at all, in 
fact, there were giant budget deficits. None of the expenditures of 
these wars were paid for, all of it was added to the debt, and the debt 
has now ballooned to $13 trillion, with a yearly budget deficit of $1.3 
trillion, having now just gotten to the other side, the other plateau 
on the deepest recession since the Great Depression.

So here is where we find ourselves. That is the history of it--tax 
cuts that were voted for by the Congress, proposed by George W. Bush, 
then President Bush, in order to give back surpluses for the next 10 
years. No surpluses ever existed. Then we went to war and never paid 
for a penny of the war. Now we end up with a deficit of $1.3 trillion a 
year and a Federal budget debt of $13 trillion. The question is, What 
do we do about all that? Clearly these deficits and debt threaten the 
country, they threaten our financial stability and solvency. I worry 
very much that 1 day the bond traders and the currency traders might 
get an urge to say: You know what, we don't think that economy is very 
stable, and we are going to make a run on that economy--as they have 
done. Nothing has changed in Spain from now versus 6 months ago. Yet 
once they run against that economy, there are profound consequences and 
could be for this country as well. I worry a great deal about that. We 
have to get our house in order.

Let me talk about the debate this morning because I think most people 
do not understand what the debate is. It is not reported very well and 
not even described very well here.

The proposition is to extend the tax cuts. So the question is, For 
whom? One proposal we voted on this morning was for single people 
earning up to $200,000 and married couples earning $250,000. But what 
is important to understand is that the proposal to extend the tax cuts 
extends to income earned by everybody. The first $250,000 earned by 
Bill Gates and Warren Buffett and Donald Trump--they would get a tax 
cut on their first $250,000 of income. A lot of people don't understand 
that. They think the proposal is, if you have over $250,000 of income, 
you don't get a tax cut. That is not true.