---
---

# AMERICA'S FINANCIAL CRISIS
## `19b95ed58269fbb65196150daa8a8761`
`Mr. AKIN — 4 February 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Chairman, it is a pleasure to be able to join with some 
of my colleagues here tonight. And we're going to be talking about a 
subject that is, I believe, near and dear to many people's hearts, or 
at least of concern to many people. And I suppose one way to introduce 
this subject would be to take a look at something that has been in the 
news now for 6 and 7 years, and that would be the subject of how much 
money we have spent in the war in Iraq.

Many people were observing that we were spending way too much money, 
that the budget was out of balance and we are just wasting money over 
in Iraq and in Afghanistan. And yet ironically, in the very first month 
of this new administration and this new Congress, we spent more money 
in that first month than what we spent in 2 years in the two different 
wars for 6 and 7 years added together. If you add all of the money 
spent in Iraq, all of the money spent in Afghanistan and add it all 
together, it is less than what we spent in the first couple of months 
of Congress this year.

Now, how do we get to that point? What brought this about? If you 
want to try to take a look at how much money does that mean, that says 
that we spent in the first month more money than the entire tax revenue 
that we're planning to collect for the year 2008. It would be as if you 
had your own family budget, and in January you spent all of your income 
for the year. You have got 11 very lean months to take a look at.

So how is it that we got to this point? That is what we are going to 
be talking about. We're going to have a nice kind of roundtable 
discussion with many people from different States. And so I want to 
back up just a little bit and take a look at how did we get to this 
point that we have the economy in the condition that it's in?

Well, the story goes back quite a ways. It goes back to the Carter 
years. People found that as people were trying to get mortgages, 
particularly in certain areas of economically disadvantaged areas in 
various cities, that it was hard for them to get home loans. And so 
they put together the Community Reinvestment Act. And in a sense, what 
it was saying to banks is, you have got to take a few of your loans and 
loan them to people who it's not clear that they will be able to pay it 
back, because somehow or another people everywhere need to have a 
chance to buy a home and to own a home.

Well, that idea was then followed up with the creation of a couple of 
quasi-governmental but also quasi-private organizations that were 
little known at the time called Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. And those 
organizations were in the same business of trying to help people that 
were sort of middle-income buyers or lower-income buyers to be able to 
buy a house. And so they helped to write loans and underwrite loans. 
The theory was, at least implicit, that the government IOU was behind 
the things that Freddie and Fannie took care of.

Then as we moved along further, we moved up to the Clinton era. 
Toward the end of Clinton's days, what he did was increased the 
percentage of the loans that Freddie and Fannie had to make and 
increased the percentage of them that were very risky loans. In other 
words, essentially what he was saying was that the government is 
forcing Freddie and Fannie to make loans and that we know an awful lot 
of them are not going to be paid. And of course when you start to 
mandate that quasi-governmental groups are going to make bad loans, 
then pretty soon you're going to have trouble.

Well, this coincided then, as we move along a couple further years, 
to the era when Alan Greenspan drops the interest rates extremely low 
because the economy is tanking. In 2000, Greenspan started dropping the 
interest rates. And then you create this idea of, well, hey, if we have 
got all of this money at tremendously low interest rates, where are you 
going to park it? Well, let's park it in real estate because real 
estate always goes up. You can't make a mistake in real estate.



In my first early days here at Congress, boy, did I feel stupid that 
I hadn't bought a great big multimillion-dollar house, because if I 
could have just afforded the interest payments on it for 4 years, it 
would have doubled in value between 2000 and 2004 or 2005. Of course, I 
would have to have been smart enough to buy it in 2000 and smart enough 
to sell it by 2005.

Well, as everybody knows, that old bubble popped. And increasingly 
all of these loans that were being made started in the process of 
defaulting. And it was not just people in economically disadvantaged 
areas that were making these loans. No. Wall Street got into the deal. 
And so did the speculators. And so what started to happen was you had 
people going out there and selling all of these loans. The local banks 
went through the Community Reinvestment Act and would make the loans. 
But as soon as they made the loan, they turned it right on over to 
Fannie and Freddie, assuming that if anything goes wrong, the Federal 
Government is going to bail them out.

Then you get to the point where people are running around who are 
mortgage brokers. And they don't care what kind of job you have. If you 
want to borrow a half a million bucks, fine, because they simply write 
the loan, make the commission on the loan, and the loan is passed on 
largely to Freddie and Fannie.

In the meantime, Wall Street was taking all of these loans, packaging 
them together and slicing and dicing them and selling them all over the 
world and making a great deal of money in the process as the housing 
bubble was going up and up. Everything looked pretty good.

And then you had the rating agencies, such as Standard & Poor's or 
the other one would be Moody's. They were all giving these things 
Triple A ratings. This is good stuff. Everybody around the world, buy 
all of these loans that are made to people who we know really don't 
have the ability to pay these loans.

And so now you get this situation where you're spiraling upward and 
upward. The bubble is about to pop. Did anybody see it coming? Well, 
the answer is, yes, as a matter of fact they did. President Bush saw it 
coming. He saw it coming in 2003. And he approached the legislature. He 
said, I have got to have the legislative authority to rein Freddie and 
Fannie in because these guys are going crazy making these loans, and 
it's going to mess the whole economy up.

And so Congress, while we were in the majority in 2004, we passed a 
bill that allowed the President to have the authority to regulate 
Freddie and Fannie to stop this runaway train. It went to the Senate, 
and it was killed by the Democrats.

Now let's take a look at what appeared in the New York Times, not 
exactly a right-wing oracle, about that very time, September 11, 2003. 
And this is part of the quote, September 11, 2003, New York Times, 
''These two entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, are not facing any 
kind of financial crisis.'' Who would say that? Representative Barney 
Frank of Massachusetts, the ranking Democrat on the Financial Services 
Committee. ''The more people exaggerate these problems, the more 
pressure there is on these companies, the less we will see in terms of 
affordable housing.''