---
---

# TRIBUTE TO STAFF SERGEANT DENNIS J. HANSEN
## `19e0b06b8ec63bb6968bc754360ce1da`
`Mr. JORDAN of Ohio — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. JORDAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of 
one of America's fallen heroes, Army Staff Sergeant Dennis J. Hansen of 
Scottsville, New York, and formerly of Indian Lake, Ohio.

Born in Salt Lake City, Staff Sergeant Hansen was stationed at Fort 
Drum, New York, and assigned to the 1st Battalion, 32nd Infantry 
Regiment, 10th Mountain Division. He spent more than 8 years in the 
Marine Corps before joining the Army.

During his military career, Dennis served deployments in Africa, 
Kosovo, Japan, Panama, Cuba, Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Mediterranean.

He died on December 7, 2009, as a result of injuries sustained while 
serving his country in Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom. Dennis, age 31, is survived by his loving family, including 
his wife, Jennifer; their children; and his parents, Dwight and Bonnie.

In reading of Dennis's life and speaking with his family members, it 
was clear he had a positive impact on the lives of everyone around him. 
He was a leader, a family man, an accomplished wrestler in his youth, 
and a champion in every sense of the word. He bravely stood up and 
volunteered to serve. He gave his life in defense of his family, his 
community, his State, and his Nation. For this we owe him and his 
family a great debt of gratitude.

Dennis will be missed each and every day. But the strength of his 
character and the courage he demonstrated through his service will live 
on.
