---
---

# HONORING STAFF SGT. AARON M. KENEFICK
## `19e217e765d718cf3764d450555d6324`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia — 10 August 2010`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise in honor of Staff 
Sergeant Aaron M. Kenefick who gave his life September 8, 2009, while 
supporting combat operations in the Kunar province of Afghanistan.

A few years ago on Thanksgiving, Aaron had asked his mom what time 
dinner would be served. He wanted to make sure he would have time to 
visit his fellow service members at the Veterans Administration 
hospital. ''That's where the true heroes are,'' he had told his mother. 
Sergeant Kenefick did not brag about his own achievements and numerous 
missions. He had received a Purple Heart after being injured by 
shrapnel and had twice, during his 12-year career, been named Marine of 
the Year. Nevertheless, called to serve, Kenefick returned to combat.

Staff Sgt. Kenefick graduated from Roswell High School in 1997 after 
moving there as a 10th grader from Williamsville, New York. He joined 
the Marine Corps after high school. He is survived by his mother, Susan 
Price and father, Donnie Kenefick; two sisters; and his young daughter, 
Landon.

Madam Speaker, it is with the greatest respect and admiration that we 
honor Staff Sgt. Kenefick's sacrifice on behalf of our Nation. He is a 
hero to his countrymen, his family, and his fellow Marines. He reminds 
us that America is blessed to have so many young men and women willing 
to stand up and fight to preserve our precious freedoms. Our thoughts 
and prayers are with his family and all our military families, whose 
selfless dedication to this Nation is an inspiration to us all.
