---
---

# THE NEW DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS
## `19e483b5fbe5adfc9e56f058cbc76f36`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Minnesota for 
yielding. And I want to join many of us in expressing my great empathy 
for him and the residents of his State who have gone through so much 
recently. And we all, I think, not only empathize but sympathize with 
what the people of Minnesota have had to go through, and I know we all 
stand ready to help in any way that we can.

But my colleague is right, Mr. Speaker. When we all came to this body 
last year right after being elected and we all met for our orientation 
and, as freshmen, we met for the first time and started comparing 
notes, it was clear that we all came with pretty similar mandates. 
We were sent by our people to change what was going on in this country. 
We were sent by the people of this country to deal with energy 
problems. We were sent by the people of this country to deal with a 
dysfunctional health care system. We were sent by the people of this 
country to deal with the income and wealth inequality that has put such 
a strain on the great working families of this country and has seen the 
wealthiest people in America have their wealth increased by leaps and 
bounds while, as the census report just mentioned last week, 95 percent 
of the people in this country have not seen their standard of living 
improve over the last 6 years.


We were sent by the people of this country to do something about the 
education system, to make sure it not only leaves no child behind but 
moves every child forward; that we work with the most gifted kids and 
we work with the kids posing the greatest challenge; that each one of 
them will have the best that our teachers have to offer and have the 
greatest support system that we can provide for them.

And foremost of all these things, the people of America sent us to 
Congress with one overriding thought, and that was to change direction 
in Iraq.

And it is very interesting because I know that the people on the 
other side, our colleagues in the Republican Party, want to try to spin 
our activities by saying, well, we haven't really accomplished very 
much. Well, I think every one of us knows how hard we have worked over 
the last 8 months to accomplish the mission that the people of the 
United States sent us here for.

We have dealt with minimum wage, increasing the minimum wage for the 
first time in 10 years. We have dealt with the energy situation. We 
tried to eliminate the great and unnecessary tax cuts that were given 
to the oil companies when they were making record profits. We dealt 
with health care, not just recently by trying to expand the Children's 
Health Insurance Program to cover 5 million more American children, but 
also in trying to save money and make the system more efficient by 
forcing the pharmaceutical companies to negotiate with Medicare in the 
Medicare part D program.

In every area of our jurisdiction, we have tried to respond to the 
demands of the American people. We have listened to them. We are 
dealing right now with the revision of No Child Left Behind. The 
changes we are making in that program stem directly from what we have 
heard from the American people. We are listening. We are acting. We are 
moving.

And so it is with not only a great deal of personal disgust but also 
with a sense of outrage that I listened to President Bush make a 
statement when he was halfway around the world in comparing this 
Congress, this body, with the Parliament in Iraq. And I know he likes 
to be cute and that is the way he is, but for him to stand halfway 
across the world before international cameras and international media 
and tout the fact that the Iraqi Parliament has passed 60 bills when, 
according to him, we haven't passed that many in this session of 
Congress to me is an outrage. It's not even factually correct. We have 
sent him 57 bills; he signed 55. We have passed several hundred bills 
in this House.

But the most important thing is look at what he has done. Look at the 
vetoes he has threatened, the vetoes he has actually made. He has 
already threatened to veto 10 out of 12 appropriations bills we passed 
in this body. After the committees in this body, both parties working 
hand in hand, have dealt with these issues and the budgeting for months 
and months and months, he says arbitrarily, they weren't my budgets, it 
wasn't what I asked for and, therefore, I'm going to veto them.

For him to criticize the United States Congress for not passing 
legislation is like the Vice President criticizing his lawyer friend 
for getting in the way when he shot him. I mean, if anyone is more 
responsible for retarding and obstructing the work of this body, it is 
the President of the United States and his party. And it happens day 
after day. It happens hour after hour. And the only reason it happens 
is because the Republican Party and the President of the United States 
have run out of initiatives. They have run out of ideas. They know the 
American people have rejected their agenda, and they are looking for a 
new direction, and they just simply don't want to see us succeed.

But that's not what we're here for. We're here to continue working. 
We're going to generate the type of grassroots support for what we've 
done. We know it's out there. We're listening to the people. They will 
be listening to what we're doing, and they will force this Republican 
Party and this President to move in our direction.

I am convinced that we are doing the right thing, that we are 
working, we are making progress for the American people. We will 
continue to do that under the great leadership we have in Speaker 
Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer. And I know eventually the Republican 
Party will come to their senses and they will begin to realize that the 
American people want us to act to solve the very demanding, the very 
challenging problems that face


this country. We are about that task. That's why we came here. That's 
what we will continue to do as long as we are here.