# EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `19e84a2f2b6e91ab51183ff477b63d2f`
`Ms. LEE — 29 September 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Let me thank Chairman Frank for your efforts to improve this 
administration's $700 billion blank check bill.

Madam Speaker, as a former member of the House Financial Services 
Committee for 8 years, I can tell you that the situation that we find 
ourselves in today is the direct result of the deregulation-happy, 
turn-a-blind-eye approach of this administration and its allies in 
Congress.

Now we see the horrific price of these reckless deregulation 
policies. More than 600,000 Americans have lost their jobs since 
January. People need jobs to obtain credit, to pay their rent, to pay 
their house notes, to buy a 401(k) or to really have a retirement 
account. Millions of people are living paycheck to paycheck if they 
really have a paycheck. Home foreclosures are skyrocketing; home values 
are plunging; banks are failing, and we are still spending more than 
$10 billion every month on a war in Iraq that did not have to be waged.

So I'm convinced that this bailout is not the solution to this mess. 
It does little to address the underlying problem--the foreclosure 
crisis. We need a moratorium on foreclosures, and we need bankruptcy 
reform to help people stay in their homes. This bill should be paid for 
by the high-flying industry that created this problem. $700 billion 
should not be given to Wall Street and to the Bush administration 
unless those who caused this mess pay for it.

As my bill indicates, the Income Equity Act, we should also prohibit 
the tax deductibility of executive compensation in any company where 
the highest paid corporate officer's compensation exceeds by 25-1 that 
of a worker's of the lowest wage.

Third, we need an economic stimulus package to deal with the crushing 
reality of the recession that is hitting people hard each and every 
day. I cannot vote to reward those predatory and subprime lenders who 
are really creating havoc in the lives of millions of Americans. There 
has got to be a better way.