---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES PRIVATE CHARLES HIGH
## `19eb17b72704a60e4202bb69628693e8`
`Mr. UDALL of New Mexico — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Since the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan began 
nearly 9 years ago, 72 service members with New Mexico ties have lost 
their lives while defending our Nation and the freedoms we hold dear.

Seventy-two. They were brothers and fathers and husbands and sons and 
friends. Each was irreplaceable to his family. Each had a different 
story. Today, I rise to tell the story of one of those men.

U.S. Army PVT Charles High was 21 years old, a son of the city of 
Albuquerque who attended Eldorado High School.

Known as ''Charlie'' to his friends, he played the viola in his high 
school orchestra. He ran track. And he taught himself how to play 
guitar.

Charlie's dad says he always knew that his son would join the 
military. He signed up for Junior ROTC when he was 14, and his dad said 
he was hooked. He went on to join the Army in June of 2007 and was 
stationed at Fort Campbell in Kentucky as part of the elite 101st 
Airborne Division.

His tour in Afghanistan was his second overseas. He served his first 
tour in 2008 in Iraq.

Charlie was killed last month when an IED detonated near his vehicle, 
which was patrolling in Afghanistan's Kunar Province.

He leaves behind his dad Charles, his mom Kimberlea Johnson of 
Illinois, his fiancee Maggie Jo Simmonds, four siblings, his 
grandparents and great-grandmother, and dozens of other family members 
and friends.

A month before he was killed, Charlie had gone home to Albuquerque 
for a visit with friends and family. Here is what his Dad said when 
asked about his son's death:




 I would say he's a true American hero. He fought and died 


 for his country. He died doing what he wanted to do. I hate 


 to see him go so young, but he was quite a young man all the 


 way around. When he was home, we could see how much he had 


 grown.


Charlie's impact on all who knew him was evident in the messages of 
condolence left for his family after his death.

''He was a great friend and example,'' read one.

''You never gave up and never surrendered,'' said another.

''He gave his life for freedom.''

''He is a hero to us all.''

Private High: you truly are a ''hero to us all.'' You are forever in 
our hearts, and we are forever in your debt.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.