---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `19f13fc37c295131e938a63e6e2a1f7c`
`Mr. COSTA — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise this evening to welcome this much 
needed debate, on perhaps one of the greatest challenges facing our 
generation, our country, this war in Iraq. I intend to support this 
nonbinding resolution not because I believe it is perfect, rather in 
fact I feel it is probably imperfect.

But I am supporting it because I hope this will be the beginning of a 
rational, bipartisan dialogue for a new direction to be employed 
together with the House of Representatives, with the Congress working 
together with the President.

For after all, Mr. Speaker, we are the people's House. The choices 
that we have before us today are more than simply cut and run or stay 
the course. For after all, we know a long time ago that was nothing 
more than a sound bite, and the American public understood that it was 
nothing more than a political sound bite. We are a wonderful country. 
We have tremendous resources, ingenuity, and we have credibility 
notwithstanding our difficulties today throughout the world.

And therefore, as the world's greatest super power, we have resources 
and means in which we can offer alternative choices to bring together 
people, not only in the Middle East, but allies throughout the world 
that supported us in the past.

Everyone who has talked about this nonbinding resolution talks about 
the cost. We all talk about their support for our men and women in 
uniform, our support to continue to ensure that they are properly 
funded and to ensure that we always, always remember the current costs 
that have been expended, over 3,000 lives, over 23,000 that have been 
injured, and a fiscal accountability that has gotten lost in the checks 
and balances of the Congress, a war that initially was advertised to 
cost us $60 billion is now in excess of $379 billion, $8 billion a 
month, with a supplemental request for another $235 billion.

Mr. Speaker, we do not need nor should we micromanage the war. But we 
should, as an equal branch of Government, require and demand 
accountability. That is why I stood up on this floor 2 weeks ago 
supporting the Blue Dog Accountability Act to ensure that we have an 
opportunity to review on a regular basis the conduct of the war, the 
no-bid contracts, the single sourcing, putting our troops in harm's way 
without adequate armament.

Let us not forget, for almost 4 years our President and the course 
that he conducted and the case he has made has had a blank check, 
literally a blank check to conduct this effort as he saw fit.



And it has only been in the last 6 months when it became abundantly 
clear in the last year that it was determined that a new course or a 
new direction would be needed. But, unfortunately, so much of this new 
course that the President offered last month is more of the same and, 
unfortunately, too little too late.

I told the President that I was doubtful on this surge. Why? Because 
we have had previous surges, back in August of last year a surge in 
Baghdad with six brigades that was promised by the Iraqi Army. They 
delivered two. They weren't very good. We neutralized Sadr City. Maliki 
got political pressure placed on him. We were asked to leave.

Unless we have a robust political effort that accompanies this surge, 
I fear, unfortunately, more of the same will occur, which is why I 
asked the Secretary of State last week what is plan B?

We are, whether we like it or not, in the middle of a sectarian civil 
war. And unfortunately, the folks that we are trying to referee are 
more concerned about how power is distributed and how oil revenues are 
distributed as opposed to instituting a democracy in the Middle East. 
And therefore, we need a new direction.

Have we not learned the lessons that many of us remember from the 
Vietnam War? Secretary Powell knew those lessons well. Remember what 
Secretary Powell advised our President? He says, Iraq, Mr. President, 
is like a Pottery Barn. We break it, we own it. Unfortunately, how true 
those words have come.

But Secretary Powell knew from his experience as a general that the 
Powell doctrine invoked four principles, one, to have overwhelming 
support of the Nation; two, in fact, to ensure that we


had a broad international coalition; three, that we went in with 
overwhelming force; and, four, that we had an exit strategy. None of 
those are in evidence.

So let me close. I believe that a new direction is evident. I believe 
America is less safe today than it was before the 9/11 attacks. And as 
violence in Iraq climbs and the costs continue to soar, we need a new 
direction in Iraq in a bipartisan fashion.

I ask my colleagues to work on this bipartisan manner, evaluating the 
facts, not on rhetoric, to create a real plan for security in Iraq, 
stability in the Middle East, and let's not forget Afghanistan, the 
problems that exist in Lebanon today, and let's come together as a 
nation. Our troops deserve better.