# PRIVATE CLARENCE SPENCER AND SERGEANT FIRST CLASS ALLEN MOSTEIRO
## `19f333d5464df8ea3a617421fe2edf4d`
`Ms. GRANGER — 26 March 2007`

---


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor one of the bravest 
and most dedicated young heroes of north Texas and of our Nation.

Army Private Clarence Spencer was killed in Bilad, Iraq while 
fighting against enemy forces in one of the most important conflicts 
our Nation has ever engaged in. Clarence Spencer gallantly and 
selflessly gave his life for his country while fighting alongside his 
fellow soldiers of the 1st Cavalry Division of Fort Hood, Texas.

Private Spencer is survived by his mother and son and his loving 
wife, Army Private Charlotte Spencer, who has also devoted herself to 
our Nation's noble military profession.

Clarence Spencer served three tours in Iraq, two of which were as a 
marine. Wounded in Iraq on a previous tour, he demonstrated tremendous 
courage by deploying into harm's way once again. Private Clarence 
Spencer is gone, but he will never be forgotten. His memory lives in 
our hearts, and America is eternally grateful for his spirit and his 
dedication.

As Clarence's Dunbar High School football coach said about Clarence, 
''I have coached faster, stronger and more talented students, but I've 
never coached anyone I was more proud of.'' That is precisely the way 
that the Fort Worth community and our Nation feel about soldiers such 
as Private Clarence Spencer, a true American hero.

Madam Speaker, I also rise to honor a second hero of the Fort Worth 
community and of our Nation. A graduate of Fort Worth's Eastern Hills 
High School, Sergeant First Class Allan Mosteiro was an 18-year veteran 
of the Army, who was assigned as a scout leader in the 1st Cavalry 
Division based at Fort Hood, Texas. He gallantly and selflessly gave 
his life for his country as a result of wounds he received during a 
fire fight against enemy forces in Taji, Iraq on February 13, 2007.

Sergeant Mosteiro is survived by his loving wife, son, parents, one 
brother and three sisters.

The American people recognize their sacrifice and honor the Mosteiro 
family's patriotism. As a career soldier and senior noncommissioned 
officer, Sergeant Mosteiro's leadership was instrumental in developing 
younger soldiers, and he did not take his responsibility lightly. A 
veteran of Operation Desert Storm and of the current war, Allan 
Mosteiro dedicated his life to securing the freedoms that all Americans 
so rightfully cherish.

Sergeant First Class Allan Mosteiro is gone, but he will never be 
forgotten. His memory lives on through the wonderful family that he 
left behind and the dedicated soldiers he so ably led.