# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `19fdc36667bd58be3f164f7489befeb5`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, as we consider the Defense Department 
Appropriations bill, the most important question we face concerns our 
military operations in Afghanistan. That is why I have filed an 
amendment which commends the President for focusing on Afghanistan and 
Pakistan and for developing a comprehensive, interagency strategy for 
the region. It also expresses the sense of the Senate that the 
President should provide Congress and the American people with some 
basic information before he authorizes any potential increase in troop 
levels in Afghanistan. In particular, it urges the President to inform 
Congress how much such an increase would cost, how long he expects it 
to last, the likelihood that it will have any impact on our ability to 
confront the al-Qaida safe haven in Pakistan, and the likelihood that 
it will actually destabilize one or both countries. I realize that we 
cannot know these things with absolute certainty, but we should have 
some idea of the expected costs, duration, and likelihood of success or 
failure before embarking on such a significant undertaking. The 
President should not send tens of thousands of brave young men and 
women into harm's way, if he so decides, without first answering these 
questions, and Congress should not support such a decision without 
first obtaining this information.

My amendment, which is nonbinding, does not attempt to pressure the 
President to make a decision about troop levels. I, for one, am pleased 
to see that this administration is apparently asking some very tough 
questions about our Afghan strategy. I think it is unfortunate that 
some, including in this body, have suggested that any delay in 
responding to General McChrystal's request is unacceptable. The stakes 
are too high for a rushed decision, and not only for the troops who 
could be deployed. After 8 long years of war, we need to question all 
our assumptions and rethink our approach from top to bottom. What was 
possible and desirable 5 or even 2 years ago may now be neither. 
Getting Afghanistan right has serious implications for our national 
security, and the answers to the questions I raise in my amendment will 
help us, and the people we represent, to know whether we have done so.

Eight years ago, I voted in favor of the authorization to use 
military force against those who planned and carried out the 9/11 
attacks. Since then, I have remained focused on that goal and have 
noted with alarm the resiliency of al-Qaida's leadership in Pakistan 
and its growing footholds in Yemen, Somalia, North Africa and 
elsewhere. The decision to go to war in Iraq was a tragic mistake that 
undermined our ability to go after al-Qaida. That initial mistake was 
compounded by flawed thinking as too many people focused narrowly on 
''getting Iraq right'' without realizing that the key to getting Iraq 
right was to place it in the context of a comprehensive, global 
strategy to defeat al-Qaida. So, too, we cannot simply focus on getting 
Afghanistan right, we need to make sure that our Afghan approach is 
part of, and contributes to, that broader strategy I just mentioned.

This administration sees that bigger picture, which is why it has 
begun to redeploy troops from Iraq, though not as quickly as I would 
prefer. And President Obama has brought needed focus and attention to 
the Afghanistan-Pakistan region, but I am concerned that our current 
and proposed military strategy Afghanistan may play into al-Qaida's 
hands. Our current approach has mobilized a tribal network in the 
Afghan-Pakistan border region that does not share al-Qaida's 
international terrorist agenda but nonetheless opposes our massive 
military presence in the region. It has driven people into the arms of 
the Taliban even while Taliban and al-Qaida leadership remains out of 
reach in Pakistan. And it risks further destabilizing Pakistan, a 
nuclear-armed country where al-Qaida is now based. Rather than continue 
down this road, we need a smart, targeted strategy to pursue al-Qaida 
and Taliban leadership without provoking further militancy in both 
countries.

Our enemy is agile. It has a network that spans the globe, receives 
financing from individuals around the world and has a presence in even 
the most developed nations. We have expanded our ability to go after 
these networks, working with allies and cutting off the flow of funds. 
Chasing after elusive Taliban foot soldiers in Afghanistan will not 
defeat al-Qaida; rather, we must use all elements of our national power 
to target al-Qaida without getting bogged down in massive military 
operations with unrealistic goals and potentially dangerous unintended 
consequences.

Armed nation-building in a country hostile to foreign interventions 
and with a feckless, corrupt central government is at best an 
experiment and at worst a dangerous distraction. Rather than looking 
desperately for a quick fix to the problems that plague that country, 
we must acknowledge the limits of our ability to radically remake 
Afghan society no matter how many billions of dollars and tens of 
thousands of troops we may commit to the cause. Instead, we should 
pursue a sustainable, civilian-focused strategy to support the 
emergence of legitimate governance. This is the surest way to defeat 
the Taliban in the long term.

Unfortunately, while the decision to go to war in Afghanistan was the 
right one, the exigencies of our military operations are now 
undermining our ability to help promote such legitimate governance. We 
have looked the other way when our supposed allies committed human 
rights abuses, sold drugs or embraced corruption. As General McChrystal 
stated in his assessment, we have embraced 
''problematic'' relationships with ''polarizing and predatory'' power 
brokers, including in the Afghan National Security Forces, who ''have 
been major agents of corruption.'' He reported that ''extortion 
associated with large-scale development projects undermines the economy 
in Afghanistan.'' Additionally, he notes, the Afghan public ''perceives 
that ISAF is complicit in'' the abuse of power and corruption.


Some who want to persist with our current strategy are calling for a 
rapid increase in the size of the Afghan security forces. But without a 
legitimate, functioning national government, a rapid expansion of these 
forces is likely to provoke further instability.

Currently, the only face of the Afghan government in many parts of 
the country is the Afghan police force which is itself beset by 
corruption.



While our current strategy depends upon our ability to address the 
corruption that plagues the Afghan government, no one has explained how 
we can achieve this goal. With the input of millions of dollars, 
international pressure and additional U.S. troops, we did not even have 
the ability to prevent wide-scale fraud in the recent presidential 
election. In the absence of a legitimate local partner, our 
counterinsurgency goals, while perhaps laudable, appear unrealistic.

Rather than further aligning ourselves with this badly flawed 
government, we should focus on targeting our aid to those actually 
working to promote good governance and the rule of law. This does not 
require a massive military presence. Indeed, attempting to accelerate 
this process with an increase in U.S. troop levels may well be 
counterproductive. Countries are typically built by their own people, 
over time, through a process of building a national consensus. This 
cannot be imposed by foreigners, especially when they are active 
participants in an ongoing war in a country that is highly resistant to 
foreign occupation. And we cannot afford to link this lengthy and 
unpredictable process to an open-ended and unsustainable military 
escalation.

General McChrystal has argued that we should significantly increase 
our military resources in Afghanistan for the purpose of ''protecting'' 
the Afghan population. However, he acknowledges that, if we endorse his 
proposal, it ''is realistic to expect that Afghan and coalition 
casualties will increase.'' This does not make sense. Occupying the 
population centers of southern Afghanistan is likely to provoke greater 
resentment and increase the danger to our troops and to the Afghan 
public. The majority of Afghans oppose an increase in foreign troops 
and want to see foreign troops leave the country within 2 years. 
Without giving the American and Afghan people a sense that our military 
operations will not go on indefinitely, we are unlikely to gain the 
support needed to accomplish our goals, particularly if we know going 
in that civilian casualties will only increase in the short term. That 
is why I have called for a flexible timetable to draw down our troop 
presence in Afghanistan.

Rather than risking more American lives and spending more American 
dollars in support of an illegitimate partner in Afghanistan, we must 
find a way to relentlessly pursue al-Qaida without further 
destabilizing Afghanistan and its nuclear-armed neighbor. Our massive, 
open-ended military footprint is not only unnecessary and unlikely to 
accomplish this goal, it may well be counterproductive.

Now, some will argue that anything short of a troop escalation means 
''abandoning'' Afghanistan. That same argument was made about Iraq, and 
it is just as phony now as it was then. The question is not about 
abandoning Afghanistan, it is about correctly defining and achieving 
our goals there. Unlike Iraq, we also hear arguments pointing out that 
the 9/11 attacks were launched from Afghanistan, which is absolutely 
true.

But the leaders of al-Qaida and the leaders of the Taliban are in 
Pakistan, they are not in Afghanistan. We should be concerned about al-
Qaida potentially re-establishing a safe haven in Afghanistan, but we 
should be even more concerned about al-Qaida's current a safe haven in 
Pakistan. Pakistan is home to a witches' brew of militancy, radicalism, 
terrorism, nuclear weapons and weak civilian leadership, and getting 
this country right will be even more challenging, and more important, 
than Afghanistan.

Our primary goal should be to help support the emergence of a 
civilian government in Pakistan that is effective, democratic and a 
reliable partner. It has been widely reported that elements of the 
Pakistani security services continue to provide support to militants. 
Our ability to pressure the Pakistani security forces to hold those 
elements accountable is undermined by our focus on military operations 
in Afghanistan, specifically our dependence upon our supply line 
running through Pakistan. Some have suggested that if we redeploy 
troops from Afghanistan, the Pakistanis will decide we are not 
committed to the region, and we will lose what leverage we have over 
them. In fact, we should consider whether drawing down our troops in 
Afghanistan would help enable us to deal with Pakistan from a position 
of strength.

The Director of National Intelligence summarized the depth of the 
problem earlier this year during his testimony before the Senate Select 
Committee on Intelligence. He stated that:




 No improvement in the security in Afghanistan is possible 


 without . . . Pakistan taking control of its border areas and 


 improving governance, creating economic and educational 


 opportunities throughout the country. . . . [M]ounting 


 economic hardships and frustration over poor governance have 


 given rise to greater radicalization. . . . Islamabad needs 


 to make painful reforms to improve overall macroeconomic 


 stability. . . .
