# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `19fdceb08f8a4615d63a01b9b9c13167`
`Mr. BAYH — 25 June 2008`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart to honor the 
life of the brave lance corporal from Richmond, IN. Layton Crass, 22 
years old, died on June 14, 2008, in Farah Province, Afghanistan, from 
injuries sustained while his unit was conducting combat operations. He 
was a member of the U.S. Marine Corps, Golf Company, 2nd Battalion, 7th 
Marines from Twentynine Palms, CA.

Layton graduated from Richmond High School in 2005. Outgoing and 
active in school, Layton also loved rollerblading, paintball, and 
computers. Public service was a family tradition for Layton; his father 
is a veteran and his brother, Donald, serves in the U.S. Marines, as 
well. In high school, Layton was part of the Richmond Police Youth 
Cadet Program and, according to his family, surprised no one when he 
enlisted in the Marines. It had been his ambition since he was 16 years 
old.

Before his deployment in Afghanistan, Layton served an 8-month tour 
in Iraq. Layton never wavered in his commitment to his country or to 
the Armed Services. His friend, Dustin Gibbs, told a local newspaper 
that he joined the Marines because of Layton's inspiration. Gibbs had 
this to say of his comrade: ''He was a true friend and an extremely 
brave man. He had a huge heart and made quite an impact on my life and 
my future to come.'' These words illustrate the great influence Layton 
had on those lucky enough to know him. His memory will live on long 
past his years through the many lives he touched.

Today, I join Layton's family and friends in mourning his death. 
Layton will forever be remembered as a son, brother, and friend to 
many. He is survived by his parents Donald and Lynne Shingledecker 
Crass; his sister Dusty Nichole Throop and her husband Nicholas; his 
brother Devin James Crass and his wife Megan Elizabeth; his nephew, 
Brenton Isaiah Throop; and his grandparents, Mary Ann and Bob Coons, 
Zeb and Darlene Crass and Virginia Shingledecker.

While we struggle to bear our sorrow over this loss, we can also take 
pride in the example he set, bravely fighting to make the world a safer 
place. It is his courage and strength of character that people will 
remember when they think of Layton. Today and always, Layton will be 
remembered by family members, friends and fellow Hoosiers as a true 
American hero, and we honor the sacrifice he made while dutifully 
serving his country.

As I search for words to do justice in honoring Layton's sacrifice, I 
am reminded of President Lincoln's remarks as he addressed the families 
of the fallen soldiers in Gettysburg: ''We cannot dedicate, we cannot 
consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and 
dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power 
to add or detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 
say here, but it can never forget what they did here.'' This statement 
is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, as I am certain 
that the impact of Layton's actions will live on far longer that any 
record of these words.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Layton Bradly Crass in the 
official record of the Senate for his service to this country and for 
his profound commitment to freedom, democracy, and peace. When I think 
about this just cause in which we are engaged and the pain that comes 
with the loss of our heroes, I hope that Layton's family can find 
comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah, who said, ''He will swallow 
up death in victory; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from off all 
faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Layton.
