---
---

# TRIBUTE TO CAPTAIN BRIAN GLACKIN
## `19fe8965f20c7b318f7aa7af44244b52`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 1 February 2007`

---

 Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I am pleased to congratulate CAPT 
Brian Glackin upon the completion of his career of service in the U.S. 
Navy. Throughout his 23 year military career, Captain Glackin served 
with distinction and dedication.

A native of Lansdale, PA, Captain Glackin received a bachelor's 
degree in lectrical engineering from Villanova University prior to 
being commissioned as an Ensign in 1984.

During his career he accumulated over 4,000 hours of flight time, 
including over 400 hours of combat time in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the 
former Republic of Yugoslavia. He has over 900 carrier arrested 
landings; and even more impressive over 300 of these took place at 
night. Captain Glackin completed seven deployments while serving on the 
aircraft carriers USS Ranger, USS Roosevelt, USS Independence, and USS 
Enterprise. He completed two overseas tours, including a tour forward 
deployed with the U.S. Navy's Seventh Fleet in Japan. He commanded a 
squadron of EA-6B Prowlers aboard USS Enterprise in the fight against 
the Taliban in Afghanistan following the horrific attacks of September 
11.

Captain Glackin's family and shipmates can be proud of his 
distinguished service. His wife Maureen and their two children, Ann and 
Owen, also deserve praise for the sacrifices they made in support of 
Captain Glackin's naval career. As he departs the Pentagon to his 
second career, I call upon my colleagues to wish Brian and his family 
every success, and the traditional Navy ''fair winds and following 
seas.''
