---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `1a0219b9e2167ed98d738f0937c6bee7`
`Mr. LEVIN — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and urge my 
colleagues to support the bill.

It has become painfully obvious that the White House is incapable of 
changing course in Iraq. The Bush administration's talking points about 
the situation in Iraq change from week to week, but the fundamental 
strategy remains the same. The President is determined that our troops 
will remain in Iraq no matter what.

The latest White House talking points are aimed at getting the 
American people to believe that the surge in Iraq just began a couple 
weeks ago, instead of 6 months ago. In fact, the President announced 
the surge back on January 10, and the troop escalation began in early 
February.

The White House is emphasizing today that it finds that Iraq is 
making ''satisfactory'' progress in some areas, such as the cooperation 
between U.S. forces and tribal sheiks in Anbar province as well as the 
formation of a Constitutional Review Committee, although the 
constitutional review itself is not complete. The reality is that the 
Iraqi Government has not approved a law to share Iraq's oil wealth. It 
has not enacted legislation to reform the De-Ba'athification laws. It 
has not disarmed the militias. It has not made progress on ensuring 
that Iraqi Security Forces are providing even-handed enforcement of the 
law. It has not made progress toward increasing the number of Iraqi 
Security Forces units capable of operating independently. It has not 
made satisfactory progress toward establishing a date for provincial 
elections.

In the past 6 months, nearly 600 of our troops have died. More than 
13,000 Iraqis have died. The level of violence in Iraq has not 
decreased. The violence and attacks have


simply shifted away from places where our forces are concentrated.

Six months into the surge, there is no indication that the Iraqis are 
coming together to make the political decisions necessary to end the 
sectarian violence that is tearing their country apart. Time has shown 
that whatever small chance there is of the Iraqi factions coming 
together, it will not happen as long as the U.S. military commitment in 
Iraq remains open-ended. We need to change course. The bill before the 
House does just that. It requires the Department of Defense to begin a 
phased and orderly redeployment of our combat troops from Iraq starting 
in 120 days of enactment, with the troop reduction to be complete by 
April 1, 2008. No other way has worked to convince the Iraqis that they 
need to step up and reach a political settlement to end the sectarian 
violence.