---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE STRONG ALLIANCE BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE  UNITED STATES
## `1a092d54dd6dd871c9c283226f2c7f64`
`Mr. KING of New York — 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. KING of New York. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of H. Res. 
295, a resolution recognizing the strong alliance between the Republic 
of Korea and the United States and expressing appreciation to the 
Republic of Korea for its efforts in the Global War on Terror. As the 
sponsor of this resolution, I join with over 35 of my colleagues in 
urging the House to pass this resolution today.

For almost six decades, the United States and the Republic of Korea 
have maintained a strong alliance that rests on a shared commitment to 
peace, democracy, and freedom not only on the Korean peninsula but 
throughout Asia and the rest of the world. The nearly 30,000 American 
soldiers who remain stationed in the Republic of Korea are a testament 
to this relationship.

Since September 11, 2001 we have seen this bond further strengthened 
as Korea has joined with the United States and other coalition nations 
in supporting the Global War on Terror both militarily and financially. 
Korean President Roh truly understands this grave threat and the need 
for it to be confronted. Presently, the Republic of Korea has the third 
largest coalition contingent of forces in Iraq. Korea also has troops 
deployed in Afghanistan and has generously pledged $460,000,000 toward 
reconstruction and stabilization efforts in post-war Iraq.

The U.S. and Korea also both remain deeply committed to the Six Party 
Talks and have


a mutual interest in keeping the Korean Peninsula free of nuclear 
weapons.

Finally, the U.S. and Korea have been working diligently on a free 
trade agreement between our two countries that will deepen economic 
ties and boost trade and investment for both countries. I am pleased 
that these negotiations concluded on April 1, 2007 and it is my hope 
that the agreement will soon be signed and Congress passes the required 
enacting legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the House to pass this resolution today.