---
---

# VETERANS' BENEFITS IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2008
## `1a0dfefb5fb786576dcf689b218056e6`
`Mr. RODRIGUEZ — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. RODRIGUEZ. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for this 
opportunity regarding the Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act.

This bill improves the treatment and service provided by the 
Department of


Veterans Affairs to veterans with post-traumatic stress disorders and 
substance abuse disorders, and many other provisions.

This is a great opportunity for us to deal with the issue of post-
traumatic stress and be able to get the research that is needed, and 
also provide the services that are needed for our veterans coming in 
from Afghanistan and Iraq.

We know that our Vietnam veterans suffered tremendously from this, 
and we were negligent in not providing the services at that time. But I 
know that they worked hard and lobbied us, making sure that we are 
there for the soldier that is coming back from Afghanistan and Iraq, 
and also providing the services for those Vietnam veterans and those 
veterans from previous wars that are suffering tremendous heartaches 
and problems from this particular illness.

We know that this illness has created difficulties in terms of 
substance abuse. We know that a lot of them try to self-medicate in 
dealing with issues, and this will give us a better opportunity to do 
the necessary clinical work that will give us the insight that will 
help us to deal with those situations and help these soldiers as well 
as these veterans and their families.

Let me also take this opportunity, this bill also is a bill that 
incorporates H.R. 5664, a bill that I introduced to correct a 
bureaucratic oversight in the way that the Veterans Administration 
advises contractors constructing or renovating houses for disabled 
veterans. My bill seeks to ensure that the veterans whose homes were 
updated under this program benefit from all of the modern technology 
and construction practices that can be provided.

Today, veterans, particularly those from Iraq and Afghanistan, are 
sustaining injuries that in the past conflicts would have resulted in 
their death. The variety of these injuries require a fresh look at the 
way that the VA provides guidance to vets in using special adaptive 
housing grants. The primary guidance that the VA provides contractors 
who modify homes under this grant program is VA Pamphlet 26-13 titled 
''Handbook For Design: Specially Adaptive Housing.'' This guide was 
last updated in 1978. This bill requires an update to that guide at 
least every 6 years.

I would like to thank once again Chairman Hall and Chairman Filner 
and Ranking Member Buyer for their leadership and their work.