# SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009
## `1a0fe59ce45f85bf2957c1b19ed9c0c2`
`Mr. CONRAD â€” 23 December 2009`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, I rise this morning not to talk about 
health care but to talk about the other critical matter that faces this 
body before we leave this session for the holidays and that is the 
matter of extending the debt limit of the United States. Let me start 
by saying it is imperative that we extend the debt limit. If we do not, 
the United States would default on its debt. The consequences for this 
country and the global economy would be nothing short of catastrophic.

If you think about the problems created in world markets by the fact 
that Dubai defaulted on $40 billion of debt, think of what it would 
mean to global markets if the United States were to default on $12 
trillion of debt.

For those who say this is Obama's fault--no. This is not Obama's 
fault. He has been in office 11 months. I remind everyone that he 
walked into the biggest mess in 70 years--deficits and debt exploding, 
joblessness skyrocketing, economic growth plummeting. All that was 
happening before Barack Obama became President of the United States. He 
did not create the economic mess, he inherited it. He did not create 
the fiscal mess, he inherited it. Those are things he had to take on as 
the new President.

There were record deficits and a doubling of the national debt, there 
was the worst recession since the Great Depression, financial market 
and housing crises, ongoing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and an 
unsustainable long-term budget outlook with everything going in the 
wrong direction.

This is what was happening to deficits before President Obama took 
office. The deficits were skyrocketing. In fact, we have never held 
Presidents responsible for the fiscal affairs during the first year of 
their term of office because everybody here knows they inherit a budget 
from the previous President for the first year. That is not Barack 
Obama's responsibility, that is the responsibility of the previous 
administration.

For those who say President Obama made things worse--no, he didn't 
make


things worse, he made things better. Yes, he added short term to the 
deficit, about $300 billion in 2009 because of the economic recovery 
package, but I remind people the difference the economic recovery 
package has made. We have gone from private-sector job losses of 
749,000 jobs a month when he came in--this is January of 2009, the 
month he came in. Job losses had mounted to 749,000 jobs a month. Look 
at the trend. Because of the recovery package and other measures that 
were put in place, the changes in private nonfarm payrolls have 
improved dramatically, from losses of over 700,000 a month in January 
to losses of 18,000 last month. We now believe that, in the first 
quarter of next year, those job losses will have become job gains.

The same thing happened on economic growth. Economic growth was 
sharply negative when President Obama came into office. In the last 
quarter, we now know the economy actually grew at a rate of 2.2 
percent. That is a dramatic change. The fact is President Obama made 
things better. He inherited a disaster and he went to work to get 
America back on track.

Let's look for a moment at the debt. This is what happened under the 
previous administration. The gross debt of the United States 
skyrocketed, more than doubling under the previous administration. So 
this is what the current President inherited. He did not create it. He 
wasn't the architect of it. He didn't produce these deficits and debt. 
He inherited them.

It is true we are still on a course for long-term debt that is 
unsustainable. This was the cover of Newsweek on December 7, Pearl 
Harbor day. The Newsweek cover said this: ''How great powers fall; 
steep debt, slow growth, and high spending kill empires--and America 
could be next.''

When you went inside to the story, it said this:




 This is how empires decline. It begins with a debt 


 explosion. It ends with an inexorable reduction in the 


 resources available for the Army, Navy, and the Air Force . . 


 . If the United States doesn't come up soon with a credible 


 plan to restore the Federal budget to balance over the next 5 


 to 10 years, the danger is very real that a debt crisis could 


 lead to a major weakening of American power.


I don't know what could be more clear than that. Here is what has 
happened since 2001. Again, most of this is on the shoulders, the 
responsibility of the previous administration, because the debt 
absolutely skyrocketed under their watch. But it is continuing to grow 
and we must face up to that.

What is even more alarming is the longer term outlook. On the trend 
we are on, the debt, which will reach over 100 percent of the gross 
domestic product by 2019, is projected to hit 400 percent of gross 
domestic product by 2050. That is the trendline we are on. That is the 
trendline we have been on since 2001, a trendline of massively growing 
debt. The question is, can we face up to it? Do we have the strength, 
do we have the will to take on the burgeoning debt?

This is what the National Journal wrote on November 7 of this year:




 The debt problem is worse than you think. Simply put, even 


 alarmists may be underestimating the size of the (debt) 


 problem, how quickly it will become unbearable and how poorly 


 prepared our political system is to deal with it.


The reality we confront tomorrow morning is whether we will extend 
the debt limit of the United States. We have no choice. If we fail to 
pay the debts we have already accrued, the United States and other 
markets around the world would collapse. That is just the fact. We 
cannot permit that to happen.

How we got to this point is very clear to me. The previous 
administration put forward a fiscal policy that doubled the debt of the 
United States and put us on track to continue doubling it every 8 
years. The current administration has taken action to get the economy 
moving and growing again. Had they not taken those steps, which add to 
the deficit in the short term, the long-term debt outlook would be even 
worse. That does not take away from the fact that we have to deal with 
the reality that confronts us now. That reality is we are on a 
trendline that is absolutely unsustainable.

To those who say if you deal with the debt, you are going to have to 
do something about Social Security and Medicare and revenue--I say yes. 
That is true. We are going to have to do something about all of those. 
To those who say dealing with the debt means facing up to the hard 
reality that confronts this country and the fact that we are on a 
course that is unsustainable--I say yes. That is true. We are going to 
have to make changes in the entitlement programs. We are going to have 
to make changes in the revenue system.

When I say that, I don't mean by that the first thing we do is raise 
taxes. The first thing we ought to do is collect the taxes that are 
already owed but are not being paid because of these offshore tax 
havens and abusive tax shelters and all the rest. We can get more 
revenue. We do not need to raise taxes to get more revenue. We need to 
collect the revenue that is currently owed and we need to get it from 
the people who are cheating all the rest of us by engaging in these tax 
schemes--offshore tax havens, abusive tax shelters. We even have 
companies now that are leasing sewer systems, buying them from European 
cities in order to depreciate them on the books in the United States to 
reduce their taxes here, then leasing those same sewer systems back to 
the European cities that built them in the first place. That is 
happening right now.

If you doubt we are losing money to offshore tax havens, Google 
''offshore tax havens'' and see how many hits you get. You get over a 
million. Those sites describe a life of luxury, living offshore, tax 
free, on income received in this country, income on which taxes are 
owed in this country but not paid. That is the kind of thing that has 
to be stopped.

Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining?