---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `1a17c1b0284ce9eabebd357154306515`
`Mr. REID — 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. REID. We have seen tens of thousands more wounded. The war has 
strained our military and depleted our Treasury of almost $500 billion.

The Iraqis are dying at a rate of 100 a day in a vicious sectarian 
civil war. Two million Iraqis have left their own country.

By every measure, the administration's failures have put us into a 
deep hole in Iraq. Yet the President's new old plan--escalation, more 
of the same--won't get us out of the hole. It will only dig the hole 
deeper.

Our generals, the Iraq Study Group, and the Iraqis themselves have 
told us that escalation will only make Iraq worse, intensify our costs, 
and require even greater sacrifices from the American troops, many of 
whom are being sent to Baghdad today without the proper armor and 
proper equipment and the training they need.

On this issue--escalation, more of the same--the Senate must speak. 
The Senate, on behalf of the American people, must make it clear to the 
Commander in Chief that he no longer has a rubberstamp. We must show 
the American people that the Senate heard their message last November 
7, and we, as Senators, are fighting for a new direction for the 
134,000 troops already in Iraq and the 48,000 additional troops the 
President would send.

The Senate owes as much to these soldiers, sailors, airmen, and 
marines. We must proceed with this debate and change the course of a 
war that has raged going into 5 years now.

I know some would like to cloud the debate. I know some would like to 
delay the debate. I know some would like to have a different debate. I 
know some would like to have no debate. Most of the Republican minority 
wishes to protect President Bush from an embarrassing vote. They are 
trying to divert attention from the issue at hand. They would like to 
turn the Senate into a procedural quagmire. They want to hide behind 
weak and misleading arguments about the Senate's rules or a Senator's 
right to offer amendments. These arguments are diversions.

Today's vote is about more than procedure. It is an opportunity to 
send a powerful message: The Senate will no longer sit on the sidelines 
while our troops police an ugly civil war in a nation far away. The 
issue before America today is escalation. The issue before the Senate 
today is escalation. That is why the Senate's responsibility must be to 
vote on escalation and whether the so-called surge is supported or 
opposed.

This is the choice: More war or less war. I applaud the courage of a 
few hardy Republicans who will vote cloture and allow this vote to 
occur.

As I said, most of the Republican minority wish to protect President 
Bush from this vote. They intend to vote for what is best for their 
political party. But as President John Fitzgerald Kennedy said, 
''Sometimes party loyalty asks too much.''

Today in the Senate, Republican party loyalty asks too much. In the 
Senate this Saturday, this February 17, today is the time for Senators 
to vote for openness, for transparency, to show their constituents in 
all 50 States: Do our Senators support or oppose sending 48,000 more 
United States soldiers and marines into the darkness of Iraq?

During the week we heard speeches about supporting our troops. The 
best


way to support the troops is to ensure they have a strategy that will 
let them complete their mission so they can come home. We need a new 
direction in Iraq. Escalation is not the answer. More of the same is 
not the answer. The answer is to tell the President: Not more war but 
less war.

I urge my colleagues to vote cloture and thus vote to change course 
in this bloody war now raging 7,500 miles from this Senate Chamber and 
our beloved United States Capitol.

I yield the floor.
















 Cloture Motion
