---
---

# THE NATIONAL DEBT AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `1a28cf0c3af35ebfef69a56000c9f703`
`Mr. ROSS — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, this evening, as on most Tuesday evenings when 
Congress is in session, I rise on behalf of the fiscally conservative 
Democratic Blue Dog Coalition. We are a group of 47 conservative to 
moderate Democrats that simply want to come here, put an end to the 
partisan bickering, and restore common sense and fiscal discipline to 
our Nation's government.

This evening, as we begin this hour-long conversation, we are going 
to focus on Iraq, and specifically we are going to focus on how your 
tax dollars are being spent in Iraq.

You have heard a lot of talk this evening about Iraq. And I can 
assure you as long as we have our men and women in uniform in harm's 
way, we are going to support them. They are doing everything that has 
been asked of them and then some. My brother-in-law is in the U.S. Air 
Force. He has been in the region several times. My first cousin is in 
the U.S. Army, and he is in Iraq this evening. It has affected all of 
us in one way or another. We have all had family or friends serve 
there.

This evening we are going to specifically focus on how your tax money 
is being spent in Iraq. For the last 5 years, the President has pretty 
much asked for a blank check, and if you ask him to be held accountable 
for how your tax money is spent in Iraq, he will tell you that you are 
unpatriotic. It is time that we stood up to this President and demanded 
the kind of accountability on how your tax money is being spent in Iraq 
just as we demand accountability from local and State governments when 
they receive a Federal grant. To put it another way, $16 million of 
your tax money is being spent in Iraq every hour; $16 million of your 
tax money is being spent in Iraq every hour. That is $16 million an 
hour that can't go to replace the bridge in Minnesota that fell. And, 
by the way, there are thousands more structurally deficient bridges in 
this country, and this should have been a wake-up call for all of us to 
get about the business of rebuilding this Nation's infrastructure and 
begin to invest in America again.

Just in my congressional district during the month of August, some 
people think we go home and go on vacation for a month, but what we 
really do is we go home and see the people, which I think is an 
important part of this job. If you are going to represent folks, I 
think it is important you get out of Washington and you go home and you 
see them. And as I traveled my 29 counties and 150 towns in Arkansas's 
Fourth Congressional District, every town I went to I learned of a 
project, of a need. On the western side, they want to finish I-49, 
which can create jobs and economic opportunities. An interstate where 
construction started on it back when I was about 5 years old entering 
kindergarten. I am now 46 and have a daughter in college.

When I go to the eastern side of my district, I hear a lot of talk 
about wanting to complete I-69, which was announced 5 years before I 
was born. In the central part of the district, I hear a lot of talk 
about four-laning U.S. 82, four-laning 167, how we need money to invest 
in getting off the Sparta aquifer and having more and more commercial 
and residential people getting their water from other alternative water 
sources. As I traveled and toured Millwood Lake, I learned about how 
this wonderful recreational lake, a lake that contributed to the 
economy, it is now becoming very difficult to fish in about a quarter 
of it and they are worried about the rest of it. Why? Because of the 
neglect. The neglect in our Nation's infrastructure, the neglect in our 
waterways, in our highways. And yet we continue to spend $16 million an 
hour of your tax money in Iraq. Mr. Speaker, I say it is time to start 
investing in America again, and we are going to talk more about that 
this evening.

During the past 6 years, we have had a President that has given us 
the largest debt ever in our Nation's history, the largest deficit ever 
in our Nation's history, for the past 6 years, during the time that we 
had Republicans controlling the White House, the House and the Senate. 
We have passed a budget this year that will put us back in balance by 
2012 and will begin to restore common sense and fiscal discipline to 
our Nation's government.

But this is what the new Democratic majority inherited in January: a 
debt that is $8,993,600,200,089 and some change. That is a big number. 
What does it mean? If you break it out and divide it by every man, 
woman and child living in America, including those born today, each one 
of us, our share of the national debt: $29,704. It is what those of us 
in the Blue Dog Coalition refer to as the ''debt tax,'' d-e-b-t, which 
is one tax that cannot be repealed, that cannot be cut. And that is one 
of the reasons that we are not able to invest in America's priorities, 
investing in our homeland, investing in our veterans, investing in 
education, investing in rebuilding America's infrastructure. No. We are 
too busy paying interest on this debt.

Our Nation is borrowing about a billion dollars a day, but before we 
borrow a billion dollars today, we are going to spend a half billion 
today paying interest on the debt we have already got. That is above 
and beyond the $16 million an hour that we are sending to Iraq, much of 
which goes unaccounted for.

So we are going to spend this hour addressing that and other issues 
surrounding Iraq. And I am absolutely delighted to be joined by a 
number of my Blue Dog colleagues. I mentioned there are 47 members in 
the Blue Dog Coalition, and I would like to take this opportunity to 
welcome the four newest members: Christopher Carney from Pennsylvania's 
Tenth Congressional District, Gabrielle Giffords from Arizona's Eighth 
Congressional District, Bart Gordon from Tennessee's Sixth 
Congressional District, and Zach Space from Ohio's Eighteenth 
Congressional District.

At this time I am pleased to yield to a fellow Blue Dog, someone who 
has become very involved in this conservative-moderate Democratic 
movement on Capitol Hill, someone who is not afraid to take a stand for 
what is right, and that is my friend Joe Donnelly from Indiana's Second 
Congressional District.