---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `1a32099185016436f262432ad7e4a6f3`
`Mr. MATHESON — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. MATHESON. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution. 
This afternoon I went to Walter Reed and I visited some injured 
soldiers. One of them was from my congressional district in the State 
of Utah; had a number of serious injuries. He has been in intensive 
care at Walter Reed for about 3 weeks now. His wife was there with him. 
There were pictures of his 2-year old daughter plastered up all over 
the wall. His daughter is back in Utah with a set of grandparents.

I wish everyone could have the experience of going and meeting the 
soldiers and the families. They inspire me, and they also tell me how 
serious this issue is about putting people in harm's way, because the 
lives of that family are changed forever based on these severe injuries 
that this soldier undertook.

With regard to the situation in Iraq, our military personnel have 
done everything we have asked. We can never thank our troops enough, 
and we owe them. We have an obligation to them to give them the best 
opportunity for success.

The problem is that we have never really stood here and talked about 
a strategy for success. A successful strategy has to be comprehensive. 
That is what has been needed from the outset of the conflict in Iraq, 
and it is still needed today as Iraq descends into civil war.

A strategy for success in Iraq requires more than a military 
strategy. We have the most powerful military in the world, without a 
doubt. If military might alone could succeed, we would be done by now.

The situation in Iraq has always required a more comprehensive 
effort. We need a plan for political and diplomatic and economic 
success.

Now, just a couple of months ago, Congress was actually handed just 
such a strategy in the report from the bipartisan Iraq Study Group. The 
report was put together by some of the greatest statesmen, diplomats 
and military minds of our generation. This was a bipartisan group led 
by former Secretary of State James Baker and former 9/11 Commission 
Chairman Lee Hamilton. These venerable men and women painstakingly 
considered all the available options. They talked to military 
strategists, generals, Iraqis and each and every type of individual who 
might hold the key to a way forward. They acknowledge that each 
recommendation of the Iraq Study Group carries its own risk factors. 
But in the end, this bipartisan group unanimously endorsed a plan to 
move forward. And in doing so, they rejected the overly simplistic 
discussion that seemed to dominate the 2006 election season when the 
primary options that were discussed were either stay the course or cut 
and run. In fact, the Iraq Study Group report provides reasoned 
arguments against both of these options.

As for staying the course, the Iraq Study Group states that, and I 
quote, ''The longer the United States remains in Iraq without progress, 
the more resentment will grow among Iraqis who


believe they are the subjects of a repressive American occupation. As 
one U.S. official said to us, 'Our leaving would make it worse. The 
current approach without modification will not make it better.' ''

As for an immediate withdrawal, the Iraq Study Group states that if 
we left tomorrow we would simply leave an immense power vacuum in Iraq. 
The results would have devastating effects on the global economy, the 
region and the Iraqi people themselves. And specifically, the report 
says that ''a premature American departure from Iraq would almost 
certainly produce greater sectarian violence and further deterioration 
of conditions.''

Now, the resolution we are debating right now addresses the proposal 
to increase the number of U.S. troops in Iraq by just over 20,000. 
Let's remember that the Iraq Study Group specifically took a hard look 
at the surge option. In discussing the merits of a surge the Iraq Study 
Group report said that a surge ''might temporarily help limit violence 
in a highly localized area. However, past experience indicates that the 
violence would simply rekindle as soon as U.S. forces are moved to 
another area.''

Furthermore, many generals and other military strategists have 
roundly criticized the surge strategy.

Now, I have long believed that the lack of independent, accurate 
assessments of our progress has hampered our efforts to secure Iraq and 
assist in its reconstruction. I strongly believe that the U.S. cannot 
linger in making the important policy and strategic decisions 
recommended in the report.

That is why we need to follow the recommendations of the Iraq Study 
Group report. U.S. forces should be redeployed from combat missions to 
support functions. Our troops should be supplementing the Iraqi Army. 
And at the same time, we have to move forward on the economic 
development front and the political front and the regional diplomacy 
front.

The resolution we are debating today is very simple. We support our 
troops and we oppose the surge strategy. I will vote for this 
resolution.

As I said before, our troops have done everything we have asked of 
them. Their performance is a source of great admiration and pride for 
everyone in America. At a minimum, we owe them a new approach and a 
thoughtful approach to the situation in Iraq and the pursuit of a 
comprehensive strategy for success.

