---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `1a43af754b262a5e2a41f4abe7dbcb3a`
`Mr. BIDEN — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, last week, the Congress sent the President 
an emergency supplemental spending bill for Iraq. That bill provided 
every dollar our troops need and every dollar the President requested 
and then some.

It also provided what a majority of Americans expect and that is they 
expect a plan to start to bring home American troops, to bring this war 
to a responsible end, and to not escalate it indefinitely as this 
President is doing.

In vetoing the bill, the President not only denied our troops the 
funding they needed, but he denied the American people what they have 
clearly stated they want: a responsible path out of Iraq. That is what 
the 2006 election was about. That is what every poll is about. That is 
what the Senator from West Virginia, whom I see on the floor, and I and 
others have been saying for some time now. I might add, that is also 
what I think an awful lot of our Republican colleagues want.

I raised a few eyebrows when I said a month ago that I don't think 
there are more than a dozen members of the opposition who truly believe 
this policy of unrelenting escalation with no end in sight in Iraq is 
one they support. The question is: What do we do in the face of the 
President's recalcitrance?

We all know, and again I refer to my friend from West Virginia, the 
most learned person in the Senate--I don't go back as far as he does, 
but I go back to trying to end the war in Vietnam. I remember how 
painfully long that process was. Once the whole Nation and the Senate 
had turned against the war, it was still painfully difficult to end.

So if it were up to me, I would send the same emergency spending bill 
back to the President and have the votes, with the money for our troops 
and the plan that is in that legislation to end the war, which the 
people expect. I would send it back to him again and again and again 
and again and let him veto it again and again and again and again. Any 
reasonable person listening to my speaking might ask: Why would you do 
that, not a fool's errand? I believe the more we keep this front and 
center, the more we relentlessly push on this President to abandon his 
flawed policy, the more pressure will be brought upon our colleagues 
who, in their hearts, know this is not the right policy but are voting 
with the President instead of with the troops.

I must admit straight up, this is about building pressure. We are 
going to need 67 votes to end this war--67 votes in the Senate. So that 
means, although I had a great conversation with Tim Johnson last 
night--I might say, he sounded wonderful--although that means until 
Senator Johnson comes back, we need 17 Republican Senators to change 
their minds. That is why we have to keep pushing. We have to let the 
President demonstrate time and again that he is totally out of touch 
with what our troops need, what the American people want, and where 
America's interests lie. In a sense, this reminds me a little bit of 
Richard Nixon. He seems divorced from reality. He seems divorced from 
what is going on around him. I don't quite understand it. I have been 
here 34 years. It reminds me of Nixon during Watergate.

Here we had the Attorney General testify before our Judiciary 
Committee with a terrible appearance, and the President says he did 
wonderfully. The President says the war is going well. The President 
said the response to Katrina initially was great. There seems to be a 
disconnect here. So the only thing I know to do is to continually force 
him to demonstrate again and again, until he changes his mind, how out 
of touch he is, to build pressure in the Congress.

The truth is, votes matter. We need the votes to stop this war 
because I am convinced this President has made a decision with his Vice 
President to keep this from completely blowing up and hand it off to 
the next President. The problem is, in the meantime, a lot of people 
are going to lose their lives--a lot of Americans and a whole lot more 
Iraqis. But I recognize, as I said, the reality that it takes 60 votes 
to send the same supplemental back to the President, as it would take 
60 votes to formally deauthorize the war, as my friend from West 
Virginia is attempting to do, as I and Carl Levin talked about, and we 
introduced legislation similar to that, to deauthorize the war and 
reauthorize a more limited mission. We need, though, 60 votes. It is 
just as people talk about cutting off funding, we still need 60 votes. 
It would take, obviously, 67 votes then to overcome a Presidential 
veto.

The reason I say this is we all are frustrated on this floor. Right 
now, we don't have those votes. We don't have the votes right now to 
send back the same supplemental.

What should we do next? In my view, first, anything we send back to 
the President must and will provide every dollar the troops need. As 
long as we are on the frontlines, I will vote for the money to protect 
them. That money must include funding for additional Mine Resistant 
Ambush Protected Vehicles, so-called MRAPs.



The amendment I offered was overwhelmingly adopted. The vast majority 
of deaths and injuries are from roadside bombs. They are responsible 
for 70 percent of our casualties in Iraq. These new V-shaped hull 
vehicles that will take the place of heavily armored humvees have a 
four to five times greater prospect of protecting troops inside those 
vehicles. They can literally cut our casualty rates by two-thirds.

As a matter of fact, depending on what we do send back to the 
President, it is my intention, if somehow we make no progress, to take 
this money out for those vehicles and move it separately because it 
literally, literally, literally can change the lives of our soldiers in 
the field. Our military wants them; our soldiers need them.

Defense Secretary Gates said MRAPs are ''the highest priority 
acquisition program. Any and all options to accelerate the production 
and fielding of this capability should be identified, assessed, and 
applied.'' I am happy to hear him say that because originally they 
didn't ask for this money to fast-forward the funding of these 
vehicles. The Secretary is right. I think it would be unconscionable 
not to get as many of these new vehicles as possible in the field as 
fast as possible.


Second, if we don't have the votes now for a hard timetable, which is 
what is in the bill that was vetoed, a hard timetable that came out of 
the language Senator Levin and I worked on putting in the bill, if, in 
fact, we don't have the votes now for that hard timetable to start 
getting our troops out of Iraq, any bill we send back to the President 
must limit dramatically the mission of the troops in Iraq.

We must get our troops out of the middle of this sectarian civil war 
that we cannot end militarily. Having 15,000, 20,000, 30,000 troops in 
a city of 6,200,000 people knocking on doors in the middle of a civil 
war is just foolhardy. Instead, we should focus our military on a much 
more limited mission that is in the national interest, that we can 
achieve with fewer troops, and that is doable; that is, training the 
Iraqi Army, preventing al-Qaida from occupying territory in parts of 
Anbar Province, and--and--force protection.

If we limit the mission in that way, the President will not be able 
to justify keeping 160,000 troops in Iraq, especially at a time when 
our military is dangerously overstretched, threatening the readiness of 
our troops and the ability to retain those now serving, to recruit 
those who may wish to serve in the future, and--and--to provide a 
National Guard at home that is needed for natural disasters at home, as 
we have recently seen in Kansas.

Just this week, we have seen how overstretching is hurting us at 
home. When a tornado wiped 80 square blocks of Greensburg, KS, off the 
map, the State's National Guard was slow in responding. Why? Because 
much of its manpower and equipment is in Iraq.

Across the country, our Governors have been warning for months that 
their National Guards are not prepared for the next local disaster 
because they are tied down overseas; or, even if they are home, because 
they took their equipment overseas when they were deployed and were 
unable to bring it back, they are ill prepared in terms of manpower 
and/or equipment. So if we limit the mission of our troops in Iraq to a 
more rational mission, the President will have to start bringing troops 
home now, with or without a hard timetable.

He will have to start listening to our Governors. He will have to 
start listening to our troops and their families who have told so many 
of us about the strain of going back to Iraq on third and fourth tours, 
about being ordered to stay longer each time they go, about not having 
the year at home between deployments that they were promised. He will 
have to start listening because he won't have an excuse not to.

Third, if we can't get a hard timeline into this emergency spending 
bill, we should add it to the next bill we vote on, and to the one 
after that, and to the one after that. We have to be relentless. Sooner 
or later, our colleagues will stop voting with the President and start 
backing what the American people want: a responsible end to this war.

Until we have the votes to force the President to change course, we 
have to keep the pressure on for change every single day. That is what 
I have been doing, and that is what I will continue to do until this 
policy levee that the President has erected breaks.

The fact is, the fundamental strategy under which the President has 
operated is flawed. The idea that through force we are going to be able 
to establish a strong central democratic government in Baghdad is 
simply not possible. It is simply not possible. It is not going to 
happen in the lifetime of any Member of this Senate.

Starting to get our troops out of Iraq, and getting most of them out 
by early next year, is the first step toward bringing this war to a 
responsible end. Just as important, we have to have a plan for what we 
leave behind so we do not trade a dictator for chaos in Iraq and the 
region that undermines our interests for decades.

I don't want my son going to Iraq, but I also don't want my grandson 
going to that part of the world in the next 15 years. How we leave and 
what we leave behind will impact on that second question. We have to 
have a plan to bring stability to Iraq as we leave, and that requires a 
political solution. Everyone--everyone--from the President on, says 
there is no military solution to Iraq; there is a political solution 
only. But he hasn't offered a political solution.

I know my colleagues have heard me talk about my plan for a political 
settlement in Iraq for more than a year now. It calls for separating 
the warring factions, giving them breathing room in their own regions, 
as their constitution provides, with control over the fabric of their 
daily lives--such as police protection, education, marriage, jobs, 
religion--and a limited central government that would be responsible 
for distributing oil revenues, which should be the glue that holds this 
country together, responsible for the army and responsible for the 
borders.


Every passing day makes my plan, the Biden-Gelb plan, more urgent and 
more relevant. Look at what is happening in Ramadi, where al-Qaida has 
a stronghold. The administration rightly points to some successes in 
getting Sunni tribal leaders to turn on al-Qaida in Iraq and getting 
thousands of young Sunni men to sign up for the Ramadi police force and 
protection forces. Listen carefully to how this happened, as described 
by the Los Angeles Times:




 Fed up with the insurgents' killings and their acts of 


 intimidation in Ramadi, the Sunni sheiks came to the 


 coalition in September to tell the U.S.-led force that they 


 were ready to cooperate and would urge their tribes to supply 


 recruits for the Iraqi army and police. Even the most 


 optimistic U.S. colonel was not prepared for the flood of 


 recruits once the sheiks got the word out that joining the 


 Army, police, and provincial forces had their approval. 


 Recently, 1,500 Iraqi youths showed up to enlist in the 


 police, more than the recruiters could take.


Continuing to quote.




 Another change that helped recruiting was a policy 


 introduced in February promising recruits from Al Anbar that 


 they would be based close to home if they enlisted. Within 2 


 days of that switch, 400 youths had signed up.


So you have Sunnis joining the police and army in their own regions, 
staying in their regions to deal with Sunni extremists in the midst of 
their own region, and becoming part of the anti-al-Qaida solution.

What is that all about? It is what I have been saying for a long 
time: give them local control and they will have the prospect of 
bringing this country to a peaceful settlement. That is a whole lot 
better than having them take the fight to the Shiites and becoming part 
of the sectarian nightmare.

It makes sense for our troops to be in Anbar, helping local Sunnis 
defeat al-Qaida. That is what we should limit their mission to. It does 
not make sense for them to be going door to door in Baghdad, a city of 
6.2 million people, and getting caught in the crossfire of a self-
sustaining civil war. It makes sense for us to focus on a political 
settlement by bringing problems and responsibilities down to the local 
level, giving each group an opportunity to advance its interests 
peacefully, not with bombs and death squads but with a political 
compromise.

It does not make sense to send more and more troops into Iraq in 
pursuit of a strategy that has virtually no prospect for success. The 
administration hopes the surge will buy time for Prime Minister 
Maliki's government to


get its act together. But there is no trust within that government, no 
trust of the government by the people it purports to serve, and no 
capacity on the part of the government to deliver the services or 
security that is needed. There is little prospect that the government 
will build that trust and capacity any time soon.

In short, the most basic premise of the President's approach, and 
that of some of my colleagues on this side of the aisle, is that the 
Iraqi people will rally behind a strong central government that looks 
out for their interests equally and is fundamentally fair. That whole 
notion, I have been saying for over 4 years, is fundamentally flawed. 
It is not achievable. So instead of escalating this war with no end in 
sight, we have to start bringing our troops home with the goal of 
getting most of them out by early next year.

As the President rails against those of us who have been proposing 
that, I remind him his former Secretary of State Baker, his father's 
former Secretary of State Eagleburger, were part of a commission that 
said we should get our troops out by March of 2008. The British, in 
Basra, did essentially what I am suggesting. They redeployed their 
troops out of the cities, did not engage in the civil war, and began to 
draw them down. Are they abandoning?

Instead of escalating this war, we have to start to bring our troops 
home, and we have to help Iraq make the transition to the decentralized 
federal system that is called for in their constitution. Making 
federalism work for all Iraqis is a strategy that can still succeed and 
allow our troops to leave without leaving chaos behind.

This war must end, but it is still within our power to end it 
responsibly. That is a mission that can unite Americans and protect our 
interests, and that is a mission that is long overdue.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.