# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `1a44c6d434ec0383443e53b79ffeaf9a`
`Mr. WYDEN — 26 July 2010`

---


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are taking 
a huge toll on our servicemembers and their families. To date, 123 
Oregonians have died in those wars, leaving behind grieving friends and 
families. I'll never forget the pain I've heard in the voices of the 
Oregon parents I've spoken to after they've lost a son or daughter to 
war.

These parents are often called ''Gold Star parents'' because, by 
tradition, they display a Gold Star flag to let the world know of their 
sacrifice.

Our nation can't lift the burden of their grief. No one can.

However, our nation does commit to recognize the immense sacrifice of 
Gold Star parents by giving them certain benefits. One of those 
benefits is a 10-point hiring preference for unmarried Gold Star 
mothers when they apply for jobs with the federal government.

But I was surprised to learn that this preference cannot be given to 
Gold Star fathers. This inequity is a relic from the past; an example 
of the law has not kept up with the times. We can now see that all 
unmarried Gold Star mothers and fathers deserve to have the federal 
government recognize their sacrifice equally. That is why I am 
introducing a bill to update the law.

I learned of this disparity from my friend Steve Ellis of Baker City, 
Oregon. Steve lost his beloved daughter, Army Corporal Jessica Ann 
Ellis, when she was killed by a roadside bomb in Baghdad in 2008. 
Although Steve is a Gold Star father, he would still not be eligible 
for the benefit under my proposed change because he is married. But he 
didn't point out this inequity in the law for his own benefit. He did 
it for future Gold Star fathers. He saw an inequity in the law, and 
felt it was his duty to try and get it fixed for other Gold Star 
fathers.

So today I introduce the Jessica Ann Ellis Gold Star Fathers Act as a 
small legislative fix that will make a big change to federal veterans' 
preference laws through true equality.

This bill will give any unmarried Gold Star parent, regardless of 
gender, a 10-point hiring preference when they apply for federal jobs. 
It will also give the benefit to any unmarried parent of a totally and 
permanently disabled servicemember.

Gold Star mothers and fathers deserve equal recognition for the loss 
of a child who bravely made the ultimate sacrifice for his or her 
country. The Jessica Ann Ellis Gold Star Fathers Act will give them 
that.

This bill is supported by the American Gold Star Mothers 
organization, and is cosponsored by Senator Akaka, Senator Voinovich, 
Senator Collins, Senator Landrieu and Senator Lieberman. I hope it can 
be passed quickly.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.