---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `1a5b26cdf732e1f70cf8013d175aad8d`
`Mr. STARK — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. STARK. Madam Speaker, I rise to oppose yet another increase in 
war and defense spending. I have never voted for a Defense 
Appropriations bill. I will not start today. Throwing more money toward 
a war in Iraq that should never have been started and a war in 
Afghanistan that should be over diminishes our ability to address the 
real issues impacting families.

War spending already swallows over 50 percent of our discretionary 
budget. This bill will add $11 billion to an already bloated Defense 
budget, as President Obama eyes billions more for a troop increase in 
Afghanistan.

There are good things in this bill. I helped write provisions that 
will extend COBRA subsidies and prevent pay-cuts to Medicare 
physicians. The bill also extends unemployment benefits at a time when 
Americans are struggling to find jobs. While I support these 
provisions, I cannot support a bill where the good provisions are 
dwarfed by the $636.3 billion outlay for defense.

The right priorities for Congress are addressed in another bill we 
will consider today, the Jobs for Main Street Act (H.R. 2847). This 
legislation would put people to work rebuilding our country. It would 
invest in building schools, improving our transit systems, and 
upgrading our water infrastructure. It would prevent the lay-offs of 
teachers, police, and firefighters.

The Jobs for Main Street Act also would provide better protections 
for laid-off workers than the provisions in the Defense bill. It would 
extend emergency unemployment insurance benefits for an additional six 
months, and allow millions to maintain health care by expanding the 
COBRA subsidy to 15 months and extending the eligibility period to June 
30th. This is the type of escalation our country needs.

Congress should not be giving more money to the Pentagon to wage war. 
We should be focused on creating jobs, providing health care for all 
Americans, and improving our education system. That is why I am voting 
for the Jobs for Main Street Act and against the wasteful Defense 
Appropriations bill.