---
---

# HONORING PAUL WILEY OF TAYLOR MILL, KENTUCKY
## `1a62d271a58f63f45fbeff3e61ded8a9`
`Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky — 20 October 2009`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Mr. Paul 
Wiley of Taylor Mill, Kentucky. Mr. Wiley is a former U.S. Army aviator 
who now dedicates his time to organizing programs and events to benefit 
active-duty service members, veterans, and their families.

In 2007, Mr. Wiley joined forces with the Moose Riders Club of Moose 
Lodge #1469 in Covington to raise funds for the A/101 Aviation 
Association Memorial Scholarship Fund. With support from local military 
units and the Sikorsky Helicopter company, their first fundraiser 
raised more than $16,000 for the scholarship fund.

Mr. Wiley and the Moose Riders also sponsor the members of the 4th 
Battalion, 101st Aviation Regiment, 101st Airborne Division, a unit 
that deployed to Afghanistan in 2008. Over the summer, Mr. Wiley and 
his friends worked with residents and local businesses throughout 
Northern Kentucky and the Cincinnati area to help the soldiers have a 
little extra fun with their families while home on their 2-week 
furlough from Afghanistan. Through fundraisers and generous donations, 
Mr. Wiley's initiative ensured six soldiers and their families enjoyed 
a ''mini-vacation'' complete with donated hotel rooms, dinners, and 
tickets to amusement parks and museums.

Currently, Mr. Wiley is busy spearheading plans for a January welcome 
home celebration to mark the return of the unit from Afghanistan.

Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in applauding Mr. Paul 
Wiley, the members of Moose Riders Club, and all the people in the 
Northern Kentucky region who have contributed to this local effort to 
support service members, veterans, and their families.
