---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `1a81642b45ba9eed33af7ee123f03d84`
`Mr. KIRK — 20 June 2007`

---


Mr. KIRK. I want to thank Mr. Wolf and our chairwoman for building a 
bipartisan bill that I think we all should support.

This legislation funds critical programs that advance our values 
overseas, it supports key allies of the United States, and it meets 
many of the humanitarian aspirations of the American people to do our 
part to relieve human suffering.

As a staffer, I helped found the global program on AIDS in 1985, and 
in this bill we have record funding to accomplish a great humanitarian 
mission of fighting the HIV/AIDS pandemic.

In this legislation, we support our best ally in the Middle East, 
Israel, now caught between two satellites of Iran: Hezbollah in Lebanon 
and Hamas in Gaza. In this bill, I helped sponsor language that 
increased the audit responsibilities over UNRWA programs in the West 
Bank and Gaza, a $2 million audit especially to look at incidents in 
which an al Qaeda cell was allowed to form in a UNRWA camp now 
bedeviling the Government of Lebanon, and where we saw Gaza Islamic 
University, a U.S.-funded foreign assistance recipient who is running 
in its chemistry lab a cell of Iranian military officers training 
students in the chemistry of making suicide bombs.

In this bill, I also helped fund increasing assistance in the 
Frontier Autonomous Tribal area of Pakistan. This is a program of 
almost theologic importance to the people of the United States because 
it is in north and south Waziristan and surrounding areas, that we 
think the world's most wanted man, Osama bin Laden, is hiding. And with 
this $20 million assistance package, we will bring new links and new 
friends in this region to help complete the arrest and bringing to 
justice of Ayman Al-Zawahiri and Osama bin Laden for the murder of 
3,000 Americans.

In this bill we also preserved new funding in fiscal year 2007 to 
help Christian communities in Iraq. There are still 600,000 Christians 
in Iraq, now concentrating in the Nineveh plain.



The $10 million designation we do there is a great help to these 
communities.

This bill makes a major forward step also in supporting a new 
democracy program for Syria, that one day that murderous and pernicious 
dictatorship may one day be replaced; and also backing women's rights 
programs in Iran, another country in need of a serious democracy make-
over.

Lastly, this bill continues funding for Radio Free Asia and a voice 
supporting Western values, democracy, and human rights in a critical 
part of the world.

Before I was elected to Congress, I was a staff member with this 
subcommittee. I want to thank Christine Kojac and Rob Blair, Mike 
Ringler and Nisha Desai, Clelia Alvarado, Steve Marchese, Craig Higgins 
and Michele Sumilas, Mark Lopes, Lucy Heenan, Molly Miller, and my 
staff member, Richard Goldberg, for their work on this legislation.

In sum, this appropriations bill is bipartisan. It is supporting the 
interests of the United States, and it is strongly backed by our 
allies. It makes peace more likely and achieves important humanitarian 
goals of the United States.