---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `1a8ce41a7ea953c058cd716f7b5ff582`
`Mr. LARSON of Connecticut — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, last week President Bush 
marked the fourth anniversary his proclaimed ''Mission Accomplished'' 
in Iraq with a veto. He refused to heed the will of the American people 
and disregarded the work of this Congress by vetoing the Iraq 
Accountability Act that called for a new direction in Iraq.

Earlier tonight, I supported a bill offered by the gentleman from 
Massachusetts, Mr. McGovern that would have provided for the 
redeployment of U.S. Armed Forces and defense contractors from Iraq. I 
have believed for some time now that we must begin the safe and 
strategic withdrawal of our troops. While this measure was defeated, I 
remain resolved we must change the current course in Iraq.

Before the House is a revised Iraq Accountability bill. This bill 
continues to keep our commitment to our servicemen and women and to the 
American people. It fully funds our troops, improves military readiness 
and holds the Bush Administration and the Iraqi government accountable. 
The bill would provide $95.5 billion to the Department of Defense, but 
would fence off $52.8 billion, more than half of the funds. This 
funding would be held by Congress until the Bush Administration 
accounts for progress on the ground. President Bush would have to 
report to Congress the progress of the Iraqi Government in meeting key 
security benchmarks by July 13, 2007. Only with this accountability and 
another vote by Congress would the remaining funds be appropriated.

The era of ''stay the course'' and blank checks without 
accountability is over. I call upon my colleagues and the President to 
search their conscience and join me in supporting the underlying bill--
a balanced and reasonable approach to Iraq.