# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `1a8e37af14cfce7b8d0090d2aeb1000a`
`Mr. BOCCIERI — 12 May 2009`

---


Mr. BOCCIERI. I have to tell you, Congressman Ryan, after being in 
the Air Force 15 years and flying our wounded soldiers in and out of 
Baghdad, and whether we agree with this war or not, we have to give 
every degree of respect to the men and women who serve in uniform 
because they fought in Iraq and Afghanistan only because our country 
asked them to. As far as I am concerned, when they come back, when 
their boots hit the ground here in America, they should not have one 
hospital bill, any expenses that are required to go to college, get a 
degree and advance themselves. We should be investing in them and 
rewarding them for the sacrifice that they have made for our country.

Let me tell you about a soldier who was in my State legislative 
district when I was serving in the State House. He was injured with an 
IED and will be disfigured for the rest of his life. A piece of 
shrapnel hit him in the jaw, and he had surgeries at Walter Reed to try 
to put his face back together. After he was discharged with a Purple 
Heart, a Bronze Star and let go back into the civilian world. Two weeks 
after discharge from the military, his jaw broke again. This 22-year-
old soldier with a young child had $15,000 in medical expenses that he 
couldn't weed through the VA to get paid to make sure that he could put 
bread on the table for his family.

A soldier like that who almost gave everything for this country 
should not have to pay for his bills for injuries that he sustained 
while overseas. It took swift action by this Congress in the last 2 
years to make certain that our soldiers were not forgotten.

And the Wounded Warriors Program that we have right now that 
acknowledges the sacrifice, the great sacrifice of those men and women, 
we cannot forget and we should never forget. As long as I am a 
Congressman and have the ability to speak publicly about this, we will 
champion those soldiers and tell them what we are doing to put their 
lives back in order and to invest in them.