---
---

# None
## `1ab100fb766ec48620413a1762d8a69c`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 14 December 2010`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, we are, obviously, struggling to find 
something that puts us in balance, a balance that will create more 
jobs, more opportunity, expand family incomes for middle-class people, 
and we do not seem to be getting there. We are engaged in the wrong 
kind of a dialog, in my judgment.

Yesterday, I voted to oppose the tax cut extenders bill that came 
along after long and hard thought about the consequences of my 
decision.

For me, voting decisions cannot be made without reflecting on my 
life's experiences to guide me, things that I saw as a child of a 
poverty-stricken family, not because my father was not willing to work, 
but at times during those years work was just unavailable, and it was 
hard going for a lot of years.

What I remember is how hard my parents struggled to try and do what 
could be done for my sister and myself. That was our entire family.

My father worked in mills that were common in the city of Paterson, 
NJ--textile mills--and there was something in the environment there 
that was very harmful. My father was 43 when he died. My mother was a 
37-year-old widow, and I had already joined the Army. I had enlisted in 
the Army.

I saw what happened. My father was sick for 13 months from cancer. By 
the way, his brother who worked in the mills died from cancer. Their 
father worked in the factory, and he died at age 56 from cancer.

When my father died, 13 months after being stricken with colon 
cancer, what he left, besides grief, unfortunately--my mother being the 
sole income earner for the family, owing money for doctors, hospitals, 
pharmacies, you name it--overwhelmed by debt, it was necessary to go 
bankrupt. It is a painful experience. It is an influence, it is a 
memory that is very hard to deal with because it creates an atmosphere 
of failure.

But life turned around for me, and I am one of the most fortunate 
people on Earth. My wife and I have 13 grandchildren, the oldest of 
whom is 17, and the youngest was born 2 weeks ago. Our hopes are 
totally enveloped by what kind of a country our grandchildren are going 
to live in. Will it continue to be a free democratic society, where 
people still believe their children can get a job, get a good 
education, have a family, maintain a home, and have health care as 
required? Will they have the kinds of opportunities that further lead 
to admiration of this country and a declaration of fealty to this great 
Nation of ours?

I was able, after service in World War II, with the GI bill, to go 
and graduate from Columbia University. I then joined two friends in a 
startup company called ADP that now employs over 40,000 people in 23 
countries. It is still headquartered in New Jersey, where we began, 
bringing an opportunity for companies that needed computer services to 
obtain it from us. We were pioneers in the field. I was a CEO and 
chairman of this great company. The salary for a job such as that, as 
you can imagine, was at a very high level.

It is with this life experience that I view my current tax 
obligations--or let me call them contributions to country because that 
is what they are--weighing them against the value of a strong nation 
that is able to supply employment for all able and willing to work.

I remind myself that we are in a wartime economy. I do not want to go 
back to ancient history, but during World War II, there was a tax 
required that was called the excess profits tax. It was there to help 
the country manage its finances because of the additional costs of war.

Now we are in a wartime economy. Every day our people face harm and, 
perhaps, death serving in Afghanistan and Iraq. Just a couple days ago, 
six people were killed. The death toll goes on. The injuries go on. 
Over 5,000 people killed in the two wars and in excess of 30,000 
wounded.

So we need to have the energy pumped into our country that gives us 
the ability to be able to take care of the war obligation and the 
general functioning of our economy.

I look at the value of a country that is able to function without the 
kind of indebtedness that is consuming America, with other countries 
that are buying our bonds and financial instruments and questioning our 
Nation's ability to redeem our obligations. Where does all that take 
us?

We have to invest to grow our economy and create jobs, putting people 
back to work and laying a foundation for a new era of prosperity for 
everybody. Windfalls for the wealthiest of us do not benefit our 
economy or create jobs and are what got us into this fiscal mess to 
begin with.

That is why I oppose this bill. Yes, there are some things in the 
bill that are attractive. But when I think of a headline I saw in the 
Wall Street Journal a week ago Monday--yesterday--it said: Tax breaks 
for the wealthy go on, and--in not this precise language--the byline, 
the heading said: And unemployment benefits will continue.

Imagine that contrast: Tax breaks for the wealthy and also: Let them 
eat cake, let those people who do not have any income, let them--we 
will give them some unemployment insurance as a little bit of an 
incentive to make sure we get the votes to take care of the wealthiest 
and most fortunate in terms of assets in our society.

This bill wastes money on tax breaks for those not needing them, 
giving the average millionaire a tax cut of more than $100,000 per 
year. Contrast that with a per-family income across the country in the 
neighborhood of $50,000, and here an individual gets a $100,000 tax 
reduction, tax break. This was money that could be used to pay down the 
deficit, create more jobs for middle-class families. So why does this 
bill dedicate so much of its cost to helping those who known economists 
agree will not use that money to boost the economy?


President Obama gave us the answer this week. He said that for 
Republicans, including deep tax cuts for the most fortunate is their 
holy grail. That is what President Obama said. That is what the 
Republicans are looking for most energetically: deep tax cuts for their 
holy grail--the wealthiest. On the other side of the aisle, it is not 
working families with whom they are concerned. It is not the 
unemployed. It is not the struggling small business. On the other side 
of the aisle, primarily they are concerned with only one economic 
constituency: the top 1 percent of our wage earners.

When President Bush cut taxes on those with the highest incomes, did 
the benefits trickle down as the Republicans promised? No. What 
resulted was a gigantic increase in our debt, well over $2 trillion in 
8 years. I was the ranking member on the Budget Committee in those 
years. When we looked at tax cuts, we were told it would not interfere 
with our needs; rather, it was a way to get money to trickle down to 
the more modest income earners. Salaries rose as high as 400 times--
that was the ratio between the top person in the company and the bottom 
person in the company. Years ago, it ran about 40 times at its largest, 
but in recent years, it ran as high as 400 times larger for the CEO's 
pay than the average worker was paid. So 400 times--if the bottom wage 
earner was $40,000, the guy at the top got $16 million. So the 
disparity is something we have to look at.

People need to be able to afford the things that sustain life, and 
here we are looking at people earning over $1 million a year. We saw 
recently in the New York Times an article that showed eight wage 
earners who earned over $1 billion in a single year. One of


them earned $3.5 billion. We saw in the paper over the last couple of 
days that the family who holds the primary stock ownership in Walmart 
has a net worth of about $83 billion, and they, too, would get a tax 
break. Is that necessary? At the same time, middle-class families face 
surging gas prices, skyrocketing health care costs, and soaring college 
tuition. Now we are being asked to continue on the path that put us in 
the hole we are presently in.

As I look at where we are in this country and as I review my 
responsibilities to those in New Jersey whom I represent and what I 
want for those who will follow on, for my grandchildren, whom I love 
more deeply than anything else in life, I ask, What can I do that will 
improve their lives when I am no longer here? I conclude that a 
stronger democratic America will be the most valuable asset to leave 
behind--more valuable than more money, than more possessions, or any of 
those things--a stronger country, knowing they are getting their share 
of opportunity in this country of greatness, of wealth, underneath all 
of our problems. What I want to say to my grandchildren--the oldest is 
Alexander, and the youngest carries the name of Hudson. What do I want 
for them? I want them to be able to be safe, to be able to have health 
care when needed. I want them to be able to get an education. I want 
them to know their country appreciates what they do.

You can't build a building from the chimney on down, and you can't 
build a society from the wealthiest on down. If you don't have a good 
foundation, it all crumbles in front of you.

We are seeing worrisome signs about where America is going with some 
15 million people unemployed at this time. What kind of a picture is 
that for people? And those who can't afford the necessities of life and 
who want unemployment insurance have to be in line to get some help. 
Yet we give the wealthiest more tax breaks. That is not the kind of 
society America really wants. We are giving to the wealthiest and 
forgetting the neediest.

So I wish to say that the vote for me was not easy, that there were 
some attractive parts in it, but the attractive parts were in there to 
try to get the bailout going, to try to get the tax breaks larger, to 
make sure they took care of their friends who are there with the money 
whenever called upon. It is a bad idea. That is not a democratic 
society.

So I am going to vote the same way tomorrow as I did yesterday; that 
is, against this bill. This is a bill that, in my view, will not make 
America stronger. Despite the fact that there is an economist or two 
proffering some optimistic assertions about where we will be, I don't 
believe it. I believe the people who say that the wealthiest will not 
spend the money to encourage the economy's growth, that those who get 
unemployment insurance will have to spend it and those who get more 
modest tax breaks will spend it to get the things they need for their 
families.

So I am going to try to make the reality for our country as good as 
it can be for everybody's grandchildren and for this great Nation of 
ours.

I yield the floor.