---
---

# None
## `1ab620f883bfc76e23293f9f7e07a62d`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Reclaiming my time, the bottom line is, Ms. 
Brown, that we have the responsibility to govern here. The President is 
the executive. He is the Commander in Chief. He was given the authority 
by the Congress, even though there were many votes that weren't in the 
affirmative of giving him that authority. He can send additional 
troops.

There has been a discussion in the Senate. I haven't quite read the 
briefing information on it or the report from the Senate session today. 
I know there will be sessions in the House dealing with that. I talked 
earlier in this Special Order about Mr. Murtha and what he is doing in 
his committee as it relates to defense oversight. We know that there 
will be a bill, a supplemental, I think a $99 billion bill coming to 
the floor, which will be, from what I understand, the last supplemental 
bill.

When we say ''supplemental,'' I want to make sure all the Members and 
everyone understands this is basically what we call emergency funding 
for the war. It is not necessarily in the budget. If it was in the 
budget, it would go through a process just like you do with your 
transportation dollars in your committee, giving authorization for 
certain spending. This is just pretty much a wish list from the 
administration that is given to the Appropriations Committee, and it 
really doesn't go through the full process. I understand this is the 
last supplemental that will come through for Iraq and Afghanistan. But 
what is also in his supplemental are ballistic missiles, other issues 
that they are spending money on.

So we have the power of the purse strings. But I can tell you, which 
I know that we are all together on and you mentioned, we will not cut 
money off to the troops that are on the ground there. But we said, 
leading up to the end of the 109th Congress, that we will not defund 
the troops that are in harm's way. But no one said anything about 
escalating the number of troops, adding more onto it.

So a lot of folks are upset. It is not just Democrats that are upset. 
The American people are. And the President is going against a 70-plus 
percent approval and heading in a new direction on this issue of Iraq, 
and he is still heading in the same direction that he was heading in 
prior to the November election. So it is up to us, Congresswoman Brown, 
to not only state within the Congressional Record but encourage our 
colleagues not only on our side of the aisle but on the Republican side 
of the aisle that we have to lead in the way that the American people 
want us to lead.

I am encouraged by something, seeing some of the comments by some of 
the Republicans about what the President said.

