# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `1abb24cd6ec64acc9a4e419a5376c1b3`
`Mr. LEAHY — 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Senator Gregg and I did, of course, do our best to address 
the many requests we received. We have made some difficult choices. The 
bill contains a total of $34.4 billion in budget authority. The 
President has threatened to veto all appropriations bills that are 
above his budget request. This bill is $700 million below the 
President's budget request. In case anybody did not hear that, it is 
$700 million below the President's budget request.

We have a significant increase for State Department and U.S. Embassy 
operations and security costs. We provide $1.35 billion for assessed 
contributions to international peacekeeping missions. These are 
peacekeeping missions the U.S. Government has voted for in Sudan, 
Liberia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Haiti, Lebanon, and other 
nations.

We provide $5.09 billion to combat HIV/AIDS. That is $940 million 
above the President's request but within the overall budget limits. 
This includes $590 million for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis, and Malaria. Added to the $300 million in the Labor, 
Health and Human Services bill, it is a total of $890 million for the 
Global Fund, an increase of $166 above last year's budget.

The bill contains $476.5 million for Child Survival and Maternal 
Health. These programs address the most basic public health needs in 
the world's poorest countries.

In our country, we are blessed with so many riches. For a child born 
here, almost always maternal health care and child health care is 
available. They


can believe the water they are going to drink will be clean water. They 
can be given a schedule where the child will be given certain shots, 
inoculations, and so on, at certain times. In all likelihood--barring 
an accident or rare disease--that child is going to grow up.

In so many of these other countries, they do not even list a child's 
birth until they are 2 years old because of the enormous number who die 
either in childbirth, where the mother can die also, or die of diseases 
easily controlled--dysentery, malaria, things such as that--before the 
child is even old enough to walk.

I would say it is not an economic issue with us. We are blessed with 
the wealthiest, most powerful nation on Earth. We are so blessed. I 
think it is a moral responsibility for us to help in these areas.

We provide $509 million for educational and cultural exchange 
programs, particularly to build bridges with predominantly Muslim 
countries. We should have these exchanges. We should have as many 
students coming to America as possible, and as many of our students 
going over to these other countries as possible. Maybe they will learn 
some languages. Maybe they will learn different cultures. Maybe our own 
students will come back having learned there is a world outside our 
borders, but those who come here will learn something about the United 
States.

We provide lifesaving programs for millions of destitute refugees and 
displaced persons in Darfur, Iraq, the Middle East, and Colombia. More 
than 4 million Iraqis have fled their homes. Many of these people have 
worked for the U.S. Government or U.S. contractors or the U.S. news 
media and are being targeted because of those affiliations. They cannot 
even get help in getting out of there. They supported us. Now--whether 
one was for or opposed to the war in Iraq, these people helped us--it 
is time for us to help them. Other Iraqis are being killed simply 
because they are academic scholars or officials of Iraq's Ministry of 
Education. We have a moral responsibility to help these people.

There is up to $1 billion in the bill for humanitarian and 
reconstruction programs in Afghanistan to help counter the resurgence 
of the Taliban and al-Qaida.

The bill provides $1.2 billion for the Millennium Challenge 
Corporation. We support the Millennium Challenge Corporation, but they 
have had $6 billion appropriated since 2004, and they have only 
disbursed about $100 million. I felt they ought to use some of the 
undisbursed money they already have, to give us some of the other money 
for much greater needs.

There are provisions in the bill considering international family 
planning the President said he would veto. That is no surprise. We have 
had these provisions in past bills. These are the same provisions that 
have been in the State, Foreign Operations appropriations bill year 
after year. Every year, the President says he will veto it because of 
it. We will have time for that debate later on.

But I recall what Senator Mark Hatfield, the then-chairman of the 
Senate Appropriations Committee, said. Mark Hatfield--a strong right-
to-lifer, as strongly opposed to abortion as anybody else I have ever 
met--pointed out those family planning moneys actually cut down on 
abortions around the world. When they have been cut off, abortions have 
gone up. Sometimes we should get beyond the sloganeering.

President Reagan, God rest his soul, used to give some speeches about 
how we needed a Constitutional amendment to ban abortions. Of course, 
he never supported one here and never asked to have one introduced. But 
it was a great speech. Many objected to President Clinton because he 
was pro-choice. Now we are back to somebody who is a right-to-lifer. 
But do you know what. As a matter of curiosity, abortions went up under 
President Reagan. They went down under President Clinton. Now they are 
going back up again. I wish we would never have abortions, but let us 
give alternatives to abortion in family planning. Sometimes the reality 
shames the rhetoric. The fact is, abortions went up during President 
Reagan's time, and they went down during President Clinton's time, and 
they are going back up now.

The same thing can happen here. Give people family planning money and 
abortions will go down. We saw this in Russia. We have seen it 
categorically in other parts of the world. But that will be a debate 
for later on.

My main point coming here was to say we would not have gotten the 
bill out with this kind of huge bipartisan support without the strong 
help of the former Governor, now Senator, Judd Gregg.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.