---
---

# None
## `1ad2ad0e02ac169aeb3137d4023e0efc`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 19 December 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. In my wrap-up remarks, first of all, I want to 
thank each of you that are parts of the 30-Something Working Group, and 
Mr. Murphy, who headed home to his family this evening, for continuing 
to hang in here and coming out. We certainly could have disbanded the 
30-Something Working Group, Mr. Ryan. We could have said, you know, our 
work here is done. We won the majority and now we can just, you know, 
go make good policy and go home. But it's clear that our work is far 
from done. We have a lot left to do on the agenda. We have to make sure 
that we deal with expanding access to health care, that we continue to 
push for the remaining provisions of the energy bill that we were not 
able to get included. We have to make sure that we focus on bringing 
our troops home. And people need to understand that we're not, we're 
going to be relentless in continuing to try to make sure we do that.

People should understand that the vote tonight did not pass with, the 
vote on the funding for the war in Iraq did not pass with a majority of 
Democratic votes. It passed with a majority of the Republican votes. 
This is this President's war and this is the Republicans' war, and it 
will continue to be their war. They are the ones that are leaving our 
troops twisting in the wind with their families being separated from 
them with repeated, over-the-top tours of duty, three and four times 
over there, having more than a year, less than a year between tours of 
duty.

We've got to make sure that we think about our troops and focus on 
the fact that it is clear now, even with the reduction in violence, Mr. 
Ryan, that the Iraqi leadership has made no progress. And they've made 
no progress because they don't need to because they know right now with 
the message that this President is sending that we're going to be there 
as long as they need us. There's no pressure, no incentive, and we need 
the American people to understand that we will continue to come out 
here; we will continue to talk about the priorities that they care 
about. And now that we're in the majority we're going to continue to 
press to adopt those priorities and shame the Republicans on the other 
side of the aisle every single day until we get dangerously close to 
this election and we put some fear in their hearts so that they don't 
continue to stick with this President who is completely wrong on the 
priorities that the American people care about.