# None
## `1adad4a1425a80e4deddf914642a3219`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 22 July 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, HASC Chairman Ike Skelton 
submitted H. Con. Res. 377 last month to authorize the use of the 
Rotunda of the Capitol for a ceremony commemorating the 60th 
Anniversary of the beginning of the integration of the United States 
Armed Forces. Specifically, President Harry S. Truman signed Executive 
Order 9981 in 1948, which provided for equality of treatment and 
opportunity for all persons in the armed services without regard to 
race, color, religion or national origin.

The resolution commemorating this event was overwhelmingly adopted by 
the House, with the Senate concurring, and tomorrow's ceremony is the 
result. Significant House leadership (bipartisan) is expected to 
attend, among them Speaker Pelosi, Leaders Hoyer/Boehner, Chairman 
Skelton and many Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. All U.S. 
Senators have been invited--Leaders Reid and McConnell have accepted; 
numerous Senators are also expected to be in attendance. Executive 
Branch invites were also extended. I would like to thank Congressman 
Elijah Cummings for leading this special order and for his leadership 
on this issue.

The integration of the armed forces was a momentous event in our 
military and national history; it represented a milestone in the 
development of the armed forces and the fulfillment of the democratic 
ideal. The existence of integrated rather than segregated armed forces 
is an important factor in our military establishment today. Also we 
must continue to promote the promotion to office for these minority 
soldiers and women soldiers.

The experiences in World War II and the postwar pressures generated 
by the civil rights movement compelled all the services--Army, Navy, 
Air Force, and Marine Corps--to reexamine their traditional practices 
of segregation. While there were differences in the ways that the 
services moved toward integration, all were subject to the same 
demands, fears, and prejudices and had the same need to use their 
resources in a more rational and economical way. All of them reached 
the same conclusion: traditional attitudes toward minorities must give 
way to democratic concepts of civil rights.

If the integration of the armed services now seems to have been 
inevitable in a democratic society, it nevertheless faced opposition 
that had to be overcome and problems that had to be solved through the 
combined efforts of political and civil rights leaders and civil and 
military officials. In many ways the military services were at the 
cutting edge in the struggle for racial equality.

The 60th anniversary of the integration of the U.S. armed forces 
reflects the quarter century that followed America's entry into World 
War II, beginning with reluctant inclusion of a few segregated 
''Negroes'', to African-American service men and women's routine 
acceptance in a racially integrated military establishment.

In the name of equality of treatment and opportunity, the Department 
of Defense took a long time to adequately challenge racial injustices 
deeply rooted in American society.

Clearly, it was a practical answer to pressing political problems 
that had plagued several national administrations. In another, it was 
the services expression of those liberalizing tendencies that were 
pervading American society during the era of civil rights activism.

Sadly, just as Martin Luther King, Jr. spoke of affecting the 
establishment with financial boycotts because it was easier to change 
laws than to change hearts; to a considerable extent the policy of 
racial equality was more a response to the need for military efficiency 
than a belief in true equal opportunity.

Men like Walter F. White of the NAACP and the National Urban League's 
T. Arnold Hill sought to use World War II to expand opportunities for 
the black American. From the start they tried to translate the 
idealistic sentiment for democracy into widespread support for civil 
rights in the United States.

The became readily apparent during President Truman's years in the 
White House, that winning equality at home was just as important as 
advancing the cause of freedom abroad. As George S. Schuyler, a widely 
quoted African-American columnist put it: ''If nothing more comes out 
of this emergency (World War II) than the widespread understanding 
among White leaders that the Negro's loyalty is conditional, we shall 
not have suffered in vain.''

The NAACP spelled out the challenge even more clearly in its monthly 
publication, The Crisis, which declared itself ''sorry for brutality, 
blood, and death among the peoples of Europe, just as we were sorry for 
China and Ethiopia. But the hysterical cries of the preachers of 
democracy for Europe leave us cold. We want democracy in Alabama, 
Arkansas, in Mississippi and Michigan, in the District of Columbia--in 
the Senate of the United States.''

The administration began responding to these pressures before America 
entered World War II. At the urging of the White House the Army 
announced plans for the mobilization of African-Americans, and Congress 
amended several mobilization measures to define and increase the 
military training opportunities for African-Americans.

The most important of these legislative amendments in terms of 
influence on future race relations were made to the Selective Service 
Act of 1940. The matter of race played only a small part in the debate 
on this highly controversial legislation, but during congressional 
hearings on the bill African-Americans testified on discrimination 
against Negroes in the services. These witnesses concluded that if the 
draft law did not provide specific guarantees against it, 
discrimination would prevail. Luckily, Congress agreed.

On July 26, 1948, President Truman signed Executive Order 9981, 
ordering the racial integration of the Armed Forces, declaring that, 
''there is equality of treatment and opportunity for all persons in the 
armed services without regard to race, color, religion or national 
origin.'' The policy was to be put into effect, ''rapidly as possible, 
having due regard to the time required to effectuate any necessary 
changes without impairing efficiency or morale.''

Unfortunately, the all-black 24th Infantry was the only black active 
duty regiment left intact after WorId War II. The 25th Infantry 
Regiment was also still on active duty, but its battalions were split 
and attached to various divisions to replace inactive or unfilled 
organic elements. The all-black 9th and 10th Cavalry Regiments were 
reactivated in 1950 as separate tank battalions--keeping full 
integration still in the distant future.


In February 1946 The U.S. Navy published a circular letter making 
black sailors ''eligible for all types of assignments in all ratings in 
all activities and all ships of naval service. Yet it was a full 3 
years later before the first military service group, the Air Force 
integrated under the executive order.

The true fulfillment of the entire scope of Executive Order 9981--
equality of treatment and opportunity--actually required an additional 
change in Defense Department policy which did not occur until July 26, 
1963, 15 years to the day after Truman signed the original order.

This major about-face in policy issued by Secretary of Defense Robert 
J. McNamara expanded the military's responsibility to include the 
elimination of off-base discrimination detrimental to the military 
effectiveness of black servicemen.

As of 2008, the Department of Defense has a total of 1,375,105 
service members serving on active duty in the Armed Forces. Minorities 
serve in senior leadership positions throughout the Armed Forces, as 
commissioned, warrant and non-commissioned officers, evidence that the 
integration of the Armed Forces has enhanced the combat effectiveness 
of the military 60 years ago and still holds true today.

There have been more than 1,754,900 service members from this 
volunteer force that have fought in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom/
Operation Enduring Freedom, of which more than 20 percent are 
minorities, evidence that the United States could not maintain an all-
volunteer force without the service of and critical role played by 
minorities.

The Armed Forces has been lead in creating opportunities for no 
matter the national origin, religion nor race. Making equal opportunity 
not just a slogan but a way of life. It is a place where regularly 
minorities serve as leaders, companies, battalions, divisions. It also 
serves a great opportunity to grow morally, ethically, and 
professionally.

The United States Military Academy--West Point, (USMA) currently has 
the highest enrollment percentage (24.1 percent) of minorities


for graduating classes of 2007-2011. The United States Naval Academy 
(USNA) is at a close 22.7 percent and has seen a steady and consistent 
increase in enrollment of minorities well over 20 percent graduating 
classes of 2007-2011.

The USNA has the highest enrollment number for females (20 percent), 
with the USAFA close behind--19 percent. USMA has the highest number of 
African American enrollment, however it is important to note that the 
enrollment numbers for West Point are about 90-100 students more than 
the Naval Academy and about the same enrollment numbers for the Air 
Force.

Current Active Duty Flag Officer statistics throughout the Department 
of Defense:

 4-Star Generals, 1 is an African American (General ''Kip'' 
Ward)

 137 3-Star Generals, 8 are African American

 279 2-Star Generals, 17 are African American

 444 1-Star Generals, 24 are African American

 TOTAL: 899 General Officers, 40 are African American--4.4 
percent of General Officers on Active Duty.

I am also lucky to serve with several Congressional Black Caucus 
Members that have served in our Armed Forces including:

 Charles Rangel (NY) Served in the Korean War in United 
States Army during the period of 1948-1952; Purple Heart and Bronze 
Star Recipient

 John Conyers Jr. (MI) Served in the United States Army 
during the Korean War

 Bobby Rush (1st IL) Served 5 years in the United States Army

 Edolphus Towns (10th NY) United States Army

 Robert ''Bobby'' Scott (3rd VA) United States Army

I am proud to stand here today and honor the many African-Americans, 
Hispanics, Asians, Europeans, and all the other ethnic groups that make 
up our armed forces. No matter their race or national origin they have 
but three things in common--their desire to champion the ideals of 
democracy, their willingness to give the ultimate sacrifice for their 
country, and their compelling devotion to duty.
