---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `1adec6d33f1a2dd3e657af16cf2cdd19`
`Mr. BUNNING â€” 4 June 2009`

---


Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I would like to invite my colleagues to 
join me in recognizing Greenup County, KY, for paying tribute to Army 
SPC Jeremy R. Gullett.

SPC Jeremy R. Gullett served in the 4th Battalion, 320th Field 
Artillery Regiment of the 101st Airborne Division based out of Fort 
Campbell. He lost his life in the line of duty on May 7, 2008, in the 
Sabari District of Afghanistan.

This evening Greenup County will have a dedication ceremony to name a 
local bridge after Specialist Gullett, honoring his life and service to 
our Nation. The bridge will serve as a reminder to all of those who 
live or travel through Greenup County of the sacrifice Specialist 
Gullett made for our freedom.

A member of the Greenup County High School Class of 2003, Specialist 
Gullett participated in his high school's Junior ROTC program and 
joined our Nation's Armed Forces soon after earning his diploma. In 
addition to serving under our Nation's armed services, Specialist 
Gullett was a member of Little Sandy Volunteer Fire Department and 
Veterans of Foreign Wars, dedicating his life to service domestically 
and internationally.

Specialist Gullett's sacrifice for our Nation will forever be a 
reminder that freedom comes at a high cost. We should never take for 
granted the sacrifice that men and women make daily in all branches of 
the Armed Forces.

As we commemorate the life and service of SPC Jeremy Gullett, my 
thoughts and prayers are with his friends and family. All Kentuckians 
and Americans are deeply indebted to Specialist Gullett.
