# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `1ae131b8782af9455550defd11d75fe1`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON — 21 September 2007`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, thank you. Monday, I will make longer 
comments. I am a cosponsor of this amendment. I have said for a long 
time it is my belief that if we could allow the sectors of Iraq to have 
their own semiautonomous government, like is now in the northern part 
with the Kurds--and the southern part is mostly Shia--I think we could 
really begin to see economic stability, as well as political stability.

Of course, we all know we should have oil revenue that would go to 
all of the people of Iraq, fairly allocated. But I think we have seen 
in Bosnia a lessening of tensions when there is a capability for the 
security forces, the educational and the religious sects to have their 
own ability to govern within themselves. If we can get economic 
stability, which is largely untalked about in the United States, I 
think that would bring the political stability along.

So I commend Senator Biden. I have written on this as well. Senator 
Brownback and I have talked about this in many forums. It is important 
that we look at not only the great success we are having, which General 
Petraeus reported on, we are stabilizing the country on the security 
side. We are keeping our commitments. We are going to be able to do it 
with fewer Americans and bring the Iraqi troops forward, but it will 
not stabilize Iraq. We must have economic and political security. So I 
thank the chairman, and I thank Senator Brownback. I will speak again 
Monday. It is the most important sense of the Senate that we can have 
on this bill. Thank you.










Amendment No. 2997 to amendment No. 2011
