---
---

# FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `1aeeb7928c8570a8ad27a80127575b7e`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, today Congress is considering a long-term 
continuing appropriations bill to fund large portions of the Federal 
Government through the end of fiscal year 2007. This legislation is 
necessary because Congress did not complete the appropriations process 
last year.

There are many reasons to support this bill. For example, the bill 
increases Pell Grant funding to make college more affordable, IDEA 
funding by $200 million to help our neediest students, and Head Start 
funding by $100 million to give our youngest kids the opportunity to 
learn. Funding for housing opportunities is increased by $1.4 billion. 
Without the increase HUD would be forced to deny approximately 220,000 
voucher renewals.

The bill also boosts funding for local law enforcement by increasing 
funding for both the COPS program and the Byrne Justice Assistance 
Grants which directly impact funding for local law enforcement efforts.

NASA aeronautics funding, vital to the Cleveland economy, was 
increased by $166 million over the president's budget request. 
Furthermore, the bill contained an extension of the layoff ban, and 
prevents the NASA Administrator from gutting NASA Glenn.

I also support the $3.6 billion increase in veterans healthcare 
funding that provides service for an anticipated increase of at least 
325,000 patients and to meet rising healthcare costs. In the same vein, 
Defense Health Programs are increased by $1.2 billion to provide care 
for service members and their families--including treating service 
members wounded in action in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Our Nation is facing a crisis in healthcare. The bill provides 
necessary relief for the Community Health Center to finance over 300 
new


or expanded health centers, serving an estimated 1.2 million new 
patients. The bill boosts funding for the Ryan White CARE Grants, the 
National Institutes of Health and the Indian Health Service.

The bill adds $1.3 billion to expand efforts to combat HIV/AIDS and 
TB. At the same time, $248 million was added to the Agency for 
International Development Malaria Programs to expand its bilateral 
global malaria initiative activities.

The bill adds considerable funding for the protection of the 
environment by adding $197.1 million for the Clean Water State 
Revolving Fund. The revolving fund is distributed by formula and will 
fund additional water and wastewater infrastructure projects in every 
state, including Ohio.

The bill adds $100 million to cover operational shortfalls for parks, 
refuges, forests and other public lands; including facilities in 
northeastern Ohio.

The bill adds $1.5 billion for the Energy Efficiency and Renewable 
Energy Resources program to accelerate research and development 
activities for renewable energy and energy efficiency programs.

Finally, the bill forces greater transparency in the activities of 
the World Bank, requiring them to report public disclosure of loan 
agreements between World Bank and its borrowers. This sunshine rule 
will help ensure the World Bank loans are not destructive to third 
world nations.

Unfortunately, this bill includes over $6 billion in nuclear weapons 
funding that I oppose. I have voted against the Energy and Water 
Appropriations bill, which contains funding for nuclear weapons, since 
2002. I cannot bring myself to vote for any legislation that further 
endangers the world. I regret not being able to vote for all the 
positive aspects of this bill, but my conscience and my concerns about 
the threat which nuclear weapons pose to the world matter more.

Furthermore, I am concerned about the potential loss of jobs in 
Cleveland relating to the BRAC process. I appreciate that the bill 
contains additional funds for the BRAC process. I urge the Committee on 
Appropriations to fully fund the BRAC process as soon as possible to 
ensure the additional DFAS jobs can be transferred to Cleveland as 
previously scheduled.