---
---

# RECOGNIZING FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF FORT HOOD SHOOTINGS
## `1af5d28de9e67228f6262e3ebb7c819d`
`Mr. PETRI — 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. PETRI. Mr. Speaker, as the House considers H. Con. Res. 319 
recognizing the anniversary of the shootings at Fort Hood last 
November, I would like to pay tribute to all of the 43 shooting 
casualties and recognize two of my constituents.

Staff Sergeant Amy Krueger of Kiel, Wisconsin, was one of those who 
lost their lives that day. Following the 9/11 terrorists attacks, she 
was moved to join the Army because she wanted to help keep America 
safe. She was proud of her military service and returned to Kiel High 
School to share her experiences with current students. Staff Sergeant 
Krueger had been to Afghanistan previously and, like others in the 
Soldier Readiness Processing


Center that day, was about to be deployed again.

In his remarks at the Fort Hood memorial service shortly after the 
shooting, President Obama shared a story that symbolizes Staff Sergeant 
Krueger's energy, drive and determination. He said, ''When her mother 
told her she couldn't take on Osama bin Laden by herself, Amy replied 
'Watch me.' '' That spirit was evident to all who knew her.

In the small Wisconsin town of Kiel, the news of Staff Sergeant 
Krueger's death was met with an outpouring of love and support for her 
family and friends, as well as respect for her service to our country. 
On Memorial Day this year, the town unveiled a memorial in her honor 
that includes words that meant so much to her: ''All Gave Some--Some 
Gave All.'' As we mark this sad day one year later, we remember Staff 
Sergeant Krueger and send our thoughts and prayers to her loved ones.

Private First Class Amber Bahr of Random Lake, Wisconsin, is a Sixth 
District resident who was injured in the shootings. As the events 
unfolded that terrible day, Amber immediately reacted to help her 
injured comrades and did not even realize that she too had been shot. 
This generous spirit was also cited by President Obama as an example of 
the bravery and caring of these soldiers for one another.

Our service men and women have joined the military to serve their 
country; many, like Amy, to join the fight against terrorism. I am sure 
they did not expect that they would be fighting it here on U.S. soil.

I join my colleagues in supporting H. Con. Res. 319 as we take time 
to remember and pay our respects to those lives lost, as well as 
commend and thank the civilian and military law enforcement personnel, 
the medics and all others who helped those in need that day.