---
---

# AFFIRMING SUPPORT FOR A STRONG ALLIANCE WITH THAILAND
## `1b022133cdbf3d1ce2c5ad9354ff30d5`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 30 June 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. 
Res. 1321, expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that 
the political situation in Thailand be solved peacefully and through 
democratic means. I thank my colleague, Mr. -Faleomavaega, for 
introducing this important resolution.

Beginning in mid-March 2010, anti-government protestors occupied 
parts of Bangkok for nine weeks. Initially peaceful, the demonstrations 
and the response from the security forces became increasingly 
aggressive, eventually spiraling into urban warfare. Most of the 
protestors, known as the ''red shirts,'' are loyal to former Prime 
Minister Thaksin Shinawatra who was ousted in a military coup in 2006. 
On May 3, 2010, the Thai Prime Minister, Abhisit Vejjajiva, offered 
talks and proposed a ''reconciliation plan'' including an election on 
November 14, 2010 in an effort to end the political crisis that 
immobilized Bangkok and killed 88 people and wounded hundreds. Although 
the violence has subsided, the political divisions remain stark and the 
threat of more confrontation lingers. Continuous progress has been made 
on the Thai Government's reconciliation plan. A public forum was 
convened on June 17, 2010 as a brainstorming session on how to move the 
process forward. According to the Prime Minister, the views gathered 
during this public forum reflect visions for both the Thai people and 
society and were in line with those of the government. Two committees 
will be set up by the end of June. The first committee will focus on 
strategies and priorities for reform to be proposed to the government 
and the second will work on nation reform assembly which will serve as 
a channel for all sectors of society to put forward their views and 
proposals with help from academic works.


Thailand has been a long-time military ally and a significant trade 
and economic partner. Our close relationship and longstanding 
friendship with Thailand dates back to 1883 when the two countries 
signed the Treaty of Amity and Commerce. Despite differences on Burma 
policy and human rights issues, shared economic and security interests 
have long provided the basis for U.S.-Thai cooperation. Thailand 
contributed troops and support for U.S. military operations in both 
Afghanistan and Iraq and was designated as a major non-NATO ally in 
December 2003. Thailand's airfields and ports play a particularly 
important role in U.S. global military strategy, including having 
served as the primary hub of the relief effort following the 2004 
Indian Ocean tsunami.

As a major recipient of foreign direct investment, and with exports 
of goods accounting for over 70 percent of its GDP in 2007, Thailand's 
economy depends heavily on its trading partners. Economic relations 
with the United States are central to Thailand's outward-looking 
economic strategy. According to the U.S. Commerce Department, U.S. 
trade with Thailand in 2008 consisted of $9.1 billion in exports and 
$23.5 billion in imports. The State Department reports that although 
Japan is Thailand's biggest trading partner, the United States is 
currently Thailand's largest export market.

With more than 200,000 people tracing their ancestry to Thailand, our 
two nations share extensive social and cultural links.

We recognize that enormous challenges remain ahead. Thailand has a 
past of turbulence and turmoil--the country has experienced 18 coups in 
the past 77 years. I am hopeful that their continued progress can lead 
to an ever more fruitful economic and political relationship between 
the United States and Thailand, contributing to the well being and 
prosperity of both our nations.

The United States is hopeful that Thailand's political problems will 
be solved peacefully and through democratic needs. The United States 
supports the national reconciliation plan proposed by the Prime 
Minister which encompasses upholding the monarchy, instituting 
political reform, and eradicating injustice.