---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `1b0ee1f89a34c5e4431a591da147fe99`
`Mr. BAYH — 10 February 2009`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart to honor the 
life of SGT Ezra Dawson from Las Vegas, NV. Ezra was thirty-one years 
old when he lost his life on January 17, 2009, from injuries sustained 
from a helicopter crash in Konar Province, Afghanistan.

Today, I join Ezra's family and friends in mourning his death. Ezra 
will forever be remembered as a loving brother, son, and friend to 
many. Ezra is survived by his devoted wife Starlia Dorsey-Dawson of Las 
Vegas, NV; his stepdaughter Diamond Dorsey, also of Las Vegas, NV; his 
mother Eva Davenport, of Indianapolis, IN; his sister Atarah Wright, of 
Oklahoma City, OK; and a host of other friends and relatives.

Ezra joined the Battalion Reconnaissance Platoon, Headquarters and 
Headquarters Company, 1st Battalion, 26th Infantry Regiment, of Fort 
Hood, TX, in January 2008. He served as a junior scout and sniper team 
member, and as a leader for a reconnaissance team in the Korengal 
Valley.

For his valiant service, Ezra was awarded the Bronze Star, Purple 
Heart, Army Achievement Medal, Army Good Conduct Medal, National 
Defense Service Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Global War on 
Terrorism Service Medal, Korea Defense Service Medal, NATO Medal, Army 
Service Ribbon, Overseas Service Ribbon and Combat Infantry Badge.

While we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we can take 
pride in the example Ezra set as both a soldier and a father. Today and 
always, he will be remembered by family and friends as a true American 
hero, and we cherish the legacy of his service and his life.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Ezra Dawson in the official 
record of the United States Senate for his service to this country and 
for his profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. I pray 
that Ezra's family can find comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah 
who said, ''He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will 
wipe away tears from off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Ezra.
