# POST-9/11 VETERANS EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2010
## `1b2459121499f8083bcd1dd5c0b8a797`
`Mr. LOEBSACK — 15 December 2010`

---


Mr. LOEBSACK. I thank Chairman Filner, and I want to thank Democrats 
and Republicans alike who have worked on this bill and folks in the 
Senate who have worked on this bill as well, both Democrats and 
Republicans.

Mr. Speaker, the Post-9/11 GI Bill is an expression of our Nation's 
gratitude to those who have served our country since the 9/11 attacks.

As a former college professor, I know firsthand the impact a post-
secondary education can have. It opens doors and it broadens 
opportunities, and it is critical to the strength of our military and 
the future of our economy.

I have had the honor to meet many members of the Iowa National Guard. 
I have seen them respond to the floods that hit my district in 2008, 
and I have visited them in Iraq and Afghanistan. The dual role of the 
National Guard in our homeland and national security is unique, and it 
has only increased since the 9/11 attacks.

The National Guard is no longer a strategic reserve. It is an 
operational one. These soldiers and airmen secure our airspace, respond 
to disasters, protect our borders, and deploy to Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Yet the Post-9/11 GI Bill did not recognize this dual role. It counts 
only service overseas and overlooked the role the National Guard plays 
in federally funded homeland security missions.

That is why I introduced the National Guard Education Equality Act, 
which has over 100 bipartisan cosponsors and has been endorsed by a 
number of veterans service organizations. I am very proud that my bill 
has been included in the Post-9/11 Veterans Education Assistance 
Improvements Act. As a result, tens of thousands of National Guard 
members will receive benefits they are due for their service to our 
country.

While this bill is not perfect and more needs to be done, it is an 
essential step forward. Among its many other improvements for our 
veterans, it will recognize and it will honor the contributions of the 
National Guard to both our homeland and our national security. I urge 
support for this critical legislation.

I again thank Chairman Filner and Members for all their great work on 
this, Democrats and Republicans alike.