---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `1b28b7d5152d3473c18f68f5c357b181`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I will vote for this supplemental 
appropriations bill today, but like many Americans who want to see an 
end to the war in Iraq, I am not happy about it.

In fact, I am deeply frustrated and saddened by the prospect, but I 
also am compelled by my conscience to this vote.

On Monday, Memorial Day ceremonies throughout Colorado and across the 
country will honor the men and women in uniform who have paid the full 
measure of devotion to duty in all of America's wars.

But as long as the war in Iraq goes on, every day will be Memorial 
Day.

Already, more than 3,400 of our servicemen and servicewomen have died 
in Iraq, and more will die before we withdraw our troops. Just last 
Friday, for example, 33-year old SFC Scott Brown of Windsor, Colorado, 
and 27-year old SGT Ryan Baum of Aurora, Colorado, were among them.

A friend of Ryan's family told reporters, ''Ryan never wanted to be 
known as a hero, he just did his job.'' In fact, he did his job--and he 
is a hero.

This is not a heroic day in Congress, but as his comrades are 
faithful to their responsibilities, we must be faithful to ours.

And one of those responsibilities--even for those of us who have 
opposed this war--is to support those brave comrades as they continue 
to do what the President has ordered them to do.

And now, today, all of us in the Congress face a dilemma that I 
foresaw 4 years ago--when President Bush first sent our forces into 
Iraq: having to choose either to take the guns out of the hands of our 
soldiers in the field or to let the President move forward with a 
misguided and reckless policy.

Cutting off funds for supplies and equipment for our troops is one 
way, of course, to bring this war to an end, and I understand why many 
Americans believe Congress should do so. But the more responsible way 
to end this war, in my opinion, is to change our policy, and to avoid 
making an already bad situation worse.

I opposed the Bush administration's decision to launch a pre-emptive 
war in Iraq because I believed it would be a diversion from our larger 
post 9-11 strategic objectives and I was not convinced that the 
President had an adequate plan and enough international support to 
secure and stabilize Iraq after overthrowing its regime.

I said at the time that getting into this war would be far easier 
than getting out. I wrote in March, 2003 that ''success in Iraq is not 
just about eliminating Saddam Hussein. . . . Success in Iraq also means 
managing the ensuing social chaos, keeping a lid on the Middle East 
powder keg, thwarting terrorist attacks at home, and occupying and 
rebuilding Iraq--and doing all of this when our own economy is 
faltering, energy prices are rising and domestic priorities like health 
care and education are crying out for attention.''


So, I offered my own resolution to slow the rush to war in 2003 and 
argued for a program of coercive inspections that would have uncovered 
the truth about weapons of mass destruction before shedding American 
blood.

When that was rejected, I voted against authorizing the President to 
send our forces into Iraq--and today, more than ever, I am convinced 
that my vote against the war was the right vote.

Congress, nevertheless, voted to give the President the authority to 
go to war, and he has used that authority, to disastrous effect.

I have worked to extricate us from the ongoing disaster. I was among 
the first in Congress to call for an exit strategy from Iraq. I have 
introduced legislation, cosponsored legislation, spoken out with my 
colleagues, published articles, traveled to Iraq to better understand 
the challenges we face, and asked tough questions of our military 
leaders during Armed Services Committee hearings. And I continue--every 
day--to pressure this administration in every way I can.

I firmly believe that our challenge is to withdraw from Iraq 
rapidly--but responsibly. For me, the debate today should be about how 
to carry out a responsible withdrawal. And that is the point on which I 
find myself disagreeing with many whose passion to end this war I 
respect.

They argue that the best way to get out is to vote today to cut off 
funding for our men and women in uniform, and in harm's way. I 
respectfully disagree, because that would sacrifice a responsible exit 
in favor of a rapid one--and in good conscience, I cannot support that 
anymore than I could support the reckless way we were led into this war 
in the first place.

I think responsibility demands that we provide the funding necessary 
to keep the many thousands of brave Americans now in service in Iraq 
supplied. With our troops stretched thin, forced to perform longer 
tours of duty and short of equipment and supplies, funding for the 
immediate needs of these men and women in uniform cannot be held 
hostage to disagreements about the folly of Bush administration 
policies.

Make no mistake--I have no doubt that the President's policies have 
brought our country to the brink of a national security crisis. I am 
angry that the President still refuses to accept a supplemental funding 
proposal for Iraq and Afghanistan that provides real accountability 
measures for ending the Iraq war. I voted to force him to adopt a 
different course, and when he vetoed that legislation, I voted to 
override that shortsighted and stubborn exercise of Presidential power. 
Unfortunately, and primarily because of the misguided loyalty of 
members of the President's party, that override effort failed, which is 
why we are considering the legislation now before us.

I did not choose the wording of the bill that we are considering 
today. It is not the bill that I would have written. But it will 
provide the essential funding to support and protect America's sons and 
daughters who are in Iraq right now doing everything we have asked of 
them and putting their lives on the line every day.

But another part is to bring pressure to bear on this administration 
to end this war because I don't want any more young dedicated Americans 
to lose their lives in this war. I want to bring them home.

So far, that pressure has not been enough, as was shown by the 
President's veto of a bill that fully funded our troops, held the Iraqi 
government accountable, and demanded that the


President change course and bring the war in Iraq to a responsible end. 
It is abundantly clear that he is not prepared to adopt a better 
course--and as long as we lack a sufficient majority to override his 
veto, we Democrats can't force him to do so without Republican support.

But I will persist, because I think it is up to those of us who 
opposed this war in the first place to show the way forward.

That is why, after the Memorial Day recess I will introduce 
legislation that implements the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group 
and provides a foundation for the phased withdrawal of American troops 
out of Iraq beginning in March of next year. So far over 40 Members of 
Congress--both Democrats and Republicans--have agreed to cosponsor this 
legislation.

I am hopeful that this bipartisan effort will lead to more such 
efforts. Republicans and Democrats alike believe that this fall is key 
to the future of U.S. military involvement in Iraq. By then, another 
funding package will be up for a vote, General Petraeus will be 
reporting back on the progress of the ''surge,'' and we will have other 
indications of progress on benchmarks based on reports that the 
administration will be forced to produce as part of this supplemental 
funding bill.

I commit to continuing to do what I can every day to bring this war 
to an end. Today, I believe the responsible thing to do is to provide 
needed funds for our men and women in uniform with this bill, which 
also includes benchmarks for the Iraqi government--an indispensable 
step toward having Iraqis begin to take responsibility for their own 
country's future.