# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `1b312d4abf11f2630843a0a5bff14dc8`
`Mr. LEVIN — 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, the conference report on H.R. 2647, the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, would fully 
fund the fiscal year 2010 budget request of $680 billion for national 
security activities in the Department of Defense and the Department of 
Energy. This bill is the product of months of hard work by our 
committee, culminating in more than 6 weeks of negotiations with our 
House counterparts. I thank all of the members of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee for the commitment they have shown to the best 
interests of our men and women of our Armed Forces. I want to 
particularly thank Senator McCain, our ranking minority member, for his 
great work throughout the conference. It has been a real pleasure to 
work side-by-side with Senator McCain as we worked through issues with 
our counterparts from the House of Representatives.

I also want to thank the chairman of the House Armed Services 
Committee, Ike Skelton, and his ranking minority member, Buck McKeon, 
for the cooperative spirit with which they worked with us throughout 
the conference.

This conference report contains many important provisions that will 
improve the quality of life of our men and women in uniform, provide 
needed support and assistance to our troops on the battlefield in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, make the investments we need to meet the challenges of 
the 21st century, and require needed reforms in the management of the 
Department of Defense.

First and foremost, the bill before us continues the increases in 
compensation and quality of life that our service men and women and 
their families deserve as they face the hardships imposed by continuing 
military operations around the world. For example, the bill contains 
provisions that would authorize a 3.4 percent across-the-board pay 
raise for all uniformed military personnel--a half a percent more than 
the budget request and the annual rate of inflation; increase the 
Army's active-duty end strength by nearly 30,000, and authorize an 
additional


30,000 increase during fiscal years 2011 and 2012, if the Secretary of 
Defense deems it necessary to increase dwell time and reduce the stress 
created by repeated deployments; authorize payment of over 25 types of 
bonuses and special pays aimed at encouraging enlistment, reenlistment, 
and continued service by active-duty and reserve military personnel; 
extend the limitation on charges for inpatient care in a civilian 
hospital under TRICARE Standard; enhance the ability of military voters 
to vote by absentee ballot; increase the authorization for the 
Homeowners Assistance Program by almost $300 million to provide relief 
to homeowners in the armed forces who are required to relocate because 
of base closures or change of station orders; and increase the maximum 
amount of supplemental subsistence allowance from $500 to $1,100 per 
month to ensure that service members and their families do not have to 
be dependent on food stamps.

The conference report also includes a number of provisions to support 
the civilian workforce of the Department of Defense. For example, the 
bill contains provisions that would: provide for the application of 
unused sick leave toward length of service for purposes of computing a 
retirement annuity under the Federal Employee Retirement System; phase 
in locality comparability pay in place of cost of living allowances for 
Federal civilian employees working in Hawaii, Alaska, and other 
nonforeign U.S. territories, so that they are treated the same as 
federal employees in other States; terminate the National Security 
Personnel System--NSPS--and replace it with a provision that provides a 
series of personnel flexibilities applicable to the entire civilian 
workforce of the Department of Defense and an opportunity for the 
Secretary to propose additional flexibilities; freeze the Defense 
Civilian Intelligence Personnel System--DCIPS--until an independent 
review can be completed; and authorize the Secretary of Defense to 
establish a new Defense Civilian Leadership Program to help recruit, 
train, and retain highly qualified civilian employees to help lead the 
Department of Defense over the next 20 years.

The conference report also includes important funding and authorities 
needed to provide our troops the equipment and support that they will 
continue to need as long as they remain on the battlefield in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. For example, the bill contains provisions that would 
provide $6.7 billion for the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected--MRAP--
Vehicle Fund, including an increase of $1.2 billion above the 
President's budget request for MRAP All-Terrain Vehicles--M-ATV--which 
are deploying to Afghanistan; add $100 million for unfunded 
requirements identified by the Commander of Special Operations Command, 
including MC-130 airships to provide improved fire support for our 
ground forces in Afghanistan and Iraq; provide full funding for the 
Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization--JIEDDO--to 
continue the development and deployment of technologies to defeat these 
attacks; provide nearly $7.5 billion to train and equip the Afghan 
National Army and the Afghan National Police, so that they can begin to 
carry more of the burden of defending their country against the 
Taliban; and authorize up to $1.3 billion for the Commanders' Emergency 
Response Program--CERP--in Iraq and Afghanistan for humanitarian relief 
and reconstruction projects that directly benefit local communities, 
including up to $50.0 million to support the Afghanistan National 
Solidarity Program to promote Afghan-led community development.


The bill would implement almost all of the budget recommendations 
made by the Secretary of Defense to terminate troubled programs and 
apply the savings to higher priority activities of the Department. For 
example, the bill would end production of the F-22 fighter after 187 
aircraft; terminate the Air Force Combat Search and Rescue X--CSAR-X--
helicopter program; terminate the VH-71 Presidential helicopter; end 
production of the C-17 airlifter program; cancel the manned ground 
vehicle portion of the Army's Future Combat Systems program, with 
assurances those funds will be available for the newly designed vehicle 
portion--ground vehicle portion; terminate the Multiple Kill Vehicle 
program; cancel the Kinetic Energy Interceptor and we cancel the second 
Airborne Laser prototype aircraft.

Finally, the bill contains a number of provisions that will help 
improve the management of the Department of Defense and other Federal 
agencies. For example, the bill contains provisions that would enhance 
the ability of the DOD inspector general to conduct audits and 
investigations by authorizing the IG to subpoena witnesses to provide 
testimony; improve DOD financial management by requiring the Department 
to engage in business process reengineering before acquiring new 
information technology systems and submit regular reports on its 
progress toward auditable financial statements; require the Department 
to develop a comprehensive plan to address longstanding problems in its 
inventory management systems, which lead it to acquire and store 
hundreds of millions of dollars worth of unneeded items; place a 
moratorium on public-private competitions under OMB Circular A-76 until 
the Department complies with existing statutory planning and budget 
requirements relevant to such competitions; and streamline and 
restructure DOD management positions by eliminating 22 of the 28 
current Deputy Under Secretary of Defense positions and requiring the 
Department to develop a new organizational plan within 6 months.

The conference report incorporates two pieces of legislation from in 
the Senate-passed bill: the Military Commissions Act of 2009 and the 
Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act.

The Military Commissions Act of 2009 would replace, and dramatically 
improve, the procedures enacted in the Military Commissions Act of 
2006. In its 2006 decision in the Hamdan case, the Supreme Court held 
that Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions applies to the 
Guantanamo detainees and requires that the trial of those detainees be 
conducted in a manner consistent with the procedures applicable in 
trials by courts-martial.

The Supreme Court concluded that this requirement ''is not an 
inflexible one; it does not preclude all departures from the procedures 
dictated for use by courts martial. But any departure must be tailored 
to the exigency that necessitates it.''

The Military Commissions Act of 2006 created a cloud over the use of 
military commissions because it failed to live up to that standard. The 
conference report would address this problem by, one, precluding the 
use of coerced testimony; two, limiting the use of hearsay testimony; 
three, establishing new procedures for handling classified information 
similar to procedures applicable in civilian courts; four, providing 
defendants with fairer access to witnesses and documentary evidence; 
and five, requiring the defendant to be provided with appropriate 
representation and adequate resources.

The Military Commissions Act of 2009 is intended to meet the standard 
imposed by the Supreme Court's ruling in Hamdan and should help ensure 
that convictions obtained through military commissions will hold up on 
appeal and will be perceived as fair by the American public and by the 
rest of the world.

I thank Senators McCain and Graham as well as the lawyers at the 
White House, the Department of Defense, and the Department of Justice, 
who worked with us and for the great effort they put into this 
provision.

The conference report incorporates the Hate Crimes Prevention Act. 
Similar provisions have been previously adopted by both the Senate and 
the House of Representatives. This legislation is intended to help 
deter people from being targeted for violent attacks because of race, 
religion, disability, gender, or sexual orientation, among other 
aspects. The Senate adopted the hate crimes legislation when we adopted 
the Defense Authorization Act, and it was kept in conference. The House 
of Representatives has now adopted the conference report, and so it is 
now hopefully going to be before us after a cloture vote.

The hate crimes legislation includes, for the first time, a provision 
that makes it a Federal crime to attack a member of the U.S. Armed 
Forces on account of his or her military service--a hate crime that is 
of particular interest to the armed services.



According to the FBI, the trend is up for hate crimes based on sexual 
orientation. There has been a 6-percent increase in such crimes in the 
most recent year for which statistics are available, which is the year 
2006. This is a category of hate crimes that would be covered for the 
first time by this bill.

The language has been written to ensure it does not intrude on first 
amendment rights, that State and local law enforcement retain the 
primary jurisdiction over investigations and prosecutions.

We all know Senator Kennedy was long the Senate's leading advocate 
for hate crimes legislation. As he said when the Senate debated and 
passed this legislation in 2007:




 America has taken many steps throughout our history on a 


 long road to becoming a more inclusive Nation, and our 


 diversity is one of our greatest strengths. Our tolerance for 


 each other's differences is part of the lamp that can help 


 bring light to a world which is enveloped in bigotry and 


 intolerance.


The enactment of the Hate Crimes Prevention Act through this, which 
is the last National Defense Authorization Act in which Senator Kennedy 
participated in his 26 years of service on the Armed Services 
Committee, would be a fitting tribute to one of the truly great 
Senators in the history of this body.

Finally, I thank Senator Leahy for the leadership role he has played 
on this issue in his capacity as chairman of the Senate Judiciary 
Committee.

As of today, we have almost 130,000 U.S. soldiers, sailors, airmen, 
and marines on the ground. Over the course of the next fiscal year, we 
will undertake the difficult task of drawing down these numbers--these 
are numbers in Iraq--while maintaining security and stability on the 
ground. At the same time, we have dramatically increased our forces in 
Afghanistan, with more than 60,000 engaged in increasingly active 
combat and combat-support operations, with more on the way.

This conference report includes numerous provisions that need to go 
into effect immediately to ensure that they benefit our troops 
immediately. These provisions cannot be implemented before this 
conference report is enacted but will go into effect, without the need 
for appropriations, immediately upon enactment.

They include the following in the area of compensation and benefits. 
The conference report includes provisions that would prevent the 
implementation of large increases in the copayments military retirees 
must pay for in-patient care at civilian hospitals under the TRICARE 
Program; provisions which would authorize new special compensation for 
caregivers of catastrophically injured servicemembers; and a provision 
which will increase the maximum amount of supplemental subsistence 
allowance to ensure servicemembers do not have to rely on food stamps 
to meet their nutritional needs. Those important provisions and others 
which I am going to now talk about will not go into effect until this 
conference report is enacted.

With regard to our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, the conference 
report includes provisions that will immediately go into effect without 
the need for appropriations.

For instance, there is a provision which would authorize the 
Secretary of Defense to transfer defense equipment that would otherwise 
be withdrawn from Iraq and transfer it to the security forces of Iraq 
and Afghanistan, their national forces. The use of that equipment by 
those national forces in Iraq and Afghanistan will assist in the 
transfer of security responsibilities to the Iraqi forces and the 
growth of the Afghan Army and police forces more quickly.

Another provision which will go into effect immediately upon 
enactment would allow the Secretary of Defense to use funds from the 
CERP in Afghanistan to pay for reintegration programs to separate local 
Taliban fighters from their leaders. This is a new program modeled on 
the Sons of Iraq Program which was so successful in getting large 
numbers of young Iraqis who had been attacking us to switch sides and 
support the government. These are two programs which I think people 
strongly support regardless of their position on the question of 
strategy and the troop levels. Those provisions will make it possible, 
immediately upon enactment, to use funds to support the reintegration 
of those young Afghans into their civilian life, just the way we did 
with the Sons of Iraq.

This provision will permit the shipping of equipment that is so 
important to strengthen the Afghan Army and police from Iraq instead of 
bringing it home. These are critically urgent provisions, particularly 
in Afghanistan.

Another provision, as soon as a conference report is enacted, would 
permit the Secretary of Defense to use up to $500 million in operations 
and maintenance funds to meet urgent military construction needs of the 
commander of the Central Command in Iraq and Afghanistan that were not 
previously forecast. But these new authorities are not there until the 
conference report is enacted.

As I mentioned earlier, this bill includes the Military Commissions 
Act of 2009, which is needed to make trial of detainees by military 
commissions a viable alternative to trial in Federal court. Until it is 
enacted, any conviction obtained before a military commission will be 
at serious risk of being overturned on appeal. For that reason, the 
administration has suspended all military commission trials until this 
language goes into effect.

We have enacted a defense authorization bill every year for almost 50 
years now. We have done so because Members of Congress have understood, 
on a bipartisan basis, the importance of supporting our troops and 
making the policy decisions that are necessary to support them. This 
year is no different.

With almost 200,000 men and women of the Armed Forces currently 
serving in Iraq and Afghanistan and many more supporting them and 
engaging in other demanding activities on our behalf and their behalf 
around the world, we cannot afford not to enact this legislation.

For all these reasons, I would urge our colleagues to vote for 
cloture on the conference report and then to adopt the conference 
report itself.

I yield the floor.