---
---

# None
## `1b4eabf25bd24c95e6ffebfb2ebddbbd`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I am grateful for the statement of the 
distinguished chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, the 
Senator from Michigan, in support of this amendment. I believe it is 
noncontroversial. If there is one thing we ought to be able to agree 
upon in this debate, it is that it is not in our self-interest to leave 
Iraq as a failed state.

Where we diverge is where the Senator says we have to put more 
pressure on the politicians. I think we need to


do that, but not so much pressure that they simply collapse, which is 
my concern. That is why I believe what General Petraeus has said, which 
is that the situation in Iraq is hard but not hopeless. That gives me 
some hope that we can provide them the space they need in order to make 
those hard political decisions, which are extraordinarily difficult. If 
you think about it, the kind of decisions they are being called upon to 
make--for example, the sharing of oil revenue--I might suggest that is 
equivalent to the U.S. Congress trying to solve the Social Security 
insolvency problem. It is not easy for to us do. We have not done it 
yet. How in the world can we expect this new democracy, particularly 
under such stressful and difficult circumstances, to do things that we 
ourselves would find extraordinarily difficult to do? Talking about 
debaathification and things like that--the Baathist Party, under Saddam 
Hussein, was guilty of the most heinous sorts of crimes against the 
Shiite majority. This is a country traumatized from years of a police 
state under the boot heel of a terrible, blood-thirsty dictator like 
Saddam Hussein, where hundreds of thousands of people were killed by 
Saddam Hussein.


So it is not surprising that this traumatized nation is having 
challenges coming back from that and that they are slow to make 
decisions that we think they should be making. But the basic minimum is 
that they need the security in order to have the space in order to make 
those difficult decisions. That is what this new plan is, which is only 
in the early stages of being implemented by General Petraeus, designed 
to do.

What are the early reports? We are beginning to see some progress, 
particularly in Anbar Province in dealing with al-Qaida that up until 
recently basically had the run of the place. The tribal sheiks and 
others are coming forward and volunteering for the police and security 
forces. So I guess we are seeing the most hard-bitten cynics, but there 
are some signs that things are getting a little bit better in terms of 
the security context. It seems obvious that basic security has to 
prevail in order for the Iraqis, in exercising their new democratic 
government, to try to reconcile some of these terrible and difficult 
decisions.

I am delighted that the distinguished chairman of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee has said he will support this amendment. My hope is 
that this is one thing in the course of all of this fractious debate 
that we can unify behind.

I reserve the remainder of my time.