---
---

# None
## `1b53c8c64197abca898d2a3fb134b58d`
`Mr. DREIER — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume, 
and I rise to express my appreciation to my very good friend from 
Rochester, the distinguished Chair of the Committee on Rules (Ms. 
Slaughter), for yielding me the customary 30 minutes.

I have to say that this is somewhat unusual for me. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise in strong opposition to the rule, but I rise in even stronger 
opposition to the underlying legislation.

Here we go again, Mr. Speaker. These bills bring us to round three, 
round three of the Democratic leadership's Iraq charade.

First they brought up a bill that they knew the President would veto. 
Then they called for a veto override that they knew would fail. And 
today we are once again considering the same defeatist policy that 
failed in the first two rounds plus, plus, Mr. Speaker, a call for 
redeployment, basically withdrawal, within 90 days, to begin withdrawal 
within 90 days.

Mr. Speaker, they may think that they made progress, but in truth we 
have, in fact, gone backwards. Kicking the pullout vote a few months 
down the road is not a solution.

Mr. Speaker, the closing remarks that were just offered by the 
distinguished Chair of the Rules Committee, Ms. Slaughter, I think were 
right on target in describing the exact goal that we have here. We want 
to make sure that the American people are secure. We want to make sure 
that our troops can be successful. We want to make sure that our troops 
come home. And we want to make sure that the Iraqi people can live with 
dignity. The one thing that I will add with that statement that Ms. 
Slaughter just made, Mr. Speaker, is that not only simply live with 
dignity but with the kind of self-determination that led to a 70 
percent voter turnout in Iraq. So obviously we share the exact same 
goal that Ms. Slaughter just outlined.

But I am very, very troubled with the plans that we have before us. 
Frankly, Mr. Speaker, withdrawal that would begin in 90 days would 
undermine every single one of those goals to which Ms. Slaughter just 
referred. And this time, Mr. Speaker, it is not just the President's 
opposition that stands in their way of what it is that they are trying 
to do. Their own colleagues in the Senate have said that the House 
Democratic leadership's approach won't work on their side of the 
Capitol.



Senate Majority Leader Reid has criticized their punting strategy and 
acknowledged he has serious doubts that the House plan could actually 
get through the Senate.

Now, Mr. Speaker, this policy of defeat couldn't prevail in April. It 
won't prevail in May. So it would appear the idea is to wait and hope 
for the best in July.

Now, Mr. Speaker, the war in Iraq is not a game. Funding our troops 
who are in harm's way is not a game. These votes may make my friends on 
the other side of the aisle feel good, but they aren't doing anything 
to get our troops what they need to protect themselves and to fight 
effectively against terrorists around the world. Mr. Speaker, that's 
what matters here.

Again, going back to the words of the very distinguished Chair of the 
Committee on Rules, Ms. Slaughter, we want to make sure that we are 
secure at home. The way to do that is to ensure that the troops have 
what they need.

Mr. Speaker, we have an obligation to have a serious, substantive 
debate to supply our troops with the funds they need to do their job 
and to demonstrate to the American people that we are doing what is 
necessary to win in Iraq and to bring our troops home. But rather than 
fulfilling our duties as responsible legislators, Democratic leadership 
has simply scheduled one more empty political vote under yet another 
totally closed process. In fact, Mr. Speaker, the Democrats go so far 
as to have three closed rules, two of them on appropriations bills. 
Now, we will consider four appropriations bills this year, and all of 
them, Mr. Speaker, will have been under a completely closed process. 
And we all know, under both Democrats and Republicans, the tradition is 
that when it comes to wartime supplementals, they be considered under 
an open amendment process, but that's been thrown out the door.

This is a far cry, Mr. Speaker, from the open and fair Congress that 
was promised to the American people. Worse yet, buried in the 
appropriations bill is yet another totally closed rule, completely and 
prospectively shutting out Republicans 2 months from now.


And they even go so far as to totally deny us a motion to recommit, 
something that we never did in the 12 years that we were in the 
majority. And those were tame restrictions when compared to what they 
tried to do to the Senate.

It has been said by my very good friend from Massachusetts (Mr. 
McGovern) for whom I have the highest regard. I served with him for 
many years on the Rules Committee. I had the privilege for the past 8 
years of chairing the Rules Committee, and during that period of time, 
Mr. McGovern would regularly say that the Rules Committee is the place 
where democracy goes to die. Mr. Speaker, I think that it is only 
fitting that it is the rule which provides for this bill, for his bill, 
that we will use to pronounce the time of death. And while this tactic 
fails to achieve a legislative success here at home, it is already 
producing disastrous results in Iraq.

Ryan Crocker, the very highly regarded new ambassador to Iraq, I've 
heard a number of leading Democrats, a number of leading outspoken foes 
of what it is that we are doing in Iraq speak very highly of Ryan 
Crocker. Ambassador Crocker said last week in an interview with Morton 
Kondracke of The Roll Call, that the Iraqis are watching the Democratic 
leadership's political games play out in Congress. They hear the calls 
to abandon our mission, and it is taking away any will to negotiate 
among political factions and achieve an effective government capable of 
bringing about a political solution to the crisis.

Mr. Speaker, as Kondracke puts it in his piece, and I quote, ''What 
is going on in Congress is hurting Crocker's ability to get the sides 
in Iraq to make agreements with one another.'' He goes on to say, Mr. 
Speaker, ''It hardens the sectarian divisions. They think we are going 
to leave, and instead of reaching across lines and making agreements 
with the adversary, they are getting ready to go to the mat.''

Now, that is what Mr. Kondracke writes following his discussion with 
Ambassador Crocker, and it's very troubling.

What we do here and say here, Mr. Speaker, has consequences. And the 
report back from the new Ambassador to Iraq is that those consequences 
are not good. Those who would declare this war lost before the new 
strategy of, again, the very highly regarded General David Petraeus, 
who enjoyed unanimous support of the United States Senate, that means 
Democrats and Republicans on a recorded vote provided unanimous support 
confirming General David Petraeus. We are now basically, with what we 
are trying to do here with this effort, not even giving his new 
strategy a chance to succeed, and I believe that it is a huge mistake.

Now, Mr. Speaker, like everyone in this institution and people around 
this country, I read the newspapers, and I watch the news. I watch the 
pictures on television. And I know that the terrible images of violence 
that are broadcast every day permeate. And as we see those horrible 
pictures, I don't blame the American people for becoming extremely 
discouraged by what is being reported out of Iraq. And I will say that 
I am horrified by the pictures and the things that we see coming out of 
Iraq. But there is real and significant progress that is being achieved 
by our military.


Mr. Speaker, the Chicago Tribune editorialized just yesterday on one 
of the great success stories, that success story being the al Anbar 
province, which is the large province just to the west of Baghdad. Its 
capital city, Ramadi, was once described by the New York Times as the 
most dangerous city in Iraq and potentially the most dangerous city on 
the face of the earth. Today, Mr. Speaker, this former outpost for the 
insurgency is not only a secure city, it is a model for Sunni, Shia and 
American cooperation in the fight against the organization that was 
responsible for what happened on September 11, 2001, that being al 
Qaeda.

Mr. Speaker, the Chicago Tribune editorial said, ''al Qaeda's 
terrorists in Iraq now face a new enemy, Sunni tribesmen in the al 
Anbar province.'' Their editorial goes on, and I quote, ''These tribal 
leaders in the heart of the insurgency are now backing coalition and 
Iraqi forces against the terrorists.'' ''You want good news from 
Iraq,'' the Chicago Tribune editorial goes on to say, ''there it is, 
flashing in neon.''

Now, Mr. Speaker, this editorial goes on to quote the New York Times 
report saying, ''The progress has inspired an optimism in the American 
command that among some officials borders on giddiness.'' ''There are 
some people who would say we have won the war out here,'' one Marine 
officer said. I am simply quoting, I would say to my friend, the chair 
of the Rules Committee, not something that a Republican said, but the 
editorial that appeared just yesterday. I would encourage all of our 
Members to look at that editorial in the Chicago Tribune.

Now, Mr. Speaker, through the Joint Services stations that have been 
established, local Sunni police, Shia Army officers and U.S. military 
have worked hand in hand to take back the city and the province and 
drive al Qaeda out. With the full support and cooperation of the local 
Sunni leaders, the Shia Army has earned the confidence of the local 
population. Through their alliance, they are achieving our objective 
for the entire country, peace sustained by the Iraqis themselves 
through national unity.

Mr. Speaker, General Petraeus came here, as we all know, just 2 weeks 
ago to provide Members of the House of Representatives with a 
classified briefing on Iraq. Unfortunately, the Speaker of the House, 
Ms. Pelosi, was unable to attend that briefing, but for those of us who 
were there, we were given a realistic picture from General Petraeus of 
what was taking place. He did not, and I don't know all of the Members 
who were there, Mr. Speaker, but I will say, General Petraeus did not 
sugarcoat the tremendous challenges that lie ahead in this war in Iraq. 
But, Mr. Speaker, he also described tremendous successes, such as this 
great success that I just reported on in Ramadi, what was one of the 
most dangerous cities on the face of the Earth and has now been 
stabilized in the al Anbar province.

General Petraeus described the Sunni Arabs who have turned against al 
Qaeda and have joined the Iraqi Security Forces. Our American and Iraqi 
forces have succeeded in detaining a number of key network leaders, 
getting critical intelligence on how various elements of al Qaeda 
operate in Iraq, taking apart a car bomb network that killed 650 
citizens in Baghdad and destroying several significant car bomb 
factories. These are the kinds of joint efforts that are taking place 
at this very moment in Iraq, Mr. Speaker.

Now, Mr. Speaker, General Petraeus has spoken publically about these 
successes, about the reduction in sectarian murders in Baghdad by two-
thirds so far this year, about the tripling of seizures of weapons 
cashes this year, about the revival of markets and the return of 
displaced families to neighborhoods and cities that were previously 
totally uninhabitable because of violence. Mr. Speaker, these success 
stories are not meant to paint a rosy picture of Iraq. And I will say 
that again, Mr. Speaker. I'm not attempting to sugarcoat the situation 
in Iraq. I'm not attempting to paint a rosy picture of what is taking 
place in Iraq. I know how horrendous and what a difficult situation 
this is.

We all know the enormous challenges that our military still faces 
there and will continue to face for some time to come, not just to be 
solved by September; it will extend longer than that, we all know that. 
The other night I was with Ambassador John Negroponte who reminded me 
of the public statement that he made just as he left his ambassadorial 
post in Baghdad; he said it would be at least 5 years. So we all know 
that this battle and this struggle is going to continue.

But what these successes do demonstrate very, very clearly is that we 
have not lost this war. They demonstrate that our men and women, when 
they have the necessary resources, can achieve victory. We must give 
General Petraeus adequate time and adequate resources to build upon 
these successes and make his new strategy work. Setting a day for 
defeat, whether it is today, next week or at the end of July or 
September is simply not an acceptable policy. Rationing funding for our 
troops is not an acceptable policy.

Now, Mr. Speaker, I offered two amendments yesterday in the Rules 
Committee that would have stricken two of the most egregious elements 
of


this legislation. First, I proposed to remove the July cutoff date for 
the troops' funding. Our generals in the field have said that this 
limitation ties their hands and keeps them from doing even their near-
term planning, which is absolutely essential if the successes that we 
have seen are going to continue. Wars aren't won in 2-month increments, 
and military victories aren't achieved by congressional decree.

Now, Mr. Speaker, my second amendment would eliminate the requirement 
that the President make his reports to Congress on the Internet. Even 
in its unclassified form, this highly sensitive information would 
provide information to our enemies and the enemies of the Iraqi people. 
It would provide them with their blueprint for victory. The notion of 
providing this report from the President to the Congress, not in any 
kind of confidential way but on the Internet, is absolutely outrageous. 
There is no justifiable reason for us to give the people who are 
wanting to kill us and are responsible for the violence in Iraq this 
kind of information.

Now, Mr. Speaker, unfortunately, neither of the amendments that I 
offered was made in order. They would have provided an opportunity to 
consider a troop funding bill that would actually be enacted and would 
actually fund the troops rather than simply staging one more 
meaningless vote allowing Members to posture.

Now, Mr. Speaker, I understand very well, having been in the majority 
for a while, I understand that the Democratic leadership is in a very 
tough spot. They want to be able to say that they are funding the 
troops. At the same time, they have to accommodate their Members who 
want to get out yesterday. They want to get out immediately, regardless 
of the consequences. So their political situation is to schedule vote 
after meaningless vote. They get their weekly opportunity, Mr. Speaker, 
to say, ''I support the troops,'' out of one side of their mouth, and 
''Let's retreat'' and get out immediately out of the other side of 
their mouth.



But, Mr. Speaker, our troops and the American people deserve more 
than political gimmicks. We must stop playing dangerous games with the 
lives of the American people, our men and women in uniform, and the 
Iraqi people who have been struggling for freedom. We must get our 
troops the funding that they need and give our military commanders the 
means to win and to do what we all want, Mr. Speaker, to bring our 
troops home.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.