---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `1b582322dbaf97621de242cee8c29f19`
`Mr. TESTER — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. TESTER. Madam President, I rise today to express my support for 
the conference report on the emergency supplemental appropriations bill 
we passed early this afternoon. This bill needs to be signed by the 
President. It will do a lot of good for a lot of people in this great 
country. It will not only help our troops serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, but also millions of Americans who have suffered over the 
last year due to drought and the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.

This bill has nearly $7 billion for cleanup and recovery on the gulf 
coast, which is, 18 months later, still dealing with the aftermath of 
Hurricane Katrina. There is $1.8 billion for veterans health care in 
this supplemental, to give our veterans the care they deserve when they 
return from serving our Nation. It contains $3.5 billion for 
agricultural assistance, assistance that is desperately needed. I have 
heard from several farmers in Montana about the drought and how it has 
devastated their farms and how they are barely hanging on.

Tom Lightner, a farmer and rancher from north of Choteau, MT, grows


wheat, barley, and alfalfa, and he used to run some cattle. But the 
continuing drought has hurt his operation. The reservoir near his 
operation, Bynum Reservoir, has been almost empty for the past 5 years 
because of this drought, and in 2005 Tom had to sell off his 120 head 
of cattle he used to run on his ranch. In February of this year, Tom 
wrote me this letter. What it says is:




 I am writing to you in need of your assistance. I own and 


 operate a small farm and ranch north of Choteau. Because of 


 the continuing drought conditions in this area, making it 


 from one year to the next has been a real challenge. In my 


 present circumstances, it may become impossible [to stay in 


 business].


Now Tom is in danger of losing his crop insurance and is looking for 
help from me, and from us, and from the President, to help him through 
these difficult times.

Another farmer in Montana, from Dagmar, wrote about conditions last 
year during the growing season. He writes that it is a foggy morning, 
no meaningful precipitation, but it cooled down some, which is good 
news in the heat of summer with little moisture. But the damage was 
done. Some of the late seeding re-crop had the top half of the head 
burnt right off.

What does that mean, in a nutshell? He is not going to cut much of a 
crop and it is not going to have much quality when he does get it in 
the bin. What does that mean in reality? That means no money to pay 
expenses, to pay for insurance, to pay for heating, to pay for seeding 
costs; no money to buy groceries, to pay that operating loan or 
mortgage loan.

That is why it is so critically important that the President of the 
United States sign this supplemental. Farmers and ranchers in Montana 
and throughout this country have suffered long enough. They have 
dedicated their lives to feeding the world, and it is the very least we 
can do to provide them with the assistance they need to keep going.

Before I finish, I want to talk a little bit about our great men and 
women who are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. They have done 
everything we have asked and they have done it very well. This 
supplemental bill also gives our troops all the funding they need, and 
more, to meet the needs not addressed by the President's request. It 
provides a plan to get our troops out of the Middle East in this civil 
war they find themselves engaged in, and back to fighting the real war, 
the war on terrorism.

It sets a goal, not a deadline, of being out of Iraq by the spring of 
2008. But it allows our troops to continue to train the Iraqi security 
forces, to conduct operations against terrorist groups, and to protect 
United States assets. This is hardly handcuffing the President of this 
country. This is a responsible plan to continue our fight against 
terrorism while getting our troops out of this Iraqi civil war.

For these reasons, I urge the President of the United States to sign 
this emergency supplemental into law. No more excuses, sign the 
supplemental. Our troops, our farmers, the people of this country, 
deserve no less.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.