# None
## `1b6efccebe1ed1aa02127aecca5001d7`
`Mr. BOND â€” 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I appreciate the chance to talk about the 
amendment before us and some of the other amendments. These amendments 
generally are intended to change our military policies, our presence in 
Iraq, and essentially to begin, one way or the other, a politically 
staged withdrawal from Iraq. We are talking about how we are concerned 
about and support the troops. Do you know what I hear from the troops? 
I have been there, I have talked to them, and I have heard from them at 
home. The one thing they say is: We are over here risking our lives. We 
are fighting a mission which we believe is succeeding. We are making 
progress. The last thing we want is Congress to declare a military end 
or take over the management of the war from our commanders. Time after 
time, they have told me: We have made too many contributions and 
sacrifices to walk away now and see all we have done go for naught. I 
will talk about going for naught later on. But the point is that, yes, 
America has made contributions, large-dollar sums of contributions. But 
families who have lost loved ones, who have had them maimed, and their 
comrades-in-arms know the sacrifices these men and women have made. The 
one thing they implore us to do is not to see these sacrifices be made 
in vain.

Well, we have seen a lot of negative stories. The media has more than 
adequately covered those. So people are concerned about what is going 
on in Iraq. We ought to be concerned. But we are not hearing the 
stories about what is positive, about the successes of this new 
strategy, the Petraeus strategy.

I was in Ramadi and Al Anbar 2 months ago and traveling elsewhere, 
and I found some amazing things. The new counterinsurgency strategy, 
with the cooperation of the Sunni sheiks who are now working with our 
military, has really essentially driven al-Qaida out of Ramadi, and 
they are driving them out of the Al Anbar Province. Make no mistake, 
when we heard ''civil war, civil war,'' the people over there--the 
marines, the soldiers--know they are fighting for and looking for al-
Qaida. Al-Qaida is the driving force that is keeping it stirred up, and 
they are on the mission to search and destroy al-Qaida. Al-Qaida is 
there big time.

But we have been hearing lots of arguments now in favor of--and they 
are heartfelt arguments and people believe them--it is time for 
retreat; it is time to cut back; it is time to withdraw. The cost of 
lives and treasure is too high. The war has not been properly managed. 
The war cannot be won.

Over the last several weeks on break, when I was traveling, I had the 
opportunity to read ''Team of Rivals'' about Abraham Lincoln and the 
conduct of the Civil War. Over a century and a half ago, many of these 
same arguments were offered abundantly as reasons for President Lincoln 
to accept defeat of the Civil War, and they are now being made for 
President Bush to accept defeat in Iraq. As noted in historian Shelby 
Foote's ''The Civil War: A Narrative,'' Members of Congress playing 
general urged the troops to abandon the cause. That great Ohio 
Representative Clement Vallandigham, leader of the Copperhead 
Democrats, campaigned for office by calling upon soldiers to desert. He 
declared the South was invincible.


As noted in passages in ''The Civil War,'' in late 1862, ''Senate 
Republicans caucused and, with only a single dissenting vote, demanded 
that Lincoln dismiss Secretary of State Seward'' because they thought 
he was responsible for the conduct of the war.

Republican Leader Thurlow Weed observed that ''the people are wild 
for peace. . . . Lincoln's election is an impossibility.'' They were 
after him in


full force. I don't need to elaborate on the enormity of the Civil War, 
and I don't need to explain what would have happened had Lincoln 
relented to those politically popular sentiments at the time.

Lincoln chose to fight a bloody and unpopular war because he believed 
the enemy had to be defeated. Despite being reviled for staying the 
course, President Lincoln did stay the course. Unfortunately, too many 
of my colleagues today don't seem to be willing to see this one 
through. Here we are again, barely weeks into the full implementation 
of General Petraeus's surge, and the naysayers continue to argue for 
defeat. It was only a few months ago this body had been calling for and 
looking for a new strategy, which I believed we must have, which 
changed the unsuccessful strategy we had, which argued for the Baker-
Hamilton report, which said in essence you have to have a new strategy, 
you cannot precipitously withdraw. We came forward and General Petraeus 
drafted a counterinsurgency strategy. That is what he told us he was 
going to do, supported by the surge. Now people want to pull the rug 
out from under him. He said at least give him until September to see if 
this new counterinsurgency strategy works.

They are bringing in American soldiers and marines to go in with 
Iraqi security forces, Iraqi Army, Iraqi police, embedded with them in 
command centers, barracks; they stay there, live among the people they 
are protecting, and they have cleaned out the areas. They have cleaned 
out Ramadi. Two months ago, four Members of Congress walked through 
downtown Ramadi, which had been an al-Qaida command center. Al-Qaida 
has been driven out, but naysayers continue to argue for defeat.

Now, there may be some short-term political benefits for those 
calling for withdrawal. There is popular sentiment for it. Some people 
honestly believe that. But let me quote 1LT Pete Hegseth, an Iraq war 
veteran and director of Vets for Freedom:




 Iraq today is the front line of global jihad being waged 


 against America and its allies. Both Osama bin Laden and 


 Ayman al-Zawahiri have said so.


He is correct. Our intelligence services said so. They warned us in 
January in an open intelligence hearing that if we withdrew on a 
political timetable and took our troops out without making sure that 
the Iraqi security forces were adequate, there would be chaos. There 
would be chaos and greatly increased killings among Sunni and Shia. Al-
Qaida would be able to establish a safe haven in which to launch 
recruitment, training, command and control, and weapons of mass 
destruction development. The violence and chaos in Iraq would likely 
bring in coreligionists from other countries of the region as they went 
in to protect their fellow religionists. We could have a regionwide 
civil war, Shia versus Sunni.

That is what will happen if we withdraw. Most of us concede there was 
poor management and costly mistakes were made in the post-invasion 
phase in Iraq. But they are not compelling reasons for why we should 
retreat and, like all mistakes, we should learn from them and not go 
back and commit them again by drawing down forces to the point where we 
don't have adequate troops to work with the Iraqi security forces.

Washington Post columnist Michael Gerson recently pointed out that 
those who are calling for retreat are not learning from previous 
mistakes but repeating them. Gerson writes:




 History seems to be settling on some criticisms of the 


 early conduct of the Iraq war. On the theory that America 


 could liberate and leave . . . force levels were reduced too 


 early . . . security responsibilities were transferred to 


 Iraqis before they were ready, and planning for future 


 challenges was unrealistic.



 And now Democrats running for President have thought deeply 


 and produced their own Iraq policy: They want to cut force 


 levels too early and transfer responsibility to Iraqis before 


 they are ready, and they offer no plan to deal with the chaos 


 that would result six months down the road. In essential 


 outline, they have chosen to duplicate the early mistakes of 


 an administration they hold in contempt.


I agree with Gerson, we should not make those mistakes. We must 
fulfill the mission that over 3,600 brave men and women have made the 
ultimate sacrifice for.

To quote a Missouri guardsman, COL Bob Leeker, who just returned from 
commanding the 507th Air Expeditionary Group in Iraq:




 I only hope that the American people will give us the time. 


 The American people must understand that this is not only 


 about Iraq, it is a fight against Muslim fanaticism, Muslim 


 extremists. If we pull out in the near term, or at the wrong 


 time, there will be an incredible amount of blood running 


 throughout Iraq, and the blood and sweat that I and my 


 brethren in arms have already given will be for nought.


These are compelling words. They ought not to be taken lightly. Not 
only is the security and safety of our Nation and allies at stake, but 
so too is our credibility.

Critics frequently claim the war has damaged the United States image 
and credibility throughout the world. Yet these same critics ignore 
what irreparable harm would be done were we to leave this mission 
unfilled. If you think our mission has made our image and reputation 
plummet, wait and watch it nosedive after we leave Iraq before 
finishing the job. Think about the millions of Iraqi citizens and 
leaders who have taken a stand against terrorism, who have committed to 
work with us, to rebuild their country, to fight against the forces of 
radical Islamists and terrorists. What are we to say to the millions of 
Iraqis who trusted Americans and believed we would stay until the 
mission was completed? We would, regrettably, see them slaughtered by 
terrorists as a result of our abandoning them before they were able to 
stand on their own.

What did we say to the hundreds of thousands of South Vietnamese or 
millions of Cambodians who trusted America and were slaughtered after 
Congress dictated that we abandon them?

History has taught us when American abandons its commitment to 
spreading liberty and freedom, we are not the only ones who suffer. 
Rest assured, it will come back to harm us in our own homeland.

Just as our intelligence community has warned and terrorist leaders 
have stated, Iraq will become a base and safe haven from which to plan 
and launch future attacks.

Let me be clear, the enemy in Iraq consists of murderous, barbaric 
terrorists. They are not ''insurgents'' or ''jihadists.'' Let's get 
terms straight because we fall into the trap of taking their terms. 
Jihad in the Muslim religion is the individual journey to moral 
improvement. It has been misrepresented to be a philosophy that permits 
encouraging the killing of innocents, the slaughter of fellow Muslims, 
the slaughter of women and children. The real Arabic term for that is 
hirabah. The people who commit it are not insurgents or jihadists, but 
mufsidoon. These people are condemned to live with Satan because they 
have committed blasphemy. These are the people we are fighting. It is 
not a civil war. They are the people who violate the tenets of Islam. 
They try to hijack it, try to claim the Islamic banner; but they are 
not practicing the religion of the Prophet Mohammed.

Well, there is another reason these people want to sanitize the 
description we use of them. Calling them insurgents implies they have 
the support of the local population. But the local population is being 
victimized, killed, evicted from their homes, or beheaded by the so-
called insurgents. That is why the Sunni sheikhs in al-Anbar are 
working with us. They have lived under al-Qaida. They want an end to 
the terror. That is why they are helping us to identify who they are, 
where the weapons caches are, and where the IEDs are hidden. They are 
sending in young Sunnis to sign up. They want to be free of the 
terrorists.

Precipitous withdrawal would be a rallying cry for terrorists and al-
Qaida around the world. It would invite further aggression and attacks 
from the barbarians. It would be a total loss of freedom, liberty, and 
peace, and would be a victory for totalitarianism, terrorism, and 
treachery.

In a recent book by J. Michael Waller, a scholar at the Institute of 
World Politics, he defined terrorism as:




 A form of political and psychological warfare; it is 


 protracted, high intensity propaganda aimed more at the 


 hearts of the public and the minds of decisionmakers and not 


 at the physical victims.


By Waller's definition and what I have heard from some people in this 
body and the media, the terrorists are


certainly hitting their targets. Our words should inspire our troops 
and the millions of Iraqi citizens who actually trust that Americans 
will not embrace defeat and leave them. Instead, the words of the 
retreat-and-defeat crowd inspire al-Qaida and the murderous terrorists 
attempting to ignite sectarian strife.

Now is not the time to pull out when we are seeing encouraging signs 
in places where the surge has been implemented. Al-Anbar Province shows 
tremendous signs of progress. Even the New York Times' Michael Gordon 
reported last Friday how young American soldiers are executing General 
Petraeus's new strategy on the ground, and how they are fighting and 
defeating al-Qaida.

Here is a quote from Frederick Kagan, a resident scholar at AEI:




 Al-Qaida's operations in Baghdad--its bombings, 


 kidnappings, resupply activities, movement of foreign 


 fighters, and financing--depend on its ability to move people 


 and goods around the rural outskirts of the capital as well 


 as in the city. Petraeus and Odierno, therefore, are 


 conducting simultaneous operations in many places in the 


 Baghdad belt: Fallujah and Baquba, Mahmudiya, Arab Jabour, 


 Salman Pak, the southern shores of Lake Tharthar, Karma, 


 Tarmiya, and so on. By attacking all of these bases at once, 


 coalition forces will gravely complicate the enemy's movement 


 from place to place, as well as his ability to establish new 


 bases and safe havens. At the same time, U.S. and Iraqi 


 forces have already disrupted al-Qaida's major bases and are 


 working to prevent the enemy from taking refuge in the city. 


 U.S. forces are also aggressively targeting Shia death squad 


 leaders and helping Iraqi forces operating against the Shia 


 militias.


Why has this Senate chosen to debate timelines, restrictions, and 
retreat despite encouraging signs that the surge is working, despite 
the fact that this new strategy has only been in place fully for barely 
a month, and despite the fact that those who want to withdraw and 
retreat have failed to offer any constructive alternatives on how they 
would deal with a chaos that would ensue from their retreat? It is a 
huge disappointment that this debate is not about how we can achieve 
victory, but how quickly can we cede defeat.

This has become a political debate and the focus of our national 
security has been sidetracked. We should not pass legislation that 
provides our enemy a clear path to victory--a victory which, sadly, 
many in this body are ready to award al-Qaida, without ever having 
given the surge a fighting chance. The surge is indeed the best hope we 
have for establishing safety and stability in the area, which will 
allow the Iraqi security forces to take over and give the Iraqi 
Government the space to develop a workable government that can rule 
their country.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.