---
---

# None
## `1b7eb289e048d93ca683fd14f3c4c1b9`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, I just want to thank you, definitely 
fresh out of the State legislature, for coming to this floor. I served 
in the legislature myself, and I can tell you that in Florida we enjoy 
the Federal assistance that is there.

Some folks, Mr. Speaker, speak of Medicare as socialized medicine. If 
you try to do away with Medicare right now and have new and great ideas 
that would limit access to clinics and what have you, I think you would 
have an uprising in this country as we look at providing better 
healthcare.

If I can, we came to the floor tonight, and I have my Iraq notebook 
with me, and I want to thank not only staff but the Democratic 
leadership for taking a forward lean, as we have done since we have 
been here in the control of the House, and the American people provided 
us with an opportunity to lead, to move this country in a new 
direction, and also move this issue of Iraq in a new direction. I just 
want to talk a little bit about the numbers, and I want this to sink 
in, because I want Members to know exactly what we are doing.

We have to create and we have to be about a major paradigm shift, I 
would say slash ''new direction,'' as it relates to Iraq. We know that 
the President has executive authority and he can veto. We know that the 
legislature, and when we say legislature, I started talking about 
States, I started talking about legislature, I would say the Congress, 
the legislative branch of government has the responsibility of policy 
and making sure that we pass legislation that will be helpful.

During the 4th of July break, which was a wonderful thing, you have 
an opportunity to go back to your districts and you have an opportunity 
to go to places where you can learn more, I actually went to Norfolk, 
Virginia, to the Naval facility there and spoke to a number of sailors 
and some marines and others that have been deployed before. I was there 
on a destroyer and also a submarine and also an amphibious vessel that 
moved marines into a forward area and had an opportunity to talk to a 
number of individuals over that weekend.

I left with the impression, Mr. Murphy, of them saying, if you want 
to help the troops, then stand up for us in the Congress and making 
sure we bring some sense to what we are doing.

Now, some of the bloodiest weekends in Iraq took place during the 4th 
of July break, and a number of Iraqis have lost their lives and they 
have a number of civil war conflicts that are going on there. Also a 
number of marines, soldiers and others, even civilians, lost their 
lives.

I think it is important as we look at this and we go through a 
forward lean, I just want to capture this moment from the Congressional 
Research Service, Mr. Speaker, the nonpartisan Congressional Research 
Service, which is a nonpartisan organization within the Congress. These 
are individuals that are Ph.D.'s and those that count the numbers and 
really give the Americans an objective view of what the real picture 
is.

Let's talk about cost here for a minute. You heard Mr. Pallone, the 
Chair of a subcommittee dealing with the children's health program, say 
over 5 years it would take $50 billion to be able to provide healthcare 
for children. Let's look at these numbers.

Per year in Iraq, and this is the chart that I have here, $120 
billion a year. I am going to even further break that down to $10 
billion a month and change. These are not my numbers. This is the 
Congressional Research Service numbers. Per week, $2.3 billion a week 
in Iraq. $2.3 billion. This is just Iraq. We are not talking about 
Afghanistan. Per day, $329 million and change. I am not even giving you 
the change. Per hour, $13 million. That is every hour in Iraq, $13 
million.

Think about what we can do here domestically. I am talking to the 
mayors of our cities and our towns. I am talking to commissioners that 
would like to resolve some issues and want some sort of Federal 
assistance in doing that. I am talking to the citizen that is wondering 
why something is shut down in their community for a lack of funding.

Per minute, $228,000. That is per minute. $228,000. That is more than 
many Americans make in 5 years, Mr. Murphy, a minute. That is what is 
happening in Iraq right now. Per second, $3,816. Some may say $4,000 a 
second.

You look at the Forbes' richest, most wealthy Americans, they are not 
even doing that. You have companies that wish they could make $3,816 a 
second. This makes Oprah, her income, look very small. This makes some 
of the new people that are there, the President or the used-to-be 
chairman of Microsoft, look very small when you look at these numbers. 
But you have to look at this issue for what it is. These are the 
dollars that we are spending.

Now, who is standing in front of us and making new policy changes 
here? I think it is important, and I think we are going to have a gut 
check here, and I want to make sure that Americans know exactly and the 
Members know. Because many Members, they go back home and they say, I 
did not quite understand that. I am sorry. It went over my head. I 
didn't understand what happened, when a constituent may walk up to 
them.

This week in the House we will have an opportunity to reaffirm our 
support and move this Iraq debate in a new direction. Responsible 
redeployment of our troops. We talk about responsible redeployment. We 
are talking about a bill that Chairman Ike Skelton is going to bring to 
this floor tomorrow, or sometime this week, where Democrats and 
Republicans will have an opportunity on the record to vote once again 
as it relates to redeployment.

The Responsible Redeployment Act, H.R. 2956. It requires the 
responsible redeployment of U.S. troops beginning within 120 days of 
enacting and ending by April 1st, 2008. I think it is important that 
everyone understands that a supermajority, 70 percent, a supermajority 
of Americans believe that we should be out of Iraq.

It requires the President to publicly justify the post-deployment 
missions for the U.S. military in Iraq with a minimum number of troops 
necessary to carry out those missions. This is not saying that we are 
going to take all of the troops out of Iraq, but what it is saying is 
those troops that are in harm's way, doing the door-to-door, doing all 
of these things in the middle of a civil war that Iraqi troops should 
be responsible for, there are a number of people that are saying, you 
know, they are not quite ready.

But, meanwhile, back at the ranch, I know every Sunday on CNN they 
have a report talking about what happened in Iraq that week. I think I 
have seen too many flag-draped coffins. I think I have talked to too 
many spouses and family members that are saying, what are you going to 
do and how are you going to do it and how are you going to stand up?

Chairman Ike Skelton is beyond this. He is what one may say is an 
individual that solely has the troops in his heart and in his mind. And 
this will be a product of not only him, but many Members of Congress. 
So Members will get an opportunity to vote.



Now, Mr. Murphy, before I yield to you, I think it is important that 
we show who is standing in the schoolhouse door here. I would ask for 
not only the Members, but also the American people to go to the White 
House website if you want some information.

Members of the Republican minority, thanks to the American people, on 
March 29 of 2007, stood with the President after we moved the bill 
through this Congress that would move the policy as it relates to Iraq 
in a new direction. It would bring more accountability as it relates to 
profiteering, more accountability as it relates to how our troops are 
being deployed based on what the President says that he thinks is 
right. It is bringing democracy to it.


When we passed that bill, it passed both the House and Senate, I can 
say that the Democratic majority voted in the affirmative with a few 
Republicans, and it went to the White House. And before that bill could 
be carried to the White House, the President said that he would veto 
it.

I want you to take a look at this picture here, because I think it is 
very very important. Pictures speak 1,000 words. You have all 
Republicans, the minority, that are standing behind the President 
saying stand with the President and we will not allow the President to 
be overridden, for there to be an override of his veto.

I think it is important for us to pay very close attention to it, 
because my message to those that were on the steps of the White House, 
who met with the President, who had some sort of discussion with the 
President, that have said ''we are going to make sure that the 
President's will is not overridden,'' well, I want to ask, how many 
times will the Republican minority go down and stand with the President 
in front of the will of the American people?

That is going to happen this week, Mr. Speaker, and I am glad that 
Speaker
Nancy Pelosi has said we are willing to take the fight on 
behalf of the American people to the executive branch and to those 
Members of Congress who believe that we should be ''staying the 
course'' or continuing to do the same thing expecting different 
results.

There are a lot of things that are going on in Iraq that are not in 
the control of the American Congress and executive branch and those 
that they elected to represent them here in Washington, DC. But what we 
do have control over as it relates to the policy and as it relates to 
the will of the American people and the troops. One person said if you 
want to help the troops, get us out of Iraq. If you want to help the 
troops.

Mr. Ryan and I in the 108th and 109th Congress heard all kinds of 
speeches here on this floor, Mr. Murphy, Members saying ''I support the 
troops.'' ''No, I support the troops more than you.'' ''No, let me take 
my shirt. Let me show you a tattoo I have on my shoulder saying I 
support the troops.''

That is not what it is about. It is about policy. It is about manning 
up and womaning up and leadering up and standing up on behalf of these 
men and women that are in harm's way.



These are real families. We have to treat this issue as it relates to 
redeployment of troops in Iraq as though our children or our nephew or 
our cousin or our husband or wife, what have you, are in harm's way as 
we speak. Those that have a dot.mil address behind their e-mail address 
that are e-mailing us and are asking us to be leaders, I am glad that 
this House is moving in the direction, and the Senate is moving in the 
direction, and I commend those Senators that have come to the side of 
the American people saying enough is enough. The President can burn all 
kind of Federal jet fuel and fly throughout the country. He was in 
Cleveland talking about what we need to do. Enough is enough. The 
bottom line is that folks have to come to grips that this is a 
democracy.

The White House is under some sort of impression, I want to say 
impression. They believe if they were to come out at a press 
conference, if the President were to say the rain doesn't fall from the 
sky, it comes up from the ground to the sky, they believe many 
Americans would actually look outside to see if that is true. We know 
what is right and what is wrong. What is wrong is the fact that we can 
no longer stand idly by and let this happen.

The Democratic Congress has tried to make this happen. We need 
Republican support. We need the American people to call their 
Republican representative and say enough with this partisan stuff, 
let's move for our young men and women in harm's way.

I yield to Mr. Ryan.