---
---

# IN MEMORY OF PRIVATE FIRST CLASS CHAD COLEMAN
## `1b958cb8d5f34d08b9223aea4c562de7`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 22 September 2010`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. Madam Speaker, it is with honor and great sorrow 
that I rise on this occasion tonight to pay tribute and to tell 
everyone about Private First Class Chad Coleman, who heeded his 
Nation's call of duty by joining the Army in October of 2008 after 
attending Newnan High School in my home State of Georgia. On August 27, 
2010, he made the ultimate sacrifice, proudly serving his country in 
Afghanistan as a member of the 101st Airborne Division.

Growing up in Wisconsin, Chad moved to Newnan, Georgia, with his 
parents, Brian and Shanon Coleman, when he was 16. After high school, 
Chad entered basic training at Fort Knox and completed advanced 
training at Fort Campbell, becoming a cavalry scout. He was deployed to 
Afghanistan as part of the 33rd Cavalry Regiment of the 101st Airborne 
Division.

For anyone who knew Chad as a young boy, it came as no surprise to 
them that he would grow up into a fine soldier. As a boy, he was 
compassionate and caring and showed an interest in serving his country 
at an early age. His grandmother, Mary Ann Coleman, recalls him 
building large forts out of Lincoln Logs and how he would maneuver the 
plastic Army soldiers that he bought at the Dollar Store in and out of 
the forts that he had built.

As a teenager, Chad spent time at the local VFW hall. He would play 
cards with the veterans and listen to their stories. But most of all, 
he was a friend to the distinguished men and women who had served their 
country so bravely before him.

The only thing that came close to Chad's love for his country was his 
love for his family and friends. He never failed to say, ''I love 
you,'' his grandmother said. Hugs and kisses were his trademark. While 
his family will continue to miss him every day, they know he was 
fulfilling a lifelong dream.

Private First Class Coleman was always known to say that he loved the 
uniform and that he was so proud to be serving his country. A few weeks 
ago, this country lost a true hero. I know that his fellow soldiers, 
his country, and especially his family will miss him greatly.

I am proud to pay tribute to such a fine grandson, son, patriot, and 
soldier.
