---
---

# NEW IRAQ STRATEGY
## `1bae9cc583251a7dd15336355e705002`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, let me first of all say thank you to 
Senator Collins for her work and for her seeking a solution to Iraq and 
joining with the other cosponsors of this legislation. As is so often 
the case, Susan Collins is part of a group of people in the Senate who 
try to find a solution to the problems our Nation faces. So I 
appreciate her comments, and I appreciate her being a cosponsor of this 
legislation as well.

I rise tonight in this period of morning business to speak in support 
of amendment No. 2063, which is the amendment to implement the 
recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. I wish to say first of all 
that this is probably the most bipartisan amendment we have seen to 
deal with Iraq. I thank Senator Alexander for his help and his 
leadership in terms of getting this legislation drafted. It is 
legislation we have been working on for a long period of time with 
members of the Baker-Hamilton Commission, with Secretary Baker and Lee 
Hamilton, and we will refer to them later on.

I wish to say a particular thanks to my colleagues who have joined 
with us in this effort, including Senator Pryor of Arkansas, Senator 
Casey, Senator Lincoln, Senator Nelson of Florida, Senator Landrieu, 
and Senator McCaskill, all of whom on this side of the aisle have shown 
great leadership in trying to find a new way forward in Iraq.

I also thank my Republican colleagues, including Senator Lamar 
Alexander, who has worked tirelessly on this effort for the last 
several months, as well as Senator Bennett, Senator Gregg, Senator 
Collins, Senator Sununu, and Senator Domenici for being a part of this 
effort, wherein 13 Members of the Senate have come together and have 
said that if we deal with what is the most difficult national issue we 
face today--and that is the war in Iraq and foreign policy in the 
Middle East--and how it is that we move forward to try to put together 
the Humpty Dumpty that has been created in that part of the world, we 
are going to have to do it in a bipartisan way. It is going to require 
Democrats and Republicans understanding that we need a new way forward 
in Iraq.

Despite all of the debate and rhetoric we have heard on the floor of 
the Senate and around the country on the issue of Iraq, the truth is 
that there was only one group that has taken a substantive, in-depth, 
coherent look at the problem in Iraq and throughout the Middle East and 
has created a roadmap on how to salvage stability in Iraq and try to do 
our best to create peace in the Middle East. That is the Iraq Study 
Group, chaired by Lee Hamilton and Jim Baker, along with distinguished 
Americans who served on that Commission for the last year. Their report 
came out in December, not long ago. It was the only comprehensive way 
forward that has been laid out in a bipartisan way since we began this 
effort in Iraq now many years ago.

Madam President, before I speak more about my amendment, I want to 
say thank you to Senator Levin and Senator Warner, and others on the 
Armed Services Committee, who worked so hard in bringing the Defense 
authorization bill to the floor. I admire Senator Levin and the members 
of the committee and the thoughtful leadership they bring to us on 
national security issues. I have been proud to support Senator Levin in 
his call for a change in the policy in Iraq. He recognized long ago 
that we need to chart a new course in our Iraq war policy. Now is the 
time. This is the place. This is the week, and next week, when we will 
hopefully craft that policy. I share Senator Levin's goal, which is 
peace and stability in the Middle East and the safe return home of our 
troops who are now in harm's way.

As we debate this issue, I hope we will keep in mind the sacrifices 
our soldiers and airmen and sailors and marines are making on the 
ground today in Iraq. We must be ever mindful that on these fundamental 
issues of war and peace there ought to be an American way forward. That 
American way forward should not be a Democratic, a Republican, or an 
Independent way forward; it ought to be an American way forward because 
we have over 150,000 of our men and women in uniform in harm's way 
tonight as we debate this issue on the Senate floor.

It is a personal issue. When we think about what has happened to the 
men and women who have died in this war in Iraq, we should all think 
about the weight we have on our shoulders because it is a significant 
weight, but it pales in comparison to the weight and the sacrifice we 
ask our men and women in uniform to bear every day in the fields of 
Iraq and Afghanistan. So it is to them, who are serving, that we owe 
the best policy we can develop in the Senate.

In Iraq, 3,601 Americans have been killed since the beginning of the 
war. All of us who have gone to Walter Reed and other hospitals and 
visited with the brave men and women who have come home without arms 
and legs, those who have suffered from brain injuries and other kinds 
of injuries that will stay with them for the rest of their lives--there 
are almost 27,000 of them who have suffered those kinds of wounds in 
Iraq. From my State of Colorado, we have 51 people who have been killed 
in Iraq since the beginning of the war. We have another 443 who have 
been wounded. Just from Fort Carson alone, which is the home of many of 
our soldiers who served in Iraq, we have had 215 casualties from Fort 
Carson in El Paso County.

It is to these men and women that we have a solemn obligation to make 
sure we develop the kind of policy they deserve to have as they fight 
on behalf of a mission for the United States of America. They deserve a 
policy that changes their role in Iraq from combat to a much more 
limited role, focused on training and on equipping the Iraqi forces. 
They deserve a policy that includes a major and new diplomatic 
offensive led by the United States but aimed at gathering all of Iraq's 
neighbors around the table. They deserve a policy that underscores the 
need for a comprehensive diplomatic approach, which is critical to 
creating the conditions necessary for a troop withdrawal so that we can 
bring our troops home safely and back to their families. They deserve a 
policy that conditions U.S. political, economic, and military support 
on Iraq's progress in meeting specific benchmarks. The Government of 
Iraq simply must take on a greater responsibility for the fate of their 
country. It is foremost their responsibility.

These are the broad principles which I believe should guide us as we 
consider


the various amendments to the bill. I hope we can come together across 
party lines--Democrats and Republicans--to support a change in strategy 
in Iraq.

I have been pleased to join with colleagues from both sides of the 
aisle in crafting an amendment that I believe will result in that 
constructive change. Our amendment is simple. It implements the 
recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. I believe the work of that 
group is a model for how we can come together in good faith. The Iraq 
Study Group was comprised of our finest and most experienced public 
servants in America, equally drawn from both political parties. They 
worked together for months to reach consensus on a comprehensive set of 
recommendations as required by the U.S. Congress in legislation that 
funded and created the Iraq Study Group. I appeal to my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle to take a fresh look at the group's report and 
consider how we can use it as part of the solution in creating a 
successful policy in Iraq.

We will have much more to say about our amendment at a later point in 
the debate. But as we consider Iraq's policy, I hope we can agree that 
we must change course. I hope we can agree that the brave men and women 
serving in Iraq deserve our best effort to reach common ground. I hope 
we can agree on a path forward that will create a better future for 
Iraq, for the Middle East, and a better and more peaceful future for 
the United States of America.

Madam President, to recap, our bipartisan amendment, which now has 13 
cosponsors, would essentially do three things.

First, it would require a mission change for our country in Iraq. 
This would be our national policy and our national law if our proposed 
legislation becomes law and is signed by the President. That change, as 
set forth in the Iraq Study Group Report and in our legislation, would 
remove our troops from a combat mission over to a training mission and 
a mission that is specifically defined to chase al-Qaida. That more 
limited mission is an appropriate one for us here, and that limited 
mission is one that I believe has the bipartisan support of most 
Members of the Senate.

Secondly, this legislation also conditions, for the first time, the 
efforts of the United States of America and Iraq on the progress that 
is made by the Iraqi Government in terms of meeting the benchmarks 
identified in our legislation. It conditions, for the first time, the 
Iraqi Government stepping up to the plate and doing what they should be 
doing, which is providing the functional government that brings about 
security for their own people. It ought not to be the responsibility of 
the U.S. Government to be in the middle of policing a civil war in 
Iraq.


Third, the legislation sets forth a comprehensive, diplomatic 
approach to deal with the issues not only in Iraq but also in the 
region. The fact is, as those of us who have been in that region over 
the last several years know, there are places in that region--countries 
that have been sitting on their hands and have not been helping bring 
about stability in Iraq. We also know Iran and Syria and other 
countries have been playing a negative role in terms of achieving the 
goal of stability in Iraq. At the end of the day, it will take an 
international effort and a regional peace plan to bring about the 
stability we all want not only for Iraq but for the Middle East.

In conclusion, I will say this about the Iraq Study Group and their 
recommendations. Some Members of the Senate have characterized this 
amendment as not doing much. Some Members of the Senate will probably 
come to the floor at some point in the debate and say this legislation 
is too prescriptive; it tells the President too much what to do. Well, 
we will handle those particular criticisms.

The one I wish to deal with briefly is this sense that we have gotten 
from some Members of the Senate that the Iraq Study Group 
recommendations happened a long time ago and they are no longer 
relevant today. I know of no one who spent as much time studying these 
issues of Iraq and the challenges we face there than former Congressman 
Lee Hamilton, the Chairman of the Commission. This is what Lee Hamilton 
had to say with respect to this legislation:




 The recommendations of the Iraq Study Group are as timely 


 and urgent today as they were in December.


Madam President, I hope that my colleagues open their hearts and 
their minds to the direction set forth in the Iraq Study Group Report 
and that they join the bipartisan effort with the Presiding Officer and 
the Senator from Tennessee and other colleagues who are cosponsors of 
this amendment to this legislation.

I know my colleague from Tennessee, Senator Alexander, is on the 
floor. I yield to him.

(Mr. SALAZAR assumed the Chair.)