---
---

# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `1bb53ad19bd158ee9f16591846500810`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, if today's actions by the House 
are any indication, it appears that the Out of Iraq Caucus within the 
Democratic majority is now running the legislative agenda of the 
Congress.

How else can one explain that the rule governing consideration of 
debate of funding of our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan provides only 
two legislative options with regard to U.S. troops in Iraq and 
Afghanistan?

The first, which we are now debating, is an immediate withdrawal of 
troops from Iraq. The second, which we will debate shortly, rations 
funding to our troops over a 60-day period. Both options are short-
sighted, and they are also dangerous.

My colleagues, where did this bill come from?

I gather it was hastily written and introduced last night in an 
attempt to obtain votes for the Obey Iraq supplemental we will be 
considering a little later.

Indeed, the consideration of this withdrawal legislation is nothing 
more than an attempt by the Speaker and the majority leader to appease 
members of the Out of Iraq Caucus so they will support the second 
version offered by Chairman Obey.

Once again, the majority has brought legislation to the House floor 
under a closed rule without an opportunity for amendment or meaningful 
debate. Not only is this an abuse of the legislative process, it is an 
overt violation of the longstanding traditions of the House. The 
majority is making a mockery of the time-honored customs of this body. 
That, in and of itself, is shameful. It is the People's House and the 
people of our country who suffer when open debate is stifled in order 
to preordain a legislative outcome.

Fortunately, this legislation, which embraces surrender and defeat, 
will not pass today. Most Members of the House, both Republican and 
Democrats, have grave reservations about the manner in which this 
legislation undermines our troops and the authority of the President 
and the commander in chief.

Members on both sides of the aisle have expressed concern about the 
effects of an ill-conceived military withdrawal. And Members are 
rightfully concerned about any legislation that places military 
decisions in the hands of politicians rather than the military 
commanders in the field.

The last thing our country or our troops need is to have 535 Members 
of the House and Senators micromanaging the war in Iraq. Recent history 
reminds us that the enemy we face in Iraq, Afghanistan and other 
countries that harbor terrorists, will stop at nothing to attack the 
United States and our allies. They view the consideration of this 
measure and the Obey bill we will consider shortly, as a sign of 
weakness.

Al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations are watching us closely, 
hoping this lack of resolve will prevail. We must not let that happen.

My colleagues, now is not the time for the United States to back down 
from its commitment to the war on terror. Now is not the time for 
America to signal retreat and surrender. Indeed, now is not the time 
for the House of Representatives to throw in the towel, wave the white 
flag or signal retreat and surrender in Iraq.

How could this Congress walk away from our men and women in uniform? 
How could we walk away from them now? We must, we must support our 
troops. Our failure to learn the lessons of history, our failure to 
lead will result in devastating consequences, including an even greater 
loss of lives in the future.

It is absolutely essential that America, the last remaining 
superpower on earth, continue to be a voice for peace and a beacon for 
freedom in our shrinking world.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on the McGovern/Out of Iraq 
Caucus bill.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.