# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `1bb74086c34c39cec0c22e192a125243`
`Mr. KYL â€” 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. KYL. Madam President, I am voting no on the conference report to 
the fiscal year 2010 DOD Authorization Act.

This was not an easy decision. This is a very important bill in view 
of the important policies it puts in place for our men and women 
uniform and I commend the leadership of the committee's chairman and 
ranking member for their commitment to the well being of our nation's 
armed forces. This conference report also contains several important 
provisions I authored or coauthored.

However, I believe is unconscionable that this bill has been taken 
hostage by the far Left to advance its hate crimes agenda. I cannot 
provide my vote for a bill that uses our military in this way if we 
permit it this time, where will it end?

Because of this, while this is an important conference report, and 
mostly a good one, I cannot vote in favor of it today.

The Defense Authorization Act authorizes more than $680 billion for 
national defense programs; this figure includes authorization for 
funding for ongoing operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the war on 
terror. It also authorizes funding for such crucial programs as 
Department of Defense military assistance to for Afghanistan and 
Pakistan. And it includes $7.5 billion to train and equip Afghan 
security forces and $1.3 billion for the Commanders' Emergency Response 
Program, which provides funds for commanders in Iraq and Afghanistan to 
spur local security and reconstruction projects.

The bill appropriately caps F-22 production at 187 aircraft--which 
the Pentagon requested--and it includes $6.7 billion for armored 
vehicles including the new M-ATVs, $600 million for equipment 
shortfalls in the National Guard, and more funding for defense health 
and family support programs. It also includes a 3.4 percent across-the-
board pay raise for the men and women in the military

I am also pleased that the conference report contains several 
provisions I authored or coauthored, including an amendment requiring a 
comprehensive review by the Government Accountability Office on the 
successes, failures and unmet objectives of the Stockpile Stewardship 
Program. This is an important report for future debates on START and 
other matters, a provision I coauthored, section 1254, with Senators 
Bayh and Lieberman on imposing sanctions on Iran if it continues its 
illegal nuclear weapons program. I am disappointed that this provision 
was watered down in conference, as it passed the Senate with its 
unanimous endorsement that the Iranian Central Bank should be 
sanctioned if Iran continues to defy the world on uranium enrichment. 
However, I am pleased that it continues to state the strong support of 
the Congress for the proposition that Iran must comply with the U.N. 
Security Council Resolutions directing it to halt uranium enrichment a 
provision I authored, Section 1251, with several of my colleagues, 
including the Republican leader and the ranking member of the Armed 
Services Committee, regarding the START follow-on.

I am pleased that the conference report enshrines in law that the 
President must deliver to the Congress a report on the plan to 
modernize the nuclear weapons stockpile and complex, as well as the 
delivery vehicles.

The Perry-Schlesinger Commission was clear that further reductions in 
the U.S. nuclear weapons force are only prudent if the weapons that 
remain are highly reliable and credible. This is only possible with a 
robust modernization program, which has to include full and timely 
Lifetime Extension Programs for the B61 and W76 warheads consistent 
with military needs; funding for a modern warhead that includes new 
approaches to life extension involving replacement, or, possibly, 
component reuse; full funding for stockpile surveillance work through 
the nuclear weapons complex, as well as the science and engineering 
campaigns at the national laboratories; and full funding for the timely 
replacement of the Los Alamos plutonium research and development and 
analytical chemistry facility, the uranium facilities at the Oak Ridge 
Y-12 plant, and a modern pit facility.

This provision greatly strengthens the DOD authorization bill, and, I 
think, makes it more likely the Senate will be able to ratify a follow-
on treaty to START, especially if the President heeds the Senate's 
advice, in this section, that missile defense, space systems, and 
advanced conventional modernization, which includes nonnuclear


global strike capability are not subjects for this follow-on agreement.

I would have been proud to cast my vote for legislation providing 
these policies for our men and women in uniform; and I am grateful for 
the leadership of the chairman and ranking member on these issues.

I am, however, concerned by several provisions of the bill. First, I 
opposed the inclusion of funding for an alternate engine for the F-35, 
or Joint Strike Fighter. At a time when we are fighting two wars, the 
$560 million authorized in this bill for the development and 
procurement of an alternate engine could be better spent to support our 
troops. The Secretary of Defense opposes this program, and the 
administration so strongly opposes the alternate engine that the 
President's advisers have recommended he veto the bill over this 
provision.

Our national debt is spiraling out of control. Critical defense 
programs, like missile defense, are underfunded. The F-35 alternate 
engine is a prime example of an unnecessary program that should not be 
authorized in this bill.

I am also greatly concerned about the manner in which missile defense 
is addressed in the conference report. I joined Senators Lieberman and 
Sessions in offering an amendment to the Senate version of the NDAA 
that would require the administration to certify that any proposed 
alternative to the planned missile defense sites in Poland and the 
Czech Republic be at least as cost effective and operationally 
effective as the original plan. In particular, I wanted to ensure that 
any alternative proposal was capable of protecting the United States as 
well as our European allies against long-range Iranian ballistic 
missiles. This amendment was adopted unanimously on the floor of the 
Senate, while a similar version was also included in the House-passed 
version of the NDAA.

Unfortunately, the conference report only authorizes funding for the 
alternative proposal and eliminates entirely the certification 
requirement that the alternative be as least as effective as the 
planned deployments in Poland and the Czech Republic. As such, I 
believe the administration is moving forward with a plan for missile 
defenses in Europe that will leave most of Europe and the United States 
more vulnerable to the threat of long-range Iranian ballistic missiles 
than the previous plan.

I would also note that this authorization bill endorses an approach 
to missile defense that emphasizes theater missile defense over the 
protection of the U.S. homeland. Under the previous plan, protection 
for the United States against future Iranian and North Korean 
intercontinental ballistic missiles was to be guaranteed by 54 ground-
based interceptors: 40 deployed in Alaska, 4 in California, and 10 in 
Poland. The Obama administration has curtailed this to deployment to 30 
ground-based interceptors in Alaska. Attempts by the minority to 
restore funding for the deployment of additional ground-based 
interceptors were rejected by the majority in both the House and the 
Senate. America will be less secure as a consequence.

Finally, the so-called hate crimes bill should not have been attached 
to the defense authorization act. Adding this left-wing priority onto 
the legislation that authorizes funding for our troops in battle is not 
in our troops' best interest.

A hate crimes bill should have been considered by this Chamber as a 
stand-alone bill that would pass or fail on its own merits. By 
attaching it to the unrelated, and must-pass, NDAA, the sponsors of 
this legislation clearly indicated that they anticipated they would 
encounter trouble in successfully getting a hate crimes bill through 
the regular legislative process on its own. And with good reason the 
hate crimes legislation is unnecessary Federal Government interference 
in an issue that is adequately handled by the States.

Forty-five States and the District of Columbia already have hate 
crimes laws. To my knowledge, States have a track record of 
aggressively prosecuting hate crimes, making a Federal hate crimes 
prevention act an unnecessary imposition on state jurisdiction. After 
all, State, rather than Federal, courts exist to adjudicate local 
crimes. Matters that can be handled adequately by the States, like hate 
crimes prosecution, should be left to them.

Everyone in this Chamber undoubtedly wants to ensure that all 
Americans are protected from crime. But flawed legislation that 
unnecessarily takes responsibility away from States and further taxes 
the Department of Justice's resources does not enhance the protection 
of people from these crimes.

The chairman and ranking member worked hard to complete a conference 
report that I would have been able to support absent the so-called hate 
crimes bill. However, I cannot support using our men and women in 
uniform as pawns to satisfy the liberal base of the Democratic Party. 
For that reason, I must oppose the conference report.