# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `1bb820760fb8eb61a11245266fa613b7`
`Mr. CRAIG — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President, I rise today as the Ranking Member of the 
Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs to join my distinguished 
colleague, Senator Akaka, who serves as the Chairman of the Committee, 
in introducing this important legislation to assist veterans who suffer 
from a traumatic brain injury.

Every so often an issue of incredible importance confronts this 
institution and government as whole. And when it does, it is critical 
that we here in Congress cut through the politics of this institution 
and the red tape of government and do what is right and necessary for 
Americans in need. The bill Senator Akaka and I are introducing today 
is one of those times and veterans with traumatic brain injury is one 
of those issues.

Sadly, hundreds and perhaps even thousands of our dedicated 
servicemen


and women are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with mild, moderate, 
and even severe head trauma. Improvised Explosive Devices detonating 
regularly throughout Iraq have exposed our soldiers, sailors, airmen 
and Marines to countless instances in which a TBI can occur. The long-
term consequences of these injuries are, in many ways, unknown to us. 
There's so much modern medicine doesn't know about how the brain 
functions, let alone how little we know about the consequences of small 
changes in its functioning.

Still, it is incumbent on us to do everything in our power to provide 
the best care and services to those servicemembers and veterans in need 
of TBI care and rehabilitation. To that end, Senator Akaka and I 
believe that quality TBI care must include certain elements, which this 
legislation would impose on VA.

Most important among these new requirements is the directive for VA 
to provide every veteran who has an inpatient stay for a TBI with an 
individual plan for rehabilitation and reintegration. This may sound to 
many of my colleagues like a very simple, and thus unimportant, 
requirement. But, I believe it is a critical component of recovery.

It is a requirement that patients, families, doctors, nurses, social 
workers, etc., sit down and develop a detailed plan to maximize the 
chances of recovery and independent living at some point in the future 
for an injured servicemember or veteran. In short, it is the start of 
the road to recovery.

In addition to the requirement for individual plans, VA must be given 
some flexibility to seek out private care services when the situation 
or the severity of the traumatic brain injury calls for it. This 
legislation would establish the parameters for receipt of that care and 
I believe send an important message to VA and our wounded veterans that 
we want the best care possible regardless of whether it is obtained 
through a door with the letters V-A over them or through a door with a 
different name.

Also, this bill would establish a research, clinical care, and 
education program for traumatic brain injury. The program would be 
modeled on VA's very successful Mental Illness Research, Education and 
Clinical Care program as well as the special programs for Parkinson's 
disease and geriatric medicine. The nation must invest in learning more 
about the debilitating conditions that accompany a traumatic brain 
injury so that one day we might look forward to better treatment and, 
most importantly, a better quality of life for these heroes.

Finally, the legislation would create a pilot program for assisted 
living for veterans with severe traumatic brain injury. I recognize 
that generally assisted living is not a program that VA has embraced in 
the past. But, the sheer number of those suffering with TBI and the 
severity of those conditions demand that we once again consider 
assisted living as a viable means of providing some quality of life to 
veterans and their families. And I am proud that assisted living will 
once again be a component of care provided by VA.

I urge all of my colleagues to cosponsor this legislation. The 
Chairman and I are very proud of the work we've done together in this 
legislation. I see a lot of progress in VA with respect to the care 
they are providing all of our wounded soldiers and veterans. But, more 
can be done.

I think this bill will move VA further in the direction they are 
heading and provide veterans with traumatic brain injuries an 
opportunity to achieve a full and productive life.

With that, again, I want to again thank Chairman Akaka for his work.