# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `1bc0d1de7396267c563ebaa1dc73b62a`
`Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished ranking 
member for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, typically I would talk about all the spending problems 
in this bill. I want to talk about that for a moment.

This bill includes $16 billion in non-war, non-emergency spending. It 
blows through the $6.45 billion reserve fund that the incumbent budget 
resolution has for emergencies. It completely puts aside the rules that 
govern whether or not and how we fund emergency spending.

We put in these rules last year, which to the majority's credit 
continued this year, that said you can't just tuck anything in an 
emergency spending bill. It actually has to really be an emergency. 
Well, they have put those rules aside. We have got $16 billion of this 
stuff in here.

But the real problem I have with this bill, Mr. Speaker, the real 
concern I have is the signals it sends. We are telling our troops, we 
are telling our men and women in uniform in harm's way in Iraq, you 
have got 2 months, 2 months of funding, but we are letting any Member 
of Congress open up the bidding war and put $16 billion of stuff in 
here to fund them for a lot longer than 2 months. We are giving NASA 
more money than they need. We are putting LIHEAP money in here even 
after the winter has passed. We are putting money for the Architect of 
the Capitol for tunnel maintenance. We are putting the minimum wage in 
here. We


are saying yes to every other constituency, yes to every other spending 
request, whether it has anything to do with Iraq or not, whether it is 
a true emergency or not.

Some of these things may have merit, but why are they in this bill? 
And, more importantly, why are we telling our troops 2 months and 
you're up?

Mr. Speaker, our troops need better than that. They need to know we 
are going to be there for them. The Iraqi people need to know we are 
going to be there for them.

I was there just a couple months ago. Millions of Iraqis are sitting 
on the fence, trying to determine whether they join us or join the 
insurgency. If we tell them we are leaving in 2 months, we are cutting 
off the funding in 2 months, guess what. Those millions of Iraqis 
aren't going to join us. They aren't going to democracy. They are going 
to be pressured for fear to join the insurgency.

This sends the wrong message to the Iraqis. It sends the wrong 
message to our enemies. And it sure sends the wrong message to our 
troops.

I urge defeat of this bill.