---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `1bc84f0d1bcd42722c828cdc51b84bef`
`Mr. STARK — 18 October 2007`

---


Mr. STARK. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 2 minutes.

First of all, I'm just amazed that the Republicans are worried that 
we can't pay for insuring an additional 10 million children. They sure 
don't care about finding $200 billion to fight the illegal war in Iraq. 
Where are you going to get that money? You are going to tell us lies 
like you're telling us today? Is that how you're going to fund the war?

You don't have money to fund the war or children, but you're going to 
spend it to blow up innocent people if we can get enough kids to grow 
old enough for you to send to Iraq to get their heads blown off for the 
President's amusement.

This bill would provide health care for 10 million children; and 
unlike the President's own kids, these children can't see a doctor or 
receive necessary care. Six million are insured through the Children's 
Health Insurance Program, and they'll do better in school and in life.




In California, the President's veto will cause the legislature to 
draw up emergency regulations to cut some 800,000 children off the 
rolls in California and create a waiting list. I hope my California 
Republican colleagues will understand that if they don't vote to 
override this veto, they are destroying health care for many of our 
children in California.

In his previous job as an actor, our Governor used to play make-
believe and blow things up. Well, the Republicans in Congress are 
playing make-believe today with children's lives. They claim they can't 
afford health care. They say the bill will socialize medicine. Tell 
that to Orrin Hatch, Chuck Grassley, and Ted Stevens, those socialists 
on the other side of the Capitol. The truth is, the CHIP program allows 
States to cover children primarily through private health care plans.

But President Bush's statements about children's health shouldn't be 
taken any more seriously than his lies about the war in Iraq. The truth 
is that Bush just likes to blow things up in Iraq, in the United 
States, and in Congress.

I urge my colleagues to vote to override his veto. America's children 
need and deserve health care despite the President's desire to deny it 
to them.










Announcement By the Speaker Pro Tempore
