---
---

# CELEBRATING UPPER DUBLIN HIGH SCHOOL'S VETERANS HISTORY PROJECT  PARTICIPATION
## `1bcb56686e8a50bc99cb4782ddcef320`
`Ms. SCHWARTZ — 7 November 2007`

---


Ms. SCHWARTZ. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor and congratulate 
Upper Dublin High School in Upper Dublin Township, PA on their 
outstanding participation in the Veterans History Project of the 
Library of Congress. Students and teachers have contributed their time 
and skills to preserving the remarkable experiences of our war veterans 
from all service branches, from World War I to the present day Iraq 
War, as well as the civilians who supported them. I am privileged to 
represent these students and teachers in Congress.

The Veterans History Project preserves the legacy of those who have 
served through the establishment of a permanent national collection, 
housed in the Library of Congress, of videotaped and recorded 
interviews, written memoirs, and wartime letters, diaries, and 
photographs. Stories and materials are available to anyone visiting the 
Library. In addition, a Web page is created for each veteran who 
contributes an interview.

As our Nation's World War II and Korean Veterans grow older, it is 
critical that we record their stories. Their experiences offer a 
priceless window into their dedication and love of country. As the 
daughter of a Korean War veteran, this effort has special personal 
meaning for me. We have much to learn from those who have served our 
Nation, and I wholeheartedly support this important project.

On this Veterans Day, November 12, 2007, I am proud to recognize 
Upper Dublin High School's Veterans History Project participation at a 
special event, ''Preserving Their Stories: A Salute to Veterans History 
Project Volunteers,'' at the Hiway Theatre in Jenkintown. This special 
celebration will bring together Americans, both young and older, with 
veterans of all ages, to honor their common service to their fellow 
citizens and country.

Madam Speaker, once again I congratulate all of the Veterans History 
Project participants for their contributions to capturing the 
experiences of war veterans, thus honoring the lives and contributions 
of these extraordinary Americans.
