# None
## `1bd6e1aae1e68b356aec19b6572c16ec`
`Mrs. LOWEY â€” 19 May 2008`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Obey and Speaker Pelosi for 
crafting a bill which protects our troops, supports our veterans, 
addresses critical economic and infrastructure needs, and redirects our 
policy in Iraq to reflect the will of the American people.

The President misled the Congress and the American people into the 
war in Iraq and has mismanaged it at every turn. As a result, this war 
has provided fertile ground for terrorists to grow their networks in 
Iraq and distracted the Administration from the original war on terror 
in Afghanistan.

The President has continued to ignore the will of the American people 
and Congress, disregarding expert guidance of former generals and 
foreign policy leaders by continuing a failed strategy in Iraq.

So, today I am compelled to vote against continued funding for this 
war to send a strong message to the Administration that we cannot 
continue this course and there will be no more blank checks.

That is why I will also vote for requirements that establish clear 
guidelines to end this war quickly and responsibly. This bill requires 
that U.S. troops begin redeployment from Iraq within 30 days and 
complete withdrawal of combat troops by December 2009. This measure 
also ensures that any new agreement between the U.S. and the Government 
of Iraq that commits U.S. forces be specifically authorized by 
Congress; prohibits the establishment of permanent bases in Iraq; 
prohibits torture; and protects our troops by ensuring that they are 
''combat ready,'' deployed no longer than Pentagon guidelines allow, 
and provided adequate time between deployments.

I will also support the portion of this bill which includes GI 
education benefits for veterans, extended unemployment compensation for 
those out of work in this struggling economy, and critical funding for 
international priorities.

In the State and Foreign Operations portion of this bill we reduced 
Iraq assistance and operations by $1.2 billion from the President's 
request and, furthermore, require that the Iraqis match our assistance 
dollar for dollar. With oil at $125 a barrel and the Iraqi government 
expected to run surpluses over $50 billion, there is no reason that the 
Iraqis shouldn't provide more of their own resources to support their 
country.

This bill provides sufficient funding to maintain assistance programs 
and fund our diplomatic operations in Iraq and Afghanistan through the 
first three quarters of fiscal year 2009, including over $50 million to 
continue important oversight functions of the inspectors general in 
Iraq. This bill also provides $462 million for counter-drug and law 
enforcement efforts in Mexico and Central America.

The President's request failed to address the needs of one of our 
closest allies in the Middle East. Jordan is struggling with an influx 
of nearly 500,000 Iraqi refugees, and this bill provides $350 million 
in economic and security assistance to help Jordan meet these needs.

Additionally, we have included $675 million in response to the global 
refugee crisis resulting from the conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan and 
parts of Africa.

Rising fuel costs, the global economic down-turn and food scarcity 
have created a global food crisis that is breeding instability across 
Africa, Asia and Latin America. This bill provides $620 million in 
disaster and development assistance to address short-term and longer-
term food security. These funds exceed the $1.2 billion in PL. 480 food 
aid in the agriculture section of this bill.

We have also provided the remaining $333.6 million for the UN Mission 
in Darfur for FY08 as well as an additional $90 million to train police 
to join this UN mission and to support the upcoming elections in 
Southern Sudan.

Finally, in light of critical staffing deficiencies at the State 
Department and USAID, the bill contains over $100 million to rebuild 
the capacity of our diplomatic and development corps, including $50 
million for the Civilian Stabilization Initiative.

This bill provides funding for critical international and domestic 
needs to help suffering people overseas and struggling families here at 
home. We also must end the war in Iraq which has cost us far too many 
lives and too much money. Our troops and their families have sacrificed 
greatly, and it is time to bring our troops home.
