---
---

# IN RECOGNITION OF VIETNAM WAR VETERANS EVENT
## `1c0bfb23329c82e994f3793f2212da8b`
`Mr. SKELTON — 15 October 2009`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, on September 12, 2009, the Honorable 
Emanuel Cleaver, Congressman from Missouri's Fifth Congressional 
District, sponsored a remarkable event at the Truman Library. This 
event was in honor of those who fought in the Vietnam War in the late 
1960s and early 1970s. Well over 1,000 veterans attended. The Honorable 
Dennis Moore, Congressman from Kansas's Third Congressional District, 
spoke, and yours truly had an opportunity to deliver a message of 
gratitude to the Vietnam veterans present. The keynote speaker was 
Major General (Ret.) Robert H. Scales, former commandant of the U.S. 
Army War College. His address was very well received by the veterans in 
the audience. The address is as follows:















[Sept. 12, 2009]













 Truman Library Speech











(By MG (Ret.) Robert H. Scales)




 Mr. Skelton, Mr Cleaver, distinguished guests and, most 


 importantly, fellow veterans. What a great thrill it is see 


 my comrades in arms assembled here so many years after we 


 shared our experiences in war.



 Let me give you the bottom line up front: I'm proud I 


 served in Vietnam. Like you I didn't kill innocents, I killed 


 the enemy; I didn't fight for big oil or for some lame 


 conspiracy I fought for a country I believed in and for the 


 buddies who kept me alive. Like you I was troubled that, 


 unlike my father, I didn't come back to a grateful nation. It 


 took a generation and another war, Desert Storm, for the 


 nation to come back to me.



 Also like you I remember the war being 99 percent boredom 


 and one percent pure abject terror. But not all my memories 


 of Vietnam are terrible. There were times when I enjoyed my 


 service in combat. Such sentiment must seem strange to a 


 society today that has, thanks to our superb volunteer 


 military, been completely insulated from war. If they thought 


 about Vietnam at all our fellow citizens would imagine that 


 fifty years would have been sufficient to erase this 


 unpleasant war from our consciousness. Looking over this 


 assembly it's obvious that the memory lingers, and those of 


 us who fought in that war remember.



 The question is why? If this war was so terrible why are we 


 here? It's my privilege today to try to answer that question 


 not only for you, brother veterans, but maybe for a wider 


 audience for whom, fifty years on, Vietnam is as strangely 


 distant as World War One was to our generation.



 Vietnam is seared in our memory for the same reason that 


 wars have lingered in the




 minds of soldiers for as long as wars have been fought.



 From Marathon to Mosul young men and now women have marched 


 off to war to learn that the cold fear of violent death and 


 the prospects of killing another human being heighten the 


 senses and sear these experiences deeply and irrevocably into 


 our souls and linger in the back recesses of our minds.



 After Vietnam we may have gone on to thrilling lives or 


 dull; we might have found love or loneliness, success or 


 failure. But our experiences have stayed with us in brilliant 


 Technicolor and with a clarity undiminished by time. For what 


 ever primal reason war heightens the senses. When in combat 


 we see sharper, hear more clearly and develop a sixth sense 


 about everything around us.



 Remember the sights? I recall sitting in the jungle one 


 bright moonlit night marveling on the beauty of Vietnam. How 


 lush and green it was; how attractive and gentle the people, 


 how stoic and unmoved they were amid the chaos that 


 surrounded them.



 Do you remember the sounds? Where else could you stand 


 outside a bunker and listen to the cacophonous mix of Jimi 


 Hendrix, Merle Haggard and Jefferson Airplane? Or how about 


 the sounds of incoming? Remember it wasn't a boom like in the 


 movies but a horrifying noise like a passing train followed 


 by a crack and the whistle of flying fragments. Remember the 


 smells? The sharpness of cordite, the choking stench of 


 rotting jungle and the tragic sweet smell of enemy dead . . .



 I remember the touch, the wet, sticky sensation when I 


 touched one of my wounded soldiers one last time before the 


 medevac rushed him forever from our presence but not from my 


 memory, and the guilt I felt realizing that his pain was 


 caused by my inattention and my lack of experience.



 Even taste is a sense that brings back memories. Remember 


 the end of the day after the log bird flew away leaving mail, 


 C rations and warm beer? Only the first sergeant had 


 sufficient gravitas to be allowed to turn the C ration cases 


 over so that all of us could reach in and pull out a box on 


 the unlabeled side hoping that it wasn't going to be ham and 


 lima beans again.



 Look, forty years on I can forgive the guy who put powder 


 in our ammunition so foul that it caused our M-16s to jam. 


 I'm OK with helicopters that arrived late. I'm over artillery 


 landing too close and the occasional canceled air strike. But 


 I will never forgive the Pentagon bureaucrat who in an 


 incredibly lame moment thought that a soldier would open a 


 can of that green, greasy, gelatinous goo called ham and lima 


 beans and actually eat it.



 But to paraphrase that iconic war hero of our generation, 


 Forrest Gump, ''Life is like a case of C Rations, you never 


 know what you're going to get.'' Because for every box of ham 


 and lima beans there was that rapturous moment when you would 


 turn over the box and discover the bacchanalian joy of 


 peaches and pound cake. It's all a metaphor for the surreal 


 nature of that war and its small pleasures . . . those who 


 have never known war cannot believe that anyone can find 


 joy in hot beer and cold pound cake. But we can . . .



 Another reason why Vietnam remains in our consciousness is 


 that the experience has made us better. Don't get me wrong. 


 I'm not arguing for war as a self improvement course. And I 


 realize that war's trauma has damaged many of our fellow 


 veterans physically, psychologically and morally. But recent 


 research on Post Traumatic Stress Disorder by behavioral 


 scientists has unearthed a phenomenon familiar to most 


 veterans: that the trauma of war strengthens rather than 


 weakens us (They call it Post Traumatic Growth). We know that 


 a near death experience makes us better leaders by increasing 


 our self reliance, resilience, self image, confidence and 


 ability to deal with adversity. Combat veterans tend to 


 approach the future wiser, more spiritual and content with an 


 amplified appreciation for life. We know this is true. It's 


 nice to see that the human scientists now agree.



 I'm proud that our service left a legacy that has made 


 today's military better. Sadly Americans too often prefer to 


 fight wars with technology. Our experience in Vietnam taught 


 the nation the lesson that war is inherently a human not a 


 technological endeavor. Our experience is a distant whisper 


 in the ear of today's technology wizards that firepower is 


 not sufficient to win, that the enemy has a vote, that the 


 object of war should not be to kill the enemy but to win the 


 trust and allegiance of the people and that the ultimate 


 weapon in this kind or war is a superbly trained, motivated, 


 and equipped soldier who is tightly bonded to his buddies and 


 who trusts his leaders.



 I've visited our young men and women in Iraq and 


 Afghanistan several times. On each visit I've seen first hand 


 the strong connection between our war and theirs. These are 


 worthy warriors who operate in a manner remarkably 


 reminiscent of the way we fought so many years ago.



 The similarities are surreal. Close your eyes for a moment 


 and it all comes rushing back . . . In Afghanistan I watched 


 soldiers from my old unit, the 101st Airborne Division, as 


 they conducted daily patrols from firebases constructed and 


 manned in a manner virtually the same as those we occupied 


 and fought from so many years ago. Every day these sky 


 soldiers trudge outside the wire and climb across impossible 


 terrain with the purpose as one sergeant put it ''to kill the 


 bad guys, protect the good guys and bring home as many of my 


 soldiers as I can.'' Your legacy is alive and well. You 


 should be proud.



 The timeless connection between our generation and theirs 


 can be seen in the unity and fighting spirit of our soldiers 


 in Iraq and Afghanistan. Again and again, I get asked the 


 same old question from folks who watch soldiers in action on 


 television: why is their morale so high? Don't they know the 


 American people are getting fed up with these wars? Don't 


 they know Afghanistan is going badly? Often they come to me 


 incredulous about what they perceive as a misspent sense of 


 patriotism and loyalty.



 I tell them time and again what every one of you sitting 


 here today, those of you who have seen the face of war, 


 understand: it's not really about loyalty. It's not about a 


 belief in some abstract notion concerning war aims or 


 national strategy. It's not even about winning or losing. On 


 those lonely firebases as we dug through C ration boxes and 


 drank hot beer we didn't argue the righteousness of our cause 


 or ponder the latest pronouncements from McNamara or Nixon or 


 Ho Chi Minh for that matter. Some of us might have trusted 


 our leaders or maybe not. We might have been well informed 


 and passionate about the protests at home or maybe not. We 


 might have groused about the rich and privileged who found a 


 way to avoid service but we probably didn't. We might have 


 volunteered for the war to stop the spread of global 


 communism or maybe we just had a failing semester and got 


 swept up in the draft.



 In war young soldiers think about their buddies. They talk 


 about families, wives and girlfriends and relate to each 


 other through very personal confessions. For the most part 


 the military we served with in Vietnam did not come from the 


 social elite. We didn't have Harvard degrees or the pedigree 


 of political bluebloods. We were in large measure volunteers 


 and draftees from middle and lower class America. Just as in 


 Iraq today we came from every corner of our country to meet 


 in a beautiful yet harsh and forbidding place, a place that 


 we've seen and experienced but can never explain adequately 


 to those who were never there.



 Soldiers suffer, fight and occasionally die for each other. 


 It's as simple as that. What brought us to fight in the 


 jungle was no different than the motive force that compels 


 young soldiers today to kick open a door in Ramadi with the 


 expectation that what lies on the other side is either an 


 innocent huddling with a child in her arms or a fanatic 


 insurgent yearning to buy his ticket to eternity by killing 


 the infidel. No difference. Patriotism and a paycheck may get 


 a soldier into the military but fear of letting his buddies 


 down gets a soldier to do something that might just as well 


 get him killed.



 What makes a person successful in America today is a far 


 cry from what would have made him a success in the minds of 


 those assembled here today. Big bucks gained in law or real 


 estate, or big deals closed on the stock market made some of 


 our countrymen rich. But as they have grown older they now 


 realize that they have no buddies. There is no one who they 


 are willing to die for or who is willing to die for them. 


 William Manchester served as a Marine in the Pacific during 


 World War II and put the sentiment precisely right when he 


 wrote: ''Any man in combat who lacks comrades who will die 


 for him, or for whom he is willing to die is not a man at 


 all. He is truly damned.''



 The Anglo Saxon heritage of buddy loyalty is long and 


 frightfully won. Almost six hundred years ago the English 


 king, Henry V, waited on a cold and muddy battlefield to face 


 a French army many times his size. Shakespeare captured the 


 ethos of that moment in his play Henry V. To be sure 


 Shakespeare wasn't there but he was there in spirit because 


 he understood the emotions that gripped and the bonds that 


 brought together both king and soldier. Henry didn't talk 


 about national strategy. He didn't try to justify faulty 


 intelligence or ill formed command decisions that put his 


 soldiers at such a terrible disadvantage. Instead, he talked 


 about what made English soldiers fight and what in all 


 probably would allow them to prevail the next day against 


 terrible odds. Remember this is a monarch talking to his men:



 This story shall the good man teach his son;


 From this day ending to the ending of the world,


 But we in it shall be remembered;


 We few, we happy few, we band of brothers; For he today that 





 sheds his blood with me shall be my brother;


 And gentlemen in England (or America) now a-bed


 Shall think themselves accursed they were not here,


 And hold their manhood's cheap whiles any speaks


 That fought with us upon Saint Crispin's day.




 You all here assembled inherit the spirit of St. Crispin's 


 day. You know and understand the strength of comfort that 


 those whom you protect, those in America now abed, will never 


 know. You have lived a life of self awareness and personal 


 satisfaction that those who watched you from afar in this 


 country who ''hold their manhood cheap'' can only envy.



 I don't care whether America honors or even remembers the 


 good service we performed in Vietnam. It doesn't bother me 


 that war is an image that America would rather ignore. It's 


 enough for me to have the privilege to be among you. It's 


 sufficient to




 talk to each of you about things we have seen and kinships we 


 have shared in the tough and heartless crucible of war.



 Some day we will all join those who are serving so 


 gallantly now and have preceded us on battlefields from 


 Gettysburg to Wanat. We will gather inside a firebase to open 


 a case of C rations with every box peaches and pound cake. We 


 will join with a band of brothers to recount the experience 


 of serving something greater than ourselves. I believe in my 


 very soul that the almightily reserves a corner of heaven, 


 probably around a perpetual lager where some day we can meet 


 and embrace . . . all of the band of brothers throughout the 


 ages to tell our stories while envious standers-by watch and 


 wonder how horrific and incendiary the crucible of violence 


 must have been to bring such a disparate assemblage so close 


 to the hand of God.



 Until we meet there thank you for your service, thank you 


 for your sacrifice, God bless you all and God bless this 


 great nation. . . .
