---
---

# FREE THE ISRAELI SOLDIERS
## `1c130d6eb175befa9f4fad268715dbc8`
`Mr. LANTOS — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. LANTOS. Mr. Speaker, I call for the unconditional release of 
Israeli soldiers still held hostage by terrorists. Exactly one year ago 
today, Hezbollah terrorists entered territory that unambiguously 
belongs to Israel under international law, launching an assault into 
Israel's north that killed three soldiers on patrol, wounded two, and 
took two others hostage.

The two hostages, Ehud ''Udi'' Goldwasser and Eldad Regev, were 
injured in the attack, and yet Hezbollah refuses to allow 
representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross to 
visit them, a flagrant breach of international law and practice. They 
have also refused to give the hostages' families any indication that 
their loved ones are alive. This is particularly worrisome, because 
reports have surfaced suggesting Goldwasser and Regev could have been 
critically injured in the attack in which they were taken captive.

Only seventeen days earlier, fundamentalist thugs launched a similar 
raid out of the Gaza Strip to take hostage another young Israeli 
soldier on patrol in Israel's south, Corporal Gilad Shalit. He has now 
been held hostage in Gaza for more than a year. Just two weeks ago a 
recording of him pleading for help was released on a Hamas website. In 
this recording, Shalit says that his health is deteriorating and he is 
in pressing need of long-term hospitalization. It should come as no 
surprise that his terrorist captors have failed to allow him adequate 
medical treatment.

Mr. Speaker, Hezbollah and Hamas are clearly to blame for the 
outbreak of violence in the Middle East last summer. They committed 
acts of war by kidnapping Israeli soldiers who were conducting regular 
patrol missions on their own side of the border.

And while last summer's war has receded somewhat into the past, the 
initial causes for the violence have not yet been addressed. Chief 
among these is the fact that these three Israeli hostages remain in 
captivity and that Hezbollah and Hamas remain committed to Israel's 
violent destruction. United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701, 
which imposed a ceasefire on Israel's Lebanon front, emphasized, and I 
quote, ''the need to address the causes that have given rise to the 
current crisis, including the unconditional release of the abducted 
Israeli soldiers.'' Unfortunately, that condition remains totally 
unfulfilled.

Mr. Speaker, this House has not been silent on the plight of these 
victims of terrorism. Shortly after Udi Goldwasser's young wife visited 
Congress at the start of this year and pleaded for our help, we swiftly 
passed H. Res. 107, which was sponsored by my good friend Congressman 
Gary Ackerman, the distinguished chairman of the Foreign Affairs 
Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia. This bill called for 
the unconditional release of the three kidnapped soldiers and condemned 
the culpable terrorist groups for their despicable actions. The Senate 
passed a similar bill, which was introduced by Senator Hillary Clinton.

Speaker Pelosi has played a particularly admirable role in the global 
effort to free these three men. When she met with Syrian President 
Assad in Damascus just this past April, she presented him with a 
replica of the three hostages' ''dog tags'' as a means of urging him to 
secure their release from these terrorist groups that Damascus has long 
hosted and supported. She also made crystal-clear to President Assad 
that under no circumstances could bilateral relations with the United 
States improve until Damascus showed its willingness to cease 
sponsoring terror.

To commemorate the one year anniversary of the kidnapping of 
Goldwasser and Regev by Hezbollah, the United Jewish Communities 
recently organized a campaign to send copies of these dog tags to every 
member of Congress. I commend them for their admirable and thoughtful 
activism drawing attention to the ongoing plight of the three captives.

Mr. Speaker, Israel is a steadfast ally of the United States, and it 
is on the frontline of the war against terrorism. Israeli soldiers face 
such threats every day, much like our own inspiring and steadfast 
soldiers who are currently serving in harm's way in places like 
Afghanistan and Iraq. It is incumbent upon us to give our ally in this 
fight our steadfast support in the face of such terrorist predations.

Mr. Speaker, many of us have been active in efforts over the years to 
convince our friends in the EU to designate Hezbollah as a terrorist 
group. A very few EU states do so on a national basis, but the EU 
collectively continues to view Hezbollah strictly as a political party. 
This is an absurd anomaly, and I urge our EU friends and allies to 
reconsider this policy on this sad one-year anniversary. I know of no 
other ''political party'' in the world that kidnaps and holds 
hostages--a fairly remarkable innovation in democratic politics. (In 
contrast to its policy regarding Hezbollah, the EU does designate Hamas 
as a terrorist group. I am pleased by that, but the distinction between 
Hamas killers and Hezbollah killers is frankly lost on me.)

Mr. Speaker, I have the following message for the terrorists who are 
holding the three Israeli soldiers: Release these innocent hostages, 
and do so without delay. Should you not, the civilized world--and 
certainly this body--will not remain silent.