---
---

# HONORING AID WORKERS KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN
## `1c19f0a381503ad2941ce6c97875429a`
`Mr. PITTS — 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. PITTS. I want to first thank the chairman of the committee, Mr. 
Berman, and Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen for moving this resolution so 
promptly.

It is a privilege for me to sponsor this resolution. The six 
Americans had their lives brutally taken from them as they served the 
people of Afghanistan, and they deserve our deepest respect.

From my district, in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, Glen Lapp came to 
Afghanistan in 2008, leaving his life in Pennsylvania behind in order 
to serve as the manager of a much-needed provincial eye care program in 
Afghanistan. Glen wrote that his hope was to treat the Afghan people 
with respect and with love as he served them throughout their country.

The others who were killed were just as dedicated to providing 
humanitarian aid to the Afghans in remote areas.

Aid workers have played a vital role in serving the Afghan public 
over the last three decades, due to the country's instability. While 
many aid workers in the past were given safe passage in conflict areas, 
sadly, in recent months, attacks against them have escalated. The 
perpetrators are breaking longstanding customs and have resorted to 
targeting the very people who are trying to supply the people of 
Afghanistan with the resources necessary to meet their most basic 
needs.

It is obvious that those who killed these aid workers oppose economic 
and social progress in Afghanistan, including access to medical care, 
education, and shelter. These perpetrators must be brought to justice. 
These terrorists who killed these six Americans and four others are no 
different from the terrorists who throw acid in girls' faces when they 
try to go to school. They are the same terrorists who use children as 
human shields against American troops.

Do we understand that these senseless killings are another terrible 
reminder of the brutality of the Taliban and al Qaeda foreign fighters? 
Do we understand that these murderers must be brought to justice no 
matter where they originated, either in Afghanistan or Pakistan?

The people of Afghanistan suffer every day from the cruelty of the 
Taliban. Along with the families who lost loved ones, the Afghans 
suffer from the loss of these dedicated and courageous aid workers. As 
a result of this brutal attack, critical medical care will no longer be 
available to many of the Afghans who were served by these humanitarian 
workers. We in the United States need to understand that, and we need 
to call for justice. The Afghan authorities must conduct an 
investigation and find these murderers, no matter where they might be 
hiding or receiving sanctuary.

From various reports, there are strong indications that the attackers 
were not local and some were speaking non-Afghan languages. Given the 
location of the attack, the proximity to Taliban strongholds in 
Nuristan, a province that borders volatile areas of Pakistan, and given 
the cross-border nature of the Afghan insurgency, I strongly urge the 
Government of Pakistan to do its utmost to cooperate in rooting out 
extremism on its soil, in particular, the safe havens that exist on the 
Pakistani side that have been the source of many acts of violence in 
both Afghanistan and Pakistan.

The safe havens for the Taliban, the al Qaeda, and the Haqqani 
network must be eradicated.

This attack has been called by some the worst attack on humanitarian 
aid workers in three decades of conflict in Afghanistan. Justice must 
be served so that it never happens again.

To this end, I hope the U.S. Government is seeking to enhance and 
dedicate greater resources to establishing law and order and 
strengthening Afghan institutions to better protect the Afghan people 
and their partners.

In closing, today we honor the brave and selfless humanitarian aid 
workers, doctors, nurses who died on August 5. Their efforts to bring 
healing and care to the Afghans were noble and good.

My thoughts and prayers are with the families of these heroes and 
quiet leaders, as well as with the Afghan people who have suffered so 
many decades of conflict and loss.