---
---

# THE LEAST AMONG US
## `1c19b091345298453bac768e531e01f8`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 20 March 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, it has been said that we will all be judged 
by how we treat the least among us. Nowhere is that more true than in 
Iraq.

Two international headlines tell us of the devastation that is now 
Iraq. The first: ''Silent Victims: What Will Become of Iraq's 
Children?''

And the second: ''World Ignoring Iraqi Refugees.''

These headlines from CNN and the BBC, respectively, tell of the Iraqi 
victims of the occupation. While our brave men and women in uniform 
have done so much to try to improve the lives of average Iraqi 
families, the policies of the Bush administration have failed them and 
failed the Iraqi families in this regard.

A recently released report from the U.N. found that nearly two 
million people have been displaced by the occupation of Iraq. Many of 
these refugees are seeking homes within Jordan and Syria. The report 
estimates that a quarter of these refugees are children, children who 
lack education opportunities and a normal, safe childhood.

It seems like the so-called mission is far from being accomplished. 
Iraqis are begging to leave Iraq's violence and instability. Thousands 
upon thousands of applications for residency in the United States have 
been denied, even for those who served alongside our troops as 
translators and as guides.

Four years ago the President promised an Iraq flourishing under a 
stable democracy. When children are afraid to go to school and parents 
are fearful of even taking a trip to the local market, President Bush's 
promise adds up to a total failure.

One child, a fourth grader, who was profiled in the CNN piece said: 
''They killed me father and uncle in front of my eyes.'' He was unable 
to continue because he broke down and he sobbed. This is the legacy 
that we are leaving for Iraq's future generation.

It is clear that our presence in Iraq is bringing more violence and 
more instability. Our presence may have given rise to a strong and 
deadly terrorist movement within the Iraqi civil war. Let's be honest. 
It is well past time to bring our troops home and let the Iraqi people 
regain their sovereignty.

Let me be clear: we must not withdraw our support of the Iraqi 
people. We should be investing in the political, fiscal, and social 
infrastructure of Iraq. We must help to provide for the most basic 
needs, including education, electricity, drinkable water, sanitation, 
and security. In the now famous words: ''Mr. President, you broke it, 
you buy it.''

My colleagues, it is time to bring our troops home. It is time to 
restore hope for the Iraqi people. It is the very least that we can do.
