---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `1c1f7c982cda00e926298fb28ddf4e8a`
`Mr. KERRY — 21 January 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, yesterday--a historic day--we swore in a 
new President who has the vigor and the vision to restore America's 
place in the world. I think we would all agree that yesterday he made 
very inspiring and bold statements about America and how we will invite 
the world to join us in the efforts to restore our values, in a sense, 
to the center stage of that debate, but also to join in a renewed 
effort to find peace and end conflict. I thought his words, 
particularly to the Muslim world, were very important. We hope, 
obviously, to be able to move on those initiatives as rapidly as 
possible. Already, the new administration is taking crucial, long-
awaited steps to embark on a new era of moral leadership and global 
outreach.

It is an understatement to say these are challenging times. We are 
fighting two wars and the threat of terrorism, as we all know, is as 
strong as ever. As the President said, we labor under gathering clouds 
and raging storms of the severest economic crisis of our lifetime. At 
such a moment, it is essential that we provide the President with the 
tools and the resources he needs to effect change. That starts by 
making sure he has the national security team he has chosen in place as 
soon as possible. Even this afternoon, the President will follow 
through on promises he has made to sit down on day one with his 
national security team, particularly with the military leadership, in 
order to talk about Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and the wars we are 
involved in. That team includes Hillary Clinton as Secretary of State.

I think everyone can agree that at her confirmation hearing, 
Secretary-designate Hillary Clinton demonstrated an impressive grasp of 
the numerous complex foreign policy issues we face and she demonstrated 
why she is going to make such an effective Secretary of State. She has 
the stature to project America's leadership globally and to help build 
alliances at home and abroad. That is going to be vital to our success 
in the years ahead.


Now, I understand the concerns that were raised about fundraising 
activities of the Clinton Foundation. Let me start by saying that 
Secretary-designate Clinton and former President Clinton have 
voluntarily entered into an ethics review and disclosure process with 
respect to donations to former President Clinton's foundation that goes 
well beyond any requirements under the law or any applicable ethics 
regulations. This is an unprecedented situation none of us can contest, 
nor would we. There is no existing blueprint on which to draw here. 
Secretary-designate Clinton and former President Clinton have gone to 
considerable lengths to create a new review process tailored to these 
particular circumstances.

Senator Lugar, myself, and others on the Foreign Relations Committee 
expressed our own concerns about aspects of this new arrangement. We 
went through a thorough review of the relevant agreements that Senator 
Clinton and former President Clinton have entered into. We submitted 
numerous questions for the record, and they were very direct and blunt 
questions. We examined this issue extensively in the lead-up to Senator 
Clinton's nomination hearing, and then again at the hearing itself. 
Senator Lugar at quite some length expressed why he saw some issues 
here and expressed some concerns, but at the same time could not have 
been more clear about his support--enthusiastic support--for Senator 
Clinton assuming these responsibilities. The conclusion we reached was 
whatever the concerns some in this body may have--and we don't contest 
the legitimacy of believing that, as Senator Lugar said, perhaps going 
further would have cleared some of the questions that still exist--but 
that doesn't mean that on the other side there is an automatic--that 
there is a problem. So in essence, none of these questions call into 
question at all Senator Clinton's fitness, readiness, and 
appropriateness in serving as Secretary of State. Senator Lugar, in his 
very clearly stated view with respect to this issue, offered a series 
of well-thought-out additional proposals, and he made clear that 
notwithstanding those proposals--which in his heart and in his mind he 
felt would have simply made this much clearer--he nevertheless was 
clear about his intention, without those being put in place, that he 
felt it was important that Senator Clinton be confirmed. It is 
noteworthy that after a very lengthy discussion about review and 
disclosure and after the full consideration by the committee itself, 
the Foreign Relations Committee passed her nomination out and brought 
it here to the floor by a vote of 16 to 1.

Now, as we think about this issue, for anybody who is not yet decided 
about what they may or may not do, context is very important. The 
Clinton Foundation does extraordinary, worthwhile, lifesaving work in 
areas such as HIV/AIDS, global climate change, and economic development 
in some of the most impoverished corners of this planet. It is 
important to remember that the Clintons do not in any way personally 
benefit financially from the actions of the foundation. So there is 
none of the sort of traditional notion of financial conflict of 
interest. It doesn't exist because there is no personal financial 
interest by either of them. Moreover, according to Secretary-designate 
Clinton, all donations to the Clinton Foundation, including donations 
to the Clinton Global Initiative, will be disclosed publicly. So 
nothing relevant to the measurement of a potential conflict is being 
withheld from the public. Transparency is critically important here, 
obviously, because it allows the American people, the media, and those 
of us here in Congress with an oversight responsibility to be able to 
judge for ourselves that no conflicts, real or apparent, exist.

Senator Clinton was also very clear personally at the hearing and in 
her answers to the questions for the record in saying that she fully 
understands her obligation and her interest in avoiding any kind of 
unwelcome distraction. I take her at her word. I hope the rest of our 
colleagues will do so also.

I understand that Senator Lugar and some others have requested that 
large donations from foreign entities ought to be disclosed more 
frequently than the once-a-year requirement outlined in the agreement. 
I happen to agree that that would have been preferable, but the bottom 
line is that the desired deterrent effect still exists, and the bottom 
line is the public will still know, albeit in a different time frame, 
but it will know what the situation is. Furthermore, all contributions 
by foreign governments will be subject to a review process by the State 
Department's ethics officials. This review will occur prior to the 
receipt of any such contribution, and Senator Clinton has made it clear 
that the process has been designed to avoid even the appearance of a 
conflict of interest. As all of us know, the appearance of a conflict 
under the law is always as critical as the reality of a conflict. It 
stands at the same level of scrutiny and, therefore, I think her 
statement is a very important one.

It is important to note that the pledges for future contributions by 
foreign governments will also be subject to this same review process. 
That was an issue of particular interest to me and some other members 
of the committee, and I appreciate the willingness of Secretary-
designate Clinton and the foundation to address the issues during the 
discussions we had over the memorandum of understanding leading up to 
the hearing. Again, I and others preferred that those pledges might 
have also been subject to disclosure requirements. Still, we take 
comfort in the fact that they are going to be subject to the ethics 
review process and subject also, frankly, to the stated interest 
Senator Clinton expressed before the committee of avoiding any kind of 
conflict or perception issue, and I am confident she is going to bend 
over backward to try to make sure that happens.


So, in the end, I fully respect the questions that have been raised. 
I acknowledge that some members of the committee felt that perhaps the 
final product could have expressed more, but the final product is not 
contained entirely within the framework of the four corners of the 
agreement. It is contained in the framework of the hearings and it is 
contained also in the expressions made publicly by Senator


Clinton about what she intends to do as a matter of personal oversight 
in this effort to live up to the standards that have been expressed.

So I am confident that significant and sufficient checks and balances 
exist and that we should proceed forward and overwhelmingly--I hope 
unanimously but certainly overwhelmingly--confirm Senator Clinton. She 
needs to assume these responsibilities and begin serving the country as 
our Secretary of State. And while the Senate ponders the ethical 
implications of Senator Clinton's charitable work and President 
Clinton's charitable work, we need to remember that the world is moving 
at a fast pace. There isn't time to delay American engagement in 
ongoing crises. Gaza is waiting, the Middle East is waiting, Pakistan, 
Afghanistan, and a host of other issues, and our Secretary of State 
needs to be in place and empowered to engage in discussions that have 
been waiting all these months and weeks now, where President Obama has 
made so clear that we only have one President at a time. Well, now we 
have that President and that President needs and deserves his security 
team.

So I hope my colleagues will join me in appreciating the larger 
importance of this moment, put aside those concerns with an 
appropriate, obvious sort of further expression of them but move 
forward to allow President Obama and his Secretary of State to confront 
the multiple crises and challenges that are going to be the measure of 
our achievement as a country and as a Senate and Congress over the 
course of the next few years.