---
---

# TRIBUTE TO RETIRING MISSOURI ADJUTANT GENERAL KING SIDWELL
## `1c24632537a86084f1cf1a45e50862c5`
`Mr. SKELTON — 5 March 2009`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, let me take this moment to recognize the 
career of Missouri Adjutant General King E. Sidwell. General Sidwell 
retired in late February after serving four years as Adjutant General 
of the Missouri National Guard.

 General Sidwell was born in Sikeston, Missouri, on July 13, 1950. He 
resides with his wife Cindy Sidwell in Sikeston. They have two sons, 
William Mitchell Sidwell II and Trent Easterby Sidwell.

In 1972, General Sidwell earned his Bachelor of Science degree from 
the Georgia Institute of Technology. In 1975, he received his Juris 
Doctorate from the University of Missouri-Columbia and, in 2000, he 
received a Military and Strategic Studies degree from the United States 
Army War College.

General Sidwell has served in the military since 1972. He was 
commissioned as an officer in 1974 through the State Officer Candidate 
School at the Missouri Military Academy. Prior to his serving as 
Adjutant General, Sidwell served in many assignments of increasing 
responsibility, culminating with his command of the Engineer Brigade, 
35th Infantry Division. Upon completion of this command, he assumed the 
position of Assistant Corps Engineer, 35th Engineer Brigade until being 
transferred to the Retired Reserve. It was from the Retired Reserve 
that Sidwell was appointed to the position of Adjutant General.



Under General Sidwell's leadership as Adjutant General, the Missouri 
National Guard developed the concept of and deployed an Agri-business 
Development Team to Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. This 
important agricultural redevelopment plan, which builds upon the 
knowledge and expertise of Missourians familiar with agriculture, is 
now being replicated by other states. The Missouri National Guard also 
equipped and deployed the first Maneuver Enhancement Brigade structure 
to command Multi-national Task Force East Kosovo.

General Sidwell has received numerous military awards. He has also 
been recognized as the Mid-Missouri Communicator of the Year by the 
Public Relations Society of America and as an outstanding leader by the 
Jefferson Barracks. The General is also affiliated with the National 
Guard Association, the American Bar Association, the Defense Research 
Institute, and the Sikeston Area United Way Board of Directors.

As General Sidwell retires from his current post, I trust that the 
Members of the House will join me in thanking him for his exceptional 
commitment to the Missouri National Guard and the safety and security 
of America.
