# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `1c2a950445cfd2d0a22fbfbfb9286f34`
`Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, the situation we are 
facing in Iraq right now is serious. The resolution we are debating 
here tonight, unfortunately, is not.

Everyone agrees the situation on the ground is unacceptable. To make 
it right, we need leadership, resources, and resolve. What we don't 
need is 36 hours of time trading speeches on a nonbinding measure, a 
measure that imparts no new policy, offers no new alternatives, and 
commands no real effect.

Most of the speeches I have heard this week are about the war. On 
that subject, there is plenty of room for disagreement. But the 
resolution before us isn't about the war, it is about a specific 
tactical question: the number of troops we need to deploy to finish the 
job.

I can't think of a group that is less qualified to make strategic and 
tactical decisions on the ground than 535 Members of Congress, sitting 
6,000 miles away on Capitol Hill. Congress shouldn't be in the business 
of micromanaging war tactics.

Should we debate the war in Iraq? Certainly. Can we disagree about 
its goals and purpose? Absolutely. But decisions on the ground need to 
be determined by our military commanders on the scene, and not public 
opinion polls.

Of course, the other responsibility of Congress is, when it comes to 
wars, the power to fund them. As a member of the Appropriations 
Committee, I take that responsibility seriously. But if my colleagues 
on the Appropriations Committee and in the full House think the war is 
a lost cause, if they think that sending more troops to help secure 
Iraq is the wrong strategy, they shouldn't hesitate to cut off the 
funding for the operation. I wouldn't support that measure, but at 
least it would be a measure of genuine intent, not a two-paragraph 
statement on military tactics we have on the floor this week.

Mistakes have been made. But this is a mission that is consistent 
with our vital interest and worthy of our support. I don't believe 
President Bush has prosecuted this war flawlessly, and, frankly, I 
don't believe he has always particularly been well advised. But this 
strategy of reinforcement is not always supported by the President, it 
is supported by the military and the political leadership of Iraq.

People have to understand something. We are facing an enemy like no 
other we have faced before, an ideological enemy driven by hate, not 
reason; an enemy for whom there can be no rest until the freedoms and 
values that define our civilization are destroyed.

Victory is the only outcome that can be accepted. But the resolution 
we are debating on the floor this week was not written with ultimate 
victory in mind; it was written in expectation of defeat. And, unlike 
some of my colleagues, I am not willing to concede to defeat.

So many families have sacrificed so that we can be successful in 
Iraq, and they are willing to sacrifice even more. To cut support for 
them now would be unforgiveable.

You know, Mr. Speaker, watching the debate on the floor this week, my 
thoughts keep going back to the Loudon family who live in my district.

Their son Christopher, a member of his college ROTC program, was 
deployed to Iraq after graduation and came home this fall in a flag-
draped coffin.



Their son Nicholas is a West Point graduate I nominated to the 
Academy, who served with his brother in Iraq, and he is heading back to 
Iraq this weekend for another tour of duty.

Their son Jonathan, their youngest, and another one of my Academy 
nominees, is going to West Point this fall. The Loudon family had great 
concern over whether to send their third and youngest son to West 
Point. In the end, they were swayed by their son's commitment to serve 
his country and their shared belief that his mission is one worth 
fighting for.

If the Loudons can remain strong and committed in the face of the 
most difficult circumstances any family can endure, why can't Congress?

I have gotten other calls from families in my district. One mother 
called this week to tell me that her son, a young man named Nathan 
Stone whom I nominated to West Point in 2001, is currently serving in 
south Baghdad, sweeping the city, going door to door, risking his life 
so the Iraqis can live their lives with a basic security. And do you 
know what he told his mother to relate to me? He told her that they are 
making a difference, they are seeing progress. They need help, they 
need these troops, and they will be excited when they get them.

If First Lieutenant Stone believes that these additional troops are 
vital to him completing his mission in Baghdad, that tells me a lot. 
And if the Loudons can send their youngest son to West Point knowing 
that he may some day be called into service himself, that tells me all 
I need to know.

Mr. Speaker, no one likes war. No one wants our troops to be in Iraq 
one minute longer than they have to be to ensure the mission is 
accomplished. Reasonable people may disagree on strategy, but this 
resolution is not about alternative viewpoints. There are no different 
courses offered, no suggestions, and no responsibility taken.

I stand with the Loudon family and Lieutenant Stone, and vote opposed 
to this resolution.