---
---

# HEROES EARNINGS ASSISTANCE AND RELIEF TAX ACT OF 2008
## `1c480a23cfa3b5a543a0c7660d173c99`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. About a week ago, this Congress passed the most 
comprehensive update of the GI Bill of Rights for both Active Duty, 
Guard and Reserve soldiers. We follow up that legislation with what we 
are doing today to also update our laws as relates to active duty 
soldiers and their families.

The fact is, as my colleague from the Philadelphia area said, this 
war is different. We have noted the difference. We need to adjust our 
policy and our legislation and our laws to the fact that this war has 
gone on longer than anybody predicted, cost more in lives, treasure, 
and reputation than any war in America's past.

So today we take another small step to change our laws to reflect 
this different kind of war to make sure those soldiers and their 
families are represented in the laws we pass today. Now many will talk 
about some of the benefits, and they should. I want to talk about one 
particular provision that I put in here with my colleague from Indiana, 
who you will hear from later, Congressman Ellsworth, about how we pay 
for this, because it doesn't add one penny to the deficit.

It closes down a tax loophole used by KBR, a company, that it set up 
offshore in the Cayman Islands a subsidiary, and it never paid Social 
Security taxes, Medicare taxes, unemployment insurance taxes to 10,000 
workers. Never paid any of those taxes on any of those employees. This 
legislation shuts that down.

Those employees were over there. And what happened? This company gave 
contaminated water to our soldiers, who ended up, many of them, in the 
hospital getting health care by the basic facilities we have over in 
Iraq. Our soldiers got contaminated water, our taxpayers got ripped off 
because they had to cover for another company what they didn't pay in 
their fair share, and a company was set up offshore to do all of that.