---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `1c63ab0355bbed47d3cc3f3d57be2b8a`
`Mr. WARNER — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I note with great respect and approval the 
Senator's comments to support his nomination. The Senator and I have 
discussed this nomination, and I strongly endorse the President's 
nomination of General Lute and welcome the support of our distinguished 
chairman of the committee.

The Senator made reference to General Sheehan and others who 
apparently had some contact with the White House personnel, and others, 
regarding possibly taking on this assignment. In no way can I believe 
their comments should be held against the distinguished nomination of 
General Lute. They are part of the public records, but I think 
sometimes when the President speaks with individuals about the 
possibility of serving him, those matters are best left confidential--
for any President. I certainly treat them that way. I was somewhat 
taken aback by the judgments of General Sheehan and others. No 
disrespect to the chairman, but they are of no significance here.

This is a highly distinguished officer. He fought in the second 
armored cavalry regiment in Operation Desert Storm. He later commanded 
the second armored cavalry regiment in 1998 to 2000, and the 
multinational brigade east in Kosovo in 2002. In 2003, he was assigned 
as deputy director of operations in headquarters European command and, 
in that capacity, played an important role in responding to the 
impending humanitarian crisis in Liberia. It was in that context that I 
first met this distinguished officer.

General Jones was, at that time, NATO commander. I talked with him 
about the problems we were experiencing over the African coast at that 
time. As you may recall, elements of the Marine Corps and other Naval 
units were sent down there to try to--and indeed they did--succeed in 
contributing to a cessation of a lot of the tensions which could have 
erupted into a civil war.

At that time, General Lute was director of operations for the U.S. 
Central Command, where he served over 2 years. I was privileged to join 
him off the coast aboard those naval vessels, and he accompanied me 
when I went in and worked with the Ambassador in the incipient days of 
that potential conflict.

As a key member of the joint staff, I visited him many times in the 
Department of Defense and received excellent briefings from him about 
the worldwide situation. I have witnessed firsthand the extraordinary, 
professional capabilities of this fine officer.

In the estimation of GEN David Petraeus:




 Doug Lute knows Iraq. Doug Lute knows Iraq, the region, and 


 in Washington will be a great addition to the team that is 


 striving to achieve success in Iraq. He is also a doer.


Ambassador Crocker added:




 General Lute's knowledge and experience will make him a 


 valuable partner to our efforts in Iraq. I look forward to 


 working closely with General Lute in the coming months.


There has also been some indication that people are concerned about 
the precedents connected with this assignment. I will put into the 
Record a list of individuals who have served Presidents in this 
capacity over the past years. Notably among them were General Haig, 
military assistant to the President for national security affairs; 
Lieutenant General Scowcroft; Admiral Poindexter; GEN Colin Powell; 
General Kerrick; GEN Michael Hayden, Director of Central Intelligence 
at the present time and on active duty.

I ask unanimous consent that this list be printed in the Record.