# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `1c6563b74f00ddc0bb5cb56c4560c543`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA â€” 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Madam Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

Do any of us really believe that the resolution in front of us today 
is a serious piece of legislation?

Does it discuss or force a debate on the really tough issue of how 
big this conflict is?

Who is it that hates America and others so much that they are willing 
to kill innocent men, women and children?

Again, it does not do that. There are people who hate us enough to 
want to kill. I speak of militant Islam's hate for America, a hate that 
extends to others as well, including Muslims. And these militant 
Islamists kill. They kill violently and indiscriminately.

Who are they?

What should America's response to this threat that we and others face 
on a global basis be?

What is America's response to jihadism?

How will America win this war against this calculating enemy?

How will America lead the world, once again, in the face of such a 
ruthless threat?

What is a jihadist, other than someone or some group so full of hate 
that they are willing to kill?



I have a passion for understanding this threat. These Islamic 
jihadists are a fringe element of Islam who have very specific ideas 
about how to revive Islam, return Muslims to world power, and how to 
deal with their enemies. They are committed to a violent overthrow of 
the existing international system and to its replacement by an all-
encompassing Islamic state, the caliphate, as it is called.

This is more than just about Iraq. It is a much bigger problem. It is 
also clear that this jihad is about them, their god, their religion 
before it becomes anything about anyone or anything else. That is 
right, it is about them before it is about us. And that is why this 
resolution comes up so short because it does not address all of these 
issues.

Madam Speaker, I would like to yield to my colleague from California 
(Mr. Campbell).