# None
## `1c7ad52cce20b9002824926e5a3b8455`
`Mr. JONES of North Carolina — 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, I would like to bring to 
the attention of the House and to the American people a disturbing 
situation involving a shortfall in Iraq aid pledges. This morning 
during a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee, I also brought 
this issue to the attention of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, 
Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, and Admiral Michael Mullen.

On January 30, 2008, USA Today reported that allied countries have 
paid only $2.5 million of the more than $15.8 billion they pledged to 
help rebuild Iraq. The article further reports: ''The biggest 
shortfalls in pledges by 41 donor countries are from Iraq's oil-rich 
neighbors and U.S. allies, namely Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.

Madam Speaker, it is extremely troubling that some of the countries 
that may benefit most from a secure and stable Iraq, particularly its 
neighbors in the region, are not providing the money they pledged to 
help achieve that goal.

The United States, on the other hand, has already spent $29 billion 
to help rebuild Iraq, and Congress has approved an additional $16.5 
billion. And unlike the United States, which is borrowing money from 
foreign governments to pay its bills, many of Iraq's neighbors are 
running record surpluses because of profits their governments receive 
from their national oil companies.

In 2001 a gallon of gasoline cost Americans $1.42. Today that same 
gallon costs us $3.36. In 2001 oil was $28 per barrel. Today that same 
barrel is almost $114. Many of the countries who are falling short on 
their pledges to Iraq are withholding oil production and causing gas 
prices to rise on the American consumer. These countries have the 
economic resources to meet their commitments to Iraq.

Madam Speaker, in a letter on February 8 of this year, I expressed 
these concerns to Secretary Rice. Since then I received a response from 
the Department of State. They say they share my concern that for some 
countries the pace of their assistance to Iraq has been too slow. The 
State Department also indicates that top officials continue to urge 
their government to follow through on their pledges, and with the 
increased successes, the department is working through multilateral 
forums to encourage donors to meet their pledges.

During this morning's hearing, Secretary Rice also pledged that she 
will redouble her efforts to encourage allies in the region to pay 
their way in Iraq. Madam Speaker, out of fairness to the American 
taxpayer, I am hopeful that these efforts will be successful. It is 
time for Arab countries that are running surpluses to start paying 
their share of the bills in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, I have said many times and said it today at the 
hearing that it's our men and women who are in Iraq losing their legs, 
being paralyzed for the rest of their life, and losing their life for 
this country. It is the least that these Arab countries can do that are 
making dollars every time we put gas in our cars. It is time that they 
meet their obligation to fulfill the $15.8 billion that they pledged to 
help rebuild Iraq.

With that, Madam Speaker, before I close, I ask God to continue to 
bless our men and women in uniform, and I ask God to continue to bless 
America.
