---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `1c7ff7dc56510a76c241dfd0f2d98259`
`Mr. McCAIN — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. He said that the violence, as I said, has been reduced by 
some 50 percent, that car bombs and suicide attacks in Baghdad have 
fallen to their lowest levels in a year, and that civilian casualties 
have dropped from a high of 32 per day to 12 per day.

His comments were echoed by LTG Abboud Qanbar, the Iraqi commander, 
who said that before the surge began, one-third of Baghdad's 507 
districts were under insurgents' control. Today, he said, only five to 
six districts can be called hot areas.

I want to be clear to my friend from Wisconsin and my colleagues, 
none of this is to argue that Baghdad or other regions have suddenly 
become safe or that violence has come down to acceptable levels. As 
General Odierno pointed out, violence is still too high and there are 
many unsafe areas. Nevertheless, such positive developments illustrate 
General Petraeus's contention last week that American and Iraqi forces 
have achieved substantial progress under their new strategy.

The road in Iraq remains, as it always has been, long and hard. The 
Maliki government remains paralyzed and unwilling to function as it 
must, and other difficulties abound. No one can guarantee success or be 
certain about its prospects. We can be sure, however, that should the 
Congress succeed in terminating the new strategy by legislating an 
abrupt withdrawal and a transition to a new, less effective, and more 
dangerous course--should we do that, then we will fail for certain.

I wish to remind all of my colleagues of a statement made by the 
President of Iran approximately 1 week ago. Every American should hear 
this statement. Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadi-Nejad declared 
yesterday that U.S. political influence in Iraq was ''collapsing 
rapidly,'' and said Tehran was ready to help fill any power vacuum. He 
stated at a news conference in Tehran, referring to U.S. troops in 
Iraq:




 The political power of the occupiers is collapsing rapidly. 


 Soon, we will see a huge power vacuum in the region. Of 


 course, we are prepared to fill the gap, with the help of 


 neighbors and regional friends like Saudi Arabia, and with 


 the help of the Iraqi Nation.


That is what this is about. That is what this is about. Let us make 
no mistake about the cost of such an American failure in Iraq. In his 
testimony before the Armed Services Committee last week, General 
Petraeus referred to an August Defense Intelligence Agency report that 
stated:




 A rapid withdrawal would result in the further release of 


 strong centrifugal forces in Iraq and produce a number of 


 dangerous results, including a high risk of disintegration of 


 the Iraqi Security Forces; a rapid deterioration of local 


 security initiatives; al-Qaida-Iraq regaining lost ground and 


 freedom of maneuver; a marked increase in violence and 


 further ethno-sectarian displacement and refugee flows; and 


 exacerbation of already challenging regional dynamics, 


 especially with respect to Iran.


These are the likely consequences of a precipitous withdrawal, and I 
hope the supporters of such a move will tell us how they intend to 
address the chaos and catastrophe that would surely follow such a 
course of action. Should this amendment become law, and U.S. troops 
begin withdrawing, do they believe Iraq would become more or less 
stable? That the Iraqi people become more or less safe? That genocide 
becomes a more remote possibility or even likelier? That al-Qaida will 
find it easier to gather, plan, and carry out attacks from Iraqi soil, 
or that our withdrawal will somehow make this less likely?

No matter where my colleagues came down in 2002 about the centrality 
of Iraq to the war on terror, there can simply be no debate that our 
efforts in Iraq today are critical to the wider struggle against 
violent Islamic extremism. Earlier this month, GEN Jim Jones, who was 
widely quoted by opponents of this new strategy, testified before the 
Armed Services Committee and outlined what he believes to be the 
consequences of such a course.




 A precipitous departure which results in a failed state in 


 Iraq, will have a significant boost in the numbers of 


 extremists, jihadists in the world, who will believe they 


 will have toppled the major power on earth and that all else 


 is possible. And I think it will not only make us less safe; 


 it will make our friends and allies less safe. And the 


 struggle will continue. It will simply be done in different 


 and in other areas.


I don't see how General Jones could have made himself more clear and 
succinct, and yet I continue to hear selective quotes from his 
commissioned reports and his testimony that somehow would lead people 
to believe he would support such a proposal as being made today by my 
friend from Wisconsin.



Should we leave Iraq before there is a basic level of stability, we 
invite chaos, genocide, terrorist safe havens, and regional war. We 
invite further Iranian influence at a time when Iranian operatives are 
already moving weapons, training fighters, providing resources, and 
helping plan operations to kill American soldiers and damage our 
efforts to bring stability to Iraq. If our notions of national security 
have any meaning, they cannot include permitting the establishment of 
an Iranian-dominated Middle East that is roiled by wider regional war 
and riddled with terrorist safe havens.

The supporters of this amendment respond they do not by any means 
intend to cede the battlefield to al-Qaida. On the contrary, their 
legislation would allow U.S. forces, presumably holed up in forward 
operating bases, to carry out ''targeted operations, limited in 
duration and scope, against members of al-Qaida and other international 
terrorist organizations.'' But such a provision draws a false 
distinction between terrorism and sectarian violence. Let us think 
about the implications of ordering American soldiers to target 
''terrorists'' but not those who foment sectarian violence. Was the 
attack on the Golden Mosque in Samarra a terrorist operation or the 
expression of sectarian violence? When the Madhi army attacks 
government police stations, are they acting as terrorists or as a 
militia? When AQI attacks a Shia village along the Diyala River, is 
that terrorism or sectarian violence? What about when an American 
soldier comes across some unknown assailant burying an IED in the road? 
Must he check for an al-Qaida identity card before responding?

The obvious answer is such acts very often constitute terrorism in 
Iraq and sectarian violence in Iraq. The two are deeply intertwined. To 
try to make an artificial distinction between terrorism and sectarian 
violence is to fundamentally misunderstand al-Qaida's strategy, which 
is to incite sectarian violence. It is interesting that some supporters 
of this amendment embrace the recent GAO report, which said it could 
not distinguish between sectarian violence and other forms of violence 
because that would require determining an intent--an impossible task. 
Yet these same supporters would have our troops in the field attempt to 
do just that. Our military commanders say trying to artificially 
separate counterterrorism from counterinsurgency will not succeed, and 
that moving in with search-and-destroy missions to kill and capture 
terrorists only to immediately cede the territory to the enemy is the 
failed strategy of the past 4 years. We should not and must not return 
to such a disastrous course.


The strategy General Petraeus has put into place--a traditional 
counterinsurgency strategy that emphasizes protecting the population, 
which gets our troops out of the bases and into the areas they are 
trying to protect, and which supplies sufficient force levels to carry 
out the mission--is the correct one. It has become clear by now we 
cannot set a date for withdrawal without setting a date for surrender.

This fight is about Iraq, but not about Iraq alone. It is greater 
than that and more important still about whether America still has the 
political courage to fight for victory or whether we will settle for 
defeat, with all the terrible things that accompany it. We cannot walk 
away gracefully from defeat in this war. Consider one final statement 
from the August National Intelligence Estimate. It reads:




 We assess that changing the mission of the Coalition forces 


 from a primarily counterinsurgency and stabilization role to 


 a primary combat support role for Iraqi forces and 


 counterterrorist operations to prevent AQI from establishing 


 a safe haven would erode any security gains achieved thus 


 far.


Should we pass this amendment, we would erode the security gains our 
brave men and women have fought so hard to achieve and embark on the 
road of surrender. For the sake of American interests, our national 
values, the future of Iraq, and the stability of the Middle East, we 
must not send our country down this disastrous course. All of us want 
our troops to come home, and to come home as soon as possible. But we 
should want our soldiers to return to us with honor, the honor of 
victory that is due all of those who have paid with the ultimate 
sacrifice. We have many responsibilities to the people who elected us, 
but one responsibility outweighs all the others, and that is to protect 
this great and good Nation from all enemies foreign and domestic. I 
urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on the Feingold amendment.

Madam President, I yield the floor.