---
---

# None
## `1c861875098089902479bc826b3560e2`
`Mrs. BOXER — 25 February 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I take this opportunity to observe the 
100th anniversary of the U.S. Army Reserve and to recognize its 
installations in California that comprise the U.S. Army Combat Support 
Training Center, CSTC.

Initially established by Congress in 1908 to provide a reserve force 
of medical officers, today's Army Reserve is a vital operational 
component in the world's most powerful and sophisticated Army. The Army 
Reserve provides the specialized skills and manpower the Army depends 
on and currently assists the Army in locations worldwide, including 
Iraq, Afghanistan, the Horn of Africa, the Philippines, and Latin 
America. As a result of their extensive peacetime and wartime 
accomplishments over the last 100 years, the men and women who have 
served and continue to volunteer to serve in the U.S. Army Reserve 
deserve the greatest respect and admiration.

Established in June 2005, CSTC is the Army's newest training center 
and the first of its kind to serve as a premier training center for 
Army Reserve soldiers in the Western United States. CSTC provides 
ranges, training areas, and facilities to prepare and train Army 
Reserve soldiers and encompasses four geographically separated 
installations throughout northern and central California: Moffett Field 
in the city of Mountain View, B.T. Collins Army Reserve Center in the 
city of Sacramento, Camp Parks in the city of Dublin, and Fort Hunter 
Liggett in southern Monterey County.

Until 1993, Camp Parks and Fort Hunter Liggett were separate 
installations under the control of the U.S. Army Reserve Command, 
USARC. However, in 1995, USARC placed these two posts under Fort McCoy, 
WI, which in turn developed the original CSTC concept. With 
headquarters at Camp Parks, which oversees the base operations, 
training facilities, and housing assets of Fort Hunter Liggett and Camp 
Parks, the CSTC also provides military housing at Moffett Field and 
lodging and dining facilities at the B.T. Collins Army Reserve Center.

I commend the CSTC for its success in providing the training grounds, 
facilities, and support to Army Reserve soldiers. The world-class 
support and training reservists receive at CSTC is worthy of the utmost 
praise. I commend the U.S. Army Reserve for 100 years of stellar 
service to our State and Nation. I will continue to support the Army 
Reserve as a vital component of America's national defense.
