---
---

# None
## `1c9845cc260cdc966b9c51fa461f7352`
`Mr. LEAHY — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I support the Feingold-Reid-Leahy Amendment 
because it specifically requires the President to begin the 
redeployment of American forces in Iraq within 90 days. Within 9 months 
of enactment, the redeployment would be completed and funding 
terminated for Iraq operations with narrow exceptions for a limited 
number of counterterrorism, force protection, and troop training 
missions.

The President's so-called ''surge'' is just another word for 
escalation. It has failed to set the lasting conditions for peace. 
Violence, though down, still continues at horrifying rates. The various 
Iraqi factions have made little progress towards political 
reconciliation. The deadly rifts in that war-torn country have only 
grown deeper. The Iraqi government has done little to support the few 
encouraging trends like the willingness of some Sunni groups to turn 
against the insurgency.

The only thing that is going to force the Iraqis to come to terms--
the only way to get Iraq's neighbors involved in bringing about peace 
there--is to make clear that our country is not going to be there 
forever. We cannot afford to spend more of our precious resources and 
to spill more of the precious blood of our troops if the Iraqis will 
not take responsibility for their own future.

There is a way to begin to right the wrongs of the President's failed 
policy on Iraq. That better path involves effective diplomacy and a 
strong signal about our finite military presence in Iraq, not this 
senseless waste of money and lives. The Feingold-Reid-Leahy Amendment 
offers the real promise of a long-term positive outcome for our 
security and the people of Iraq. I urge the amendment's adoption.