---
---

# FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT
## `1c9baac5134f403dc32f574c7ff98bab`
`Mr. GREGG — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I rise to speak briefly about one of the 
issues that has been debated over these 2 days, which is the 
reauthorization of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. This 
bill, which passed the Senate in a bipartisan way, is now sitting in 
the House. This bill is critical to our national security.

I know there are some who will argue that the bill represents a 
threat in some way to American civil liberties. From my standpoint, 
nothing is more important to me than protecting the rights of Americans 
under the terms of our Constitution.

One of the terms of our Constitution is that the Federal Government 
has the responsibility to protect the American citizens and America 
from attacks by enemies. That is what we swear an oath to, by the way, 
when we take this job, to protect and defend this Nation.

We know for a fact that the forces of Islamic fundamentalists, which 
are led by fanatical individuals, have committed themselves to 
attacking our Nation, destroying our culture, and killing Americans. We 
have already seen their actions take place in the 1990s when they 
attacked the warship USS Cole, when they attacked our Embassies in 
Africa, and, of course, on 9/11.

We also know for a fact that our best weapon of self-defense in this 
war is to be on the offense, to find them before they can harm us. That 
is one of the reasons we are in Iraq and in Afghanistan.

The great advantage we have in this war is the sophistication of our 
Nation. Obviously, the greatest advantage we have is we have the cause 
of right on our side--freedom, democracy, and liberty. But the great 
tactical advantage we have is the sophistication of our Nation and our 
capacity to use that sophistication in the area of our military


and in the area of our intelligence gathering to defeat these people 
before they attack us. At the essence of this, at the center of this is 
the ability to gather effective intelligence.

We cannot stop someone who wants to attack us if we wait until they 
commit the act. This is not like a criminal situation where somebody 
goes out and robs a bank and then we go and find them. This is a 
situation where people want to use every weapon at their disposal, and 
if they get a weapon of mass destruction, they will use it to try to 
kill hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of innocent civilians, and 
Americans specifically, in order to carry out their perverse purpose of 
promoting what they see as their Islamic faith, as they interpret it.

We cannot be so naive as to believe these people are not out there 
and intending to pursue these courses of action when they have made it 
absolutely clear that is what they intend to do, when they have said 
innumerable times that is what they intend to do, and when they have 
actually done it by attacking us on 9/11.

To stop them, we have to find them before they can harm us. And the 
way we find them is we use, in part, our great advantage in the area of 
tracking them through electronic surveillance. And that is what the 
FISA bill is all about--giving the legal tools necessary to totally 
dedicated American citizens who man agencies, such as the National 
Security Agency, the Defense Department, the CIA, the State Department, 
and the FBI--to give those individuals who are totally dedicated to 
finding the people who want to attack us the tools necessary to do 
that, and to do that in a way that protects Americans' rights and civil 
liberties. This law does accomplish exactly that. No American can have 
their calls intercepted or overheard intentionally unless there has 
been a court review of that decision and a court order approving that 
action.

This law is directed not at Americans, it is directed at foreigners--
not Americans--whose purpose it is to do us harm, and they do not have 
the same rights as Americans. They should not. Their purpose is to 
destroy America. Why would we give them American rights? Yet for some 
reason the House of Representatives refuses to act on this critical 
issue in the area of giving our people who work for us, who work for 
the American people, and who are trying to protect America, the tools 
they need to accomplish that. It makes no sense to me at all.

Some argue the force behind denying this right and these authorities 
to the people who have responsibility to monitor these foreign 
activities and foreign individuals, these Islamic fundamentalists who 
wish to do us harm, the terrorists, the people who wish to limit that 
right wish to do so because they want to give the trial lawyers more 
capacity to bring lawsuits against the telephone companies, which are, 
obviously, an integral part of any electronic monitoring that is going 
to go on. I think that is unfortunate if that is the case.

We have asked these various groups, these corporations--remember, 
they are made up of American citizens. An American corporation is 
nothing more than a group of American citizens who have gotten 
together. Most of these corporations are pension funds which involve 
pensions of people who work at day-to-day jobs. Most Americans have 
some interest in stock through their pension funds, and these stocks 
are the companies that, basically, we are talking about, the telephone 
companies, in many instances.

These companies are being asked, and have been enlisted, and have 
been asked in the past to participate in protecting America. When the 
Government does something such as that, I think the Government also has 
a responsibility to say to those companies and their stockholders and 
their employees, many of whom are Americans, many of whom are working 
Americans, obviously, the ones who work for them and the stockholders 
who have pension funds who invest in them, that they should have 
protection from lawsuits which are basically inappropriately pursued 
because these companies are doing the bidding of the American 
Government as we try to protect the American people.

For some reason, the desire to energize those lawsuits has held up 
the ability to give the tools necessary to our intelligence community 
to pursue surveillance of very evil people who intend to do us harm.

It would be a great tragedy and a terrible outcome of this situation 
if America is attacked and that attack could have been thwarted or 
muted if we had the intelligence which would have been able to be 
gathered by electronic surveillance which would be made available 
through the authorities of FISA. It would be a true tragedy. I cannot 
imagine the recrimination that would occur in this country from the 
American people were we to be attacked and then discover that the 
information which might have thwarted that attack was unable to be 
obtained because the law which gave people the authority to pursue that 
type of information through electronic surveillance was being held up 
in the House of Representatives because the trial lawyers want a cause 
of action against the telephone companies.

It is incomprehensible to me that we have gotten to this point in the 
process of trying to develop our defense as a nation against people who 
clearly exist and who have expressed their intent so clearly and who 
have executed on that intent, as was shown on 9/11.

I cannot imagine that when a bill passes the Senate which has 
bipartisan support--this is not a partisan issue. It should not be a 
partisan issue. It has bipartisan support. It came out of the Senate, 
and it has been worked out between the leaders of the key committees in 
the Senate in a way that protects American civil liberties--that such a 
bill which gives the authority to those we ask to protect us, the 
authority they need to pursue the course of action they see is 
appropriate in electronic surveillance, that such a bill would be 
stopped in the House of Representatives out of what appears to be a 
tangential question of lawsuits--tangential in the sense that nothing 
is more critical to this whole exercise than protecting Americans from 
attack.

I join my colleagues who have risen over the last couple of days to 
express their frustration with the failure of the House of 
Representatives to act in this area. We need the House to act on the 
Senate bill, pass it, send it down to the President, and have it signed 
so that the people who we ask to protect us through electronic 
surveillance of terrorists who do not have the rights of Americans and 
who are not American, so that electronic surveillance can continue.


Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.