---
---

# None
## `1ca686b583e7a05b73c0663929d2c2b3`
`Mr. CORNYN — 22 July 2009`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I want to speak briefly about a very 
important amendment, amendment No. 1725, which I think will help us 
restore the franchise, the vote, to our deployed military overseas. 
This is a bipartisan amendment. The lead sponsors are Senator Chuck 
Schumer and Senator Bob Bennett, the chairman and ranking member of the 
Rules Committee, but this builds on the work Senator Begich and I, 
Senator Chambliss, and others have put into this effort to address what 
can only be described as a national disgrace.

Our military service members put their lives on the line to protect 
our rights and our freedoms. Yet many of them still face substantial 
roadblocks


when it comes to something as simple as casting their ballots and 
participating in our national elections. Sadly, this is not a new 
problem. President Truman urged Congress to address obstacles to voting 
faced by troops serving in Korea. Today, however, troops deployed in 
Afghanistan and Iraq face many of the same problems.

In 2006, less than half of the military voters who requested absentee 
ballots were successful in casting them, according to the U.S. Election 
Assistance Commission.

In 2008, those problems continued. More than a quarter of the ballots 
requested by uniformed and overseas voters went either uncollected or 
uncounted, according to a recent survey of seven States with high 
military voting populations.

In a soon to be released study of the 2008 cycle which looked at 20 
States with large military populations, the Heritage Foundation has 
concluded that as many as three-quarters of our troops and their family 
members were ''disenfranchised by their inability to request an 
absentee ballot'' and that as many as one-third of the ballots that 
were requested never reached the appropriate election officials to be 
counted.

Voting has remained a challenge for our troops and their families for 
many reasons. First, our election laws are complex and multiple levels 
of government are involved. Election challenges and other unforeseen 
events can delay the finalization of ballots. The high tempo of 
military operations often requires frequent deployments for our troops 
and their families.

Let me describe what this amendment, which I hope we will adopt later 
today, does.

Our legislation addresses several of the biggest roadblocks our 
troops and their families face when attempting to vote. First, this 
legislation will provide voter assistance services to every service 
member and family member upon transfer to a new military installation. 
As part of each installation's in-processing, every service member will 
now be offered an opportunity to fill out a simple form the Department 
of Defense will return to the appropriate election officials. That form 
will update the address on file with election officials and request 
absentee ballots for the next Federal election cycle. These voter 
assistance services will give our military personnel some of the 
support that civilians now enjoy through motor voter laws.

Second, this legislation reduces the reliance on snail male for 
correspondence between troops and their election officials. Under 
current election laws, many troops must mail a request for an absentee 
ballot, then wait for the election officials to mail them the blank 
ballot, and then to return the completed ballot in time to be counted. 
This legislation requires elections officials to create electronic 
blank ballots and to post them online. Election officials must also 
accept faxes and e-mails to expedite correspondence with our troops.

Together, these reforms will reduce dependence on snail mail until 
the service member is ready to return the completed ballot to be 
counted.

Third, this legislation will expedite the return of the completed 
ballot to election officials. Under current law, each servicemember is 
responsible for making sure his or her ballot is postmarked and 
returned on time. This legislation requires the Department of Defense 
to take possession of completed ballots and ensure that they get to 
election officials on time by using Express Mail, if necessary.

This legislation also requires election officials to give our troops 
45 days, at least, to return their ballots.

This important amendment contains many other commonsense reforms 
suggested by other Senators and will help end the effective 
disenfranchisement of our troops and their families. Our goal has been 
to balance responsibilities between elections officials and the 
Department of Defense, and I believe this amendment accomplishes that 
goal.

As I said, this amendment would not be in its current posture without 
the leadership of Senator Schumer and Senator Bennett. And I appreciate 
them working to include two pieces of legislation I introduced earlier 
this year, something called the Military Voting Protection Act, which, 
just this weekend was unanimously endorsed by the National Association 
of Secretaries of State, and a second piece of legislation called the 
Military Voters' Equal Access to Registration Act. These two pieces of 
legislation have received broad bipartisan support from the beginning, 
including Senators Begich, Inhofe, Wyden, Vitter, and Hutchison. We 
have also worked closely with leaders in the House of Representatives, 
especially Congressmen Kevin McCarthy and Duncan Hunter.

All of our work was not done in Washington. We relied on support and 
technical assistance from the Texas Secretary of State's Office, 
especially our Director of Elections, Ann McGeehan, dozens of military 
support organizations and veterans service organizations, and many 
other citizens and patriots who want our troops to enjoy their right to 
vote--that it be protected, particularly for those who defend all of 
us.

I urge all of our colleagues to support this amendment when it comes 
to the Senate floor, I hope, later on today, and to give this important 
amendment our unanimous consent.

I yield the floor.