---
---

# None
## `1ca83a81321b60db727b89eabfeb60c7`
`Mr. WU — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. WU. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I don't know how we got on the subject of gasoline 
prices because we're here to talk about SBIR and STTR. But if we want 
to talk about the price of gasoline, I think that the reason why we 
have $4-a-gallon gasoline is because this administration got us into an 
unnecessary war in Iraq and that drove up the price of gasoline at 
least $2 a gallon. So if you want to talk about gasoline, let's talk 
about the war in Iraq.

Now let's return to the subject of SBIR and STTR. The last time that 
we authorized either one of these problems, the SBIR program, was in 
the 106th Congress. The bill was marked up by the Small Business 
Committee and discharged by the Science Committee. I would note that 
the bill was not even referred to a subcommittee of the Science 
Committee. The bill then proceeded to the floor under a suspension of 
the rules. And we all know that as a suspension bill, there was 
absolutely no opportunity to offer an amendment to the underlying 
legislation.

Again, the last time that we authorized STTR, which was in the 107th 
Congress, the bill was marked up by the full Small Business Committee 
and discharged by both the Subcommittee on Environment, Technology, and 
Standards and by the full Science Committee without any Science 
Committee markup. The bill then proceeded to the floor under a 
suspension of the rules, and again there was absolutely no opportunity 
to amend the bill.

What do we have today? We have 17 amendments on the floor. We have 17 
amendments made in order by the Rules Committee here on the floor.

Who's running an open process?