# CALLING ON THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN TO RELEASE DR. HALEH ESFANDIARI
## `1cb9385fbccdac968543949377f70b3d`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Tennessee (Mr. 
Tanner) for his leadership on the Foreign Affairs Committee and for our 
national security interests around the world, and I thank the chairman 
of the committee, Mr. Lantos, and the ranking member, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, 
for their bipartisan support in sending a strong message to the 
government of Iran that their actions are absolutely unacceptable and 
to pass this legislation to immediately and unconditionally release the 
Americans of Iranian descent that are being held by the government of 
Iran.

It was on May 30 of 2007, just a few weeks ago, the day after 
Washington and Tehran held their high profile talks with respect to 
Iraq that Iran turned around and charged three Iranian Americans, one 
academic, Haleh Esfandiari, a social scientist, Kian Tajbakhsh, and a 
journalist, Parnaz Azima, with spying, a charge which under Iran's 
Islamic law is punishable by death.

These trumped up charges are absolutely ridiculous. Haleh Esfandiari 
is a constituent of mine. She lives in Bethesda, Maryland. She is a 67-
year-old Director of the Middle East program at the Woodrow Wilson 
International Center for Scholars. Kian Tajbakhsh is a respected social 
scientist who is consulted by George Soros' Open Society Institute at 
the World Bank, and Parnaz Azima is a Radio Farda journalist.

The government of Iran accused these Iranian Americans of endangering 
state security and fomenting a, quote, soft revolution. These are 
ridiculous charges under any circumstances and clearly an excuse by 
Iran to once again take action in violation of international law.

Just to emphasize the point, Ms. Esfandiari is someone who has 
invited scholars and statesmen from Iran to the United States to 
conferences and events and has even been criticized by some members of 
the Iranian American community for being too soft on the current regime 
in Tehran. Mr. Tajbakhsh has consulted directly for the Iranian 
government and, working with the Open Society Institute, helped run its 
humanitarian health outreach program in Iran with full cooperation of 
the Iranian government.

The lists of foreign detainees doesn't stop there. Iranian American 
businessman Ali Shakeri, who is on the board of the University of 
California at Irvine's Center for Citizen Peacebuilding, was arrested 
on May 8 as he returned to the United States from visiting his ill 
mother, who died during his stay.

These detainees have dedicated their lives to building bridges 
between the Americans and the people of Iran. Their presence in Iran to 
visit their parents or to conduct humanitarian work poses absolutely no 
threat to the people or the government of Iran.

Their detention is a gross perversion of the rule of law. And the 
claim that


the Iranian government has made that they seek dialogue and improved 
relations with the West is belied by the actions they have taken with 
respect to these individuals.

So we call today upon the Iranian government to do as they say they 
want to do, which is to have a better relationship with the United 
States and the people of the United States and to immediately, 
unconditionally release these Americans.