---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `1cc2e161c9e041d6fa9d481bad8f0020`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 19 March 2009`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I wish to share my thoughts about the 
nomination of Elena Kagan to be Solicitor General.

I have strong concerns about her nomination and will not support her 
nomination. I do believe the President, like all Presidents, should be 
entitled to a reasonable degree of deference in selecting executive 
branch nominees. But for some of the reasons I will set out, and one in 
particular, I am not able to support this nomination and will not 
support it.

I believe her record shows a lack of judgment and experience to serve 
as the Nation's chief legal advocate--a position many have referred to 
as the Supreme Court's ''tenth Justice.'' It is also a position that 
has been called the best lawyer job in the world.

Well, so far as I can observe, other than time in the White House 
Counsel's Office, Dean Kagan has only practiced law for 2 years in a 
real law firm practicing law. She had very limited experience in the 
things you would look for in a person of this nature.

But let me discuss one defining moment in her career that I was sort 
of indirectly involved in because of legislation that was percolating 
in the Congress, in the Senate and in the House, and it means a lot to 
me.

During her tenure as dean, Ms. Kagan barred the U.S. military from 
coming on the Harvard Law School campus to recruit young law graduates 
to be JAG officers in the U.S. military. That was from November of 2004 
through September of 2005. She barred them from coming and recruiting 
on campus while 150,000 of our finest men and women in this country 
were serving in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan and during a time in 
which 938 troops died in combat, preserving the rights of people like 
law deans, faculty, and students to have all the opinions they want. 
Her decision to bar the military from her campus during a time of armed 
conflict represents exceedingly poor judgment and leadership, 
particularly for someone who wants to lead the Department of Justice, 
the executive branch, and support the military of the United States.

By refusing to allow military recruiters on the Harvard Law School 
campus, she placed her own opposition to military policies above the 
need of our military men and women to receive good legal advice, even 
from Harvard lawyers. And she did so at a time when the military, 
serving in conflicts in two foreign countries, was facing a host of 
complex legal issues. We are still fighting over them, for that 
matter. Maybe it would have helped if we had some of those graduates 
participating in them.


I don't believe she ever had a basis to have barred the military from 
her school's campus, and I believe she should have had the judgment to 
realize the signal and the impact that was being sent to our military 
and to the students who want to support and serve in the military. 
Indeed, President Obama should have realized the signal he was sending 
by nominating her to this position.

Flagg Youngblood wrote an op-ed in the Washington Times on January 30 
and this is what that op-ed stated. I will quote from that article. I 
think it makes a point. This is a military person:




 Since the Solicitor General serves as the advocate for the 


 interests of the American people to the Supreme Court, we're 


 expected to believe Kagan is the best choice? Her nomination 


 smacks of special interest, aimed at protecting the Ivy 


 League's out-of-touch elitism at the expense of students, 


 taxpayers, and our military alike.



 And what about the qualified students who desire to serve 


 our country?


In the military, he is referring to.




 Second-class, back-of-the-bus treatment, that's what they 


 get, typically having to make time-consuming commutes to 


 other schools and, much worse, the ill-deserved disdain of 


 faculty and peers on their own campuses.



 The military, nobly and selflessly, stands alert at 


 freedom's edge, ready to defend our Nation in times of 


 crisis, and should therefore be honored, and, as most 


 Americans would argue, given preferential treatment, for 


 guarding the liberties that academics such as Kagan profess 


 to protect.



 That's precisely why Congress intervened more than a decade 


 ago, at the behest of a large majority of Americans who 


 recognize and appreciate what our military does, to fulfill 


 the Constitution's call for a common defense among the few, 


 enumerated Federal powers. And, to stop financing those who 


 undermine that fundamental duty. Yet, leftwing views like 


 Kagan's still disparage the sacrifices our military makes and 


 cause real, quantifiable harm to students and to our Nation 


 at taxpayer expense.


Well, Mr. Youngblood's editorial--he felt deeply about that--
deserves, I think, extra force and credibility because he was affected 
by similar policies when he tried to participate in ROTC while 
attending Yale University during the 1990s. Due to Yale's exclusion of 
the ROTC from campus, Mr. Youngblood was forced to travel because he 
wanted to serve his country, 70 miles to commute to the University of 
Connecticut to attend the military ROTC classes. His ordeal--and many 
like it--led to the passage of the Solomon amendment, which is the 
Federal law that requires colleges to allow military recruiters on 
campus in order to be eligible for Federal funds.

Well, let me say, that amendment didn't order any university to admit 
anybody or to allow anybody to come on campus; it simply says when you 
get a bunch of money from the Federal Government, you at least need to 
let the military come and recruit students if they would like to join 
the U.S. military and not exclude them.

So the Solomon amendment is critically important here because it 
shows that Ms. Kagan's decision to block the military from Harvard Law 
School's campus was not just wrong as a matter of public and military 
policy. It was also clearly wrong as a matter of law. While dean at 
Harvard, Ms. Kagan was a vocal critic of the Solomon amendment. She 
called the law immoral. She wrote a series of e-mails to the Harvard 
Law School community complaining about the Solomon amendment and its 
requirement--horrors--that federally funded universities, if they 
continue to get Federal money, ought to allow military recruiters on 
campus or lose the Federal money. She thought that was horrible.

I should note that Harvard receives hundreds of millions of dollars 
in Federal funding: $473 million in 2003, $511 million in 2004, and 
$517 million in 2005. That is a lot of money. The Federal highway 
budget that goes to the State of Alabama is about $500 million a year. 
Harvard University gets that much. By opposing the Solomon amendment, 
Ms. Kagan wanted Harvard to be able to receive these large amounts of 
taxpayers' dollars without honoring Congress's and President Clinton's 
judgment that military recruiters were eligible to come on campus. 
Under the Solomon amendment, Harvard has always had the option of 
declining Federal funds and relying on its big endowment--$34 billion--
and their tuition to fund the university. Much smaller institutions, 
such as Hillsdale College, have chosen to decline Federal funds to 
carry out their full academic independence. Harvard and Dean Kagan were 
not willing to do so. They wanted both. They wanted money and the right 
to kick out the military.

I think she showed her legal judgment regarding the Solomon amendment 
in 2005 when she joined in an amicus brief of Harvard Law School 
professors to the U.S. Supreme Court in Rumsfeld v. FAIR, opposing the 
Solomon Amendment's application to Harvard Law School. Unlike the chief 
litigant--the formal appeal group--in the case, which raised a 
straightforward first amendment challenge to the Solomon amendment, the 
brief Ms. Kagan joined with other Harvard Law School professors made a 
novel argument of statutory interpretation that was too clever for the 
Supreme Court.

Her brief argued that Harvard Law School did not run afoul of the 
letter of the Solomon amendment because Harvard law school did not have 
a policy of expressly barring the military from campus. Harvard, she 
argued, barred recruiters who discriminate from campus. Her brief 
reasoned that the Solomon amendment shouldn't apply


where the military wasn't singled out, but just ran afoul of a school's 
nondiscrimination policy.

Ms. Kagan's argument was considered by the U.S. Supreme Court and the 
U.S. Supreme Court upheld the Solomon amendment. In specifically 
addressing Ms. Kagan's amicus brief with the Harvard professors, Chief 
Justice Roberts, writing for the Court, dismissed Ms. Kagan's novel 
statutory interpretation theory using these words:




 That is rather clearly not what Congress had in mind in 


 codifying the DOD policy. We refuse to interpret the Solomon 


 amendment in a way that negates its recent revision, and 


 indeed would render it a largely meaningless exercise.


It is telling also to note that the brief she signed on to was unable 
to convince a single Justice of the Supreme Court to go along with it--
not even Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg who was once general counsel to 
the American Civil Liberties Union.

Let me mention one more thing people have mentioned about the Kagan 
decision to bar the military from recruiting on the Harvard campus. 
Some may have heard that the decision to bar the military was merely 
honoring a ruling of the Third Circuit, which briefly ruled against the 
Solomon amendment on a split decision in Rumsfeld v. FAIR. It is 
critical to note that the Third Circuit's ruling never went into effect 
because the case was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court and the Third 
Circuit stayed enforcement of its decision. In other words, the Third 
Circuit said: Yes, we have rendered it. We understand our opinion is 
under appeal. We are not going to issue a mandate or an injunction that 
our opinion has to be followed. We will allow this case to be decided 
ultimately by the Supreme Court of the United States.

No injunction was ever entered against enforcement of the Solomon 
amendment. Any decision by any dean to reject the Solomon amendment and 
not enforce it was not required by law. The law stayed in effect. In 
fact, Dean Kagan acknowledged that in an e-mail to the Harvard Law 
School community in 2005. There was a lot of controversy about this at 
Harvard. A lot of people weren't happy about it, you can be sure. She 
admitted in that e-mail that she had barred the military from campus, 
even though no injunction was in place, saying:




 Although the Supreme Court's action meant that no 


 injunction applied against the Department of Defense, I 


 reinstated the application of our anti-discrimination policy 


 to the military . . . ; as a result, the military did not 


 receive assistance during our spring 2005 recruiting season.


So it is clear that the barring of the military took place while the 
Solomon amendment was, in effect, the law of the land. Her e-mail 
indicates she understood that at the time. As a result, students who 
wanted to consider a military career were not allowed to meet with the 
recruiters on campus. The military was even forced to threaten Harvard 
University's Federal funding in order to get the military readmitted to 
campus as time went on. This was all a big deal. The Congress was 
talking about it. We had debate on it right here on the floor and in 
the Judiciary Committee, of which I am a member.

I think a nominee to be the Department of Justice's chief advocate 
before the Supreme Court, to hold the greatest lawyer job in the world, 
should have a record of following the law and not flouting it. The 
nominee should, if anything, be a defender of the U.S. military and not 
one who condemns them. Ms. Kagan's personal political views, I think, 
are what led to this criticism of the military, this blocking of the 
military. She opposed a plain congressional act that was put into place 
after we went through years of discussion and pleading with some of 
these universities that were barring the military. They had refused to 
give in, so we passed a law that said, OK, you don't have to admit the 
military, but we don't have to give you money, and we are not giving 
you any if you don't admit them. They didn't like that. So Ms. Kagan's 
refusal of on-campus military recruiters went against a congressional 
act. Her actions were an affront to our men and women then in combat 
and now in combat. The Solicitor General should be a person who is 
anxious and eager and willing to defend these kinds of statutes and to 
defend our military's full freedom and right to be admitted to any 
university, even if some university doesn't agree with the 
constitutional and lawfully established policies of the Department of 
Defense.

I would also raise another matter, and I think this is important. If 
there was some other significant showing, I think, of competence or 
claim on this position, I would be more willing to consider it. If she 
were among the most proven practitioners of legal skill before Federal 
appellate courts or had great experience in these particular positions, 
maybe I could overcome them. Maybe if she had lots of other cases in 
her career that could show she had shown wisdom in other areas, but 
that is not the case. She has zero appellate experience. Dean Kagan has 
never argued a case before the U.S. Supreme Court, which isn't unusual 
for most American lawyers, but for somebody who wants to be the 
Solicitor General whose job it is to argue before the Supreme Court, it 
is not normal. But for that matter, she has never argued any appellate 
case before any State supreme court.

In fact, she has never argued a case on appeal before any appellate 
court, whether Federal, State, local, tribal or military. That is a 
real lack of experience. When asked about this lack of experience at 
our hearing, Ms. Kagan tried to compare her record to other nominees 
saying this:




 And I should say, Senator, that I will, by no means, be the 


 first Solicitor General who has not had extensive or, indeed, 


 any Supreme Court argument experience. So I'll just give you 


 a few names:



 Robert Bork, Ken Starr, Charles Fried, Wade McCree. None of 


 those people had appeared before the courts prior to becoming 


 solicitor general.


Well, Ms. Kagan's record hardly compares to the names she cited in 
her own defense.

Regarding Charles Fried, Ms. Kagan was wrong in stating that he never 
argued to the Supreme Court. Although Professor Fried did not have much 
in the way of litigation experience before being nominated, he had 
argued to the Supreme Court while serving as Deputy Solicitor General 
in Rex Lee's Solicitor General's Office. Accordingly, Mr. Fried had two 
things Ms. Kagan lacks--Supreme Court experience and experience within 
the Solicitor General's Office.

Ms. Kagan also compared herself to Ken Starr and Wade McCree, both of 
whom had a wealth of appellate experience that she lacks. Prior to his 
nomination to be Solicitor General, Ken Starr served as a U.S. Court of 
Appeals judge in the District of Columbia--an appellate court--from 
1983 to 1989, a court before which the best lawyers in the country 
appear and argue cases. He had to control and direct their argument, 
and as a result he got to see and have tremendous experience in that 
regard as an appellate judge. Wade McCree had even more experience 
before his nomination. Mr. McCree served as a U.S. Court of Appeals 
judge in the Sixth Circuit, from 1966 to 1977, 11 years.

Robert Bork also had a strong litigation background before his 
nomination. He was one of the most recognized, accomplished antitrust 
lawyers in private practice in the country.

We should not forget the critically important role the Solicitor 
General plays in our legal system. As Clinton-era Solicitor General 
Drew Days wrote in the Kentucky Law Journal, ''the Solicitor General 
has the power to decide whether to defend the constitutionality of the 
acts of Congress or even to affirmatively challenge them.'' That is 
quite a power--the power to defend statutes in the Supreme Court, or 
even challenge them in the Supreme Court.

This is a very critical job within our Government. I think it 
deserves a more experienced lawyer, one with a record that shows more 
balance and good judgment. I think Ms. Kagan's lack of experience is an 
additional reason I am uncomfortable with the nomination. I think 
nominees have to be careful about expressing opinions on matters that 
might come before them in the future. But for a nonjudicial position, 
and concerning issues which were commented on today, Senator Specter 
believes she has been less than forthcoming. Had she been more 
forthcoming, I might have been a little more comfortable with the 
nominee. Her failure to be responsive to many questions, I think, 
causes me further concern.

To paraphrase a well-known statement of then-Senator Biden--now our


Vice President--the job of the Solicitor General does not lend itself 
to on-the-job training. One time, Rudy Giuliani was arguing about who 
should be his replacement as U.S. Attorney in Manhattan, and they were 
discussing people with very little experience. He said: I think it 
would be nice if they were able to contribute to the discussion every 
now and then.

I think it is good to have some experience. So I don't see a sense of 
history here to overcome what I consider to be bad judgment on a very 
important matter. I supported the nomination of Eric Holder. I like him 
and I hope he will be a good Attorney General; I think he will. I 
intend to support most of the other nominees to the Department of 
Justice. I certainly hope to. But I am not able to support Elena 
Kagan's nomination in view of her positions concerning the ability of 
the U.S. military to come on the campus of Harvard and actually recruit 
the young men and women who might wish to join the military. I think 
that was wrong. I also believe she has a very significant lack of 
relevant experience for the position.

I yield the floor.