---
---

# DWELL TIME
## `1cce691c12af3c4fb749c9649825bcff`
`Mr. McCAIN — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I again wish to express my appreciation 
and respect for the author of the amendment that was just considered by 
the Senate. I appreciate the courtesy and the level of debate that was 
conducted. I also always appreciate very much his brave service to our 
Nation.

I hope I could convince my friend from Virginia that perhaps we could 
have a voice vote on this, because as we know, it is a sense-of-the-
Senate amendment. I will not take all of my time except to say that all 
Senators share the concern for the men and women of the Armed Forces 
and their families, as a result of the operational demands of 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.

This amendment expresses a sense of Congress--a sense of Congress, 
not a mandate--that consistent with wartime requirements, DOD should 
put into place force management policies that reflect the dwell time 
ratios in the Webb amendment.

The amendment is clear, however, that such dwell time policies cannot 
be implemented if to do so would prevent mission accomplishment or harm 
other


members of the force. That is why it includes a certification 
requirement that would have the Secretary of Defense assure Congress 
that such a policy would not result in extending deployments of units 
or members beyond their current scheduled rotation.

The amendment also includes a waiver provision that Senator Warner 
suggested. It wisely provides authority to the Secretary of Defense to 
waive the requirements of any existing dwell time policy and an 
attendant certification if the Secretary of Defense determines it is 
necessary to do so in the interest of national security.

I again want to thank Senator Warner, our distinguished former 
chairman and long-time Member of this body, who played such an 
important role in this whole debate and continues to.

I realize this debate on Iraq is far from over, that this is only one 
amendment. But I also appreciate the level of dialog, debate, and 
discussion on this very important issue.

I yield the floor.