---
---

# CONDEMNING 1994 ATTACK ON ARGENTINE JEWISH CENTER
## `1cf060480bb2729db7c84e80cbf6505b`
`Mr. PAUL — 15 July 2008`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, as one who is most consistently opposed to war 
and violence, I join my colleagues in condemning the brutal and 
unjustified attack on a Jewish community center in Argentina 14 years 
ago. I do not support this resolution, however, as it misuses a tragedy 
14 years ago in a foreign country to push for U.S. war against Iran 
today.

Although this resolution clearly blames Iran and Hezbollah for the 
bombing, in fact the investigation is ongoing and far from conclusive. 
In an article titled ''U.S. uses probe to pressure Iran,'' the Wall 
Street Journal earlier this year suggested that renewed U.S. interest 
in this 14-year-old case is more related to politics than a genuine 
desire for justice. Reported the Journal,




 As tensions between the U.S. and Iran persist, Washington 


 and its allies are using an investigation into a 1994 


 terrorist attack in Argentina to maintain pressure on the 


 Iranian regime.



 Behind the scenes, Bush administration officials are 


 encouraging the probe, which centers on the bombing of a 


 Jewish community center in Buenos Aires. One U.S. goal is to 


 cause legal problems for some of Iran's political leaders. 


 Administration officials also hope to use the matter to 


 highlight Iran's alleged role in financing and supporting 


 terrorism around the world.


Those pushing for a U.S. attack on Iran are using this tragic event 
to foment fear in the United States that Iran and Hezbollah are 
perpetrating terrorist acts in the Western Hemisphere. This is another 
in an ongoing series of resolutions we see on the House floor pushing 
us toward war against Iran. I have no doubt that we will see another 
similar resolution on the floor next week, and the week after, and so 
on until we find ourselves making another tragic mistake as we did in 
2002 with H.J. Res. 114 giving the President the authority to attack 
Iraq.

I urge my colleagues to resist this push to war with Iran before it 
is too late.