---
---

# TRUCKS COMING IN FROM MEXICO
## `1cf28b90ea23097885be07a1cd38e492`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. And the concern for a lot of us is that this 
administration does not really have a very good track record of being 
open and honest with the Congress through a variety of issues. We go 
all the way across the board from the Iraq war, whether you were for it 
or against it or wherever you ended up; the actual execution of unbid 
contracts and lack of oversight and not getting the kinds of answers we 
need.

Katrina, we have the same kind of deal. The President goes down, Mr. 
Speaker, and says everything is doing great. Good job, Brownie, we are 
doing everything we can. Then you find out over the course of several 
days, several weeks, several years that it wasn't going well at all. 
There was no infrastructure in place; there was no civil coordination. 
We had all kinds of problems.

And I think it is so important that the gentlewoman, Mr. Speaker, 
from Kansas has brought this issue to the Congress and made it a 
priority, not only for her but for the whole Congress, passing 
legislation with 410 other Members other than herself, is that we need 
to make sure that, if we do it, we do it right and we get it done, and 
we make sure that we have the safety standards in place, the drug 
testing, the sleep, the caps, the traditional safety standards that we 
have here, Mr. Speaker.

This is important stuff. And it can't be you say one thing today, and 
we find out a year later that it is not going as well; everybody 
passes, we completely implement the program, and we find out a year 
later. Now we have 5,000 trucks on the road coming from Mexico, and 
none of them are safe, or 50 percent of them are safe. That is too 
risky for I think our tastes.

So it is important that we continue to push the other side of the 
Capitol to pass this piece of legislation, talk to our Senators, talk 
to the people we work with to get this thing done. This is important 
for the American people, a priority for you, a priority for me, and a 
lot of our other colleagues to the tune of 411 of us. We can't agree on 
anything with 411 people, but we agree on this issue.