# AMERICAN ENERGY
## `1cfc77169337ff9f37874794eacede47`
`Mr. KING of Iowa â€” 24 July 2008`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I acknowledge that statement as 
correct. And Mr. Speaker, I will direct my remarks to the Chair. I 
appreciate that.

So Mr. Speaker, when I speak to you and echo this message across to 
the other Chamber, the idea that a surge didn't work in Iraq but it 
allowed Presidential candidates to walk around on the tarmac without a 
bullet-proof vest or a helmet, but it will work in Afghanistan?



That's a rationale that doesn't fit for the people in the Midwest. 
They know better. They've watched this. They stayed up to speed with 
what's going on, and they will not be fooled. And I will not be fooled 
either.

So what we have is we have a situation where the political climate in 
this


Chamber, Mr. Speaker, seeks to meld and shape itself to a presidential 
campaign, to adopt those policies, to make it so it increases the odds 
that their candidate will be elected President.

And part of this, Mr. Speaker, is unfolding tomorrow morning in the 
House Judiciary Committee. I don't know that this is published in the 
news media, but I know what I got in my Judiciary Committee hearing 
notice here within the last hour. This is a notice that says that there 
is going to be, for the first time in this millennia, impeachment 
hearings in the United States House of Representatives in the Judiciary 
Committee, impeachment hearings to consider impeachment of the 
President of the United States and the Vice President of the United 
States, starting at 10 a.m. tomorrow morning in room 2141 of the 
Rayburn House Office Building.

I can only conclude, Mr. Speaker, that the initiative for this has to 
be approved by the presidential candidate of the party that controls 
the Judiciary Committee and this Chamber. There's no other conclusion 
that can be drawn. It is all politics all the time. There are no 
coincidences in politics. If a presidential candidate didn't want to 
have impeachment hearings going on, he'd make sure that they weren't 
going on. If a Speaker of the House or a chairman of the Judiciary 
Committee was considering such an idea to hold impeachment hearings, 
they would surely run it across the powers that be within their party 
so there wasn't a conflict that rose up to bite them. I have to 
believe, and I do believe, that this is with the full support and 
endorsement of the presidential candidate chosen by the party on the 
other side of the aisle.

This is what we're up against tomorrow, Mr. Speaker. It's going to be 
an interesting day.

I was not in this Congress during the impeachment hearings of 1998, 
although I was in this city. I came to this city to do a couple of 
conferences, and I picked up the Washington Post, and on about Page 4, 
there was a little clip in there that said impeachment hearings in the 
House Judiciary Committee, room 2141, open to the public, staring at 10 
o'clock in the morning. I believe the dates were the 7th, 8th, and 9th 
of December, 1998. I looked at that, and I concluded that these were 
historical times and that in spite of whatever the conferences were 
that I'd come out here to attend, attending the impeachment hearings 
would be far more instructive, that I would then be part of history.

Well, I observed those hearings for 3 days in a row. I was sitting 
behind David Shippers when he delivered the summary of the prosecution. 
I happen to have a copy that was handed to me that day by the Judiciary 
Committee staff. I keep that in my file. It's an historic event. These 
events tomorrow will be historic too, although they are far from as 
serious as what was taking place in 1998 because in 1998 there was an 
impeachment in this House. This House voted to impeach the President of 
the United States, Mr. Speaker. They did so based on solid evidence, 
and they went over to the Senate to bring forth the prosecution.

And I see things in this notice that goes this way: ''Full Committee 
Hearing, Executive Power and Its Constitutional Limitations'' being the 
subject, the subject being three resolutions introduced by Congressman 
Dennis Kucinich and different resolutions to either impeach President 
Bush or Vice President Cheney. It says that interest groups have 
advocated for the impeachment of the President and the Vice President. 
Nobody's talking about this where I live, but there are enough radicals 
to bring this thing forward.

We are going to hear from several Members of Congress, one, two, 
three, four Members of Congress tomorrow. We are going to hear from a 
former Associate Deputy Attorney General from the Reagan 
administration. We are going to hear from the Mayor of Salt Lake City, 
Mr. Speaker, who has said publicly this: ''This President has engaged 
in such incredible abuses of power and breaches of trust with both 
Congress and the American people and misleading us into this tragic and 
unbelievable war, the violation of treaties, other international law, 
our Constitution, our own domestic laws, and then his role in heinous 
human rights abuses, I think all of that together calls for 
impeachment.''

Well, I would reject all of those allegations as having substance, 
and I don't think that substance is going to come out tomorrow, Mr. 
Speaker, because this is a dog and pony show. This is a political 
exercise.

Actually, I tried to get the chairman to yield to me the other day, 
and he declined to do so, because I was watching the progression of 
these judicial public lynchings that have been taking place of Bush 
administration officials in the Judiciary Committee over the last month 
or better. We had David Addington, the Chief of Staff of the Vice 
President of the United States, brought before the Judiciary Committee 
under threat of subpoena. And he was told by one of the committee 
members, ''I'm glad al Qaeda can see you now.'' Brought before the 
public, a man who has been a private individual, and whipped up one 
side and down the other with verbal assaults, trying to find to trip 
him up so that he could go the same path as Scooter Libby, whom no one 
can still tell me what it was that Scooter Libby said or did that was 
wrong. All they know is that he's been beaten up on so much, there must 
be something there. Well, Mr. Speaker, when it comes to the politics in 
this Chamber, I can tell you there doesn't have to be anything there to 
be beaten up upon.

But here's what's going to make it a problem for some of the members 
in the Judiciary Committee. They were on the committee in 1998, many of 
them. They are on record as to what they thought was an objective 
constitutional means, reason for which a President should be impeached. 
They said such things as, and this is a quote, ''We are using the most 
powerful institutional tool available to this body, impeachment, in a 
highly partisan manner. Impeachment was designed to rid this Nation of 
traitors and tyrants.'' That's the chairman of the committee.

Here's another quote from a committee member. This is Maxine Waters, 
California, who believes we should nationalize our oil industry, by the 
way, but, Mr. Speaker, here's the quote: ''How must our American 
soldiers feel to have their Commander in Chief under attack''--this is 
of President Clinton during the impeachment hearings. ''How must our 
American soldiers feel to have their Commander in Chief under attack 
while they are engaged in battle? They have the right to feel betrayed 
and undermined. Today we are here in the People's House debating the 
partisan impeachment of the President of the United States of America 
while the Commander in Chief is managing a crisis and asking world 
leaders for support. This is indeed a Republican coup d'etat.'' Mr. 
Speaker, that's Maxine Waters, 1998, during the impeachment of Bill 
Clinton. I wonder how she is going to conduct herself tomorrow, if she 
is going to be consistent with her words then or if she's going to 
contrive another argument manana.

Here's another quote from a current Judiciary Committee member 
speaking of the Clinton impeachment in 1998: ''We have been warned 
repeatedly that these allegations are nowhere near what is necessary to 
overturn a national election and to impeachment a President. Despite 
these cautionary flags, this committee has turned a deaf ear to 
hundreds of years of precedent and to the Constitution that has kept 
this country strong and unified.'' That's Congressman Robert C. Scott 
of Virginia, a Judiciary Committee member.

Here's a statement made by the current Chair of the Immigration 
Subcommittee back in 1998 of the Clinton impeachment: ''The people's 
will must not be overridden by those who claim to know better, by those 
who believe they know what is best for the American people,'' Zoe 
Lofgren.

You get the idea, Mr. Speaker. Let me just do another one just to put 
some of this on the record, Mr. Speaker. Here's another quote of the 
1998 impeachment of President Bill Clinton, Judiciary Committee member 
and Constitution Subcommittee Chair: ''It's an enormous responsibility 
and an extraordinary power. It's not one that should be exercised 
lightly. It certainly is not one which should be exercised in a manner 
which is or would be perceived to be unfair or partisan.''

Well, get ready for tomorrow, Mr. Speaker. I don't expect it's going 
to be fair, but I don't think there is a single


pundit in America that could analyze it as anything except partisan. 
Not a witch hunt anymore. They've found their witch. They're bringing 
impeachment hearings before the House Judiciary Committee, all of that 
on the heels of the attempted public lynching of David Addington, the 
Chief of Staff of the Vice President of the United States; Doug Feith, 
the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, also brought before 
the committee; and then behind that last week, former Attorney General 
John Ashcroft, another attempt made at him yesterday or the day before. 
I guess it was the day before. We had Attorney General Mukasey. All of 
this before the committee, all of this under at least the implication 
that a subpoena can be issued, sometimes the actual vote and threat of 
a subpoena. I don't know if a subpoena has been actually issued under 
any of these cases. But these are honorable men. They'll come testify. 
They have got nothing to hide. But it's a grueling thing to sit there 
and look at the Judiciary Committee panel and know that it's exactly 
what, Mr. Speaker, Jerry Nadler said it should not be. He said, ''It 
certainly is not one which should be exercised in a manner which is or 
would be perceived to be unfair or partisan.''


Well, I am very convinced that Jerry Nadler thought that it was 
unfair and partisan in 1998. I don't know that a majority of the 
American people think that, but today if you would walk down the 
streets of America, at least inside the coasts in America, and say, 
''What in the world would the Democrats want to impeach President Bush 
and Vice President Cheney for?'' I would be hard pressed to find 
constituents in my part of the country that could give me an informed 
answer. That means to me that it's unfair and it's partisan, and this 
entire exercise is about discrediting the Bush administration so that 
the landing zone is prepped for Election Day in November. That's what I 
see.

I don't think there are coincidences in politics. I think it's all 
real. And it is not a game. It is hardball. This is the hardest of 
hardball that's unfolding here tomorrow. The unbelievable, the 
unanticipated, the breathtaking, the illogical, the major reach, the 
deja vu feeling with a different pair of figures in front of it.

Mr. Speaker, I will take us back also to another little event when I 
had exposure to some of the things going on by the hard left in 
America.

March 18, 2003, just a few days before the liberation of Iraq began, 
there was an anti-war protest that took place out on the mall. Now, I 
had not been to one of those before. We don't have them in my part of 
the country. But I thought I should take a look at this one. And so I 
put on my Redskins sweatshirt, an old one. I looked like a native, put 
a cap on, walked down there amongst the people that were getting ready 
for this march on the White House to protest the war that hadn't begun. 
And as I was there and I watched a photographer wash the lens of his 
camera with an American flag he kept in his pocket for a rag, and he 
was pleased to do it, as I watched some of the countercultural signs be 
put up, I took a lot of pictures down there, many of which couldn't be 
published and many of which you wouldn't show your children. There was 
a big stage. A big stage with big speakers up on it. And the orators 
that came forward to stand between those large speakers were there to 
gin up the crowd so they got all wound up and then they could march off 
across the mall and march around the White House and go protest the war 
that hadn't begun. And I did watch that entire march and that whole 
protest, and that's a longer speech than I've got time for tonight, Mr. 
Speaker. But I saw the chairman of the Judiciary Committee call for the 
impeachment of President Bush before the operations began.

And now here we are, March 18, 2003, fast forward to July 24, and 
tomorrow will be July 25, 2008. Just a little over 5 years later, we're 
there. It's happening. It's coming before the Judiciary Committee 
tomorrow in room 2141, 10 o'clock a.m. I think it will be a day that 
lives in infamy, a shameful day, a day when the American people wake up 
and realize there is a connection between a committee and the United 
States Congress seeking to impeach a President without cause during a 
time of war, during a time when our energy is tied up and trapped up 
and we're looking at $4 gas, during a time when we have economic 
difficulties and there needs to be confidence in the American system 
and the American economy, during a time as we move up to a presidential 
election. All of these things are affected. They are all wrapped up 
together. They all have to have, Mr. Speaker, the imprimatur of 
approval stamped on it by the man that wanted to give a speech at the 
Brandenburg Gate today.



It's his agenda. It's his motive. It's them working with him. It's 
his impeachment hearings. This all ties together. And I believe the 
American voters will hold the kind of people who pull these kind of 
moves accountable. And I'm going to see to it that at least the 
information is out. And I trust the wisdom of the American people.

Join me tomorrow, Mr. Speaker. I will hold a chair for you. All of us 
will be looking in and see that at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning, room 
2141, the House Judiciary Committee, impeachment hearings, President 
Bush, Vice President Cheney, held tomorrow. They ensue at 10 in the 
morning. I will be there. Mr. Speaker, you be there. And let's right 
this ship that is going off tacking so hard to the left. It's going to 
sink if we don't turn it around.
