# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `1d0a493f5261114c4ab919d2edf4c8a1`
`Mr. GREGG — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I rise today to pay a heartfelt tribute to 
special warfare operator CPO, SEAL, Nathan H. Hardy of Durham, NH. 
Sadly on February 4, 2008 while supporting Operation Iraqi Freedom, 
this brave 29-year old patriot gave his life for his team and for our 
Nation during combat operations in Iraq. Chief Hardy was a member of 
Naval Special Warfare Tactical Development and Evaluation Squadron 
THREE, Dam Neck, VA, and was serving our country in his fourth 
deployment to Iraq.

Nathan, or Nate to family and friends, was a 1997 graduate of Oyster 
River High School, Durham, NH, where he excelled in soccer and 
lacrosse. He enlisted in the U.S. Navy on November 4, 1997, received 
basic training in Great Lakes, IL, Undersea Demolition/SEAL training in 
Coronado, CA, and attended the Defense Language Institute in Monterey, 
CA. During his Navy career he served entirely with east coast-based 
SEAL teams.

Friends say from his youth Nate dreamed of becoming a U.S. Navy SEAL, 
one of the most challenging, rigorous, and elite fighting organizations 
in the history of the world. He applied his fierce competitiveness and 
team spirit to achieve success and served our Nation with deep pride 
and great courage. He loved what he did, and that was obvious.

The awards and decorations Nate received serve as testimony to his 
strong character and extraordinary performance. They include two Bronze 
Star Medals, Purple Heart, two Navy Marine Corps Achievement Medals, 
Combat Action Ribbon--approval pending--three Good Conduct Medals, two 
National Defense Service Medals, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, 
Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, Kosovo Campaign Medal, 
Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Global War on Terrorism 
Service Medal, three Sea Service Deployment Medals, NATO Medal, Expert 
Rifle Medal and the Sharpshooter Pistol Medal.

During our country's difficult Revolutionary War, Thomas Paine wrote 
''These are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the 
sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of their 
country; but he that stands it now, deserves the love and thanks of man 
and woman.'' In these turbulent times Chief Hardy stood with the 
country he loved, served it with distinction and valor, and earned and 
deserves our love and thanks. Because of his efforts, the liberty of 
this country is made more secure.

My sympathy, condolences, and prayers go out to Nate's wife Mindi, 
son Parker, parents Steve and Donna, brother Ben, and to his other 
family members and many friends who have suffered this most grievous 
loss. All will sorely miss Nate Hardy--devoted husband, caring father, 
dedicated son, loyal brother, good friend, outstanding SEAL. Laid to 
rest at Arlington National Cemetery, Chief Hardy joins his fellow 
heroes in eternal peace at our military's most sacred place. His 
sacrifice will live on forever among the many dedicated heroes this 
Nation has sent abroad to defend freedom. In the words of another son 
of New Hampshire, Daniel Webster--may his remembrance be as longlasting 
as the land he honored. God bless Nathan Hardy.
