---
---

# THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `1d0ee88cd741dd1a4a3fa690cad31f5b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 11 January 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank you very much. I know this is a 
Special Order that has drawn the interest of Members from vast regions 
around America.

The important thing is we are Americans, that we want what is best 
for America, and that is why the Congress created the Baker Commission, 
not for it to be partisan but for it to be bipartisan, for it to have 
experts from around the Nation. To my great disappointment, the 
President stood up, ignored the Congress, the people, the experts, the 
military experts, and the wisdom that would indicate that it is time 
now to redeploy our troops.

This is a Martin Luther King moment. His birthday will be celebrated 
this coming Monday. Martin Luther King was courageous enough, as my 
colleague from Minnesota just said, to have the courage to go against 
the Vietnam War, realizing it was better to have peace over war and 
life over death.

The President laid out last night an Iraqi-dependent policy for 
America. They have, in essence, called upon the American people to 
depend upon this failed government to be the source of our strategy in 
Baghdad. We now will send some 20,000-plus troops to engage in a nine-
district process of dragging people out of their homes on the premise 
of utilizing Iraqi soldiers and security forces. My question to the 
President is: Why did we not do this before?

Let me say in closing that I want a peaceful solution. I did not vote 
for the war, but I believe in our military. I believe in America and 
democracy. Bring the allies to the table in the region, have a 
political diplomacy, and have our troops backup the Iraqis. We cannot 
have a foreign policy dependent upon Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor today to speak on the most critical 
issue facing our country, the war in Iraq. This misguided, mismanaged, 
and costly debacle was preemptively launched by President Bush in March 
2003 despite the opposition of me and 125 other members of the House. 
To date, the war in Iraq has lasted longer than America's involvement 
in World War II, the greatest conflict in all of human history.

The Second World War ended in complete and total victory for the 
United States and its allies. But then again, in that conflict America 
was led by a great Commander-in-Chief who had a plan to win the war and 
secure the peace, listened to his generals, and sent troops in 
sufficient numbers and sufficiently trained and equipped to do the job.

Mr. Speaker, I say with sadness that we have not that same quality of 
leadership throughout the conduct of the Iraq War. The results, not 
surprisingly, have been disastrous. To date, the war in Iraq has 
claimed the lives of 3,015 brave servicemen and women (115 in December 
and 13 in the first 9 days of this month). More than 22,000 Americans 
have been wounded, many suffering the most horrific injuries. American 
taxpayers have paid nearly $400 billion to sustain this misadventure.

Based on media reports, tonight President Bush will not be offering 
any new strategy for success in Iraq, just an increase in force levels 
of 20,000 American troops. This reported plan will not provide lasting 
security for Iraqis. It is not what the American people have asked for, 
nor what the American military needs. It will impose excessive and 
unwarranted burdens on military personnel and their families.

Mr. Speaker, the architects of the fiasco in Iraq would have us 
believe that ''surging'' at least 20,000 more soldiers into Baghdad and 
nearby Anbar province is a change in military strategy that America 
must embrace or face future terrorist attacks on American soil. Nothing 
could be further from the truth, as we learned last year when the 
''surge'' idea first surfaced among neoconservatives.

Mr. Speaker, the troop surge the President will announce tonight is 
not new and, judging from history, will not work. It will only succeed 
in putting more American troops in harm's way for no good reason and 
without any strategic advantage. The armed forces of the United States 
are not to be used to respond to 911 calls from governments like Iraq's 
that have done all they can to take responsibility for the security of 
their country and safety of their own people. The United States cannot 
do for Iraq what Iraqis are not willing to do for themselves.

Troop surges have been tried several times in the past. The success 
of these surges has, to put it charitably, been underwhelming. Let's 
briefly review the record:







1. Operation Together Forward, (June-October 2006):


In June the Bush administration announced a new plan for securing 
Baghdad by increasing the presence of Iraqi Security Forces. That plan 
failed, so in July the White House announced that additional American 
troops would be sent into Baghdad. By October, a U.S. military 
spokesman, Gen. William Caldwell, acknowledged that the operation and 
troop increase was a failure and had ''not met our overall expectations 
of sustaining a reduction in the levels of violence.'' [CNN, 12/19/06. 
Washington Post, 7/26/06. Brookings Institution, 12/21/06.]


 2. Elections and Constitutional Referendum (September-December 2005):


In the fall of 2005 the Bush administration increased troop levels by 
22,000, making a total of 160,000 American troops in Iraq around the 
constitutional referendum and parliamentary elections. While the 
elections went off without major violence these escalations had little 
long-term impact on quelling sectarian violence or attacks on American 
troops. [Brookings Institution, 12/21/06. www.icasualties.org]



3. Constitutional Elections and Fallujah (November 2004-March 2005):


As part of an effort to improve counterinsurgency operations after 
the Fallujah offensive in November 2004 and to increase security before 
the January 2005 constitutional elections U.S. forces were increased by 
12,000 to 150,000. Again there was no long-term security impact. 
[Brookings Institution, 12/21/06. New York Times, 12/2/04.]






 4. Massive Troop Rotations (December 2003-April 2004):


As part of a massive rotation of 250,000 troops in the winter and 
spring of 2004, troop levels in Iraq were raised from 122,000 to 
137,000.

Yet, the increase did nothing to prevent Muqtada al-Sadr's Najaf 
uprising and April of 2004 was the second deadliest month for American 
forces.[Brookings Institution, 12/21/06. www.icasualties.org. USA 
Today, 3/4/04]

Mr. Speaker, stemming the chaos in Iraq, however, requires more than 
opposition to military escalation. It requires us to make hard choices. 
Our domestic national security, in fact, rests on redeploying our 
military forces from Iraq in order to build a more secure Middle East 
and continue to fight against global terrorist networks elsewhere in 
the world. Strategic redeployment of our armed forces in order to 
rebuild our nation's fighting capabilities and renew our critical fight 
in Afghanistan against the Taliban and al-Qaeda is not just an 
alternative strategy. It's a strategic imperative.

Mr. Speaker, it is past time for a new direction that can lead to 
success in Iraq. We cannot wait any longer. Too many Americans and 
Iraqis are dying who could otherwise be saved.

I believe the time has come to debate, adopt, and implement the 
Murtha Plan for strategic redeployment. I am not talking about 
''immediate withdrawal,'' ''cutting and running,'' or surrendering to 
terrorists, as the architects of the failed Administration Iraq policy 
like to claim. And I certainly am not talking about staying in Iraq 
forever or the foreseeable future.

I am talking about a strategic redeployment of troops that: Reduces 
U.S. troops in Iraq to 60,000 within six months, and to zero by the end 
of 2007, while redeploying troops to Afghanistan, Kuwait, and the 
Persian Gulf. Engages in diplomacy to resolve the conflict within Iraq 
by convening a Geneva Peace Conference modeled on the Dayton Accords. 
Establishes a Gulf Security initiative to deal with


the aftermath of U.S. redeployment from Iraq and the growing nuclear 
capabilities of Iran. Puts Iraq's reconstruction back on track with 
targeted international funds. Counters extremist Islamic ideology 
around the globe through long-term efforts to support the creation of 
democratic institutions and press freedoms.

As the Center for American Progress documents in its last quarterly 
report (October 24, 2006), the benefits of strategic redeployment are 
significant: Restore the strength of U.S. ground troops. Exercise a 
strategic shift to meet global threats from Islamic extremists. Prevent 
U.S. troops from being caught in the middle of a civil war in Iraq. 
Avert mass sectarian and ethnic cleansing in Iraq. Provide time for 
Iraq's elected leaders to strike a power-sharing agreement. Empower 
Iraq's security forces to take control. Get Iraqis fighting to end the 
occupation to lay down their arms. Motivate the U.N., global, and 
regional powers to become more involved in Iraq. Give the U.S. the 
moral, political, and military power to deal with Iran's attempt to 
develop nuclear weapons. Prevent an outbreak of isolationism in the 
United States.

Mr. Speaker, rather than surging militarily for the third time in a 
year, the president should surge diplomatically. A further military 
escalation would simply mean repeating a failed strategy. A diplomatic 
surge would involve appointing an individual with the stature of a 
former secretary of state, such as Colin Powell or Madeleine Albright, 
as a special envoy. This person would be charged with getting all six 
of Iraq's neighbors--Iran, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and 
Kuwait--involved more constructively in stabilizing Iraq. These 
countries are already involved in a bilateral, self-interested and 
disorganized way.

While their interests and ours are not identical, none of these 
countries wants to live with an Iraq that, after our redeployment, 
becomes a failed state or a humanitarian catastrophe that could become 
a haven for terrorists or a hemorrhage of millions more refugees 
streaming into their countries.

The high-profile envoy would also address the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict, the role of Hezbollah and Syria in Lebanon, and Iran's rising 
influence in the region. The aim would not be necessarily to solve 
these problems, but to prevent them from getting worse and to show the 
Arab and Muslim world that we share their concerns about the problems 
in this region.

Mr. Speaker, the President's plan has not worked. Doing the same 
thing over and over and expecting a different result is, as we all 
know, a definition of insanity. It is time to try something new. It is 
time for change. It is time for a new direction.
