# HONORING SPECIALIST JESSE A. SNOW
## `1d1eb4bb4bb459f6997415ee9f9e3150`
`Mr. AUSTRIA — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. AUSTRIA. Madam Speaker, while we can never fully express the 
depth of our appreciation for those who give their lives to protect our 
freedoms, I rise today to recognize and honor the life of Specialist 
Jesse A. Snow.

A 2003 Fairborn High School graduate and Army service member, Snow 
was killed while serving this country in Afghanistan on November 14, 
2010. He gave his life, along with four other service members, in the 
defense of our freedoms.

Snow, 25, was full of energy and life. He had a kind spirit and he 
cared about everyone. He never let an opportunity pass by to make sure 
those around him were laughing and smiling. He is remembered by many as 
often telling jokes and expressing his personal care for others.

Snow was content with life but felt a calling to serve. Friends and 
family remember him as a noble gentleman who always placed others' 
needs in front of his own. In April of 2009 he joined the U.S. Army, as 
an infantryman assigned to the 1st Battalion, 327th Infantry Regiment, 
1st Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault), Fort 
Campbell, Kentucky.

He served with distinction and his awards and decorations include the 
National Defense Service Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service 
Medal, the Army Service Ribbon, the NATO Medal and Combat Infantryman 
Badge.

Survived by his parents, John W. Snow, Sr., and Janice Snow of 
Fairborn, and siblings, Snow is remembered as a loving son, brother and 
uncle. His devotion to his family, friends, fellow service members, and 
to this nation are honorable. A hard worker and a loyal patriot, he 
selflessly served this country with bravery and valor.

Thus, it is that I stand on behalf of those constituents of the 
Ohio's Seventh Congressional District to honor the life and memory of 
Specialist Jesse A. Snow, a true hero.



