# REMARKS OF RUPERT MURDOCK
## `1d22c65bb9de7691a3656e4126543713`
`Mr. STEVENS — 28 April 2008`

---


Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, last Monday evening I had the honor of 
attending a dinner of the Atlantic Council. At that dinner several 
distinguished individuals were honored: former British Prime Minister 
Tony Blair, News Corporation chairman and CEO Rupert Murdoch, and 
Admiral Michael Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for 
Distinguished International, Business and Military Leadership 
respectively.

During the evening, there was much discussion about the health of the 
transatlantic relationship. I was impressed with Rupert Murdock's 
comments as to how the alliance must change to meet future threats. He 
went on to say ''We must face up to a painful truth: Europe no longer 
has either the political will or social culture to support military 
engagements in defense of itself and its allies. However strong NATO 
may be on paper, this fact makes NATO weak in practice. And it means 
that reform will not come from within.

Those who want a reformed NATO must look to the outside. In other 
words, we need to transform this Alliance from a community formed 
around a map to a community based on common values and a willingness to 
take joint action in defense of these values.

Those who want a reformed NATO must look to the outside. In other 
words, we need to transform this Alliance from a community formed 
around a map to a community based on common values and a willingness to 
take joint action in defense of these values.''

I ask unanimous consent to have Mr. Murdock's entire remarks printed 
in the Congressional Record.

 Mr. Rupert Murdoch's Prepared Remarks for the Atlantic Council's 2008 













Annual Awards Dinner




 Good evening. Thank you, Henry, for that kind introduction. 


 Your words remind me of the definition of a diplomat: A man 


 who always remembers his wife's birthday--but never remembers 


 her age.



 I also want to thank the Atlantic Council for this fine 


 award. By honoring me, you honor the work that News 


 Corporation's 61,000 employees are doing to connect people 


 across oceans, borders, and cultures. And you underscore the 


 importance of a strong private sector for a free society.



 Few organizations have done more for the preservation of 


 our freedom than this Council. Tonight I want to commend Fred 


 Kempe




 . . . General Jim Jones . . . the Council Board . . . and all 


 the Council members for the important work you are doing. 


 This Council was founded in the years following World War II. 


 Statesmen on both sides of the Atlantic recognized that the 


 defense of freedom would require the active engagement of a 


 new generation of leaders. By working to keep that Alliance 


 strong, you have helped the West prevail against Soviet 


 communism--and ensure the advance of democracy from the 


 Atlantic to the Urals.



 Today we can be tempted to bask in our achievements--and 


 wax nostalgic about all we have been through.



 But this is no time for nostalgia. At this moment in our 


 history, the Alliance that has been built up over decades now 


 finds itself threatened on several fronts:



 First, by the growing appeal of protectionism on both sides 


 of the Atlantic . . .



 Second, by the terrorists who target civilians in all our 


 countries . . . and finally, by the crisis of confidence in a 


 Europe that is losing its faith in the values and 


 institutions that have kept us free.



 We see this crisis of confidence in many areas. Yet nowhere 


 is it more apparent than in the failure of nerve we are 


 seeing in Afghanistan. After the attacks of September the 


 11th, 2001, it was clear that America and its allies needed 


 to deprive al Qaeda of its safe haven. It was clear that we 


 needed to help the Afghan people replace the Taliban with a 


 free government that would build a more hopeful future for 


 its citizens.



 Unfortunately, far from reflecting our unity, Nato's entry 


 into Afghanistan has exposed its divisions. Instead of 


 standing together as full and equal partners, a handful of 


 Alliance members are bearing the brunt of the fighting. 


 Defense Secretary Robert Gates has said that the lack of 


 equal burden sharing threatens the future of the Alliance. 


 And he is right.



 We must face up to a painful truth: Europe no longer has 


 either the political will or social culture to support 


 military engagements in defense of itself and its allies. 


 However strong NATO may be on paper, this fact makes NATO 


 weak in practice. And it means that reform will not come from 


 within.



 Those who want a reformed NATO must look to the outside. In 


 other words, we need to transform this Alliance from a 


 community formed around a map to a community based on common 


 values and a willingness to take joint action in defense of 


 these values.



 In short, a strong and successful Atlantic Alliance will 


 have to ground itself more on shared principles rather than 


 accident of geography. And we need to show we are serious 


 about defending those principles by standing with those who 


 are standing up for them.



 NATO's agreement to invite Albania and Croatia to become 


 members is a welcome start. So is the somewhat weaker 


 commitment that Ukraine and Georgia will become members of 


 NATO at some point in the future.



 But we need to go much further. As a rule, when an 


 organization expands, the expansion dilutes its principles. 


 For today's NATO, it is just the opposite. Expansion is the 


 only hope of invigorating an Alliance weighed down by those 


 who are no longer willing to commit themselves to defend its 


 founding principles.



 Around the world, there is no shortage of nations who share 


 our values, and are willing to defend them. I am thinking of 


 countries like Australia, which sent troops to Iraq . . . 


 Israel, which has been fighting Islamic terrorism almost 


 since its founding . . . and Japan, which generally follows a 


 more ''Western'' policy than most of Western Europe.



 Other countries have not reached the level of development 


 these countries enjoy. But some are working hard to get 


 there, and would be strong partners down the road. At the 


 very least, the United States needs to support them as they 


 struggle against the dark forces trying to pull them down.



 Right now the United States has a test in our own backyard. 


 Colombia is a nation that is fighting poverty, battling the 


 drug lords, and taking on terrorists backed by foreign 


 governments. Its citizens have suffered tremendously from 


 violence, and who want peace and opportunity. And it is being 


 led by a brave and innovative President, who is bringing the 


 rule of law to people who have not known it.



 What does this brave President ask of us? He asks that we 


 ratify the trade agreement we have negotiated with his 


 nation.



 By ratifying this agreement, we would open an important 


 market for American goods. We would demonstrate to millions 


 in our hemisphere that the path to prosperity lies in freedom 


 and democracy. And we would give strong moral support to a 


 leader struggling to bring hope and opportunity to his 


 people in an important part of the world.



 Everyone knows this. Even the New York Times says the 


 Democratic Congress should ratify this trade deal. Instead, 


 Speaker Pelosi has effectively put off the bill by not 


 scheduling a vote. We need to make clear to the leadership in 


 Congress needs to know what killing this trade deal would 


 mean.



 Throughout Colombia, a defeat for the trade deal would be 


 confirmation that the United States is not an ally you could 


 count on.



 Throughout Latin America, a defeat for the trade deal would 


 be exploited by thugs like Hugo Chavez, who would tell the 


 people, ''See, the Americans will never accept you as equals 


 and partners.''



 And throughout the world, a defeat for the trade deal would 


 be taken as another sign that the U.S. will not stand by its 


 friends when the going gets tough.



 The Mexican ambassador to the United States puts it this 


 way: ''The most important geopolitical mistake the United 


 States could do today . . . is not ratifying that treaty.''



 The world is watching. The same values that we are trying 


 to uphold in the Atlantic Alliance are at stake now in 


 Colombia. And if we fail to support them in Colombia, it will 


 be harder to revive them in the Alliance.



 Let me conclude with a little story. I was born in 


 Australia . . . I received my university education in Britain 


 . . . and I have made my home in America. Over a long and I 


 hope productive life, I have learned that shared values are 


 more important than shared borders.



 If we continue to define ''the West'' or ''the Alliance'' 


 as a strictly geographical concept, the Alliance will 


 continue to erode. But if we define the West as a community 


 of values, institutions, and a willingness to act jointly, we 


 will revive an important bastion of freedom--and make it as 


 pivotal in our own century as it was in the last.



 Thank you for having me. And thank you again for this fine 


 award.
