# None
## `1d24be1dc65802f64e3dc92564723f26`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE â€” 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
important legislation, and I commend my friend, Chairman Ike Skelton 
for his leadership in crafting this bipartisan product.

I support this conference report because it focuses on the readiness 
crisis of the United States military and puts our men and women in 
uniform first and foremost. It will provide our soldiers in harm's way 
with the best gear and force protection possible. As a veteran of the 
U.S. Army and as the Representative for Fort Bragg, I support this bill 
that will provide our troops better health care, better pay, and the 
benefits they have earned.

America has the finest military in the world. Unfortunately, the 
current Administration's policies in Iraq have depleted our great 
military and put tremendous strain on our troops. Army readiness has 
dropped to unprecedented levels, and Army National Guard units have, on 
average, only 40 percent of the required equipment. And many stateside 
units are not fully equipped and would not be considered ready if 
called upon to respond during an emergency such as a hurricane.

This conference report helps restore our nation's military readiness 
by creating a $1 billion Strategic Readiness Fund to address equipment 
shortfalls, fully funding the Army's and Marine Corps' equipment reset 
requirements and authorizing $980 million to provide the National Guard 
and Reserve critically needed equipment.

This bill protects our troops in harm's way by authorizing $17.6 
billion, an increase of $865 million, for additional MRAPs vehicle 
armor, $4.8 billion for anti-IED road-side bomb efforts, $3.3 billion 
for up-armored Humvees, $1.5 billion for add-on armor for other 
vehicles and $1.2 billion for body armor.

The measure supports our troops and their families, by giving the 
military a pay raise larger than requested by the President, 
prohibiting fee increases in TRICARE and the TRICARE pharmacy program, 
and strengthening benefits for the troops and their families, as 
promised in the GI Bill of Rights for the 21st Century.

It includes the Wounded Warrior Act, which responds to the Walter 
Reed Army Medical Center scandal by improving the care of injured 
soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan--addressing many of the 
issues raised by the Dole-Shalala Commission and implementing several 
of its recommendations.

It improves accountability and cracks down on waste, fraud and abuse 
in contracting including requiring new steps to manage and oversee 
contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan and requiring detailed new 
regulations for private security contractors, such as Blackwater 
employees, mandating the appropriate use of force.

The bill also includes new bipartisan reporting requirements under 
which DOD will regularly brief Congress on the planning taking place to 
responsibly redeploy U.S. forces from Iraq. It incorporates the 
National Guard Empowerment Act, which gives the National Guard enhanced 
authorities to fulfill its expanded role in the Nation's defense, 
including authorizing a fourth star for the Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau, requiring at least one deputy of the Northern Command to be a 
National Guard Officer, and making the National Guard Bureau a joint 
activity of the DOD. And it requires the Pentagon to include in its 
quarterly readiness reports the state-by-state capability of the 
National Guard to achieve its homeland and civil support missions, such 
as disaster response. The bill increases end strength by authorizing 
13,000 additional soldiers for the Army and 9,000 additional Marines in 
FY 2008.

Significantly, this legislation provides all service members a pay 
raise of 3.5 percent, which is 0.5 percent more than the President's 
budget request, and increases monthly hardship duty pay to a maximum of 
$1,500 (up from $150 per month), and provides special pays and bonuses.

The bill will also upgrade military health care for our troops, 
veterans and military retirees. It preserves health benefits by 
prohibiting fee increases in TRICARE and the TRICARE pharmacy services 
for military personnel and retirees. It prohibits cuts in military 
medical personnel and fully funds the Defense Health program facility 
maintenance, particularly at Walter Reed. It extends VA health 
insurance for service members who served in combat in the Persian Gulf 
War or future hostilities for five years instead of two years. And the 
conference report enhances benefits specifically for reservists.

I commend my North Carolina colleague Congressman David Price for his 
work on contractor accountability, and I support the inclusion in this 
conference report of his legislation to crack down on waste, fraud and 
abuse in contracting.

Mr. Speaker, there are many more provisions of this important 
legislation worthy of support, and I urge my colleagues to join me in 
voting to pass it.