# ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `1d2e00e1549213ba0276a9e3a98d44d0`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to be here 
tonight with these great legislators to do several things. One is to 
reiterate the responsibilities of the first branch, article I of the 
Constitution, the House of Representatives and the Senate as coequal 
branches of our government, and also to highlight by the use of finally 
reinstating after 6 years of capitulation to the administration, 
finally illustrating to the American people what can be done when there 
is a coequal branch of government.

As my colleague from Florida was speaking about Halloween, our 
children are home celebrating Halloween. And the President was very 
clever today when he talked about a bill that he saw disguised as a 
trick. This bill he talked about is the SCHIP legislation which has 43 
of our Nation's Governors supporting it, 273 Members of the House of 
Representatives, 68 Senators, and 81 percent of the American public.

What the President does not realize any more is there is a coequal 
branch of government functioning here. The President also said we have 
been wasting time. This perception of Congress failing is not something 
that is done by chance. It is done on message. Many Members know that a 
former Speaker of this House, Newt Gingrich, when he talked about how 
to take control of this House, talked about the only way to do so was 
to destroy the credibility of this institution and to pull Congress 
down.

Make no mistake, there is very much an idea here of obstructionism, 
but I want to be very clear: What the President talks about wasting 
time is things like ensuring the richest, most prosperous nation on 
Earth provides health care for its most vulnerable citizens, its 
children. The measure of this society, if it cannot be by what we are 
willing to do for our children, I am not sure there is another measure. 
And as we consider ourselves a great Nation, of which we are, the idea 
that this President would use the idea of fiscal conservativeness, 
after spending trillions and trillions into debt, and wasting, as you 
heard one of our previous colleagues speak about, money that 
disappeared, the money that has disappeared in Iraq and the waste on 
the contractors alone would pay for this bill. And this President asked 
us not to ask those questions.

Well, if he thinks that looking for fraud, waste and abuse is wasting 
time, I guess his definition is correct. I would say it is our 
constitutional authority.

Making college more affordable for middle-class Americans, making 
homeownership a reality based on fair lending practices, not predatory 
lending practices. And making sure we care for our veterans and for our 
soldiers. Those are the things that this Democratic Congress came here 
to do. We face massive opposition from a President who never even 
uttered the word ''veto'' in his first 6 years, but now utters it every 
single day on legislation that will improve this country. So I am proud 
to be part of this new class and I am proud to be part of this movement 
to once again reassert our authority on this.

The President's definition of wasting time is this country's business 
that we are doing. He simply dislikes it because, as we all here agree, 
the President has a very different reality of what makes a great 
Nation. We would argue a great Nation is one that is founded on those 
principles that were so critically important to the founding of article 
I of our Constitution which my colleague is shortly going to discuss. I 
yield back, and I look forward to a lively conversation here about the 
real progress that is being made.