---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `1d4080d87235154b5d1364d5bd2abdba`
`Mr. BROWNBACK — 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Senator Webb and I are involved in the Joint Economic 
Committee's time. Under the Budget rules, we get a certain amount of 
time to talk about the impact of the budget on the overall economy. 
That is what I intend to do.

I think it is also important to do this because, obviously, the 
budget does not happen in a vacuum, and the size of the Federal budget 
and its impact on the economy is so profound that I think we need to 
spend quite a bit of time, a lot more than just an hour's time, about 
what impact the Federal budget has on our overall economy.

The things we do, it is impacting the overall economy. I appreciate 
Senators Webb's comments about the military actions. We actually have 
held a Joint Economic Committee hearing on the impact of the war in 
Iraq, in Afghanistan, on our overall economy.

While I certainly dispute some of what the economists came forward 
with, I thought it was a useful thing for us to discuss. I think we 
ought also to look at that as not in a vacuum, given potential large 
impacts if the United States pulls out of Iraq and Afghanistan and 
pulls back from engagement on the global war on terrorism. It can have 
a huge impact on our economy, in many ways unmeasurable, and in a lot 
of ways difficult to predict.

But the impact is enormous. I think we have to look at this and say: 
We need to stay in this. We need to be able to get this done. That 
stability has a clear, positive impact on the environment. And a change 
toward a more stable environment in the Middle East and toward a 
democratic process in Iraq and Afghanistan over a lengthy period of 
time has a very positive impact on the global economy and ultimately on 
the U.S. economy. I do not think we can discount those features. While 
members of the Joint Economic Committee on the other side of the aisle 
prefer to look only at economic costs associated with wars, there are 
clearly benefits derived from National security, which they should not 
ignore.

I wanted to talk about now the budget proposal in a couple of ways. I 
would like to speak first about the impact of tax-and-spend proposals 
that are too much of a feature in the overall budget put forward by the 
Democratic majority in the Senate. I appreciate the work by those who 
constructed the budget. I recognize the difficulty of crafting a 
budget.

But I think there are some fundamental flaws that exist in the 
Democrat's budget that if not addressed, or if addressed in the way 
that the Democratic majority puts forward, are going to have 
fundamentally negative impacts near term and long term on the U.S. 
economy and on our opportunities and our hope for the future.

I think as a premise that we need to look at the United States as a 
place for a growth platform. We need to look at how we can grow the 
economic activity, increase the freedom for our people and the 
population overall, provide for everybody, and in that process grow and 
provide more opportunities for people here and for us in our future and 
future generations.

If we go the way the Democratic majority is putting forward in this 
budget, we are going to see increased taxes, we are going to see 
increased spending of a substantial nature. We are not going to deal 
with the entitlement crisis we are already in, and we are not going to 
be able to provide for opportunities in our future.

There are fundamental choices that people need to make and I will 
articulate these and I will go through them specifically. Our economy 
is currently experiencing a significant slowdown associated with the 
subprime mortgage meltdown, difficulties in financial markets, and 
certainly a slowing in our housing markets, which includes rising 
foreclosures.

With that backdrop, though, now would seem to be exactly the wrong 
time to be talking about tax increases. Just on a basic level, you 
would look at that and say: If you have a slowing economy, is that the 
time to raise taxes? And I think most people, if you ask them, they 
would say: No, that is the time you cut tax rates to try to stimulate 
economic growth.

Yet this Democratic budget provides just the opposite, a very large 
tax increase, raising taxes by $1.2 trillion, the largest tax hike 
ever. That is not something you want to do when the economy is slowing. 
It goes against economic fundamentals. But it also shows the 
fundamental impact of the Federal budget on the overall economy. This 
tax increase will be wide and deep, affecting nearly 116 million 
Americans, millions of American families, including seniors who will 
owe thousands of dollars more to pay for more and more Government.

And, yes, this budget projects to make the Federal Government even 
larger and more intrusive. Not satisfied in the Democrat's last budget 
with a $205 billion 5-year discretionary spending increase; this 2009 
Democrat budget will increase spending by $210 billion over 5 years in 
this budget. Of course, this will lead to more and more debt that will 
pile up on top of more and more spending.

I think the second major shortcoming of the budget proposal put 
forward by the majority is the failure to confront the need for 
entitlement reform. Now this is something we have been talking about 
for some period of time. I stand ready, and I hope a lot of my 
colleagues do, to go at, on a joint, bipartisan basis, entitlement 
reform. We have talked about it a lot. I am going to show charts on 
this. But the entitlement plans are going to eat up the entire budget. 
We will go through the specifics, but it is clearly an unsustainable 
system that we are in right now.

Like in most problems, the earlier you deal with it the more options 
you have to deal with it. And the earlier you deal with it the more 
likely it will be that you successfully deal with it. And the earlier 
you deal with it the less pain there will be over a period of time, 
than if you deal with it later.


These problems with entitlement promises that are unsustainable are 
the same. If we can come together, on a bipartisan basis now, start an 
entitlement reform, A, the country would cheer that we would do it; B, 
we would have more options; C, it would be more successful; D, it would 
be less painful. That is the way we need to go at it in dealing with 
our entitlement reforms.

But in the Democrats' fiscal year 2009 budget, we see that they are 
again wishing to ignore this pressing problem associated with 
entitlement spending. So I wanted to take a look now at some of these 
problems and put a few charts up in front of people I think they are 
familiar with, but they remind us of the magnitude and the growing 
nearness of this problem of entitlement programs.



If you look at the red line on this first chart, you see that total 
primary spending is projected by the CBO, Congressional Budget Office, 
a nonpartisan office, to rise from its current level of 18 percent of 
GDP to more than 30 percent at the end of this chart, 2082, a long ways 
out there, but it shows you clearly where the trend line goes under the 
current entitlement programs.

Those are not adjustments to entitlement programs, those are current 
entitlement programs. Yes, Federal spending is projected to rise to 
over 30 percent of our Nation's GDP, under our current set of 
entitlement promises.

The second chart shows that the longer we wait to address the 
unsustainable nature of promises in our entitlement programs, which 
this Democratic budget totally ignores, the bigger will be the pain.

Now, here you can see reductions in spending that would be necessary 
to solve our entitlement crisis. For example, if we were to address our 
fiscal problems solely by cutting Federal spending starting this year, 
we would need an across-the-board spending cut of close to 7 percent. 
If we wait until 2020, we would have to cut spending across the board 
by 9 percent. To wait until 2040, you have to do it by 15 percent.

That is my point; that is, the sooner you start to work on these 
things the less pain you have to have in the process, and the more 
likely it is that you are going to be successful in getting this done. 
These are dramatic spending cuts. But what if we can get started now 
and on a bipartisan basis, just going on a slight level and give people 
time to prepare for adjustments that will surely have to be made?

You still get a much larger impact if you don't fix the unsustainable 
nature of our entitlement promises now, and instead wait longer. The 
longer we ignore the unsustainable nature of entitlement promises, the 
bigger will be the pain associated with bringing the Nation back to a 
sustainable fiscal course.

Now, this is a commonsense proposal. You would say: Of course, then, 
I should deal with that now. We are offering to do it on a bipartisan 
basis. The chairman of the Budget Committee from the majority claims 
that the task force he and Senator Gregg wish to form to study the 
entitlement programs is the only way to deal with the problems. I am a 
cosponsor. I would sponsor legislation to do this. But that in no way 
mitigates the need to get started as soon as we can to reform 
entitlements now. Why wait for a task force to form? I think we need to 
get started on this now.

To see how severe problems associated with the entitlement program 
promises are, consider the next chart which shows CBO's projection of 
health care spending. Now, here is the big one that eats us up. We know 
this. We have got fabulous things going in the health care field that 
probably are going to drive these costs up even more than this chart 
projects.

I want to see those things developed further as far as the technology 
and the ability. I was out at the National Institutes of Health this 
morning looking at some of the things they are working on at the 
National Institute of Mental Health, understanding the mind and how it 
works. Fantastic.

I want us to continue to fund that. That is going to probably drive 
this line up even higher. That may be the nature of where we are. We do 
not want to stop that funding. But then you see how dramatic and 
important it is to address this piece of it, the health care piece of 
it now, and to begin to address it at this point in time.

Net Federal spending on Medicare and Medicaid now accounts for about 
4 percent of GDP. CBO projects, given current entitlement promises and 
not these major changes I am talking about, that spending will grow to 
almost 20 percent of GDP in the projected time period here of 2082. A 
long time now, still the trend line is known and knowable and we should 
use the ability to deal with it more now than putting that off until 
later on. So spending on Medicare and Medicaid alone, according to the 
projections on this chart, will use up the entire historic norms for 
tax collection and beyond.

But Medicare and Medicaid are not the only entitlement programs. The 
next chart shows Social Security spending as a share of GDP in the past 
and spending projections for the future. While spending for Social 
Security benefits has been between 4 and 4.5 percent of GDP for the 
past couple of decades, it is projected to rise significantly to 6 
percent over the length of this chart's projection, not near the growth 
of entitlement programs, but still showing a significant 50 percent 
rise. If you add the 20 percent of GDP accounted for by Federal 
promises for Medicare and Medicaid, 6 percent for Social Security 
benefits, you see that the Federal Government has already promised over 
25 percent of our total yearly output to entitlement spending. This 
only counts promised entitlement spending right now. As I mentioned 
previously, our historical norm for the amount of tax collection that 
our society gives and puts into the Federal Government is about 20 
percent. If you get above that, people really start to yell. So we are 
already above that in the promises made in three entitlement programs. 
And that takes into account nothing for the military, for schools, for 
other social programs, for infrastructure, for unemployment, or for any 
discretionary spending.

The Democratic majority seems to want to focus on one route here, and 
that is tax and spend. The Democratic majority, unfortunately, has 
chosen in their budget to ignore our Nation's looming fiscal crisis 
that is sure to come from the unsustainable nature of entitlement 
programs. This fiscal year 2009 budget promises to impose the largest 
tax increase in the history of this Nation on American families and 
does this at precisely the wrong time, when the economy is struggling. 
This will be the largest tax hike ever, amounting to an additional 
$3,135 in taxes each year for every household, over $3,100 a year 
increase in household taxes at exactly the time when people are getting 
concerned about economic activity. Just when we did the stimulus, we 
raise taxes.

I want to take up the theme of the impact on our economy of this 
budget. That is the role of the Joint Economic Committee, and that is 
why they have been given a period of time to comment on this, because 
this has such a profound impact.

Now I want to talk about the impact of raising taxes at this point in 
time on the overall economy. I have talked about entitlement programs, 
the failure to address those, the long-term pain that is associated 
with that, and the additional pain by putting it off on a longer basis. 
Now what about the impact of raising taxes at this point in time on our 
economy and who is going to pay those increased taxes? The Democratic 
majority's budget will raise taxes on at least 116 million Americans. 
It is not just on the rich, unless there are 116 million people 
categorized as that in the United States. It will tax the hard-earned 
income and retirement benefits of millions of American families and 
seniors to pay for larger and larger government rather than reform. I 
think what people want to see is, you guys are going to operate within 
the amount that you have and reform the system. Reform what you have, 
don't tax and spend. Let's leave taxes where they are or make them 
lower so we can grow the economy more and then reform the system within 
rather than just adding and adding and adding.

The majority would have you believe that they will offer amendments 
to make the middle-class parts of the tax reductions permanent. They 
are not including any teeth in that budget amendment, and we will 
almost certainly not see legislation to accomplish that extension in 
this Congress. It is just empty promises. Democrats complain that the 
tax relief measures of 2001 and 2003 primarily benefitted the wealthy. 
Let's go through a couple of charts to look at that claim and see who 
is paying these tax increases or paying and receiving the tax relief of 
2001 and 2003 and who would pay, if what the majority is putting 
forward is enacted, the tax increases.

As shown by the changes in the share of total Federal tax liability 
by income group on the chart, the percentage of all taxes paid by the 
top income group has increased since the tax relief measures were 
enacted, and the share of taxes paid by the bottom four income groups 
has declined. I think this tells a dramatic and different story than 
what we hear a lot of times in the rhetoric.


Where you look at the various income categories, the lowest 20-percent 
income category, next 20, next 20 up, and on up, and then we put a 
block here showing the top 1 percent income category. My point of 
showing this is on your bottom four income categories, the lowest 20 
percent earners under the changes in Federal tax liabilities 2000 to 
2005, this is the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, the greatest beneficiaries 
under those tax cuts were the lowest income categories. The biggest 
beneficiary under those tax cuts was the bottom 20 percent. That is as 
it should be. The lowest income category should have the biggest 
impact, the most positive impact. You are seeing that in then the next 
lowest 20 percent, the bottom 40 percent here, then the 60, and then 
the 80 percent of lowest incomes.

Now you look at the top 20 percent earners, they pay an increase as a 
percentage of the Federal budget of taxes under these tax cuts in 2001 
and 2003. And your top 1 percent is up 8.2 percent in terms of what 
they pay as their share of Federal taxes.

My point in saying this is, these tax cuts have worked as they should 
have. They have cut the overall tax rate for individuals, and 
particularly for lower income individuals. They have stimulated the 
economy, and they have shifted the tax burden to the higher end of the 
income distribution. When you say tax cuts for the rich, your really 
should be talking about tax cuts for most Americans and the percentage 
they pay. This is as it should be. This is how it was designed. So when 
people say we have done these tax cuts for the rich, we are not going 
to extend them, does this chart show tax cuts for the rich? I think it 
shows tax cuts primarily benefitting the lower 80 percent of wage 
earners and having a burden shifting to the top 20 percent of income 
earners. That is the design it should have. It has grown the economy 
overall. It has been the way we should go.


Yes, despite the tax relief measures that many tout as tax cuts for 
the wealthy, the share of taxes paid by the top 10 percent of income 
earners rose more quickly than during previous periods, including 
periods with higher top marginal tax rates. According to the most 
recent data, the share of all Federal income taxes paid by the top 10 
percent has reached an all-time high of 73 percent. Let me say that 
again. According to the most recent data, the share of all Federal 
income taxes paid by the top 10 percent has reached an all-time high of 
73 percent. You can see the trend line of what is taking place from 
1979; the top 10 percent of income earners, 1979, the percentage of 
income taxes paid was below 50 percent. In 2000, 68 percent; now it is 
all the way up to 73 percent, as it should be.

Democrats talk about raising taxes on the wealthy, but fail to 
mention that not extending the tax relief measures of 2001 and 2003 
will result in huge tax increases for all Americans, as this chart 
displaying average percent increases in taxes by income levels shows. I 
wanted to show you this one. Low- and middle-income families will be 
the hardest hit by the scheduled tax increases that will occur in 2011. 
These families benefitted the most from a reduction in the bottom tax 
rate, from the child tax credit and marriage penalty relief contained 
in the 2001, 2003 tax relief measures. If the tax relief measures of 
2001 and 2003 are not made permanent, families with $50,000 in income 
will see their tax bills rise by 261 percent in 2011.

On the other hand, families with $500,000 or more in income will 
experience a 12- to 13-percent rise in their taxes. Is that what you 
want for a structure of tax increases, putting the largest hikes on the 
lowest earning families and the smallest hikes on the upper earners? I 
don't think that is the way you want to structure tax increases. I 
don't think that is the way the American public would want to see that 
structured. I don't think the American people would want to see any tax 
increases. The average household will pay an additional $1,833 under 
the Democrat's plan. Many will have their taxes rise by even more. 
Seniors, families with children will pay an additional $2,000 or more. 
Married couples will pay an additional $3,000. Small business owners 
will have their tax bills rise by more than $4,000.

Another shortcoming in this budget is the failure to adequately 
address the growing burden that the AMT will place on many middle-
income families. Although the AMT was enacted initially to prevent 
millionaires from avoiding taxes altogether, it will soon ironically 
affect a greater percentage of middle-income married couples with 
children than millionaires. Let me show this chart, the ones it is 
going to impact.

This says, middle-income married couples with kids will be more 
likely than millionaires to pay the AMT in 2010. Here is your married 
couples with kids, AGI of $75,000 to $100,000, 89 percent will be in 
the AMT; millionaires, 39 percent will be in the AMT. The AMT needs to 
go. I think we should go and offer an optional flat tax for the overall 
Tax Code and do away with the AMT altogether. You can see its 
disproportionate negative impact on families, not hitting its target 
and having an overall very negative impact on the economy.

Given the time I have left, I want to talk about a proposal we are 
going to put up in this budget and it is a bill on the CARFA 
commission, the Committee on Accountability and Review of Federal 
Agencies. It is something we have talked about before and we have had 
it up as a proposal in the Congress. I have had it up as a proposal and 
I have had a number of cosponsors. On the current CARFA bill, we have 
24 cosponsors. I hope it will be a bill that my colleagues in the 
majority will look at and support. It is built on the BRAC Commission. 
I would note that the BRAC Commission provided for a process to close 
military bases. Before we had BRAC, it was impossible to close a 
military base. Any time you wanted to close one, the people in that 
district, that State would fight you. You would never get any of them 
closed. We put together this BRAC process. They came up with a list of 
bases to close, and then they presented it to Congress. Congress got 
one vote up or down, close all of them, keep all of them, deal, no 
deal. Through that system, we have now saved the Federal taxpayer over 
$65 billion from that process of closing military bases and 
consolidating them in a few areas, working toward greater efficiencies. 
It has been very successful.

What we need to do now as a part of the Federal budget is take that 
to the rest of the Government so we can close Federal programs that are 
no longer working.

I want to show you this report card of how successful is the Federal 
Government. This is the Federal Government report card, and this is 
done as a scoring by Federal agencies, where they score the 
effectiveness of various programs for hitting their intended target 
when they were started and for the budget they have been given. I want 
to note that if you gave a GPA to the Federal Government on 
accomplishments that it does with the money it has been given, the 
overall grade point average that the Federal Government gets is a 1.14 
out of a 4.0 GPA. Now, that is not very good.


What happens--everybody knows this is what takes place--we get a 
program started, it gets funded, and it is never ended. It may be 
completely successful and all is accomplished, but the program 
continues because we do not do any sort of culling process at all. Then 
we want to do something new, but wait a minute, we did not do away with 
the old.

The BRAC process we are talking about putting on the rest of 
Government--this CARFA Commission--would put that process on the rest 
of Government and I think dramatically improve this GPA because now you 
start getting rid of programs that are no longer effective, just like 
when we had military bases that were in places that were there because 
of maybe the Spanish American War or the early wars in this country--
completely out of position, no longer necessary but sustained because 
they had supporters in the system, even though they were not being 
effective.

Well, imagine if you take that system of protection and nonculling 
and apply it to the rest of Government. How many programs do we have 
that we have created over the 200-plus-year history of the country, and 
we have never done away with any of them? We have not even adequately 
evaluated their effectiveness. You can see why we would be able to 
improve the government's GPA score and be able to have more money to 
put in higher priority


areas, such as the National Institutes of Health, where I would like to 
do a war on cancer; or the things we need to do for infrastructure in 
the country. Yet we have never been able to eliminate any spending.

Here is a systems approach, under my proposal, that has worked in 
another area, that has been key, that has produced $65 billion in 
savings, that we need to take to the rest of Government.

So one of the amendments I will be putting forward is asking for the 
establishment of this CARFA Commission--Commission on Budgetary 
Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies--that will provide a 
list--a group on an annual basis--of programs that should be eliminated 
and give Congress then one vote, up or down: agree or disagree whether 
to eliminate this whole group or to keep the whole group.

I think that is something we need to do overall. It ought to be 
something we can come together on, on both sides of the aisle. I would 
note that in traveling across this country and talking with people, one 
of the big things the American public wants to see us do is get 
together and get something done on something that is significant to 
them.

One of those things is that we would be much more responsible to the 
Federal taxpayers as to what we are spending their money on. If we can 
become more responsible on that and work across the aisle and they 
could see Federal programs that are being eliminated because they are 
no longer effective or they are wasteful--and then they would actually 
see that taking place--I think people would then trust us more with 
taxpayer dollars rather than not trusting us with taxpayer dollars. If 
we can show them that, they would see us doing it on a bipartisan 
basis.

This is something for which the outcome is certainly not stacked. 
This is something that both sides could support as a process because we 
have in the past. We could finally see something starting to take place 
in eliminating waste, fraud, and abuse in the Federal Government. 
Everybody is opposed to waste, fraud, and abuse in this body--
everybody. Yet it continues because the system is built to spend, it is 
not built to save, it is not built to reduce. We have a system that is 
built to save and reduce, and it is called that BRAC system in the 
context of military bases. Then that saved money is put into higher 
priority needs. Let's take that system out to the broader body of 
government.

This is the short period of time given to the Joint Economic 
Committee to talk about the impact of the overall budget on the U.S. 
economy. The impact of this budget that the majority is putting forward 
is profound and it is negative on the overall U.S. economy. I urge my 
colleagues to vote against it because of that.

It fails to address any sort of entitlement reform. It increases 
taxes at exactly the wrong time. You do not need to increase taxes, I 
think, at any time because of the scale of taxes. But when you have a 
slowing economy, it is the absolute wrong time to raise taxes. The 
Democrat's budget also does not deal with reform of the AMT, the 
alternative minimum tax, which it should. It raises taxes on lower 
income individuals in this society and in our economy, not on upper 
income individuals. Again, it does have tax increase at exactly the 
wrong time. And it does not include things such as fundamental spending 
reform through a CARFA type of process we used in the military base 
BRAC system before.

Because of these failures of big-ticket, overarching items, this is 
the wrong budget at the wrong time that will have a negative impact on 
our overall economy. It will have a profoundly negative impact on our 
overall economy. It is not the right medicine of what we need to move 
forward. For us to grow this economy at this point in time, we need 
lower taxes, not higher taxes. For us to grow this economy and provide 
for our future, we need entitlement reform now. We also need to be able 
to get at our wasteful spending in the Government. We need to adjust 
our systems to be able to do that. Those are reforms that if we did 
them now--and did them at this point in time--we could have a much 
brighter and sustained future. This budget does not provide for those. 
For those reasons, I will be opposing this budget.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and reserve any time I have on the 
Republican side for the JEC.