---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `1d415c67c935329e9fd957bdd54969a8`
`Mr. PENCE — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. PENCE. I thank the gentlelady for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I have listened to this debate all week, and I must say 
I admire the seriousness and the civility of most, if not all, of those 
who have come to this floor in this historic week to address the issue 
and express themselves on this resolution. But I rise respectfully to 
urge my colleagues in both parties to vote ''no'' on this no-confidence 
resolution.

I support the President's call for a surge of 21,500 forces in 
Baghdad because the President has not just asked for more troops for 
more troops' sake. Despite what has been said again and again on this 
floor, Mr. Speaker, this is a new strategy. It involves new tactics and 
new rules of engagement on the ground.

This surge of forces in Baghdad, designed to quell violence in that 
capital city and enable a political solution to take hold, was part and 
parcel of the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, which said, as 
Americans could see for themselves on page 74 of the Iraq Study Group, 
and as Chairman Lee Hamilton of Indiana said before the Foreign Affairs 
Committee, the Iraq Study Group concluded that a temporary surge, and 
they used the word ''surge,'' a temporary surge of forces in Baghdad 
would be acceptable to them to quell violence.

But while I must tell you that many of my colleagues have no 
confidence in the President's new way forward in Iraq, I say with 
respect, I have no confidence in the ability of Congress to conduct 
war. It was Napoleon Bonaparte who said hundreds of years ago, ''I 
would rather face 20 brilliant generals than one mediocre one.''

I would assure you today, Mr. Speaker, that our enemies would rather 
face 435 commanders in chief rather than one.

Our forefathers rejected war by committee when they enshrined the 
power to conduct war exclusively in Article II of the Constitution of 
the United States. In Article I, where this House finds its home, is 
the power to declare war. It is the power to appropriate funding and to 
set essentially military rules of conduct by statute. But the ability 
and the conduct of the war of the Commander in Chief is exclusively 
vested in the President of the United States, in that document upon 
which we all swear our oath of allegiance.

So I stand with our Commander in Chief, but also in a very profound 
sense, Mr. Speaker, I stand with the Constitution.

Vote ''no'' on this resolution and embrace our Constitution as 
written.