---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `1d46ca04c7f8eb800633b400e536fe14`
`Mr. BROWN — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I thank Senator Feingold and echo the words 
of the Democratic leader, the majority leader, Harry Reid, and his 
comments about this war and about the future of our country and what we 
need to do. I rise in support of the Feingold amendment.

General Petraeus confirmed that our troops, operating under horrific 
conditions, are displaying the courage and the skill that define this 
whole engagement. Our troops have been courageous. Our troops have been 
skillful. Our troops have been effective. Our troops have been 
selfless. Our troops have done everything we have asked them to.

But the civilians at the Pentagon and the politicians at the White 
House have bungled this war. The administration is selling one war and 
fighting another. They are selling a war where they are saying with a 
little more patience, we can truly say ''mission accomplished,'' as if 
we didn't hear that last year and the year before and the year before 
that. The President's fighting of the war is one step forward, two 
steps back, and one that will require perhaps a decade-long engagement.

More than anything, Americans deserve the truth. We are losing men 
and women, without a clear idea of whether or when we can bring our 
troops home. We are refraining from redeploying troops based on 
possibilities--possibilities that are no worse than the realities we 
are facing now.

Especially and mostly, we have lost our focus. We have lost our focus 
on Afghanistan, on rooting out al-Qaida, finding Osama bin Laden, and 
protecting our borders. Instead, we spend $2.5 billion a week on a 
war--$2.5 billion a week on a war that even General Petraeus, by not 
answering Senator Warner's question, acknowledges this war is making us 
no safer. So we spend $2.5 billion a week and the war is not making us 
safer and we are not doing what we should be in Afghanistan, what we 
should be doing in rooting out al-Qaida, what we should be doing in 
finding Osama bin Laden, and what we should be doing in protecting our 
borders.

Instead, we are mired in a civil war, with no end in sight. As long 
as the Iraqis, as Senator Feingold said, and so many of us who have 
wanted to have a plan to redeploy our troops out of Iraq for 2 or 3 
years now--as long as our commitment looks open-ended, as long as there 
is no end in sight to this civil war, there is no incentive for the 
Iraqis to do what they need to do; there is no incentive for a 
political settlement, where Sunnis and Shia and Kurds work together on 
a political settlement with a political compromise, and there is no 
incentive for the Iraqis because they think we are always going to be 
there in this open-ended commitment to the civil war. There is no 
incentive for them to do what they need to do to build a military 
security and police security force until the Iraqis know that, yes, 
there is an end date. We need to pass the Feingold amendment and the 
message will be that U.S. troops are going to redeploy out of Iraq, so 
it is now incumbent upon the Iraqis to do what they need to do through 
political compromise and through building their military and police 
security forces, and then Iraq can move forward. As long as we stay 
mired in a civil war and they think it is an open-ended commitment, we 
will continue to see this lack of progress.

Military victories we can win, and have, and our soldiers and marines 
have waged and won those battles. But until we have a political 
victory, a compromise, a settlement, and the Iraqis build up their own 
security forces, the war goes on and on. It is time to bring our troops 
home in the safest and most orderly way we can, as Iraq accomplishes 
other urgent goals, such as border security, and we address the issues 
in Afghanistan and with al-Qaida.

I support the Feingold amendment. It makes sense that we finally 
change course in Iraq and do the right thing for the Iraqi people and 
for our country.