---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `1d51fad5f74652ed16ac1d0353bc14a9`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this has been a very spirited and 
meaningful debate. The amendment that has


been offered by two people I respect greatly. I do not question their 
motives about loving our country anymore than I do. They are trying to 
find out what is best for Iraq and a very difficult situation. We have 
an honest disagreement.

I think it has been a very healthy debate of reaching the same goal; 
that is, a successful outcome in Iraq. But make no mistake about it, 
from my point of view, the reason I oppose this resolution, it is a 
change in military strategy.

Senator Reed talked about similarities between what General Petraeus 
said and what this resolution would do. There are some similarities, 
but it is a fundamental change in military strategy. After General 
Petraeus testified, is that wise for us to do that? Is it wise for the 
Congress to basically take operational control of this war from General 
Petraeus?

Because that is what this resolution would do, it restructures our 
forces in a way he did not recommend. It would be a very overt 
rejection of General Petraeus's leadership, his strategy, his vision, 
and his recommendations. I think we need to understand that would be 
the consequence of passing this resolution.

It would be saying, respectfully, no to General Petraeus and yes to 
the Congress in terms of how to run a war. I think that is not wise. It 
is the de facto return to the old strategy. For 3/1/2/ years, we had 
the strategy on the ground in Iraq that did not produce results that 
were beneficial.

I am a military lawyer, and I have no expertise about how to invade a 
country or manage a population once the invasion is over. But I can 
tell you this based on common sense and 3/1/2/ years of experience. The 
old strategy was not working. The first trip to Baghdad after the fall 
of the capital, you were able to move around, it was a bit chaotic, but 
you were able to go downtown and do some things you have a hard time 
even doing today.

But by the third trip to Baghdad after the fall, we were in a 
security environment, almost in a tank. So it was clear to me, training 
the Iraqi troops, having a small military footprint, was not achieving 
the security we needed for reconciliation. And the few ''dead-enders'' 
were the most resilient people in the world. If the insurgency was in 
its last throes, it was a deep throe.

Every time I asked the people coming back who were running the old 
strategy and testifying to Congress, what is the general number of 
insurgents, about 5,000 hard-core insurgents. It is the most resilient 
5,000 in the world. They were able, certainly, to do a lot of havoc. 
Thank goodness we changed strategies.

Senators Levin and Reed and others have been arguing for a very long 
time to change course and change strategies. The President heard that 
call. He sat down with military leaders and put a new commander in the 
field. We have, in fact, changed strategies. What did we do? We went a 
different way. Instead of withdrawing troops and doing more of the 
same, we added troops. As Senator Inhofe said, it is the best thing we 
have done. These additional 30,000 combat troops being interjected into 
the battlefield have paid off in security gains we have never seen 
before.

Hats off to the surge. To those who are part of the surge, those who 
have been in Iraq for a very long time, I acknowledge and respect your 
success because the success has been undeniable. The challenges are 
also undeniable. But without the surge, there would have been no 
turnaround in Anbar. The people in Anbar had had enough of al-Qaida. We 
can't take credit for that. Al-Qaida overplayed its hand, and we had 
additional combat power in place to take advantage of a population that 
was ready to make a choice, a choice for the good. Their rejection of 
al-Qaida is not national political reconciliation, it is not embracing 
democracy. But it is good news because you have Sunni Arabs rejecting 
the al-Qaida agenda, and that is great news.

This resolution not only is a rejection of General Petraeus's 
strategy, his vision for how to be successful, it has an impractical 
effect. The rules of engagement one would have to draft around 
implementing this strategy are almost impossible from my point of view. 
Just to train and fight al-Qaida, how do you do that, when you have all 
kinds of enemies running around Iraq, including Iran, including 
sectarian violence? The idea that we are going to change missions and 
adopt this resolution as a new mission and have such a limited military 
ability is unwise and impractical.

It is a dangerous precedent for the Congress to set to withdraw from 
a military commander who has been successful the power to implement a 
strategy that has proven to be successful.

The basic premise of the resolution is, if we change strategies, 
reject General Petraeus and go to the old strategy, which is, in 
essence, what we would be doing, it would bring about better 
reconciliation. My fundamental belief is that we will never have 
political reconciliation until we have better security. The new 
strategy, the surge, has brought about better security than we have 
ever had before in Iraq. Even though it is still a very dangerous 
place, there is no evidence to suggest that reconciliation would be 
enhanced by rejecting Petraeus and adopting the Congress's plan for 
Iraq. Quite the opposite. I think all of the evidence we have before us 
is that a smaller military footprint, when you are training and 
fighting behind walls, empowers the enemy. If we adopted this 
resolution, the security gains we have achieved would be lost. We would 
be abandoning people who have come forward to help us. We wouldn't have 
the military power to seize the momentum that has been gained from the 
surge. We would actually roll back the momentum that has been gained. 
We would put people at risk who have come forward to help us. For 
example, 12,000 people have joined the police force in Anbar in 2007. 
In 2006, only 1,000 people joined the police in Anbar. There is local 
reconciliation going on. There is a realization by the Iraqi people 
that now is the time to step forward. Their politicians are lagging 
behind the local population, but it will not be long before Baghdad 
understands that they have to reconcile their country through the 
political process. They will only do that with better security.

When you reach across the aisle in America, you can pay a heavy price 
in terms of your political future. When you reach across the aisle in 
Baghdad, your family can be killed. Better security will breed more 
political reconciliation, not less. To abandon this strategy now, to 
substitute the Congress's judgment for General Petraeus's judgment, is 
ill-advised and unwarranted. Quite frankly, General Petraeus and the 
troops serving under him deserve our support and our respect, and they 
have earned the ability to carry on their mission. They have earned, 
based on success on the battlefield, the right to move forward as they 
deem to be militarily sound.

The Congress is at 11 percent. Part of the reason we are at 11 
percent is that we don't seem to be able to come together and solve 
hard problems. Why do we believe we have a better insight into how to 
win this war than a battlefield commander who has produced results 
never known before? I don't think we do.

I will end this debate in a respectful manner. We have the same goal, 
and that is to bring about political reconciliation and success in 
Iraq. Unfortunately, this goes backwards at a time when we need to go 
forward.

(At the request of Mr. Reid, the following statement was ordered to 
be printed in the Record.)