---
---

# ADAPTED HOUSING ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY GRANT PROGRAM
## `1d53ce0ea6a654538f8ac0ded10bd885`
`Ms. HERSETH SANDLIN — 19 May 2009`

---


Ms. HERSETH SANDLIN. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and I thank the chairman 
for yielding.

As the chairwoman of the Veterans Affairs' Economic Opportunity 
Subcommittee, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1170, as amended. 
I would like to thank Chairman Filner, Ranking Member Buyer on the full 
committee and the sponsor of the bill, and subcommittee ranking member, 
Mr. Boozman, for their leadership and bipartisan support of this bill, 
which the full committee passed on May 6.

The bill offers important improvements to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs' Specially Adapted Housing Program by creating a 5-year pilot 
program to promote the research and development of adaptive 
technologies. With many veterans returning from the conflicts in Iraq 
and Afghanistan with injuries such as traumatic brain injury, it is 
important that research and development help meet the demand for cost-
effective solutions that could mitigate the needs for around-the-clock 
nursing care or institutionalization for seriously wounded veterans. 
These solutions can be as simple as ramps or other structural 
modifications or they can be more complex, such as voice recognition 
controls for a home's heating system.

Also, H.R. 1170, as amended, gives the Department of Veterans Affairs 
a 30 percent stake in any patent approved as a result of this grant 
program. This


measure will allow taxpayers to receive a reasonable return on their 
investment as well as to promote creativity and ingenuity among the 
designers and inventors working with the VA on these grants.

The Specially Adapted Housing Program has been a tremendous help to 
many veterans, and it is expected to fund 1,250 projects in 2010. This 
bill will expand and improve this program, and it is a wise investment 
in our veterans.

I thank Chairman Filner for noting the working relationship that I 
have with the distinguished ranking member, Mr. Boozman of Arkansas. 
When he once chaired the subcommittee, we worked together then and 
continue to work today on a whole host of programs, particularly 
housing for our disabled veterans in light of the current needs of 
veterans and their families.

I want to thank Mr. Boozman for sponsoring this important bill, and I 
encourage my colleagues to support H.R. 1170, as amended.