---
---

# None
## `1d54a52870cb222b09db532d158b320b`
`Mr. WAMP — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. WAMP. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the tone and the statement of our 
colleague who just completed his hour and was talking about what our 
country can do when we pull together. Over the next hour, I believe 
that several Members of the Republican Conference here in the House of 
Representatives will come down and share their perspectives gained, 
many of them from physically going to Iraq or Afghanistan, or both, 
during the recent August district work period when Members were back in 
their district and allowed to travel to give firsthand accounts of what 
they learned and their meetings with General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker and others, and a real up-to-date report on the situation in 
Iraq.

But I do agree with the gentleman in his closing comments that we 
must as a Nation take ownership again of certain things not even in a 
bipartisan way but in a nonpartisan way because these are America's 
problems. They are not Republican or Democratic problems. And frankly, 
as much as some people would like to say it or believe it or use it for 
political purposes, this is not President Bush's war; this is America's 
fight. President Bush and Vice President Cheney will be gone in just a 
little over a year. The problems will not go away. The threats will 
still be here. The challenges of this generation to answer our 
patriotic call to this Nation, to answer our responsibility in 
sacrifice and service will continue, I believe, for some time.

I did not go to Iraq in August, but my nephew did. Specialist Jeffrey 
Watts is now serving his country as a soldier in Iraq for the next 15 
months as part of the 1-181st Field Artillery Brigade. I heard the 
gentleman from Minnesota talk about the deployments. What I was 
fascinated by when I was with the 1-181st earlier this summer as they 
shipped out to Fort Bliss to train to go to Iraq, is how many members 
of the 1-181st, and this is a National Guard unit, also deployed with 
the 278th from our Tennessee National Guard a year and a half ago and 
came back and redeployed with the 1-181st. They didn't have to but did; 
and how many vice versa went before, many of them because they are 
volunteering to serve their country in harm's way. In harm's way, big 
harm's way, because they love the opportunity to serve their country. 
They are incredibly selfless patriots of the highest order, and I do 
think this House comes together in praise of these valiant Americans 
who understand that freedom is not free and that somebody has to stand 
between a real threat and our civilian population, and that is what 
they are doing.



General Petraeus will be here next Monday with Ambassador Crocker to 
give us an update. Everybody is anticipating that, and you have this 
review and that review and these stats and those stats. And even the 
Government Accountability Office is heavily involved, as if they 
somehow supervise the Pentagon. But I think it is important for us all 
to prepare to listen objectively next Monday because I think you are 
hearing in a bipartisan way, Members like the gentleman from Washington 
State from the Democratic side who recently came back and clearly said 
much progress has been made. This Petraeus plan is working.

The guy who understands this insurgency threat more than anyone in 
our military and therefore anyone in the world is leading a new 
approach in Iraq. And the report will come beginning next week. And if 
we are objective, I think we will support his recommendations. If we 
are not objective and we have a political bias or an agenda, we may 
reject it.

Some of his words in anticipation of next week are already out. He 
talks about the extraordinary progress in the Anbar Province. General 
Petraeus says that was the result not of military actions certainly 
alone, it was the result of really a political shift where the 
population, led by the sheikhs of major tribes, decided to reject al 
Qaeda and its Taliban-like ideological behavior and the extremist 
behavior that they have come to associate with it.

He said: ''That is what brought the level of violence down so 
dramatically, because al Qaeda no longer finds a hospitable place in 
the Euphrates River valley the way it certainly did in the past. We 
have been banging away at al Qaeda for years, but until we could hold 
them off with the help of the local population and local volunteers, 
those operations were never as meaningful as they have been in recent 
months. That is what we are trying to do in other locations in Iraq. 
That has also led to a rise in the detainee population over the last 6 
months as more al Qaeda operatives have been caught. And while there is 
always a concern that they will gain strength, the pool of potential 
recruits has actually shrunk. Their sanctuaries have shrunk 
considerably so they don't have the ease of locations and movements 
where they are safe the way they were before. Clearly there is real 
progress being made. War is an ugly thing. It is always an ugly thing. 
It is not perfect, but great progress is being made.''

Now, I am going to take the time before I introduce the gentlelady 
from Virginia and others that will come to read an opinion from a 
German journalist about Iraq that was in the Wall Street Journal last 
Monday and then submit it for the Record. Josef Joffee. He says:

''In contrast to President Bush's dark comparison between Iraq and 
the bloody aftermath of the Vietnam War last week, there is another, 
comforting version of the Vietnam analogy that gained currency among 
policymakers and pundits. It goes something like this:

''After that last helicopter took off from the U.S. Embassy in Saigon 
32 years ago, the nasty strategic consequences then predicted did not 
in fact materialize. The 'dominoes' did not fall. The Russians and 
Chinese did not take over, and America remained number one in Southeast 
Asia and in the world.

''But alas, cut-and-run from Iraq will not have the same 
serendipitous aftermath, because Iraq is not at all like Vietnam.

''Unlike Iraq, Vietnam was a peripheral arena of the Cold War. 
Strategic resources like oil were not at stake and neither were bases. 
In the global hierarchy of power, Vietnam was a pawn, not a pillar, and 
the decisive battle lines at the time were drawn in Europe, not in 
Southeast Asia.

''The Middle East, by contrast, was always the 'elephant path of 
history' as Israel's fabled defense minister, Moshe Dayan, put it. 
Legions of conquerors have marched up and down the Levant, and from 
Alexander's Macedonia all of the way to India. Other prominent visitors 
were Julius Caesar, Napoleon and the German Wehrmact.

''This is not just ancient history. Today, the great Middle East is a 
caldron even Macbeth's witches would be terrified to touch. The world's 
worst political and religious pathologies, combined with oil and gas, 
terrorism and nuclear ambitions.

''In short, unlike yesterday's Vietnam, the greater Middle East is 
the central strategic arena of the 21st century, as Europe was in the 
20th century. This is where three continents--Europe, Asia and Africa--
are joined. So let's take a moment to think about what would happen 
once that last Black Hawk took off from the Baghdad International 
Airport.

''Here is a short list. Iran advances to No. 1, completing its 
nuclear arms program undeterred and unhindered. America's cowed Sunni 
allies--Saudi Arabia, Jordan, the oil-rich Gulfies--are drawn into the 
Khomeinist orbit.

''You might ask: Wouldn't they converge into a mighty anti-Tehran 
alliance instead? Think again. The local players have never managed to 
establish a regional balance of power; it was always outsiders--first 
Britain, then the U.S.--who chastened the malfeasants and blocked anti-
Western intruders like Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia.

''With the U.S. gone from Iraq, emboldened jihadi forces shift to 
Afghanistan and turn it again into a bastion of Terror International. 
Syria reclaims Lebanon, which it has always labeled as a part of 'Great 
Syria.' Hezbollah and Hamas, both funded and equipped by Tehran, resume 
their war against Israel. Russia, extruded from the Middle East by 
adroit Kissingerian diplomacy in the 1970s, rebuilds its anti-Western 
alliances. In Iraq, the war escalates, unleashing even more torrents of 
refugees and provoking outside intervention, if not partition.

''Now, let's look beyond the region. The Europeans will be the first 
to revise their romantic notions of multipolarity, or world governance 
by committee. For worse than an overbearing, in-your-face America is a 
weakened and demoralized one. Shall Vladimir Putin's Russia acquire a 
controlling stake? This ruthlessly revisionist power wants revenge for 
its post-Gorbachev humiliation, not responsibility.

''China with its fabulous riches? The Middle Kingdom is still happily 
counting its currency surpluses as it pretties up for the Olympics, but 
watch its next play if the U.S. quits the highest stakes game in Iraq. 
The message from Beijing might well read: 'Move over America, the 
Western Pacific, as you call it, is our lake.'

''Europe? It is wealthy, populous and well-ordered. But strategic 
players, those 27 member-states of the E.U. are not. They cannot pacify 
the Middle East, stop the Iranian bomb, or keep Mr. Putin from wielding 
gas pipelines as tools of 'persuasion.' When the Europeans did wade 
into the fray, as in the Balkan wars of the 1990s, they let the U.S. 
Air Force go first.

''Now the upside. The U.S. may have spent piles of chips foolishly, 
but it is still the richest player at the global gaming table. In the 
Bush years, the U.S. may have squandered tons of political capital, but 
then the rest of the world is not exactly making up for the shortfall.

''Nor has the U.S. become a 'dispensable nation.' That is the most 
remarkable truth in these trying times. Its enemies from al Qaeda to 
Iran--and its rivals from Russia to China--can disrupt and defy, but 
they cannot build and lead.

''For all the damage to Washington's reputation, nothing of great 
import can be achieved without, let alone against, the United States. 
Can Moscow and Beijing bring peace to Palestine? Or mend a global 
financial system battered by the subprime crisis? Where are the central 
banks of Russia and China?

''The Bush presidency will soon be on the way out, but America is 
not. This truth has recently begun to sink in among the major 
Democratic contenders. Listen to Hillary Clinton who would leave 
'residual forces' to fight terrorism. Or to Barack Obama, who would 
stay in Iraq with an as-yet-unspecified force. Even the most leftist of 
them all, John Edwards, would keep troops around to stop genocide in 
Iraq or to prevent violence from spilling over into the neighborhood. 
And no wonder, for it might be one of them who will have to deal with 
the bitter aftermath if the U.S. slinks out of Iraq.

''These realists have it right. Withdrawal cannot serve America's 
interests on the day after tomorrow.


Friends and foes will ask: If this superpower doesn't care about the 
world's central and most dangerous stage, what will it care about?

''America's allies will look for insurance elsewhere. And the others 
will muse: If the police won't stay in the most critical of 
neighborhoods, why not break a few windows or just take over? The U.S. 
as 'Gulliver Unbound' may have stumbled during its 'unipolar' moment. 
But as giant with feet of clay, it will do worse and so will the rest 
of the world.''







 [From the Wall Street Journal, Aug. 27, 2007]















 If Iraq Falls















(By Josef Joffe)




 In contrast to President Bush's dark comparison between 


 Iraq and the bloody aftermath of the Vietnam War last week, 


 there is another, comforting version of the Vietnam analogy 


 that's gained currency among policy makers and pundits. It 


 goes something like this:



 After that last helicopter took off from the U.S. embassy 


 in Saigon 32 years ago, the nasty strategic consequences then 


 predicted did not in fact materialize. The ''dominoes'' did 


 not fall, the Russians and Chinese did not take over, and 


 America remained No. 1 in Southeast Asia and in the world.



 But alas, cut-and-run from Iraq will not have the same 


 serendipitous aftermath, because Iraq is not at all like 


 Vietnam.



 Unlike Iraq, Vietnam was a peripheral arena of the Cold 


 War. Strategic resources like oil were not at stake, and 


 neither were bases (OK, Moscow obtained access to Da Nang and 


 Cam Ranh Bay for a while). In the global hierarchy of power, 


 Vietnam was a pawn, not a pillar, and the decisive battle 


 lines at the time were drawn in Europe, not in Southeast 


 Asia.



 The Middle East, by contrast, was always the ''elephant 


 path of history,'' as Israel's fabled defense minister, Moshe 


 Dayan, put it. Legions of conquerors have marched up and down 


 the Levant, and from Alexander's Macedonia all the way to 


 India. Other prominent visitors were Julius Caesar, Napoleon 


 and the German Wehrmacht.



 This is not just ancient history. Today, the Greater Middle 


 East is a cauldron even Macbeth's witches would be terrified 


 to touch. The world's worst political and religious 


 pathologies combine with oil and gas, terrorism and nuclear 


 ambitions.



 In short, unlike yesterday's Vietnam, the Greater Middle 


 East (including Turkey) is the central strategic arena of the 


 21st century, as Europe was in the 20th. This is where three 


 continents--Europe, Asia, and Africa--are joined. So let's 


 take a moment to think about what would happen once that last 


 Blackhawk took off from Baghdad International.



 Here is a short list. Iran advances to No. 1, completing 


 its nuclear-arms program undeterred and unhindered.



 America's cowed Sunni allies--Saudi-Arabia, Jordan, the 


 oil-rich ''Gulfies''--are drawn into the Khomeinist orbit.



 You might ask: Wouldn't they converge in a mighty anti-


 Tehran alliance instead? Think again. The local players have 


 never managed to establish a regional balance of power; it 


 was always outsiders--first Britain, then the U.S.--who 


 chastened the malfeasants and blocked anti-Western intruders 


 like Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia.



 With the U.S. gone from Iraq, emboldened jihadi forces 


 shift to Afghanistan and turn it again into a bastion of 


 Terror International. Syria reclaims Lebanon, which it has 


 always labeled as a part of ''Great Syria.'' Hezbollah and 


 Hamas, both funded and equipped by Tehran, resume their war 


 against Israel. Russia, extruded from the Middle East by 


 adroit Kissingerian diplomacy in the 1970s, rebuilds its 


 anti-Western alliances. In Iraq, the war escalates, 


 unleashing even more torrents of refugees and provoking 


 outside intervention, if not partition.



 Now, let's look beyond the region. The Europeans will be 


 the first to revise their romantic notions of multipolarity, 


 or world governance by committee. For worse than an 


 overbearing, in-your-face America is a weakened and 


 demoralized one. Shall Vladimir Putin's Russia acquire a 


 controlling stake? This ruthlessly revisionist power wants 


 revenge for its post-Gorbachev humiliation, not 


 responsibility.



 China with its fabulous riches? The Middle Kingdom is still 


 happily counting its currency surpluses as it pretties up its 


 act for the 2008 Olympics, but watch its next play if the 


 U.S. quits the highest stakes game in Iraq. The message from 


 Beijing might well read: ''Move over America, the Western 


 Pacific, as you call it, is our lake.''



 Europe? It is wealthy, populous and well-ordered. But 


 strategic players those 27 member-states of the E.U. are not. 


 They cannot pacify the Middle East, stop the Iranian bomb or 


 keep Mr. Putin from wielding gas pipelines as tools of 


 ''persuasion.'' When the Europeans did wade into the fray, as 


 in the Balkan wars of the 1990s, they let the U.S. Air Force 


 go first.



 Now to the upside. The U.S. may have spent piles of chips 


 foolishly, but it is still the richest player at the global 


 gaming table. In the Bush years, the U.S. may have squandered 


 tons of political capital, but then the rest of the world is 


 not exactly making up for the shortfall.



 Nor has the U.S. become a ''dispensable nation.'' That is 


 the most remarkable truth in these trying times. Its enemies 


 from al Qaeda to Iran--and its rivals from Russia to China--


 can disrupt and defy, but they cannot build and lead.



 For all the damage to Washington's reputation, nothing of 


 great import can be achieved without, let alone against, the 


 U.S. Can Moscow and Beijing bring peace to Palestine? Or mend 


 a global financial system battered by the subprime crisis? 


 Where are the central banks of Russia and China?



 The Bush presidency will soon be on the way out, but 


 America is not. This truth has recently begun to sink in 


 among the major Democratic contenders. Listen to Hillary 


 Clinton, who would leave ''residual forces'' to fight 


 terrorism. Or to Barack Obama, who would stay in Iraq with an 


 as-yet-unspecified force. Even the most leftish of them all, 


 John Edwards, would keep troops around to stop genocide in 


 Iraq or to prevent violence from spilling over into the 


 neighborhood. And no wonder, for it might be one of them who 


 will have to deal with the bitter aftermath if the U.S. 


 slinks out of Iraq.



 These realists have it right. Withdrawal cannot serve 


 America's interests on the day after tomorrow. Friends and 


 foes will ask: If this superpower doesn't care about the 


 world's central and most dangerous stage--what will it care 


 about?



 America's allies will look for insurance elsewhere. And the 


 others will muse: If the police won't stay in this most 


 critical of neighborhoods, why not break a few windows, or 


 just take over? The U.S. as ''Gulliver Unbound'' may have 


 stumbled during its ''unipolar'' moment. But as giant with 


 feet of clay, it will do worse: and so will the rest of the 


 world.


I think that says it pretty well from a German journalist about our 
commitment in Iraq, what the stakes are, what will happen if we are to, 
as our Democratic colleague said, precipitously withdraw from Iraq.

We all want our troops home. I want my nephew home, but not until it 
is in our national interest for us to draw down troops on the timeline 
that secures our liberty and protects our people and our place in the 
world. And that is what is at stake.

I want to yield to the distinguished gentlewoman from Virginia (Mrs. 
Drake), a member of the Armed Services Committee.