---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `1d56b44b05f5b6b1a5332382c098ff9c`
`Ms. HARMAN — 25 February 2010`

---


Ms. HARMAN. I thank the chairman for yielding, and surely hope that 
we will accept his amendment. I recall during my years as ranking 
member on the committee when we were, in quotes, ''briefed'' on this 
incident. I am very disappointed about the way it was handled. I 
personally think the gentleman from Michigan is correct, and I applaud 
what he is doing.

As we debate this bill, we must thank again the thousands of 
patriotic and courageous women and men who are serving in our 
intelligence community around the world. As I so often say, a grateful 
Nation salutes them for their efforts to keep us safe. Our Nation also 
remembers and honors those who lost their lives, most recently at 
Forward Operating Base Chapman in Afghanistan.

Madam Chair, in addition to this excellent amendment, I applaud the 
underlying bill's provisions to reform the way Congress is notified of 
sensitive covert programs, briefings that for too long were limited to 
the so-called ''Gang of Eight.'' During my years as ranking member, it 
was clear that effective oversight required providing the entire 
committee with information previously limited to its leadership. And so 
this bill rightly provides for full committee notice of Gang of Eight 
briefings, a contemporaneous record of those briefings, something we 
sorely lacked, and it entitles the full committee to receive the same 
briefings as the Gang of Eight within 180 days.

These changes go a long way toward correcting the frustration felt on 
both sides of the aisle during my tenure on the committee. We should 
not have been put in the position of on the one hand upholding our oath 
of secrecy, while on the other hand being starved for information to 
conduct necessary oversight.

Just last week, pursuant to a FOIA request, memoranda describing some 
of our briefings were declassified. The documents, which are available 
to the public, show repeated pushback from Intelligence Committee 
members, surely including me, about the failure to brief us or to 
provide documents or other timely information.

Madam Chair, last time I checked, Congress was an independent branch 
of government. We must assert our prerogative to monitor and rectify 
problems that surface in the programs we oversee. In the intelligence 
world, some of these problems affect our core values as well as our 
Constitution. Security and liberty are not a zero sum game. It is our 
sworn duty to protect both. The language in the underlying bill and 
this amendment offered by Mr. Hoekstra go a long way to rectify long-
existing problems.

I urge support for the bill and support for this amendment.