---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2009
## `1d5fd62e692f2a6f97edf78cad4725f6`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I think I will begin where my friend 
from California just left off, and that's with the Guantanamo issue, 
which I think has been blown way out of proportion because in the 
amendment that is proposed as part of this rule, none of the funds made 
available in this or any prior act may be used to release an individual 
who is detained as of April 30, 2009, at the Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba, into the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, or the 
District of Columbia. It goes on to say that the President shall submit 
to the Congress in writing a comprehensive plan regarding the proposed 
disposition of each individual who is detained as of April 30, 2009, at 
Guantanamo Bay.

So this amendment provides precisely what they're concerned about. So 
their complaint is one that completely baffles me, and all the rhetoric 
and the histrionics attached to it as the potential for terrorists 
running amok in the streets simply is not accurate under this amendment 
or this supplement.

But the real purpose of the supplemental appropriation deals with 
several other things. Let's begin with wildfire suppression, making 
sure that firefighters can receive different kinds of grants for 
rehiring and personnel purposes; border enforcement, there's additional 
funding so that the border enforcement along the Mexican border is 
beefed up, as it was within the stimulus bill. There's additional 
funding for narcotics trafficking. We deal with the influenza as part 
of this supplemental, farming.

But then the most important and the real key to this supplemental 
deals with our troops. And it begins with allowing additional funds for 
stop-loss so that those people who have had to stay in the military 
beyond their original tours of duty get an additional $500 a month. 
There is a potential pay increase, and there is funding for warriors in 
transition. We had the terrible incident a few days ago of one of our 
troops killing a number of others because of the stress that comes from 
these war zones. So there's additional funding for that. Then, of 
course, the additional funding for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
We require reports as to how things are proceeding


towards the President's withdrawal date of August 31, 2010, from Iraq 
as well as requiring reports as to reconciliation and political 
consensus in Afghanistan.

I urge that my friends and my colleagues here in the Congress vote 
''yes'' on the previous question and vote ''yes'' on the rule.




Amendment to H. Res. 434 Offered by Mr. Dreier of California




 Strike ''printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 


 accompanying this resolution'' and insert ''printed in the 


 Congressional Record on May 12, 2009 and numbered 2''.