# RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AS AN  INDEPENDENT MILITARY SERVICE
## `1d661fb3c5dbc39e61eae00e455ff0df`
`Mr. TERRY — 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. TERRY. Mr. Speaker, I want to express my support for this 
resolution recognizing the 60th Anniversary of the U.S. Air Force as an 
independent military service.

Offutt Air Force Base is home to the 55th Wing, the Fightin' Fifty-
Fifth. Offutt's diverse missions and global responsibilities put it on 
the cutting edge of the new U.S. Air Force. There are approximately 
12,000 military and Federal employees representing all branches of the 
military that serve on or near Offutt AFB, which is located near the 
Missouri River just south of Omaha and is a major presence in my 
congressional district.

Offut is also the home of STRATCOM, the global integrated force that 
is charged with the missions of space operations; information 
operations; integrated missile defense; global command and control; 
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; global strike; and 
strategic deterrence.

Mr. Speaker, the Fifty-Fifth Wing operates a variety of aircraft to 
conduct operations from Offutt AFB, Nebraska; Kadena AB, Japan; RAF 
Mildenhall, United Kingdom; Souda Bay Naval Support Activity, Crete; 
and other locations around the world. It is the largest wing in Air 
Combat Command and the second largest in the Air Force.

Air Combat Command is the principal provider of combat airpower that 
supports America's global national security strategy. It operates 
fighter, bomber, reconnaissance, battle-management and electronic-
combat aircraft. It also provides command, control, communications, 
intelligence systems, and information operations in support of the war 
on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, as the U.S. Air Force celebrates its 60th Anniversary, I 
want to join my colleagues in recognizing the many contributions it has 
made to the defense of our Nation.