# None
## `1d78c98bc25116086319e7e70ec9796d`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 1 April 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H. Res. 1061,''Observing the 40th anniversary of the assassination 
of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and encouraging the people of the United 
States to pause and remember the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr. and for other purposes,'' introduced by my distinguished 
colleague from Georgia, Representative John Lewis. This praiseworthy 
legislation will commemorate the 40th anniversary of Dr. King's 
assassination by expanding his legacy and honoring his paradigm of 
nonviolence, courage, compassion, dignity, and public service.

 On April 4, 1968, Martin Luther King, Jr. was assassinated while on 
the balcony of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee. In remembering 
the 40th anniversary of Dr. King's assassination, we should take a 
moment to reflect upon the purpose for which Dr. King and other civil 
rights pioneers so resiliently fought. Through his philosophical words 
and fortified stance against racial injustice, Dr. King provided a road 
map for all to unite and share in the prosperity of this great 
democracy. While we acknowledge that our Nation has come a long way, 
Dr. King's dream has yet to be realized in its entirety. Martin Luther 
King's contributions to our history place him in this unparalleled 
position. It is Dr. King who represents the best in all of us and it is 
in his memory that we continue to devote ourselves to his vision.

 In his short life, Martin Luther King was instrumental in helping us 
realize and rectify those unspeakable wrongs which tarnished the name 
of America. African Americans needed a Martin Luther King, but above 
all, America needed him. The significant qualities of this special man 
cannot be underestimated nor taken for granted. Within a span of 13 
years, from 1955 to his death in 1968, he was able to expound, expose, 
and extricate America from many wrongs. Dr. King's inspiring words 
filled a great void in our nation, and answered our collective longing 
to become a country that truly lived by its dignified principles. And 
so we memorialize this man of action, who put his life on the line for 
freedom and justice every day.

 Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King's ''I Have a Dream'' Speech, 
delivered on August 28, 1963, was a clarion call to each citizen of 
this great Nation that we still hear today. His request was simply and 
eloquently conveyed--he challenged America to live up to the true 
meaning of its creed, to make real the words written in its Declaration 
of Independence and to have a place in this Nation's Bill of Rights. It 
is with this goal in mind that we strive to provide equal opportunity 
to all.

 Dr. King spoke about his contentment with the end of his mortal life 
in his last speech, ''I've Been to the Mountaintop,'' on April 3, 1968 
at Mason Temple. Even then he lifted up the value of service as the 
hallmark of a full life and reiterated the importance of continuing the 
struggle for human rights. ''We've got some difficult days ahead. But 
it doesn't matter with me now because I've been to the mountaintop.'' 
We must continue to pay homage to the valor of a man who endured 
harassment, embarrassment, beatings, and bombings. We commemorate the 
man who went to jail 29 times to achieve freedom for others, and who 
knew he would pay the ultimate price for his leadership, but kept on 
marching and protesting and organizing anyway. Dr. King's vision of 
equality under the law should never lose its vigor despite times of 
unevenness in our equality. For without that vision--without that 
dream--we can never continue to improve on the human condition.


 During these difficult days when the United States is bogged down in 
a misguided and mismanaged war in Iraq, which has claimed the lives of 
over 4,000 men and women, we should also remember that the Rev. Dr. 
Martin Luther King, Jr. was, above all, a person who was always willing 
to speak truth to power. There is perhaps no better example of Dr. 
King's moral integrity and consistency than his criticism of the 
Vietnam War being waged by the Johnson Administration, an 
administration that was otherwise a friend and champion of civil and 
human rights. He stated, ''We are adding cynicism to the process of 
death, for they must know after a short period there that none of the 
things we claim to be fighting for are really involved.''

 Dr. King was taken from us too soon at the tender age of 39 years 
old. Many people remember that Dr. King died in Memphis, but few 
remember why he was there. On that fateful day, the 4th day of April in 
1968, Dr. King came to Memphis to lead a strike by the city's 
sanitation workers.

 The death of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., will never 
overshadow his life. He was both a dreamer and a man of action. Forty 
years after his death, Dr. King continues to teach us all. He leaves a 
legacy of hope, tempered with peace; although, it is a vision not yet 
fulfilled.

 Mr. Speaker, words cannot convey or adequately repay the debt that 
is owed. We cannot sufficiently articulate the feelings of sorrow that 
are still universally felt; however, we can pay Dr. King and other 
civil rights pioneers no greater tribute than to carry on the work they 
believed in and paid the ultimate sacrifice for. The contributions that 
Dr. King provided are priceless and will never be forgotten. As we 
recognize the 40th Anniversary of the slaying of a martyr, let us 
remember to commemorate his vision, remember his message, and 
rededicate ourselves to his goal of a free and just United States. I 
hope every person here rededicates his or her life to fulfilling his 
legacy--that all of us here highly resolve that Dr. King's dream never 
dies but becomes a living reality for all the children of this great 
nation and the world.

 I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
important legislation, and, in-so-doing, giving Dr. King the respect 
that he so greatly deserves.