# None
## `1d8c4d0312482b8c8c2ab488bb18929d`
`Mr. BROWN — 31 July 2007`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, the Children's Health Insurance Program is 
a success story. It was created in 1996 during my second term in the 
House of Representatives under a Republican-controlled Congress and 
signed into law by President Clinton. It was exactly what voters sent 
people to Washington to do. It was bipartisan, with a Democratic 
President working with a Republican Congress, with wide support within 
Congress from large numbers of both Democrats and Republicans.

Since then, the program has reduced the number of uninsured children 
in working families by one-third; 6.6 million children are covered 
nationally. More than 218,000 children are covered in my State of Ohio, 
from Galion to Gallipolis, from Mansfield to Middletown, from Xenia to 
Zanesville. These children now get care in their doctors' offices but 
not, as the President suggests, in the emergency rooms. Their care is 
delivered when it is needed, not when it is too late. They go to their 
family physician with an ear infection, and they get an antibiotic that 
may cost $50 or $75 or $100. The child gets sent home with his or her 
mother or father, and the child is cured instead of the ear ache 
getting so bad for a child whose parent has no insurance, and the 
parent waiting and hoping it gets better. The child goes to the 
emergency room at the cost of several hundred dollars, and the child 
may have a permanent hearing loss as a result, with what that does to 
the child's future in school and to the child's future later in getting 
a job.

These children under the CHIP program have good, reliable health 
coverage. The Children's Health Insurance Program, in short, works. It 
works for our Ohio children, our Ohio parents, and for Ohio 
communities. But it does not work as well as it could.

Today we have the opportunity to make the Children's Health Insurance 
Program what it should be. Sadly, we all know millions of American 
children--far too many children in Dayton and Columbus and Toledo and 
Cleveland and Akron and Canton and Youngstown and Cincinnati--remain 
without health insurance, even though the law states they are eligible 
for it.

Eleven years ago, in 1996, Congress made a promise to America's 
children. Right now, today, this week, in the Senate and in the House, 
we have the opportunity to live up to that promise. We can pass this 
bill to provide health insurance to 3.2 million more children, children 
who have missed out on our promise--not their fault, ours--so far.

This is a bipartisan effort and bill, just like the original was a 
decade ago. That is because this legislation is about children, not 
politics. This bill is about helping children.

Let me tell a story about how the Children's Health Insurance Program 
has helped one family in Ohio. Seth Novak is a 3-year-old boy who lives 
in Lebanon, OH, in Warren County, outside Cincinnati, the southwestern 
part of the State. This is a picture of Seth. His dad is self-employed. 
He helps churches with their construction projects.

The family buys private health insurance for $444 a month that covers 
the parents and Seth's two older siblings. But Seth has Down Syndrome 
and other health problems. In addition, in an attempt to get health 
insurance for her son, Seth's mom checked with six different insurance 
companies. She was quoted rates from $1,200 to $1,800 per month for 
private insurance--just for Seth, not for Mr. and Mrs. Novak or the two 
older children.

The Novaks are a hard-working family, but they simply cannot afford 
$14,400 a year for a policy covering only one of their children, not to 
mention their own insurance, another $444. They cannot afford a policy 
of $14,000 a year for one of their children, which would cover only 
part of the cost, frankly, for only some of the care Seth needs.

Just this week, the Novak family learned that Seth's eligibility for 
Medicaid/SCHIP has been denied effective August 31. That is why we have 
work to do. Where will Seth go for medical care? What if something 
happens?

There is hope for Seth, though. In Ohio, Governor Strickland and 
legislative leadership--again, in Ohio, it is a bipartisan effort--by 
increasing eligibility for the Children's Health Insurance Program to 
children up to 300 percent of the Federal poverty level. As Assistant 
Majority Leader Durbin pointed out about an hour and a half ago, these 
are not people living in the lap of luxury when you say 300 percent of 
the poverty level. These are middle-class families with significant 
health problems, who simply cannot afford, on their middle-class 
salaries and wages, their health insurance.

In January, the legislature and the Governor, understanding the 
plight that families like Seth's find themselves in, when the new 
eligibility for the program goes into effect, the Novaks of Lebanon, 
OH, will be able to restore his health insurance and still pay their 
bills and take care of their family.


Ohio's leaders have taken care of Seth and thousands like him. They 
need Congress and the President this week to do the same.

I have a picture of another Ohio family--a success story--who can 
attest to how the Children's Health Insurance Program helped them. This 
is Latonya Shoulders of Kent, OH, and her son Phillip Grant, Jr.

In 1996, Latonya was a pregnant, full-time student at Kent State 
University, my wife's alma mater. She didn't have health insurance or 
the resources to afford medical care. She enrolled in Ohio's Medicaid 
Program about halfway through her pregnancy. Her son had Medicaid/SCHIP 
coverage until he


was 5 years old. That is when she finished her bachelor's degree and 
got a job as a nurse with insurance benefits.

The Children's Health Insurance Program was there for Phillip in the 
first years of his life. The program provided for him in several 
medical emergencies. At 2 years old, he was bitten by another child at 
daycare and developed acute cellulitis. He spent 2 days in the 
hospital. When he was about 4, he cut his arm and had a recurrence of 
cellulitis. This required two surgeries, both inpatient and outpatient 
treatment.

As any parent knows, raising children means all too many visits to 
the hospital. These hospital stays could have devastated this family's 
finances and so much that went with it, right when Latonya was working 
so hard to get her nursing degree and to get ahead. Latonya is proud 
that she no longer needs Medicaid/Children's Health Insurance Program 
coverage for her son.

As I said, she is now a nurse and has health insurance. The program 
helped Latonya when she and Phillip needed it. Today she is a 
productive taxpaying citizen, and he is a healthy boy. The goal now is 
to let other families experience the same benefit.

President Bush came to Cleveland recently--about 25, 20 miles from my 
home--and told an audience of Ohioans:




 People have access to health care in America. After all, 


 you just go to an emergency room.


The President doesn't seem to realize that is exactly the problem. We 
all know emergency care is much more expensive than a scheduled visit 
to a doctor or a clinic. When people go to emergency rooms and 
hospitals, they end up with large costs which insurance companies bear 
and then raise their premiums, or the hospital eats the cost. It is a 
huge burden on hospitals, especially hospitals in places such as rural 
Appalachia, in southeast Ohio, and places such as Zanesville and Morgan 
County and Athens and Gallia County and Lawrence County. It is a burden 
on hospitals such as Metro in Cleveland, which serves our community so 
well, or Akron General or the Summa or Lorain's community health 
center. These hard-working families cannot afford health insurance for 
children, much less if the child has a serious health issue.

I want to make sure children like Seth Novak and Phillip Grant 
receive the care they need. This is a picture of Seth playing on a 
slide. I want him to be strong and healthy so he can continue playing 
and getting his exercise and enjoying his childhood, with health 
insurance; or this picture of Phillip with his mother at her 
graduation. I want him to grow up healthy so he can pursue a bachelor's 
degree just like his mom did. I want every child in Ohio to thrive and 
develop to his or her full potential.

Ohio families should be able to take care of their bills without 
worrying about whether they will get their most basic health care needs 
met. Every eligible child should be able to benefit from the Children's 
Health Insurance Program--every eligible child in this country. That 
requires the additional $35 billion that this bill authorizes. That is 
about how many weeks in Iraq? We spend $2.5 billion a week in Iraq, and 
here we are asking for $35 billion over 5 years. That requires that 
additional $35 billion.

I want our President to see past relying on emergency rooms, thinking 
that is the best option to provide the basic medical care that our low-
income families need, and instead, to provide it through an insurance 
program so a mother can take her child to a family practitioner and get 
the kind of preventive care that my friend from Oklahoma, Senator 
Coburn, talked about. Even though he doesn't agree with this 
legislation, he talked about getting the care that these children need 
that only health insurance--not emergency room treatment--will get 
them.

This bill is about children, not about politics. It needs to pass.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.