---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `1d93a81c968fd345d6e844adcc0493b8`
`Mr. HARKIN — 22 October 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. I thank the Senator from North Dakota for always being on 
the side of American workers and American jobs. I assure him he will 
have my support on the amendment. We do not have it cleared yet. We may 
have to have a vote on it. But if that is so, perhaps that could be one 
of the votes we have tonight, if we don't get an agreement on it.















 Amendment No. 3369


I wish to take the time--we will be voting at 5:30. As I said, we 
will be voting on the first one, which will be the Allard amendment, 
amendment No. 3369. I thought I would take a few minutes to talk about 
the amendment.

It sounds simple. You cut funds for programs that the Bush 
administration has concluded are ineffective, using what is called the 
Program Assessment Rating Tool--PART--then use these savings to reduce 
the debt. We are all for making sure taxpayers' dollars are spent well 
and responsibly, but let's take a look at what this amendment really 
means.

First, we have to have some background on PART, the Program 
Assessment Rating Tool. It is intended to help assess the management 
and performance of individual programs. So it is not just a question of 
whether the program works, it also evaluates whether Congress has 
designed the program in a clear manner and whether Federal agencies do 
a good job managing the program. So programs evaluated under PART fall 
into one of five categories: They are effective, moderately effective, 
adequate, ineffective or results not determined.

The last category means there was not enough information about it to 
make a decision.

The Senator from Colorado, Mr. Allard, would only cut programs that 
are rated ineffective and take that money and apply it to the deficit. 
It sounds good. Why should you ever support an ineffective program?

First of all, let's take a look at what PART means. What is PART and 
how is it used? This is what the President's own budget documents say 
about PART:




 Ratings do not result in automatic decisions about funding.



 Clearly, over time, funding should be targeted to programs 


 that can prove they achieve measurable results. In some 


 cases, a PART rating of ''ineffective'' or ''results not 


 demonstrated'' may suggest that greater funding is necessary 


 to overcome identified shortcomings, while a funding decrease 


 may be proposed for a program rated ''effective'' if it is 


 not a priority or has completed its mission.


This is the President's budget. I say: Read it. It says: Sometimes if 
you have an ''ineffective'' rating, maybe you ought to have greater 
funding for it to overcome some shortcomings, rather than if you have 
an effective program that may be getting funded, maybe it should be 
done away with because either it is not a priority or has completed its 
mission.

In other words, the amendment offered by the Senator from Colorado, 
Mr. Allard, is counter to the idea behind creating the PART process. It 
was not intended as a club on an ''ineffective'' program, or it was 
designed to assess the impact of programs, identify steps that could be 
taken to improve them.

Now, that is not my only problem with this misguided amendment. I am 
concerned about the important programs Americans need that would be 
undermined by his amendment. Make no mistake about it, a vote for 
Senator Allard is a vote against the programs you see listed on this 
second chart. A vote for Senator Allard's amendment says we should undo 
the fiscal mess created by the Bush administration policy of tax cuts 
for the millionaires and the war in Iraq by reducing funding for 
programs that help some students prepare for college, provide 
unemployed low-income seniors with income, retrain workers who lose 
their jobs due to foreign trade.

Now, here are some of the programs that would lose 10 percent of the 
funding in the bill if the Allard amendment were adopted. The TRIO 
Upward Bound Program is funded at $315 million in


the Senate bill. There are 900 sites throughout the country, including 
8 sites and over 700 students in the State of Colorado, I say to the 
occupant of the chair.

Here is what the Bush budget had to say about this program. This is a 
quote from the Bush budget:




 The program received an ineffective PART rating when 


 assessed in 2002, in part, because the program evaluation 


 showed that the program did not overall increase the 


 proportion of participants who enrolled in college. However, 


 the program was found to have a positive impact for higher 


 risk students for whom the evaluation findings revealed that 


 Upward Bound increased 4-year college enrollment rates. In 


 response to this finding, the Department of Education 


 established a priority for the 2006 competition that required 


 projects to ensure that at least 30 percent of participants 


 were higher risk students. Given the improved targeting, 


 continued funding is warranted.


In other words--I better watch myself, I am saying nice things about 
the administration--basically what they did is they actually 
implemented the PART program correctly. They looked at it, they said, 
okay, it got an ineffective rating. Why? Well, because, they said, 
overall it did not show that it increased 4-year college participation.

But when they looked at the subset of the higher risk students, they 
said: It increased the college participation. So here is what we will 
do. We will require projects to ensure that at least 30 percent of the 
participants are higher risk students. That is how you use this tool. 
You do not use it as a club to get rid of it, I say to my friend from 
Colorado.

The President's own budget says the program is worthwhile. Look at 
the Perkins Career and Technical Education State Grants. It is funded 
at $1.2 billion. That is last year's level. We did not increase it. 
Last year, the Congress reauthorized and strengthened the program, and 
the Senate passed it by unanimous consent. In the House of 
Representatives there was only one vote against it. Here is what the 
Bush budget said:




 The Perkins Act incorporates several important changes that 


 strengthen the program's accountability provisions and 


 provides opportunities to improve the program's performance.


Then there is the Community Service Employment for Older Americans. 
We had funded it at last year's level. This provides part-time 
community service opportunities paid at minimum wage for unemployed 
low-income persons.

The Health Professions Program: Now, this is interesting. We put in 
$357 million this year. The Allard amendment would cut it by $35.7 
million. This is the category that includes almost all health training 
in America: nurse training programs, training in primary care medicine, 
dentistry programs. All of these would take a cut.

Then there is trade adjustment assistance: $888.7 million in this 
bill, last year's level, same thing the President requested. Again, 
this provides income support and retraining services to workers who 
lose their jobs due to foreign trade. Approximately 120,000 Americans 
are eligible each year, but only about 80,000 actually receive 
services.

Again, if we adopt the Allard amendment for the TRIO program at an 
average cost of $5,000 a student, we would cut 6,300 students out of 
the TRIO program.

For trade adjustment assistance, at about $12,000 per person, that 
means a loss of services to 7,400 workers who have lost their jobs and 
want to get retrained.

For the Community Service Employment Program, $5,932 for older 
workers--a modest amount every year to an older person--means a loss of 
support for 8,142 low-income seniors.

The Allard amendment on its face, you look at it and say: Well, he is 
cutting 10 percent from those programs rated ineffective. So you want 
to think: Well, gee, why would I support an ineffective program? No one 
wants to support ineffective programs. But, again, I refer to the first 
chart. I repeat again, you have to understand what PART is; that is, 
the Program Assessment Rating Tool, and how it is used. I will read 
again from the President's own budget.




 PART ratings do not result in automatic decisions about 


 funding.


Well, the Allard amendment would be an automatic decision about 
cutting 10 percent. Clearly, over time, funding should be targeted at 
programs that can prove they achieve measurable results. I say to my 
friend from Colorado, it says:




 In some cases, a PART rating of ''ineffective'' or 


 ''results not demonstrated'' may suggest that greater funding 


 is necessary in order to overcome identified shortcomings, 


 while a funding decrease may be proposed for a program rated 


 ''effective'' if it is not a priority or has completed its 


 mission.


So there may be effective programs that are rated as ''effective'' 
that probably ought to be cut. I am sure the administration and OMB are 
probably doing that, because they have either completed their mission 
or it is not a priority.

On the other hand, there may be some of those rated ''ineffective'' 
as mentioned in the TRIO program, rated as ineffective. When they 
looked at the overall score, they said: Well, it is effective if you 
look at higher risk students. So they carved it out and said: Thirty 
percent has to go to higher risk students. Then they requested the 
continued funding for it.

I say to my friend from Colorado, I understand his desire. Everybody 
wants to cut down on something that is ineffective. But I do think that 
if the Senator were to read and understand completely what that Program 
Assessment Rating Tool does, he might agree with the President's own 
words on his budget.

I yield the floor.