---
---

# None
## `1dac668441a7ba7ce19dd6c3d27e63f3`
`Ms. VELAZQUEZ — 24 January 2007`

---


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I come before this House of 
Representatives, and I would like to speak not only on behalf of the 4 
million American citizens who live in Puerto Rico, but also on behalf 
of the seven American Puerto Ricans who lost their lives in Iraq 
fighting to protect our Nation.

Today I rise to remove the muzzle from the mouths in support of the 
close to 5 million U.S. citizens' voices that are represented by the 
Delegates of the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and the 
Resident Commissioner of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. I say voices 
because that is all their representatives in Congress are allowed to 
utter at the well of this House of Representatives. It is time to allow 
them to also act on behalf of their constituents in this Chamber by 
allowing them to vote in the Committee of the Whole House.

Right now these Members are allowed to fully participate, not only 
debate, but also vote at the committees on which they serve with 
distinction. The change proposed is very measured. It simply allows our 
respected friends and colleagues to vote in an additional committee, 
the Committee of the Whole House.

Why are my colleagues from the other side of the aisle so unwilling 
to allow them in this committee? They do not seem to mind them in the 
other committees. Madam Speaker, my Republican colleagues have even 
placed the Republican Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico in several 
committees, including Foreign Affairs.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle claim that this rule may 
have constitutional problems. The reality is that the courts don't 
agree with this. I will tell my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle, you cannot pick and choose which court decisions you agree with 
or you like. That is not how democracy works.

But as you all know, the Committee of the Whole House does not vote 
on final passage of legislation. It carries out similar work as the 
standing committees.

The only thing this new rule does allow is for our Delegates and 
Resident Commissioner colleagues to vote in a committee. The difference 
for their constituents is that this committee is not located in a small 
room, but meets here in this Chamber for all to watch.

Today's debate is about whether this House believes it is right to 
give these Members the opportunity to express their positions and 
values through the act of voting out in the open. Openness is a strong 
democratic value that all of us should support.

I want to emphasize this. These men and women are Members of this 
House. Let us help them express the voices of their U.S. citizen 
constituents by allowing them to vote in this committee as well.