---
---

# HONORING THE 3RD BATTALION, 320TH FIELD ARTILLERY REGIMENT
## `1db36b1574f7673ca5ded13b7e97b1c2`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I would like to take a brief moment 
to recognize the men and women of the 3rd Battalion, 320th Field 
Artillery Regiment and its subordinate units. The battalion has been 
assigned to Fort Campbell since 1986. Since then, it has been deployed 
in support of various military operations around the world--including 
its current mission in support of the global war on terror.

In November, the members of the 3rd Battalion, 320th Field Artillery 
will return home to Fort Campbell, to their


eager families and to a grateful Nation after 15 long months in Iraq. 
During their deployment, these brave Americans fought our enemies in 
one of the most dangerous sectors of southern Baghdad. They also spent 
months training their Iraqi Army counterparts so that one day Iraq may 
be able to enjoy the same security we have here at home.

Freedom is something many of us take for granted. Not so for the 
members of the 3rd Battalion, 320th Field Artillery, who have defended 
freedom by enduring great hardship. The same is true of their families, 
who have also sacrificed for freedom with sleepless nights and fear for 
the safety of their loved ones. As Americans, we are forever indebted 
to those in the military community who have given so much to protect 
our liberty and our way of life. I ask my colleagues to join me in 
thanking the men and women of the 3rd Battalion, 320th Field Artillery 
for their heroic service and in welcoming them back home.

I also ask unanimous consent to have the names of these brave 
Americans printed in the Record.