---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `1dc17563b66591b8bbbb3371ab4c7b89`
`Mr. CORNYN — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I join my colleagues in decrying the tone 
of modern politics where there are all too many personal attacks. But 
what they fail to recognize is those who volunteer to put ourselves up 
for public office, to run for public office, we know what we are going 
to be subjected to in the back and forth of a political campaign. What 
this amendment seeks to do, what the Boxer amendment seeks to do, is to 
change the subject. The subject is this ad. The subject of my amendment 
is this ad put in the New York Times on September 9, 2007, attacking a 
four-star general wearing the uniform of the U.S. Army, the Commander 
of the Multi-National Forces in Iraq--not only this individual, but 
everyone under his command, 170,000, approximately, members of the U.S. 
military.

What does it accuse him of? Cooking the books for the White House. 
The ad asks: Is it General Petraeus or General Betray Us? My friends on 
the other side of the aisle want to change the subject. They do not 
want to confront organizations such as MoveOn.org, which have the right 
to express their view thanks to the first amendment of the 
Constitution, thanks to people like General Petraeus and the brave men 
and women of the U.S. military who protect moveOn.Org's right to have 
its say. But we ought to have our say, too, and to condemn, in the 
strongest possible words and by our actions, this kind of irresponsible 
ad. It is clear, according to the New York Times Magazine of September 
9, this was a part of an orchestrated effort, both on the Hill and off 
the Hill, to disparage this general before he even had a chance to make 
his report to the Congress.

The Boxer amendment, with all due respect, is an effort to change the 
subject, is a smokescreen to try to distract colleagues on the floor 
from holding MoveOn.org and those who would slander and by character 
assassination attack the reputation of leaders of the U.S. military who 
are doing nothing more than their duty and what the Commander in Chief 
and this Congress asks them to do. This is an attempt to excuse this 
kind of conduct by trying to change the subject. I would urge my 
colleagues to reject it.

Frankly, if colleagues are going to vote against my amendment, it 
will be tantamount to saying this kind of character assassination is 
okay. It is my hope that on a bipartisan basis we would rise up and we 
would say it is not okay, it is unacceptable.

If, in fact, there are colleagues who think the amendment offered by 
my distinguished colleague from California is going to be a fig leaf, 
well, I tell you, it is not big enough, as most fig leaves are, to 
cover up the shame that will be on this body if we see colleagues vote 
against--basically vote for this kind of irresponsible ad.

There is a difference in kind, and I hope colleagues would, on calm 
reflection, recognize the differences between those of us who run for 
public office and hold public office, and while we may all decry the 
kinds of personal attacks that have become all too common in political 
campaigns, it is a difference in kind for MoveOn.org and those who 
support them to make personal attacks against a four star general in 
the U.S. military commanding 170,000 American military servicemembers 
in a war zone in Iraq.

It is my hope that colleagues would vote unanimously for the 
amendment which I have offered and reject the Boxer amendment as an 
attempt to change the subject and obscure the fact that this shameful 
ad is out there without the disapproval, so far, of this body.

I think we all recognize that political campaigns are different. We 
do not necessarily like them, but we are all volunteers, and we 
volunteer to subject ourselves, unfortunately, to the tone of modern 
political campaigns today. I wish we could change it, and if there was 
a way to do so, I would support that effort. But I do not support the 
Boxer amendment because it fails to recognize the key distinction 
between those who are public figures by choice and those who are public 
figures by duty, people such as General Petraeus. It is a shame that we 
have not been able to get a vote yet on this amendment, but I am glad 
we will here in the next few minutes. I encourage my colleagues to vote 
in favor of my amendment on this character assassination against this 
good man and to vote against the Boxer amendment for the reasons I 
mentioned.

I reserve the remainder of my time.