# THE BLUE DOG COALITION
## `1dcddcedaa1732a5234123196d789123`
`Mr. BOYD of Florida — 16 January 2007`

---


Mr. BOYD of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my friend Mr. Ross 
from Arkansas for leading this discussion.

Mr. Speaker, for 10 years now I have been in the Congress, and for 
all of those years, and specifically the last 6 years, the Blue Dogs 
have been taking to this very floor almost on a weekly basis to discuss 
this issue of deficit spending. For those last 6 years, the Blue Dogs, 
as Democrats, have been in the minority party and able to do little 
about the deficit spending in terms of the final legislation that was 
passed. But things have changed now, Mr. Speaker, and I am not sure 
that the country realizes how tough this job is going to be.

We have created a horrible fiscal mess over the last 6 years, which 
has been described by my friend from Arkansas, Mr. Ross, with the 
deficit spending. Many of the decisions that have been made on this 
House floor and in the Senate in the last 6 years it seems like were 
without regard to the long-term economic health of the country and 
deficit spending.

So I think the task before us is a task that is going to be very, 
very difficult, and it is going to affect all aspects of what we do 
here in the next few months as we begin to try to develop a budget and 
then a spending plan, an appropriations plan, for how this country will 
organize itself and perform the functions that should be performed as a 
government.

We know what those are: National security, transportation, education, 
environmental protection. We have a farm bill coming up that has to be 
reauthorized this coming year. All of those items are going to run 
right head on into the red ink that has been displayed here and talked 
about by Mr. Ross.

There are going to have to be some very, very tough decisions made. 
It is not going to be easy. There is going to be a lot of sacrifice on 
the part of the American people, just like we did in the nineties when 
we found ourselves in a similar situation. So, I just want to tell the 
American people, viewers, our listeners tonight, that it is going to be 
tough and it is not going to be easy.

The first thing we need to do, obviously, as Mr. Ross talked about, 
is make sure that the dollars that we take from the American people to 
fund the programs that we need are spent wisely and they are accounted 
for and they are not wasted. He has talked a lot about that, 
particularly in terms of the Iraq war situation.

We have to put in place accountability standards. But we also have to 
put in place some tools that we can use to get us into balance in the 
long run. It is not going to be easy. Many of the things that we want 
to do, that we are interested in, such as the farm bill, such as 
education spending, such as environmental protection, that we have 
neglected over the last 3 to 4 years and that we need to deal with are 
going to run directly into conflict with these issues.

So I think it behooves us to remind the American people that it is 
going to be a tough, tough task, but it is one that in terms of the 
long-term health of this country is extremely critical. It is critical 
that we don't spend more than we take in.

I remember when I first came here I attended a press conference with 
some folks who were advocating a balanced budget amendment to the 
Constitution. A Member of this House showed up who I wouldn't have 
expected would have been at such a press conference, because he was 
what we might consider a little bit on the left side of the political 
spectrum. When I asked him later on why he was there, he said, 
''Listen, Allen; unless we get our spending, our deficit spending under 
control, we don't have money to spend on the priorities that I want to 
spend them on, education, environmental protection, health care and 
those issues that make America such a great country.''

So I think that is important to remember and remind our listeners 
that we are spending a huge percentage, maybe in excess of 15 percent, 
of every dollar, every tax dollar that we take in, on interest to 
service the Federal debt that we are carrying, a debt that is 
approaching, as we have been shown here tonight, $9 trillion. We have 
to get that number under control. We have to stop the increase in that 
number.

That is the first step, stop digging, stop making that number bigger. 
Let's figure out how to balance an annual budget. We know we can't do 
that in one or two years. It may take a 5-year plan, a 3-year plan or 
maybe even a 7-year plan. If we get our heads together and work across 
the aisle in a bipartisan way, and we have a divided government now, we 
can do that. We can work together, just like we did in 1997 when we 
stopped the bleeding, so-to-speak.

So, I am here to support my friend from Arkansas, Mr. Ross, in his 
leading of this discussion, and thank him for his leadership on this 
issue, and remind my constituents back home and the American people 
that this is not going to be easy. This is going to come in conflict 
with many of the things that we feel like we need to do as a country. 
But it is critically important for the long-term economic health of 
this country that we do stop this deficit spending, and I am proud to 
be a part of the Blue Dog Coalition, which has advocated this for so 
long.