---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `1dd63c0cefcbf5ce5c1d90ece019dc43`
`Mr. WEBB â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Madam President, I would like to add my support to the 
Senator's amendment. I would state again my appreciation for his 
service to our country and for all the tough stands he has been willing 
to take here over the past few years on these vital issues.

Before I speak on this amendment, I would like to state briefly it is 
my understanding that in a press conference after the vote of this 
morning, when my earlier amendment failed to receive 60 votes, received 
56 votes, there were some comments made by Members of the other party 
about my mentioning that in my amendment all of the ground combat 
veterans in the Senate were cosponsors of my amendment.

In the emotion of the time, apparently it was turned around into an 
assertion that I was trying to make a distinction about quality of 
service, or that people of one type of military background were being 
pitted against another. I say I regret anyone would think that speaking 
affirmatively about service, about service of individuals, was somehow 
speaking negatively about the service of anyone else or about people 
who have not served. I think that it is interesting to point out that 
in the amendment I offered, every ground combat veteran who is in the 
Senate cosponsored it. I am grateful for that. I think that does say 
something about the experiences that people have had in that 
environment, nothing more, nothing less.

With respect to the amendment from the Senator from Nebraska, this 
again is an issue that goes directly to the quality of the environment 
in which people who have stepped forward and served are being offered 
in the U.S. military today. People who step forward to serve do so 
because they love their country. They do so because they have family 
traditions. They do so in many cases because they like to soldier. But 
they do so looking to us, the national leadership, to place their 
service in this right context and to address that service with a period 
of stewardship.

I was stunned earlier this year when the policy was announced that 
those in the Army were going to go to 15-month deployments with only a 
12-month dwell time back here after these deployments. This is the 
Active-Duty people. The normal rotation is 2 for 1 historically. If you 
are gone for a year, you are supposed to have 2 years back. Now we are 
down to less than 1 to 1.

I called the Chief of the Staff of the Army. I asked him about it. I 
said: How do you do this? He just came back from Iraq. How do you do 
this to your own people?

His comment to me: We have to feed the strategy. We don't articulate 
the strategy.

I had to empathize with the situation he was in. That is one of the 
reasons I developed the motivation to try and help the situation by 
addressing it in the Congress. Senator Hagel has very clearly laid out 
the facts, the situation we face; that our troops, in many ways, have 
reached the tipping point, and the final tipping point came when we 
went below this 1-to-1 ratio, which is an absolute minimal floor.

The optimal ratio, as I said on the active side, is 2 to 1. We have a 
failed manpower policy which has placed the well-being and the 
availability of our troops in jeopardy. It is time for us to get to the 
place, after 4 years as an occupying force in Iraq, where the condition 
and the availability of our troops should drive our operational 
policies and not the other way around.

We are seeing the canary in the coal mine with respect to our 
military people. They have been giving more and more as these policies, 
those experimental policies, have gone forward. We are seeing a failing 
retention of experienced middle-grade officers and noncommissioned 
officers. We are seeing an increasing attrition rate against Army 
company-grade officers, the most


graphic example of that being the West Point classes of 2000 and 2001. 
These are the two most recent classes that have finished their 5-year 
obligation.

As of the end of last year, 54 percent of the class of 2000 had left 
the Army. As of the end of last year, 46 percent of the class of 2001 
had already left the Army. This is well above, well above by multiples, 
attrition rates in the previous Iraq environment. The Marines have also 
seen an upward trend from the loss of critical midgrade noncommissioned 
officers.

As Senator Hagel pointed out, we are seeing difficulties in 
recruitment. With respect to the National Guard in Virginia, we have 
seen, since 2001, nearly 6,000 soldiers of the Virginia National Guard, 
and more than 2,000 members of the Air Guard, entering Federal service 
in support of these different operations.

We can be justly proud that all of these people have stepped forward 
to serve. At the same time we need to put a balance into how they are 
being used. As I mentioned a minute ago, that balance will be found in 
shaping our operational policies toward the availability of our troops. 
There is no strategy that should be driving the use of our troops in 
the way they are being used. For that reason, I support the amendment 
and urge my colleagues to do so.

I yield the floor.