---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `1de5f815fe1fc4c60d317cdfbc22319c`
`Mr. McHENRY — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. McHENRY. I thank my colleague from Wisconsin.

Mr. Chairman, this is a landmark day in the House of Representatives; 
and records are being broken. In fact, they are being shattered here on 
the House floor.

Democrats are poised to pass a $392.5 billion tax increase to this 
Federal budget and a spending increase to match it. And, you guessed 
it, it sets the record for our Nation's history, the record of the 
largest tax increase in American history.

Now, they should be proud, because they have outdone themselves from 
their budget in 1993, which was then the largest tax increase in 
American history. One hundred and fifteen million taxpayers will see 
their taxes increase by $1,795; 48 million married couples will see 
their taxes increase by $2,899; 17 million elderly individuals will see 
their taxes increases by $2,270. This isn't chump change for the 
American people. It is real money. It is real money the Democrats 
believe the American people owe them.

And why do Democrats feel entitled to this money? Because it is what 
they do. It is what they do. They tax and they spend. They spend and 
they tax. It is what the Democrat Party here in Washington does. And 
why is that? Well, I think it is because they haven't had a new idea in 
70 years with the advent of the New Deal.

But as a side note, for the American people listening today, Mr. 
Chairman, I think it is very interesting, very striking, the level of 
hypocrisy in this budget. Because it also does something very 
interesting with this budget today. It accepts the President's funding 
levels for the troops in Iraq through 2009.

Well, this is pretty interesting, because just last week the liberal 
majority voted to cut off funds in 2008, right before the general 
election, didn't they? I think this is a high level of hypocrisy out of 
this budget. And what they said last week is ''we are standing against 
the war in Iraq. Get our troops out in 2008.'' What they are saying 
with this budget here today is, ''we will fund it a little longer.'' It 
is a level of hypocrisy here in Washington, D.C., Mr. Chairman, that 
the American people need to know about. They say, forget about last 
week.

This Democrat party is the party of consistent inconsistencies.

Another glaring error is, in their first majority budget in 13 years, 
they don't tackle the entitlement programs. They don't tackle reforming 
entitlement programs to make sure Medicare and Medicaid and Social 
Security can last for generations. We need entitlement reform.

Republicans, when we were in the majority, we had $280 billion worth 
of entitlement savings and reform to preserve Social Security, Medicare 
and Medicaid and all the entitlement programs. But the Democrats ignore 
the looming entitlement crisis.

I think what we have to go back to is this is the tax-and-spend 
party, and we must oppose them. I urge my colleagues to vote against 
this budget.

