---
---

# STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
## `1dedf171480b6bbcb57be7c1909ed942`
`Mr. BOND — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, today I rise to talk about a portion of the 
President's address last night that I think is extremely important. I 
have heard from many of my colleagues in this body and on the talk 
shows that there are serious concerns about the war in Iraq. Primarily, 
they are saying we need to change our strategy; we shouldn't be 
involved in a civil war. We should be involving the Iraqis themselves 
in taking care of the civil war. We ought to be providing more--we 
ought to ensure the Iraqi Government cuts the Sunnis in on the oil 
revenues and makes them full economic partners. We need to bring in the 
friendly neighbors in the region, those countries that want to see a 
peaceful and stable Iraq, and we ought to be following the Baker-
Hamilton report.

As I listened to the President's speech last night, that is precisely 
what he did. This is a new strategy we have in Iraq. We have heard in 
our open Intelligence Committee hearings that now, for the first time, 
we believe Prime Minister al-Maliki and his Sunni and Kurdish fellow 
elected leaders believe they can take over and restore order in that 
country, and they are willing to crack down on the Shia death squads, 
such as Muqtada al-Sadr. We have seen reports of that in the media. 
They report that the neighboring countries are willing now to come in 
and help with reconstruction, provide job opportunities for young 
unemployed men to keep them from becoming insurgents or terrorists, and 
this, they say, is our best chance.

Frankly, for Prime Minister al-Maliki and his government, this is 
probably their last chance. This is an opportunity where al-Maliki 
said: If you will provide some additional support as we go in, get our 
troops up to speed and clear and hold Baghdad, we will take over the 
country.

That is what we need to do to bring a successful conclusion to this 
war and to draw out our military. We are probably going to have our 
military in the region for a long time because, as the President said, 
this is a generational war against radical Islam and the terror they 
bring.

I wanted to just briefly note a comment. Last night we heard that the 
military is against the war. Well, there may be some in the military 
who are against the war, but I can tell my colleagues, I have spent a 
lot of time listening to Missouri soldiers and marines, people who have 
been on the ground. I have gotten reports from them continually. I have 
seen newspaper reports about the people who have come back, the 
soldiers who have come back.

For example, one woman has written a book. She served with the Army's 
101st Airborne. She lost her husband in the war. She says:




 It is hard to stay positive about Iraq because of what you 


 see on the news. But I was able to be there and I know what a 


 difference we are making there.


Others, such as 1SG Stephanie Leonard, was moved to tears, saying 
that they are heroes for helping the Iraqi people. She said:




 It is not a 24-hour war. We want things to be in a hurry. 


 As soon as the Iraqi police are able to secure their own 


 country, that is when the window begins to open.


These are just some of the many comments I have seen in print in 
Missouri and heard people express. They want to see us win. They know 
they are doing the job. They believe the liberal national media has 
painted a very unflattering and untrue picture, and that is why our 
troops think they are not getting a fair shake.

But in that context, in the context of what the President did, let's 
talk about


the resolutions which are being discussed. If the President is on the 
track to respond to all of the ideas about how we ought to change our 
direction in Iraq--and I believe he is--what will the resolutions do?

Well, proponents of the resolutions say they want to support the 
troops, but the resolutions don't do that. Clearly, I believe there is 
an agreement now that we are not going to try to use the congressional 
power of the purse to cut off funding and force an immediate withdrawal 
from Iraq because that would be madness. The Director of National 
Intelligence told our committee:




 Precipitous withdrawal could lead to a collapse of the 


 government of that country and a collapse of their security 


 forces because we simply don't think they are ready to take 


 over, to assume full control of their fiscal 


 responsibilities.


To simply withdraw now would have catastrophic effects, and that is a 
quite widely held view inside of Iraq itself. If we were to cut off 
funds, the CIA Director said it would lead, No. 1, to increased killing 
of Iraqi civilians.

No. 2, the establishment by al-Zawahiri and Osama bin Laden of the 
base of operations for their war to establish a worldwide caliphate 
beginning in the Middle East, taking over the areas of Iraq which would 
be out of control and would bring people in from other countries in a 
possible civil war.

If we remember, that is what happened in Vietnam. When Congress cut 
off the purse, we saw our allies slaughtered in Vietnam, and some 2 to 
2.5 million people in Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam were killed. A 
possible slaughter of people in the Middle East who have supported us 
would ensue.

General Maples, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, told 
our committee 2 weeks ago:





. . . A failure in Iraq would empower the jihadist 


 movement. It would give that base of operations from which 


 the jihadist movement would extend. And it's consistent with 


 the goals of Al Qaida in Iraq to establish that Islamic 


 state, and then to expand it into the caliphate. I also think 


 that there, of course, will be very significant regional 


 impacts both in terms of stability to other countries--


I ask unanimous consent to speak an additional 4 minutes.