---
---

# None
## `1e02b9ad919bd1676f5a73f526f6c709`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from South Carolina 
for engaging in debate in the respectful and substantive way he has 
done so. We agree on many issues but not on this one.

Let me, in the very brief time I have, respond to a couple things he 
said. First, just an observation. He asked: How, under my amendment, 
are we going to determine who al-Qaida is in Iraq?



Well, I guess I ask the question: How are we doing it now? 
Presumably, we are identifying our enemy and attacking them. We are not 
just attacking them indiscriminately.

He said: How in the world are we going to determine who al-Qaida is? 
I certainly hope we have some kind of a way to do that now. I am very 
puzzled by that argument.

But the broader point of this issue is this: The heart of the 
argument of the Senator from South Carolina is that somehow having a 
timetable and withdrawing from this mistake in Iraq is going to help 
both al-Qaida and Iran. I would say it is just the opposite. The 
situation in Iraq is ideal for al-Qaida. It is sapping our military 
strength in Iraq and throughout the world at the same time that al-
Qaida, according to our own public National Intelligence Estimate, is 
reinvigorating itself in Pakistan, in Afghanistan, and around the 
world. So it is just the opposite.

Continuing this involvement in Iraq that we have right now completely 
plays into the hands of those who attacked us on 9/11.

Now, the Senator from South Carolina poses the notion that somehow 
Iran would be pleased to see us leave Iraq. Well, I am sure that is 
true eventually. But at this point it is actually ideal for Iran. They 
are expanding their influence, and we are taking the hits. We are 
taking the hits in terms of casualties, we are taking the hits 
financially, and they do not have to go in and invade or try to control 
Iraq.

So actually it is the status quo that benefits Iran. It is perfect 
for them, and they are showing it every day. So it is just the 
opposite. Two of the most problematic enemies we have--Iran, in the 
form of a country that is very difficult for us, and al-Qaida, in terms 
of a terrorist organization--they benefit from our mistake of 
indefinitely continuing this involvement in Iraq. I believe that is the 
national security analysis that is most appropriate. That is why I 
offer this amendment in the spirit of national security, not simply in 
the spirit of trying to bring our troops out of Iraq.

Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time and ask unanimous 
consent, again, that my time be reserved.