# TRIBUTE TO FREDERICK M. DOWNEY
## `1e051262cb10468347c57306d51622a8`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 12 June 2008`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise today to express my profound 
gratitude and heartfelt best wishes to Frederick M. Downey, a true 
friend and dedicated public servant who will be leaving my Senate 
office after serving 12 years as senior counselor and legislative 
assistant. Given all that we have been through together, Fred's 
departure is truly a bittersweet occasion. While I am excited for Fred 
as he pursues an exciting opportunity with the Aerospace Industry 
Association, I can't help but think what a great loss his leaving will 
be for me, my staff, and the people of Connecticut.

Fred came to my office having already amassed a long and 
distinguished record in public service and national security. A 
distinguished military graduate of the Virginia Military Institute, 
Fred served in the U.S. Army for 24 years, rising to the rank of 
colonel. In the Army, Fred held a variety of infantry, troop, and staff 
positions in the United States, Europe, the Middle East, and in 
Vietnam.

Between 1988 and 1991, Fred worked in the Office of the Deputy Chief 
of Staff for Operations and Plans in the Department of the Army, where 
he was responsible for advising senior Army leaders on national 
security policy and military strategy. He played a leading role in 
examining the post-Cold War strategic environment, formulating options 
used by Army leaders when developing a national security strategy and 
force structure to meet the needs of the new international system. Fred 
also played an integral role in developing the Army's strategy for 
Operation Desert Storm. Fred then served as assistant to the director 
of net assessments, before retiring from the Army in 1993 and joining 
TASC, Inc. At TASC, Fred provided analytical services to the U.S. 
Government and our allies.

Even with all Fred had already done for our country, his instinct for 
public service proved strong; and in 1996 he agreed to leave TASC and 
accept a position as my legislative assistant for defense and foreign 
affairs. Naturally, I was delighted to have someone with his background 
and expertise join my team.

Fred's tenure in the Senate has been one of remarkable distinction. 
For over a decade, while America's role in the world has undergone 
profound and sometimes tumultuous changes, I have consistently been 
able to rely on Fred to give me the highest level of counsel on 
critical military and foreign affairs issues. In addition to his almost 
encyclopedic knowledge of military matters, Fred quickly demonstrated 
that he possessed keen legislative and political instincts. As my 
designated representative to the Senate Armed Services Committee, Fred 
has been indispensable in my efforts to transform America's military so 
that is it better suited toward the national security needs of a post-
Cold War world. With Fred's invaluable assistance, I was able to 
develop and pass legislation establishing the Quadrennial Defense 
Review and the National Defense Panel, which requires the Pentagon to 
regularly assess what it will require to keep America safe in the 
future, as well as legislation establishing the U.S. Joint Forces 
Command. Also, as part of the annual Defense authorization bill, Fred 
and I crafted a series of provisions to reform the policy, procurement, 
and research and development process at the Department of Defense.

Fred was just as focused and passionate in helping advance foreign 
policy legislation that was both tough on America's enemies and 
representative of our Nation's core values. With his strong guidance, I 
was able to enact a number of initiatives that promoted human rights 
and religious freedom abroad, increased American assistance to fight 
the spread of global HIV/AIDS, encouraged increased international 
cooperation and the expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization, and authorized efforts to prevent genocide.

After the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, when America was 
awakened to the grave threat posed by radical Islamist terrorism, Fred 
was steadfast in his efforts to advance legislation giving the Federal 
Government the tools it needs to protect Americans from further 
attacks. Working with my talented staff on the Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs Committee, Fred played a vital role in producing 
legislation that implemented the recommendations of the National 
Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States. Fred also 
teamed up with the committee on the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism 
Prevention Act of 2004, which enacted the most sweeping reform of our 
Nation's intelligence community in over half a century, and on 
legislation creating the Department of Homeland Security.

Fred recognized early on that for the United States to ultimately 
succeed in the war on terror, it is not enough to just seek out and 
capture terrorists, but that we must also work to provide the people of 
the Middle East and the rest of the Islamic world an alternative to 
radical Islamism by promoting democracy and economic development. With 
this in mind, Fred toiled relentlessly to advance initiatives designed 
to expand America's diplomatic outreach to the Muslim world and to 
promote democracy, human rights, and the rule of law in the Middle 
East. He also guided to passage the Afghanistan Freedom Support Act, 
which committed the United States to aiding Afghanistan as it seeks to 
rebuild for the long term.

In 2005, when the Pentagon recommended that the Naval Submarine Base 
in Groton, CT, be closed, Fred worked tirelessly as a leader in an 
effort to keep it open. Once again, his advice was pivotal toward 
developing a successful strategy that demonstrated to the Base Closure 
and Realignment Commission that the unique synergy of submarine 
construction and operating talent in southeast Connecticut is critical 
to our national security. Connecticut truly owes a debt of gratitude to 
Fred for his perseverance and commitment to the well-being of our 
State.

Of course, I couldn't possibly discuss Fred's service in the Senate 
without mentioning all the times he and I have traveled the world 
together on official business. Whether it was our annual trip to the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization summit in Brussels, or the numerous 
fact-finding trips taken to Iraq and Afghanistan, Fred was there to 
provide his thoughtful perspective.


Often these trips would keep Fred away from home during the holidays, 
an enormous sacrifice that I cannot begin to say how much I appreciate. 
Wherever we traveled, my visits to other parts of the world were always 
greatly enhanced knowing that Fred was at my side.

Fred is respected throughout the Senate for his outstanding work and 
breadth of knowledge. He has built a reputation with Senators and staff 
from both sides of the aisle for always being willing to take into 
account everyone's views and work together to reach a consensus. He is 
a true professional in the very best sense of the word.

I am deeply grateful to Fred's wife, Claudia, for her understanding 
of the marathon hours and taxing travel schedule that was so often 
demanded of Fred. Having been lucky enough to have gotten to know her 
and their two daughters, Dawn Harvey and Kelly Emery, I can only 
surmise that they served as an endless source of strength for him as he 
grappled with the tough issues facing the world today.

My entire Senate staff has been extremely fortunate to work with 
Fred, who was always willing to share his broad knowledge and counsel 
with his coworkers. When things would sometimes get hectic, Fred was a 
beacon of calm and stability; ready to impart the wisdom he had 
accumulated from his vast experience to help us all weather the storm. 
Many new legislative aides and fellows would find that Fred was someone 
they could approach whenever they needed assistance, and we have all 
been touched by his graciousness and sense of humor. He will always 
remain a treasured part of our office family, and the office will never 
be the same without him.

I am honored to have had Fred as a trusted advisor for all these 
years, and I am even prouder to call him my friend. While he will be 
missed immensely, my staff and I wish him happiness and health, knowing 
that he will be equally successful in his next endeavor. On behalf of 
myself, my staff, and the country, I sincerely thank Fred Downey for 
his many years of public service.
