---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2740, MEJA EXPANSION AND  ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `1e08f0b9122e731312c95089f433ac92`
`Ms. SUTTON — 3 October 2007`

---


Ms. SUTTON. H. Res. 702 provides for consideration of H.R. 2740, the 
Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act Expansion and Enforcement 
Act of 2007, under a structured rule.

The rule provides for 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled 
by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
Judiciary. The rule makes in order and provides appropriate waivers for 
three amendments.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this rule and the underlying 
bill which helps to address one of the most disturbing and pressing 
issues to come before the Congress this year, the lack of oversight and 
accountability of contractors abroad and here at home. And it is vital 
that we are passing the MEJA Expansion and Enforcement Act today to 
address at least one of these critical issues.

Currently, there are estimated to be at least 180,000 contractors 
working in Iraq under contracts awarded by the Department of Defense, 
the State Department, the U.S. Agency for International Development, 
and other Federal agencies. Yet under current law, only contractors 
working for the Department of Defense can be held responsible for 
crimes they commit while working in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere 
throughout the world.

At present, the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act, MEJA, 
leaves felonies committed by contractors working for other Federal 
Departments unpunished. This is unfair and unacceptable, and this 
Congress must act to ensure that justice is not a selective American 
principle.

Our current law has given private mercenary armies like Blackwater 
USA free rein to do as they please without fearing the repercussions. 
And as we have seen, that unbridled freedom from any accountability has 
resulted in sometimes egregious criminal behavior. But under the MEJA 
Expansion and Enforcement Act, Federal contractors working for every 
Department and agency will be held responsible for criminal acts. It 
will also direct the FBI to establish units to investigate crimes 
committed by contract personnel operating abroad.

Mr. Speaker, it simply makes no sense to hold contractors to a 
different standard than American citizens living at home or even the 
brave soldiers who risk their lives every day in Iraq. It is a travesty 
of justice that we allow private armies to evade punishment for serious 
crimes, especially considering we have prosecuted our soldiers for the 
very similar actions.



In a recent incident that has received significant scrutiny, 
Blackwater guards were involved in a September 16 shootout in Baghdad 
that left 11 Iraqis dead and a number wounded. This event spurred such 
a tremendous public outcry that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice had 
to apologize to Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al Maliki.

And we have learned from reports compiled by Blackwater themselves 
that since 2005, its employees have been involved in at least 195 
incidents in Iraq that involved the firing of shots by Blackwater 
guards. Blackwater's contract with the State Department stipulates that 
Blackwater may only engage in defensive use of force. However, in the 
vast majority, over 80 percent, of these shooting incidents, 
Blackwater's own reports revealed that its guards fired the first 
shots. In one incident that has recently come to our attention, 
Blackwater guards shot a civilian bystander in the head. In another, 
State Department officials report that Blackwater sought to cover up a 
shooting that killed a seemingly innocent bystander.

Since the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan began, and despite numerous 
instances where the military has found probable cause that a crime has 
been committed and has referred the case to the Justice Department, 
there has been only one successful prosecution of a civilian contractor 
for wrongdoing.

Without fear of reprisal, these reckless contractors have operated 
with no regard for the private property of innocent Iraqi citizens. In 
a November 2005 incident, a Blackwater motorcade collided with 18 
different vehicles. Written statements from team members were 
determined to be invalid, and a Blackwater contractor on the mission 
stated his tactical commander ''openly admitted giving clear direction 
to the primary driver to conduct these acts of random negligence for no 
apparent reason.''

Mr. Speaker, we have seen the number of contractors increase 
exponentially as the Bush administration has placed an unnecessary 
strain on our Armed Forces through the war in Iraq. In 2001, Blackwater 
had less than $1 million in Federal contracts. By 2006, that figure had 
grown to over half a billion dollars, an increase of more than 80,000 
percent. Today, there are approximately 180,000 Federal contractors in 
Iraq alone, a number greater than the American military presence. 
Because of the President's policy of escalation in Iraq, we have become 
more reliant on these contractors to protect American interests there. 
For every Blackwater mercenary the United States Government hires to 
protect embassy officials, Blackwater charges $1,222 per day, which is 
over six times more than the cost of an equivalent American soldier.

Mr. Speaker, the lack of oversight of Federal contractors committing 
crimes overseas is an example of how the system of Federal contracting 
is broken. Earlier this year, this Congress got off to a strong start 
by passing H.R. 1362, the Accountability in Contracting Act which 
helped restore integrity to the contracting process. I am also proud to 
be the sponsor of H.R. 2198, the Contractor Accountability Act, which 
will require the head of every agency and department to ensure that 
every Federal contract recipient is fulfilling their obligations after 
they are awarded that contract. It requires that every Federal agency 
and department awarding contracts submit a report on the status of 
those contracts to Congress. This is the type of oversight and 
accountability that is necessary to ensure that the problems that are 
happening in Iraq with Federal contractors and here at home can finally 
be put to an end.

Today, with the passage of the MEJA Expansion and Enforcement Act, we 
are addressing a critical loophole in our contracting crisis by 
ensuring that those contractors who commit crimes are held accountable 
for their actions. What we seek to do today is simple but important. 
The MEJA Expansion and Enforcement Act will hold Federal contractors 
operating overseas to the same standards we hold ourselves and to which 
we hold our brave troops. And let's be clear. This bill does not 
prevent contractors from using force if the situation calls for it. Our 
bill simply allows contractors to be punished for committing acts of 
murder and other felonies. Nobody should be immune from the law. This 
legislation will ensure that no one, even if he is a private contractor 
in Iraq, is.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.