---
---

# THE ECONOMY
## `1e0b6097965170e4353fa39e2bbbed4f`
`Mr. BOCCIERI — 15 June 2010`

---


Mr. BOCCIERI. Well, what do we invest in, Congressman Tonko? We 
invest in our greatest asset in America, and that's our people. We want 
to invest in our people, workforce retraining, investing in jobs in our 
economy, putting people back to work.

Putting the private interests of our citizens over public interests 
is what we see, Mr. Speaker, from the other side. They want to put 
private interests ahead of our good public interest.

We've seen the unregulated greed. We've seen what happens when things 
go unchecked on Wall Street. What we've seen when we've taken office 
just in the 111th Congress, I mean you and I are both freshmen, and we 
were handed a $3.5 trillion deficit. The record is very clear.

Look at this chart here, Congressman Tonko and Congresswoman 
Wasswerman Schultz. I mean, the last three Republican Presidents have 
given us tremendous debt to our Nation. And what we have heard, Mr. 
Speaker, from the previous speakers on the other side just a short time 
ago was how the government is out of control and we're spending. Well, 
look, it was Republican Presidents who were doing the spending.



The last surplus that America had was a $5.6 trillion surplus handed 
over to us by President Clinton. So, you know, for them to come over 
here and lecture Democrats about spending is pretty ironic, considering 
the facts here that this chart shows.

Now look, we have got to get our spending under control in 
Washington. Democrats and Republicans both agree on that point. We've 
got to make sure that we can pay for the wars that we're paying for, 
these two undeclared wars that we find ourselves in. We need to make 
sure that we live within our means like working people have to. But 
let's be clear, a $3.5 trillion deficit handed to us day one when 
Congressman Tonko and Congressman Boccieri walked through the doors is 
almost insurmountable in an economy that was on such downward spirals, 
as you had talked about.

So let's get this straight. This is the deficit that was handed over 
to us with a trillion-dollar tax cut to the wealthiest Americans, 
another trillion-dollar tax cut to the top 1 percent of our country, a 
prescription drug plan that left a huge doughnut hole for our seniors 
that was $500 billion, and two undeclared, unfunded wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Those are the facts.