# TRIBUTE TO MR. GEORGE L. PIRO
## `1e0d73ec06f2593cddf9ee5f52095671`
`Mr. RADANOVICH — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. RADANOVICH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Mr. George L. 
Piro, in recognition of being awarded the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation Director's 2007 Award for Excellence. Mr. Piro received 
this award of special achievement for his actions while assigned as the 
Team Leader for the sensitive interrogations of former Iraqi President 
Saddam Hussein and senior leaders of his regime.

Mr. Piro's exemplary actions as team leader of the High Value 
Detainees Team and as primary interrogator of Saddam Hussein resulted 
in the successful conduct of extremely sensitive and critical 
interviews. The results of Mr. Piro's interviews led to the November 6, 
2006 conviction for genocide and eventual execution of Saddam Hussein. 
Mr. Piro's efforts on behalf of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
were crucial in determining the extent of Iraq's relationship with Al-
Qadea.

In addition to his work as a FBI Supervisory Special Agent, Mr. Piro 
has also been recognized in the past as an exemplary police officer for 
the City of Ceres, California and as a Criminal Investigator II for 
Stanislaus County District Attorney's Office.

Originally from California's Central Valley, Mr. Piro joined the 
United States Air Force before beginning his career in law enforcement 
with the City of Ceres Police Department in 1989. Working his way up 
the ranks Mr. Piro became a Criminal Investigator II for the Stanislaus 
County District Attorney's office where he investigated felony cases 
involving career criminals and was assigned to the Stanislaus County 
Drug Enforcement Agency. In 1999, Mr. Piro began his career with the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation. First assigned to the Phoenix, Arizona 
Field Office, Mr. Piro then became the Team Leader and Lead 
Interrogator of the Saddam Hussein Interrogation Team in Baghdad, Iraq. 
Currently, Mr. Piro serves as Supervisor of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation's Joint Terrorism Task Force in the Washington, DC Field 
Office.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in recognizing Mr. 
George Piro for his outstanding service to our nation and 
congratulating him on receiving the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
Director's Award for Excellence.
