---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `1e137564b0a247495ab496d4aefa0165`
`Mr. REID — 14 December 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, in the proud history of America's Armed 
Forces, I fear that the Bush years will be known as a rare, even a dark 
time.

At a time when we call upon our troops to face new challenges and 
great dangers, our President stretched them thin and neglected their 
protection and care, in many instances. Military readiness levels have 
dropped to levels not seen since Vietnam. Tours of duty keep getting 
extended. We are so bogged down with over 160,000 troops in Iraq that 
we cannot adequately respond to the grave and growing challenges 
elsewhere, such as bin Laden, who remains free to taunt and threaten 
us; his al-Qaida network, which is more powerful than ever; like 
Afghanistan, where the gains of the past are now backsliding, the drug 
trade is rampant, and violence is on the rise; Pakistan, where the path 
toward democracy is wavering significantly.

It will take years to recover from the mismanagement of the military 
in the


past few years by our Commander in Chief.

Today, we can take steps that will make our country safer, aid the 
fight against terrorism, and provide our heroic troops with the care 
and support they deserve.

Mr. President, my ability to express my appreciation, admiration, and 
affection for Senators Levin and Warner--I am incapable of doing that.

To me there are no two finer Senators whoever served this body. There 
are no two Senators who have done more for our armed services. They not 
only take care of those who are now fighting for us, they take care of 
those who have fought for us in wars passed.

I certainly am going to miss Senator Warner. He has another year with 
us. That is good for Nevada, it is good for Virginia, and it is 
wonderful for our country. He will contribute significantly to the 
well-being of the Senate and our country during the next year. Senator 
Levin is someone I lean on all the time. He is a person who understands 
what legislation is all about, probably more than most all of us. There 
is no one who can look at a piece of legislation and make an analysis 
of what is good and bad about that legislation. It doesn't matter if it 
is a matter dealing with our military or a matter dealing with 
something important to his State or, as far as that goes, if there is 
something important dealing with my State and I want a real good 
analysis of it. I don't turn to my staff; I turn to Carl Levin. I say 
to these two fine gentlemen that I speak not only for this Senator, but 
I speak for all Senators.

They, and all of us, understand rebuilding our Armed Forces must 
begin with a sufficient number of troops, but today the military is 
struggling to meet its recruiting goals. We are taking people into the 
military when we would not have thought of taking them into it a few 
years ago--people not graduating from high school, people with criminal 
records. That is why this Defense authorization bill provides funds to 
speed the growth of the Army from 512,000 to 547,000, an increase of 
35,000, which is so important, and the Marine Corps, from 180,000 to 
202,000, an increase of 22,000, both of which are significantly above 
the goals set by President Bush.

We also go beyond the President's request for $1 billion for the 
strategic readiness fund and add $1 billion to replace equipment for 
Guard and Reserve that has been sent to Iraq. Every natural disaster 
exposes the depleted capacity of our Guard and Reserve, and this bill 
begins to make that right.

This Defense bill also refocuses our military by saying there will be 
no permanent bases in Iraq. We need not be seen as an occupying force 
in Iraq. In a couple months, we will begin the sixth year of that war. 
We don't need permanent bases in Iraq.

This legislation has important language addressing potential waste, 
fraud, and abuse by establishing a Commission on Wartime Contracting. 
This is so important.

It beefs up our counterterrorist operations along the Afghan-
Pakistani border to help fight al-Qaida and capture bin Laden, an 
effort that has been abandoned, it seems.

Last, but not least, it honors our brave troops who have given so 
much and receive sometimes so little in return. We start by giving 
everyone in uniform an across-the-board 3.5 percent pay increase. Those 
in uniform did not join to get rich; they joined to serve our country.

This pay increase, as I said, will not make them rich. They did not 
enlist to get rich. They joined the military to serve this great 
country. Though a 3.5-percent increase certainly will not make them 
rich, it will help them make ends meet and help their families to do 
the same as they face the burden of a husband, wife, mother or father 
serving an extended tour of duty someplace in the United States or 
around the world.

This pay raise didn't come from President Bush. He opposed it, or I 
should say part of it. It comes from Congress. We provide care and 
support for our troops when they are back home because our commitment 
to them must not end when their combat tours end.

The Wounded Warrior Act is in this bill which will improve health 
care and benefits for recovering veterans, servicemembers, and their 
families.

Senator Patty Murray directed me and a number of other Senators to go 
to Walter Reed. She knew what was there. It was early in the morning, 
but it was a trip that any time of the day would have been beneficial. 
What we learned there was the basis of the Wounded Warrior legislation 
led by the Senator from Washington, Patty Murray.

The American people will, for many years in the future, be indebted 
to her for this legislation, and I appreciate very much the managers of 
this bill placing this important legislation in it.

I am especially pleased this bill has two provisions I have worked on 
for years. These two fine managers continue the improvement. The first 
will expand eligibility for combat-related special compensation for 
disabled veterans whose combat wounds force them into medical 
retirement before attaining 20 years of service. The three of us have 
worked on this issue for many years. This is very important. Current 
law requires these wounded veterans to fund their own disability 
compensation. We end that practice and do right by these heroes.

The second provision will restore equity for disabled retirees that 
the VA has rated as unemployable. This is the only group of 100 percent 
disabled retirees who still suffer the unfair disability offset from 
their retired pay. This legislation will right that wrong.

I would be remiss if I did not express my disappointment that there 
were not enough votes in the House to pass the hate crimes portion of 
the bill. There is a longstanding history of addressing hate crimes and 
actually hate violence in Defense authorization bills. It was only 
right and proper that we again did it this year.

The hate crimes portion would have made America a safer, better 
place. It would have given State and local law enforcement agencies the 
tools they need and want.

At a time we fight for equality across the globe, we ought to ensure 
equality in America. This issue will not disappear. We will keep 
fighting to give all Americans protection from hate violence.

Despite this setback, this is a bill that all 100 Senators can 
proudly support. At times of unprecedented challenges throughout the 
globe, this legislation will make us safe. At a time when we see a lot 
of waste, mismanagement, and misplaced priorities on the part of this 
administration and the people with whom they choose to do business, it 
reaches for a higher standard of integrity. That is what this 
legislation does.

At a time of tremendous strain on men and women in uniform, this 
legislation sends a strong message that we honor them, we respect them, 
and will always stand by them. I urge all my colleagues to send that 
message today by overwhelmingly passing this legislation.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that all time consumed today 
be counted postcloture. I thought consent was ordered last night that 
took care of this issue. If not, I hope can have this approved.
