---
---

# VETERANS DAY
## `1e162ba5292b8034f7b1136c09e436dc`
`Mr. CARDIN — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, 53 years ago, President Dwight Eisenhower 
named November 11 ''Veterans Day,'' setting aside that day to honor all 
Americans who have served our country so honorably in the military, 
both in war and in peace.

I want to take the opportunity this day of remembrance provides to 
say to all veterans and their families, thank you for your courage, 
your character, your strength, and the enduring power of your example. 
All Americans owe you our gratitude and appreciation for your 
commitment to and sacrifice for our Nation.

Since our Nation's struggle for freedom more than two centuries ago, 
nearly 50 million men and women have served in the U.S. military and 
nearly 25 million of these veterans are alive today. Our thoughts and 
prayers also are with our veterans of tomorrow--the 1.4 million 
Americans serving in our Armed Forces, including the more than 189,000 
service men and women who are in harm's way in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Because of the noble service and tremendous sacrifices of our men and 
women in uniform, the United States stands as a beacon of democracy, 
hope, and opportunity to the rest of the world.

At this moment, as we send soldiers to fight overseas, our support 
for our servicemembers must remain steadfast and strong. Our veterans 
have earned access to quality health care, affordable educational 
opportunities, and a chance to thrive once home.

I am proud today to be a part of this Congress that has worked to 
honor our commitment to our Nation's veterans. In September, the Senate 
passed the Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill for 2008. The 
legislation provides nearly 65 billion dollars for the Veterans' 
Administration. Specifically, the bill makes substantial new 
investments to improve and strengthen health care for our brave 
veterans, making critical investments in medical services, including 
treatment of traumatic brain injury, TBI, and post-traumatic stress 
disorder, PTSD, for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans; funding for new 
claims processors to address the backlog of pending disability claims, 
and the investment in VA repair and maintenance necessary to prevent 
another Walter Reed type situation. These investments address key 
shortcomings in our veterans health care system.

Although a minority in the Senate blocked our ability to send that 
legislation to the President's desk last week, we voted this past 
Thursday to provide temporary funding at the level the Bush 
administration requested. That amount is $4 billion less than what we 
in Congress originally intended. We remain committed to ensuring the VA 
receives the full $65 billion necessary to provide veterans the care 
and services they have earned.

But just as important as the quality of care is access to care. My 
colleague, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, and I have worked together to 
secure Federal funding for two new VA community-based clinics in 
Maryland--one at Andrews Air Force Base in Prince


George's County and another at Fort Detrick in Frederick County. Not 
only will facilities like these help to reduce backlog and waiting 
times, they will allow more veterans to receive care close to home.

We know, however, that we can and must do more for our Nation's 
veterans, for those who have given so much to our country. In addition 
to giving our veterans the benefits they deserve, we must continue to 
honor their service and keep the memory of our fallen soldiers alive. 
In that spirit, I introduced bipartisan legislation to grant a Federal 
charter to the Korean War Veterans Association, S. 1692, the only 
fraternal veterans' organization in the Unites States devoted 
exclusively to veterans of the Korean war. This bill unanimously passed 
the Senate, and I am hopeful it will soon pass the House. Should that 
happen, it will ensure that the nearly 1.2 million American veterans of 
the Korean war will receive the Federal recognition they deserve for 
their dedication and sacrifice.

As elected leaders, we also have an obligation to act as good 
stewards for our military, exercising wise judgment for its use and 
providing the equipment, training, and materiel necessary for its 
success. My colleagues and I have made a good faith effort to act as 
those stewards.

Just this past Thursday evening, Congress passed a spending bill that 
provides $460 billion for the Department of Defense, which is $40 
billion above the fiscal year 2007 enacted level. Congress directed 
that money be spent on a pay raise and better medical care and benefits 
for our troops but also on procuring new equipment for our National 
Guard, increasing troop strength, and developing the Armed Forces and 
the tools necessary to engage in the very different types of conflicts 
we are confronted with in the world today.

In his second inaugural address, a portion of which is engraved on 
our Veterans' Administration building, President Lincoln said:




 Let us strive on to finish the work we are in; to bind up 


 the nation's wounds; to care for him who shall have borne the 


 battle, and for his widow, and his orphan--to do all which 


 may achieve and cherish a just, and a lasting peace, among 


 ourselves, and with all nations.


I see those words as a charge to us here in Government, laying out 
the grave and important work we have left to do. But I think these 
words can serve as a guide to all of us, in every community, today and 
every day, as we welcome and honor our returned and returning heroes 
and work toward a more perfect Union.