# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `1e18459e8e4a8751f9d7d1285d7f92ed`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON — 17 September 2008`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Madam President, I rise today to speak about the 2009 
Defense authorization bill. I will vote in favor of this legislation 
primarily because I support pay raises for our troops, but I have some 
very serious concerns about how this bill came to the floor.

This $612.5 billion measure will authorize spending for national 
security programs in the Defense and Energy departments. That includes 
$70 billion to fight the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan, and a 
3.9 percent pay raise for military personnel. I proudly support those 
appropriations.

In the last year and a half, we have made incredible progress in our 
war against the terrorists, and in building a sustainable democracy in 
the heart of the Arab world. Since General Petraeus became the U.S. 
Senior Commander in Iraq. al-Qaida has been swept from its former 
strongholds in Anbar province and Baghdad. Roadside bomb attacks and 
fatalities in Iraq have fallen by nearly 90 percent. The Iraqis--
through organizations such as ''The Sons of Iraq''--are taking more 
responsibility for their security.

General Petraeus recently left his position as Commanding General in 
Iraq to become the Commander of U.S. Central Command. The task of 
leading U.S. forces in Iraq now rests in the capable hands of GEN Ray 
Odierno. I commend General Odierno on his promotion, and on behalf of 
all America, I wish him success in completing the ''surge strategy.''

We must resist calls for premature withdrawal from Iraq and maintain 
our presence there until victory is secure. Today's appropriations bill 
gives us the resources to continue that mission. However, the U.S. 
Senate has a long history of allowing members of both the majority and 
the minority to offer amendments, debate changes, and ensure that the 
concerns and ideas of every Senator are addressed. Traditionally a 
majority of Senators will decide an issue after bipartisan 
deliberation. But in this case, the Senate majority leader decided the 
issue with no input from the minority.

The 110th Congress has experienced a record number of cloture votes--
due in no small part to the tactics employed by the majority. The 
methods by which this bill came to the floor are not in the best long-
term interests of the Senate. They are not in the best interests of the 
American people. The citizens of our country deserve better.

I am glad that our brave service members will have the armaments and 
equipment they need, and that our veterans will have the health care 
and other benefits they deserve.



Once again, I will vote for this legislation because the risk to our 
soldiers and veterans is too great. Time simply ran out. But we should 
all be concerned by the manner in which this bill was presented.