# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2764, THE  DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `1e1f65d4d5fc5462c60045b29a4f1d03`
`Mr. GINGREY — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. I thank my colleague for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I want to remind the previous speaker that this body and 
the other body passed a spending bill for our veterans increasing by $4 
billion over 3 months ago, and the President made very clear, 
emphatically stating that he was ready to sign that bill to get this 
money to our veterans, and the Democratic leadership has made a 
decision, for whatever reason, not to send that bill to the President. 
So I think it's important to point that out.

Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight in opposition to the rule and to the 
underlying bill in its present form. In regard to the rule, I can't 
expound and do any better than the comments that the senior Republican 
long-term member of the Rules Committee has just outlined, the 
gentleman from Florida. That stack of 11 bills in this omnibus sitting 
in front of the gentleman from Florida is almost as large as the 
Internal Revenue Code, which I understand is as thick as nine Bibles. 
Mr. Speaker, that's probably as thick as at least six Bibles, and every 
rule has been waived. And all this business about earmark reform, it 
makes a total mockery of that. So, Mr. Speaker, from the standpoint of 
the rule, absolutely I am opposed to it.

We need earmark reform. I have submitted legislation to cut earmarks 
by 50 percent immediately and then 1 percent of discretionary spending 
in the subsequent year and to say that no Member of this body, no 
matter how powerful, should have a larger bite at the apple in regard 
to Member-directed initiatives, or what the general public, who's so 
outraged at that process, knows as pork and/or earmarks.

In regard to the bill itself, my colleagues, I'm sure, hopefully on 
both sides of the aisle, will be opposed to this omnibus because 
there's not one penny, Mr. Speaker, not one penny of money for our 
troops in Iraq. That in itself is a reason why absolutely I would be 
opposed to this omnibus. But, Mr. Speaker, there's more. There is much 
more when we look into the weeds and finally see some of the things in 
these bills.

Last year this body voted to strike language from the energy and 
water bill that would not allow the Corps of Engineers to update 
manuals in regard to how they control water releases from certain dams 
in the Southeast where we are suffering from a severe drought, Mr. 
Speaker. And yet this same language now is stuck in on the Senate side, 
and it's in this omnibus bill that would prohibit the Corps of 
Engineers from updating these 25-year-old manuals, making the drought 
in the Southeast worse than it has ever been. And, Mr. Speaker, I want 
to point out the fact that in this body last year when we voted to 
remove that language from those bills, Speaker Pelosi voted to remove 
the language; Majority Leader Hoyer voted to remove the language; 
Appropriations Chairman Obey voted to remove the language; Minority 
Leader Boehner voted to remove the language; and every subcommittee 
chairman on the Appropriations Committee, the so-called cardinals on 
the Democratic side, voted to remove that language. Now it's in there 
sort of air-dropped on the Senate side.

There are other things in here, Mr. Speaker, that I am so much 
opposed to. There's increased funding for title X, almost $17 million 
for Planned Parenthood and abortion providers, but there's no increased 
funding for critical abstinence education, which goes a long way to 
ensure that abortion services wouldn't be needed, Mr. Speaker.

There is $2.9 billion in here, Mr. Speaker, to provide for security 
on our southern border, to build that fence that this body has called 
for; yet there are all kinds of restrictions. In fact, the committee 
says 15 conditions have to be met before this money can be spent on 300 
or 400 miles of fencing on our southern border that we so desperately 
need, and at the same time there's millions of dollars in this omnibus, 
Mr. Speaker, that provides legal defense funds to defend illegal 
immigrants who are in this country. I just don't quite understand the 
logic of that, Mr. Speaker.

I am sure my colleagues are as confused as I am over this gimmick of 
advanced appropriations. But how does this body say that we are going 
to spend $2.4 billion additional money on Labor-HHS and say that we are 
not going to count it against this year's appropriation, that it's 
going to be counted in 2009, this so-called advanced appropriation? Is 
it an emergency, Mr. Speaker, to spend $100 million to provide security 
at the upcoming Republican and Democratic National Conventions? Is 
that, my colleagues, what we would call money that needs to be spent in 
an emergency?

And last but not least, Mr. Speaker, I put language in an 
appropriation bill that would not allow funding for States that mandate 
that our little girls in the fourth and fifth grade, our 9-, 10-, 11-
year-old children, could not attend public school unless they receive a 
shot against human papillomavirus, a sexually transmitted disease, not 
a communicable disease like measles, mumps, and whooping cough. 
Unfortunately, this funding is allowed in this omnibus, but my language 
is removed.

So for many, many reasons, my colleagues, vote ''no'' against the 
rule and vote ''no'' against this bill when it comes to us in its 
present form.