# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `1e5757427aba716de3fdc3ec8a270442`
`Mr. SERRANO — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. SERRANO. I will be brief, but I think part of what you hear from 
the other side is an innovative way of using the English language. So 
they speak about cuts and increases and tax increases and in a way 
which doesn't necessarily speak to reality. So let me try the same 
thing then. I might as well.

The President wanted $243 million more than this bill that comes to 
you today.

Therefore, I would say, I cut the President. But I haven't seen one 
of you get up to say that was a good thing.

The President wanted $243 million more in our bill than what we are 
presenting to you. Therefore, the President took a cut. Mr. Chairman, I 
know I am not supposed to speak to them, I want to see them do the same 
thing when the President proposes more money for Iraq and for that war 
that was based on lies and bad information, and see if you are willing 
to cut that.

Secondly, you keep saying that this bill is 8, 9, 10 percent above 
last year. Again, a play on the English language, because this bill did 
not exist last year.

This is a new subcommittee. This committee is composed of different 
agencies that were put together for this committee.

Therefore, technically speaking, this is the first budget we give 
you. Next year, you can either say that I cut it or I increased it, but 
not this year, because this bill did not involve anything from last 
year.

Now, you could say, now he is getting picky. But if you listen to 
their proposals for the last couple of weeks, that's what they have 
been doing. They have been discussing these issues that have nothing to 
do with anything.

Again, you are going after a bill that came in very tight, a bill 
that came in below the President's request, a bill that funds basic 
services, a bill that has 80 percent of its funding for administrative 
operations in 25 different agencies. There is no fat here; there is no 
waste of money here.

Do you want to discuss waste of money? Later on we can discuss the 
war in Iraq, and we can discuss the tax cuts for millionaires that we 
have in place. That is the real waste of money, but we won't touch 
that. We will continue to bash this poor little bill that came in under 
the President's request.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.