---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `1e655b2d0871406e3244e035ed089172`
`Mr. DODD — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today 
to honor the memory of U.S. Army Reserve CAPT Benjamin Sklaver, who was 
killed on October 2, when his patrol came under attack in Muscheh, 
Afghanistan. He was 32 years old.

Captain Sklaver personified the values and qualities of a U.S. Army 
officer, and dedicated himself to improving his country and helping 
those most in need, both in uniform and as a private citizen. As a U.S. 
Army captain, Benjamin Sklaver distinguished himself as a capable and 
talented leader; and as an employee of the CDC and


FEMA Captain Sklaver used his skills to help Americans prepare for and 
recover from disaster.

Perhaps the most inspiring chapter of his life came after a 2007 
deployment to the Horn of Africa, where Captain Sklaver saw how hard it 
was for rural Ugandan villagers to obtain clean drinking water. Upon 
his return to the United States, Sklaver helped found the ClearWater 
Initiative to help bring access to clean water to war torn regions. In 
just 2 short years, Captain Sklaver's Initiative provided access to 
clean, potable water to over 6,500 people in Africa, where his charity 
work earned him the nickname ''Moses Ben.''

Guided by a deep sense of patriotism and the Jewish principle of 
Tikkun Olam, or fixing the world, Captain Sklaver touched the lives of 
thousands, and his contributions to his country and to those he helped 
around the world will not soon be forgotten.

All of us owe a deep debt of gratitude to Captain Sklaver and his 
family. I extend my deepest condolences to Captain Sklaver's parents 
Gary and Laura, his brother Samuel, his sister Anna, his fiance Beth 
Segaloff, and to all those who knew and loved him.













 Specialist Justin Pellerin
