---
---

# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `1e68feadaa19e330a6deb6797ddc7e72`
`Mr. FORBES — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. FORBES. Madam Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Chairman, once again we hear the reasons and the policy reasons 
why we would like to have legislation, but it doesn't suggest why we 
need poorly drafted legislation.

My good friend from Virginia, for whom I have the utmost respect, 
mentioned that there were 17 pending cases of detainee abuse, including 
some that occurred at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. But we already have 
jurisdiction for those. This isn't a bill that deals with prosecutorial 
discretion or whether or not we are going to have prosecutors prosecute 
those cases. This is a jurisdictional bill.

The second thing, my good friend mentioned the fact that some of the 
deficiencies in this bill were corrected by the manager's amendment. 
The only thing the manager's amendment has done is to say with our 
security concerns for our FBI agents, who normally do not do 
investigations in war zones, they do them domestically, we have a 
manager's amendment that says that they can request assistance from the 
Secretary of Defense.

Madam Chairman, requesting assistance and security and getting it are 
two different things. We had the ability to request bipartisan 
cooperation in redrafting this legislation. It didn't happen.

So our concern, Madam Chairman, is not again all that we hear in the 
debate about getting at bad apples, but it is why we want to reduce the 
jurisdiction that we currently have for some of those bad apples; and, 
secondly, why we are going to expose and create vulnerabilities for our 
intelligence network and also for our FBI when it is so easily 
corrected, if we could just sit down and do that with the proper 
amendments.

Madam Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.