# IRAQ
## `1e966d4283371efc8a33ea9107379713`
`Ms. COLLINS â€” 31 January 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, first let me thank Senator Warner and 
Senator Nelson for their continuing hard work in refining the language 
of this very important resolution, a resolution that I hope will garner 
widespread bipartisan support when it is brought to the Senate floor 
and debated next week.

Since we first introduced our resolution last week, we have had the 
benefit of further consultations with experts. We have had the benefit 
of conversations with our colleagues. We have had the benefit of 
alternative resolutions that have been proposed by other Senators, and 
we have had the benefit, most of all, of additional hearings in the 
Senate Armed Services Committee, including a classified briefing today. 
All of this activity has confirmed my belief that our resolution as 
originally proposed was on precisely the right track, but the benefit 
of these hearings, briefings, conversations and consultations has led 
us to improve our resolution by making four modifications that the 
distinguished Senators have just explained.

Let me, for the benefit of our colleagues, run through them one more 
time.

First, the resolution now makes very clear that nothing in it is to 
be construed as advocating any lessening of financial support for our 
troops. Indeed, it goes firmly on record as being opposed to cutting 
off funds that would be needed by our troops in Iraq. The language is 
very clear on that.

Second, there has been a great deal of discussion about the need for 
the Iraqis to meet certain benchmarks--benchmarks that in the past they 
have not met. So we include language in this resolution that makes very 
clear that we expect the Iraqi Prime Minister to agree to certain 
benchmarks; for example, to agree to work for the passage and achieve 
the passage of legislation that would ensure an equitable distribution 
of oil revenues. That is a very important issue in Iraq.

It also includes a benchmark that the Iraqis are going to produce the 
troops they have promised, and that they are going to operate according 
to the military rules of engagement without regard to the sectarian 
information or the sect of the people involved in the fighting. In 
other words, it doesn't matter whether an insurgent is a Sunni or a 
Shiite; if he is violating the law, engaging in violence, the Iraqi 
troops and our troops would be able to arrest and detain or otherwise 
battle these individuals.

It clarifies the language regarding the troop increase that the 
President has proposed, and as the Senator from Virginia has explained 
to our colleagues, it calls for a clarification of the command and 
control structure so that we don't have a dual line of command. We want 
to have a very clear chain of command, and we call for that. That isn't 
the case now, and if you ask any military officer, he or she will tell 
you that having a clear chain of command, a unity of command, is 
absolutely essential. We have made these four changes in our 
legislation, in the resolution. We hope our colleagues will take a 
close look at it. I look forward to debating it more fully when we get 
on this issue next week.


Again, I commend the distinguished Senators with whom I have been 
very privileged to work on this: Senator Warner, the former chairman of 
the Committee on Armed Services, my colleague, Senator Nelson, also a 
member of the Committee on Armed Services. All three of us serve on 
that committee. We have brought to bear our experience and what we have 
learned in the last week as we continue to study this very important 
issue, perhaps the most vital issue facing our country.