---
---

# TRIBUTE TO COLONEL STEWART NAVARRE, USMC
## `1ea321b1620963c775815fa865078ab2`
`Mr. ISSA — 25 May 2007`

---


Mr. ISSA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 30 years of 
exemplary service that COL Stewart Navarre of the United States Marine 
Corps has given to this great country.

Colonel Navarre has served in many capacities since graduating Marine 
Corps Basic School in 1977. He served as Rifle Platoon Commander and 
Commanding Officer and as the Commander of the Fifth Marine Regiment in 
Iraq. In 2004 and 2005 he oversaw and coordinated the training and 
operations of the Iraqi Army and Police in the Marine sector of Iraq. 
Colonel Navarre is currently assigned to Camp Pendleton where he lives 
with his wife, Yana Lahanis.

As Chief of Staff for all Marine Corps installations west of the 
Mississippi River, he is a trusted advisor and true advocate of our 
troops. Over the years he has selflessly dedicated his life to injured 
Marines and their families by promoting community involvement, 
assistance for disabled Veterans, and support to troop family members.

In his 30 years of military service Colonel Navarre has proven 
himself an able and willing leader. He has received the Legion of 
Merit, an award given for exceptional service in a time of war or 
peace. He also received the Defense Meritorious Service Medal, the 
third highest peacetime defense award.

On behalf of the people of the United States, whom Colonel Navarre 
spent a career serving, I thank him for his service and commitment to 
the defense of our Nation.
