# HONORING PETTY OFFICER 2ND CLASS JAIME JAENKE
## `1ea47150fbb027874bf3c852b8749eeb`
`Mr. KIND — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. KIND. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Petty Officer 2nd 
Class Jaime S. Jaenke of Bay City, WI. Jaime courageously answered the 
call to serve her country in its time of need, and she made the 
ultimate sacrifice on June 5, 2006 when she was killed by an improvised 
explosive device that detonated near her convoy while she was 
conducting security operations in the Anbar Province of Iraq. As a 
Seabee reservist, Jaime was assigned to the Naval Mobile Construction 
Battalion 25 based at Fort McCoy, Wisconsin. Today, I bear witness that 
Jaime's efforts and the efforts of all our service men and women will 
forever be remembered. On Saturday, August 25, 2007, at the courthouse 
in Ellsworth, WI, a plaque will be dedicated in Jaime's memory.

Jaime is a true national hero who dedicated her life to helping and 
serving others. Beloved daughter of Susan and Larry, Jaime served as an 
emergency medical technician in Ellsworth, WI, before answering the 
call to serve in Iraq. As a medic for her unit, Jaime will be 
remembered by her comrades as a generous and compassionate individual. 
Friends and family will remember and cherish her caring and contagious 
smile and sense of humor. Jaime will be dearly missed by her loving 
daughter, Kayla. When we step back and realize the incredible service 
of our men and women in uniform, we must always remember Jaime, for she 
was one of our finest.

The men and women from Wisconsin serving in Iraq are doing a terrific 
job under very difficult and dangerous circumstances. They are simply 
the best that our nation has to offer. We will be forever grateful for 
the sacrifice made by Petty Officer 2nd Class Jaime Jaenke. She was a 
true patriot, serving her country selflessly while giving the Iraqi 
people the greatest gift of all, their freedom. She also gave the 
American people a great gift, the chance to live in a safer world.

As a mother, daughter, and friend, Jaime will live on in our hearts 
as a hero and her legacy will never be forgotten. I pledge to do all 
that I can to ensure that Jaime's life was not lost in vain.

Perhaps President Franklin Delano Roosevelt said it best: ''She 
stands in the unbroken line of patriots who have dared to die, that 
freedom might live, and grow, and increase its blessings. Freedom 
lives, and through it, she lives--in a way that humbles the 
undertakings of most people.''

May God bless Jaime, and take her into his care. And may God's 
special blessings bring comfort to Jaime's family and friends always.
