---
---

# None
## `1ec34b7a41fb2e9bf6eb8f0741ef4441`
`Mr. POE of Texas — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I want to first congratulate the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Tanner) for sponsoring this legislation, and I rise in 
strong support of House Resolution 527, which commends the NATO School 
in Oberammergau, Germany, for its critical support of the NATO 
Alliance's efforts to promote global peace, stability and security.

The NATO School in Germany provides support and training for NATO's 
operations, including the stabilization mission in Afghanistan and the 
training of Iraqi officers. The school offers courses and programs to 
individuals from different countries focusing on peace support 
operations, arms control and nonproliferation, civil-military 
cooperation, governance and the building of military capacity in 
aspiring NATO member states.

As we all know, the NATO Alliance was the heart of trans-Atlantic 
security during the Cold War and is now transforming itself to address 
new security challenges. There is indeed a multitude of emerging 
threats and challenges that the Alliance must play a role in 
addressing, including the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction 
and piracy and the challenge NATO faces in the stabilization mission in 
Afghanistan. Indeed, NATO's performance in Afghanistan will serve as a 
test with regard to the Alliance's effectiveness and relevance in 
addressing the security challenges of the 21st century.

As the measure notes, the NATO School itself is playing an important 
role in ensuring that the NATO mission in Afghanistan is a complete 
success.

Again, I would like to express my support of this resolution, and I 
urge all my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support it as 
well.

I reserve the balance of my time.