---
---

# None
## `1ec3b11fab7bdcea533b9b9ea4a81814`
`Mr. DORGAN — 18 April 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, this morning, in one of the newspapers 
that covers Capitol Hill, there was a story with some complaints by the 
minority and the leader of the minority that the majority is filing 
what are called cloture motions. We are, in fact, filing cloture 
motions, and the reason we are doing it is because the minority doesn't 
want to move to debate the issues.

To give you an example, in recent days, we have had to file a cloture 
motion to have a vote on the Intelligence Authorization Bill. It turned 
out the minority, in nearly a unanimous vote, succeeded in blocking our 
ability to even debate the bill. That was the motion to proceed on the 
debate, not the debate itself. The question is: Shall we proceed to 
debate reauthorization of intelligence? The minority said we won't give 
you the permission to approve the motion to proceed. We are going to 
have to have you file cloture on that. We will then have a cloture vote 
and 40-plus will decide to march in against it. So you cannot proceed 
on the intelligence reauthorization.

On the issue of negotiating lower prescription drug prices, the 
minority says we won't allow you to go to the bill to negotiate lower 
drug prices under Medicare. You have to vote on a motion to proceed. 
They come over and, by and large, oppose the motion to proceed so we 
cannot go to negotiating lower drug prices for Medicare.

About an hour or two ago, we had to have a vote on going to the issue 
of court security--security in our court system. They required us to 
file cloture and have a vote on the motion to proceed to going to 
security for America's court system. It is unbelievable.

Let me go back for a moment on this issue of intelligence. They 
required us to file cloture on the motion to proceed. If there is 
anything critically needed by this Congress and this country--
especially this country--it is to get this issue of intelligence right. 
Why is that important? We live in a very dangerous world. We face a lot 
of threats and challenges. We have been through the last half decade or 
more in a circumstance where the intelligence function in our 
Government has dramatically failed. The consequences of that have been 
life or death. Here are some examples:

We went to war with Iraq. We had many top secret briefings prior to 
the war given by our intelligence officials and top members of the 
administration. They told us, for example, that the country of Iraq 
threatened this country because it had mobile chemical weapons labs. 
They gave us substantial information about mobile chemical weapons labs 
in Iraq. It turns out now, much later, we discover that in fact those 
so-called laboratories didn't exist. The information our intelligence 
community gave Congress came from one source, a man who was named 
''Curve Ball,'' who was largely considered to be a drunk and a 
fabricator. A single source--someone considered to have been a drunk 
and a fabricator--convinced our intelligence community and this 
administration to tell us and the American people that Iraq threatened 
this country because they had mobile chemical weapons labs. We now 
understand that wasn't true, but it was part of the foundation upon 
which a decision was made to go to war.

Aluminum tubes for the reconstruction of a nuclear weapons program in 
Iraq--we were told there was a nuclear weapons program, the 
reconstruction of which will threaten our country and threaten the 
world. It turns out the administration and the intelligence community 
told us a half truth. Some in the administration felt the aluminum 
tubes specifically ordered by Iraq were for the purpose of 
reconstructing a nuclear capability. Others in the administration felt 
equally strongly that there was no such thing involved, that it was for 
rocketry; it didn't have anything to do with the reconstruction of a 
nuclear weapons program. The intelligence community did not tell 
Congress about that portion of the debate.

Yellowcake from Niger. The President told the Congress in briefings 
and intelligence sources upstairs that Iraq was attempting to procure 
yellowcake from Niger for the purpose of reconstituting its nuclear 
capability. It turns out that was based on falsified documents, 
fraudulent documents. Based on a lot of information, including 
yellowcake from Niger, and allegations about Iraq trying to secure it, 
aluminum tubes purchased it was alleged for the purpose of 
reconstructing a nuclear capability, or mobile chemical weapons labs, 
reports of which came from apparently one source, a single source, a 
drunk and fabricator who used to drive a taxicab in Baghdad. That was 
the basis, at least in part, on which to build a foundation that told 
this country a threat exists against the United States and we must take 
military action against the country of Iraq.

We know what has happened in the interim. This war with Iraq has cost 
an unbelievable amount of money and lives. It has cost this country 
dearly around the world. Now we are in a situation where, according to 
the latest National Intelligence Estimate that there is a civil war in 
Iraq. That is a combined judgment of all of the intelligence sources in 
our country and the top intelligence officers and folks in the 
administration.

It is not, as the President seems to suggest, the fight against al-
Qaida in Iraq. Our National Intelligence Estimate tells us what it is. 
It is sectarian violence. There is some presence of al-Qaida in Anbar 
Province in Iraq, but principally what is happening in Iraq is not 
about al-Qaida and terrorists; it is about sectarian violence, 
committing acts of terror--Sunni against Shia and Shia against Sunni--
and the most unbelievable acts of terror you can imagine.


In fact, the head of our intelligence has since said this, that the 
greatest terrorist threat to our country is with al-Qaida and its 
leadership, which is in a secure hideaway in Pakistan. These are the 
people who boasted about murdering innocent Americans on 9/11/2001. No, 
they have not been brought to justice. They are, according to the head 
of our intelligence services, in a secure hideaway in Pakistan.

What, then, should be our greatest goal? What should be our priority? 
Continuing in a civil war in Iraq, having our troops in the middle of a 
civil


war in Iraq? Or deciding we are going to go after the terrorists who 
represent the greatest threat to our country, al-Qaida? That is not 
from me. The description of that comes from the head of our 
intelligence services in this country.

I have described the mistakes that were made. In fact, there was no 
oversight, of course, in the last few years in the Congress, none at 
all--no hearings, no oversight to talk about this. So I held oversight 
hearings as chairman of the Democratic Policy Committee. One day, I had 
four people come before the committee who previously had worked for the 
CIA, and others. One of whom was COL Larry Wilkerson, who served 17 
years as a top assistant to Colin Powell, including when he was 
Secretary of State. He was there when the presentation was made at the 
United Nations. He said later that was the perpetration of a hoax on 
the American people.

I cannot pretend to know what went wrong or how. I know in the 
aftermath that this Congress, with the majority that existed last year, 
held no oversight hearings and didn't seem to care, wanted to keep it 
behind the curtain. I know this, however: Going forward, this country's 
future and this country's security depends on good intelligence. It 
depends on our getting it right, and it depends on our knowing what is 
happening. Reauthorizing the intelligence functions of our Government 
is critical.

It undermines our soldiers, in my judgment, for us not to take action 
to provide the very finest intelligence that can be available to us 
through reauthorizing our intelligence functions. It should have been 
done before, but it wasn't. It is brought to the floor now, but it will 
not be allowed to be debated because the minority says they don't want 
to reauthorize the intelligence functions under these conditions. I 
don't understand that. I think that shortchanges the American people.

But it is not just intelligence. Earlier today, the minority said we 
will not allow you to move forward on a domestic issue, and that is 
having the American people feel as though their Government is giving 
them the best deal possible by negotiating decent prices with the 
pharmaceutical industry for drugs that are purchased under Medicare. We 
hoped to have a debate about that. In 2000, the drug companies, the 
pharmaceutical companies, ran an advertising campaign in this country 
in support of creating a Medicare drug benefit. This is what they said: 
They touted a study that said private drug insurance will lower prices 
30 to 39 percent. That is what they said.

We understand about prices. Mr. President, let me, if I might, show 
you two bottles that formerly contained medicine. This is Lipitor. The 
American people understand about drug pricing and the unfairness to the 
American people. This is a drug produced in Ireland. A lot of people 
take it to lower their cholesterol. These bottles are, as you can see, 
identical. They held tablets of Lipitor, made in the same plant, FDA 
approved--exactly the same medicine. The difference is this one was 
actually sent to Canada to be sold. This one was sent to the United 
States. Well, this one was twice as expensive to the U.S. consumer. The 
same pill made by the same company, made in the same manufacturing 
plant, sold in two different places--one in Canada and one in the 
United States--and Americans were told you pay double. And it is not 
just Canada. Almost any country I could name will be paying lower 
prices for the same drugs, because the American consumer is charged the 
highest prices.

We have legislation to try to respond to that. There is plenty of 
opposition in this Chamber. The first step in dealing with this is for 
the Government, as the institution that created the prescription drug 
benefit under Medicare, to be using its capability to buy in large 
quantities to reduce the price by negotiating with the pharmaceutical 
industry. But when the prescription drug plan for Medicare was put into 
place in this Chamber, then the Republicans in the majority said: We 
are going to prohibit the Federal Government from negotiating lower 
prices with the pharmaceutical industry.

That is almost unbelievable, when you think about it. Can you think 
of anybody in your hometown doing that--saying we are going to do 
business with somebody, but we are going to be prohibited from 
negotiating the best price? Well, nonetheless, that was the law, and so 
now we are trying to change it to say, no, we believe the Federal 
Government ought to be allowed to negotiate better prices for quantity 
discounts. Yet, now the minority party will not even allow us to 
continue because they force a cloture vote on a motion to proceed--not 
the bill itself, but on a motion to proceed to the bill--and they block 
it.

Well, the pharmaceutical industry had said if we pass prescription 
drug benefits in the Medicare Program, it would lower prices 30 to 39 
percent. Has it done that? Well, no. I will give you examples: From 
November 2005 to April 2006--that is a half year--the prices charged 
for the 20 drugs most frequently prescribed to senior citizens 
increased by 3.7 percent, or about four times the rate of inflation. In 
the first quarter of 2006, drug prices shot up 3.9 percent, the highest 
first quarter increase in drug pricing in 6 years.

Now, some of my colleagues will argue that private plans are doing a 
terrific job of negotiating with drug companies. Well, we recently did 
a study on this subject. We did a study of 53 stand-alone Part D plans 
that are available in my State. We looked at the prices these plans 
paid for the 25 drugs most frequently prescribed to senior citizens. If 
those senior citizens bought the drugs at average Part D prices, it was 
$829. If you walked into the pharmacy downtown, it was $845. At Costco, 
it was $814. Where is the 30 to 39-percent discount here because the 
Federal Government has now become a giant purchaser? We used to get 
discounts under Medicaid--still do, in fact, under Medicaid, but those 
low-income senior citizens who migrated from Medicaid to Medicare mean 
we now pay more because we don't negotiate for lower prices with the 
prescription drug industry under Medicare. And that is the problem.


If all Secretary Leavitt would do as Secretary of HHS is to buy part 
D prescription drugs from Main Street pharmacies, Medicare will save 
money. I don't understand why those who are self-labeled as 
conservative would not be on the side of having the Federal Government 
make the best deal it can to save money when it is making bulk 
purchases of prescription drugs.

I understand part of what is happening. Part of what is happening is 
the pharmaceutical industry has a great deal of clout, and there is 
support for them in this Chamber. I don't come to the floor denigrating 
the industry. I don't like their pricing policies. I have told them 
that. The pharmaceutical industry produces some lifesaving medicine, 
some of it with research paid for by the American taxpayers through the 
National Institutes of Health and other venues, and some of it through 
their own research investment. They produce lifesaving medicines, and 
good for them. But lifesaving prescription drugs offer no miracles to 
those who can't afford to buy them, and pricing is an issue for all 
Americans.

With respect to the issue of senior citizens who are getting their 
prescription drugs now under the Medicare Program, pricing is an issue 
for the taxpayers because we are paying a much higher price than we 
should if we were to buy prescription drugs as we do in the veterans 
system, in the VA system. They are allowed to negotiate for lower 
prices in the VA system, and the result is dramatic.

We pay much lower prices for those prescription drugs because the 
Federal Government, as a very large producer, has the clout to 
negotiate lower prices. The Government is prevented specifically by law 
from doing the same thing with respect to the Medicare Part D Program, 
and it makes no sense at all.

I started by saying the minority party is now complaining in the 
newspapers this morning about the number of cloture motions that are 
filed in this Chamber. That is inconvenient, apparently, or they don't 
like it. I understand. But the fact is, the very party that complains 
about the cloture motions is objecting even to moving to a motion to 
proceed.

The motion is not shall we debate this issue, the motion is shall we 
proceed to the issue for a debate, and they are requiring that we file 
a cloture motion because they will not debate the motion to proceed, 
let alone the issue itself.



It was interesting that after the cloture motion failed on the motion 
to proceed because the minority blocked it, we had some people come to 
the floor to speak about the issue this morning to defend the 
pharmaceutical industry and say: No, the Federal Government shouldn't 
negotiate. It seems to me if they wanted to speak about the issue, why 
wouldn't they support the motion to proceed so we could actually get on 
the debate and they could debate on the issue rather than debate 
outside of what they have prevented?

I don't understand that. Maybe I shouldn't say that. I guess I do 
understand it. The complaint about our being required to file cloture 
motions comes from those who don't want to apparently go to 
intelligence reauthorization. They don't want to debate that bill, so 
they blocked it. They don't want to debate a provision that will allow 
us to negotiate lower prescription drug prices, so they blocked that 
bill. They forced us to have a vote on the motion to proceed on 
providing court security, for God's sake, in the shadow of the 
unspeakable tragedy and the heartbreak all of us feel with what has 
happened at Virginia Tech. The issue of court security ought not be 
controversial. Why on Earth should we be forced to file a cloture 
motion? Why should there be required a vote on the motion to proceed to 
something such as this issue? It doesn't make any sense.

The fact is, I have always said I think both political parties 
contribute something to this country. I believe that. We ought to get 
the best of what each can contribute to this country rather than what 
we often do, the worst of each. The best of what both parties can 
contribute to this country would give this country something to feel 
proud about. We ought to bring these issues to the floor of the Senate. 
Yes, reauthorize intelligence, yes, allow us to debate the issue of why 
shouldn't we negotiate lower priced prescription drugs on behalf of the 
taxpayers and on behalf of the American citizens. I held a hearing this 
morning on international trade. Yes, let's have that debate on the 
floor of the Senate. Why are we drowning in an $832 billion trade 
deficit? Why are American jobs being shipped off to China?

Let's have these debates on the floor of the Senate. Let's bring the 
bills out and have these debates rather than have exercises to try to 
block anybody from getting anything done. That is what has been 
happening. Block people from getting anything done and then go complain 
to the press that nothing is getting done--that is a very self-
fulfilling prophecy but not very genuine, in my judgment.

I hope in the coming days and weeks--we have 6 weeks or so before 
there is a period of a few days off during the Memorial Day break--my 
hope is that during this period of time, we can move forward on some of 
these issues on the floor of the Senate, have aggressive debates, and 
try to get the best ideas that could come from both Republicans and 
Democrats and put them in legislation that will advance this country's 
interests.

This country deserves that debate on fiscal policy, on trade policy, 
on foreign policy, on a whole range of issues. This country deserves 
that from this Congress.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.