# PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `1ed92b830b0cfb9249f99bf22693d949`
`Mr. DINGELL — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H. Con. Res. 301, 
which would direct the President to withdraw U.S. Armed Forces from 
Pakistan within 30 days or, if the President deems it not safe within 
30 days, to withdraw the troops by December 31, 2010.

Let me state unequivocally, I strongly support a vigorous debate on 
this matter, especially in light of the documents made available by 
WikiLeaks. I worry about leaks of classified information, especially 
when leaks could put our nation and our troops in harm's way. That 
said, the documents appear to make clear what we already knew, we are 
involved in a very messy and difficult war in the region.

This is something that President Obama realized when he ordered a new 
strategy in Afghanistan. For eight years I called on President George 
W. Bush to increase our resources devoted to the War in Afghanistan,


which I don't need remind anyone is the nation from which the September 
11th attacks were launched. There were many others arguing the same 
thing. Finally, with President Obama we got serious policy review and a 
real strategy. It has been just 18 months since the President's speech 
at West Point which aptly reminded the nation that a very real threat 
still exists. Moreover, the additional 30,000 troops called for in that 
speech will not be fully deployed until September. It would be a 
mistake to abandon the President's plan now before we allow time for 
the plan to work. To do so could jeopardize the lives of our American 
troops.