---
---

# NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2010
## `1edee43c4d02fb4edb3e362f1806bb45`
`Mr. OBERSTAR — 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 4714, as 
amended, a bill to reauthorize the National Transportation Safety Board 
(NTSB), an independent agency with the vitally important responsibility 
to improve the safety of our nation's transportation network.

Since its inception in 1967, the NTSB has investigated more than 
132,000 aviation accidents and more than 10,000 surface transportation 
accidents. During those 43 years, the Safety Board has issued more than 
13,000 safety recommendations, with 82 percent of those recommendations 
accepted by the related agency or organization. In the last three years 
alone, the Safety Board has investigated more than 64 major accidents, 
issued 63 major reports covering all transportation modes (aviation, 
highway, transit, maritime, railroad, and pipeline/hazardous 
materials), and issued more than 521 safety recommendations.

The NTSB is widely acknowledged as the world's premier accident 
investigation agency. Thanks to the NTSB's diligent work in 
investigating the causes of past transportation accidents, and in 
recommending solutions, the traveling public is safer today than ever 
before.

But we must not be content with the progress we have made in 
improving transportation safety. That is why H.R. 4714, the ''National 
Transportation Safety Board Reauthorization Act of 2010'', provides the 
Safety Board with additional tools it needs to accomplish its crucial 
mission. To maintain its position as the world's preeminent 
investigative agency, the NTSB must have the resources necessary to 
handle increasingly complex accident investigations.

Accordingly, this bill authorizes increased funding over the next 
four years: $107.6 million in fiscal year (FY) 2011, $115.3 million in 
FY 2012, $122.2 million in FY 2013, and $124.2 million in FY 2014. 
These funding levels will allow the NTSB to hire an additional 66 full-
time equivalent (FTE) positions, increasing its staffing to 477 FTEs. 
According to the NTSB's 2009 human capital forecast, 477 FTEs represent 
the Safety Board's optimal staffing level and enables the agency to 
take on more investigations and accomplish detailed examinations of 
transportation safety issues.

These funding levels are consistent with the previous NTSB 
authorization bill. In 2006, the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure authorized $100 million for the Safety Board to support 
475 FTEs in FY 2008 and FY 2009. That is the same number we are 
discussing today, plus two additional FTEs to support the recently-
enacted Rail Disaster Family Assistance Act. My good friend from 
Alaska, and former Chairman of the Committee, Don Young, introduced 
that legislation in 2006, which was adopted by a voice vote in 
Committee.

Unfortunately, appropriations have not kept pace with the Safety 
Board's needs. NTSB believes that it is imperative to increase its 
staffing to 477 FTEs to ensure that it has the investigative staff it 
needs to conduct effective investigations.

Importantly, H.R. 4714 also contains an explicit authorization for 
the NTSB to do what it


has done historically: investigate incidents as well as accidents. The 
Safety Board's work in response to incidents is no less important and 
has produced a body of work that, without question, has prevented 
future accidents and loss of life.

The NTSB's work in investigating past incidents has taught us that 
incidents are often precursors to major accidents that involve 
fatalities and serious damage. I recall the Safety Board's work on 
near-collisions and runway incursions in the 1980s, when I chaired our 
Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight. In response to a spate of 
runway incursions--including one incident in which two DC-10s with a 
combined 501 passengers on board nearly collided at Minneapolis-St. 
Paul International Airport--the Safety Board issued detailed 
recommendations to the Federal Aviation Administration and operators on 
how to prevent similar near-disasters. In the years since, the Safety 
Board has continued its work in analyzing runway incursions. Enhancing 
runway safety remains a priority on the NTSB's Most Wanted List of 
aviation safety improvements.

In addition, H.R. 4714 should resolve, once and for all, any 
ambiguity in the NTSB's authority to issue subpoenas in all 
investigations. In a few cases, NTSB investigations have been hindered 
or delayed when the recipients of subpoenas have not complied, arguing 
that the NTSB's authority to issue subpoenas only extends to the 
conduct of public hearings. H.R. 4714 makes it clear that the NTSB's 
subpoena authority extends equally to all investigations: those that 
require public hearings, as well as those that do not.

The bill also clarifies that the NTSB is not required to determine a 
single cause or probable cause of a transportation accident, but may 
determine that there was more than one probable cause. The bill keeps 
pace with advances in accident investigation, which recognize that a 
particular accident is rarely attributable to a single cause or 
probable cause, and that most accidents happen as the result of 
cumulative factors.

The bill also holds the NTSB accountable, by requiring the Safety 
Board to develop a list of criteria that it will use to determine 
whether to hold a public hearing in any particular investigation.

Furthermore, H.R. 4714 permits the NTSB to delegate its full 
authority to investigate major marine casualties to the Coast Guard if 
the NTSB determines that Coast Guard personnel assigned to investigate 
marine casualties possess the training, experience, and qualifications 
necessary to employ best practices in use by marine casualty 
investigators. In addition, the bill ensures coordination and 
cooperation between the NTSB and the Coast Guard in investigations of 
major marine casualties.

H.R. 4714 also permits the NTSB, upon coordination with the State 
Department, to investigate a transportation accident that occurred 
overseas, and to use appropriated funds to complete that investigation. 
The NTSB accepted such a delegation of responsibility by the government 
of Afghanistan to investigate the 2004 crash of Blackwater 61, in which 
six Americans lost their lives.

H.R. 4714 provides the NTSB with the necessary funding and authority 
to accomplish its critical mission of ensuring the safety of the 
traveling public.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 4714.





















 House of Representatives,



















 Committee on the Judiciary,



















Washington, DC, March 4, 2010.


 Hon. James L. Oberstar,


 Chairman, Committee on Transportation, House of 




 Representatives, Washington, DC.



 Dear Chairman Oberstar: This is to advise you that, as a 


 result of your having consulted with us on provisions in H.R. 


 4714, the National Transportation Safety Board 


 Reauthorization Act of 2010, that fall within the rule X 


 jurisdiction of the Committee on the Judiciary, we are able 


 to agree to discharging our committee from further 


 consideration of the bill without seeking formal referral, in 


 order that it may proceed without delay to the House floor 


 for consideration.



 The Judiciary Committee takes this action with our mutual 


 understanding that by foregoing consideration of H.R. 4714 at 


 this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction over subject 


 matter contained in this or similar legislation, and that our 


 Committee will be appropriately consulted and involved as the 


 bill or similar legislation moves forward, so that we may 


 address any remaining issues in our jurisdiction. Our 


 Committee also reserves the right to seek appointment of an 


 appropriate number of conferees to any House-Senate 


 conference involving this or similar legislation, and 


 requests your support for any such request.



 I would appreciate your including this letter in the 


 Congressional Record during consideration of the bill on the 


 House floor. Thank you for your attention to this request, 


 and for the cooperative relationship between our two 


 committees.





 Sincerely,
























John Conyers, Jr.,


 Chairman.