---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `1ee5cdc859f4f93c57492ae098d61971`
`Mr. AKAKA — 28 September 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for the 
fair competition amendment proposed by my colleague from Massachusetts, 
Senator Kennedy, to H.R. 1585, the Defense Department authorization 
bill.

This amendment would minimize the harmful effects that the current A-
76 process for outsourcing federal functions to private contractors has 
on Federal workers. It will do this by leveling the playing field 
between Federal workers and private contractors by removing several 
unfair advantages that contractors currently have in the process. I 
want to highlight just two of the important improvements that the 
amendment would make to the A-76 process.

First, this amendment would take away the competitive advantage that 
contractors currently have if they deny their employees health and 
retirement benefits. I have fought to improve and protect federal 
workers' benefits as the chairman of the Federal Workforce 
Subcommittee. At a time when more and more Americans have no health 
insurance, it is simply wrong to give private contractors an advantage 
in winning work done by DOD employees by denying their workers the 
health benefits that Congress has guaranteed to Federal employees.

Also, this amendment would give employees the same right to protest 
unfair contract awards under the A-76 process that private contractors 
already have. The current situation makes no sense. Private contractors 
were given the right to protest contracting decisions in the 
Competition in Contracting Act of 1984, a law that was written for 
competitions between private contractors. The same protest right was 
never extended to Federal workers who compete against private 
contractors under the A-76 process. Basic fairness dictates that if one 
party can protest the results of a contest, both sides should be able 
to.

I believe this amendment introduces a more appropriate level of 
caution into the process for outsourcing Federal jobs. Caution is 
especially important for jobs related to national defense and security. 
The recent events involving Blackwater as a contract security provider 
in Iraq remind us how difficult it can be to hold outside contractors 
accountable. The Federal Government over time has been a model for fair 
and equal employment practices, and in turn Federal workers have shown 
strong loyalty, courage, and dedication to serving their country. When 
we award jobs that are currently done by Federal workers to private 
contractors, we limit our ability to demand a high level of 
accountability and fairness from the private companies that win the 
contracts, nor can we expect the same level of dedication from their 
employees.

When used properly on a limited basis, the A-76 process can improve 
Government efficiency by injecting competition into certain Federal 
functions that mirror activities performed by the private sector. 
However, the results of A-76 competitions suggest that there is limited 
economic value to the process. Federal employees do their jobs more 
efficiently than private contractors in most cases. Federal employees 
win 80 percent of the competitions under the A-76 process despite 
advantages given to private contractors. These positive results do not 
justify keeping the advantages granted to the private sector. Leveling 
the playing field will do more than make A-76 competitions objectively 
fairer. It can undo the harm to Federal employee morale that is caused 
by forcing them to compete for their jobs within a system that is 
rigged against them.

At a time when the Federal Government faces tremendous challenges in 
hiring and retaining talented workers, it is important that we act to 
address the harmful effects that the current A-76 process has on the 
Federal workforce. That is what the fair competition amendment would 
do, and I urge my colleagues to support it.
