# CAREGIVER ASSISTANCE AND RESOURCE ENHANCEMENT ACT
## `1ee6f9a9b798865c6901c260c6578016`
`Mrs. HALVORSON — 27 July 2009`

---


Mrs. HALVORSON. Thank you, Mr. Filner, for yielding. I also want to 
thank the chairman of the subcommittee, Mr. Michaud, for his leadership 
on this issue.

As an original cosponsor, I rise in strong support of this CARE Act, 
which, among other things, will provide the caregivers of our injured 
heroes access to a wide range of services. H.R. 3155 includes language 
from my bill, H.R. 2898, the Wounded Warrior Caregiver Assistance Act, 
which authorizes the VA to make supportive services available to our 
caregivers.

Specifically, the CARE Act provides counseling, better training and 
respite care for family caregivers. It makes sure that the VA conducts 
community outreach through PSAs and brochures and informational 
pamphlets. Finally, it helps caregivers locate resources for additional 
support from public, private and nonprofit agencies.

Having a stepson that was severely injured in Afghanistan, I have 
firsthand understanding of how important these support services are. 
H.R. 3155 will give family caregivers the tools and resources they need 
to provide the highest quality care to an injured son, daughter or 
spouse.

I would also like to take a moment to say thank you to caregivers 
across this Nation. Mothers, fathers, spouses and other family members 
are sacrificing their time, their energy and, in many cases, their 
futures to provide 24/7 health care for those who have fought to defend 
our Nation. For far too long, we have not provided them with the 
resources that they need to properly protect and care for our wounded 
warriors.

This bill will allow the VA to care for our caregivers, something 
that is long overdue. For these reasons, I strongly urge my colleagues 
to support the CARE Act.