# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `1eea7d0368c741dd736bbef05eb65b13`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 9 May 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you so much, Mr. Altmire.

I have to tell you what a pleasure it is to have the reinforcements 
in you and Mr. Murphy and a number of other Members, you, Madam 
Speaker, to have been elected on November 7 to bolster the efforts of 
the 30-Something Working Group. Because we hung in there for the last 
couple of cycles and took to the floor every night to talk to the 
American people and to our colleagues on this floor about the issues 
that we believed were important to them that were not being addressed 
by our colleagues and good friends on the other side of the aisle when 
they were in charge.

I want to follow up on what you and Mr. Murphy have just been 
discussing relating to the President and his attitude. The conclusion 
that I have reached is that it must be that the President has contempt 
for the democratic process. I can't really reach any other conclusion 
besides that.

Because we are not a monarchy. He hopefully realizes that he was not 
elected king. He is not self-appointed. He is one of three branches of 
government that are coequal, coequal meaning we have as much say and as 
much right to weigh in on something as significant as whether to, A, 
commit our troops to war, and, B, we control the appropriations, we 
control the purse.

And what we believe, as Democrats, is that it is irresponsible for us 
to give this President a blank check and an open-ended commitment to 
the Iraqi government with absolutely no accountability and no 
requirement that there be progress forward or benchmarks met. I mean, 
the President must believe that we aren't listening to our 
constituents, or maybe he's not listening. He says he is listening. In 
fact, on April 24 of this year the President said this, ''Last 
November, the American people said they were frustrated and wanted 
change in our strategy in Iraq. I listened.''

Really? I have yet to see any evidence of him listening. What I have 
seen evidence of, and, you know, I know that I often go back to the 
analogy of my interaction with my own children when talking about this 
President, but my frustration and observation about the insolence on 
occasion of my own children is similar to what we have been observing 
from the reaction from this White House.

I really can analogize it that when I am talking to, for us as the 
Democratic majority in Congress, we sent him legislation in the 
supplemental appropriations bill that he vetoed. And I have the 
privilege of serving on the Appropriations Committee and served on the 
conference committee. We sent him the legislation with a timeline for 
withdrawal, with his own benchmarks as he outlined on January 10, with 
accountability and with protection for our troops, A, ensuring that 
they not have a tour of duty without a 365-day separation in between 
those tours, the Army's own rules. We made sure that there was $1.7 
billion in funding for veterans' health care. We made sure that there 
was $1.7 billion in there for military health care, something that you 
have been incredibly concerned about, veteran and military health care, 
Mr. Altmire. And on and on. The issues that were, according to the 
President, very important to him and clearly important to the American 
people.

And so he vetoed that and said that there were other concerns that he 
had, that he didn't want his hands tied, that he wanted to have the 
flexibility, that he just wanted a blank check and open-ended 
commitment. We, being a coequal branch of government, have gone back to 
the drawing board. And the Democratic majority believing in compromise 
and a need to negotiate in good faith, we have now put forward another 
proposal, a proposal that is designed to address the concerns that he 
outlines.

And normally when you're going through a good-faith negotiation there 
is what's called ''back and forth,'' for example, the analogy that I 
began a minute ago, when my children don't like what I'm telling them, 
when I'm talking to my kids and I explain to them that I want them to 
do A and they don't want to do A, and we kind of go back and forth. And 
being a parent of small children, sometimes it's a dictatorship, but 
sometimes there's negotiation. And it always works better when you can 
work things out with your kids and teach them that compromise is going 
to get you further. But when they don't like that compromise, my kids, 
just like all kids, stamp their foot and whine a little bit and tell me 
that they don't want to do that.

That really feels like how this President has reacted to Congress' 
clear ability to weigh in on the direction that this war should be 
taking. The American people certainly have weighed in. And what I don't 
understand is why the President isn't willing to come to the table and 
negotiate in good faith. The my-way-or-the-highway attitude that he has 
taken is irresponsible.

What we are doing in this next proposal is we are making sure that we 
fully fund over the next 3 months the


funding that the troops need. We provide the President and the Army 
with the funding that they need, but we tie it to benchmarks, we tie it 
to progress. The Iraqi government cannot believe that we will be there 
forever.

And then we have a second vote where we would come back; and if the 
President can certify to us that those benchmarks are being met, then 
the rest of the funding would be released. If he can't certify that to 
us, then the funding that we would appropriate would be used to go 
through a redeployment process.

Because at some point the madness has to end. That is what the 
American people have told us when we've gone home to our districts in 
town halls, in e-mails, in phone calls. The President appears to have 
ear plugs in his ears, and it's wrong. And that's why the Founding 
Fathers established coequal branches of government, so that one person 
in the executive office, in the Oval Office could not unilaterally 
decide to commit our troops, to keep them there and to engage us in 
military action indefinitely. It's irresponsible.

Mr. Murphy.