# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `1ef49ddfc8525bc0f8b773c45ce0d22d`
`Mr. DeFAZIO — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. DeFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I have listened to some of the debate on 
this resolution. I have been disappointed by the misleading talking 
points and faulty analysis that have been repeatedly used by those who 
support the President's escalation of the war in Iraq.

Many speakers have tied Iraq to the broader war against al-Qaeda. 
These are two distinct wars. Iraq had not declared war on the U.S. Al-
Qaeda had. Iraq did not attack the U.S. Al-Qaeda did. Iraq did not 
harbor al-Qaeda leaders. The Taliban in Afghanistan did. By shifting 
military and intelligence resources out of Afghanistan before the 
Taliban and al-Qaeda were wiped out the administration has actually 
undermined the important war against al-Qaeda. The administration's 
blunders mean the U.S. is at risk of losing two wars at once: 
Afghanistan and Iraq. The war in Afghanistan is salvageable and 
winnable. The war in Iraq will not be won by military means alone. 
Vigorous diplomatic efforts within the Gulf region, in addition to a 
political realignment within Iraq will be necessary .

U.S. intelligence agencies, including military intelligence agencies, 
have refuted the claim that the conflict in Iraq is driven by al-Qaeda. 
It is not. The violence is driven by a civil war, primarily between 
Iraqi Sunnis and Shias. The recent National Intelligence Estimate 
should definitively put that issue to rest.

Even the President has recognized that al Qaeda is not the driving 
force for violence in Iraq. In a speech on December 12, 2005, the 
President made important distinctions between the insurgent elements in 
Iraq. He mentioned ''rejectionists,'' which are mostly Sunnis who miss 
the privileged status they enjoyed under Saddam Hussein. He mentioned 
''Saddamists'', who are former regime elements who want to return to 
power. Again, they are Sunni. And, he mentioned foreign terrorists 
affiliated with or inspired by al Qaeda, which even the President 
acknowledged was the ''smallest'' element of the insurgency. The one 
huge element he left out was nationalist Shias, such as those 
influenced by radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr.

The President and his allies justify the continuing U.S. presence in 
Iraq by claiming that if we don't fight there, we'll have to fight here 
at home. However, the Iraqi Sunni rejectionists, Saddamists, and 
nationalist Shias, who combined make up the vast bulk of the insurgents 
and militias committing violence in Iraq, have no interest and no 
capability to attack the U.S. homeland. They just want U.S. military 
forces out of their own country. U.S. forces are a target of 
convenience in their escalating civil conflict. It is deceitful to 
argue that if we don't fight there, we will fight them in the streets 
of the United States.

The war in Iraq is not a part of the war against al Qaeda. And, in 
fact the war in Iraq is undermining our fight against al Qaeda.

Some in this debate have made the ridiculous argument that if the 
U.S. leaves Iraq that somehow Osama bin Laden will take control and 
establish a safe haven for terrorists to attack the U.S. There is no 
chance that the Shias and Kurds, who represent around 80 percent of the 
population in Iraq, will allow Sunni foreign terrorist elements like 
al-Qaeda to take over the country. Even many Sunnis have grown tired of 
foreign terrorists operating in Iraq, with several Sunni tribes 
fighting al Qaeda operatives.

Iran and al Qaeda are the primary beneficiaries of the U.S. invasion 
of Iraq and the two entities that most want the U.S. to stay there. 
With respect to Iran, the U.S. removed a threatening neighbor of Iran's 
and helped put in power a fellow Shiite regime, in addition to tying 
down the U.S. military and sowing international discord that has 
limited our options in confronting Iran's nuclear program. With respect 
to al Qaeda, U.S. intelligence agencies have noted that Iraq is serving 
as a training ground for terrorists and a recruiting poster that is 
swelling the ranks of terrorist organizations and inspiring attacks 
around the world.



It is past time to end the open-ended commitment the President has 
made in Iraq. As long as the U.S. military remains stuck with the 
President's pledge of open-ended support, Iraqi politicians and 
security forces will use the U.S. presence as a crutch. They will 
continue to fail to take the necessary steps to solve their 
differences, establish an effective and inclusive government, end 
sectarian violence, and create the foundation for a secure and 
prosperous society.

Democracy and stability cannot be imposed on unwilling parties. As 
New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman said on Meet the Press, a 
stable, pluralistic democracy in Iraq is everyone's second choice 
except ours. The Shias want power for themselves. The Sunnis want 
power. And the Kurds want power and independence. What they don't want 
to do is share that power. The President's stay-the-course, more-of-
the-same, status quo policy provides no incentive for the parties to 
reach the political compromises that are necessary.

Negotiating a timeline for bringing home U.S. troops with responsible 
parties in the Iraqi government would also boost the Iraqi government's 
legitimacy and claim to self-rule, and force the Iraqi government to 
take responsibility for itself and its citizens. Negotiating a 
withdrawal time line and strategy with the Iraqi government could, more 
than possibly anything else, improve the standing of the Iraqi 
government in the eyes of its own people, a significant achievement in 
a region in which the standing of rulers and governments is generally 
low.

As the Iraqi National Security Advisor, Mowaffak al-Rabaie wrote in 
the Washington Post on June 20, 2006, the removal of U.S. troops from 
Iraq, ''will help the Iraqis who now see foreign troops as occupiers 
rather than the liberators they were meant to be. It will remove 
psychological barriers and the reason that many Iraqis joined the so-
called resistance in the first place.'' He went on to write, 
''Moreover, the removal of foreign troops will legitimize Iraq's 
government in the eyes of its people . . . the drawdown of foreign 
troops will strengthen our fledgling government to last the full four 
years it is supposed to.''


Being confronted with the reality of a U.S. withdrawal should force 
the Iraqi factions to reach the political compromises necessary to move 
their country forward. If not, there is no reason to prolong the U.S. 
involvement in Iraq if we want a stable country more than the Iraqi 
people and their elected leaders do. The U.S. cannot force Sunnis, 
Shias, and Kurds to make peace or to act for the common good. They have 
been in conflict for 1,400 years. Nor should the U.S. military be 
forced to remain in Iraq essentially as an army for one side of a civil 
war. Supporters of escalating the war may pretend that they're doing it 
for the Iraqis, but large majorities of both Sunnis and Shias approve 
of attacks against U.S. troops and want us to bring them home.

The President believes that the U.S. needs to escalate the war in 
Iraq by sending more than 20,000 additional troops to Iraq. I think 
that is a mistake. It will not bring stability to Iraq, and I oppose 
it. That is why I will vote for the resolution on the floor this week.

The administration blunders in Iraq are well-known. They went in with 
too few troops against the advice of military leaders like General 
Shinseki. They disbanded the Iraqi army. They failed to understand the 
ethnic tensions and power bases in Iraq. They purged the Iraqi 
government of the bureaucratic experience necessary to have a 
functioning government, among others.

I do not believe there is any level of U.S. troops that could 
stabilize Iraq at this point and resolve the underlying ages old 
sectarian conflicts. The time when more troops might have made a 
lasting difference has come and gone. There might be a small, temporary 
reduction in the chaos in Iraq, but the escalation will not solve the 
deep and underlying political conflicts that are preventing a long-term 
resolution to the violence.

The administration already increased the number of U.S. troops in 
Baghdad last summer in Operation Together Forward and has increased the 
number of troops throughout Iraq at other times as well, yet the 
violence against our troops and Iraqi security forces and civilians 
continues to increase. Short-term improvements in security in the wake 
of U.S. troop increases have always given way to the long-term trend of 
increased violence and a growing civil war.

Based on historical analysis, counterinsurgency experts, including 
General Petraeus, who is now the top U.S. General in Iraq but also 
recently rewrote the Army's counterinsurgency manual, estimate it takes 
around 20 U.S. troops per 1,000 inhabitants to successfully fight a 
counterinsurgency. To achieve that ratio in Baghdad alone would require 
120,000 troops. Even with the increase proposed by the President, the 
U.S. would only have a third of that at best. For all of Iraq, it would 
require 500,000 troops. General Shinseki's original estimate that it 
would take several hundred thousands troops to invade and stabilize 
Iraq was based on this counterinsurgency literature. After the 
escalation we'll only have around 160,000.

The bottom line is that a proposal to increase U.S. troop levels in 
Baghdad or Iraq more generally by more than 20,000 is not a serious 
effort to restore stability to Iraq. As General John Abizaid, then the 
head of all U.S. forces in the Middle East, testified before the Senate 
Armed Services Committee hearing on November 15, 2006, ''I met with 
every divisional commander, General Casey, the corps commander, General 
Dempsey, we all talked together. And I said, in your professional 
opinion, if we were to bring in more American Troops now, does it add 
considerably to our ability to achieve success in Iraq? And they all 
said no. And the reason is because we want the Iraqis to do more. It is 
easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us to do this work. I believe that 
more American forces prevent the Iraqis from doing more, from taking 
more responsibility for their own future.'' Essentially, the President 
is proposing to put more lives at risk with virtually no chance of 
changing the dynamic in Iraq.

A better strategy for Iraq is to announce a timeline negotiated with 
the Iraqi government for bringing our troops home over the next 6 
months to a year. The administration has always set timelines for 
political developments in Iraq--for elections, for the drafting of the 
constitution etc. The administration argued such timelines were 
necessary to focus the energy of Iraq's leaders and to force 
compromises. We need to do the same on the military side.

In the interim, I have also proposed that U.S. troops be removed from 
front line combat positions in Iraqi cities and towns, turning over 
daily security patrols, interactions with citizens, and any offensive 
security actions to the Iraqis themselves.

The training and equipping of Iraqi security forces should be 
accelerated and the sectarian balance must be improved.

The U.S. must renounce any U.S. interest in constructing permanent 
U.S. military bases in Iraq.

It is also important to accelerate reconstruction spending and grant 
the bulk of reconstruction contracts to local companies employing 
Iraqis rather than multinational corporations, whom have proven 
inefficient, inflexible, sometimes fraudulent and have even imported 
workers rather than employing Iraqis.

The U.S. embassy in Baghdad should also be reduced to normal size and 
authority rather than establishing one of the largest embassies in the 
world.

And, the U.S. must engage in robust diplomacy with all factions in 
Iraq, except the foreign terrorists and domestic al Qaeda elements, and 
work with Iraq's neighbors in an effort to bring about political 
reconciliation among Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds.

Our troops have done all that has been asked of them in Iraq. Saddam 
Hussein is dead. His allies are on the run or in prison. The threat 
from WMDs in Iraq is nonexistent. Arguably, the war that Congress 
authorized has been won. Our troops should come home. Congress did not 
authorize U.S. troops to referee a civil war in Iraq.