---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `1f11586309236da0289f7d0b3c2076bd`
`Mr. BIDEN — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, once again we are debating additional 
wartime funding for Iraq. Once again, we are trying to mitigate the 
damage caused by the President's utterly failed Iraq policy and the 
failure to properly plan for and manage the aftermath of Saddam 
Hussein's fall. I have spoken many times about how damaging this lack 
of planning has been to our efforts in Iraq and to our standing in the 
world.



For the past 2 months, the spotlight has shone on another 
administration failure in this war: the shameful conditions our wounded 
soldiers face as outpatients navigating the military health system when 
they return from Iraq or Afghanistan. This is another example of gross 
mismanagement and a strained system. As such, I will offer amendment 
No. 766 to improve the care that members of the Armed Forces and 
veterans receive at Walter Reed and other military medical facilities.

The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that some of the reasons 
for concern at Walter Reed do not occur in the future. As the living 
conditions for outpatients at Walter Reed Army Medical Center indicate, 
moving to private contracts for maintenance can cause problems. After a 
private contract was awarded for maintenance and upkeep of buildings on 
the campus of Walter Reed Army Medical Center, a maintenance crew of 
approximately 300 was whittled down to 50 by the time the contract went 
into effect. Many of the terrible living conditions found in Building 
18 were a direct result of delays in building repair and maintenance 
because of a shortage in manpower. To prevent this situation from 
occurring again, this amendment calls for public-private competitions 
of maintenance services at military medical complexes to stop while our 
country is engaged in military conflicts. It also calls for a 
Government Accountability Office review of contracting-out decisions 
for basic maintenance work at military facilities.

Other problems discovered at Walter Reed are directly attributable to 
shortages resulting from pressures to cut budgets for military medical 
services. These cuts cannot be tolerated at a time when military 
medical services are needed to treat servicemembers who have been 
wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan. As such, this amendment would require 
medical command budgets to be equal to or exceed the prior year amount 
while the Nation is involved in a major military conflict or war.

Another issue that the conditions at Walter Reed brought up is 
whether or not the facility should be closed as the Base Realignment 
and Closure Commission recommended. The Commission recommended building 
new, modern facilities at the National Naval Medical Center at Bethesda 
and at Fort Belvoir to improve the overall quality of care and access 
to care in this region. Military leaders have indicated that the 
planned closure has limited their ability to attract needed 
professionals to jobs at Walter Reed and there have been concerns 
raised whether adequate housing for the families of the wounded has 
been properly planned. To deal with that, this amendment requires the 
Department of Defense to submit to Congress within one year a detailed 
plan that includes an evaluation of the following: the desirability of 
being able to guarantee professional jobs for 2 years or more following 
the closure; detailed construction plans for the new facilities and for 
new family housing; and the costs and benefits of building all of the 
needed medical treatment, rehabilitation, and housing before a single 
unit is moved.

Another major problem and source of frustration for injured soldiers 
is the length of time it takes to receive a disability determination. 
In order to hasten the disability determination process, we need to 
ensure that the Department of Defense has information systems capable 
of communicating with those in the Department of Veterans Affairs. The 
VA has been a leader in implementing electronic medical record keeping, 
but we have to improve the capability of the Department of Defense to 
send electronic medical records to the VA to speed up the disability 
determination process. Making the disability determination system more 
efficient can reduce the stress on the soldiers and their families 
going through the determination process.

Caseworkers are also critical. They schedule appointments and make 
sure wounded servicemembers get the rehabilitative and follow-up care 
they need. As more and more soldiers and marines come home wounded, 
many military caseworkers are overwhelmed. To improve the care given to 
servicemembers, this amendment requires a minimum ratio of case 
managers to patients of 1 to 20, that case managers have contact with 
recovering servicemembers at least once a week, and that case managers 
be properly trained on the military's disability and discharge systems 
so they can better assist patients with their paperwork.

Currently, many combat veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan 
have service-related mental health issues like posttraumatic stress 
disorder, PTSD, and traumatic brain injury, TBI. Many have labeled TBI 
the ''signature injury'' of the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts. It is 
estimated that as many as 10 percent of those serving or who have 
served in Iraq and Afghanistan have brain injuries. That would mean 
about 150,000 of the 1.5 million soldiers who have served in Operation 
Enduring Freedom or Operation Iraqi Freedom have suffered a brain 
injury. In many cases, these injuries are not diagnosed because there 
is not an external wound. Depending on the severity of these injuries, 
returning soldiers can require immediate treatment or not have symptoms 
show up until several years later. This amendment calls for every 
returning soldier to be screened for TBI. While the VA has announced 
plans to do this, it needs to happen in active-duty military medical 
facilities too. In addition, the amendment calls for a study on the 
advisability of treating TBI as a presumptive condition in every 
service's disability evaluation system, as well as the VA disability 
evaluation system.

We often hear about the 25,000 soldiers and marines who have been 
wounded in these wars--but that figure grossly underestimates the 
demand that the VA health care system faces. Since our country was 
attacked on September 11, 2001, more than 1.5 million soldiers have 
been deployed to Afghanistan, Iraq, and other locations. Of these, 
630,000 are now veterans and, according to the Department of Defense, 
more than 205,000 have already received medical treatment through the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. A recent Harvard study on the long-term 
costs of treating these new veterans estimates that by 2012 more than 
643,000 veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan will be using the VA system, 
an almost three-fold increase of what the system faces now. With a 
significant backlog of claims currently existing, the system is in 
desperate need of an upgrade. To address this concern, my amendment 
directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress a plan 
for the long-term care needs for veterans for the next 50 years.

In addition to this amendment that I offer today, I am happy to have 
also joined with my colleagues Senators Obama and McCaskill and offered 
an amendment based on the Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act. My 
amendment complements the Obama and McCaskill amendment to improve the 
care our wounded soldiers receive at Walter Reed Army Medical Center 
and other military medical facilities. I believe both amendments will 
make medical care better for our military personnel and veterans. I 
also commend the Appropriations Committee for already providing 
approximately $3.1 billion in funding above the President's request for 
health programs in the Department of Defense and the Department of 
Veterans Affairs. Providing $1.3 billion for defense health programs 
and $1.767 billion for veterans' health programs is a great step to fix 
some of the problems we currently face.

It is our highest obligation to heal the hundreds of thousands of 
brave men and women who will bear the physical and emotional scars of 
these wars for the rest of their lives. While President Bush and his 
administration may have failed to plan adequately to ensure that these 
soldiers and veterans receive the care that they deserve, we in 
Congress must act now to improve this situation.