---
---

# EDMUND MUSKIE AWARD FOR NANCY PELOSI
## `1f16c79635880d7fec3990a701a52c1e`
`Ms. ESHOO — 26 June 2007`

---


Ms. ESHOO. Madam Speaker, the following remarks were delivered by 
Peter Kovler, Chairman of the Board of the Center for National Policy 
in Washington, DC, on June 19, 2007, on the occasion of Speaker Nancy 
Pelosi being the recipient of the Center's prestigious Edmund Muskie 
Award.




 In the entire history of the United States, I believe there 


 have been three powerful Speakers of the House during moments 


 of war. Henry Clay in the nineteenth century, Sam Rayburn 


 during World War II and now Nancy Pelosi during our 


 simultaneous wars on terror and the war in Iraq.



 But there is one stark difference between Speaker Pelosi 


 and Speakers Clay and Rayburn; and that is she has an 


 opposing view to the contemporaneous President of the United 


 States on how those wars should be run; and her courage and 


 her steadfastness in those views arguably make her the single 


 most significant Speaker in our Nation's history.



 How did Nancy Pelosi get to this point; and how this nation 


 is so fortunate to have her; and how an award named for Ed 


 Muskie is so appropriate are a few of the points I would 


 quickly like to address.



 In my view Nancy Pelosi has come to be our most important 


 foreign policy Speaker in part because of how she served in 


 the House before her rise to this position. As a 10 year 


 member of the House Permanent Select Committee on 


 Intelligence, she was its longest continuous serving member. 


 The experience and knowledge gained there has made her able 


 to deal with these issues in a sophisticated way, rather than 


 just guessing or speculating at what might be important. No 


 wonder she had the knowledge and skepticism that comes 


 with knowledge to oppose initially the Iraq invasion and 


 occupation, even when that kind of vote was so difficult 


 in those political and cultural circumstances. And no 


 wonder she knew so much about terrorism issues that she 


 would have the confidence to make implementation of the 9/


 11 Commission recommendations her very first piece of 


 legislation in her first five months.



 How fortunate are we to have her as the Speaker of the 


 House is one way to pose a question, but a second way is to 


 ask what it would be like if we had a speaker who had no 


 background in foreign policy analysis or in intelligence 


 analysis and not even any curiosity about the subject. I 


 think the answer is obvious, and we would have a House of 


 Representatives that was at best disinterested, but most 


 likely passive in the face of the Executive Branch and 


 passive in the face of an American public that is crying out 


 for better alternatives.



 Finally, I would like to address why the Muskie Award is 


 especially appropriate for Speaker Pelosi.



 For those of us in this room of a certain age, we know that 


 Ed Muskie's public life was inextricably tied to the Vietnam 


 War. He wrestled with that as the vice presidential candidate 


 in 1968. It happened again in his seeking the presidential 


 nomination in 1972. And though not getting wide public 


 notice, he did so again in the 1980s when as chairman of this 


 organization he ran numerous meetings on Vietnam policy, led 


 a delegation to Hanoi and, though still controversial, 


 advocated a new policy towards that country that included 


 their recognition.



 I bring this up because the Vietnam War has played such an 


 enormous part in our thinking on the Iraq War. For better or 


 worse, it is the single most significant historical parallel 


 we use in trying to come to grips with the Iraq War.



 And I believe that I can say with enormous confidence that 


 Ed, first a believer in the Vietnam mission and then a 


 skeptic about the choices we made, would have been so very 


 proud to have Speaker Pelosi as the recipient of an award 


 named after him.



 Ladies and Gentlemen, I present to you this year's winner 


 of the Center For National Policy's Edmund Muskie Award, 


 Speaker Nancy Pelosi.



