---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `1f18d0e2067be0b1e8ead887134cfe07`
`Mr. ENGEL — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 5/1/2/ minutes.

Madam Speaker, I am going to come here and speak from the heart. I do 
not want to read a speech because I think it is important to speak from 
the heart. I am not here to point fingers. I am not here to chastise 
anyone. I am not here to talk about what might have been.

I support our soldiers. I support the war against terror, but I rise 
in support of this resolution which is Congress' responsibility. We 
have to look, Madam Speaker, at the current situation in Iraq as it is, 
not as we might wish it to be, but as it is.

Several years ago, I voted to give the President the authority to go 
to war in Iraq based on what we were told then. I must say that I 
regret that vote.

I regret it not only because no weapons of mass destruction were 
found or that there was no connection between al Qaeda and Iraq at that 
time, even though we were told there was. There was obviously faulty 
intelligence. We will never quite know if we were misled or if our 
intelligence was bad. But one thing is very, very clear to me, that 
this war has been mishandled from the beginning.

The President is now talking about a surge of sending 21,500 more 
troops to Iraq. When we first went into Iraq, I am a big believer if 
you are going to do something, you do it right or you do not do it at 
all. We were told by General Shinseki that there were not enough troops 
in Iraq, not enough troops at that time several years ago to be able to 
protect the borders, to protect insurgents from coming in, to protect 
people that would do us ill from coming in.

And his statements were dismissed. Not only were his statements 
dismissed, but then he was dismissed; and now here it is 3 or 4 years 
later, we are being told that the solution is to send more troops 
again. It is obvious to me that this is too little too late.

The war in Iraq has morphed into a civil war. It is obvious to 
anybody who looks at the situation that the Shia and the Sunni are 
fighting each other, and our brave men and women are caught right in 
the middle of it. Eighty percent of the people of Iraq on both sides do 
not want us there, and more and more our people are becoming sitting 
ducks.

I grieve for the more than 3,200 brave Americans who have died and 
the countless thousands more who have been injured; but it is one 
thing, Madam Speaker, to die in fighting for the freedom of your 
country, defending your country. It is quite another to die in a 
senseless civil war that more and more we see we cannot control nor 
probably should we attempt to anymore.

From the minute we came into Iraq, unfortunately, not only did we 
have no troops, there was mistake after mistake. We fired the Ba'ath 
Party people. So we had people who were angry at us to begin with. We 
have not been able to give the Iraqis what we said we would give them. 
They find that their way of life is worse now than ever before. We were 
not greeted as liberators, but we were greeted as occupiers.

And when we look at what we supposedly are there to protect, we look 
at the leader of Iraq, Mr. Maliki. He is propped up by the al-Sadr 
brigade, viciously anti-American, viciously killing Iraqis. He cannot 
go after them. They are the base of his support, and we are to believe 
that somehow he is a great patriot and is fighting for democracy in 
Iraq.

We talk about al Qaeda. Al Qaeda is certainly a threat. I am a New 
Yorker.


I will never ever forget September 11, 2001. And we have to go after al 
Qaeda and we have to fight terrorism, but I believe that the war in 
Iraq has now become a distraction against the war on terror.

So by staying in Iraq, are we fighting the war on terror, or are we 
making it more difficult? A troop surge will not work. There are other 
priorities that we have. Our young people are sitting ducks. This is 
more and more like Vietnam. You cannot leave and you cannot stay.

We support our troops. This surge will not work. Congress needs to 
send this message to the President and to Iraq and to the world.