# None
## `1f41f337de40f60b5197484b9d0bccb6`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 3 April 2008`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Well, it is difficult to believe, Mr. President. We had 
our moment just last week in which those of us who were there in the 
Rotunda listened to our leader, who spoke so well, so movingly, as well 
as the other leaders, both Republicans and Democrats, to honor the 
anniversary of the war. Now, in the last few days, we have another 
moment of special significance, and that is the 4,000 soldiers--just 
with regard to Iraq--who have been lost and 500 more in terms of 
Afghanistan. I was very grateful to the Senator and to our other 
colleagues--and I am sure on the other side as well--who thought it 
would be useful to memorialize in the Congressional Record the names of 
these extraordinary men and women, listing their names, hometowns, 
their ranks, and their service, and that we could include that in the 
Record at this time. We are trying to do it at an appropriate time 
because we have been reminded about the loss of the 4,000--not as an 
add-on to some other kind of action here but to give respect and 
dignity and honor to these individuals and do so by having a rollcall 
vote to send a special message to their families and friends in their 
communities that we honor their service. Why is it that we cannot get 
an agreement on that?

The good Senator--I will not insult his intelligence. I read the 
resolution, and it may be 8 lines long. It is honoring these 
extraordinary men and women and in tribute to their valor. Why is it 
that we cannot have a time when we could bring the membership together 
to honor those names? What is the possible problem? Where is the 
Republican leader? Can he explain to the American people why we cannot 
have that? Usually, if they are going to object, at least they indicate 
why. Why don't they take the floor? Why can't they give an explanation 
to the American people? Look at these pages. On each one of these pages 
is 50 names. Look at these pages. There are 50 names on each and every 
one of them with their home addresses. We ought to be able to take a 
few moments for those who want to speak to be able to express 
themselves and pass this resolution and include it in the Record at 
this time, where we have paused as a Nation out of respect for the loss 
of some 4,000 Americans.

I thank the majority leader for all he has done. Since I have the 
floor, I will just take a few moments here, obviously, before the 
Senator from Illinois, whose amendment is pending. I will withhold at 
any time he thinks he can get action.

Mr. President, this is the resolution we will be offering. It honors 
the sacrifice of the members of the Armed Forces who were killed in 
Iraq and Afghanistan:




 Whereas 4,009 members of the United States Armed Forces 


 have lost their lives in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom 


 and 487 members of the United States Armed Forces have lost 


 their lives in support of Operation Enduring Freedom;



 Whereas we honor the ultimate sacrifice that these men and 


 women made for our country;



 Whereas the sacrifices of the fallen are in keeping with 


 the highest traditions of the United States Army, Navy, 


 Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard;



 Whereas, as their families and loved ones have sacrificed 


 as well, we honor them in commemorating the memory of those 


 that lost their lives;



 Whereas the following 4,009 members--


It starts off listing the fallen members of the Armed Forces.