---
---

# SSI EXTENSION FOR ELDERLY AND DISABLED REFUGEES ACT
## `1f4d7bcbf1178fad2e7540d11bdf2165`
`Mr. SMITH — 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. SMITH. Mr. President, I rise to extend my appreciation that the 
Senate will pass the ''SSI Extension for Elderly and Disabled Refugees 
Act.'' I thank Chairman Baucus and Senator Grassley for their help in 
moving this important legislation to the President. This is a bill that 
I introduced in the Senate with Senator Kohl and it will make a 
significant impact in helping our most vulnerable asylees and refugees. 
I also want to thank Senator Specter for his tremendous support of this 
bill and help in negotiating a final package. The passage of this bill 
sends a message that we have not and will not turn our back on those 
whom we have welcomed to our country.

As many of you may know, Congress modified the Supplemental Security


Income--SSI--program to include a 7-year time limit on the receipt of 
benefits for refugees and asylees. To allow adequate time for asylees 
and refugees to become naturalized citizens, Congress provided the 7-
year time limit before the expiration of SSI benefits. Unfortunately, 
the naturalization process often takes longer than 7 years. Applicants 
are required to live in the United States for a minimum of 5 years 
prior to applying for citizenship. In addition to that time period, 
their application process often can take 3 or more years before there 
is resolution.

Because of this time delay, many individuals are trapped in the 
system and faced with the loss of their SSI benefits. In fact, by the 
end of 2008 more than 30,000 elderly and disabled refugees will have 
lost their benefits and more than 19,000 are projected to lose their 
benefits in the coming years.

Many of these individuals are elderly refugees who fled persecution 
or torture in their home countries. They include Jewish refugees 
fleeing religious persecution in the former Soviet Union, Iraqi Kurds 
fleeing the Saddam Hussein regime, Cubans and Hmong people from the 
highlands of Laos who served on the side of the United States military 
during the Vietnam War. They are elderly and unable to work, and have 
become reliant on their SSI benefits as their primary income. To 
penalize them because of delays encountered through the bureaucratic 
process seems unjust and inappropriate.

The administration, in its fiscal year 2009 budget, acknowledged the 
necessity of correcting this problem by dedicating funding to extend 
refugee eligibility for SSI beyond the 7-year limit. This legislation 
builds upon those efforts by allowing an additional 2 years of benefits 
for elderly and disabled refugees, asylees, and other qualified 
humanitarian immigrants, including those whose benefits have expired in 
the recent past.

The Senate version requires that eligible individuals demonstrate 
that they are moving toward citizenship in order to gain the additional 
2-year extension of benefits. While the Act provides flexibility to the 
Social Security Administration--SSA--and the Department of Homeland 
Security--DHS--in developing a procedure whereby they can verify an 
applicant's eligibility for the extension of benefits, it is our intent 
that whatever procedure SSA and DHS establish, it does not impose any 
undue burdens or barriers on the benefactors of this Act.

Additionally, the bill allows benefits to be extended for a third 
year for those refugees who are awaiting a decision on a pending 
naturalization application. These policies are limited to 2011 and are 
completely offset in cost by a provision that will allow the Department 
of Labor to recapture federal funds that are the result of unemployment 
insurance fraud.

I again thank my colleagues for their support of this bill and for 
its passage.