---
---

# None
## `1f4e236846460f7b2ea1335d6b9013a8`
`Mr. LAMBORN — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. LAMBORN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize 100th 
anniversary of U.S. Army Reserve. As we celebrate the 100th anniversary 
of the United States Army Reserve, we are afforded the opportunity to 
recognize the honorable men and women who currently serve and those who 
have served our Nation in the past.

The origins of the Army Reserve began in 1908 when Congress 
established a group of 360 doctors, the Medical Reserve Corps, to 
provide our Nation with a band of trained medical officers during a 
time of war. From that moment forward, the Army Reserve has played a 
critical role in securing the safety of our troops and the advancement 
of our military's missions during World War I, World War II, Korea, 
Vietnam, Persian Gulf, the Iraq war, the global war on Jihadist terror, 
and other tumultuous times in our Nation's history.

More than 190,000 soldiers have been mobilized to support the war in 
Iraq and the war in Afghanistan. Currently, there are more than 26,000 
soldiers serving on active duty in support of military operations.

Today, Army Reserve soldiers continue to answer their patriotic call 
of duty in a variety of ways these include defending our Nation against 
terrorist attacks, providing humanitarian support and relief operations 
during national disasters, providing combat service support to 
warfighting brigade combat teams, and offering unparalleled support to 
countries around the world as they strive to establish the freedom we 
often take for granted. The list goes on, and so does the Army 
Reserve's devotion to our Nation.

Army Reserve soldiers, or citizen soldiers, make up more than half 
the Army's combat support, and a quarter of its mobilization base 
expansion capability. The assistance they provide includes combat 
support, combat service


support, peacekeeping, nation-building, and civil support, and is 
instrumental in the progress that our military makes each day.

The Army Reserve forms the backbone of our Nation's military. During 
today's ceremony commemorating the U.S. Army Reserve's 100th 
anniversary, two young men from the Colorado's Fifth District, Sergeant 
Erice J. Dwelle and Sergeant Otto Earl Searan Jr., reenlisted to once 
again serve our Nation. It is an honor to recognize the 100th 
anniversary of the Army Reserve today. I want to thank every single 
Army Reserve soldier, both past and present, for the patriotism they 
have displayed through the years and down to today.
