---
---

# None
## `1f5013cc6f996d0b236108f5ecaadd19`
`Mrs. WILSON of New Mexico — 25 September 2007`

---


Mrs. WILSON of New Mexico. And one of the ironies here is that 
because of this law, if we're trying to listen to a foreigner in a 
foreign country, and we take tremendous risks with our members of the 
intelligence community and collect that communication overseas, maybe 
at high risk, may not work, and we collect that communication overseas, 
you don't have to ask permission from anybody in the American 
judiciary. You're out there trying to do your job as a military officer 
or a civilian in the intelligence agencies, trying to steal secrets, 
listen to communications overseas.

But America dominates telecommunications. It used to be that if 
somebody from northern Spain was calling southern Spain, the route of 
that communication went directly from northern Spain to southern Spain. 
Now, because of global telecommunications networks, that call will go 
on the least restrictive, fastest path. And these efficiencies are 
running all of the time, and that call from northern Spain to southern 
Spain could route all the way around the world, through the United 
States, through whatever the system figures is the best, fastest path. 
So we may have situations where somebody in a foreign country is 
talking to somebody else in the same foreign country, and the 
communication might be routed through the United States.

And yet just because you touch, when you touch a wire in the United 
States, under the old law, you had to get a warrant from a court, even 
if you're listening to a foreigner in a foreign country, even if there 
are U.S. military forces in that country hunting down insurgents who 
are trying to kill Americans. It just doesn't make any sense at all.

And as one military officer said recently in Iraq, this doesn't make 
any sense. If I see an insurgent on the telephone, I can shoot him, but 
I can't listen to him. That was the problem with the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act that we sought to get fixed.