---
---

# REQUIRING A REPORT SETTING FORTH THE GLOBAL STRATEGY OF THE UNITED  STATES TO COMBAT AND DEFEAT AL QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATES--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `1f546f2d40c5ab076429406b49fe2865`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, first, I wish to say how proud I am to 
be on the floor with my three colleagues who are sponsoring this, with 
Senator Webb as the lead sponsor on this very important legislation. 
Senator Warner and I kind of outrank the others in terms of when it is 
that we served. I point out that we have two commissioned officers here 
and we have two noncommissioned officers. Senator Hagel, I think, 
outranked me. I was a corporal.

I am so pleased to be here with my colleagues. I got an undeserved 
credit because it was said I was a combat veteran. Well, I served in 
the combat theater, and my job was to climb telephone poles while the 
bombing was going on in Belgium. I would not say there were the same 
dangers as someone on the line, but people got hurt and worse doing 
what I was doing. But I want to clear the record because I didn't carry 
a rifle. I carried a carbine, which is a lot smaller weapon, and, 
fortunately, I didn't have a chance to fire it. But it wasn't fired at 
me either.

I look at what we are doing here and think about what it means to 
those who are serving and what it meant to me in my life. My parents 
were brought to America when they were infants, but they were people 
who would be classified as blue-collar people--no education but wanted 
to work hard. Honesty was constantly preached: Be mindful of your 
responsibility to others, do whatever you can, work as hard as you can.

When I got out of high school, I got a job loading milk trucks. 
Because going to war was imminent, I enlisted when I was 18. I served 
with 16 million other people in uniform at that time.

We used to talk about college around the dinner table, when we had 
dinner together, and my parents would say you have to get an education. 
My father took me into the mill he worked in when I was 12 years old. 
He said: I want you to see what it is like. It was a textile factory in 
Paterson, NJ, an industrial city. As we walked in the building, he 
said: Do you hear the noise? The whole building would vibrate. And I 
said: Yes, Dad. And he took me up to the machine he operated. It was a 
big old machine with a wheel that converted fibers into fabric. He 
said: You see how dirty it is here? Yes, Dad. He said: Do you see how 
dark it is? Yes, Dad. And he took my hand and he rubbed it across the 
silk fibers he was working on, and it left a film. He said: You see 
that? That is bad for you.

My father, when he did that with me, was 37 years old. Six years 
later, he was dead. Cancer that developed occupationally. My 
grandfather worked in the same place. And not unlike those who worked 
in the coal mine or some other place, my grandfather was 56 when he 
died.

So for me, being in the military was a responsibility that I 
willingly took on. My friends, my neighbors, we all did it. The future 
was not particularly bright. But then, when all of that was finished, I 
had a chance to go to a university. And Senator Warner, with his usual 
grace, he said that you could go to any school you wanted. I don't know 
that it wasn't just the recognition that we needed financial help, but 
I think there might have been a little give also on the standards that 
you had to meet. I don't know that in today's world we would have fared 
quite as well. I was lucky enough to go to Columbia University. They 
welcomed me. And I stood there in amazement when I graduated because 
none other than GEN Dwight Eisenhower handed me my diploma. He was then 
the President of Columbia University. I was a little upset that he 
didn't recognize me. We had both served in Europe. I didn't understand 
why he didn't say: Hello, Frank.

It was exciting to be in a university--exciting to know that somehow 
or other I was not only going to be able to help myself, I was going to 
be able to help my widowed mother and my kid sister and be something 
different than still loading milk trucks in Clifton, NJ. I was excited 
because not only did I learn subjects--statistics and finance and the 
kinds of things one learns at business school, in particular--but also 
I learned there was a different way of life; that there was something 
you could do besides standing with my folks when they had to buy a 
store because the mills closed. I learned you didn't have to live in 
cramped quarters and that maybe there was something else out there you 
could do.

So when I look at what we are talking about today, I am particularly 
motivated to see that with the leadership of Senator Webb and with the 
help of the three of us, that we get this legislation through. We know 
when there is a debate here and it gets to veterans'


support, usually that quiets the troubled waters and we talk to one 
another, almost civilly at times, and we gather support from one 
another and are encouraged. We might feel differently about which 
programs ought to get more funding, but we are all concerned about the 
medical care, the post-service conditions that come up like post-
traumatic stress disorder. And when we read stories about service 
people who get so distraught that they destroy their lives, that is 
often a sign of the kind of stress and the kind of trauma that people 
have been left with after they serve. So when we look at this 
legislation's opportunity, it is consistent with our need to show our 
respect and gratitude to the people who serve and who served in a war 
that is far longer and more vicious than anyone ever dreamed it might 
be.

Because in previous wars, and the war that Senator Warner and I 
served in, it was not the case that your enemy wanted to give their 
life and thusly would not be frightened off by anything you do. Their 
principle was to destroy the enemy. In the current war, the enemy is 
willing to destroy itself to destroy us. So the kind of violence that 
has been exhibited in this war is different than in any other war. 
Vietnam was the place where it was learned that people would die for a 
cause, but it was not like this war where people want to die. So 
conditions are different.

So here it is, very simply put: There are scholarship assistance 
programs like the Montgomery bill which provides 38,000 dollars' worth 
of support for education, for the cost of maintaining one's self, as 
well as room and board. But the average cost of a public education 
today is $51,000.

Well, it still is significant when someone graduates college with 
huge debt, and typically they are relatively young, wanting to start a 
family, wanting to get going in life. So it is simple math. Many of our 
veterans just cannot make up the difference and thusly are denied a 
college education. So this has real consequences.

People with a college degree earn nearly double the salary of those 
who do not have one. We have got to close the gap between the current 
cost of college and the amount that the GI bill pays for. Remember, 
America built something that was called and supported as the ''greatest 
generation.'' Now, why, with all the technology, with all of the 
richness this country has, with all of the talent this country has, can 
we not create another ''greatest generation''? We should move on that. 
There is only one way to get there, and that is to provide the ladder 
up to that success. You have got to take the first step. The first step 
is to make sure you get as much education as your mind and your body 
and your will can handle.

So when we look at what we owe to or can do for these veterans, to 
me, this is the ideal thing. I would hope that whatever party, however 
high the seniority is, that we all get together on this one and say: 
Veterans, we appreciate those of you who served, who left your 
families, in service. I was at Fort Dix, a major base in the State of 
New Jersey, for people who were going to deploy or be deployed back in 
Iraq. Many of them have served months already. These were not people 
who were living on a base where there was a culture to accompany their 
families, where there was a clinic, where there were schools, where 
there were libraries. They were in towns, they were paying their 
expenses, they have mortgages to deal with.

This is a time to say: We owe you something. We owe you something 
big. We are going to make it up to you. I encourage all of my 
colleagues to support this legislation. Join us in giving something 
back to our veterans that really stands out, that shows a lasting bit 
of gratitude for the valiant service that all of them have put in to 
serve their country.

I congratulate my colleagues for their effort, and Senator Webb for 
his leadership. And I hope we will see success.













 Honoring our Armed Forces








petty officer third class jeffrey l. wiener
