# NO PLAN FROM DEMOCRATS
## `1f5caa1861d0d23c2515f7c4d55059ba`
`Ms. FOXX — 31 January 2007`

---


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle for their plan for winning the war on terror and for 
the current situation in Iraq. The only things that we have heard from 
Democrats has been criticism.

I also want to point out an article in today's Wall Street Journal 
and insert the entire article in the Record. The article is entitled, 
''Progress in Baghdad''; and it says, Capitol Hill has probably been 
too busy running for political cover to notice, but the last few days 
in Iraq have actually featured good news, as the government seems to be 
making some progress on key political and security issues.

And it ends with, the Bush administration has itself made many 
mistakes trying to micromanage Iraq's political development, but it now 
seems to understand that it is fated to deal with the Shiite-led 
government it has. Congressmen who are sincere in wanting to take the 
Iraq issue off the table in 2008 could help by showing a similar 
combination of resolve and humility.

I think we need the resolve and humility to say that we are there for 
victory and that failure is not an option.











 [From the Wall Street Journal]














Progress in Baghdad




 Capitol Hill has probably been too busy running for 


 political cover to notice. But the last few days in Iraq have 


 actually featured good news, as the government seems to be 


 making some progress on key political and security issues.



 One step forward is that Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has 


 won parliamentary backing for his Baghdad security plan. This 


 means the elected representatives of Iraq's Shiites, Sunnis 


 and Kurds remain capable of compromise and are willing to 


 give the new strategy a chance to work.



 There's also evidence that the Baghdad plan is having an 


 effect. Yes, al Qaeda bombs targeted the Shiite Ashoura 


 holiday as expected. But there are also widespread reports of 


 Sunni jihadists fleeing the capital in anticipation of a 


 crackdown. Prime Minister Maliki has already started moving 


 against Shiite militias, which might explain an apparent drop 


 in sectarian violence. No one should get overconfident, but 


 clearly the bad guys are taking the joint U.S.-Iraqi effort 


 to pacify the capital seriously. Meanwhile, the weekend saw 


 an encouraging performance by the Iraqi security forces who 


 took control of the Najaf area only about a month ago. Acting 


 on their own intelligence, Iraqi police




 and a battalion from the Eighth Army Division confronted a 


 radical Shiite sect calling themselves the Soldiers of Heaven 


 who had reportedly planned to assassinate mainstream Shiite 


 clerics, including the moderate Grand Ayatollah Ali Sistani.



 Some observers are trying to spin this battle as a defeat 


 for the government, because the first Iraqi units on the 


 scene had to call for reinforcements and for American air 


 power. But the fact that Iraqi forces were able to pre-empt 


 the attack on Najaf before it began, and that everyone 


 involved was able to coordinate the operation and soundly 


 defeat the enemy makes it sound like a success to us. 


 Hundreds of the insurgents were killed, compared to a handful 


 of Iraqi and U.S. troops. This may well be a model for how 


 U.S. troops might play a supporting role down the road--


 assuming Washington gives them a chance to get Baghdad under 


 control first.



 For the moment at least, Iraq seems to be inching in the 


 right direction. After a week of Western lamentations about 


 the gracelessness of the Saddam hanging, it became clear that 


 the primary effect of the execution was to enhance Prime 


 Minister Maliki's stature in Iraq. Mr. Maliki, in turn, is 


 using that political capital. The last thing he needs is to 


 have his efforts undermined by votes of no-confidence in 


 Washington--or meddling by Congressmen with ''benchmarks'' 


 who pretend to know better than he does how to deal with the 


 most difficult issues, such as how best to marginalize 


 Moqtada al-Sadr.



 The Bush Administration has itself made many mistakes 


 trying to micromanage Iraq's political development, but it 


 now seems to understand that it is fated to deal with the 


 Shiite-led government it has. Congressmen who are sincere in 


 wanting to take the Iraq issue off the table in 2008 could 


 help by showing a similar combination of resolve and 


 humility.



 Let's unite.
