---
---

# THE NEW DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS
## `1f637f68db03d368cf80f22019163662`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. I thank the gentleman.

I would like to follow up on something to which you alluded because I 
think it's really important. This Congress has not only taken on a lot 
of new initiatives and has tried to deal with substantial problems that 
face this country and our people, but it has also made up for a lot of 
lost ground and a lot of inactivity in prior Congresses. And we hate to 
sound partisan around here, and I know the American people don't want 
us to be partisan, they want us to work together, and I think we have 
tried to work together and to reach out, but the fact remains that over 
the last 6 years the Congress did not do a lot of the things that it 
was supposed to do. We've seen the impact in a lot of ways. We've seen 
the impact on our budget, where we have increased the Federal debt, the 
national debt by $3 trillion, 50 percent over the last 6 years. That's 
because the previous Congresses were not doing their fiscal accounting 
the right way.



We've seen time after time, program after program, you mentioned 
veterans. We also had situations with education. We've had situations 
with health care where basic research that we were supposed to be 
funding has been cut. A lot of human services have been cut or zeroed 
out in past budgets. So we've not only had to take new initiatives, but 
we've had to make up for a lot of lost ground and programs that have 
affected a lot of Americans adversely. So we've had a lot to do.

And another area we've had a lot to do, and this is, again, something 
you alluded to, my colleague from Minnesota has alluded to, is that 
we've had to finally provide the accountability for many of the 
operations of government which have basically gone unsupervised for the 
last 6 years. We've seen it time after time after time. We've seen it 
in the reconstruction effort in Iraq. We've seen it in cases of fraud 
and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid situations. We've seen it in the 
enforcement of coal mine safety rules. We've seen it in environmental 
regulations. Across the entire spectrum of government we have seen time 
after time where problems in the operation of government have basically 
gone unsupervised and unaccounted for.



We have taken steps to do that. I hope that the American people all 
have the occasion, for instance, to read the new Rolling Stone where 
there is an article about all of the subcontracting, the private 
contracting in Iraq, and the billions and billions of dollars which 
have been lost or essentially stolen by fraudulent activities by 
contractors in no-bid contracts and in sweetheart contracts given to 
friends of the administration. Nobody was looking at these deals until 
this Congress decided to take action and look at them. And now we have 
tried to implement new contracting laws and new supervision so that the 
taxpayers' dollars are accounted for. This is what the Congress is 
supposed to do. This is what we're doing.

Again, it comes to me as an incredible affront for the President of 
the United States to stand halfway around the world and say to the 
world that this Congress is not doing what it should be doing and that 
it is not functioning as effectively as the most dysfunctional 
parliament in the world, which is the Iraqi Parliament. I can't imagine 
what the American people would say if Speaker Pelosi or my colleague 
from Minnesota, or any one of our Members went to Australia or went to 
Iraq and compared President Bush unfavorably to Mr. Maliki. There would 
be an outcry unheard like anything in this country. And yet the 
President does it in Australia and criticizes this Congress. I hope the 
American people respond with the same degree of outrage which I think 
they would, and probably justifiably, if we were out there comparing 
him to Prime Minister Maliki.

I would like to expand on that a little bit, just for the sake of 
having fun, since the President likes to be cute and have fun when he 
makes these statements. Since he was so interested in the Iraqi 
Parliament, let's talk about what the Iraqi Parliament has done with 
regard to some of the benchmarks that they were supposed to make 
progress on. We're going to get a report from General Petraeus in a few 
days. But the Government Accountability Office has already given us a 
report on the progress of the Iraqi Parliament, the one that Mr. Bush 
seems to appreciate so much.

One of the benchmarks, enacting and implementing legislation on de-
Baathification, nothing done. Laws were drafted, not passed. Enacting 
and implementing legislation to ensure the equitable distribution of 
hydrocarbon resources of the people of Iraq, none being considered by 
the Parliament. Enacting and implementing legislation on procedures to 
form semiautonomous regions, that one they did enact a law. Enacting 
and implementing legislation establishing an Independent High Electoral 
Commission, provincial elections law, provincial council authorities, 
and a date for provincial elections supporting laws, not enacted. 
Enacting and implementing legislation addressing amnesty, no law 
drafted. Enacting and implementing legislation establishing a strong 
militia disarmament program to ensure that such security forces are 
accountable only to the central government and loyal to the 
constitution of Iraq, no laws drafted. Nothing done.

So this is the great Iraqi Parliament that President Bush seems to 
appreciate when he is standing halfway across the world. The fact of 
the matter is, this Congress has acted. It has acted in so many areas 
that I am so proud to speak of and that my colleague has done such an 
excellent job of enumerating. But this Congress continues to work in 
education, in health care, in the environmental issues, and, yes, in 
Veterans Affairs, for the great heroes of our country to whom we made a 
critical promise when they decided to give their service. We had made a 
promise to them, and we haven't been keeping it. This Congress is going 
to make sure that we do keep it, even though prior Congresses and this 
administration is not.

So again, I am very proud of the record that this Congress has 
assembled over the last 8 months. I am, again, ashamed of the President 
of the United States for what he said in Australia. But I hope he will 
come back. I hope he will realize that his legacy is going to depend, 
to a certain extent, on how he reaches out to us and deals with us over 
the next 15 months.

The Constitution begins with article 1, which vests the legislative 
authority in this country in this body, not in him. Now, he doesn't 
seem to have read the Constitution. With 700 or so signing statements 
in which he said he is basically going to ignore what this Congress 
does with executive orders, vetoes, and virtually every other 
parliamentary procedure or technical procedure he can use to invalidate 
the work of this Congress, I think basically he has a lot to answer 
for, both to the American people and to us. The Constitution vests the 
legislative authority in this body. We are doing our job. We will 
continue to do our job.

I ask the President and the Republicans on the other side of the 
aisle and in the other body to recognize that this is our job. We are 
the ones mentioned by article 1. We are mentioned first in the 
establishment of this government, and I think we will continue to act 
first in the interests of the American people.