---
---

# COMMEMORATING 20TH ANNIVERSARY OF ADA AND RECOGNIZING SPEAKER PRO  TEMPORE LANGEVIN
## `1f6b90cfcf47057c424470a46e312484`
`Mr. HOYER — 26 July 2010`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the Speaker for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, Jim Langevin of Rhode Island, thank you. Thank you for 
the courage that you have shown.

I don't know how many of you know Jim Langevin's story. Involved in 
the police boys club, 16 years of age, at a police station in Rhode 
Island. Someone was cleaning his gun. It went off by mistake, 
accidentally, ricocheted off the wall, and went into Mr. Langevin's 
spine. At 16 years of age, he was rendered unable to walk.

Some people could have given up. Some people could have lamented that 
accident which rendered them unable to walk and have limited mobility. 
Jim Langevin, of course, as we all see, did not do that. Jim Langevin 
decided that he was going to succeed and persevere and overcome. And 
Jim Langevin sits in the chair today presiding over the people's House.

Think of what an extraordinary example that is to every person of 
whatever age who has a mobility impairment for whatever reasons, 
injured in Iraq, Afghanistan, or someplace at the point of the spear, 
comes back to this country.

My friend Walt Minnick and Mike Simpson just introduced me to a young 
fellow who in May was injured in Afghanistan and lost both his legs. 
What an example Jim Langevin must be to him and to millions of others 
who are similarly situated.

The promise of the Americans with Disabilities Act in July of 1990 
was that we would open up the doors of opportunity in a country that 
prides itself on being the land of opportunity. As I have said a number 
of times this week, Thomas Jefferson indicated that the pursuit of 
happiness was a God-given right. But Thomas Jefferson, in his time, had 
a limited view. And we have found, in generation after generation, that 
we had to perfect that view.

African Americans, of course, were not given the land of 
opportunity's opportunities. We fought a Civil War, and we adopted the 
13th and 14th and 15th Amendments. Notwithstanding that, however, we 
did not, at that point in time, realize the full scope of the 
opportunity that we provided in that Declaration of Independence and, 
theoretically, in that beloved document of ours, the pride of our 
country, the United States Constitution.

So again we perfected it, and in the early part of the last century 
we said to those who are women in this body and around the country, no, 
what we really should have said is men and women are created equal and 
endowed by their Creator, and we want to include you and give you the 
right to vote. It's almost amazing that 90 years ago, or some 100 years 
ago that women didn't have the right to vote in this country. And we 
perfected our country by amending our Constitution to expand, further, 
the opportunities.

And then in 1964 and 1965 and 1957 and further, we passed acts which 
have said, look, we said that African Americans were equal, but we 
still see discrimination. And Martin Luther King, Jr., called our 
attention to the fact that this was not yet a perfect Union and that 
work needed to be done.

And 25 years after the 1965 act, we saw a large group of people--we 
then said 45 million; we now use the figure 50 million people--who have 
a disability, and because of that disability are excluded, are shut 
out, are not welcomed in, are not given what this lift is, a reasonable 
accommodation in the Americans with Disabilities Act. It simply says 
there are some things we can do to enhance somebody who is challenged 
with a disability to fully participate. We know that.

Ed Markey is right next to me. We are going to pass a bill that we 
know that technology now is providing greater access to people who 
can't hear, and indeed to people who can't see, to fully participate in 
our society.


Jim Langevin is the example of the realization of the promise of the 
July 26, 1990, signing by George Herbert Walker Bush that said that 
we're going to knock down the walls of discrimination that confront the 
disabled. But what we were talking about was not the disability. We 
were talking about the discrimination. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court 
missed that. But fortunately for our country and those with 
disabilities, the Congress did not.

In every step of the way, this has been a bipartisan effort, led by a 
Republican President, made better by another Republican President, his 
son, George W. Bush. Jim Sensenbrenner. But let me mention someone that 
many of you may not know who are recently here. Steve Bartlett, 
Congressman from Texas, became the mayor of Dallas, worked with me 
almost every day for almost a full year in making sure that when we 
adopted the Americans with Disabilities Act it would be workable, 
affordable, and effective.

Jim Langevin, you are an example of that effectiveness. So I thank 
you, as I said at the beginning, because you are a representative of 
literally millions of Americans who had the courage, the tenacity, and 
the vision to come to Washington or to come to town meetings, to see 
people in their districts and talk to them about the challenges that 
they confronted.

So this is a great day to recognize what 20 years ago we, who had the 
privilege of being here, working with President George Herbert Walker 
Bush, had the opportunity to do.

The young man to which I referred was just brought in--you are his 
Congressman, or is Mike? In any event, Mike and Walt Minnick represent 
this young man.

Jim Sensenbrenner and I and Jim Langevin were with the President a 
little earlier today. And I took out my cell phone and I punched ''D'' 
on my phone, and I dialed the phone and I said, ''Hello, Bob,'' because 
Senator Dole was a critical person in passing this legislation. I 
passed the phone to President Obama, and President Obama said, ''We're 
keeping the faith. What you wrought, we're going to continue to make 
even better.''



Thank you, Jim Langevin. Thank all of those who have a disability who 
made this happen. God bless you.