---
---

# None
## `1f73f5dd3de5aa6c101817bc81c16c89`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so much, Mr. Speaker; and it is an 
honor to come to the floor once again. My good colleagues that have, we 
come to the floor working on behalf of the 30-Something Working Group; 
and I can just attest that it's just great to be an American and have 
an opportunity to share our thoughts and ideas and concerns.

As you know, the 30-Something Working Group, we come to the floor to 
shed light on the action of the House and to talk about this new 
direction that we fought so hard for last November, especially on the 
Democratic side of the aisle, to move this country in a new direction 
and exactly what the American people have called for. So we're excited.

I'm glad to have Mr. Altmire and also Mr. Murphy here with me 
tonight. And I know that Mr. Murphy has been pulling almost a double 
duty here. I understand he was Acting Speaker a little earlier tonight.

And I had the opportunity, while you were in the Chair, to join 
Speaker Pelosi celebrating her 20th year of public service, 20 years 
here in the House. There were a number of great Speakers that were 
there, honored her family for allowing her to serve this great country 
of ours, and also recognizing the fact that she's history as being the 
first female Speaker. But also there were people like Patti LaBelle 
there, and just a really star-studded event. She deserves that honor 
and that appreciation; and constituents also, I'm pretty sure, are 
pretty happy and proud. All Americans are.

With that, I, of course, we, Mr. Speaker, we and mainly as of late, 
talking about Iraq, and as we speak


here on the floor, there's a major debate going on just across the hall 
in the Senate dealing with comprehensive immigration reform. Just in 
the last 6 months, we have done so much and we've talked about so much 
and we've taken action on so many different issues; and I know that Mr. 
Murphy and Mr. Altmire and I will be addressing many of those issues 
tonight.

This is our first time since the Memorial Day break, and I had a 
wonderful opportunity to attend a NATO conference, parliamentary, that 
the Speaker appointed me and I think 12 other Members of the House, 
bipartisan, spent some time over in Portugal meeting with some of our 
European Union partners there, and had the opportunity to go to Tunisia 
to honor those World War II veterans that are, or honor those that paid 
the ultimate sacrifice. It's the only U.S. cemetery on the continent of 
Africa; and it was so very, very special and touching, just as an 
American and as a Member of Congress, to go there and lay a wreath on 
behalf of those that paid the ultimate sacrifice.

And then having, and still having, Mr. Speaker, the opportunity to 
come back here and join with my family, who's here in Washington, go 
down to the World War II Memorial, which had Tunisia and all of the 
different countries where World War II, we had fighting and men and 
women lost their lives, to make that connection, all in a 5-day span, 
is something great as an American.



I just want to share that with the Members of the House. And we know 
that one of our soldiers just today, one of the soldiers who was found 
in Iraq was laid to rest at Arlington Cemetery, and we know that there 
are two that are still missing of the recent ones that were missing 
from the IED that exploded recently in Iraq. So we paid honor to those 
that have paid the ultimate sacrifice and their families and also to 
those veterans that served beside them. And it was such a great week, 
and I know that many of the Members had an opportunity to go back to 
their districts to celebrate the life of those that paid the ultimate 
sacrifice.

With that, Mr. Murphy, I would like to yield to you, sir.