---
---

# None
## `1f766b5d1b68d4ce0b879bac534ea019`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I rise to offer an amendment with the 
majority leader, Senator Reid, and Senators Leahy, Dodd, Boxer, 
Kennedy, Kerry, Harkin, Whitehouse, Wyden, Durbin, Schumer, Obama, 
Sanders, Menendez, Lautenberg, and Brown to H.R. 2764, the fiscal year 
2008 Omnibus appropriations bill.

The amendment is one I have offered before. I will not hesitate, if I 
must, to offer it again and again and again.

The 17 cosponsors is the greatest number we have ever had for this 
amendment.

It requires the President to begin safely redeploying U.S. troops 
from Iraq within 90 days of enactment, and requires redeployment be 
completed within 9 months. At that point, with the bulk of our troops 
safely out of Iraq, funding for the war would be ended, with four 
narrow exceptions: providing security for U.S. Government personnel and 
infrastructure, training the Iraqi security forces, providing training 
and equipment to U.S. service men and women to ensure their safety and 
security, and conducting targeted operations limited in duration and 
scope against members of al-Qaida and others affiliated with 
international terrorist organizations.

Some of my colleagues complain that we spent too much time debating 
Iraq this year. They would rather talk about other issues. Well, we 
have a lot of important priorities, but nothing is more important to me 
or my constituents than ending this disastrous war.

As I do every year, I held a town hall meeting in every county in 
Wisconsin this year. That is 72 meetings for those of you who are not 
from the Badger State. I heard a lot from my constituents at the 
meetings about health care and education. But the No. 1 issue I heard 
about was foreign affairs, particularly the war in Iraq.

But the No. 1 issue I heard about was foreign affairs, particularly 
the war in Iraq. Let me tell you--they weren't asking why Congress is 
spending so much time on this issue. They weren't asking us to give the 
President more time for his so-called surge. Like Americans all across 
the country, they want an end to this war, and they want to know what 
is stopping us.

The Senate needs to address the concerns and demands of our 
constituents, who more than a year ago voted for a change in 
congressional leadership in large measure because of the debacle in 
Iraq. But we have yet to follow through and end this misguided war, 
before more Americans are injured and killed. And we are about to 
adjourn for the year and let the war drag on even longer.

We hear a lot from supporters of the President that violence in Iraq 
is down right now, and therefore we are on the path to victory. That 
argument would be a lot more convincing if the administration had a 
viable strategy for success. The surge may buy time, but as long as 
there is no political solution to Iraq's problems, we are just 
postponing the inevitable resurgence in violence, and our brave troops 
will continue bearing the brunt of it.

That is not a strategy for success. It is not even a strategy. It is 
a way of pushing this problem off to the next President and the next 
Congress, while our troops put their lives on the line, and our 
constituents foot the bill. Or, I should say, our constituents' 
children and grandchildren foot the bill, because we can't even be 
bothered to figure out a way to pay for the war. We are just handing 
the tab to future generations, sticking them with hundreds of billions 
of dollars of more deficit spending.

I am certainly pleased that violence in Iraq has declined in the last 
few months. Once again, our troops have showed they excel in any 
challenge with which they are tasked. This doesn't change the fact, 
however, that this year was the bloodiest year for Americans since the 
war began, and there are still a few weeks to go in 2007.


Indeed, let us remember that nearly 4,000 Americans have died, and 
almost 30,000 have been wounded in a war that has no clear strategy and 
no end in sight. While the President is bringing home a token number of 
troops, over 160,000 remain as the war drags on into its fifth year. 
What are we supposed to tell them, and their families, to wait another 
year until a new administration and new Congress finally listen to the 
American people and bring this tragedy to a close?



Mr. President, Iraq appears to be no closer to legitimate political 
reconciliation at the national level than it was before the surge 
began. Equally worrisome is that, as part of the President's plan, we 
appear to be deepening our dependence upon former insurgents and 
militia-infiltrated security forces with questionable loyalties. 
Supporting the sheiks in al Anbar--and elsewhere--may help to reduce 
violence in the near term, but by supporting both sides of a civil war, 
we are risking greater violence down the road. Such tactics are likely 
to undermine the prospects for long-term stability, as they could lead 
to greater political fragmentation and ultimately jeopardize Iraq's 
territorial integrity. Again, without legitimate national 
reconciliation, violence may ebb and flow, but it won't end, and we 
will be no closer to a settlement, no matter how long we keep a 
significant military presence in Iraq. That is not the fault of our 
heroic men and women in uniform. It is the fault of the 
administration's disastrous policies.

There is another dirty secret behind the temporary drop in violence, 
and it relates to the segregation of Baghdad and the neighborhoods on 
its outskirts. With so many Iraqis fleeing their homes in search of 
greater safety and security, large-scale displacement has resulted in 
very different demographics. Previously mixed neighborhoods have ceased 
to exist, thereby curtailing one of the chief sources of sectarian 
violence. This ethnic cleansing is hardly evidence of a successful 
surge. And it sure isn't a hopeful sign for future peace and stability.

When it announced the surge, the administration said its goal was to 
keep a lid on violence to give time and space for reconciliation in 
Iraq. Now that we are no closer to reconciliation, the administration 
is trying, once again, to shift the goalposts. We don't hear as much 
about reconciliation now, and when we do, it sounds very different from 
the national reconciliation that was supposedly our goal--instead we 
hear about ''bottom-up'' reconciliation, whatever that means. All the 
administration can do is stall for time, just as it did in 2004, just 
as it did in 2005, and just as it did in 2006. The slogan may be 
different--''Mission Accomplished,'' ''Stay the Course,'' ''The New Way 
Forward'' and even ''Return on Success,'' but each time we are told we 
are on the right road, if we just keep walking a little longer. Until, 
that is, we reach another dead end, and a new slogan is invented to 
justify heading in a new, but equally futile direction.

As the administration blunders from one mistake to another, brave 
American troops are being injured and killed in Iraq; our military is 
being overstretched; countless billions of dollars are being spent; the 
American people are growing more and more frustrated and outraged; and 
our national security is being undermined.

Instead of focusing on Iraq, we should be focusing on our top 
national security priority--going after al-Qaida and its affiliates 
around the globe. This administration has sadly proven that we cannot 
do both.

Al-Qaida is waging a global campaign, from North Africa--where the 
Algerian Government has blamed an al-Qaida affiliate for two major 
bombings last week--to the border region between Afghanistan and 
Pakistan were, while we have been distracted by Iraq, al-Qaida has 
reconstituted and strengthened itself. There is a price to pay for our 
neglect, and this administration has failed to acknowledge it.

Because of its narrow focus on Iraq, the administration has been so 
distracted it has not adequately addressed the deteriorating security 
conditions in Afghanistan, where the resurgent Taliban--the same 
movement that harbored and supported the terrorist elements that 
attacked our country on 9/11--are gaining ground. Violence may be down 
in Iraq, but it is up significantly in Afghanistan. There were 77 
suicide attacks in Afghanistan in just the first 6 months of 2007, 
which is about twice the number for the same period in 2006 and 26 
times higher than from January to June 2005.

This worrisome escalation of suicide bombings is one of many signs 
that Afghanistan's already tenuous stability is even shakier. And while 
earlier this week the Pentagon confirmed that the U.S. military and its 
NATO partners are reviewing plans for Afghanistan, it is awfully late 
in the game to try to put that country on a solid path to stabilization 
and development. Nonetheless, we have to try because we still have an 
opportunity to finish the job we started 6 years ago in Afghanistan--
eliminating the Taliban and destroying a safe haven for terrorist 
networks that seek to harm us. This opportunity is critical because 
until bin Laden and his reconstituted al-Qaida leadership are killed or 
captured, Afghanistan's future cannot be separated from our own 
national security.


Instead of seeing the big picture--instead of approaching Iraq in the 
context of a comprehensive and global campaign against a ruthless 
enemy--this administration persists with its tragic policy and its 
tragic mistakes. As the President digs in his heels, he is 
simultaneously deepening instability throughout the Middle East, 
undermining the international support and cooperation we need to defeat 
al-Qaida, providing al-Qaida and its allies with a rallying cry and 
recruiting tool, and increasing our vulnerability.


The President's promise to redeploy a few battalions, while leaving 
160,000 troops in Iraq, is not nearly enough. That is why, once again, 
I am offering this amendment with Majority Leader Reid. It is up to us 
here in Congress to reverse what continues to be an intractable policy. 
It is our job to listen to the American people, to save American lives, 
and to protect our Nation's security by redeploying our troops from 
Iraq, because the President will not.


I am not suggesting that we abandon the people of Iraq or that we 
ignore the political impasse there. We cannot ignore the ongoing 
humanitarian crisis that has unfolded within Iraq or the one that 
followed millions of Iraqis as they fled to Jordan and Syria. These 
issues require the attention and constructive engagement of U.S. 
policymakers, key regional players, and the international community. 
They require high-level, consistent, and multilateral engagement and 
cooperation. But Iraqi reconciliation cannot--and will not--be brought 
about by a massive American military engagement.


By enacting Feingold-Reid, we can finally bring our troops out of 
Iraq and focus on what should be our top national security priority--
waging a global campaign against al-Qaida and its affiliates.

Some of my colleagues will oppose this amendment. That is their 
right. But I hope none of them will suggest that Feingold-Reid would 
hurt the troops by denying them equipment or support. There is no truth 
to that argument--none. Passing this legislation would result in our 
troops being safely redeployed within 9 months. At that point, with the 
troops safely out of Iraq, funding for the war would end, with the 
narrow exceptions I mentioned earlier. That is what Congress did in 
1993, when it voted overwhelmingly to bring our military mission in 
Somalia to an end. That is what Congress must do again to terminate the 
President's unending mission in Iraq.

This amendment is almost identical to the version I offered with 
Senator Reid and others to the Defense Department authorization bill. 
And once again, we have specified that nothing in this amendment will 
prevent U.S. troops from receiving the training or equipment they need 
''to ensure, maintain, or improve their safety and security.'' I hope 
we won't be hearing any more spurious arguments about troops on the 
battlefield not getting the supplies they need.

This war is exhausting our country, overstretching our military, and 
tarnishing our credibility. Even with the recent decline in violence, 
the American people know the war is wrong, and they continue to call 
for its end. I urge my colleagues to vote yes on Feingold-Reid so we 
can finally heed their call to action.

I yield the floor.