---
---

# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS MOTION TO PROCEED
## `1f79b247a629f633faa3df77287074ce`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, on tomorrow, we will be voting on 
several items. Two are going to be related to our policy on Iraq. 
Tonight, I wish to express my views on the choices that are before the 
Senate and the American people. I know later in the evening a number of 
colleagues will speak to this issue. I welcome the chance to now 
express my view.

Madam President, I oppose the minority leader's effort to provide a 
$70 billion blank check to President Bush for his failed Iraq policy. I 
will support legislation approved yesterday in the House of 
Representatives requiring the President to begin to bring our combat 
troops out of Iraq in 1 month and complete the withdrawal by December 
of next year. I hope the Senate will support it, and I hope President 
Bush will sign it into law.

Earlier this month, we reached another tragic milestone in Iraq. We 
have lost more Americans in Iraq this year than in any other year. It 
is another painful and somber reminder of the enormous price in 
precious lives the Iraq war continues to impose. It is long past time 
for the administration to change course and end the national nightmare 
the Iraq war has become. Our military has served nobly in Iraq and done 
everything we have asked them to do. But they are caught in a


continuing quagmire. They are policing a civil war and implementing a 
policy that is not worthy of their enormous sacrifice.

The best way to protect our troops and our national security is to 
put the Iraqis on notice that they need to take responsibility for 
their future so that we can bring our troops back home to America 
safely. As long as our military presence in Iraq is open-ended, Iraq's 
leaders are unlikely to make the essential compromises for a political 
solution.

The administration's misguided policy has put our troops in an 
untenable and unwinnable situation. They are being held hostage to 
Iraqi politics, in which sectarian leaders are unable or unwilling to 
make the difficult judgments needed to lift Iraq out of its downward 
spiral.

BG John F. Campbell, deputy commanding general of the 1st Cavalry 
Division in Iraq, spoke with clarity about the shortcomings of Iraq's 
political leaders. He said:




 The ministers, they don't get out. . . . They don't know 


 what the hell is going on on the ground.


Army LTG Mark Fetter said that ''it is painful, very painful'' 
dealing with the obstructionism of Iraqi officials.

About conditions on the ground, Army MG Michael Barbero said:




 . . . it's not as good as it's being reported now.


All of these military deserve credit for their courage in speaking 
the truth. We should commend them for it. These are courageous, brave 
military speaking the truth.

Yet the President continues to promise that success is just around 
the corner. He continues to hold out hope that Iraq's leaders are 
willing and capable of making essential political compromises necessary 
for reconciliation.

The American people know we are spending hundreds of billions of 
dollars on a failed policy that is making America more vulnerable and 
putting our troops at greater risk. The toll is devastating. Nearly 
4,000 American troops have died, tens of thousands of Iraqis have been 
killed or injured, and over 4 million more have been forced to flee 
their homes. Nearly a half trillion dollars has been spent fighting 
this war.

It is wrong for Congress to write a blank check to the President for 
this war. It is obvious that President Bush wants to drag this process 
out month after month so he can hand off his policy to the next 
President. It is time to put the brakes on this madness. It is up to us 
to halt the open-ended commitment of our troops that President Bush has 
been making year after year. We need to tell the Iraqis now that we 
intend to leave and leave soon. Only by doing so can we create the 
urgency that is so clearly necessary for them to end their differences.

We cannot allow the President to drag this process out any longer. 
This war is his responsibility, and it is his responsibility to do all 
he can to end it. It is wrong for him to pass the buck to his successor 
when he knows thousands more of the courageous members of the Armed 
Forces will be wounded or die because of it. Every day this misguided 
war goes on, our service men and women and their families continue to 
shoulder the burden and pay the price.


If this issue were only about the tragedies of the war, there would 
be reason enough to end it. But it has become about so much more. Now 
we are also starting to see the fallout at home as the President 
refuses to deliver the relief our families need.

Earlier this week, the President signed a Defense appropriations bill 
that includes a 10-percent increase in funding compared to last year, 
but he vetoed a bill that includes an increase half that big that would 
fund cancer research, investments in our schools, job training, and 
protection for our workers. That bill included $4.5 billion more than 
the President proposed for education. He said that $4.5 billion more 
for students is too much. Yet he has asked for 35 times that much more 
for the war in Iraq. He wants us to say yes to $158 billion for Iraq 
when he says no to $4.5 billion for American children.

In Iraq, anything goes. The sky is the limit. Billions and billions 
of dollars for Iraq. But here in America, right here at home, a modest 
investment in our school children gets a veto.

The bill included $3 billion to improve the quality of our teachers. 
Those funds would have been used to hire 30,000 more teachers, provide 
high-quality induction and mentoring for 100,000 beginning teachers, 
and provide high-quality professional development for an additional 
200,000 teachers. One week of the failed policy in Iraq is the cost. We 
could do all of this for our teachers for the cost of a single week in 
Iraq, but the President says no.

The bill that he vetoed included $7 billion to provide high-quality 
early education through Head Start. Yesterday, the Senate approved a 
Head Start bill to strengthen the program and make Head Start even 
better. The bill goes a long way in strengthening the quality of the 
personnel, tying Head Start to kindergarten and other education 
programs in the States and consolidating all the various programs in 
the States that are available to children to make them more effective. 
Each of these improvements make an enormous difference in the lives of 
Head Start children. Funds the President vetoed would be used to build 
a basic foundation for learning that will help low-income and minority 
children for the rest of their lives. We can improve this foundation 
for the cost of a little more than 2 weeks in Iraq.

But even as we work in Congress to improve this vital program, the 
President says no. No, no, no to this program, no to the Head Start 
children. We are only reaching half of those who are eligible for the 
program at this time. We have over 4 million poor children under the 
age of 5 in the United States of America; we only reach 1 million of 
them. We all know what a difference early intervention makes for 
children in education. It is critically important for us to continue 
strengthening the academic programs, socio-emotional support, and 
health services delivered through Head Start and yet the President 
continues to say no.

The same misguided rationale applies to other investments in this 
bill. The President's choices cast aside urgently needed research on 
heart disease, diabetes, asthma, infectious disease, and mental health, 
and many other areas that could find cures and bring relief to millions 
of our fellow citizens.

This chart shows $4.9 billion in cancer research which would fund 
over 6,800 grants; diabetes research, pandemic flu, with all the 
dangers we are facing with the potential for a pandemic flu--that is 
necessary--support for the CDC, one of the prime health agencies to 
help protect Americans. It does such a good job in terms of 
immunizations and community health centers, which is a lifeline for 15 
million of our fellow citizens, so many of whom have lost their health 
insurance. And the answer is no to those individuals.

It is true, in terms of American workers, the President rejects 
funding to enforce the labor laws that keep workers safe and to give 
them a level playing field. Instead, the President's veto takes bad 
employers off the hook and puts the safety and lives of American 
workers at risk. The President's choices are devastating to veterans as 
well. Listen to this, Mr. President. Each year nearly 320,000 brave 
servicemen return to civilian life, many coming from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Tens of thousands--here is the chart. These are the 
returning veterans from Afghanistan and Iraq. Tens of thousands of 
reservists and National Guard have lost their benefits and even their 
jobs because they served their country. That is why the appropriations 
bill provided $228 million to help veterans find jobs, obtain training, 
and protect their right to return to former jobs. They are guaranteed 
now under existing law, but what is happening is that law is not being 
implemented. We found that three-quarters of returning veterans do not 
even know about their rights and, in many instances, they are losing 
their jobs, they are losing their overtime pay, and they are losing 
their pensions. That is why today one out of four homeless people in 
the United States is a former veteran. The bill we approved would help 
address this issue, but that was also vetoed.

The bill we will have a chance to vote on tomorrow in the Senate, 
which was approved by the House of Representatives yesterday, also 
takes an important step in reining in the Bush administration's use of 
torture. It is difficult to believe that in this day and age, Congress 
needs to legislate against the use of torture to prevent the President 
of the United States from abusing prisoners. Torture and cruel, 
inhuman, and


degrading treatment are already prohibited by law. Yet, once again, we 
must legislate, not because the conduct we would prohibit is somehow 
unlawful, but because the Bush administration continues to twist and 
distort existing law in its misguided, immoral interrogation practices.

The Nation was shocked by the horrible images from Abu Ghraib prison, 
and America was shamed in the eyes of the world. The administration 
tried to whitewash the episode by blaming it on low-level soldiers, but 
the truth about our use of torture couldn't be concealed. Led by 
President Bush, Vice President Cheney, Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld, 
and Attorney General Gonzales, the administration had set a course that 
undermined fundamental American values in the craven belief that 
torture could somehow make us more secure.

Our interrogators were authorized to shackle prisoners in stress 
positions, induce hypothermia, and use sleep deprivation, extend 
isolation, bombardment with lights and loud music, and even now the 
infamous practice of waterboarding. The Justice Department's Office of 
Legal Counsel--listen to this, Mr. President--the Justice Department's 
Office of Legal Counsel gave its approval to the legality of these 
practices in the morally outrageous Bybee torture memorandum. The Bybee 
torture memorandum was in place for more than 2/1/2/ years until Mr. 
Gonzales appeared before the Judiciary Committee when he wanted to be 
the Attorney General of the United States. He could look over that 
committee and tell that if he had to defend that memorandum, he would 
never make it, and he was right.

What happened? The administration repealed the Bybee torture 
memorandum, and Mr. Gonzales got through the Judiciary Committee, 
although there were more than 40 votes in the Senate against his 
confirmation.

Under the Bybee memorandum, if the President approved the use of 
torture, no one could be prosecuted for breaking our Nation's laws or 
international obligations.

Do my colleagues understand? Under the Bybee memorandum, if you were 
going to prosecute an individual for using torture, you had to 
demonstrate a specific intent that the purpose of the torture in which 
you were involved was not to gain information but just to harm the 
individual. Unless a prosecutor would be able to demonstrate that the 
purpose of torturing an individual was not to gain information, you 
were effectively let off, free.

As the distinguished Dean of Yale Law School, Dr. Koh, said, it was 
the worst piece of legal reasoning he had seen in the history of 
studying laws in the United States and legal opinions.

The administration withdrew the Bybee memo in embarrassment when it 
became public. Indeed, the now-Attorney General Mukasey refused to 
denounce waterboarding as torture.

Only leaders who fail to understand the founding principles of 
America could approve such behavior. Our country needs to stand beyond 
reproach for the sanctity of each individual, for freedom, for justice, 
for the rule of law. But the administration turned its back on all 
these traditions and on the ideals of America itself.

In 2005, Congress passed the Detainee Treatment Act to ensure that 
all interrogations conducted by the Department of Defense would comply 
with the Army Field Manual, a comprehensive and effective approach to 
interrogation that prohibits the use of torture and cruel, inhuman, and 
degrading techniques in favor of techniques that are most likely to be 
effective in gaining necessary information.

LTG John Kimmons said, when releasing the manual:




 No good intelligence is going to come from abusive 


 practices. I think history tells us that. I think the 


 empirical evidence of the last five years, hard years, tells 


 us that. The Manual itself tells us that the use of torture 


 is not only illegal, but also it is a poor technique that 


 yields unreliable results, may damage subsequent collection 


 efforts, and can induce the source to say whatever he thinks 


 the [interrogator] wants to hear.


Last May, General Petraeus echoed these statements in a letter to all 
our servicemembers in Iraq saying that ''torture and other expedient 
methods to obtain information'' are not only illegal and immoral, but 
also generally ''neither useful nor necessary.''

We now know, however, that the 2005 act left open a loophole that 
undermines the basic safeguards against torture and cruel and degrading 
treatment. We applied the field manual to the Department of Defense, 
but not to the CIA.

Last year in the Military Commissions Act, Congress left it to the 
President to define by Executive order the interrogation practices that 
would bind all Government interrogators, including the CIA. The 
President's Executive order drove a Mack truck through this small 
loophole. The vague terms of the order permit many of the most heinous 
interrogation practices.

The provisions of the bill we will have an opportunity of voting on 
tomorrow closed that loophole. They require that all U.S. 
interrogations, including those conducted by the CIA, conform to the 
Army Field Manual. This very simple and easily implemented reform means 
no more waterboarding, no more use of dogs or other extreme practices 
prohibited by the Manual. There will still be great flexibility in use 
of interrogation methods and our interrogators will be able to 
effectively get the required information, but torture will be off the 
table.

This bill is an opportunity to restate our commitment to the ideals 
and security of our Nation. It is an opportunity to repair the damage 
done to our reputation by the scandal of Abu Ghraib and the abuses of 
Guantanamo. It is an opportunity to restore our Nation as the beacon 
for human rights, fair treatment, and the rule of law. It is an 
opportunity to protect our brave service men and women, both in and out 
of uniform, from similar tactics. It is a simple but vital step in 
returning our Nation to the rule of law and the ideals on which America 
was founded, and it deserves to be enacted into law as soon as 
possible.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.