# None
## `1f804bb16ed16f44670e213b91117752`
`Mr. DREIER â€” 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume, 
and I rise to express my appreciation to my friend from Worcester for 
yielding me the customary 30 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, as I listened to my long-time Rules Committee colleague, 
the gentleman from Worcester, I am reminded of a great speech that was 
delivered last Friday. Last Friday, our very distinguished colleague, 
the Senator from Connecticut, Joe Lieberman, in an address, said 
something that I think encapsulates exactly what we just heard from my 
very good friend.

Senator Lieberman, in speaking of the Democratic Party, and he is now 
an independent Democrat, sometimes I see him listed as a Democrat, I 
know he organizes with the Democrats, he is listed as an independent as 
well, he said, ''The Democrats are emotionally invested in a narrative 
of defeat.''

Mr. Speaker, I have got to say as I listened to the words of my 
colleague from Worcester, I can't help but think that Senator Lieberman 
was right on target when he used that language, ''emotionally invested 
in a narrative of defeat.'' I was so struck with that when I heard it 
that I committed it to memory, and I think, again, it really takes on 
exactly what we have just heard.

It comes as no surprise that I rise in very, very strong, vigorous 
opposition to this rule and the underlying legislation as well. We have 
had 40 votes on Iraq policy, and today's bill brings us to vote No. 41. 
Not one, Mr. Speaker, not one of the withdrawal bills went through the 
normal legislative process. Not one, not one of these 41 measures is 
the product of a committee markup. Not one got its own hearing. Not one 
has been brought up under an even slightly open process, allowing for 
amendment, and consequently not allowing for any kind of real debate.

Mr. Speaker, most telling of all, not one has been enacted into law.

Now, we all know that the Democrats control both the House and the 
Senate, and still they cannot produce a single legislative victory on 
Iraq. Not once, not twice, not 10 times. Forty times. Mr. Speaker, 40 
times we have gone through the motions of their failed, bankrupt 
strategy. I can't recall a more naked display of demagoguery.

Now we come to vote No. 41. It has all the hallmarks of the 
Democratic majority's work: no deliberation, no gesture towards 
bipartisanship, and no hope of being enacted.

But there is something different about the vote this time, and that 
is context. We are considering this vote in a much different context 
than we have the 40 previous votes that we have addressed on this. In 
fact, our colleague in the Senate, Johnny Isakson, Senator Isakson, 
said this debate was understandable in May. He said in July, it was 
questionable. He said now it is absolutely ridiculous.



For many months, the situation in Iraq has been very bleak. While 
there were many promising signs of progress, the turnaround in al Anbar 
province most notably, the overall picture was one of great challenges 
and struggles. I have argued repeatedly that a precipitous withdrawal 
would only create more challenges, and, Mr. Speaker, I have highlighted 
the signs of progress amid the struggles all along.

But today, the tide is turning in Iraq. We are seeing far more than 
pockets of success, as my friend has said. We are seeing a dramatic 
shift in the landscape. It began in al Anbar, as I have said. The Sunni 
sheiks there turned on al Qaeda, joined with the largely Shiite Iraqi 
army and with coalition forces, and reclaimed the province. Ramadi, its 
capital, the city that we have all heard of described as the most 
dangerous city in the world just a year ago, hasn't had an attack in 3 
months. The city and the province are rebuilding. They are constructing 
small business centers so that the entrepreneurial spirit of Iraqis can 
flourish once again.

A delegation, including the Anbar governor, the Ramadi mayor, several 
prominent religious leaders and Ahmed Abu Risha, the brother of Sheik 
Sattar Abu Risha, the father of the Sunni Awakening, was just here in 
Washington a couple of weeks ago. They came here, Mr. Speaker, to spend 
several days receiving training in institution building, good 
governance, transparency and the rule of law.

Mr. Speaker, these are Anbar's political, business and religious 
leaders, not coming here to seek security assistance, not seeking 
military assistance. They have achieved security in al Anbar. Now what 
they want, Mr. Speaker, is help from us in their quest to build a 
democracy. But, most important of all, they are serving as a model for 
the rest of Iraq.

Prior to their trip, they participated with Shiite leaders in a 
summit in Karbala. Sheiks from Karbala and Najaf, Iraq's two holiest 
cities for Shiite Muslims, reached out to their Sunni brothers in Anbar 
and asked for their help in combating al Qaeda. This comes at a time 
when Sunni and Shiite leaders in Baghdad are reaching out to each other 
to begin the process of reconciliation as well.

Baghdad's notorious Adhamiya neighborhood that we have heard so much 
about, formerly the site of some of Iraq's worst sectarian violence, is 
now a place where Sunni and Shiite sheiks are meeting regularly to 
discuss how to bring their people together, just the things that my 
friend from Worcester said are so imperative. They are taking place at 
this very moment.

Now, all of this has been possible, Mr. Speaker, because of the 
dramatic drop in violence brought about by General Petraeus' 
counterinsurgency strategy. This strategy, which included the surge, 
has resulted in months of plummeting IED attacks, plummeting American 
troop deaths, plummeting Iraqi civilian deaths, and plummeting 
sectarian attacks.

Many of my colleagues have pointed out that this has been the 
deadliest year for American troops yet in Iraq, and, Mr. Speaker, I 
will acknowledge that this has been the deadliest year for American 
troops in Iraq. And it is true over the past year we have tragically 
seen that great number. But that does not reflect what is happening now 
in this post-surge world.



The past few months have seen the most dramatic decline in the deaths 
of American troops because we have had a new strategy. Mr. Speaker, we 
have had a new strategy, and that strategy is working. And perhaps most 
important for all of us, that strategy has enabled our military 
commanders to begin a drawdown in U.S. troop levels.

Not because of artificial timetables. Not because of the 
micromanagement of Members of Congress from the comfort of our offices 
thousands of miles away from the front lines. But by empowering our 
commanders on the ground, they have created a stable security situation 
that is allowing for both the beginnings of Iraqi reconciliation and 
the safe withdrawal of our troops.

Mr. Speaker, the big question for today is this: Will the dramatic 
improvement in Iraq prove to be a true turning point or nothing more 
than a lull in the war? I don't know the answer to that. Neither 
outcome is a foregone conclusion. Whether it is a major turning point 
in the war or just a lull, no one knows for sure. What we do know now 
will profoundly affect the future of Iraq. Will we fund our troops and 
empower our commanders to continue to do what is best for our long-term 
interests? Or will we pull the rug out from under them now at the 
precise moment they have achieved what we have asked of them?

As one of my friends just said to me, it seems like our friends on 
the other side of the aisle want defeat before we can win.

For my colleagues who would resort to the latter option out of 
political expediency, Mr. Speaker, let me remind them of another war 
our men and women are fighting. Today our troops are also battling a 
very real enemy in Afghanistan.

We got a terrible reminder just a few days ago of the viciousness of 
that fight when six of our counterparts, members of the Afghan 
Parliament, were brutally targeted in the worst attack in Afghanistan's 
history, and I would like to express my appreciation for the bipartisan 
support that my colleague, David Price, and I offered as leaders of the 
House Democracy Assistance Commission.

We have been working with those parliamentarians in Afghanistan, and 
we are hoping to work with those in Iraq as soon as possible. And we 
once again express our condolences to the people of Afghanistan who 
have suffered the single worst attack in their nation's history when a 
week ago yesterday six parliamentarians and 44 other people were 
brutally murdered.

Let me also remind my colleagues that this war that we are seeing in 
Afghanistan is not our first war in Afghanistan. Many of us were 
intricately involved in their war against the Soviets in the 1980s, 
many Members who are still here today. And what did we do after the 
Soviets were defeated? We withdraw and left the Afghans to fend for 
themselves.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot forget that democracy is hard work. For over a 
decade, unfortunately, in Afghanistan we indulged in the luxury of 
ignoring what was going on there. And then on a sunny Tuesday six 
Septembers ago, 3,000 Americans paid a horrible price for that mistake.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot refuse to learn from history or we are doomed 
to repeat it. Our support for our troops in Iraq has earned us a far 
more stable, secure situation. And yet what does the Democratic 
leadership propose to do? Their bill would reward our military 
commanders' success by cutting them off.

It would provide constitutional protections for terrorists, while 
leaving our veterans, including Iraq veterans, without funding. It 
would force the same disastrous, shortsighted withdrawal that led to 
the terrorist sanctuary in Afghanistan. It would do all of this at a 
time when we are achieving not just pockets of success in Iraq but 
broad-based improvements, and at a time when Republicans have been 
trying every possible means to get an appropriations bill for our 
veterans to the President, which he will certainly sign if we can ever 
get it to him.

Mr. Speaker, the Democratic majority's priorities, foolhardy 
policies, and constitutional rights for terrorists have never been so 
out of whack. I suppose we can take comfort in the fact that this is 
all a meaningless charade that will never be enacted, because we all 
know this will never be enacted. But that is a hollow comfort when we 
consider our troops in harm's way and our veterans in need.

Mr. Speaker, it is a very cruel comfort for the families of those who 
have made incredible sacrifices in this war.

I often think of my good friend, Ed Blecksmith, a former marine and 
the father of JP Blecksmith, also a marine, who died in November 2004 
just 3 years ago in the very famous battle of Fallujah. I have talked 
about the Blecksmith family here on the House floor many, many times. I 
didn't know JP, but from everything that I have read, and I have a 
recent article that has just come out about him, he was a very talented 
young man with a very bright future. He had so many opportunities 
before him, and he chose to be a marine because he wanted to serve as 
his father had done. His family proudly, but soberly, supported him. As 
a


former marine, Ed Blecksmith knew in a very real way the cost of war. 
JP Blecksmith would not return to his family, having made the ultimate 
sacrifice.

And his father said something to me that I will never forget. He 
looked me in the eye and asked me to make sure that we complete his 
son's mission in Iraq. He has said to me on countless occasions, You 
must complete the mission or my son JP will have died in vain.

Mr. Speaker, it is deeply heartening to see the beginnings of 
victory. And no, I am not saying ''mission accomplished'' or anything 
like that because we know full well that we have difficult days ahead. 
But it is deeply heartening to see the beginnings of victory in Iraq, 
for JP's sake and for the sake of all who have paid a very dear price.

We have a profound responsibility to allow our commanders to continue 
on this path.

Mr. Speaker, after 41, 41 wasted efforts, I can only hope that the 
Democratic leadership will finally abandon empty demagoguery for 
substantive legislation, meaningful debate, and a quest at 
bipartisanship so we can work with the President to come to an 
agreement. Until that time, I urge my colleagues to reject this closed 
rule and the terribly wrongheaded policy that it seeks to shield.












[From Details, Holiday 2007]








The Fallen: 2nd Lieutenant JP Blecksmith, 24














(By Jeff Gordinier)




 On the night before 2nd Lieutenant JP Blecksmith shipped 


 out to Iraq, after his family took him out for dinner in 


 Newport Beach, California, his older brother, Alex, picked up 


 a pair of clippers and shaved JP's head. When that was done 


 and JP looked ready for combat, Alex gave his brother a hug. 


 Then Alex climbed into JP's green Ford Expedition and drove 


 it north, back to the family's house in San Marino, weeping 


 part of the way. He had a feeling. So did his parents. A 


 premonition. They didn't talk about it much, but two months 


 later, in November 2004, when JP joined a wave of U.S. 


 Marines roaring into the city of Fallujah as part of 


 Operation Phantom Fury, the feeling intensified.



 On the night of November 10, Blecksmith and his closest 


 friend in Iraq, Lieutenant Sven Jensen, slept on a rooftop in 


 Fallujah. It was, miraculously, a quiet night, and chilly. 


 They got a decent night's sleep. They awoke just before 


 sunrise and were amused to find a small pet bird with green 


 wings and a yellow belly perched a couple of feet away from 


 their faces. Jensen took a picture of the bird. There were 


 other ones like it all over Iraq, because when U.S. troops 


 were searching abandoned houses, they often found cages that 


 had been left behind. The soldiers let the birds go free so 


 they wouldn't starve to death.



 Hours before, JP had sent a letter to his girlfriend, 


 addressing it formally, as always, to ''Ms. Emily M. Tait.'' 


 In it he wrote, ''By the time you receive this, you will know 


 we have gone into the city. We've been preparing for it the 


 last few days, and my guys are ready for the fight, and I'm 


 ready to lead them. It'll be hectic, and there will be some 


 things out of my control, but the promise of you waiting at 


 home for me is inspiring and a relief.'' Now he was in the 


 thick of it. Blecksmith and Jensen came down from the 


 roof, ate their MREs for breakfast, and got their orders. 


 Before the invasion the battalion commander, Colonel 


 Patrick Malay, had given his men an analogy: '' 'Imagine a 


 dirty, filthy windowpane that has not been cleaned in 


 hundreds of years,' '' he recalls saying. ''That's how we 


 looked at the city of Fallujah. Our job was to scrub the 


 heck out of that city, and then take a squeegee and wipe 


 it off so that it was clean and pure.'' Most of Fallujah 


 was empty, and anyone left in the city was presumed to be 


 an insurgent.



 Blecksmith and the other members of the India Company of 


 the Third Battalion, Fifth Marines Regiment, moved south 


 through the city, with their blood types scrawled in 


 indelible marker on the sleeves of their uniforms. The 


 streets smelled terrible--a stubborn aroma of rotting food 


 and bodies. Late in the day on November 11, things started to 


 go wrong. A marine in Blecksmith's platoon, Klayton South, 


 was shot in the mouth by an insurgent when he kicked open the 


 door of a house. Blood gushed from his mangled teeth and 


 tongue. The medics cut into South's throat to give him an 


 emergency tracheotomy. (He survived. He's since had more than 


 40 operations to repair the damage.) ''It shook the platoon 


 up,'' Jensen says now, ''and JP was the most in-control 


 person I saw. He had a sector to clear, so he rallied his 


 guys and said, 'Okay, we've got to continue clearing.' '' 


 Blecksmith's and Jensen's platoons moved off in different 


 directions, and the two friends shot each other a glance. 


 ''I'll never forget looking at his eyes the last time I saw 


 him,'' Jensen says. ''He turned and he gave me almost an 


 apprehensive look, like, Oh, s-it, we've got some s-it going 


 on. I wanted to say 'Hey, I'll see you later.' But I didn't 


 say anything to him.''



 Minutes later, Blecksmith led his platoon into a house and 


 climbed a flight of stairs to the roof to survey the 


 surrounding landscape. Shots came from a building across the 


 street. Blecksmith stood up to direct the squads under his 


 command, shouting at them to take aim at the enemy nest. He 


 was tall, and was now visible above the protective wall. ''He 


 was up front a lot, and he made a big target, and we'd talked 


 to him about that,'' Colonel Malay says. ''He exposed himself 


 consistently to enemy fire in the execution of his duties. He 


 displayed a fearlessness to the point that we had to talk to 


 him about the fact that nobody is bulletproof.''



 As Blecksmith stood on the roof, a sniper's 7.62-mm bullet 


 found one of the places on his body where he was vulnerable. 


 It was a spot on his left shoulder, less than an inch above 


 the rim of his protective breastplate. The bullet sliced 


 downward diagonally, coming to rest in his right hip, and 


 along the way it tore through his heart. ''I'm hit,'' 


 Blecksmith said. He fell. He raised his head for a moment, 


 and that was it. A Navy medic got to Blecksmith immediately, 


 but he was already dead, and his men carried his heavy body 


 back down the stairs. He was 24.



 That night in San Marino, Alex Blecksmith came home from 


 work and noticed that the house was dark. He opened the front 


 door and saw his mother, Pam, sitting at the kitchen table 


 with a couple of marines in dress blues and white gloves, and 


 he heard the phrase ''We regret to inform you . . .''



 The funeral was so magnificent, so full of pageantry, that 


 at times it was difficult for Alex to remember that the guy 


 being buried was his brother. The Marines do it right when it 


 comes to honoring the fallen. They do it so right that you 


 can get swept up in the ceremony and feel as though you're 


 watching a parade. The funeral took place at the Church of 


 Our Saviour in San Gabriel--the church where the most 


 celebrated of San Marino's favorite sons, General George S. 


 Patton, had been baptized as a baby. As the flag-draped 


 casket was carried out of the sanctuary and into the 


 California sun, a long, silent line of almost 2,000 people 


 followed. There were marines and midshipmen and local 


 firefighters in uniform. There was a 21-gun salute. Four 


 World War II fighter planes swooped toward the cemetery in 


 the ''missing man'' formation--just as they passed over the 


 funeral, the fourth plane symbolically split from the quartet 


 and veered into the sky. A bagpiper played a Scottish dirge. 


 One of JP's old friends would later observe that the day, in 


 all of its glory and pomp, made him think of Princess Diana's 


 wedding.



 As public support for the war in Iraq wavers, it's easy to 


 forget that people like JP Blecksmith even exist. The 


 American military is so predominantly blue-collar that we 


 tend to assume that the sons and daughters of the rich never 


 voluntarily die in warfare anymore. Blecksmith was born in 


 September 1980, just weeks before his state's own Ronald 


 Reagan was elected president, and he spent most of his youth 


 in the small Los Angeles County town of San Marino during 


 what felt, for many of its wealthy and conservative 


 inhabitants, like something of a ''Leave It to Beaver'' 


 golden age. To look at a photograph of him, blue-eyed and 


 suntanned and grinning, is to understand the enduring 


 magnetism of the word ''California.'' He stood six foot three 


 and weighed 225 pounds. His chest was a keg; his biceps were 


 gourds. His biography reads as though it were scripted by a 


 Hollywood publicist: legendary quarterback on the Flintridge 


 Prep football team, track star, graduate of the United States 


 Naval Academy.



 His father, Ed Blecksmith, who is 64, runs an executive-


 recruiting firm in Los Angeles. He and Pam met in the early 


 seventies, while both were working in the White House. Along 


 a wall leading into their kitchen hang framed Christmas cards 


 from Dick and Pat Nixon. ''Here's a kid,'' Ed says, ''who 


 didn't need to do this.'' It's as though JP were transplanted 


 into our world from the Eisenhower years. Somehow, in an 


 ironic age of Jon Stewart and ''South Park,'' the guy grew up 


 in a kind of pre-Summer of Love bubble in which young men of 


 strength and valor still yearned to distinguish themselves on 


 the battlefield. He was groomed, in a sense, for something 


 that no longer exists, at least not for guys who grow up in 


 the wealthiest zip codes in the country. He believed in 


 ideals of duty and sacrifice that have become, for many men, 


 anachronistic and even unfathomable.



 ''I was in awe,'' says Peter Twist, Blecksmith's closest 


 friend since preschool. Twist played wide receiver to 


 Blecksmith's quarterback on the Flintridge Prep football 


 team; a local newspaper called the duo ''Fire & Ice.'' 


 Blecksmith was known for being fast, composed, smart, and 


 unflappable, and his giant arms could propel the ball a good 


 80 yards down the field. If he had an athletic flaw, it was 


 that he was aware of his own flawlessness. ''He had such 


 personal confidence,'' says Tom Fry, a mentor to Blecksmith 


 in high school and one of the assistant coaches on his team. 


 ''He felt that if all the stars aligned, there was nothing he 


 couldn't do--it was JP's world.'' When they graduated in 


 1999, Twist and a couple other teammates went off to the 


 University of Arizona, where it's safe to say the prospect of 


 partying was on their minds, while Blecksmith opted for the 


 rigors and restrictions of Annapolis. ''I was stoked for the 


 man'' says Twist, 26, who lives in Newport Beach and works in 


 the mortgage business. ''Most of us are still trying to 


 figure it out, but JP always had a goal.''





 November 11, the date on which JP Blecksmith died, was 


 noteworthy for other reasons. It's Twist's birthday. It also 


 happens to be the birthday of General Patton, who grew up in 


 San Marino and holds a prominent place in the town's history. 


 This coincidence has only bolstered the mythology of JP 


 Blecksmith--a feeling that it was his destiny to die in 


 combat. The Blecksmiths have a statue of Patton on a shelf in 


 their home, and it becomes clear in conversation that Ed, a 


 decorated Vietnam veteran himself, sees a kind of mystical 


 link between the fate of his son and the military, triumphs 


 of the legendary general (who was a passionate believer, it 


 just so happens, in reincarnation).



 Indeed, JP Blecksmith fit the ''hero'' mold in such 


 classic, square jawed American style that a kind of cult of 


 JP has begun to develop in San Marino. They give out awards 


 in his name at the local schools. On the Fourth of July, San 


 Marino hosts a JP Blecksmith 5K run. A Marine Corps training 


 center in Pasadena has been christened Blecksmith Hall. On a 


 hot Sunday morning this past August, Alex parked his 


 brother's Expedition in the cemetery and walked across the 


 grass to the pale granite stone that says JAMES PATRICK 


 BLECKSMITH. An elderly man wandered over to the headstone, 


 hand in hand with a grade-school kid who had a blond Mohawk, 


 and told Alex, ''I never met JP, but I go by here and show my 


 grandson his grave''



 THREE YEARS AFTER BLECKSMITH'S death, his bedroom still 


 looks the way it did when he left for Annapolis in 1999. 


 There's a Green Bay Packers poster over the bed, a dense 


 forest of athletic trophies, toy race cars lined up on the 


 dresser. ''This is all his stuff from Iraq that they sent 


 over,'' Alex says, looking down at a cardboard box on the 


 floor. ''We haven't gone through it, really.''



 Ed Blecksmith walks into the bedroom, and within a few 


 seconds his voice is cracking and his blue eyes are growing 


 wet. ''It's still tough,'' he says. ''You see all these 


 pictures and things . . .'' He insists on sitting down in 


 front of the TV downstairs and watching DVD footage of that 


 magnificent funeral, fighting back a sob at the moment when 


 one of the eulogists, a Navy SEAL, describes JP as having 


 been ''the best of the best.'' Ed has some Fox News footage, 


 too. In it, you can see JP speaking to his men hours before 


 the battle in Fallujah, and that's where you get a brief 


 glimpse of the regular guy behind the mythology. Because 


 there stands JP, in fatigues and a floppy Boonie hat, holding 


 a map, telling his marines to ''expect everything you can 


 possibly imagine.'' When he looks at the camera for a moment, 


 he's smiling.


Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.