# RECOGNIZING GOODRICH AEROSTRUCTURES
## `1f96b27c06fec08fdb04b39eb0e34da0`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 18 November 2009`

---

 Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask my colleagues to join me in 
congratulating the Goodrich Aerostructures Original Equipment 
Manufacturer and the Alabama Service Center in Foley, AL, on their 25th 
anniversary. Goodrich Aerostructures became part of the Baldwin County 
community in 1984, originally as Rohr Industries. Twenty-two years 
later, Goodrich expanded significantly, and since 2005 Goodrich 
Aerostructures has been the second largest employer in Foley with 
approximately 800 people manufacturing, assembling, repairing, and 
servicing aircraft engine components and structures for military and 
commercial airplanes.

Since its inception, Goodrich Aerostructures has received numerous 
awards and recognition for continually providing excellent service and 
outstanding products. For the past 8 consecutive years, employees at 
Goodrich in Foley have been recognized by the Federal Aviation 
Administration with Aviation Maintenance Technician awards. In 
addition, Goodrich Aerostructures in Foley recently reached a 
significant milestone by delivering its 500th CF34-10 nacelle, and the 
company is on contract to supply the pylons and nacelle systems for the 
Air Force's C-5 Galaxy strategic airlifter as part of the Reliability 
Enhancement and Re-Engining Program to modernize the Air Force airlift 
fleet and improve support for our military personnel around the world.

The men and women of Goodrich have also been recognized as good 
corporate citizens and civic leaders in Baldwin County. The United Way 
of Baldwin County recognized Goodrich as the top contributing industry 
in the county earlier this year, and Goodrich workers actively support 
education, arts, and civic activities in the local community, including 
support for the Foley Public Library, the Center for Autism for Baldwin 
County, and the Baldwin County Council on Aging, and sending care 
packages to employees' friends and family members that are serving our 
country in Iraq and Afghanistan.

On behalf of my Senate colleagues and the State of Alabama, I thank 
the men and women of Goodrich Aerostructures in Foley.
