---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `1f9ca6366f24d51ca377ef0ae3fddde1`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Madam President, I am pleased the Senate has voted to 
allow debate on the Iraq war to go forward. It is far past time we had 
this important debate. It is far past time we brought our involvement 
in this misguided war to a close.

Under the strong leadership of Senator Reid, the Democratic caucus 
has produced a joint resolution that takes a significant step toward 
ending our involvement in the war in Iraq. I support the resolution, 
and I hope my colleagues will do the same.

The resolution does not go as far as I would like. I continue to 
believe the only way we are ultimately going to end the President's 
failed policies in Iraq is by exercising Congress's power of the purse 
to safely bring our troops out of Iraq. I have introduced legislation 
that would do that, and I will continue to look for every opportunity 
to bring up my bill for a vote.

I will support this resolution because it avoids the mistakes of 
previous proposals to address Iraq. It does not allow the President's 
misguided policies to continue. It does not tacitly reauthorize the 
war. It does not focus solely on the so-called surge. This is binding 
legislation that would bring to an end our involvement in perhaps the 
greatest foreign policy mistake in our country's history.

Some of my colleagues continue to argue that Congress should defer to 
the Commander in Chief when it comes to Iraq, that we should give him 
the opportunity to change course in Iraq or that we should allow his 
escalation plan a chance to succeed. Those arguments ignore our 
congressional responsibilities.