---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `1f9eccb0699dfe5f006d5128db16951b`
`Mr. AKIN — 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Madam Chair, there have been people that are saying that 
America as a nation is going down the path of socialism. We are 
becoming a socialized nation. But, you know, that isn't really quite 
fair. Not like the socialized nations of Europe anyway. Because, 
according to the standards of the European Union, they would not accept 
America with the budget that is being proposed here this very day.

Now, the spending that we are looking at is unprecedented. We have 
heard about the Bush administration spending money. They spent too 
much. We have acknowledged that. But let me tell you, what we have seen 
here in just 3 months makes the Bush administration look like mere 
pikers.

The Wall Street bailout, we did half of that this year, $350 billion. 
Then we added to that this economic stimulus, or as I would prefer to 
call it, porkulus, $787 billion. Let's understand what this number ''a 
billion'' means.

You have heard that the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq were really 
expensive. Day after day we have been told, hey, this war in Iraq is 
just draining money out of America. Yet, add up every day of that war, 
add it to the war in Afghanistan, and that number is smaller than what 
the House approved for this stimulus bill in the first 5 weeks that 
Congress has been in session. And then you have got the omnibus, 
another 400-some.

So what happens with this level of unprecedented spending? Well, the 
theory is supposed to be that if you spend enough money, it will make 
the economy better.

Now, I don't know very many American families who would buy something 
as silly as that. If you are in trouble financially, do you go and buy 
a brand-new car and spend money like mad? No. You hunker down a little 
bit and you try to be careful what you are spending. And yet somehow 
there is this theory that if we spend money, it is going to make 
everything okay.

They tried that in the days of FDR. The Secretary of Treasury, after 
8 years of trying that foolishness, came before this Congress in 1939 
with the quote, ''We have tried spending. The unemployment is as bad as 
when we started.'' And it didn't work. It didn't work for Japan, and it 
won't work for us if we keep down the spending.

Look at the comparison. We have heard about Bush spending. This is 
his average annual deficit, $300 billion. This is proposed by the 
President. The budget we are looking at here is even more, twice as 
much. If you take a look at the highest deficit, this was Bush in 2008 
with the Democrats in Congress, $459 billion, and yet we are looking at 
$1.2 trillion. Our new President makes President Bush look like a 
piker.

Now, did you ever go to first grade and they said, what is it that 
doesn't fit in in this picture? Take a look at the deficits that have 
been run or the actual surpluses of all of these different years. And 
here we go along. These are the Bush years. And guess what line doesn't 
fit? I mean, we are talking about absolutely radical levels of 
spending, and here on the floor right now is being proposed even more 
than that.

Then we hear that the Democrats are saying, oh, this is really good 
because, look, we are going to take this great big spike and we are 
going to spend it at half the rate. It is like somebody has been 
smoking funny cigarettes around here.