---
---

# FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `1fa42370c2a3dc3d2e44b1ce9d37fb70`
`Mr. CORNYN — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I congratulate the distinguished chairman 
and vice chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence for 
what I think is an outstanding product--a bipartisan product. I can't 
think of an area that is more important for us to act in the interests 
of our national security in a bipartisan manner than the subject before 
us today. We should resist with all of our might any impulse or tug 
that we might feel to emphasize partisan differences, but instead we 
ought to pull together to try to do what is necessary to keep our eyes 
open and our ears to the ground when it comes to the collection of 
foreign intelligence.

Of course, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act was passed in 
1978 to ensure that Americans' civil liberties were being protected. At 
the same time, we made sure we were able to listen to our enemies, 
which has become even more important today with terrorists taking 
advantage of the Internet, cellular phones, and other means of 
communications, and it is critical that we continue to take advantage 
of every opportunity to detect and deter future terrorists attacks on 
our own soil.

We were told last August by the Director of National Intelligence--
this has been widely published since--that because of some of the 
archaic provisions in the FISA law, the Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance Act, and because it had not kept up with changes in modern 
technology, that we were being blocked from receiving as many as two-
thirds of the communications of one foreign terrorist to another 
foreign terrorist because of the way these calls were being routed. We 
were told time and time again that the burdensome requirement of 
getting the paperwork necessary in order to get a FISA authorization in 
cases where the Congress never intended to require that sort of 
authorization, which was required because of these changes in 
technology, that it was actually causing delays in our ability to get 
timely information in a way to protect our country and our men and 
women in uniform serving in places such as Afghanistan and Iraq.

We know the ability to obtain the right information at the right time 
is of critical importance in our struggle against radical Islamic 
terrorists who hide among civilian populations and who don't abide by 
the Geneva Conventions. They don't wear a uniform. They don't recognize 
a chain of command or the laws of war. They hide among civilian 
populations and quietly plot deadly attacks against civilians--innocent 
men, women, and children--as they did on September 11, 2001.

I serve on the Judiciary Committee, so I am very much aware of some 
of the arguments made during the time we considered this bill on a 
serial referral against providing immunity to the telephone companies 
that have cooperated with the President of the United States, the 
Attorney General, and the intelligence community in facilitating the 
collection of this actual intelligence.

Mr. President, I think the Intelligence Committee version got it 
about right. Why in the world would we want to do anything to 
discourage private citizens, whether they be individuals or corporate 
citizens, from cooperating in the security interests of our country? 
This is perhaps analogous to a police officer who knocks on your window 
and says, I need your car to go capture a dangerous criminal before 
they do harm to somebody else. Well, if an individual were worried that 
they would be sued as a result of their being a good volunteer and a 
good member of the


community in allowing a law enforcement officer the use of their car to 
capture a dangerous criminal, do you think they would be more inclined 
or less inclined to cooperate with the lawful authorities? I think it 
is pretty clear that they would be far less inclined.

If we don't do everything in our power--and it is within our power--
to encourage individual and corporate citizens to cooperate in the 
security interests of our country, then shame on us. To tell them that 
you are going to have to endure ruinous litigation costs, that you are 
not even going to be able to defend yourself because some of the 
evidence is the subject of a State secrets privilege, and you are not 
even going to be able to explain what you did, while at the same time 
suffering the reputation damage that they could very well suffer if 
their participation was known in other parts of the world, is not fair. 
It is not fair to them and, even more importantly, it is not fair to us 
because to fail to give them the immunity for their cooperation with 
the lawful request of the President of the United States, after the 
Attorney General, the country's chief law enforcement officer, has said 
this is a lawful request, to fail to give them immunity and protection 
against that ruinous litigation and damage to their reputation is less 
than responsible.

I think the thing more likely to protect our security from this point 
forward is to show citizens who cooperate with the lawful authorities 
of the U.S. Government to help keep us safe that they are going to be 
protected against litigation and the vast costs that could be 
associated with it--not to mention the potential that classified 
information might become public and be known to our enemies. It makes 
absolutely no sense not to give that immunity to these individuals and 
these corporations.

The Protect America Act, which is scheduled to sunset in February, 
moved our intelligence capabilities in the right direction. But now we 
need to make those tools permanent. Changes in technology, combined 
with a court ruling that hampered the intelligence community, required 
that the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act be updated. That is what 
the Protect America Act was, although it was a temporary patch of about 
6 months. Now we need to make those provisions permanent and take this 
opportunity to further expand and enhance the Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance Act to make sure it works in the security interests of the 
American people, while taking the appropriate protections on American 
citizens here at home.

In the period between the court ruling that required the Government 
to obtain FISA orders for foreign intelligence that happened to pass 
through the infrastructure in the United States and the passage of the 
Protect America Act, collection of foreign intelligence information 
decreased by two-thirds. That is what prompted Congress to act in 
August without further delay, the likelihood that being blind to two 
out of every three communications between terrorists would likely make 
us less safe and would make it more likely that they would be 
successful in killing innocent Americans and our allies. Common sense 
informs us that this great drop in the percentage of intelligence 
collection harms our national security efforts.

Of course, as I mentioned, in August we took a temporary patch to 
close these intelligence gaps and clarify that the intelligence 
community does have the authority to monitor communications of foreign 
individuals without receiving a court approval first.

Now is the time for us to make that authority permanent. It has never 
been required, in listening in to foreign subjects talking to other 
foreign subjects, to get a court order, and the Protect America Act 
made that temporary fix. We need to make that permanent.

Some have made arguments which, in the end, would hamper our 
intelligence capabilities, requiring procedures never before in place. 
Intelligence community resources--both funding and expertise--are 
scarce and should be focused in the manner that best protects our 
national security. Our intelligence analysts should not be distracted 
from the important job of listening in and using information to deter 
further attacks by having to fill out a bunch of paperwork, 
particularly in areas that Congress never intended that they would have 
to do so.

The Senate and House Democratic Judiciary Committee proposals, I am 
sorry to say, would greatly hamper our intelligence community. As I 
mentioned a moment ago, I serve on the Judiciary Committee, and proudly 
so. Unfortunately, in voting this alternative out of the Judiciary 
Committee--along strictly partisan lines--I think we failed to meet the 
standards that were set by the Intelligence Committee version of this 
bill. Although there are changes that I think need to be made, by and 
large, the bipartisan vote in the Intelligence Committee--their product 
was superior to the product out of the Judiciary Committee.

The House bill would require court orders for foreign targets in 
foreign lands--something that has never been required in the 30 years 
since FISA was enacted and would completely reverse the important 
reforms, albeit temporary, we made a few months ago.

Delays inherent in obtaining court approval could, in fact, put 
American security interests in jeopardy.

Here is a concrete example. This last summer, three American soldiers 
were thought to be kidnapped by al-Qaida in Iraq. Because of delays in 
obtaining emergency authorization under the Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance Act, our intelligence community was unable to set into 
place surveillance that may have saved the lives of these soldiers on 
May 12, 2007. There was a 10-hour delay while the authorities did the 
paperwork necessary for them to listen in on communications they never 
should have been required to get a FISA order to listen to in the first 
place--clearly, foreign-to-foreign communications. Instead, PFC Joseph 
Anzack was found dead a few weeks later in the Euphrates River, and an 
al-Qaida subsidiary claims to have killed and buried SPC Alex Jiminez 
and PFC Byron Fouty. Those 10 hours of delay, I believe, contributed to 
the deaths of these 3 American soldiers. If they hadn't been required 
to wait 10 hours to do the paperwork, I think there was a better chance 
that they could have been found safely and returned to the arms of 
their loved ones.


One of the key lessons the 9/11 attacks taught us was that we have to 
do a better job of connecting the dots. Erecting more walls and 
barriers to the collection and sharing of intelligence material ignores 
this important lesson and gives our adversaries an unacceptable 
tactical advantage, needlessly placing Americans in greater danger of 
another attack instead of doing everything within our power to keep 
them safe.

Unlike members of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I am sorry to 
say that House Democrats refused to work with committee Republicans, or 
with the Director of National Intelligence and the Department of 
Justice. How the House committee--or for that matter, the Senate 
Judiciary Committee--could hope to fashion a sensible, workable product 
without consulting with either the Department of Justice or the 
Director of National Intelligence is beyond me. I congratulate the 
members of the Senate Intelligence Committee on working so carefully, 
over a long period of time, in consultation with the appropriate 
authorities, to come up with a bipartisan product--one that I concede 
is not perfect, but no legislation is perfect.

We are going to be talking about ways that I think we can improve 
even that bill. But the Senate, unfortunately--the Judiciary 
Committee--saw important suggestions from the Intelligence Community 
rejected, again, along partisan lines. No attempt was made to craft a 
bipartisan proposal. Instead, the committee chose to come up with a 
party-line vote that raised serious operational concerns.

By working with the intelligence community, the Senate Intelligence 
Committee was able to provide the intelligence community with more 
flexibility in gathering foreign intelligence. This Senate bill will 
allow the Attorney General to authorize targeting persons outside of 
the United States to acquire this necessary information. No longer will 
they be required to go to the FISA Court for an approval to target 
foreign terrorists and spies overseas. This will ensure that our 
intelligence community has the agility and the speed it needs to 
collect actionable intelligence at a time when it counts.



The Senate bill does not restrict the types of foreign intelligence 
that may be collected. It also streamlines the Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance Act, providing for more efficient, timely processing of 
FISA applications.

These are only a few examples of the tools the authors of the Senate 
Select Committee on Intelligence learned that the intelligence 
community needs to make our country safer, simply by working together 
across the aisle in a way that protects the American people more. They 
are to be applauded and congratulated for that effort.

When the security of our country is at stake, we should consult the 
very people in the best position to know what they need to make sure 
that they have the tools necessary, without causing unintended negative 
consequences.

We should learn from the bipartisan lead of the Senate Intelligence 
Committee and work with them to craft a responsible, bipartisan bill 
that keeps our eyes and our ears open, allows us to listen to our 
enemies, and will help us protect Americans against future terrorist 
attacks on our own soil and in places where Americans are located 
around the world.

I yield the floor.