# AFGHANISTAN TROOP SURGE
## `1fade9c55857467685fc94cf0fe64abe`
`Mr. KYL — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I was critical of the President's decisions 
when he canceled the so-called missile shield that would have been 
located in Poland and in the Czech Republic, among others things, 
because I was concerned about the message it sends to our allies in the 
region. After working with them to develop the political and public 
consensus for this missile shield, the United States essentially pulled 
the rug out from under these allies and left the consensus in Central 
and Eastern Europe that the United States, once again, proved to be an 
unreliable ally.

Throughout the Baltic States, Central Europe and other people in the 
world couldn't fail to notice the same. I am thinking of countries in 
the Persian Gulf that have relied upon the presence of the United 
States but have, I think, wondered from time to time whether we are the 
ally they want to stick with because of the fact that sometimes we have 
proven to be unreliable.

I am concerned about that same issue with respect to Pakistan and 
Afghanistan. Will our continued public debate over the recommendations 
that General McChrystal has made to the President result in both allies 
in the region as well as the leaders of Afghanistan and Pakistan 
concluding that they better make book with others in the area, 
including potentially the Taliban? Because after all, those people are 
going to continue to be in the area; the United States may not.

This is where I think the debate about General McChrystal's 
recommendations about troop levels and other resources in Afghanistan 
become so very important. I think we need to listen to the advice of 
the commander in the field, General McChrystal, who produced a very 
straightforward assessment of the situation in Afghanistan.

Obviously, the President is the Commander in Chief, and the decisions 
are his to make. It is appropriate for him to rely upon others for 
advice as well as on the commander in the field. But there is a point 
at which the President's own strategy, which he announced in March, 
needs to be adequately resourced and we need to move forward. Here is 
what the President said:




 The American people must understand that this is a 


 downpayment on our own future.


He was talking about the resources that would be needed in 
Afghanistan. So he selected General McChrystal to implement his 
strategy. We unanimously confirmed General McChrystal, and then the 
President asked him to give an assessment of what it was going to take. 
That assessment was provided in August. It has now been about 50 days 
since that assessment


has been made public--since the President received it. Yet we still 
don't have a decision.

My concern is that this continuing public debate is going to raise 
doubts around the world about the staying power of the United States; 
about our willingness to continue commitments we make. Remember, the 
President himself called this a war of necessity, both during the 
campaign and after his inauguration. He stressed the fact that we had 
to do what it took to win in Afghanistan. There are those around the 
world who are wondering whether we mean to resource this effort to the 
extent that General McChrystal has said is necessary.

What did General McChrystal's assessment say? First, he speaks of 
what ISAF--that is the international force, including NATO forces--will 
require.




 ISAF requires an increase in the total coalition force 


 capability and end strength.


In other words, more troops. He warned of the risk of not providing 
adequate resources, and here is what he said:




 Failure to provide quality resources risks a longer 


 conflict, greater casualties, higher overall costs, and 


 ultimately, a critical loss of political support. Any of 


 these risks, in turn, are likely to result in mission 


 failure.


Is that what we want--mission failure? If we don't quickly make a 
decision, support the President--if he makes the decision to adequately 
resource our effort there, then we are not only going to be losing, we 
are not only going to have mission failure, but we will send a message 
to everybody around the world that, once again, the United States can't 
be trusted. Here is what the General said about why it matters:




 Time matters; we must act now to reverse the negative 


 trends and demonstrate progress. I believe the short-term 


 fight will be decisive. Failure to gain the initiative and 


 reverse insurgent momentum in the near-term--next 12 months--


 while Afghan security capacity matures--risks an outcome 


 where defeating the insurgency is no longer possible.


Do we want to take the risk that we take so long in getting the 
additional troops there that success is no longer possible? I hope not. 
Finally, General McChrystal underscored the reason for his conclusions 
during a recent speech he gave in London, where he said:




 I believe that the loss of stability in Afghanistan brings 


 a huge risk that transnational terrorists such as al-Qaida 


 will operate from within Afghanistan again.


Now we are having this big public debate. Some prominent Democrats 
have said we shouldn't resource this the way General McChrystal has 
announced, and this is why I think we are sending the wrong message. I 
understand there is some declining support for the war, but this is 
where Presidential and congressional leadership comes in.

I remember, during the debate over the Iraq war, we had a lot of 
armchair generals and even a lot of pundits who thought they knew 
better. Well, General Petraeus, it turned out, was right. Thankfully, 
President Bush at the time followed his recommendations. As a result, 
the surge in Iraq was successful. General McChrystal and General 
Petraeus are essentially saying the same thing again.

Remember, General McChrystal is an expert in both counterterrorism 
and counterinsurgency policy. He understands the difference and he 
understands it takes resources to fight a counterinsurgency campaign 
because you not only have to defeat an enemy but you have to continue 
to hold the area you have taken until the indigenous forces--in this 
case the Afghan police and army--are trained in sufficient numbers to 
hold the territory. You have to protect the populace. In a 
counterinsurgency strategy, the key is not killing the enemy, the key 
is protecting the populace. That is why it takes more troops.

Let me read a couple other things the general said:




 My conclusions were informed through a rigorous multi-


 disciplinary assessment by a team of accomplished military 


 personnel and civilians, and my personal experience and core 


 beliefs. Central to my analysis is a belief that we must 


 respect the complexities of the operational environment and 


 design our strategic approach accordingly.


This is a carefully thought-out strategic assessment with a lot of 
support.

There is a recent article in the Weekly Standard magazine by Fred and 
Kim Kagan that does an excellent job of explaining why this advice is 
so wise. It focuses on the nature of the al-Qaida threat that emanates 
from Afghanistan and the network of support that is established there. 
Part of this is what has informed General McChrystal's assessment. The 
article says, and I quote:




 We should fight [the Taliban and Haqqani groups]--


Another terrorist-led group--




 because in practice they are integrally connected with al 


 Qaeda. Allowing the Taliban and the Haqqani networks to 


 expand their areas of control and influence would offer new 


 opportunities to al Qaeda that its leaders appear determined 


 to seize. It would relieve the pressure on al Qaeda, giving 


 its operative more scope to protect themselves while working 


 to project power and influence around the world.


In other words, against the United States. The Haqqani group he is 
referring to is another terrorist-led group.

Secretary of State Clinton said it quite succinctly when she stated:




 If Afghanistan were taken over by the Taliban, I can't tell 


 you how fast al-Qaida would be back in Afghanistan.


That is the point. That is why I think we need to get on with our 
decision.

I noted, with interest, a column by E.J. Dionne in the Washington 
Post entitled ''No Rush to Escalate.'' He quotes in his column 
historian Robert Dallek, who recently advised President Obama:




 ''In my judgment,'' he recalls saying, ''war kills off 


 great reform movements.''


Then he goes on to talk about how World War I brought the Progressive 
Era to a close; that Franklin Roosevelt would have done better if not 
for World War II; that Vietnam hurt Lyndon Johnson's Great Society. He 
says:




 It may just be that some of the President's senior advisers 


 and supporters may be urging him not to devote the necessary 


 resources to Afghanistan because they don't want him to 


 become a war president.


That would be most unfortunate. President Obama is the Commander in 
Chief. He campaigned to become the war President. He said he wanted to 
end the war in Iraq, which he called a war of choice, and he wanted to 
win the war in Afghanistan--a war of necessity.

He won the election and he, now, as Commander in Chief, has to make 
these critical decisions. Whether he likes it or not, he is a war 
President and he will be judged by history not only by his domestic 
agenda but by how well he leaves the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The key with Afghanistan is not to leave the country in the hands of 
dangerous Taliban or other terrorists who would work with al-Qaida and 
give them the kind of place they had before from which to train and 
plan attacks on the rest of the world.

Also at stake in this debate is the message we are sending to the 
rest of the world, to our allies in the Middle East, in the Persian 
Gulf, to Pakistan. Is it safe to throw in with the United States and to 
help us in our war against these terrorists or, because the United 
States may bug out when the going gets tough, do we decide to make book 
with the other side, as Pakistan had done in the past with various 
groups including the Taliban? That is part of what is at stake. It is 
not just Afghanistan but our reputation around the rest of the world as 
to how we deal with our allies and how we resolve conflicts we get 
involved in.

General McChrystal said it best when he said:




 We must show resolve. Uncertainty disheartens our allies, 


 emboldens our foes.


That is the key message today. I urge the President, in continuing 
this debate, to bring it to a close as quickly as he can to make the 
decision. I know Republicans will support a decision that follows the 
recommendations of General Petraeus and General McChrystal.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record two articles 
from the Weekly Standard magazine: One, ''How Not to Defeat al-Qaeda, 
To Win in Afghanistan Requires Troops on the Ground'' and ''Don't Go 
Wobbly on Afghanistan; President Obama Was Right in March,'' both by 
Fred and Kimberly Kagan.