---
---

# None
## `1fbb96596c3522214ca87b7d4aafed88`
`Mr. INOUYE — 29 September 2009`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, the statement I am about to present may 
appear a bit redundant after listening to the great statement of the 
senior Senator from Mississippi, vice chairman of this committee. But 
as chairman of this committee, I want to, by this redundancy, emphasize 
that Senator Cochran and I work as a team, and we agree with the 
provisions in this measure. For the interest of this body, it should be 
noted that this measure was passed and presented to the Senate by a 
vote of 30 to zero--unanimous. A $636 billion bill coming out of the 
committee, after due consideration, unanimously is historic.

The amendment of the Senator from Arizona seeks to eliminate funds 
provided in this bill to sustain the C-17 program. As I indicated, Vice 
Chairman Cochran and I proposed, and the committee accepted, our 
recommendation to relocate $2.5 billion to procure an additional 10 C-
17 aircraft. If approved, this will bring the total C-17 inventory to 
223 aircraft. We believe this is a critical investment which will 
support our national security strategy and add much to the needed 
airlift capability.

There are three main reasons the committee supported adding funding 
for the C-17:

First, as everyone in the military, from senior leadership to the 
soldiers being transported, will agree, it is, simply put, a superb 
aircraft. The C-17 represents the finest in military technology. It is 
efficient, cost-effective, and highly capable. In short, it has no 
detractors.

Second, we believe the facts now show that additional aircraft are 
needed to meet military requirements despite that it is being 
recommended by the Pentagon for cancellation.

Third, the C-17 embodies the only strategic airlift production 
program in our Nation. As the Senator from Missouri pointed out, there 
is nothing on the planning ledger to replace it. If we cut off the 
production at this moment, it will be unaffordable to restart this 
program.

The C-17 provides the U.S. military with the essential flexibility to 
respond on short notice--and I emphasize short notice--anywhere in the 
world. Our air fleet assets are a major enabler of strategy and 
operational plans. There is not a military scenario in existence today 
which can be put into effect without a strong airlift fleet. The C-17 
was designed specifically to meet virtually all of the needs of our 
warfighters. It is the only airlift aircraft that has the ability to 
fly both great distances and to land on austere airfields anywhere in 
the world. That is very important because we don't have long runways 
prepared for us in far-off countries. When teamed with the tactical C-
130 and the C-5, the C-17 fleet provides the Nation with the capability 
to deliver outsized cargo to our forces wherever they may be located.

We believe the C-17 is today the finest airlift aircraft in the U.S. 
arsenal. With its new avionics and structures, it can maintain a very 
high mission capability rate. This is a term used by the Air Force to 
denote the aircraft's ability to perform. Comparative data filed by the 
Government Accountability Office in November 2008 showed that the C-17 
was able to successfully perform its mission in excess of 85 percent of 
the time. And I think we should note that--85 percent of the time, they 
are able to perform their mission. On the other hand, the aging C-5 was 
only able to meet its performance demands 58 percent of the time. For 
our men and women in uniform, what this means is that if they are 
depending on a C-5, their needs will be only addressed a little more 
than half the time, while a C-17 will meet their needs more than 8 
times out of 10.

In addition, the C-17 is much cheaper to operate than the C-5. It is 
true that a C-5 has the capacity to carry more cargo, but in the actual 
usage by the Air Force, the cost per flying hour of the C-17 is only 40 
percent of the cost of the C-5. The Air Force has informed us that 
today its current statistics show that it costs $6.42 to fly 1 pound of 
cargo from South Carolina to Baghdad on a C-17--that is $6.42 from 
South Carolina to Baghdad--but $13.76 to fly the same item on a C-5. 
Why? Because the C-5 is unreliable, because we rarely need to fill 
either plane to its maximum capacity on an average mission, and because 
the C-17 is newer and modernized in comparison to the C-5. We simply 
cannot rely on the older, outdated C-5.

Opponents might argue that when we modernize the C-5 it will be able 
to overcome many of these problems. I would concur that a modernized C-
5 will be a far better aircraft. However, I would point out that the C-
5 Modernization Program has been plagued with delays and cost overruns. 
Because of the high cost of the C-5 Modernization Program, the Defense 
Department decided that it could no longer afford to modernize all 111 
C-5s and it cut the program to 52. That means our military will be 
dependent on 59 of the old and often broken C-5s that cost twice as 
much to operate as the C-17 for the foreseeable future. That is 47 
percent of the C-5 fleet that won't be updated and will be unable to 
operate efficiently to meet our military needs.

The Government Accountability Office noted that additional 
investments in the C-17 may be attractive. It calculated that the 
Defense Department would need to modernize, as Senator Cochran pointed 
out, seven C-5s--to modernize seven C-5s--to get the equivalent 
capability gained from acquiring one C-17. It is going to take seven C-
5s to do the work of one C-17, but it would cost three times as much to 
modernize the seven C-5s as it would to purchase one C-17.

I would like to point out that the C-17 is a fully matured program 
with stable costs and little uncertainty, while the C-5 Modernization 
Program is still in its infancy. If there is one thing we know about 
Defense programs, it is that new program costs generally increase 
during their early years.

Some may address the Senate and say we don't need any more C-17s. 
They note that today the Air Force now says we only need the 213 we 
already have purchased. I would like to point out that in 2002 the 
commander of the U.S. Transportation Command testified that his C-17 
requirement was for 222 C-17s. Moreover, the 2005 Mobility Capabilities 
Study also raises questions about how many aircraft are required. This 
study, which is supposed to be the basis of our strategic airlift 
capability requirements, identified the need for between 292 and 383 
strategic airlift aircraft, a combination of C-17s and modernized C-5s. 
In the force today, we have 111 C-5s and 205 C-17s--a total of 315 
aircraft--near the bottom of the requirement level. But that doesn't 
tell the whole story.

In the last Quadrennial Defense Review in 2006, the Defense 
Department opted to keep its total inventory near the bottom of this 
requirement range with 180 C-17s and 112 C-5s.

Although we have added C-17s since that time and lost one C-5, the 
more important fact is that the QDR based this recommendation on a plan 
to modernize all 112 C-5s. With the plan to only modernize 52 C-5s, the 
airlift capability of the fleet is drastically diminished.

In 2008, the commander of the Air Force Air Mobility Command 
expressed his concern with this plan. He testified that the plan with 
52 modernized C-5s and 205 C-17s will not provide the strategic airlift 
that he required.



I would also note that these earlier studies did not take into 
account today's force structure. That is a very important point. Since 
the mobility study and the QDR were completed we have transformed our 
Army creating additional combat capability that requires lift. We have 
increased the end strength of our Marine Corps, and we have created the 
U.S. Africa command. All of these have increased our airlift needs.

At the same time, operations in Iraq and Afghanistan are aging our 
airlift fleet beyond anticipated rates. We are flying the wings off our 
C-17 fleet. In November, 2007, the Air Force Chief of Staff recommended 
buying an additional 44 C-17s to meet the required force level. On the 
2009 Unfunded Requirements List the Air Force asked for an additional 
15 C-17 aircraft with a stated inventory objective of 248 C-17s. Our 
military leaders have called for additional aircraft, our forces have 
grown since our last studies were written and our plans have been 
altered to cut back on our modernization program.

It seems to me that notwithstanding the plan offered by the Defense 
Department, the country has a choice--we can either agree to modernize 
all the C-5s or we can continue to procure additional C-17s. As noted 
earlier, as the GAO discovered a new C-17 offers greater capability at 
a lower price. To me and to many of my colleagues this just makes 
sense.

Unless we act this year and approve the recommendation from the 
Appropriations Committee, we won't have a choice. Without the funds in 
this bill the C-17 program will begin to shut down. I say to my 
colleagues this is a critical decision and we have to be certain on our 
course. As the GAO noted, ''careful planning is needed to ensure C-17 
production is not ended prematurely . . . Restarting production would 
not be feasible or cost effective.'' That is the GAO.

Earlier this decade, on several occasions the Defense Department 
urged the Congress to allow it to begin to retire the oldest and least 
capable C-5s. It too believed that purchasing additional C-17s was a 
far superior choice to meet our airlift needs. However, each year the 
Congress refused to allow DoD to retire any C-5s. Eventually, the 
Pentagon gave up trying and decided it would be stuck with the old 
unreliable C-5s. While it originally sought to upgrade all the old C-5s 
to at least make the best of a bad situation, the cost overruns and 
delays in the C-5 modernization program made that decision 
unaffordable. I would point out that the Congress rectified this 
problem this year in the supplemental and allowed the Air Force to 
begin to retire these aged aircraft. We know that it makes economical 
sense to retire these poorly performing aircraft and to replace them 
with new C-17s. We are looking forward to the Air Force revisiting this 
issue in the fiscal year 2011 budget with a renewed plan to retire the 
older C-5s and hopefully a desire to replace them with new C-17s.

In this year's budget the Secretary of Defense has made some tough 
decisions'' He has opted to kill the F-22, the JSF second engine, the 
VH-71 Presidential helicopter, the combat search and rescue helicopter 
and the kinetic energy interceptor. In the bill before the Senate we 
have supported each of these recommendations. I will be candid that I 
am not confident that each of these recommendations is in our Nation's 
interest, but in general I support the Secretary's plans.

There is only one program that the vice chairman and I felt strongly 
enough about to reverse the recommendation of the Secretary, the C-17.

I have explained at some length why, it is cost effective, it is 
capable, and it is needed. I urge all my colleagues to reject the 
amendment of the Senator from Arizona and to vote to support the 
continuation of the C-17 program.

It is in our Nation's interest.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.