---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `1fbff6858e01a3a36df38676b2befa68`
`Mr. BOSWELL — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. BOSWELL. First, I, too, would like to join with others in our 
appreciation of Chairman Skelton and Mr. Duncan for their good work, 58 
unanimous votes coming out of committee. That says a lot.

Madam Chairman, I think it's important for us to realize some things 
in the future that are going on with our forces that many of us who 
participated over the years, you and I, have got some concern about, 
that's readiness.

If you haven't talked to your adjutant generals back in your home 
State, you ought to do that. You ought to have a talk with them, 
because it's something we ought to address. I know the ranking member 
and chairman understand this, but we have to do it. You have got a good 
bill. You have done what we ought to do.

We have to think about what happens next. I think we have to realize 
that there is some disparity about what is going on, even in the Iraq 
operation, because we have to figure out what we want to do in the 
future. What do we want as the policy, as the structure, as we think 
about the added forces that we are going to have to do.

We think about deployment. You know, they tell me that about 80 
percent of the casualties over there, and probably some of you have 
more accurate information, are from the infantry. But they are only 
about 20 percent of the force.

You think about that, there's something going on here that's evolved 
in all of this that we haven't really addressed. We are thinking about 
the dearth of those who are reenlisting in the very important rank, the 
backbone of the Army, and I would guess the Marines as well, and that's 
the E-6. There are more of those that are doing the leadership 
positions throughout a various variety of things, as well as the O-2s 
and O-3s.



And those are young people, younger people, who have got some amount 
of service, but they have got to talk to their families about 
reenlisting and continuing on. They are not staying, and this ought to 
be a concern. We have got to address that, and we have got to do that 
in the very, very near future.

So we have to sit down and say, what is our structure, what is our 
policy, before we go ahead and do the things that we have to do.