# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3159, ENSURING MILITARY READINESS  THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `1fd60382f717f15bd03ca5ae2735a6b3`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 2 August 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, despite our great respect and affection for those who 
brought their amendments to the Rules Committee yesterday, it is well 
known in this House and in the country that the Democrat majority 
intends to bring the war to a close as quickly as possible and as quick 
as it is practicable to do so.

To reinstitute the Iraq Study Committee, to refinance it, put it back 
together, wait for a report would take far longer than we frankly are 
willing to give.

But this bill before us today, the underlying bill before us, is 
humane. And it says, for goodness sake, don't redeploy troops over and 
over and over again unless they have had at least as much time at home 
to rest as they have had in combat.

This is a different kind of combat, Mr. Speaker. Soldiers before have 
always been given recreation and rest after intense combat. Not this 
time. The soldiers in Iraq and all the military people of Iraq face 
almost instantaneous death every moment of the day and night without 
any respite at all. We are seeing the results of that brought home with 
the posttraumatic stress syndrome which is rising so rapidly.

In addition to that, we are demanding at last, because we didn't have 
the opportunity before by not being in the majority, that these troops 
be equipped properly.

The New York Times said on a front page story recently that 80 
percent, Mr. Speaker, of the marines that died in Iraq would have 
lived, those with upper body wounds would have lived with the proper 
equipment. How can we live with that?



We know now that instead of sending useless Humvees that were of no 
use at all to them against the IEDs, if we had always sent MRAPs, a 
technology we have known for 30 years, heaven knows how many of the 
nearly 4,000 who died would have been saved and how many of the more 
than 30,000 who have been wounded would have been spared that.

That weighs heavily on the conscience of those of us in the House of 
Representatives, and it angers the people that we represent.

We've talked to the parents of those who have been sent back two, 
three, four times. I have talked to one father who told me as his son 
was being deployed for the fourth time; if he gets killed, I will kill 
somebody. The anguish of these parents is palpable; and, as I stated 
before in my earlier statement, we don't fight this war. The 1 percent 
of the military people and their families are fighting this war. We've 
been asked for no sacrifice of any kind.

How glib it is for us to stand on this floor and say, leave it to the 
generals and look how well they're doing. The number of generals who 
have resigned their commission so that they could speak out against 
this carnage and this despicable war that was unplanned and planned by 
people who have left the scene cannot go on any longer.

And I will tell you that we have to go and look families in the face, 
and there are a number of times that I've gone to services, and my 
position on the war is well-known, and I've wondered if the families, 
how they would accept my presence. I have never been to a single one 
where they didn't say to me, bring them home, bring them home.

For heaven's sake, Mr. Speaker, if it's not just for that alone, 
those of us here have that obligation to bring them home.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.