---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `1fdaa00431a5f09399fc5f4c53c8b089`
`Mr. HOLT — 16 June 2009`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, there are a number of reasons to vote for this 
bill. The bill funds our withdrawal from Iraq, stop-loss compensation 
for our troops, a more robust pandemic flu response, extends the 21st 
Century GI Bill of Rights education benefits to children of members of 
the armed forces who die while on active duty, additional international 
food and refugee assistance during the current global economic crisis, 
and other worthy programs as well. But candidly, those issues are 
ancillary to the real issue before us: this vote is essentially about 
whether or not we support current Administration policy in Afghanistan 
and Pakistan. I hope the President does not let the country down on 
this.

Does the Congress want to support and fund the President's new 
military plan? Looking back at this vote from the future, it will be 
seen as a vote on the war in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Will a vote for 
this bill move us closer to a peaceful resolution of the conflict in 
southwest Asia?

In this dangerous, complicated world it is never clear how to advance 
peace, prosperity, and justice for ourselves and the rest of the world. 
We Members of Congress are called on to exercise our best judgment, and 
in my best judgment what the President has done so far in Afghanistan 
is not the way forward, and the President will have to change the 
policy. The President is doing much good at home and abroad, and I want 
to support him wherever I can. However, he so far has not changed the 
policy in Afghanistan in a way that shows he has learned the lessons of 
Iraq. Nevertheless, I am willing to give him the opportunity to operate 
from a position of strength in forming that new policy.

The chairman of the full committee has suggested that he is willing 
to give the President a year to turn things around in Afghanistan and 
Pakistan, but no more than that--an argument that has considerable 
merit. The problem, though, is that the President's new policy may not 
be new enough--not enough of a clean break with the past policy that 
placed excessive reliance on the use of force to solve what are by 
definition political problems. We should take a lesson from Iraq where 
it was not an American troop surge that reduced violence, but rather 
empowering local provincial forces. And as in Iraq, it will be a 
reduced American combat presence that will ultimately allow the country 
to find some peace. So-called surgical strikes--with inevitable 
civilian casualties--and remote assassinations will not remove the 
threat of militant extremists.

Our understanding of Afghanistan is inadequate and our poor 
intelligence in Afghanistan and Pakistan limits our ability to carry 
out any strategy. We are moving forward in Afghanistan with too much 
military bravado and too little genuine understanding. Other countries 
are opting out of combat, not because they are cowards, but because 
they do not see the situation the same way. Some of us have asked for a 
plan of success or a plan of withdrawal before sending another wave of 
soldiers. We have received no such plan.

As with other tragic wars without a clear plan of how to get out, I 
fear we may be taking a first step that will be followed by sending 
soldier after soldier to redeem our sunk costs. Alexander the Great, 
the Mongols, the Mughals, the British, the Soviets--all their military 
interventions in this region ended badly because they misread the 
people and the history of this region. I am giving the President the 
benefit of the doubt on this request by supporting it, with this 
caveat: my patience has limits.

I will not support an endless military commitment in this region. 
Reading between the lines, I suspect I see the letter Q in 
Afghanistan--as in quagmire. If a year from now I do not see 
unambiguous indicators of success--fewer civilian casualties, Afghan 
and Pakistani security forces in the lead on the security mission, 
genuine progress in rebuilding Afghanistan's shattered infrastructure 
and civil institutions--I will not support further funding for 
operations and will support only measures that will bring our forces 
home, and quickly.