---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `1fdae2a6388f6cb0b059bae31609a765`
`Mr. KERRY — 17 December 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Madam President, I rise to speak on something else, but I 
will say very quickly, I have listened to colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle lamenting where we are today. It has been 11 months since 
a new President was inaugurated and, obviously, everybody understands 
this is not a mess he created. The last 8 years of the stewardship of 
this country, where there was never one appropriations bill vetoed in 
that entire time, is an extraordinary story of public negligence and 
even malfeasance.

We are where we are. We are creating jobs. The economy is turning 
around. We had the least loss in the last 11 months. We are beginning 
to see those changes. We will ultimately have the strength in our 
economy to deal with this deficit.














Tribute to David McKean


Madam President, I rise for a different reason right now. It is a 
bittersweet privilege for me to speak about my friend and my counselor, 
David McKean, staff director of the Foreign Relations Committee, who is 
leaving the Senate at the end of this month to become the chief 
executive officer of the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation.

I have enjoyed the benefit of David's advice for almost 20 years now. 
He will be sorely missed. My only consolation is, this son of 
Massachusetts will again be able to vote for me.

He has been a part of my life in the Senate since 1987, when I was a 
freshman and he was a younger and idealistic legislative assistant. 
Over the years, I have drawn significantly on his knowledge and his 
skills. He leaves the Senate now to continue in public life, but he 
leaves it a little bit older but still idealistic and young at heart.

When he came to our office, he had already made a mark. He had 
graduated magna cum laude from Harvard College and received a law 
degree from


Duke University and a master's degree from the Fletcher School of Law 
and Diplomacy. He also taught English at the Waterford Kamhlaba School 
in Swaziland, Africa. But he was a crusading soul deeply interested in 
public policy, with a zeal for investigations and an instinct to hold 
Washington accountable. He was looking for a place to put all those 
interests to work in the Senate, and he found it.

But he also found something more, I might add--much more--that summer 
of 1987. There was a young Kellogg fellow from the University of 
Pennsylvania working in my office at that time. Her name was Kathleen 
Kaye. She was extraordinarily smart and committed. David did not fail 
to notice those qualities and a lot more. Their marriage and their 
three wonderful children, who I am pleased to say are with us right 
now, Shaw, Christian, and Kaye, are a tribute and more to the 
relationship they share.

David has devoted his career to public service. After 5 years of 
working in my office, he moved across the Capitol as chief of staff to 
another member of the Massachusetts delegation, Representative Joe 
Kennedy. He later became special counsel at the Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission before returning home to the Senate as deputy chief 
counsel at the Governmental Affairs Committee and staff director of the 
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.

I failed to mention that before going to the Permanent Subcommittee, 
he worked with my staff early in his career in helping to develop one 
of the great investigative efforts in the Senate in recent memory, 
which was the BCCI investigation. That wound up on the cover of Time 
magazine and was a seminal report--one of the best reports I have seen 
in the 26 years I have been here.

In 1999, I was lucky to entice him to come back to my office as chief 
of staff. It turned out to be his longest tenure in any of those public 
jobs so far. Earlier this year, when I became chairman of the Foreign 
Relations Committee, he became the staff director.

David is the ultimate team builder and a magnet for great talent, so 
he would be the first to tell you that his success did not come single-
handedly. But it is clear David played the essential role in turning 
2009 into a stellar year for the committee and for its new chairman. 
Under his guidance, we conducted 125 hearings on topics ranging from 
Afghanistan to Zimbabwe. We secured passage of the Enhanced Partnership 
with Pakistan Act, and we won approval of legislation bringing far-
reaching reform to our foreign assistance program. He has worked 
tirelessly with the committee members and the White House over the past 
year, and our record is a testament to his determination and skill. I 
think our committee has succeeded in going through the nominations of 
more people and passing them more rapidly to the floor than any other 
in the Senate, and I congratulate him for that effort.

Somehow, during his career of service, he has found time to indulge 
in his passion for history and scholarship. He is the author of a 
highly acclaimed biography of Tommy Corcoran, the ultimate Washington 
insider. He also wrote a biography of Clark Clifford, which was a New 
York Times ''notable book of the year,'' and he is the coauthor of 
''The Great Decision,'' which skillfully, and perhaps surprisingly, 
transformed the story behind the Supreme Court's landmark Marbury v. 
Madison case into what the Washington Post called ''a political 
thriller.''

As those of you in this body know, we are--all of us--really only as 
capable or competent as our staff. Over the years, I have depended on 
David McKean at every stage. He has been the consummate adviser--
trustworthy, loyal, unafraid of speaking up when I was about to veer 
off in the wrong direction--which, clearly, was very seldom indeed. 
Never was he more valuable to me than in the immediate aftermath of the 
2004 Presidential election. Forty-eight hours after an election night--
and early morning and early afternoon--that didn't end up the way that 
I had hoped it might, I returned to the Senate for a vote. Back to 
work. I don't remember what the vote was about, but I do remember that 
David was there with a plan to get us through the day and the next 2 
years. I will miss that wisdom and guidance.

Our loss is the Kennedy Library's gain. In some ways, I think 
something like the Kennedy Library is the perfect place for this man 
who is at heart a scholar and an intellectual. But the Kennedy Library 
is particularly well-suited to David because it is a place Jackie 
Kennedy hoped would help turn history into advocacy and activism, and I 
have no doubt David's vision and experience will help to ensure that 
the legacy of President Kennedy endures to inspire future generations.

Madam President, I want to close by simply saying that my colleagues 
and I are grateful for David's distinguished service. I will personally 
miss him very much. I wish him, Kathleen, and their children my very 
best as they return home to Massachusetts to start this next special 
chapter in David's career in public service.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.