# None
## `1fe2deab32cd8df84492be4f2ef352bd`
`Mr. ALEXANDER â€” 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, over the last several days, the Nation 
has watched Ken Burns' film on World War II. As I mentioned on the 
floor earlier, it is likely to take its place along with the series on 
''Roots,'' along with Ken Burns' own film on the Civil War, along with 
Super Bowls, as a part of our collective memory.

I saw a preview of Mr. Burns' film about 2 months ago at the Library 
of Congress. My wife and I went there with some others. He showed it. 
We got a sense of how remarkable it was.

He said that it represented the time in our history when our country 
pulled together more than at any other time. Of course, all of us have 
seen how that ability to pull together, to be one as a Nation, prepared 
us for so many great accomplishments over the past half century--great 
universities, great military power, producing nearly a third of all the 
wealth in the world for 5 percent of the world's people.

It also produced an era that is instructive to us on how well we as a 
country do when we work together. I think it is fitting this bill is on 
the floor at the time Ken Burns' film is on television. It is fitting 
because this war has been one that has divided us. We have not been 
able to unite on it, although I strongly believe we should speak with a 
single voice on it, and have said so by sponsoring--along with Senator 
Salazar and 15 other Senators--legislation that would give us a chance 
to do that by implementing the recommendations of the Baker-Hamilton 
Iraq Study Group.

But I am not here today to argue the importance of what I believe the 
Baker-Hamilton recommendations offer us. I simply want to note it is 
appropriate that the pending bill is being managed by Senator Inouye 
and Senator Stevens. Senator Inouye is pictured numerous times during 
his service with the 442nd Division, which fought bravely in Europe 
during World War II. His heroism in that war won him the Congressional 
Medal of Honor. He was a Japanese American. Japanese Americans were, as 
the film reminds us, quarantined, reviled, discriminated against, but 
there he was, risking his life and limb to win the Congressional Medal 
of Honor.



He was in the same hospital in Italy that our former Majority Leader 
Bob Dole was in. They were wounded about the same time, and they served 
here together in the Senate for many years.

Then, on the other side of the aisle, the bill manager on the 
Republican side, is Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska. He was also in that 
war. He flew the first plane to land in Beijing after World War II 
ended. Senator Stevens was a member of the Flying Tigers, who are 
prominently mentioned in the film.

A group of us Senators were in China last year, in a delegation led 
by Senator Inouye and Senator Stevens. They were received with enormous 
respect because the Chinese remember Senator Stevens' contribution to 
their country, and they know, of course, of Senator Inouye's heroism 
and leadership.

I think it is appropriate, at a time when we are debating Defense 
appropriations, when we are considering the motto ''E Pluribus Unum,'' 
how we take this magnificent diversity in this country and make it one 
Nation, that we have the debate on this bill led on this floor by two 
men of that greatest generation, Senator Inouye and Senator Stevens. It 
is appropriate that they be managing this bill.

I thought it important for us to acknowledge that.

I yield the floor and I suggest the absence of a quorum.