# IRAQ AND THE ECONOMY
## `1fff6d6563804b3dc8231fe26c5fc38a`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Sure. And I'm just going to pick up where Mr. 
Hall left off. We both have the pleasure of serving on the 
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee here in Congress. And one 
of the things that we hear about every day is not just the benefits of 
having, oh, $137 billion to invest in infrastructure--let's just pull 
that number out of the air--but what happens if you don't address your 
critical infrastructure needs. Because we hear, for example, that for 
every 1 minute delay that UPS drivers have in congested urban areas in 
New York, in Florida, maybe lesser in Iowa, but unique, different types 
of delays, it imposes enormous economic costs in shipping those goods, 
which is then passed on to consumers all over this country.

So when I fly into the airport in Moline and I have to cross the I-74 
bridge, which is one of the functionally obsolete, structurally 
deficient bridges in my district, and they've got a lane closed down 
either for repair work or because an accident is there, it may take you 
half an hour to drive from one side of the Mississippi River to the 
other side. And all that does is slow down commerce, it slows down 
people. And at a time of rising fuel costs, it adds enormously to the 
prices that we pay to get where we need to go.

And each of us has unique transportation delay issues. Mr. Klein 
comes from an urban area in Florida where traffic congestion in many 
ways is a way of life. And you're sitting there waiting to move, your 
engine is running, and you don't get very high fuel efficiency from 
that expensive fuel you've got. A lot of my constituents live in rural 
parts of Iowa, and for them to get basic goods and services they have 
to drive to a county seat town or to a larger urban area to get what 
they need. And they have larger fuel costs simply to get what they need 
to buy to take care of their basic needs. And when we ignore these 
infrastructure needs that we've been talking about, all it does is have 
very large ripple effects.

But one of the other things that we talked about here is our whole 
energy policy. I am very proud of the fact that my State is, I believe, 
pretty much in the epicenter of the renewable energy explosion. Whether 
it's ethanol, biodiesel, wind energy, one of the things we're trying to 
do is create an environment where we can reduce our dependency on 
foreign oil and not have to worry so much about the impact of what's 
going on with the Iraqi oil fields on our domestic fuel availability.



And so it's very exciting to see the potential, but one of the things 
that's disturbing is when we miss opportunities to do more. So if you 
look at wind energy capacity, most people would be shocked, I think, to 
realize that the State of North Dakota has the highest wind energy 
capacity of any State in the country. So they are a prime location for 
us to sell these wind turbines we're producing in Iowa and start to 
reduce that dependency on foreign oil.

But they've got a problem. It's the exact same problem Mr. Hall and I 
saw with the border patrol down in Arizona, and that is, it's one thing 
to say we need to secure our borders, but if you don't have 
infrastructure in place to access the border, you can't do your job. 
They've got a problem in North Dakota because they don't have a grid 
right now that can handle the energy capacity they would generate and 
put onto the grid and send out to people in Florida and New York, who 
have high demand and don't have the ability to meet their energy needs.

So when we're talking about how this war and the funding for the war 
is impacting Americans, I think that the ripple effect is enormous. And 
we're really only scratching the surface.