---
---

# RECOGNIZING MONTY SLOUGH AND THE DENTON COUNTY VETERANS MEMORIAL
## `200a7abe07a09345ce80850f83e549ef`
`Mr. BURGESS — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to thank Mr. Monty Slough of 
Little Elm, Texas for his years of service in the United States Armed 
Forces, and for his continued service to our country by building a 
memorial to veterans from Denton County, Texas.

After checking records at the Department of Veterans Affairs, Monty 
identified the names of nine fallen service members and created a 
personal way to memorialize their service. Without prompting or 
financial support, Mr. Slough began building a granite tiled memorial 
to Denton County soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines who died in 
service in Iraq or Afghanistan.

Mr. Slough has taken up the honorable but unfortunate task of paying 
respect to fellow veterans who pay the ultimate price while serving our 
country. In his own eloquent words Monty said, ''This isn't going to 
bring them back, but they sure as hell are not going to be forgotten.''

The mobile memorial built by veterans Monty Slough and Dee Cork is an 
example of why we hold our Nation's veterans in such high esteem. I 
believe the character displayed by Mr. Slough and Mr. Cork should be 
highlighted as an example of American civic duty and community support; 
I rise here today to show them that courtesy.

It is with great honor that I recognize Mr. Monty Slough of Little 
Elm, Texas for his dedication to veterans and their families. I thank 
him for his work, I support his mission, and I am honored to represent 
him in the 26th District of Texas.
