# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `2011c544f56049a8b3409b9c7e9f80e5`
`Mr. SMITH of New Jersey — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, the co-Chairs of the Iraq Study Group, former Secretary 
of State James Baker and former House Foreign Affairs Chairman Lee 
Hamilton, wrote late last year: ''There is no magic formula to solve 
the problems of Iraq. However, there are actions that can be taken to 
improve the situation and protect American interests.

''Many Americans are dissatisfied,'' they go on to say, ''not just 
with the situation in Iraq but with the state of our political debate 
regarding Iraq. Our political leaders must build a bipartisan approach 
to bring a responsible conclusion to what is now a lengthy and costly 
war. Our country deserves a debate that prizes substance over rhetoric 
and a policy that is adequately funded and sustainable. The President 
and Congress,'' Baker and Hamilton go on to say, ''must work 
together.''

''The President and Congress must work together.'' ''Our country 
deserves a debate that prizes substance over rhetoric.'' Good advice, 
especially when we are in the middle of a war to


help a suffering people living in a tortured land striving to 
matriculate from dictatorship to democracy.

Like many Americans, Mr. Speaker, I too have serious questions about 
this war, especially its cost in human life. I too am impatient and 
want our men and women brought safely home as quickly as possible.

But with so many Americans and Iraqis and coalition forces at risk, 
it is important to ask what message a nonbinding surge disapproval 
resolution with no force of law might have on a troop surge already 
under way and what message do we send to our troops, our allies, and 
our enemies. Will it demoralize even a little, maybe a lot, those brave 
Americans who have put their lives on the line so that others may be 
free? Will it undermine the resolve, commitment, and solidarity of 
those nations that have stood with us against the hate and murder of 
the extremists? And how will our enemies regard passage of this 
resolution? With celebration? Will they step up their already far too 
robust campaign of terrorism, murder, and suicide bombing?

If the Democratic leadership wants to stop the surge or the war 
itself, bring a measure to the floor to defund it. The debate on 
defunding the war and, most certainly, the vote would have predictable 
clear-cut consequences. The President can't spend money on a war he 
doesn't first get from Congress. But by offering what is essentially a 
sense of the House resolution, the weakest, least effective way of 
driving home a point because it compels nothing, I am concerned that 
the House this week may, unwittingly, significantly hurt the morale of 
our warfighters while empowering the hate mongers. Surely no one in 
this Chamber wants that.