# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `201a90f4de6e0ff9ffc912516d30cbc6`
`Mr. PAUL â€” 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this rule. It's been 
described rather vividly on this side of the aisle how messy this 
process is, so I strongly oppose this.

Of course, I also strongly oppose the funding, especially for the 
funding for the war. This is a war that I've objected to for a very 
long time. This war is going badly. It's not a declared war. We don't 
have a precise enemy. The Taliban is the spoken enemy, and yet the 
Taliban are individuals who have never committed terrorism outside 
their homeland. The Taliban is an outgrowth of the mujahadin, who we 
were at one time allies with, along with Osama bin Laden. So it isn't a 
very neat little war.

Here we are, we are the most powerful Nation in the world, the most 
powerful army ever organized in the history of the world. And yet we 
are fighting a war that essentially is not a war. We're fighting a war 
against individuals that have no tanks, no planes, no ships, no modern 
technology; and we're not doing well. There's something wrong. If it 
were truly a war, a declared war and we knew who the enemy was, the war 
would be over.

The fact that the war is not over after 9 years, it's draining us, 
it's draining us of life and limb, it's draining us of funding. The 
wars in the Middle East have drained trillions of dollars, and we are 
suffering from a severe problem, a financial crisis here at home. So 
it's time that we start looking abroad and looking at what we're trying 
to maintain. We're in over 130 countries, 900 bases. It's 
unsustainable.

It was brought to attention this past week that we were having 
problems. If we were doing well in Afghanistan, we wouldn't be firing 
our generals. We want to put the blame on the generals. If we change 
the generals, everything is going to be okay.

But our generals are trained to fight wars. They're not trained to be 
nation builders and social workers and policemen. So this is a war that 
I see is going to be very difficult, if not impossible, to win until we 
change our policy.