# None
## `201e939ec1642b635684600ecdf40f1c`
`Mr. MARKEY — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in favor of H.R. 3087.

H.R. 3087 requires the Secretary of Defense to report to the Congress 
within 60 days, and every 90 days thereafter, ''on the status of 
planning for the redeployment of the Armed Forces from Iraq.'' This 
bill specifies that the Pentagon is to describe a range of different 
possible scenarios for withdrawal, and create multiple timelines for 
completion of withdrawal. These reports will be valuable to the 
Congress as it carries out its oversight responsibilities and considers 
future legislation regarding Iraq. While it is necessary to require the 
Department of Defense to draft plans for withdrawal for Iraq, it is not 
sufficient. President Bush must finally implement these withdrawal 
plans so that our brave men and women can return home to their families 
having served honorably under extremely difficult conditions.

It is clear that President Bush is content to allow the next 
President to clean up his mess in Iraq, and that is a travesty. The 
bill that we are considering today will at least make that job slightly 
easier for the next President, as the Pentagon will have already drawn 
up detailed plans for our withdrawal from Iraq. As we know only too 
well today, responsible planning and foresight was one of the earliest 
casualties of President Bush's war in Iraq. If the Congress must force 
such planning to be done, so be it.

Mr. Speaker, while I support H.R. 3087 and encourage all members to 
vote for its passage today, it is tragic that due to opposition from 
Republican leaders in the Congress and veto threats by the President, 
we have not yet been able to make further progress on withdrawing our 
troops from Iraq. There was no connection between the 9/11 attacks and 
Saddam Hussein and no nuclear weapons in the sands of Iraq, yet the 
President seems to have no intention of bringing this mistaken and ill-
conceived war to an end. It is a war that has made the United States 
less secure, yet the President refuses to even begin thinking about a 
new strategy. It is long past time for the United States to hand over 
security in Iraq to the Iraqis, and I hope that this bill will move us 
closer to that goal.