# THE ENEMY WITHIN
## `20318cda2c351f71a7e9f35ba830d196`
`Mr. POE — 19 May 2008`

---


Mr. POE. Madam Speaker, U.S. technology in the Nation's defense 
industry is unsurpassed anywhere in the world. Because of this, our 
enemies want to steal it, use it against us, or copy it. They want to 
do it for their own military operations.

Private American corporations are to be commended for their expertise 
in national defense technology development. However, fifth column 
individuals and businesses that sell this sensitive military equipment 
to our enemies are nothing more than modern-day Benedict Arnolds and 
should be treated as such.

Our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, for example, use night-vision 
goggles and night-vision rifle scopes to search out and destroy our 
enemies, but this equipment is being stolen in record numbers by 
businesses and individuals that are selling out America for that filthy 
lucre, or money. I think these people need to be treated as the 
treasonous traitors that they are.

According to USA Today, more than 40 businesses or individuals have 
been charged with stealing or exporting night-vision technology to 
people who are our enemies. Some charged are alleged to have sent the 
equipment to Iran, to China and to al Qaeda affiliates. Nations such as 
China can use reverse technology and copy the highly sensitive 
equipment and use it for their own benefit.

This equipment is also very costly. Each pair of new, high-tech, 
night-vision goggles cost around $4,500. These goggles help our troops 
in the desert of the sun and the valley of the gun in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

USA Today further reports that ITT sent restricted product data to 
China and other countries with intent to outsource production of this 
sensitive equipment. It paid a $100 million fine, and I commend the 
judge for not only ordering the fine but he ordered half of that fine 
to be spent in developing a new generation of night-vision technology.

However, just paying a fine for supplying our enemies with advanced 
defense technology is just the cost of doing business. Corporate 
executives should not be allowed to hide behind the corporate veil when 
it comes to supplying aid and comfort to our enemies.

Crooked execs should not be allowed to buy their way out of jail by 
paying a fine that they don't even pay for. Their corporation pays that 
fine.

If business executives that dealt with our enemies went to jail, 
maybe in Guantanamo Bay prison where we keep other enemies of the 
United States, they might be careful about selling out America for 30 
pieces of silver.

And Congress, rather than investigate steroids in baseball, might 
need to investigate these businesses and individuals who keep buying 
and stealing American equipment and selling it to our enemies. We owe 
our troops this investigation.

And that's just the way it is.
