---
---

# HONORING LT. FLORENCE BACONG CHOE
## `204daa58411cf31b23f25f20f20e628b`
`Mr. HUNTER — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, today I rise in recognition of Lieutenant 
Florence Bacong Choe of San Diego, California. Lt. Choe was a victim of 
a tragic shooting that occurred at Forward Operating Base Shaheen in 
Afghanistan's Northern Balkh province on March 27, 2009.

According to friends and family, Lt. Choe was all Navy. She was born 
at San Diego Naval Hospital and grew up in San Diego, where she 
graduated from Monte Vista High School in 1991. After graduating from 
the University of California, San Diego with a degree in Biology in 
1997, she continued her education and received a Masters degree in 
Public Health Care Administration from San Diego State University in 
2001. Following the events of September 11, 2001, Lt. Choe visited the 
San Diego Navy recruitment office and enlisted as a Lieutenant Junior 
Grade in the U.S. Navy Medical Service Corps.

While serving in her capacity as Healthcare Administrator for Medical 
and Surgical Services at the National Navy Medical Center in Bethesda, 
Maryland, she met her future husband, Lieutenant Commander Chong 
''Jay'' Choe. They were married on June 21, 2004 and in 2006, they 
welcomed the birth of their daughter, Kristin Bacong Choe.

A dedicated service member, Lt. Choe fulfilled various duties in the 
Navy Medical Corps in Japan and San Diego before deploying to 
Afghanistan in May of 2008. It was during this deployment where she 
made the ultimate sacrifice after a shooter, disguised as an Afghan 
Army soldier, opened fire and killed Lt. Choe and Lt. J.G. Francis L. 
Toner IV.

Madam Speaker, for Lt. Choe it was never about self, but about 
family, friends and country. She dedicated her extensive knowledge 
about the medical field to provide quality care for the men and women 
of the U.S. Navy. For her, and the thousands of others who have given 
their lives in the name of freedom and democracy, I ask that this body 
continue to do its best to ensure their deaths were not in vain. May 
God continue to watch over the family and friends of Lt. Florence 
Bacong Choe as her memory, passion and dedication to our country 
continue to live on as we moved forward to a better tomorrow.
