# None
## `2063207252eb9662ad100ed39d20441a`
`Mr. BUYER — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. BUYER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, H.R. 5554, as amended, the Justin Bailey Veterans 
Substance Use Disorders Prevention and Treatment Act of 2008, would 
amend title 38, United States Code, to expand and improve health care 
services available to veterans from the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for substance abuse disorders.

Unfortunately, many veterans who have experienced combat trauma have 
difficulty dealing with the demands of military service and/or 
readjusting to home life often turn to alcohol and drugs to ease the 
pain that has become part of their lives. VA has dedicated more than 
$458 million to improve access and quality of care for veterans who 
require substance use treatment since it began implementing the Mental 
Health Strategic Plan in 2005.

H.R. 5455, however, would be much more comprehensive and require that 
VA provides a ''full continuum of care'' to veterans suffering from 
substance use disorders at all VA medical centers or through contracts 
with local providers. This full continuum of care would include 
comprehensive screening for substance use disorders in all settings, 
detoxification and stabilization services, intensive outpatient and 
residential care, pharmacological treatments, and peer-to-peer and 
family and marital counseling.

This legislation would also direct VA to conduct a pilot program for 
Internet-based substance use disorder treatment for veterans of 
Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom.

Some of our veterans are confronted with a new form of challenge in 
their life, which for some is greater than the warfare which they had 
faced, where it has no clear front and has no clear refuge. And in the 
case of our OIF/OEF veterans in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, over 
30 percent of those veterans who have received VA care have been 
diagnosed with a possible mental health problem and 12 percent of these 
with a possible substance use disorder.

Outreach to every veteran is critical, and I'm pleased that under the 
leadership of Secretary Peake, VA has started contacting nearly 570,000 
recent combat veterans to talk to them about available VA medical care 
and benefits.

Providing a full continuum of care in all settings will go a long way 
to enhance access to care and help at-risk veterans recognize the 
signs, treat the symptoms, and overcome the stigma that prevents many 
veterans from seeking care.



Problems associated with substance use disorder can have lasting 
effects on the mental and physical health of our veterans, and I 
commend the Subcommittee on Health Chairman Michaud and Ranking Member 
Miller for their leadership on the bill.

We can make significant progress in ensuring that the mental health 
wellness care that veterans seek and deserve is available with the 
passage of this bill.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.