---
---

# None
## `20645bac49c4fd2ea90faf07c6f37867`
`Ms. HERSETH — 30 January 2007`

---


Ms. HERSETH. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of House 
Concurrent Resolution 5, a resolution endorsing the designation and 
goals of Hire a Veteran Week. I would like to thank my friends, the 
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Holt) and the gentleman from South 
Carolina (Mr. Brown), for introducing this important resolution.

As the chairwoman of the House Veterans' Affairs Economic Opportunity 
Subcommittee, which maintains jurisdiction over veterans employment and 
re-employment matters, I have been working with the ranking member and 
former chairman of the subcommittee, Mr. Boozman, to explore the 
perceptions, activities, employment practices, and entrepreneurship 
opportunities for former servicemembers.

The men and women serving in the military today are professional, 
highly trained, and motivated. And if given the opportunity, they would 
be valuable additions to our workforce and overall economy.

As we all know, this is a key transitional period for many members of 
our Armed Forces serving overseas. Increasing numbers of service men 
and women are expected to return home from Iraq and Afghanistan. The 
men and women in uniform who defend this country and make our economic 
and political systems possible have earned a fair opportunity to 
successfully transition from military service to civilian life and 
employment.

We have asked hundreds of thousands of our best and brightest, 
including a great number of National Guard and Reservists from South 
Dakota and across the country, to serve overseas in Operations Iraqi 
Freedom and Enduring Freedom.

We owe these brave men and women and their families a great deal for 
their sacrifice during these difficult times. We owe them the 
opportunity to make good on the American Dream they have fought to 
defend. Indeed, our Nation's employers would serve their business, 
their customers, and their bottom line well by hiring a veteran of the 
United States military.

H. Con. Res. 5 helps recognize the achievements of veterans and 
benefits of their employment. I ask my colleagues to support all 
veterans by supporting this resolution.