---
---

# THE STATUS OF ENERGY IN THE WORLD TODAY
## `206aea45609c7bdd2b941142919f7a13`
`Mr. SULLIVAN — 14 April 2008`

---


Mr. SULLIVAN. I thank Congressman Shimkus, and I appreciate your 
leadership today and also on the Energy and Commerce Committee where 
Congressman Shimkus has worked hard on issues to help solve the 
problems in this country.

Congressman Shimkus, you are right. I didn't realize until you showed 
the chart, how much under Democratic leadership oil prices have gone 
up. It is staggering. And gas prices have gone up, too, under 
Democratic leadership in this Congress.

Congressman Shimkus knows, too, that we have tried very hard on the 
Energy and Commerce Committee to have rational, comprehensive solutions 
in this country. We had a bill recently where Congressman Shimkus tried 
to get some of his legislation into this bill that would have helped a 
great deal, the coal-to-liquids technology, and it was stifled. They 
wouldn't allow it in.

What kind of bill did we get. Congressman Shimkus is right, ''no'' is 
not an energy policy. We got no energy policy. We got a bill that was 
energy policy in name only.



What they did was they had those curly light bulbs with mercury from 
China in them and everybody is going to put the bulbs in their homes, 
and that is really going to help our energy solution. That is a step in 
the right direction, I guess, but it is not going to solve our problem.

Also they looked at efficiencies in our appliances, which is a good 
thing, but we need to go much, much further.

One of the things that Congressman Shimkus talked about is supply and 
demand, and that is what this is all about. We haven't built a refinery 
in this country in the last 30 years. Congressman Garrett was talking 
about that. That is a problem. When all of our refineries are operating 
at maximum capacity, you can only get so much fuel out of them. We need 
more refineries in this country, and we can do it in an environmentally 
sound way.

Also, we need to spur domestic production, getting more oil, gas and 
coal in the United States instead of relying on countries, particularly 
in the Middle East, that we have been at war with recently. That is not 
a good idea. If it is in our backyard, let's get it here. Nobody wants 
to hurt the environment. Everybody wants to have clean air, water, and 
land. The oil, gas and coal companies do, too.

We also need in our energy policy to start looking at other energy 
sources as well. That is important, getting away from oil, gas and 
coal, but it is not going to be in the near future. It is a pure 
technology-driven issue. And we need alternative sources of energy. We 
need solar and wind. We need nuclear. We need alternative fuels. We 
need all of those things, but it is going to take time. You can't do it 
immediately. We need to develop those technologies to where they can be 
brought to the public, like batteries in cars developed to where people 
can afford them, and develop and use alternative energy sources. And we 
need to develop more gas and oil here in the United States.


You know, Cuba allows China to drill off the coast of Florida. Yet in 
the United States, we can't drill in a lot of places offshore here in 
the United States. We can't do it.

Also here in the United States there are areas where we can't explore 
in. We hear a lot about the Alaskan Wildlife Reserve. Let's develop 
that here in the United States. There is a vast quantity of oil in the 
Alaskan Wildlife Reserve. We can develop it in an environmentally sound 
way where it is not going to hurt some caribou or anything like that. 
The Alaskan pipeline, they said that was going to happen there, yet the 
caribou actually like the pipeline. They use it for shelter.

But if we develop the Alaskan Wildlife Reserve, let's put it in 
perspective. If ANWR were the size of a football field, the area we are 
talking about drilling in would be the size of a postage stamp on the 
football field. The footprint we drill in would be relatively small. 
Oil and gas companies want to do it in an environmentally sound way. 
And some experts say we could produce at least 2 million barrels a day 
out of ANWR. We were importing almost that much from Saddam Hussein and 
Iraq before the war happened. We could lessen that.

It is ridiculous that we depend so much on countries that have been 
hostile to the United States on something that is so important.

But when we look at energy policy, we need to look at it from a 
multi-pronged approach. We need to look at all of the oil, gas and 
coal. They are here to stay for the time being. But we need to look at 
alternative energy sources as well. I think everybody agrees that is 
important.

We need real solutions. We need real energy policy in this country, 
and we are not getting it from the Democrat-controlled Congress. We 
have worked hard and Congressman Shimkus has worked hard in the 
committee to get these things done, but they stifle them every time. We 
need real solutions to real problems, and this is a problem that if we 
don't address relatively soon, it is going to come home to roost. It is 
a national security issue. We are putting ourselves in jeopardy, and it 
is wrong. It is the wrong thing to do.

Again, I commend Congressman Shimkus for all he does on the Energy 
and Commerce Committee and for doing this special order tonight.