# ASIAN PACIFIC HERITAGE MONTH
## `20735070c829009deded9076a43d0c86`
`Ms. HIRONO — 7 May 2007`

---


Ms. HIRONO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join my fellow Congressional 
Asian Pacific American Caucus, CAPAC members, and my other colleagues 
in celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month.

I'd like to, of course, thank Congressman Honda for organizing this 
special order tonight, and for his leadership shown throughout the year 
in his service as chairman of CAPAC.

The heritage month theme is ''Meeting the Challenges for Asian 
Pacific Americans.'' The APA community has


come a long way since the days when laws excluded us from coming to 
this country, barred us from many places, public places, and worse, 
interned us in camps solely because of our ethnic heritage.



Nationwide, we are now 14 million strong, and in the next 30 years 
the APA population is expected to double to about 8 percent of the 
entire U.S. population.

Because of our history of labor immigration and our indigenous island 
population, Hawaii has had a head start in terms of political 
representation. Our APA communities have lived and worked in our 
islands since the mid-1800s, when the first Chinese laborers were 
imported to work in the sugarcane fields. Since 2000, three of our 
communities, the Okinawans, Koreans, and the Filipinos, have celebrated 
their centennial anniversaries of arrival to the United States and to 
Hawaii.

Hawaii produced the first Governors in the Nation of Japanese and 
Filipino ancestry, George Ariyoshi and Ben Cayetano; the first Native 
Hawaiian Governor, John Waihee; the first Asian American Senators, 
Hiram Fong and Daniel Inouye; the first Senator of Native Hawaiian 
ancestry, Daniel Akaka; the first Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander 
Member of Congress, Prince Jonah Kuhio Kalanianaole; and the first 
woman of color to serve in Congress, Patsy Takemoto Mink. And I am 
privileged to have served as Hawaii's Lieutenant Governor, becoming the 
first immigrant woman of Asian ancestry elected to statewide office and 
to be able to continue my service here as the first immigrant born in 
Japan serving in Congress.

Asian and Pacific Islander Members of Congress currently number only 
nine, including Eni Faleomavaega, our delegate from American Samoa. 
Also with me in the House are Congress Members Mike Honda and Doris 
Matsui, Oregon's David Wu, Virginia's Robert Scott, and Louisiana's 
Bobby Jindals. In the Senate we have Hawaii's two senior statesmen, 
Senators Daniel Inouye and Daniel Akaka.

Although the successes of our APA community over the years have been 
many, there is another side to our story that is not often discussed. 
While more Asians have college degrees than any other group in the 
country, we also have more people who have not graduated from high 
school compared with other ethnic groups. And while APAs have higher 
incomes, the U.S. Census counts 1.3 million Asian and Pacific Islanders 
living in poverty. There are still many wrongs to be righted. Some of 
them are decades old.

On March 1, 2007, I reintroduced the Filipino Veterans Family 
Reunification Act, H.R. 1287, a companion bill to S. 671, introduced by 
Senator Akaka. It will accelerate the immigration process for the sons 
and daughters of the Filipino veterans who fought with our American 
troops in World War II. I am also a cosponsor of the Filipino Veterans 
Equity Act, H.R. 760, to fulfill our promise of full veterans' benefits 
to those Filipino soldiers.

I know that questions have been raised about the cost of carrying out 
our obligation to the Filipino World War II veterans. The Congressional 
Budget Office has estimated that the cost of enacting H.R. 760 will be 
$1 billion over a 10-year period. While this is a large sum, it is 
worth noting that the United States spends approximately $9 billion 
each month in the war in Iraq.

Challenges are also facing our Native Hawaiian population. The desire 
for self-determination by the indigenous people of my home State has 
been ignored for far too long by the Federal Government. Native 
Hawaiians remain the only indigenous group in our country still 
awaiting Federal recognition similar to the recognition Congress has 
granted to American Indians and Alaska Natives. H.R. 505, the Native 
Hawaiian Government Reorganization Act, would set up a process for 
Native Hawaiians to organize a government entity.

By continuing to work together, I am hopeful that we will be able to 
meet these challenges as we have overcome others in the past. This 
month Washington, D.C. is hosting the Eighth Pacific Islands Conference 
of Leaders, PICL. The triennial PICL brings together the heads of 
government and senior officials from the Pacific, including Hawaii and 
the U.S. Pacific Territories. This is the first time that the group has 
met in Washington, D.C., and it is quite an opportunity for all of us 
here to find common ground on issues facing the Pacific region and our 
world.

In closing, I would again like to thank Congressional Asian Pacific 
American Caucus Chairman Honda for allowing us this opportunity to 
reflect upon how far our APA community has come and yet, of course, 
remember how much further our community has to go.

Mahalo and aloha.