---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `207651c3c7bd20747a6850f01d29a110`
`Ms. LEE — 15 May 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this continued 
occupation in Iraq, and I want to thank Chairman Obey for his 
leadership and for yielding me this time. I'm so much opposed to giving 
this President this new funding to continue this occupation with no 
strings attached until last night, once again, I went to the Rules 
Committee to propose the Lee amendment, which would provide funding 
only for the safe, responsible redeployment of our troops and 
contractors, and also for a strong diplomatic initiative. Not one dime 
should be spent anymore for funding this combat operation.

We just left a hearing of our Winter Soldiers. These young men and 
women told us about the dehumanizing effects of what has happened to 
them in terms of our troops. This has got to stop.

One of their first requests was to ask us not to vote for any more 
funding, to fund only redeployment and to bring them home.

In honor of our troops, let's bring them home and not send any more 
money over there to fight this war.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the continued occupation 
in Iraq and I want to thank my Chairman, David Obey for his leadership 
and for yielding me the time. I am opposed to giving this president 
$180 billion with no strings attached to continue the disastrous war 
and occupation in Iraq as amendment No. 1 does.

The war and occupation in Iraq has put our country and economy in a 
hole. When you are in a hole, you've got to stop digging and climb your 
way out. Today that means funding the


safe redeployment of our American troops and contractors out of Iraq.

The Lee Amendment I offered at the Rules Committee would have 
accomplished that but it was not made in order. So I have no choice but 
to vote against providing more funding for Iraq.

Unlike amendment No. 1, amendment No. 2 contains important 
restrictions and limitations on funding and would begin redeployment of 
our troops within 30 days. The second amendment also contains two 
restrictions and conditions that I have long championed. The first is 
the prohibition against the establishment of permanent military bases 
in Iraq. The second condition prohibits the President from unilaterally 
binding the U.S. to an agreement with the Government of Iraq that 
includes security assurances for mutual defense.

Finally, I support amendment No. 3 which provides urgent funding for 
domestic and international priorities, including a new GI bill for our 
brave veterans, extension of unemployment benefits, funding for 
peacekeeping operations in Darfur, and urgently needed international 
food and disaster assistance.

The sad fact is that in the last 5 years this Administration has 
spent nearly a half trillion dollars on the Iraq war and occupation and 
we have precious little to show for it. Iraq has been destabilized, our 
national prestige has been tarnished, and national attention has been 
diverted from the real and urgent challenges facing the American 
people.

Over 4,000 American troops and tens of thousands of Iraqis have died, 
more than 30,000 Americans are wounded, and more than 4 million Iraqis 
are displaced.

It is far past time to stop the madness.

I urge a ''no'' vote on amendment No. 1. I urge a ''yes'' vote on 
amendment No. 2 and No. 3. We must redeploy and honor our troops by 
bringing them home.