---
---

# None
## `207fbadda3fd2e41b390904b98ded471`
`Mr. INHOFE — 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, on February 6 of 2007, the 
administration announced their intention to create a new unified 
command, the United States African Command, or AFRICOM. The U.S.-Africa 
command is a partnership between military and civilian communities that 
will focus on existing programs such as the training of peacekeeping 
forces that enable African nations and regional organizations to 
improve security on the continent. The National Security Adviser, 
Stephen Hadley, said:




 AFRICOM is a command that would be established for Africa . 


 . . It would be a partnership, really, between military and 


 civilians, and its principal focus would be to continue some 


 of the activities that we are already doing to try and train 


 peacekeeping forces so that countries in Africa and regional 


 organizations in Africa can take more of a role in dealing 


 with the conflicts and the problems on the continent.


It is ironic that we have these COMs, these commands all over the 
world. Yet Africa is divided into three commands: the Pacific Command, 
the European Command, and the Central Command. Africa has now become, 
in my opinion, the most significant continent that we need to pay more 
attention to.

I think I am uniquely qualified to talk about this. Two days ago, I 
made my 97th African country visit. The last country we were in this 
last week--there were some five countries--was Ethiopia, a very 
significant part of it.

I also started my efforts in Africa long before we had a lot of 
military interest in Africa. Mine was more of a mission type of thing. 
I became very familiar with all of Africa. I now have had an 
opportunity to sit down and visit personally and develop intimate 
relations with the Presidents of some 28 African nations, their 
Parliaments and many of the leaders there.

As a matter of fact, I was in Ethiopia 7 years ago, when we came upon 
a little girl. She had nothing. The little girl was an orphan. She was 
3 days old. She wasn't healthy--didn't look like she would live at all. 
They put her into an orphanage, where they did the very best with what 
they had. Like so many orphanages, she was actually put in a bucket. 
They had this cute little girl in there, feeding her intravenously 
through her scalp at the time.

Anyway, there is a long story that goes with that, but the short 
version is my wife and I have been married 48 years and have 20 kids 
and grandkids and one of our daughters, Molly Rapert, had only boys. 
She wanted a little girl so she adopted this girl. This is my adopted 
African granddaughter.

It is kind of funny. She was found abandoned as an orphan in Addis 
Abba, in Ethiopia. Yet this little girl has turned into quite a genius. 
In fact, 3 weeks ago at the National Prayer Breakfast I was in charge 
of the African dinner. I say to the Presiding Officer, this little 
granddaughter of mine was the speaker that night--7 years old. I have 
more than a passing interest in Africa. It is a family interest too.

During my time on the continent, I have seen the significant and 
strategic place in the world that Africa holds because of the sheer 
size of Africa. People don't realize, if we go from Mauritania to 
Ethiopia, east to west, it takes 7 hours flying. If you go from north 
to south, from Cape Town up to Algeria, it is 9 hours. It is a huge 
continent.



The rest of the world is now realizing its importance. I think our 
timing is very good. It is only a year ago that we embarked upon this 
idea that we were going to be holding up Africa and supporting it. A 
lot of people don't realize the significance of Africa, that Africa is 
the area where, as the squeeze takes place in the Middle East on 
terrorism, a lot of it goes down through the Horn of Africa, through 
Djibouti and that area, and spreads out throughout Africa.

Other countries are realizing how important it is. They are doing 
something about it. The new French President, Sarkozy, said during a 
recent trip to South Africa that Africa should have at least one 
permanent seat in the U.N. Security Council and that France would no 
longer accept major world affairs being discussed without a leading 
African country being involved.

There are many countries, such as China, expanding influence in 
Africa. I can tell you that, as you go through Africa, anything that is 
new and shiny--a bridge, a colosseum, anything such as that that is 
given to them by China. China is trying to get a foothold there.

China has the same problem in its dependency on outside sources for 
oil as we do. They are beating us to some of these areas in Africa. 
Huge reserves are being developed in Africa. All that is very 
significant.

Currently, over 700 Chinese state companies conduct business in 
Africa, making China the continent's third largest trading partner. The 
United States and France are first and second.

I have also seen, in my many travels to Africa, the great strength 
and perseverance in the African people, in their fight to overcome 
great obstacles such as HIV/AIDS, malaria, poverty, wars. In order to 
achieve security and stability, we have to work to eliminate the root 
causes of poverty and poor governance. Fighting terrorism in the region 
has become critical. Examples of terrorism we remember--it was not too 
long ago the bombings of our embassies in Tanzania and in Kenya and 
more recently the bombings in Morocco and Algeria. African countries 
have become more vulnerable as al-Qaida has infiltrated into the Horn 
of Africa.


As the surge is working--yesterday after leaving Africa, I went to 
the European command and looked at the progress we are making. We were, 
yesterday afternoon, in Iraq. Good things are happening there. The 
surge is clearly working. As the surge works, what happens is, as I 
described, a lot of the terrorist activities go down into the most 
convenient place and the most vulnerable and that is the continent of 
Africa.

It has been reported terrorist networks in Somalia and Eritrea work 
together, increasing their capability. If you go into northern Uganda--
this is something very few people know about. Everyone knows about the 
problems in the Sudan and many of the other areas of Africa. But how 
many people know the children's Army being developed by a man named 
Joseph Kony. The LRA, the Lord's Resistance Army, for 30 years now they 
have been taking kids out of villages, little 11-, 12-, 13-, 14-year-
old kids, teaching them to be soldiers. Once they learn to be soldiers, 
they have them take an automatic weapon and go back to their villages 
and murder their family. If they don't do this, they maim them, they 
cut their ears and lips off. This has been going on for a long time. 
These horrible things are going on, and a lot of that is because we, 
the free world, have not given our attention to Africa that we should 
have a long time ago. We see the conflicts in Kenya taking place right 
now, the young democracy that has unfortunately exploded into tribal 
conflict. More than 1,000 people after the December election were 
killed. Last month, there were 500 European Union troops who were sent 
to protect Chad's capital from being taken over by the rebels; 3,700 EU 
troops are presently protecting thousands of refugees along Chad's 
border with Sudan as well as the neighboring Central African Republic. 
In February, the United Nations ordered its regional force to withdraw 
to Ethiopia after the Eritrean Government cut their field supplies.

Let's keep in mind it was Eritrea, when we had the problem in 
Somalia, that went down and sided with the terrorists. It was, of 
course, Ethiopia that joined us, as well as other countries such as 
Uganda and Burundi.

The United States has a long history offering support, helping 
establish security on the African Continent. Thomas Jefferson was the 
first President to send American troops to the coast of Africa to ward 
off the Barbary pirates plaguing the Mediterranean and threatening the 
security of Europe and the new colonies. This is kind of funny. That 
was Thomas Jefferson. Today the same thing is happening in the Sea of 
Guinea. They have new discoveries of oil so there is pirating going on, 
and we are over there trying to help the surrounding countries defend 
themselves. This command is going to go a long ways toward doing that.

We continue to support African nations in the area for security and 
stability and health and education initiatives. In 2003, the United 
States helped to bring stability to Liberia. In Djibouti, the Combined 
Joint Task Force for the Horn of Africa has been involved in 
developmental activities, including building schools and digging wells. 
I have had occasion to be in Eritrea several times. It is probably the 
least known country in Africa. It is becoming better known because of 
all the atrocities that are taking place there. The administration 
recently pledged $15 billion through the President's emergency plan for 
AIDS relief and significantly is contributing to the fight on AIDS.

People complain: Why are we spending money to help Africans on HIV/
AIDS? That is their problem. They are dealing with their problems 
themselves.

I had occasion last week to be with the First Lady of Zambia. The 
First Ladies all throughout Africa are the ones who are doing the most 
to combat HIV/AIDS. The First Lady of Zambia has put together a group 
of First Ladies who are significantly having an impact. President 
Gbagbo's wife Simone in Cote d'Ivoire is very actively attacking the 
problem there. Janet Museveni in Uganda has been honored in the United 
States for her work on HIV/AIDS. Most recently, the one I think is 
really doing the best job is the wife of the Prime Minister of 
Ethiopia. Prime Minister Zenawi's wife Azeb is heading up a group that 
is having great positive impact on HIV/AIDS. So they are helping 
themselves.

The United States is partnering with African countries in effective 
programs such as IMET. I am on the Armed Services Committee, and it is 
one of the strongest programs we have to develop close relations with 
other countries. It is a military program where we invite the officers 
to come over and get trained with our officers. Once they are trained 
with our officers, that develops a bond that stays there from then on. 
If we don't do it, other countries such as China are willing to.

We have dramatically improved our train-and-equip sections so that we 
can help commanders in the field train and equip other countries. 
Primarily, my concern is in Africa, and that is happening. Those 
programs are proving to be vital resources by aiding developing 
countries in the professionalism of their militaries.

Africa is an avenue that the United States can use to aid Africa as 
it continues to grow into a secure democratic continent with a growing 
economy. Africa's challenges, its growing strategic significance, and 
the potential impact of failing states and ungoverned areas on U.S. 
security will require increased emphasis on interagency cooperation.

Currently, the African Continent is divided between three commands. 
You have the Pacific Command, the Central Command, and the European 
Command. The division of responsibilities has caused problems in 
coordinating activities and creating seams between commands, especially 
in key areas of instability or of conflict. One seam creating 
difficulty lies between Sudan--under the CENTCOM, or the Central 
Command--and Chad, immediately adjoining it, and the Central African 
Republic. The last one is under the European Command. They are right 
next to each other but under two different commands. Bureaucratically, 
it is a nightmare; you can't coordinate activities.

The recent conflict in Chad and the continuing conflict in Sudan 
emphasize the need for the United States to respond to these conflicts 
and to be unified. As AFRICOM becomes operational, these divided 
responsibilities


will no longer exist. It is set up to be operational by October of this 
year.

We have a great guy who is going to be commanding general. He has 
already been confirmed, GEN William ''Kip'' Ward. Kip Ward's military 
service includes tours all over the world but with a real emphasis and 
interest in Africa. He was confirmed by the Senate in September. 
General Ward has expressed a vision of hope for Africa and for the role 
the United States plays in that vision. General Ward believes in the 
need to address crisis situations before they arise and to address them 
at the microlevel, at the perspective of the individual victim, which 
is critical in bringing about solutions. AFRICOM's aim will be a 
preventative approach on the local level, giving hope in times of 
adversity and a way forward for the future in both security and 
development. General Ward is the right guy for the job. He has stressed 
that the purpose of the command is to enable African solutions to 
African challenges, to support African leadership rather than usurping 
or suppressing African leadership and sovereignty. This is very 
important.

It was the right military decision for us in the United States to 
become interested in helping Africans develop five African commands. 
These would be north, south, east, west, and central. Only two of the 
locations have been determined right now. But we make it very clear to 
Africa, we are not doing this. We are not the ones who are putting the 
brigades in there. We are helping them to put their own brigades there 
so they can take care of their own problems.

In Somalia, African countries such as Ethiopia, Burundi, and Uganda 
have sent in troops to help stabilize the government there. We couldn't 
have done that without the support of Africans. The African Union 
troops have recently arrived in the Comoros Islands near Madagascar to 
help its military regain control of an island where a renegade leader 
has declared himself President. The development of the African standby 
brigades is a good example of how we are helping them to help 
themselves.

So AFRICOM is expected to become fully operational the first of 
October 2008. It is going to be at least temporarily located in 
Stuttgart, Germany. My personal preference would be to have it 
someplace in Africa. Right now, there is some resistance to that, so we 
will keep it in Stuttgart for the time being.


In fiscal year 2008, Congress appropriated $75 million to the 
command, and in fiscal year 2009, the President has requested $389 
million. I know this sounds like a lot of money, but I can't think of 
anyplace where we can actually save money more than by helping the 
Africans build up themselves and bring their allegiance in to us. We 
have to support AFRICOM with adequate funding to enable the command to 
be fully equipped to face the challenges they have only in Africa.

I already introduced a resolution that is S. Res. 480. I am joined by 
about 12 or 14 Members. I invite my friends from both sides of the 
aisle who have a heart for Africa and believe in what we are doing to 
join in this resolution. The resolution encourages the Department of 
Defense and the State Department and USAID to work cooperatively with 
our African friends to bring hope to the continent. So often, when you 
try to put together a program such as train and equip, the State 
Department seems to think that the Department of Defense is taking away 
some of its power. It becomes a turf battle. We don't want that to 
happen. It looks as if it will not happen in this case. The resolution 
emphasizes that AFRICOM is expected to support, not shape, U.S. foreign 
policy in Africa so that we would be working together.

Finally, I encourage my friends in Africa to work together with 
AFRICOM to find solutions to issues facing Africans today. Under 
General Ward's leadership, I believe AFRICOM can provide that hope to 
the people, and I believe that is going to happen.

I was in a Stuttgart meeting, the first official meeting of a Member 
of Congress with the new African Command or the new AFRICOM. I became 
convinced, looking around the table at all the people, this is the 
first time you see many of the bureaucracies sitting around the same 
table. This didn't happen before because it was not a unified command. 
This unified command will allow that to happen.

There is no place in the world that needs more attention by us right 
now. When you talk about the war on terror, the next area we will have 
to concentrate on is Africa. By taking these steps now, Africans will 
be prepared to handle their own problems and not have us do it for 
them.

I am very pleased with the successes we have had. We have been 
talking about a new African Command now for about 10 years. Finally, it 
will become a reality this year.

We need to encourage a lot of people to start participating, maybe to 
the same level I am participating with the country of Africa. It is a 
beautiful thing that is happening right now. I believe we are going to 
make great progress as a result of the African Command.

I yield the floor.