---
---

# YEAR OF THE MILITARY FAMILY
## `208b21978b3d20fa7e303a094947b044`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 11 March 2009`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. I am honored to have a moment to speak on this 
resolution, and deeply grateful to Chairman Skelton for introducing it 
and advancing it.

You know, they say that an army travels on its stomach. In other 
words, the physical well-being of an army has to be taken into 
consideration. They have to be well fed, they have to be cared for.

The way you win wars though, comes from the heart and mind of our 
soldiers, sailors, and airmen. And the way that you motivate them is to 
assure them that this country is providing for their families. That is 
what they care about more than anything else.

When they go to war, when they choose to serve this country in the 
Armed Services, their principal motivation, really, is their family. 
They are doing this to provide security to their children, to their 
parents, to their loved ones. And that is what this resolution is all 
about, recognizing the indispensable role that military families play.

We have lost more than 2,000 parents of young children in Iraq. But 
hundreds of thousands have known that when they say goodbye to their 
daddy or mommy, they may not see them again. And they have to live with 
that reality.

They comfort each other, families get to know each other, provide a 
support network. But it's absolutely essential that we, as a Nation, 
understand that we are putting these families on the front line. That 
they are prepared to pay the ultimate sacrifice, that they are fully 
prepared to do whatever it takes to ensure that we have soldiers, 
sailors, airmen and women who will go to war, will risk their lives, 
knowing that they have the support of their families at home.

Now, we have tried to put more money into the veterans' bill to 
improve health care, particularly the type of health care that we have 
found a particular compelling need for--permanent brain injury, post-
traumatic stress disorder, mental illnesses--that have increased 
dramatically in the last few years, particularly with IEDs and the 
violence that they cause in Iraq and Afghanistan. But when they come 
home, if we don't adequately treat them, the price is paid by the 
family.

It's the family that has to deal with sometimes uncontrollable 
violent urges, where the veteran of combat finds it difficult to 
control themselves, to make that transition to the society in which 
they need to take on the role of husband, wife, or parent.

All of these challenges are even greater than they have ever been 
before. And that is why this Congress, this Nation, needs to take every 
opportunity to focus on the needs of these families who show real 
patriotism and real loyalty to the principles and ideals and values of 
this Nation, and are willing to sacrifice whatever it takes to uphold 
those principles, ideals, and values, even the risk of loss of a loved 
one.

So, with that, Mr. Chairman, again, I thank you for introducing, for 
promoting this resolution and, most importantly, I thank you for being 
conscious of what this resolution is all about every single day 
throughout the year in the legislation that the Armed Services 
Committee and your colleagues in the Congress pass. It has to be a 
priority.

So, I know this will pass unanimously, and I appreciate the fact that 
it's offered on the floor today.