---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `2090b8051d37a540c9a139e6418f31ea`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 
312, the Budget Resolution for fiscal year 2009. This proposal fulfills 
an important commitment that we have made to the American people by 
investing in fiscally responsible tax relief to millions of households 
and in programs that strengthen the economy, make America safer, and 
help families struggling to make ends meet in an economic downturn.

On February 6, I expressed my strong concerns over the misguided 
budget request that the President transmitted to Congress. I am very 
pleased to see that the budget before us today restores many of the 
important programs that the President proposed to cut, while achieving 
balance by 2012. It is more vital than ever that we remain responsive 
to the needs of the American people, while maintaining strong fiscal 
stewardship to ensure our financial obligations are not passed along to 
our children and grandchildren.

Any budgetary blueprint that we expect to bolster the economy must 
also include an investment in education and job training programs that 
will promote new employment and ensure our workforce can adapt to the 
jobs of the future. Unfortunately, those programs were not priorities 
for this Administration. Under the President's proposal, Rhode Island 
would see $1.5 million less for after-school programs and a cut of 
almost $6 million for career and technical education. In contrast, the 
Democratic budget resolution would provide $7.1 billion more than the 
President for vital education, job training, and social services 
programs nationwide in 2009.

I am pleased that this resolution addresses the President's failure 
to make higher education affordable for students with economic 
challenges, especially in Rhode Island, where college tuition has risen 
45 percent in 4 years. This measure also includes crucial funding for 
the Democratic innovation agenda and the America COMPETES Act, which 
will enhance our edge in math and science education and research. To 
maintain our economic advantage in the coming years, our Nation must 
invest more in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, STEM, 
education.

Also critical to America's economic prosperity is a budget that 
promotes fiscally responsible tax relief to millions of families 
struggling to make ends meet. In particular, this measure includes a 1-
year patch to keep millions of hard-working, middle-class Americans 
outside the ever-widening net of the alternative minimum tax, AMT, and 
it is fully offset. In addition, the Democratic budget will extend the 
R&D tax credit, which will spur economic growth, create new jobs, and 
help struggling small businesses regain their competitive edge.


Community development and social services programs will play an 
important role for businesses and families as we attempt to reclaim our 
economic prosperity, and I am proud to support a budget that funds 
these initiatives. This budget restores community and regional 
development programs, like the Community Development Block Grant, CDBG, 
program, which provides vital funding for economic and community 
development in both urban and rural areas nationwide. The House 
Democratic budget resolution also reverses cuts to the Low Income Home 
Energy Assistance Program, LIHEAP, and the Weatherization Assistance 
Program, which helps people actually reduce their energy consumption. 
These programs are vital to places like Rhode Island where families are 
struggling with astronomical heating costs.

This budget resolution also includes $1.2 billion more than the 
President's budget for energy programs. As families face unprecedented 
costs to heat their homes and put gas in their cars, it is imperative 
that we fund efficient and renewable energy programs. H. Con. Res. 312 
does this by encouraging the production of renewable energy 
alternatives, increasing energy efficiency, investing in new energy and 
vehicle technologies, and training workers for ''green collar'' jobs. 
This resolution also encourages mass transit by increasing funding for 
Amtrak. I am proud that Rhode Island has already started many of these 
initiatives, but Democrats recognize that we need to support them on a 
broad, nationwide basis.

Equally important during this challenging economic time is the 
continued need for strong health care funding. The Democratic budget 
measure rejects the President's proposed 10-year cut of over $500 
billion to both Medicare and Medicaid, two vital safety net programs 
serving our Nation's elderly, low-income, and disabled citizens. It 
also provides


an increase over the President's proposed discretionary health care 
budget to fund programs that emphasize support for disease-prevention, 
food safety, and access to quality health care for underserved 
populations. I am also very pleased to see that this budget will 
accommodate up to a $50 billion increase to expand children's health 
insurance to cover millions of uninsured children.

Health care also remains the highest priority for our Nation's 
veterans and the brave men and women currently serving in our Armed 
Forces. This resolution appropriately addresses veterans' needs by 
rejecting the President's proposed new fees and increasing veterans 
funding by $3.6 billion relative to the amount needed to keep pace with 
inflation. This will provide increased resources for the VA to treat 
5.8 million patients in 2009, including 333,275 Iraq and Afghanistan 
war veterans. We cannot lose sight of the fact that the VA will play a 
larger role in the coming years as more servicemembers return from 
ongoing conflicts.

As the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emerging 
Threats, Cybersecurity, Science and Technology, I am proud to support a 
budget that properly invests in our homeland security. Unlike the 
President's budget, this resolution provides robust funding for 
programs important to State and local law enforcement in Rhode Island, 
including the State Homeland Security Grant Program, which awarded 
$34.8 million to Rhode Island from 2004 to 2007, and the Law 
Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program, LETPP, from which Rhode 
Island received $11.5 million from 2004 to 2006. By passing the 
Democratic budget, we can give local law enforcement officials in Rhode 
Island the tools they need to continue to keep our citizens safe.

The Democratic budget resolution also makes America safer by 
investing in our Nation's transportation systems, including highways 
and waterways, providing sufficient funding as well as a reserve fund 
to facilitate new infrastructure initiatives. This budget also meets 
the President's funding level for the Department of Defense, but shifts 
resources to high priorities such as nuclear nonproliferation programs, 
which was a recommendation of the 9/11 Commission. Finally, this 
resolution responds to the current hardships faced by our 
servicemembers by funding quality of life improvements for the troops 
as well as their families.

In this time of uncertainty, the American people are relying on us as 
decisionmakers to put forth a plan that will restore our economic 
prosperity, strengthen our national security, provide relief where it 
is needed, and promote fiscal discipline. Today, I am pleased to rise 
in support of a Democratic proposal that will accomplish each one of 
these goals. This budget resolution represents a new roadmap toward 
achieving the true priorities of Americans, and I urge my colleagues to 
join me in voting yes on this measure.