---
---

# None
## `20a0032ff069ef18005b325069c2f4ad`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I rise in support of passing the bill 
that is on the Senate floor; that is, the SAFETEA-LU technical 
corrections bill. When we look at the bill that is of the magnitude of 
the SAFETEA-LU bill and its extraordinary importance in our economy, 
there are bound to be some drafting errors and issues. I am glad we are 
taking the time to correct these errors so we can continue to 
strengthen our national infrastructure and our economy.

As a member of the Environment and Public Works Committee, I applaud 
Senator Boxer's leadership in getting this bill to the floor. This bill 
is a step in the right direction as this Congress focuses more and more 
attention on our national infrastructure.

I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill, as well as future 
efforts, to strengthen our national infrastructure.

The Presiding Officer, being a Senator from Colorado, knows and I 
know there is a new economy in the future. It is the energy economy. 
But if we are going to move forward the next century's economy, we 
cannot be stuck in the last century's transportation system.

I believe when you invest in infrastructure, you invest in the 
American economy. Rebuilding Main Street means revitalizing Main 
Street. The Federal Highway Administration estimates that for every $1 
billion of Federal highway investment, it creates over 30,000 jobs. So 
when we rebuild our roads, we strengthen our economy.

As you know, a bridge collapsed one day in the middle of Minnesota. 
It was something no one could ever believe would happen in the middle 
of our major Interstate Highway System.

As I said that day, a bridge should not fall down in the middle of 
America, especially not an eight-lane interstate highway, especially 
not one of the most heavily traveled bridges in our State, and 
especially not at rush hour in the heart of a major metropolitan area, 
and especially not in my front yard. As you know, Mr. President, as you 
have seen, the area of that bridge was only 8 blocks from my house.

Unfortunately, it has taken a disaster of this magnitude to put the 
issue of infrastructure investment squarely on the national agenda, and 
it is long overdue.

The sudden failure and collapse of the I-35W bridge has raised many 
questions about the condition and safety of our roads and bridges. In 
fact, we just had a bridge that was similarly designed shut down in St. 
Cloud, MN, about an hour and a half away from the bridge that 
collapsed. It was designed by the same designer, with the same problem 
with the bent gussets. The investigation is still going on into the 
exact cause and triggering events that led to the collapse of the I-35W 
bridge.

The fact a bridge closed down so near, and the State of Minnesota 
decided to replace that bridge rather than repair it, shows this is not 
an isolated incident. Critical investment in the maintenance and 
construction of our Nation's transportation is imperative. 
Strengthening and maintaining our national infrastructure must be a 
national priority.

At the moment, our priorities are not in the right place. We spend 
$12 billion a month in Iraq, with no end in sight, but our bridges fall 
down in the middle of America. We have tax cuts for the top 1 percent, 
but it is getting harder and harder for the middle class to get by. We 
need to better prioritize our national spending.


Our robust, well-maintained, up-to-date highway system is vital to 
the continued expansion of our economy. It is, in fact, an essential 
driver of our economic prosperity. As President Kennedy once said:




 Building a road or highway isn't pretty. But it's something 


 that our economy needs to have.


And nowhere is this truer than in rural America.

In Minnesota, the relationship between highways and the economy is 
most obvious in our rural areas. Transportation is absolutely essential 
to their viability and to their vitality. Rural Minnesota is now in the 
midst of an economic revival that promises to grow even stronger. We 
are seeing this all over America with the energy revolution, whether it 
is wind or solar or geothermal or whether it is ethanol or biodiesel.

As our Nation demands greater energy independence and security, the 
rural parts of our country are poised to benefit enormously with the 
further development of home-grown energy. I believe we need to be 
prepared to maximize the opportunities offered by this renewable energy 
revolution. It is only beginning to emerge, but it promises major 
economic and technological changes for our country.

Already the development of wind farms and ethanol plants has 
rejuvenated many rural areas in our State. We are third in the country 
when it comes to wind energy. But at the same time, these wonderful new 
energies are placing new demands on our transportation infrastructure. 
Here is one example: Demand for ethanol has increased dramatically. 
This Congress has pushed it. We are now with corn ethanol, but we know 
we will also expand into cellulosic, switchgrass, prairie grass, and 
other forms of biomass. For the first 6 months of 2007, ethanol 
production in the United States totaled nearly 3 billion gallons--32 
percent higher than the same period last year.

Currently, there are 128 ethanol plants nationwide, with total annual 
production capacity nearing close to 7 billion gallons. An additional 
85 plants are under construction. As we know, this is just the 
beginning. We look at places such as Brazil, which are completely 
energy independent because of what they have done with sugarcane. We 
know corn isn't the only answer. We will expand into other kinds of 
ethanol. But we do know this is going to place demands--demands we want 
to have--on our Nation's transportation infrastructure.

Total ethanol production in the United States is projected to exceed 
13 billion gallons per year by early 2009, if not sooner. What does 
that mean in terms of transportation? Well, this means an average 
square mile of land in southern Minnesota, which now generates the 
equivalent of 80 loaded semitrucks per year, could soon produce double 
that--160 loads of grain per year. As more homegrown energy is 
produced, rural roads and bridges will have greater demands placed on 
them, as will rural rail.



I have had members of my own State of Minnesota--constituents--come 
up and show me these old rail ties that are breaking down. I have seen 
myself the bridges that are in need of shoulders. I have seen the 
highways that are in need of repair. Some of our roads in Minnesota are 
in such disrepair they have actually been letting them go to dirt. We 
are going the opposite because they do not have the money to repair 
them.

The ethanol plant in Benson, MN, now has over 525 fully loaded semis 
hauling either corn, ethanol or other forms of biodiesel from their 
plant every week. This is a 45-million gallon ethanol facility. Their 
production falls around the middle of Minnesota's 16 ethanol plants.

SMI Hydraulics is a company in rural southwestern Minnesota that 
manufactures the bases for the wind towers you see all across southern 
Minnesota. I have visited the company. They basically started in a 
barn, and they are building these huge wind towers. The heavy trucks 
that bring the steel to the company put an understandable heavy burden 
on the roads they travel and are putting their durability to the test.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates truck freight in rural 
America is going to double--double--by the year 2020. The continuing 
trend toward greater reliance on trucking to support these industries 
raises concern about the wear and tear on rural roads and bridges. Many 
of these roads and bridges were built before this trend was evident. 
Whoever thought they would be carrying this huge wind tunnel? No one 
ever thought it would happen, but it does. They were not designed for 
this type of traffic.

Much of the rural road network in the United States was constructed 
during an era of slower travel and lighter vehicles. Current traffic, 
which is heavier and wider, has accelerated the rate of deterioration 
and made these types of roads less serviceable. In many important 
grain-producing States, such as Minnesota, more than 40 percent of the 
major highway system is rated as being in less than fair condition. Our 
transportation systems need to support the development of these 
industries, so we need to look at the full spectrum of transportation 
options.

I truly appreciate Senator Boxer's leadership, looking not just at 
truck travel, not just at roads but also at mass transportation and 
other ways we can transport our goods to market. With more than half 
our State of Minnesota's total population now living in the seven-
county Twin Cities metro area, the need for more transportation options 
has become very clear to all of us.

It is not just about the rural areas in our State. Increasing traffic 
congestion has become a major threat to Minnesota's quality of life and 
our prosperity, costing precious time and money for both commuters and 
businesses. There is enormous support in our State for something called 
Northstar rail, which would bring people basically from the Twin Cities 
to the area of St. Cloud--Big Lake, to be exact. St. Cloud is the area 
I explained where the bridge had been closed because of safety 
concerns. And if you drive that 94 Interstate right now, I can tell 
you, you waste so much time sitting in traffic you practically feel 
sick to your stomach if you are there in rush hour.

We need that mass transit, and legislators and people who were 
originally completely opposed to this project are now standing up in 
front of the line because they know how important it is for their 
constituents. This is a case where I have to tell you the constituents 
were there before the elected officials and led the way to try to get 
this Northstar rail in. And because of the Federal help, it is now 
getting built.


The bottom line for any business is you lose money when your people 
and your products get stuck in traffic, and you also lose the ability 
to attract topnotch, talented workers if they must contend with 
aggravating and time-consuming traffic jams. To combat this threat, we 
must commit to broadening our transportation options, developing the 
right mix of multimodal solutions to serve our emerging needs, while 
maintaining our existing systems and highways. This mix, of course, 
includes not just rail but rapid bus transit, high-occupancy toll 
lanes, and anything we can do to try to move the people to the places 
they need to go.

Our Nation has faced this challenge before, a half century ago, and 
we succeeded in building a new modern transportation system for a new 
modern economy. At the heart of it all was the interstate highway 
system. In his 1963 memoir, ''Mandate for Change 1953-1956,'' President 
Eisenhower famously said this of transportation:




 More than any single action by the government since the end 


 of the war, this one would change the face of America. Its 


 impact on the American economy--the jobs it would produce in 


 manufacturing and construction, the rural areas it would open 


 up--was beyond calculation.


He was right. It is our responsibility to restore Eisenhower's vision 
of a transportation infrastructure that works for all of America. I can 
tell you this firsthand, from my heart, having seen what happens when 
you don't invest as you are supposed to; having seen a major bridge 
fall down one day in the middle of America; having seen the promise in 
the rural parts of our State of the new energy revolution but then 
hearing how they can't get their goods to market because they have a 
bunch of single-road highways, when they have trucks that are trying to 
bring wind towers in, when they are trying to be part of the solution 
to this energy crisis.

It is our responsibility to restore that vision that Eisenhower had--
to build this transportation infrastructure in our country. That is why 
I am so proud to support Senator Boxer and her work on this bill, and I 
hope our colleagues will support this bill and that we get this bill 
passed for the good of America.

I yield the floor.