---
---

# ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE WHITE HOUSE
## `20a23889f15b4b69934c6e94595e6d64`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. I was struck in hearing my Pennsylvania colleague, the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Sestak), I believe the highest ranking 
military officer ever elected to Congress; and so much of the rhetoric 
that revolved around the discussion that this House had on Iraq was, 
you guys don't have any experience, you don't know what you are talking 
about. All you want to do is tie the hands of the generals on the 
ground, and you need to leave this up to the experts.


What we have heard tonight is an expert, one of the military's 
foremost military experts that we are fortunate to have not only in 
this House of Representatives, but in our freshman class with us.

We heard a strategy for success, and we heard someone who has been 
there


and seen it firsthand. What struck me was the fact that the President 
has probably had these discussions, and he has probably had people come 
to him and offer solutions. Maybe not the identical solutions that 
Admiral Sestak has, but differences of opinion. And the problem is, 
this administration has not shown a willingness to listen to 
differences of opinion.

I talked about it earlier. Generals are reassigned if they come in 
with a difference of opinion. Public opinion certainly doesn't matter. 
The facts on the ground certainly don't matter.

I was watching earlier, and I don't know if you had the opportunity 
to walk through some of the facts of what is going on on the ground in 
Iraq right now. We hear a lot of things on TV about, is the surge 
working, is it not working. I will let my colleagues decide.

In November of 2003, the number of insurgents in Iraq was 5,000. That 
is a pretty high number. In March of 2007, the most recent month for 
which data is available, there were 70,000 insurgents in Iraq as 
estimated by the Brookings Institution. So 5,000, 4 years ago; 70,000, 
today.

The number of multifatality bombings in May of 2004 was 9; in May of 
2007, last month, it was 42. To me that does not indicate that we are 
making progress or there is a light at the end of the tunnel. And the 
numbers of people killed, both civilian and American servicemen, we 
talked about that earlier, it is exponentially more now.

Clearly, we need a new direction, and we need people like Admiral 
Sestak, like anyone who is willing to take a hard look at this and 
offer an alternative solution, like the Iraq Study Group. This is a 
group of experts who got together, spent a great deal of time studying 
this issue, making very thoughtful recommendations to the American 
people, to the White House, and they were promptly disregarded.

Not only were they disregarded, but the course of action that they 
recommended, diplomacy with the other actors in the region, a training 
force rather than an offensive force, these are things that we are 
going in the exact opposite direction. We didn't just discard it, we 
have gone opposite to what they recommended.

I would say once again that this discussion is healthy. We have four 
of us here that have opinions, and there are a lot of opinions, and 
that is the way it should be. I would agree with the gentleman from New 
Hampshire (Mr. Hodes) that I hope the same type of discussion is taking 
place on the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue. Unfortunately, that does 
not seem to be the case.