---
---

# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `20ab2e91c58116ea515405652309e696`
`Mr. CRAIG — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President, let me thank the Senator from North Dakota 
for a very succinct presentation about the reality of why we have spent 
the last couple of weeks debating energy in the Senate.

There is another reality check that I think most Americans fail to 
understand when it comes to why they are paying $3-plus at the pump, 
and that reality is that clearly demand in this country has outstripped 
supply by a significant amount. We have increasingly, since the 1950s, 
begun to have to


go elsewhere than just in and around our country to meet the 
hydrocarbon or the crude oil needs of our refiners and, ultimately, the 
gasoline needs of our consumers. As that dependency has grown on 
foreign sources of energy, I would argue that America became 
increasingly less secure.

Now, I am one who in the 1980s, and probably the early 1990s, thought 
it would be just production, production, and more production. I have 
changed. I have spent a lot of time looking at the energy equation of 
our country over the last couple of decades and said, no, you have to 
do a variety of different things.

Production is important. Our President said we are hooked on 
hydrocarbons. We are ''gasaholics,'' if you will. We are and we will be 
for an extended period of time. We have been there a long while. We 
have a multi, multibillion dollar infrastructure that supplies that 
energy out to the suburban access points, and you don't change those 
overnight. You don't change the technology that ultimately gets you 
there, but you do change. And America must change.

Some say you don't need anymore production, you can go to efficiency, 
you can go to new technology, and that alone will change the equation 
fast enough to save America's consumers and the economy.

I disagree with that. I think we are going to go there. In fact, the 
Senate by a voice vote a few moments ago passed a new efficiency 
standard for automobiles that I support. I am a Senator who has never 
supported that in the 27 years I have been in the Senate. So while I 
may be asking the Presiding Officer from Florida to change a little bit 
as it relates to the resources that are offshore Florida because I now 
know the technologies can bring those resources out without damaging 
the environment, here is a Senator who has changed also because I do 
believe that when you get to a fleet that burns less fuel, you are 
going to get to an America that needs less hydrocarbons over time.

That is why the Senator from North Dakota and I introduced 
legislation earlier this year that talked about conservation, and it 
talked about innovation, but it also talked about production and the 
reality of having to get more production out of our own resources 
instead of relying on one of the most unstable, riskiest areas of the 
world to gain that production.

If the world were at total peace today and the world's oil supplies 
were managed by companies and not countries, my guess is crude would 
not be at $60-plus a barrel. It would be at $40-plus a barrel and the 
American consumer would probably be paying a dollar less at the pump. 
But that is not reality. Reality is reflected at the pump and therein 
lies one of our greatest problems.

Earlier in the day, we had a great debate about a tax bill, to tax 
the oil companies by about $30 billion. Somehow that was going to 
change the equation; it was going to make the world a safer and better 
place. It was not going to change the price at the pump, not one dime. 
In fact it had the potential of taking it up.

Here is the reason why. It did not change this equation. What is this 
equation? These are the known reserves of oil on the globe. Here are 
the big boys, as we think of them--the big companies. Here is Exxon and 
here is the British Petroleum and here is Texaco and over here is 
Marathon.

You can hardly see them on the chart. They don't own the world's oil 
supply. They manage and own very little of it.

Who owns it? Hugo Chavez, Venezuela--who would love to jerk this 
country around by its tail--Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq. I have named some 
of the most unstable areas of the world. They own the oil today. We 
need it because we are dependent on it, because we have done very 
little about it. That is why the Senator from North Dakota and I said 
we have to go where the oil is in our country, and the oil is not 
onshore anymore. The oil is not onshore. It is offshore. We know it is, 
and we know there is a substantial supply of it. But we have allowed 
States to put on moratoria and establish a political environment that 
denies the Federal Government access to its own resources, so the 
taxpayers of Idaho are paying a higher price for gasoline, in part, 
because the State of California--the Senator from California is here, 
the State of Florida, and other States have said you can't drill off 
our shore. No. No. Even though in California, with the old leases, they 
are still drilling in the State waters--not drilling but producing--the 
ghost of Santa Barbara is long gone. There are some who still like to 
talk about it, but my guess is these young folks sitting around here 
tonight, who are our pages, don't even remember Santa Barbara or the 
oilspill that resulted from the catastrophe of a wellhead blowing off 
offshore years ago.

The reason you don't is because it doesn't happen anymore. The 
technology of today, the safety of today, the regulations of today have 
changed the equation.

The Senator from North Dakota talked about a compromise the Senator 
from Florida worked with us on this past year. This is lease sale 181, 
where there may be millions of barrels of oil and trillions of cubic 
feet of gas. We don't know. There is a pretty good idea it is there and 
it can be produced and pushed into the current infrastructure and 
America, for a moment in time, will be a little bit more energy secure.

What I am proposing and what many are talking about is what about 
this area? What about the rest of the eastern gulf? Ought we not be 
talking about that? Looking at it? Understanding what is there, if 
technology allows us to produce?

Here is where America's oil is being produced today, in the Gulf of 
Mexico. We are finding more and more out there as the technologies 
improve and as we can get deeper into the waters. That is reality. 
There are those who will give a lot of different arguments about why 
you should not do it. But I will argue you can do it and that the oil 
is there and America ought to know about it and they ought to be asking 
why we are not going there but, instead, why are we increasingly 
dependent upon foreign nations for our source of oil?

It is a reasonable question to ask. Right now, America has grown 
increasingly angry because of the price it is paying at the pump. 
People are not accustomed to using their disposable income for the 
price of energy as we know it today. That is not what we have done in 
an economy such as ours. But that is where we are today.

Here is what happens when we rely on other countries to produce our 
energy for us. We are at war with terrorism today around the globe. 
This is the French oil tanker off the coast of Yemen in October 6 of 
2002, when an al-Qaida suicide boat hit it and set it afire. Here is 
the vulnerability of all of our oil moving on water. I suggest the 
ecological problems resulting from this are greater than from any 
drilling that could occur offshore America today because we expose 
ourselves to a high risk by the shipment of oil on our ocean surfaces 
around the world.

That is why I think it is important that we keep talking and allowing 
America to understand we are not without oil and not without oil 
reserves. The progressive and environmentally sound development of them 
over time will help us in this period of transition that will take 
several decades to move to flex-fueled cars--hydrogen cars, electric 
cars, all of the kinds of things we think America wants and that in 
public policy and incentivizing the marketplace we are moving America 
toward.

It will not happen overnight. In that period of time, while it is 
happening, America remains extremely vulnerable. Our economy is at 
risk. There is no question about it. What I have said is this picture 
demonstrates something that ought to be repeated and repeated again: 
The weapon of mass ''disruption'' in this country is an al-Qaida 
suicide boat hitting the side of an oil tanker, time and time again. 
That is the weapon of mass disruption. The high risk involved, the 
driving up of the oil prices, the movement of gas by $2 or $3 a gallon 
in this economy creates havoc everywhere. Certainly, in my State of 
Idaho it creates tremendous problems.


It is important that I and other Senators recognize that you do not 
conserve your way out of an energy crisis. You do not innovate your way 
out of an energy crisis. You do not produce your way out. You do all 
three.

I am going to continue to work while I am in the Senate to encourage 
this


Senate in public policy to do all three. I think it is in the best 
interests of America, our economy, and our national security that we do 
so. As an American today, I am not only frustrated, I am sometimes 
angered and embarrassed that we, through public policy, have allowed 
our country to become so dependent on other parts of the world.

Great nations should not allow that to happen, but we have. Then we 
make excuses all around us why we can't produce. Petropolitics is a 
fascinating thing. America gets it. The consumer understands it, and 
the consumer will grow increasingly angry when they understand that 
public policy doesn't allow the marketplace to do what it can do best 
in an environmentally sound way, to provide our country with the kind 
of energy it needs.

Again, as we debate this bill on the floor and finalize it, my guess 
is we will do a lot about conservation, we will do a lot about 
innovation, but we will do little to nothing about production. In the 
next 5 to 6 years, production is where it is. As we work on innovation, 
as we move technology from the laboratory to the street to commercial 
use, production still remains critically important.

I call upon my colleagues to stand up and be counted in all three of 
these areas. It is important for our country. It is important for our 
economy. Without question, it is important for our national security. 
The rest of the world should not tell America what its foreign policy 
is or will be based on their willingness or lack thereof to produce the 
oil supply our economy needs.

I yield the floor.