---
---

# MAKING FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `20af3c123e3a651cdd4e400d8167483b`
`Mr. WARNER — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Madam President, the Senate has before it the continuing 
resolution which is an absolutely essential piece of legislation to 
permit our Government to go forward. We are about to have a vote, I 
understand, at 4:45 in relation to that resolution. The resolution has 
been consistent with the rules and precedent of the Senate, put before 
the Senate in such a way as to make extremely restrictive the ability 
to amend that resolution.

Nevertheless, a group of Senators have felt ever so strongly about 
our initiative, which is contained in S. Con. Res. 7, a document that 
was filed at the desk in connection with the debate on Iraq. We feel 
very strongly that the program announced by the President on January 20 
of this year contained therein aspects to which we could not give our 
full concurrence. There is a range of differences of opinion between 
our group, and when I say ''our group,'' they have identified 
themselves from time to time as being cosponsors and other Members of 
the Senate.



Speaking for myself, I felt the plan, as announced on January 20, did 
not speak to the clarity I thought necessary, to say this operation 
should be highly dependent on the Iraqi-trained military and other 
security forces.

Our Nation, together with coalition partners over the period of this 
long conflict--in the not-too-distant future months or so it will begin 
a fifth year--have invested heavily in dollars and sacrifice and 
otherwise to train the Iraqi forces to take on their own security 
obligations. The figure ''over 300,000'' has been frequently referred 
to in briefings and otherwise, that we have thus far, in one way or 
another, trained and equipped.

As a member of the Committee on Armed Services in the course of 
briefings and, indeed, in the Intelligence Committee, both of which I 
serve on, it has been represented through the years, most particularly 
the last 2 to 2/1/2/ years, there has been a steady improvement in the 
quality and the professionalism of these Iraqi forces.

Now, 2/1/2/ years is a long time to train a military person. In the 
United States, we have prided ourselves since the days of World War II 
in taking a 17- or 18-year-old individual and training that individual 
to be a fighting person in 6, 8, 9 months and then some training with a 
unit and therein to a combat situation. Throughout our history, they 
have discharged themselves with the highest degree of professionalism. 
Many of the forces we currently have in Iraq have followed that pattern 
of less than a year's training. How well we know the courage with which 
the men and women of the Armed Forces of the United States, with the 
strong support of their families, have fought, suffered severe wounds, 
and died to enable the Iraqi people to have their freedom, to have a 
nation which is regarded as a sovereign nation today, to have a 
government elected by themselves.

I find it highly perplexing that in that cadre of some 300,000, there 
are not those elements that could have been utilized to a far greater 
degree in this campaign.

We have heard reports--within the last 2 days I received 
confirmation--that those Iraqi contingents, those troop commitments to 
this surge plan which is now in operation still fall short of the level 
of numbers in the commitment to have them in place.

Nevertheless, given the magnitude of that force, in our resolution, 
we specifically say the President should charge--we use the word 
''charge''--hold them accountable for taking the lead, for taking the 
point, for bearing the principal burden of this operation called 
''surge'' in Iraq as enunciated by the President on January 20. 
Therein, rests this Senator's grave concern about the utilization of 
21,500--and even a somewhat larger force than originally announced--in 
this operation.

We gathered together individuals of honest thinking, clear thinking--
not by political motivation--and have tried to continuously push our 
resolution before this Senate such that each and every Senator could 
express his or her agreement, concurrence, or disagreement. We have not 
yet succeeded, but we are going to continue to press on. There is some 
representation--I don't know whether it is final--that the Senate may 
see after we come back from this recess the measure that will be 
presumably passed by the House this week and presented in what I'm told 
could well be an identical form. We feel very strongly our resolution, 
S. Con. Res. 7, without any changes in it, should be brought up as a 
substitute amendment, but at the present time, given the few minutes 
remaining, I see my distinguished colleague who has joined me in this 
effort, the distinguished Senator from Nebraska, Mr. Ben Nelson. We 
have put forward this S. Con. Res. 7, which requires the funding for 
the Government.

At this time, I ask the pending amendment be set aside so I may offer 
amendment numbered 259 which is our S. Con. Res. 7, in identical form, 
which is pending at the desk.