---
---

# None
## `20b485aa2391ed5332b1a8a13ad71426`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Thank you, Mr. Davis, for yielding the time.

You know, I get such a kick out of my colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle, in particular the chairman of the committee. He was my 
ranking Democrat for 6 years. And during those 6 years we investigated 
the illegalities of the Clinton administration that took place, and he 
blocked and defended the administration, as I would expect him to do 
because he is a Democrat, every single time. But the thing that 
interests me is he's talking about corruption in our State Department. 
We sent out over 1,000 subpoenas, and he and his side tried to stop us 
at every turn in the road to get to the bottom of corruption during the 
Clinton years. We had over 100 people in the administration and 
associated with the administration either take the fifth amendment or 
flee the country. We have pictures of them up on the wall, people that 
would not testify, that had memory loss. We said there was an epidemic 
of memory loss at the White House. People were leaving the country. 
People were taking the fifth amendment. They wouldn't give us any 
information. They blocked us time after time after time for 4 years.

And so today, here they are on the floor talking about corruption and 
being blocked by the State Department when they are the authors of this 
process. They're the ones who did it for 4 straight years to protect 
Bill Clinton and his administration when there was no question about 
corruption in that administration.

We sent five criminal referrals to the Justice Department during the 
time I was chairman, and they and their colleagues in the Justice 
Department, the head of the Justice Department blocked us at every step 
of the way, every turn in the road. And here they are today complaining 
about our State Department, during a time of war, trying to deal with 
the problems over there, and they're alleging a cover-up, blockage and 
everything else. You know, there is nothing so righteous as a lady of 
the evening who is reformed. And so I just want to say to my colleagues 
tonight that this is another example of you coming to this floor 
complaining about the administration blocking you when you did it for 4 
straight years. You did it every day, you did it every night, and now 
you're complaining because we're trying to do something about the war 
in Iraq and we're stopping you from getting some information that you 
think is absolutely essential. Where were you when we were 
investigating Clinton? Why didn't you want that stuff to come out?










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
