---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `20bf161afeaa042e689bdfc4d3f1988e`
`Mr. BAYH — 17 June 2010`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the life of Sgt John 
Kenneth Rankel of the U.S. Marine Corps. Sergeant Rankel was assigned 
to the 3rd Battalion, 1st Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, Camp 
Pendleton, CA.

Sergeant Rankel was only 23 years old when he lost his life on June 7 
while serving bravely in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in 
Afghanistan. He was deployed on his first tour of duty in Afghanistan, 
having reenlisted after completing two tours in Iraq.

Sergeant Rankel was from Speedway, IN. He enlisted in the Marine 
Corps immediately after graduating from Speedway High School in 2005. 
Though he was a star athlete on his high school football team, he chose 
to serve rather than play football in college. A fellow marine 
described John as ''the greatest guy I knew, and the best friend 
anybody could ask for.''

Today, I join John's family and friends in mourning his death. He is 
survived by his mother Trisha Stockhoff; his stepfather Don Stockhoff; 
his father Kevin Rankel; his stepmother Kim Rankel; and his brothers 
Nathan Stockhoff and Tyler Rankel. He will forever be remembered as a 
loving son, brother, and friend.

While we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we take pride 
in the example of this American hero. We cherish the legacy of his 
service and his life.

As I search for words to honor this fallen marine, I recall President 
Lincoln's words to the families of the fallen at Gettysburg: ''We 
cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. 
The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated 
it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world will little 
note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what 
they did here.''

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Sgt John Kenneth Rankel in the 
official Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to our country and 
for his profound commitment to freedom, democracy, and peace.

I pray that John's family finds comfort in the words of the prophet 
Isaiah, who said: ''He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord 
God will wipe away tears from off all faces.''
