---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `20cad71aff24aa6f420d4eca1859e4df`
`Ms. MIKULSKI â€” 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, during the last election, the American 
people spoke loud and clear: they want a new direction in Iraq. In my 
own state of Maryland, I have heard from a strong grassroots movement--
they want Congress to act now to end this war. I will vote for this 
emergency supplemental bill because it: fully funds the needs of our 
warfighters on the battlefield; adds $454 million to ensure veterans 
get the health care they need when they come home; requires the 
President to immediately change our mission in Iraq; and sets the goal 
of bringing our troops home by March 31, 2008.

This bill states clearly that Congress and the American people will 
continue to support and protect our troops. Our troops must understand 
that Congress will never abandon them: not while they are fighting on 
the battlefield and not when they come home. The best way to support 
our troops is to bring them home--swiftly and safely.

I am not new to this position. I never wanted to go to war in the 
first place. I was one of the 23 who voted against this war, 4 years 
ago, on October 11, 2002. I opposed giving the President unilateral 
authority to launch a preemptive attack. I said the United States had 
to exhaust our diplomatic options. I encouraged the administration to 
stick with the United Nations, U.N., to let the U.N. meet its 
responsibility to deal with the threat from Saddam. The day of the 
vote, I said, we don't know if we will be greeted with flowers or 
landmines. Well, now we know: when we got to Iraq, there were no 
weapons of mass destruction, but the destruction happened, and it 
happened fast.

The United States went to war with Iraq, but today we are at war 
within Iraq. Saddam is gone, but we are still there, mired in a civil 
war. No one could ask more of our troops. They are brave and courageous 
and have fought valiantly. And it is time to bring them home.

We need a way forward in Iraq. The Iraq Study Group gave us 79 
recommendations as a way to go forward, but the President has 
completely ignored this report. Surely out of 79 recommendations, there 
are 50 we can agree on. The Iraq Study Group report calls for new and 
enhanced diplomatic and political efforts in Iraq and a change in the 
primary mission of U.S. forces in Iraq to enable the United States to 
begin to move our forces out of Iraq responsibly. It provides a 
direction for the U.S. and Iraqi governments to follow that could lead 
to withdrawal of American forces by first quarter of 2008.

This is exactly the approach called for by this supplemental bill, 
which will have most of our troops out of Iraq by March 31, 2008. What 
are we voting for? This bill contains a binding resolution that directs 
the President to promptly transition the mission of U.S. forces in Iraq 
and begin a phased redeployment within 120 days. It sets a goal of 
bringing U.S. combat forces home by March 31, 2008, except for a 
limited number of troops essential for force protection, training and 
equipping Iraqi troops, and targeted counterterror operations. It also 
requires the President to develop a comprehensive diplomatic, political 
and economic strategy for Iraq, including greater U.S. engagement with 
Iraq's neighbors and the international community to work together to 
bring stability to Iraq.

This resolution also says success in Iraq depends on the Iraqi 
Government's ability to meet important benchmarks, including: the 
training and equipping of Iraqi security forces so they can control the 
capital city of Baghdad; giving Iraqi military commanders the authority 
to conduct operations without political interference; disarming 
sectarian militias and ensuring that Iraqi security forces are loyal to 
Iraq's Government; drafting and implementing


legislation to ensure the equal division of Iraqi oil revenues; 
drafting and implementing legislation to reform the de-Ba'athification 
process; implementing a fair process for amending the Iraqi 
Constitution to ensure minority rights are protected; and implementing 
new rules to protect minority rights in the Iraqi Parliament.

I support this Iraq resolution. It says what the Iraq Study Group has 
already told us: the problems in Iraq cannot be solved by the U.S. 
military--they require a political solution by the Iraqis and 
diplomatic engagement with Iraq's neighbors. It says Congress and the 
American people will not only support the troops but continue to 
protect them as well.

I want to end this war, and the resolution in this bill will do just 
that. Yet in ending the war, it is my responsibility as a Senator to 
ensure that our troops are brought home not only swiftly but safely. I 
will not vote to end funding for the pay that supports military spouses 
and children; body armor and armored humvee's our troops need for 
survival; tourniquets and surgical hospitals on the battlefield; jet 
fuel for the airplanes that take injured troops from Baghdad to Germany 
and then home; or the medical care they need when they get here.

In the last few weeks, we have all been shocked and awed by the 
conditions facing our wounded warriors. We know that more than 22,000 
Purple Hearts have been awarded in Iraq. Yet our troops are being twice 
wounded. We know that acute care for our injured troops has been 
astounding, with historic rates of survival from even the most brutal 
battlefield injuries. Yet while we have saved their lives, we are 
failing to give them their life back. Outpatient care, facilities, 
social work, case workers, disability benefits--the whole system is 
dysfunctional.

I thank Senator Inouye and Senator Byrd for their leadership in 
providing funding in this bill for military and veterans' health care. 
This supplemental includes an additional $20 million to improve 
conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and an additional $100 
million for research and treatment of traumatic brain injury, 
posttraumatic stress disorder, and other physical and mental trauma. It 
also adds $454 million for veterans health care, including $73 million 
for new polytrauma facilities and services and $100 million for mental 
health treatment.

We know this is only a downpayment for our troops and veterans. We 
need to overhaul the disability benefits system that is outdated and 
adversarial. We need a better system for transitioning our troops from 
active duty to the Veterans Administration to ensure they get the 
health care, job training, and educational benefits they deserve. We 
need to hear the recommendations of the Dole-Shalala Commission on how 
to fix the problems in our military and veterans' hospitals. And I look 
forward to working with Senator Murray, Senator Levin, and Senator 
Inouye on a comprehensive reform package that will ensure our troops 
have the medical care they will need for the rest of their lives.

This supplemental supports our troops, follows the will of the 
American people, and follows the advice of the Iraq Study Group. It is 
time to change our direction in Iraq and bring our forces home. Let's 
send in the diplomats and bring our troops home safely and soon.
