# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `20d80093564f95531b1742ace769a5c8`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 22 May 2008`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, in several of those 21 States that are 
waiting for funds, officially declared natural disasters wiped-out 
roads and bridges, completely creating obvious safety hazards but also 
cutting off some of our rural communities and disrupting families and 
commerce. Here is a picture that gives us an idea of the scope of the 
problem we face in my home State alone. Sections of roads such as this 
one in Gifford-Pinchot National Forest were completely destroyed in 
recent floods.

If the Federal Government doesn't provide help, these States are 
going to have to either wait to fix these roads or pay for these 
emergency repairs by diverting money from their annual highway funds 
and delaying or cancelling critically needed projects. At a time when 
we know our economy is slipping and gas prices are at an alltime high, 
our States can't afford to do this. A State such as Oklahoma would have 
to spend almost 7 percent of its entire annual highway program to help 
repair roads that were destroyed during recently declared disasters.

Mr. President, 2007 was an unusually hard year for Oklahoma. The 
problems that were caused by storms last year were compounded by more 
storms this past April. As a result, the backlog of highway repairs now 
waiting for the Federal aid emergency relief program totals $33.5 
million. That money is contained in the amendment we will be voting on 
this morning.

So, as I said, my home State of Washington was hit by devastating 
floods last December. Communities from southwest Washington in Whatcom 
County on the Canadian border are struggling to recover, and they 
desperately need and deserve help from our Federal Government.

The bottom line is that while I understand the problems that 
inadequate roads pose to our military and the people in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, we also have urgent needs right here at home for the same 
kinds of repairs, and we have a responsibility to address those 
emergencies. The longer we wait, the longer the list of roads waiting 
for repairs becomes. And those damaged roads hold up our commerce, they 
keep people from getting to work, and they keep goods from getting to 
market. That is going to continue to hurt our already strained economy.

Just yesterday, Governor Gregoire in my home State declared an 
emergency when a highway in Spokane was completely washed out in heavy 
rains and snowmelts. Our Transportation Department says those repairs 
will cost $1 million, and it is going to take several days to reopen a 
single lane of that traffic.

When our citizens pay their taxes, they except their money will go to 
keep the roads and bridges in their own communities safe and reliable. 
I think President Bush is profoundly out of touch if he believes our 
taxpayers would rather spend their money on new roads overseas than on 
damaged roads in their own communities.

So I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle pay close 
attention to what is in this emergency relief amendment and that they 
vote to take care of their own constituents at home while we continue 
to fund these wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Thank you, Mr. President, and I yield the floor.