---
---

# UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE PARALYMPIC PROGRAM ACT OF 2008
## `20e1a628908cbc62339eb9f5bb3b5e3b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 1 August 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of 
H.R. 4255, the ''United States Olympic Committee Paralympic Program Act 
of 2008.'' First, I would like to thank my distinguished colleague, Bob 
Filner of California, for introducing this important legislation. This 
bill will give a grant to the USOC for the planning, developing, 
management and implementation of a Paralympic program for physically 
disabled veterans and members of the United States Armed Forces. I 
strongly encourage my colleagues to support this act.

There are currently over 2.9 million disabled veterans. The wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan have contributed to a 25 percent raise in this 
number since 2001. Many are struggling to rehabilitate, to cope, and to 
regain their purpose. We must staunchly support our soldiers and 
veterans by giving them the opportunity to again represent our country 
with pride.

It may be impossible to ever fully repay the services that the many 
brave men and women of the United States Armed Forces have given for 
our country, but it is critical that we do what we can to support those 
that were injured and disabled in our defense. H.R. 4255 will help to 
provide the many physically disabled veterans and servicemembers with 
an outreach program of encouragement and support that will allow them 
to represent their country as athletes and ambassadors of goodwill.

Upon enactment of the act, the Secretary of Veteran Affairs will be 
authorized to make a grant to the U.S. Olympic Committee, USOC, to 
plan, develop, manage, and implement the Paralympic Program for 
veterans and members of the Armed Forces. The bill directs the USOC to 
use the grant to plan, develop, manage, and implement the Paralympic 
Program for veterans and members of the Armed Forces.

The Paralympic Program that this bill establishes will benefit the 
millions of disabled veterans and members of the Armed Forces. This 
bill will allow many servicemembers to experience the pride of 
representing their Nation, and will provide many more with the outreach 
and support network necessary to rehabilitate and regain their 
strength.

At the time of the 2000 census there were 1.75 million veterans 
living in Texas. Many from Houston and Texas' 18th have served. It is 
in memory of their service that I ask my colleagues to support this 
bill, giving our disabled veterans and servicemembers a chance to 
represent our Nation through their competitive spirits.
