---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `210727da8f1ebff2a640a6cf186b6626`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise to speak against the amendment 
introduced by Senators Levin and Reed, my friends. I actually say that 
with full meaning. I have great respect for the Senators from Michigan 
and Rhode Island. I even like them. But in this case, I am in deep 
disagreement about the amendment they have offered.

This is the most recent iteration of a series of amendments Senators 
Levin and Reed have put in. It changes slightly from earlier versions, 
but the strategy is essentially the same, and in doing so, it ignores, 
I say respectfully, all the changes that have occurred in Iraq on the 
ground in the months that have gone by since the first Levin-Reed 
amendment was introduced. It also ignores the clearly stated counsel of 
the National Intelligence Estimate, of the head of the independent 
Commission to evaluate Iraqi security forces, GEN Jim Jones, and it 
ignores much of the testimony General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker, 
who live on the ground, gave to Congress and the American people last 
week.

I rise to oppose it because I think it does not reflect the successes 
we have had, and if it ever passed, it would take us from this strategy 
which is bringing success to a strategy which would bring us to 
failure. It orders a change of a strategy that is working and puts us 
on a course to a strategy that I believe will fail disastrously. But at 
least everyone would have to acknowledge that we do not know how it 
will work as compared to the Petraeus strategy that is now working.

This amendment, as has been said, would first order the beginning of 
a reduction of U.S. forces in Iraq not later than 90 days from its 
enactment. Well, the interesting thing to say is that General Petraeus 
and President Bush announced last week that a withdrawal of American 
forces will begin this month. It will reach over 5,000 by the end of 
this year, by Christmastime. Quite remarkable. Unexpected. Not 
predicted. But why is it happening? It is happening because the surge 
strategy, combined with the improvement in the performance of the Iraqi 
security forces, has allowed our commander on the ground to recommend 
to the Commander in Chief, who has accepted the recommendation, that we 
can reduce some of our troop presence in Iraq without compromising the 
mission and the security of Iraq.

But General Petraeus said very clearly that he is not for 
congressionally-mandated deadlines, including this one; that as a 
general principle of war, not just to support his own position, he 
feels--and I could not agree with him more--that withdrawals of 
American troops in battle ought to be made on the basis of what is 
happening on the battlefield and at the recommendation of the 
commanders on the battlefield.

Then the Levin-Reed amendment represents essentially a transition of 
U.S. forces to a limited presence, undefined number, to carry out the 
following missions: to protect the U.S. and coalition personnel and 
infrastructure, training, equipping, providing logistical support to 
the Iraqi security forces, and engaging in targeted counterterrorism 
operations against al-Qaida, al-Qaida affiliated groups, and other 
international terrorist organizations.

As I will make clear in a moment, I am particularly troubled that 
that does not include the groups Iran is training, equipping, and then 
sending back into Iraq which have killed hundreds of American soldiers 
and thousands of Iraqi soldiers and civilians.

In ordering a withdrawal within 90 days, in ordering a transition 
from a strategy that is working to a strategy that I believe will fail, 
as I said at the outset, this amendment ignores the best evidence and 
judgment we have based on what is happening on the ground.

The National Intelligence Estimate commented quite clearly about what 
would happen if we limited the mission our solders in Iraq were allowed 
to undertake prematurely. It warned us in no uncertain terms that:




 Changing the mission of coalition forces from a primarily 


 counterinsurgency and stabilization role [which is the 


 current Petraeus strategy] to a primary combat support role 


 for Iraqi forces and counterterrorism operations [which is 


 the strategy that would be imposed by this amendment] would 


 erode the security gains achieved so far.


Not ''might'' but ''would'' erode the security gains achieved thus 
far.

General Jones made very clear in testimony he gave just 2 weeks ago 
that:




 Deadlines can work against us. I think a deadline of this 


 magnitude would be against our national interests.


General Petraeus warned us last week that:




 We need to ensure that we do not surrender a gain for which 


 we fought very, very hard by being locked into a timetable.


Likewise, we heard from General Petraeus, who bluntly told us:




 While one may argue that the best way to speed the process 


 in Iraq is to change the mission from one that emphasizes 


 population security, counterterrorism and transition, to one 


 that is strictly focused on transition and 


 counterterrorism, making that change now would, in our 


 view, be premature.


That is diplomatic language chosen by a military man speaking to 
Congress last week: ''would be premature.''

Look, as our mission in Iraq succeeds and hopefully continues to 
succeed as it is now both in terms of stabilizing the country, reducing 
victims of sectarian violence, chasing al-Qaida, and, most 
significantly, improving the capacity of the Iraqi security forces, we 
will transition our mission because the Iraqis and the environment will 
allow us to do that, and there will be transition to something, I would 
guess, quite like the goal of this amendment. But if you force this by 
congressional action before the commanders on the ground tell us it can 
be safely implemented, it will be more than General Petraeus's 
diplomatic term, ''premature,'' and probably more than the NIE's direct 
term, ''would erode the security gains achieved so far.'' I think it 
would begin to unwind Iraq and lead to a victory for al-Qaida and 
Iranian-backed terrorists. I think it is particularly unjustified for 
Congress to take up this amendment now, the moment we are seeing 
evidence of real progress in Iraq.

I know some of the supporters of the amendment suggest that by 
withdrawing forces, we would force the Iraqi Government to achieve the 
political progress we all want. There is no military solution, only a 
political solution that will ultimately end this. That is true. But let 
me say this: That misses one powerful reality in Iraq today. We are now 
not just fighting to give Iraqis the stability to reach political 
reconciliation and the ability to self-govern, we are fighting al-Qaida 
and Iranian-backed terrorists. That requires a military solution. So to 
say the goal here is just to make sure the Iraqi leadership reaches 
some accommodations with one another--that is not the end of it. You 
can have that happen, and if we pulled out prematurely, al-Qaida and 
Iran could blow the whole thing apart, and it would be a devastating 
loss for Iraq, for the region, and for the security of the people of 
the United States.

But listen to what Ambassador Crocker said about this idea to 
Congress last week:




 An approach that says we are going to start pulling troops 


 out regardless of the objective conditions on the ground and 


 what might happen in consequence of that could actually push 


 the Iraqis in the wrong direction, to make them less likely 


 to compromise, rather than more likely. It would make them 


 far more focused on building the walls, stacking the 


 ammunition, and getting ready for a big nasty fight without 


 us around, than it would push them toward compromise and 


 accommodation with the people who would be on the other side 


 of that fight.


That is Ambassador Crocker, who lives with those people every day, 
the leaders, the political leaders of Iraq, and he is saying: Watch 
out, a premature withdrawal by the U.S. forces would do exactly the 
opposite. It would not encourage the Iraqis to political 
reconciliation; it would basically lead them to hunker down for a civil 
war they fear would be following.

You know what, from this distance, although I have been there six or 
seven times now, it seems like common sense and human nature that if we 
pull out too soon, they are not going to wake up and suddenly make 
difficult political agreements; they are going to get ready for civil 
war. This amendment is based on a premise that disregards exactly what 
our Ambassador, a nonpolitical career person, an expert on the Middle 
East, is telling us would happen.

I would also point out, as I mentioned briefly at the beginning, that


the amendment, I fear, would leave our troops unable, even in their 
reduced mission role, to respond to and go after Iranian operatives and 
Iranian-backed militias, the so-called special groups that are in the 
midst of fighting a vicious proxy war against American troops and 
Iraqis in Iraq.

General Petraeus testified last week that:




 These elements have assassinated and kidnapped Iraqi 


 governmental leaders, killed and wounded our soldiers with 


 advanced explosive devices provided by Iran, and 


 indiscriminately rocketed civilians in the international zone 


 and elsewhere.


So even in the reduced mission, it does provide for allowing our 
troops to go after al-Qaida but not the Iranian-backed operatives. And 
as Senator McCain I think quite compellingly pointed out on the floor 
earlier today, what are our troops supposed to do when they see someone 
walking along with an IED? Go up to them and say: Excuse me, sir, are 
you a member of a sectarian militia or are you al-Qaida? If you are 
sectarian militia, go ahead. If you are al-Qaida, I am sorry, I am 
going to have to capture you.

That is not going to work.

I am sure my colleagues, including the sponsors of this amendment, 
agree that the United States has a vital national interest in 
preventing the dominance of Iraq by the fanatical anti-American regime 
in Tehran, and yet this amendment would give our forces, as I read it, 
no authority to deal with that critical mission after the transition 
period is over.

I just want to say that at the end of last year, after too many 
months, too many months of a strategy that was not working in Iraq, 
President Bush, as the Commander in Chief, finally said: I have to 
change the strategy. He called in a lot of people to ask how should he 
change it in response to the reality on the ground, which is that what 
we were doing was not working, was not succeeding. He met General 
Petraeus, a man who had been in Iraq before, had disagreed with the 
prevailing strategy, and instead of being honored, he was sent out to 
Fort Leavenworth, where he did some great work. It is a great place. 
But he really should have been raised up to continue the fight in Iraq. 
President Bush brought him back to Iraq, accepted his ideas for a new 
strategy of counterinsurgency, of stabilizing Iraq. He gave him the 
30,000-plus troops, and it has worked. Remarkable.

We all know Iraq has not reached the goals we want it to reach, but 
assassinations are down, deaths from sectarian violence are down. 
American and Iraqi forces are in control of most of Baghdad now, not 
the militias.

Most significantly, al-Qaida is on the run. I heard bin Laden and 
Zawahiri put out other tapes today. I wonder whether these tapes are a 
sign not of confidence but of insecurity by al-Qaida's leaders. I am 
beginning to wonder whether they are worried about the fact that they 
are essentially being chased out of an Arab country, Iraq, particularly 
painful for them, chased out of an enormous Sunni Arab province, 
because they are all Sunni Muslims, and that they are on the verge of 
what could be a humiliating defeat, if we continue to move this 
strategy forward against them. As we all know in our own lives, 
sometimes the people who bark the loudest are the ones who are the most 
insecure. I am beginning to wonder whether bin Laden and Zawahiri, who 
masterminded the attack against us on 9/11, are now, on what has become 
the central battlefield of the war with Islamist extremism, al-Qaida, 
whether they are badly losing that war.

What I am saying is, after a long time President Bush looked at the 
facts, changed the strategy, and the new strategy is working. This 
amendment, respectfully to its sponsors, does not regard the facts, 
does not look at the facts, does not accept the changes that have 
occurred in our strategy and the success it is bringing and basically 
continues as if nothing had changed. In doing so, if adopted, it would 
do a disservice to our forces in Iraq who are succeeding, to the cause 
of freedom in Iraq and throughout the Muslim world, and to the cause of 
security of every American threatened by al-Qaida who we know is 
working, plotting, and intends to strike us again, and the fanatics 
who, unfortunately, control the Government of a great country, Iran, 
who lead thousands and tens of thousands on any occasion they can in 
chants to ''death to America.'' That is what is on the line. That is 
what would be jeopardized if this amendment were passed. That is why I 
respectfully ask my colleagues to vote ''no'' on the Levin-Reed 
amendment.

I yield the floor.