---
---

# None
## `21105d2263a775ed8bdc4c6230df14e1`
`Mr. DORGAN — 17 March 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, while we are continuing to wait, as we 
have basically waited all day for amendments to be offered and debated 
and voted on to the FAA reauthorization bill, Senator Rockefeller has 
remained on this floor most of this day. This is a very important piece 
of legislation. It is disappointing that it has slowed down, as have 
most of the issues we have dealt with in recent months, in the past 
year.

Apparently, we will vote either later tonight or likely tomorrow on 
an amendment to the FAA reauthorization bill that has nothing to do 
with the bill. It is so characteristic of the Senate that we bring a 
bill on air safety and modernizing the air traffic control system, on 
essential air service, on passengers bills of rights, and an amendment 
is offered that has nothing to do with those subjects. The rules of the 
Senate allow that.

Let me at least talk for a moment about an amendment that will be 
voted on probably next and probably tomorrow, I guess, by Senator 
Sessions and Senator McCaskill. I know Senator Sessions spoke about 
this recently. He used a very large chart to show the growth in Federal 
budget deficits and also debt. There is no question that the level of 
budget deficits and debt are unsustainable and dangerous to this 
country. There is no question about that.

What we ought to do is understand, No. 1, how did we get here and, 
No. 2, how do we get to a different direction that addresses these 
issues. Let me describe briefly the first part and then the second 
part.

Ten years ago, there was a budget surplus in this country--the first 
time in 30 years, a budget surplus 10 years ago. Then President Bush 
was elected, and President George W. Bush said at the time: There is a 
budget surplus, and it is expected now there will be a surplus for the 
next 10 years. He had Alan Greenspan, then-Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve Board, whispering in his ear and saying: And, by the way, if we 
have surpluses for 10 years, I worry


a lot about paying down the Federal debt too quickly. I worry that may 
be a real problem for our economy. I hope he did not spend a lot of 
sleepless nights worrying about that. He needn't have, I guess.

The President then, with that kind of counsel, said: I am going to 
cut taxes, and I am going to cut taxes for 10 years at least. What I am 
going to do is cut taxes for the wealthiest Americans because I believe 
this economic engine works best by putting something in at the top and 
letting it trickle down to everybody else.

We had a tax cut proposal that was very generous to the people at the 
top. I stood on this floor and said: I don't think that makes any sense 
at all. I think we ought to be a little conservative. First of all, 
these are budget estimates of surplus. They don't exist. They are just 
estimates by economists who cannot remember their home telephone 
numbers, let alone what is going to happen 3 years from now. So let's 
be a little conservative.

The President and those in the Chamber who voted for it in 2001 said: 
Nonsense. Katy, bar the door; we are going to have budget surpluses 
forever. We are giving big tax cuts and, yes, we are giving big tax 
cuts to the wealthiest because they are the ones who make this economic 
engine hum. And they did. I did not vote for it.

Very shortly then we found out we were in a recession.

That was a problem. Six months after that, we found out terrorists 
were bent on injuring this country, and we had the 9/11 attack that 
killed several thousand innocent Americans. Then we were at war with 
terrorists--at war in Afghanistan and then at war in Iraq--none of it 
paid for, not a penny. We sent men and women off to fight and did not 
ask anybody to pay for a penny of it and put all of those costs on the 
Federal budget debt. Just put it right on top of the debt.

In the meantime, as that decade--which I think will be known perhaps 
as ''the lost decade'' of lost opportunity in some ways--moved on, we 
also had people come into this town who were to be regulators and were 
paid to be regulators who boasted: We are going to be willfully blind 
for a few years. You do what you want. We won't watch. We won't tell.

The result was a field day for the biggest financial interests in 
America, creating the most exotic financial instruments, such as credit 
default swaps, CDOs, derivatives--by the way, synthetic derivatives. 
What does that mean? That means you have an instrument that has nothing 
on either side. It is just flatout gambling.

We have some of the biggest financial institutions that were spending 
a decade trading trillions of dollars of derivatives, synthetic 
derivatives, much of it by hedge funds and other financial entities 
that were unregulated.

Again, Mr. Greenspan said, when those of us in the Senate pushed for 
regulations: No, they don't need to be regulated. It will all work out 
fine. Self-regulation--they are not going to do anything stupid. Self-
regulation will work just fine.

In the meantime, we had the home loan scandal, massive amounts of 
money in subprime loans put out there to people who could not afford 
them by companies that were making billions of dollars. Mr. Mozilo ran 
Countrywide, the single largest home lender in America. He left with a 
couple hundred million dollars. He is now under investigation. They 
were putting teaser loans out.

They said: By the way, you have bad credit, no credit, don't pay your 
bills, no pay, slow pay. They said: Come to us. We want to give you a 
loan.

All of us understand that does not work. Yet that is what was going 
on. They were awash in money by moving all these assets and securities 
around. Unbelievable. That is the subprime loan scandal.

All of this transpired, and then it collapsed. When you create a 
house of cards, the slightest little wind blows the house of cards 
down. That is exactly what happened. We discovered that some of the 
biggest financial institutions in this country had much more leverage 
than they were able to sustain, and the entire thing came crashing 
down.

The Federal Reserve Board now has spent untold amounts of money--
untold because they would not tell us. We asked them. They said: You 
don't deserve to know nor do the American people deserve to know how 
many trillions of dollars have gone out the back door to sustain 
investment banks and others who made bad judgments. Those too-big-to-
fail institutions, no-fault capitalism, they were too big to fail, and 
the American taxpayers got stuck. The American taxpayers and American 
citizens lost about $15 trillion in value, and at the same time had to 
bail out big financial institutions that made massive amounts of money.

By the way, right now they are paying, once again, bonuses of $120 
billion, $140 billion in some of those same industries, and they are 
showing record profits while some 15 million, 17 million people went 
out to look for work and could not find it. Small- and medium-size 
businesses are still having difficulties. Those at the top, too big to 
fail, who received massive amounts of government help, are now making 
record profits and paying record bonuses. All of that exists.

When we hit this ditch, this financial wreck, we lost a substantial 
amount of income coming into the Federal Government--about $400 
billion. The economic stabilizers we have, such as unemployment 
insurance, food stamps, and others, the cost of them went way up. Had 
Barack Obama, winning the Presidency, done nothing--walking across the 
threshold into the White House for the first day, had he done nothing 
for the next 10 to 12 months he would have had a $1.3 trillion Federal 
budget deficit not of his making. That was his inheritance when he won 
the Presidency.

We have these giant budget deficits. I find it interesting, people 
come out and talk about these big budget deficits who have spent the 
last 10 years saying: You know what. Let's go ahead and send men and 
women to war, and we will just charge it. We will not ask anybody to 
pay for it, ratcheting up this deficit, helping create these problems.

Now, all of a sudden they are having an apoplectic seizure over 
budget deficits and the increased level of debt. We should have a 
seizure over it because it is unsustainable, and we should fix it.

We need to understand what happened to create it and making sure we 
fix it so that it does not happen again. That means financial reform. 
That means paying for wars we are fighting, and so on, which is not 
happening yet. Even more than that, the question is, What is the 
medicine or the solution? So our colleagues bring an amendment that we 
will vote on tomorrow that says what we should do is to freeze domestic 
discretionary spending for 3 years--domestic discretionary spending. 
Well, people who don't work around here don't know what that means so 
much. What it means is they are proposing to freeze that portion of 
Federal spending that has not blown through the lid here. What is out 
of control are the entitlements--massive increases in Medicare and 
Medicaid. What is out of control is the substantial increase in defense 
spending that is not paid for. What is out of control is the 
dramatically less revenue that comes from giving tax cuts to people who 
didn't need it.


If you have a million dollar income a year--which would be a good 
thing to have--and somebody says: You know what, you just won the 
lottery. Our government says: We are going to give you a $79,000 tax 
cut. So a proposal that says: You know what we are going to do, we are 
going to take that smaller portion of the budget and we are going to 
freeze that for 3 years--you know, the kinds of things that educate 
kids, the sort of things that invest in people's lives, human capital, 
human potential, the kinds of things that make life better. We are 
going to freeze all that, but we are not going to touch anything on the 
revenue side. No, we want to protect those tax cuts for the biggest 
interests. We are not going to do anything in the entitlement areas, 
despite the fact that we have dramatic growth in Medicare. There is 
nothing in this that says: Let's take a look at all spending. They say: 
Let's take a look at a bit of spending. And there is nothing in here 
that says: Let's take a look at revenues.

You have to look at all of these things. If you are serious, if you 
are a deficit hawk and you are about getting your hands around this 
deficit problem and getting rid of this problem, then


you have to be serious out here and say we are going to do it all; that 
we are going to take a look at every single area of spending and we are 
going to take a look at revenues as well.

Let me mention one example. In 2008, the highest income earner, pure 
income, in America is a man who made $3.6 billion--$3.6 billion--
running a hedge fund. So he goes home at night and his spouse says: How 
are you doing, honey? Pretty good. I made $10 million today. It is a 
lot of money for a day, isn't it? Well, $3.6 billion is $300 million a 
month, and so $10 million a day. But that is not his only success. It 
wasn't just that he made $3.6 billion. It was that he gets to pay a 
lower income tax than almost anybody in the State of Minnesota--the 
State of the Presiding Officer--because most of the constituents of the 
Presiding Officer pay income tax rates that are much higher than 15 
percent. But that $3.6 billion earner gets to pay an income tax rate of 
15 percent because it is defined as carried interest. That is a 
loophole that you can drive a Humvee through, and it is one that we 
ought to close right now.

You say you want to do something about deficits. How about making 
somebody like that pay a fair share of taxes? If somebody is going to 
work all day as a drill press operator and come home and shower after 
work and try to figure out how he is going to pay the bills and so on, 
if that person is paying a 20-percent, 28-percent, 30-percent, 35-
percent income tax rate, how about the person who is making $3.6 
billion?

Somebody will listen to this and say: That is that old populism 
again. That is not populism, to talk about things that are necessary 
and right. It is not populism. It is deciding that everybody ought to 
be treated fairly, and it is not fair if those who are at the low end 
of the income ladder are paying the highest tax rates and those who are 
at the high end are paying the lowest tax rates.

Warren Buffett, the second or third richest man in the world--a guy I 
like and whom I have known a long time. He is a wonderful man. He did 
an experiment at his office in Omaha, NE. I think he said they had 
something like 20 or 40 or 50 people working at Berkshire Hathaway at 
the office. So he asked them, I believe voluntarily, to disclose what 
their income was--although his company pays them--and what their tax 
rate was. What he discovered was this: Of all the people in his office, 
the person who paid the lowest combined tax rate of income taxes and 
payroll taxes was the third or second wealthiest man in the world: 
Warren Buffet. He paid a lower tax rate than his receptionist. Warren 
Buffett said to me: That is so unbelievably wrong. It has to change. 
You all have to change that. I am paying what I should pay, but he 
said: It is not right that you have a Tax Code that has me paying a 
lower tax rate than the receptionist in my office.

My point simply is this: We could change that, and should, and 
increase some revenue as a result by making the tax system fairer and 
having those who should, pay their fair share. That is one way to 
reduce the deficit, isn't it? Except it will never be done with this 
resolution because it looks at that portion of the budget that would be 
used to fund a school or to build a water project or to build a flood 
protection project--just that domestic discretionary in which you 
invest in America. Well, that doesn't make any sense at all.

Senator Pryor came to the floor and said he is going to offer an 
alternative, which I am going to support, which includes all of these 
things. It says: Yes, tackle this budget deficit, do it now, don't 
delay, but tackle it with seriousness, seriousness of purpose, not just 
taking one piece that hasn't exploded and ignoring the other pieces. 
Take the piece of domestic discretionary spending that has not exploded 
and say: Let's take all the savings out there. I don't understand that.

I understand the motive. The motive is to say: Well, we have a bunch 
of people who don't want to touch taxes in any way, even asking the 
$3.6 billion person who pays a 15-percent rate to start paying his fair 
share. I understand they want to protect that. I don't. I want that 
person to pay a fair rate of taxes to our government. They would call 
that a tax increase. I don't. I think it is just evening up the score, 
saying: You want all the benefits America has to offer but don't want 
to pay the full obligation of being a citizen? The same is true with 
some corporate interests that decide they want everything America has 
to offer them but they want to run their employees through the Grand 
Caymans so they can avoid paying payroll taxes.

By the way, the same people who are paying a 15-percent income tax 
rate on carried interest running hedge funds are setting up deferred 
compensation accounts in the Bahamas to avoid paying even that 15 
percent. So is that something we can shut down? Of course. Would that 
help reduce the budget deficit? Yes. Is that tackling domestic 
discretionary? No. It is more effective than doing that, because we 
know where this money is and we know how we could reduce the budget 
this way.

I am in favor of tackling every part of the Federal budget and seeing 
what works and what doesn't. There are a whole number of things this 
government does that it doesn't need to do anymore.

I know Senator Kaufman wants to speak, but I want to mention one 
thing first. I have been here at this desk a long time now, and let me 
describe how unbelievable it is that even waste has its constituency in 
this Chamber--even waste. We are doing this: We broadcast television 
signals into the country of Cuba every single day that the Cuban people 
can't see. We do it every single day. We have spent $/1/4/ billion 
doing it. We broadcast from 3 in the morning until about 7 in the 
morning and the Cubans routinely block them. The purpose of it was to 
broadcast--under what is called Television Marti--and to inform the 
Cubans about how wonderful freedom is. They are pretty well aware of 
that by listening to Miami radio stations. And we know they understand 
freedom because they get on rafts trying to find their way to this 
country. But we have Television Marti, which is a big group of people 
that is pretty well funded, about $20 million a year, or $25 million a 
year now, and so we send television signals to the Cuban people that 
they can't see. We first did it with a big blimp called Fat Albert, way 
up in the air shooting signals down that the Cubans could block. Then 
Fat Albert got off its tethers and landed in the Everglades, and what a 
mess that was. Then they bought an airplane and they send the signal by 
flying these planes, which the Cubans routinely block.

I have offered amendment after amendment after amendment to try to 
stop spending to send television signals to no one, but you can't get 
it done. Isn't that unbelievable? I will continue to do that because 
that is an area of spending, it seems to me, where it takes a 
nanosecond of thought to say: That is just stupid. That is just dumb. 
So stop it. Except government doesn't quite work that way, or that 
well.

But if the Pryor amendment is offered tomorrow, I fully intend to 
support that aggressively because we are on an unsustainable path. Most 
of us know how we got here, but not everybody yet knows how we are 
going to get out of it, and I think that is a decent step in the right 
direction. I would say that the Sessions-McCaskill amendment is 
seriously deficient and is not, in my judgment, the serious way to 
address what is a very serious problem.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.