# EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR DESIGNATION OF A NATIONAL VETERANS HISTORY  PROJECT WEEK
## `2111c835e4f02d853f135d6444ada525`
`Mr. KIND â€” 5 November 2007`

---


Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 
770 which encourages the designation of a National Veterans History 
Project Week. This resolution encourages increased public participation 
in the Veterans History Project.

As you may know, the Veterans History Project collects and saves the 
stories of America's veterans who have bravely served this country from 
World War I to today's conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. This project 
provides Americans an important way to honor our soldiers: by 
preserving the story of their service, in their own words, for the use 
and benefit of future generations.

In 2000, I authored and Congress unanimously passed legislation 
creating the Veterans History Project. Since its beginning, the project 
has collected more than 50,000 stories and documents. In addition, the 
Veterans History Project was honored by Harvard University as one of 
the finalists for the Innovations in American Government Award 
competition in 2005.

We must get the word out to all veterans about this important 
initiative. We have millions of wartime veterans and civilians in this 
country and their stories are a reminder to us all of the costs of the 
freedoms we so deeply cherish. Let this resolution also serve as a 
reminder to the distinguished members of this body that the decisions 
we make here in Washington have a far-reaching impact in the homes and 
communities all over this great country. We must support these brave 
men and women whom we send out to the front lines to fight for the 
freedoms we are privileged to enjoy.

Since the beginning of our Nation, the soldiers, sailors, airmen, and 
marines of the armed forces have been called on to risk their lives and 
fight for the ideals that make America great. Regardless of what one 
thinks about the wars that they fought in, or the wisdom of our 
involvement, all Americans must agree that the men and women of our 
armed forces have responded to the call of their country and performed 
with honor and dignity. War veterans and the civilians who have 
supported them all across this Nation have stepped forward once again, 
this time answering the call of civic duty by recording their stories 
and contributing personal documents for the Veterans History Project. 
Their participation ensures that their accounts are recorded and 
preserved, becoming a part of this Nation's memory and history.

The volume of materials already collected by the Veterans History 
Project is a testament to its success. I believe, however, we can do 
even better. By passing this resolution today, we can encourage more 
participation in this important program and ensure that this vital 
collection of American history continues to grow even further.

Capturing the stories of our war veterans is more important now than 
ever before. Every day, America loses over 1,000 of our aging World War 
II veterans and with them, their firsthand accounts of that war. As our 
country faces new challenges and threats in foreign policy, we must not 
forget the events and lessons of World War II. That is why it is 
imperative that we capture the stories and personal histories of those 
veterans today before it is too late. The Veterans History Project is 
instrumental in accomplishing this important goal.

I call upon all members of this body to publicize and promote the 
Veterans History Project in their own districts and communities. I 
cannot think of a better way to honor our veterans than by trying to 
preserve as many of their memories and stories as possible.

I commend the gentleman from Nevada for introducing this resolution 
and I strongly urge my colleagues for their support.