---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2642,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `211b3aeb2a695c9ee9129e7060404e91`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 15 May 2008`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, H. Res. 1197 provides for the 
consideration of the Senate amendment to H.R. 2642, the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act of 2008.

The rule makes in order a motion by the chairman of the Committee on 
Appropriations to concur in the Senate amendment with three House 
amendments. The rule provides 2 hours of debate on the motion 
controlled by the Committee on Appropriations. The rule provides for a 
division of the question on the adoption of the three House amendments 
listed in the Rules Committee report. The rule also provides that the 
chairman of the Committee on Appropriations may insert in the 
Congressional Record dated May 15, 2008, such material as he may deem 
explanatory of the motion.

Madam Speaker, with a deep appreciation for the importance of the 
legislation before us today, the Rules Committee has reported out a 
rule that allows for a full, thorough debate on three amendments 
critical to the future of our Nation. This process will give each 
Member ample opportunity to vote their conscience on whether to fund 
the war or not, place conditions on our Iraq policy or not, or choose 
to support veterans over millionaires.

The legislation we are about to take up was forged with the idea of 
consensus. It meets the spending requirements made by President Bush, 
including the $5.8 billion that he asked for to strengthen the levees 
in New Orleans. In addition, it does not include a single earmark, 
except those explicitly requested by Mr. Bush's administration.

On the other hand, the legislation is not a blank check because it is 
important to remember why we are really here today. This is the sixth 
year of the war in Iraq. More than 4,000 United States service men and 
women, 28 from my district alone, are dead. Tens of thousands have been 
wounded and physically disabled, and far too many suffer from post-
traumatic stress disorder and a host of other mental health issues. 
What's more, the civilian death total is devastating. Millions, not 
thousands, of Iraqi men, women and children are dead. Millions more 
have been forced into camps or other countries that will accept them.

At a time of economic emergency, when the American family is under 
siege, the war continues to be waged at


a staggering cost to the American taxpayer and at the expense of our 
economic security.

A few weeks ago, the New York Times reported on the Bush 
administration's practice of paying off supposedly independent military 
analysts to shade the truth about what was really happening in Iraq. 
This administration was so concerned that Americans would find out the 
truth that they paid former U.S. military personnel to read from 
prescreened, whitewashed Pentagon talking points to hide from the 
American people what was happening in their name.

This may be the greatest foreign policy disaster in American history, 
and the American people overwhelmingly are calling for it to end. They 
have seen that this insurgency is far from nearing the end. They were 
told, ''Trust us. The Iraqi war revenues will pay for reconstruction.'' 
Yet the American people are feeling the pinch as their hard-earned tax 
dollars finance the rebuilding of a foreign nation while their 
country's own economy and infrastructure are falling apart. They were 
told, ''Trust us. We will make sure your sons and daughters have the 
equipment they need.'' Yet we have all seen the reports of desperate 
searches through junk heaps to refit ill-equipped armored vehicles. And 
we have all heard the tales of worried mothers scraping together the 
family savings to purchase adequate body armor for their children.

They were told, ''Trust us. We will ensure that our fighting men and 
women will be taken care of when they return home.'' Yet we all 
remember the disgraceful images of Walter Reed Hospital, the recent 
reports of appalling living conditions for troops stationed in the 
barracks at Fort Worth, Texas.

Under such circumstances, it would be an abdication of our duty to 
perpetuate a clearly unacceptable status quo. For that reason, the 
legislation we take up today represents a break from the past and a 
renewed chance of changing a stale, stagnant situation.

It does, indeed, provide immediate funding for our soldiers in Iraq 
and Afghanistan who are currently in the field. However, while the 
needs of our troops will always be at the forefront of our national 
priorities, funding for this war must not come in the form of a blank 
check. This funding only comes with conditions that will begin the 
process for ending this war.

The supplemental requires that troops begin redeployment from Iraq 
within 30 days, with a goal of completing a full withdrawal in 18 
months. We do this not because we concede 1 inch to those who would do 
our Nation harm or because we lack the will to fight for our national 
security, we do this because basic respect for our military demands it. 
No longer will they be asked to fight an open-ended conflict whose 
finish line keeps moving.

And in keeping with this respect for our troops, the legislation 
mandates that soldiers must be properly rested and equipped to meet the 
administration's own standards for combat readiness before 
redeployment.

Furthermore, we will honor the parents who continue to serve our 
Nation by finally providing full funding for the military day care 
centers.

This legislation also keeps our promises to our veterans. Part of the 
cost of waging war is ensuring that our men and women in uniform have 
the resources that they need to resume their lives upon their return 
home. The bill before us dramatically expands the education benefits 
that veterans of the United States military will receive under the new 
GI Bill. Not only do our troops deserve this benefit and much more, but 
every dollar we spend on education today will come back to bolster our 
economy tomorrow. It is also an investment.

And I would add that this provision is fully paid for by asking the 
wealthiest, who saw their tax rates drop 19.6 percent in 2004, they 
have saved around $126,000 since that time, we are asking them please 
to give us $500 to help fund the GI Bill of Rights.

At no time ever before in the history of this country have we been 
burdened with massive tax cuts for the wealthy during a time of war. 
Obviously this has been a new idea of this administration. These 
actions of fiscal incompetence by the Bush administration left this 
country's economy struggling, and American families are paying the 
price. And no families are paying it more than the families of the men 
and women who are fighting this war. No sacrifice has been asked from 
any of the rest of us.

Rising levels of sustained joblessness require us to extend 
unemployment benefits to those workers who understandably cannot find a 
job. This bill does just that.

Additionally, up until this point, the American people have been 
unfairly asked to shoulder the full weight of the reconstruction effort 
in Iraq. The underlying legislation requires that U.S. reconstruction 
aid be matched dollar for dollar by the Iraqi Government, removing some 
of the pressure from families already struggling to make ends meet.

Furthermore, it prohibits the establishment of permanent bases in 
Iraq, blocking this administration from saddling the American people 
with a costly occupation long after the Army is gone.

Our fellow citizens have been sent to fight a conflict and a war far 
away from home, and we owe them not only our support and our deep 
thanks, and not only with words, but with the deeds that we commit to 
in this Congress. This bill is about who we are as a society and the 
values that we hold.

I am proud to support this rule and the underlying legislation, and I 
ask my colleagues to do the same.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

