# NATIONAL BRAIN INJURY AWARENESS MONTH
## `212ffd05a0a08cb00c2776d100c43f4b`
`Mr. AKIN — 23 March 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Last week, the devastation of traumatic brain injury was once again 
brought to our attention with the death of actress Natasha Richardson. 
This tragedy was but one type of traumatic brain injury that brings 
about death or physical debilitation to over 1.4 million people each 
year.

While the leading cause of traumatic brain injury is the result of 
falls, they are followed by automobile accidents, being struck by or 
against a hard surface, and assault. Men are at the greatest risk of 
brain injury, and African Americans have the highest death rate from 
this injury. All of these cold, hard facts do not tell the story of 
shattered lives of the individual, if they survive, and untold 
heartache and lifelong impact on loved ones and friends of the injured. 
In America, there are 125,000 citizens living with life-long 
disabilities from traumatic brain injuries.

These head injuries come about in many ways, not the least of which 
are the injuries sustained by our soldiers fighting in Afghanistan and 
Iraq. The cost in lives and the ongoing suffering is tragic for these 
brave men and women. Their injuries will continue to require costly 
medical assistance from State, Federal, and local agencies.

Generally, a concussion is a type of traumatic brain injury that is 
caused by an injury to the head that many people underestimate. It is 
critical to recovery that any type of blow to the head, whether it is a 
child's fall from a swing to a teen sport or automobile accident, be 
taken seriously. Often, symptoms don't show up immediately, so keeping 
a close watch on the injured person is imperative so that medical 
attention can be sought, if needed.

We are grateful for organizations such as the Brain Injury 
Association of America who are invaluable in generating understanding 
and awareness of brain injury. We join with all who wish to broadcast a 
message of hope and action of this often underestimated condition 
during March, which has been designated as the National Brain Injury 
Awareness Month.

I yield back the balance of my time.