# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `21356e803ea852d156c7d58cad771621`
`Mr. OBAMA — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. OBAMA. Mr. President, at the end of the Second World War, this 
country thanked a generation of returning heroes for their service by 
giving them the chance to attend college on the GI bill. Stanley 
Dunham, my grandfather, was one of the young men who got that chance. 
More than half a century later, we face the largest homecoming since 
then, at a time when the costs of college have never been higher.

Senator Webb, a former marine himself, along with the leaders of both 
parties, have introduced a 21st century GI bill that would give this 
generation of returning heroes the same chance at an affordable college 
education that we gave the ''greatest generation.''

We have asked so much of our brave young men and women. We have sent 
them on tour after tour of duty to Iraq and Afghanistan. They have 
risked their lives and left their families and


served this country brilliantly. It is our moral duty as Americans to 
serve them as well as they have served us. This GI bill is an important 
way to do that.

I know there are some who have argued that this will have an impact 
on retention rates. I firmly believe--and I think it has been argued 
eloquently on this side--that in the long term, this will strengthen 
our military and improve the number of people who are interested in 
volunteering to serve.

I respect Senator John McCain's service to our country. He is one of 
those heroes of which I speak. But I cannot understand why he would 
line up behind the President in his opposition to this GI bill. I can't 
believe why he believes it is too generous to our veterans. I could not 
disagree with him and the President more on this issue.

There are many issues that lend themselves to partisan posturing, but 
giving our veterans the chance to go to college should not be one of 
them. I am proud that so many Democrats and Republicans have come 
together to support this bill. I would also note that the first GI bill 
was not just good for the veterans and their families, but it was good 
for the entire country. It helped to build our middle class. Whenever 
we invest in the best and the brightest, all of us end up benefiting, 
all of us end up prospering.

I urge my Senate colleagues to give those who have defended America 
the chance to achieve their dream. I commend Senator Webb and the many 
veteran service organizations that have worked so tirelessly on this 
issue.

I yield the floor.