---
---

# None
## `21364307df7d1b9ba688b2d50eec28e4`
`Ms. GIFFORDS — 22 June 2010`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor United States Air 
Force Technical Sergeant Michael Paul Flores, who was killed in action 
on June 9, 2010.

Michael was a decorated 12-year Air Force veteran. During his eight 
deployments to Iraq


and Afghanistan, he earned the Distinguished Flying Cross and twelve 
Air Medals. He grew up in San Antonio, Texas, where he graduated from 
John Marshall High School before enlisting in 1997.

A Pararescue Non-Commissioned Officer assigned to the 48th Rescue 
Squadron at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, Michael belonged to a highly 
regarded and specialized unit known throughout the military for their 
skills and willingness to risk their lives to save others.

The motto of Pararescue units, ''That Others May Live'', speaks to 
the dedication that Michael and his brothers in arms share. He perished 
doing what he loved alongside other Air Force Rescue personnel, on a 
mission to save a British Soldier's life.

We remember Tech Sergeant Flores and offer our deepest condolences 
and sincerest prayers to his family. My words cannot effectively convey 
the feeling of great loss, nor can they offer adequate consolation. 
However, it is my hope that in future days, his family may take some 
comfort in knowing that Michael made a difference in the lives of many 
others and serves as an example of a competent and caring leader and 
friend that will live on in the hearts and minds of all those he 
touched.

Technical Sergeant Flores is survived by his wife Marisa, daughter 
Eliana and son Michael.

This body and this country owe Michael and his family our deepest 
gratitude, and we will today and forevermore honor and remember him and 
his service to our country.
