---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `213e53884447c86ad18a30a835c82861`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 16 September 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican 
Leadership standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following 
information regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 3183--Energy 
and Water Appropriations Act, 2010.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3183

Account: Army Corps of Engineers, Construction

Amount: $500,000

Project: Florida Keys Wastewater Improvement Project

Requested by: City of Key West, City of Marathon, Key Largo 
Wastewater Treatment District

Federal funding of this project is needed to continue moving forward 
with the initiative outlined in The Florida Keys Water Quality 
Improvements Act, which authorized $100 million


for water quality improvements in the Keys. For several years there has 
been growing concern that the near-shore waters of the Florida Keys 
have been deteriorating due to inadequate wastewater and storm water 
facilities. These are the waters of the Florida Keys National Marine 
Sanctuary and home to the only living coral reef in the continental 
United States.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3183

Account: Army Corps of Engineers, Operation and Maintenance

Amount: $4,500,000

Project: Intracoastal Waterway, Jacksonville to Miami, FL

Requested by: Florida Inland Navigation District

The Intracoastal Waterway (IWW) is a critical part of Florida's 
eastern-shore economy and therefore its timely dredging is of serious 
importance. The Waterway annually: transports over 1 million tons of 
commercial cargo and over 500,000 recreational vessels; increases 
property values by $38.4 billion; and provides $7.9 billion in economic 
output which includes $2.6 billion in personal wages and 124,857 jobs. 
Studies by FIND, the local sponsor of the IWW, have shown that these 
benefits would be reduced by 50 percent if the Waterway were not 
properly maintained.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3183

Account: Department of Energy, EERE Account

Amount: $1,000,000

Project: Going Green Initiative

Requested by: Miami Children's Museum

This project will allow the Museum to preserve and protect the 
world's natural resources using environmentally advanced, sustainable, 
and renewable and/or recyclable materials and systems in the building. 
In addition, it will allow the Museum to educate its audience about its 
environmentally friendly building and high-performance features through 
a variety of hands-on programs and project based activities for 
classroom and home continued learning.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3183

Account: Army Corps of Engineers, Construction

Amount: $600,000

Project: Miami Harbor Channel Dredging

Requested by: Miami-Dade County, Florida

This funding request is for the General Reevaluation Report 
Implementation, Preconstruction, Engineering, and Design for the 
dredging of Miami Harbor. The funding was authorized via 2007 (H.R. 
1495) for preconstruction, engineering, and design of the recommended 
project. This will address the federal share at 100% of the anticipated 
costs for plans and specifications preparation.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3183

Account: Army Corps of Engineers, Operation and Maintenance

Amount: $777,000

Project: Miami River Dredging

Requested by: Miami-Dade County, Florida

This request is for the final phase of the Miami River Dredging 
Project to restore authorized depth and width to the navigation 
channel. This project, funded by the Army Corps of Engineers with a 
coalition of local sponsors led by Miami-Dade County, removes 
contaminated sediments from the Miami River--Florida's 4th largest port 
with an economic value of $4 billion. Since it was improved for 
navigation in the 1930s, the river has never received comprehensive 
maintenance dredging. Sediments have accumulated in the margins of the 
federal channel making it narrower and shallower, thereby limiting 
activities of freighters that utilize ship terminals along the river. 
Dredging and disposal of the contaminated sediments is expected to 
improve navigation and enhance the environmental quality of the River 
and downstream portions of Biscayne Bay.

Pursuant to the Republican Leadership standards on earmarks, I am 
submitting the following information for publication in the 
Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 
3283--Department of Education Appropriations, 2010.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3283

Account: HHS-HRSA

Amount: $500,000

Project: Construction of a new behavioral health facility for the 
homeless

Requested by: Camillus House

Camillus House, Inc. is requesting support of costs to relocate and 
expand its main center of operations located in downtown Miami. This 
funding would supplement funds already provided through HRSA for design 
and architecture services for this project. The requested will be used 
entirely for construction costs. Camillus House, Inc. services include 
basic emergency services such as food and shelter, substance abuse and 
mental health treatment, primary health care, housing, and career 
development at 15 sites around Miami-Dade County.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3283

Account: HHS-HRSA

Amount: $500,000

Project: Information Technology Infrastructure

Requested by: Jackson Health System

Jackson is a fully integrated health care system with 3 major 
hospitals, 12 primary care centers, 16 school-based clinics, a mental 
health facility, 2 mobile health vans and a major health plan. Jackson 
is the primary safety net provider in Miami-Dade County and one of the 
busiest emergency rooms in the Nation. Jackson's Advanced Clinical 
Knowledge System (JACKS) has been implemented at Jackson Memorial 
Hospital and helps with patient scheduling improving efficiencies and 
reducing redundancies in the delivery of care. The Public Health Trust, 
the board that governs Jackson Health System, has approved expansion of 
this system to our other 2 hospitals in opposite ends of the county, 
Jackson South Community Hospital and Jackson North Medical Center. The 
expansion will ensure continuity throughout all of their hospitals.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3283

Account: Department of Education, FIE

Amount: $300,000

Project: United Way Center for Excellence in Education

Requested by: United Way of Miami-Dade

The Center for Excellence in Early Education improves the quality of 
early care and education by modeling and providing best practices in 
early care and education and collaborates with local, state and federal 
agencies to ensure sustainability of its work. Through its unique 
composition, the Center offers informative, applicable training on 
early education and pilots effective programs that help teachers 
educate, parents understand and providers/owners care for our youngest 
citizens, locally, regionally and nationwide.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3283

Account: HHS-HRSA

Amount: $200,000

Project: Health Center Equipment Upgrades

Requested by: Miami Beach Community Health Center

To expand children's comprehensive health services including health 
care. To provide preventive and comprehensive primary care to all adult 
patients including health care. To provide comprehensive primary care 
and referrals for specialty care for patients with HIV/AIDS including 
health care. To continue to provide comprehensive total quality 
management program for all clinical programs. To update and implement 
recruitment and retention protocol for staff and for the replacement of 
a roof.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3283

Account: Department of Education, FIPSE

Amount: $300,000

Project: Science and Computer Advancement Center for Elementary 
Education

Requested by: St. Thomas University

To extend its outreach to the community by offering a professional 
development program to advance the teaching of science and technology 
in elementary schools in Miami-Dade County. St. Thomas University will 
partner with Title I elementary school teachers and other schools in 
northwest Miami-Dade in the vicinity of the STU campus to raise level 
of quality, student success and student enjoyment of science and 
computer learning in elementary schools. They will involve elementary 
school teachers from these schools in science and computers to improve 
teaching effectiveness through continuously offered workshops, 
seminars, college credit courses and online courses. Improve existing 
science and computer curriculum at the elementary level to result in 
raising the level of science teaching in the middle and high schools.

Pursuant to the Republican Leadership standards on earmarks, I am 
submitting the following information for publication in the 
Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 
3326--Department of Defense Appropriations, 2010.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3326

Account: RDT&E--Navy

Amount: $2,800,000

Project: Instrumented Underwater Training Systems

Requested by: Florida Keys Community College

The Instrumented Underwater Training Systems (IUTS) program benefits 
the Department of Defense by providing mission critical training to the 
Navy and other agencies responsible for securing personnel and assets 
in maritime domains. In response to the persistent threat to forward-
deployed service personnel and assets, and the continued threat of 
attack on critical infrastructure and ports, the IUTS program ensures 
effective techniques are used by divers to identify and mitigate 
potential threats and hazards and ensures the safety of response divers 
and personnel. A


fully implemented IUTS program will protect personnel, assets, and 
critical infrastructure at both domestic and forward-deployed 
locations.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3326

Account: RDT&E--Defense Wide

Amount: $4,500,000

Project: Transformer Technology for Combat Submersibles

Requested by: STIDD Systems

This request will enable USSOCOM to conduct a formal technology 
design, development, documentation and demonstration of the TTCS. One 
prototype craft will be designed, fabricated, tested and evaluated for 
technology transition into either the USSOCOM SDV or SWCS programs of 
record.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3326

Account: RDT&E--Army

Amount: $1,500,000

Project: Minority Student Neuroscience Research Consortium

Requested by: St. Thomas University

The Department of Veterans Affairs spends over $320 million annually 
on direct costs for SCI. Other related costs for medications and 
rehabilitation may run in the billions of dollars. The lifetime costs 
for an injured person can run up to more than 1.5 million dollars. The 
goal of this program is to develop treatments for SCI repair through 
axon regeneration and functional recovery for our injured veterans.

Requested by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3326

Account: RDT&E--Army

Amount: $3,000,000

Project: Center for Ophthalmic Innovation

Requested by: University of Miami

Severe ocular injuries from combat encountered in the wars in Iraq 
and Afghanistan represent a significant and frequent source of lifetime 
visual disability and is of immediate concern to the DOD. Approximately 
10-17% of war casualties are due to eye trauma. The Center for 
Ophthalmic Innovation is successfully working to lessen the morbidity 
of traumatic ocular injuries in military operations, as well as to 
explore newer modalities to assist in the visual restoration of the 
injured personnel.

Pursuant to the Republican Leadership standards on earmarks, I am 
submitting the following information for publication in the 
Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 
3170--Financial Services Appropriations, 2010.

Requested by Rep. Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3170

Account: Small Business Administration

Amount: $100,000

Project: Institute for Community and Economic Development

Requested by: Barry University

The Barry University Institute for Community and Economic Development 
must continue to expand its reach and leverage its new Entrepreneurial 
Institute, dedicated to poverty elimination through the development of 
entrepreneurial skills in the community. The Institute delivers 
research-based education and training to minority and women-owned 
business enterprises and those providing leadership in the non-profit 
sector in South Florida. Expansion of the Institute will offer more 
small businesses, family businesses and community-based/non-profit 
organizations to meet the challenges related to the present economic 
downturn.

Requested by Rep. Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3170

Account: Small Business Administration

Amount: $300,000

Project: Institute for Intermodal Transportation

Requested by: Miami-Dade College

The Intermodal Transportation Training Center allows MDC to 
effectively meet the training requirements of all forms of 
transportation, and transportation related activities. The planned 
location of the Intermodal Transportation Center is at the Miami 
International Airport (MIA), which would situate the School in close 
proximity to the Miami Intermodal Center (MIC) currently under 
construction. This location would serve as a benefit to both the MIC 
and the school as a trained and skilled workforce is developed by the 
School to meet the ongoing employment needs at the MIC. Courses at MIA 
are set to begin January 2010.


Miami Dade College is uniquely positioned to provide this training 
through an Institute for Intermodal Transportation (IIT). MDC has a 
foundation for the coursework and training through its various 
departments and schools. A number of the educational programs are in 
aviation under its Eig-Watson School of Aviation. Additional related 
programs which would support the IIT are Miami Dade College currently 
offers 3 baccalaureate programs with numerous tracks. Over 200 
associate degrees and career training certificates are available and 
could have application to the Intermodal Institute.

Pursuant to the Republican Leadership standards on earmarks, I am 
submitting the following information for publication in the 
Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 
3288--Transportation Appropriations, 2010.

Requested by Rep. Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3288

Account: DOT, Bus and Bus Facilities

Amount: $1,000,000

Project: Transit Facility and Bus Passenger Access Lane Construction 
along US 1

Requested by: City of Key West, FL

Key West needs to construct a new full scale transit facility to 
house their buses and bus equipment. The city also needs to construct 
bus apron access to as many as 44 bus stops along US 1, which have been 
part of the JARC shuttle services in operation since August 2005.

Requested by Rep. Ros-Lehtinen

Bill number: H.R. 3288

Account: DOT, Bus and Bus Facilities

Amount: $250,000

Project: Bus Shelter Replacement

Requested by: Bal Harbour, FL

Many elderly and working age citizens utilize public transit to 
travel to and/or from Bal Harbour Village. The bus shelters currently 
in place are deteriorating and do not provide adequate shelter from the 
elements. As the economy declines, more people depend upon public 
transportation. Replacing the current shelters/benches will provide 
more adequate facilities for those waiting for public transportation in 
the hot sun, wind and rain.
