---
---

# COURT SECURITY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `214c41b65521bce7b3707ccd2c71c610`
`Mr. DURBIN — 18 April 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, pending before the Senate at this time is 
a bill to make our courts safer. This is an issue we take personally in 
Chicago because in 2005, one of our most respected Federal judges had 
her mother and husband killed in her home, murdered by an upset 
individual who didn't like the way he was treated in a courtroom. He 
stalked her family, invaded her home, killed her aging mother, and 
husband, who was the love of her life. I know this judge because I 
appointed her to the Federal bench. I have met her daughters and I know 
her close friends in Chicago. I think about her every time the issue of 
court security comes up. She is a wonderful woman who has devoted her 
life to public service. She has put in the time that we expect from 
real professionals. She has done her best to be fair and just. She 
works hard. We owe her security in the workplace and security for her 
family.

That is why Senator Obama and I introduced an appropriations bill 
right after this happened, trying to put some money into the U.S. 
Marshals Service to protect judges across the United States. That is 
what this bill is all about. There is nothing partisan about this 
legislation. There is nothing even controversial about it. This bill 
should have been passed quickly, sent to the House and approved because 
it makes a better effort to protect these judges in their homes, gives 
more resources to U.S. marshals, puts stiffer penalties in for those 
who harass and shoot at and kill those who serve us in the judiciary. 
This is basic common sense. Instead of taking up this bill and passing 
it quickly, as we should have to get it in place and to put the 
protections in place, it has been slowed down.

One of our colleagues is exercising his rights under the Senate 
rules. I said earlier I will fight for him to have the right to speak 
it, on any bill, to offer


an amendment to it, to express himself, and to have the Senate decide 
finally what the decision will be on his amendment. I respect his right 
to do that. But instead we are going to slow this bill down for 2 days. 
We will have amendments filed, six, and they are just going to sit on 
the desk while the clock runs. Instead of moving to other legislation 
which is critically important we will just sit here. That is unfair. I 
don't think that is consistent with what the American people expect of 
the Senate.

I have called on my colleagues, the one who has six amendments filed 
and any who have other amendments, please bring them to the floor right 
now, within the next hour. Let's start the debate right now. Let's set 
them for a vote as quickly as possible. Let's stop these stall tactics 
on bills as basic as this, protecting the personal security of judges 
across America.

It is time for us to get down to business in the Senate. Look around 
at all the empty chairs. Look for the person who sponsored the 
amendments to this bill. You won't find him.

It is time for us to get down to business in the Senate. People 
expect us to. This week has been a pretty horrible week when you look 
at it. We came in here trying to pass a bill that would authorize 
intelligence agencies across our Government to make America safer, 16 
different intelligence agencies, a bipartisan bill, worked on long and 
hard by Senator Rockefeller, chairman of the Intelligence Committee, 
and his staff, and Senator Bond and his staff. The bill was ready to 
go, a bill which should have passed years ago, stopped in its tracks by 
the Republican minority that said, no. Vice President Cheney objects to 
a provision in the bill relative to the interrogation of prisoners; 
imagine that he would raise that issue again. Therefore, all 
Republicans, with maybe a couple exceptions, are going to stop debate 
on the bill. That was strike 1.

Strike 2, a provision to amend the Medicare Prescription Drug Act so 
that we could have more competition and lower prices for seniors and 
disabled when they buy drugs. Some agree with it; some disagree. The 
pharmaceutical industry hates it; it cuts into their profits. It was 
worth a debate to see whether we could help seniors pay for their drugs 
and lower prices. But, no, the Republican minority said: No, we are not 
going to even debate that. We won't let you go to that. It is within 
their power to stop us, and they did it again.

Now comes this bill for court security, and for the third strike this 
week, the Republicans have said: No, we want to slow you down. We want 
to run out the clock. We want to put amendments on the table and not 
call them for consideration.

It is becoming increasingly clear what the Republican game plan is. 
We have seen it this week on three pieces of legislation. We see it 
with this bill. I have spoken to majority leader Senator Reid who spoke 
moments ago. We have important business to do. In fact, we have 
business which is very bipartisan. This bill, which has been slowed 
down by one Republican Senator, has as cosponsors Senators Specter, 
Cornyn, Collins, and Hatch, all Republican Senators. It is a bipartisan 
bill. It is not even controversial. Why aren't we doing this? It isn't 
as if there are other things going on on the Senate floor. We are 
waiting on the Senators who want to stop or slow down this bill to 
finally come and do their business. It is not too much to ask. I 
understand we are all busy. From time to time we have to leave the Hill 
to go to a committee meeting. I know I filed an amendment and waited a 
while to call it. But now this Senator has had his time. He has had the 
whole day. We should call up one amendment before we go home, just in 
good faith, to indicate that this is really a serious effort, that 
there is a substantive reason to slow down this important legislation. 
We need to remind our colleagues of our responsibility to do the 
people's business.



















Iraq


I just joined the majority leader and others in meeting with the 
President of the United States to talk about the war in Iraq. I am glad 
we had this meeting. We didn't reach a new agreement or compromise. I 
wish we had. We started a dialog, and that is important. There were 
heartfelt emotions expressed at that meeting by many of us on both 
sides of the issue, by the President, as well as by Senator Reid and 
myself and many others. Speaker Pelosi was there. The majority leader 
of the House, Steny Hoyer, was in attendance, as was Jim Clyborn, the 
majority whip, and the Republican leadership. We talked about the war 
in Iraq at length and where we need to go.

It is our belief that if we don't include language in the 
appropriations bill which says to the Iraqis that we are not going to 
stay there indefinitely, they are going to drag their feet forever when 
it comes to making the political reforms that are necessary. We are 
going to leave our soldiers stuck in the middle of a civil war. Mr. 
President, 3,311 Americans have died in service to this country while 
serving in Iraq. These are our best and bravest. They have given their 
lives, and they continue to give their lives while we debate and delay. 
It is time for us to move forward.

I suggested to the President in the moments that I had to express my 
point of view, if he won't accept a timetable for starting to bring 
American troops home, can't we at least hold the Iraqis to the 
timetable that they have offered us for political reform? They have 
missed deadline after deadline. They promised to bring their country 
together. They promised to bring their army into a leadership that will 
be effective. They have promised to try to resolve the old differences 
from the Baath Party under Saddam Hussein. Promise after promise after 
promise they have failed to keep while our soldiers fight and die every 
single day.


















 Darfur


Despite the obvious differences from that meeting, there was one 
hopeful sign. We started the meeting, and I began by praising President 
Bush for delivering a speech today at the U.S. Holocaust Museum on the 
subject of the genocide in Darfur. It was the appropriate venue for the 
speech. The Holocaust Museum offers a powerful backdrop to consider the 
horrors of genocide. I am glad the President made this speech. I 
applaud him for making it. I had hoped that he would be a little bit 
stronger, but I understand, speaking personally with the President, 
that he wants to give new U.N. General Secretary Ban Ki-moon some time 
to use his office effectively.

The President essentially today, though, by every measure, gave Sudan 
a final warning, and it is about time. The President stated that within 
a ''short period of time,'' to use his words, President Bashir of Sudan 
must take the following steps: Allow the deployment of the full joint 
African Union-United Nations peacekeeping force in the area of Darfur 
where somewhere near 400,000 people have been murdered and over 2 
million displaced. The President of Sudan must also end support for the 
Jingaweit militia, reach out to rebel leaders, allow humanitarian aid 
to reach the people of Darfur, and end his obstructionism. If he does 
not, President Bush stated, the United States will respond.

First, the U.S. will tighten economic sanctions on the Sudanese 
Government and the companies it controls. Second, the President will 
also levy sanctions against individuals who are responsible for the 
violence. Third, the U.S. will introduce a new U.N. Security Council 
resolution to apply multilateral sanctions against the Government of 
Sudan and impose an expanded arms embargo. This resolution will impose 
a ban on Sudanese offensive military flights over Darfur.

Last fall the President's special envoy talked about a January 1st 
deadline after which the United States would impose sanctions that 
would cripple the Sudanese oil industry. That deadline is months behind 
us, and the sanctions the President outlined are not as potent as they 
might be in terms of truly hitting the oil industry as I hoped they 
would.

The U.N. resolution and multilateral sanctions would be a major step 
forward. If we don't see rapid progress from the Sudanese Government, I 
urge the President to both introduce the U.N. resolution and to call 
for a vote. Let's put the countries of the world on notice that they 
must stand and be on the record on ending this genocide in Darfur.

As I said, I understand President Bush is responding to a special 
request


from U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon who asked for some more time to 
negotiate. All I can say is, I hope the Secretary General's faith that 
real progress is being made is justified. At least on paper there has 
been a breakthrough in the last few days. The Sudanese Government has 
reportedly agreed to allowing 3,000 U.N. peacekeepers to deploy. But we 
have had promises like this in the past and no action.

China, Sudan's biggest supporter and biggest customer for its oil, 
has also started taking mutant, limited, but proactive steps in recent 
weeks to convince the Sudanese to move forward on peacekeeping. China's 
Assistant Foreign Minister recently toured refugee camps full of people 
from Darfur who had fled their homes. That is not a typical stop on a 
Chinese Government tour, a positive sign that China is not blind to the 
human rights abuses going on in Sudan. China has reportedly played an 
important role recently in urging the Sudanese Government to move 
forward.

At the same time, however, China continues to oppose sanctions even 
if Khartoum continues to obstruct peacekeeping. The Chinese Defense 
Minister recently announced that China is interested in developing 
military cooperation with Sudan, whatever that could possibly mean. As 
for Sudan, while Khartoum has said it will allow deployment of 3,000 
U.N. peacekeepers, a new U.N. report details how the Sudanese 
Government is flying arms of heavy military equipment into Darfur.

This morning's New York Times has photographs of the Sudanese 
painting their airplanes to appear to be United Nations aircraft and 
African Union aircraft so that they can deceptively ship arms into this 
region that will be used to kill innocent people. That is the 
government we are dealing with in Khartoum. Sudan has promised to allow 
3,000 U.N. peacekeepers and their equipment into Darfur. If it keeps 
the promise this time, it would be a start, but what is needed, as the 
President said today at the Holocaust Museum, is the full 21,000 
combined U.N.-African Union force with the means and mandate to protect 
the people of Darfur. The people of Darfur have waited long enough for 
peace and security and the end of genocide. Now is the time to act.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.