# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 13,  CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `2158855eecfa82c6a47f97cb38e1d300`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 28 April 2009`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, I am honored to stand here today in support of the 
fiscal year 2010 budget resolution conference report.

I want to thank my friend, the Budget Committee Chairman, John 
Spratt, for his incredible work on this budget. He is smart, he is 
fair, and no one cares more about these issues.

I also want to thank Ranking Member Paul Ryan. I believe he is a 
thoughtful and bright Member of this House, even though we usually 
disagree on most of the issues of the Budget Committee.

I also want to thank the staff of the Budget Committee, Democratic 
and Republican, for their tireless effort and their commitment to 
public service.

Madam Speaker, the budget conference report that we are considering 
today represents so much more than a clean break from the past. It is a 
blueprint for the future. It is a roadmap for economic recovery and for 
investing in national priorities that will provide the American people 
with shared prosperity in the years and decades to come.

The conference report lays the groundwork for health care reform, 
clean energy and quality education. It will create jobs, support 
working families, strengthen our national defense and renew America's 
global leadership.

By cutting taxes for the middle class, $1.5 trillion in tax cuts for 
over 95 percent of the American people, Madam Speaker, and investing in 
affordable health care, education and clean energy in a fiscally 
responsible way, we are taking the first critical steps to lifting our 
economy out of recession and creating good jobs for America's workers. 
For the last 8 years, President Bush flat out mismanaged the Federal 
budget. How? By enacting huge tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans 
that led to skyrocketing deficits, by spending hundreds of billions of 
dollars on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan without paying for them, 
and by refusing to invest in the American people.

This budget cuts the deficit by more than half by 2013. And in order 
to get us back on a fiscally sustainable path, the budget provides a 
realistic assessment of our fiscal outlook. Unlike the Bush 
administration, we actually budget for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan 
instead of hiding them under the emergency spending categories. We 
budget for natural disasters that inevitably will occur.

This conference report cuts taxes for 95 percent of Americans. Let me 
repeat that, because we will hear a lot of rhetoric from the other side 
about taxes.

This budget cuts taxes for 95 percent of Americans. It provides 
immediate relief from the alternative minimum tax, it eliminates the 
estate tax on nearly all estates, and works to close corporate tax 
loopholes.

You see, all of us believe in altering the Tax Code. We believe that 
we should reduce the tax burden on the middle class and those trying to 
get into the middle. We believe that corporations shouldn't be allowed 
to shirk their responsibility by hiding their profits in offshore tax 
havens.

The other side believes we should reduce taxes for the very 
wealthiest. It's a simple difference in philosophy. Most importantly, 
this budget, the Democratic budget, actually invests in the American 
people. What a welcome change from the past 8 years.

We invest in health care reform, not just to improve health care 
quality and improve coverage, but to reduce the crushing burden of 
health care costs on American businesses. Everybody likes to talk about 
health care reform. This budget actually lays the groundwork to get it 
done.

We invest in clean energy in order to create jobs, improve the 
environment and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. We invest in 
renewable energy and energy efficiency. Everybody likes to talk about 
energy independence, but this budget actually lays the groundwork to 
get it done.

And we invest in education to reclaim our place as the best-educated 
workforce in the world. We work to expand early childhood education and 
to make college more affordable. Everybody likes to talk about 
improving education. This budget actually provides the basis to get it 
done.

And this is a budget that will allow Congress, if and when the time 
comes, to vote up or down on health care reform and education reform 
and avoid


the infamous obstructionism so characteristic of the other body and the 
other side of the aisle. It certainly doesn't guarantee passage of such 
reforms, but it will allow for and require a straight up-or-down vote 
in each Chamber.

Now I know that change is hard. I know some of my colleagues want to 
cling desperately to the failed policies of the past. But the good news 
is that despite all the nasty press releases and television ads and 
talk radio attacks on the President, the American people still support 
President Obama's vision for America.

That's why this budget is so very important. This is a budget with a 
conscience. It is a budget that believes in the American spirit, and 
it's a budget that fulfills the promises that the President made to the 
American people.

Madam Speaker, we are at a crucial moment. Our country can meet its 
potential, our children can have a better future, our economy can once 
again create good-paying jobs. But in order to make that happen, we 
need change. We need to move in a bold, innovative new direction. We 
need to pass this budget.

I urge my colleagues to join me in support of this rule and the 
underlying bill.

I reserve the balance of my time.
















 Point of Order
