# MAKE IT IN AMERICA
## `215c7a6f2d351b6c56e9ce8f6d555743`
`Mr. KAGEN â€” 15 September 2010`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Well, I'll make a brief comment.

The investment tax credit is so critical for emerging pharmaceutical 
companies--for biotechnology in particular. So when you reward people 
for doing good work instead of rewarding corporations and people for 
their wealth, you really begin to get that engine of America going, 
that small-business engine that really creates all the jobs that we 
need. I would summarize what Mr. Ryan had to say as this:

The Bush Doctrine, the Reagan Doctrine of trickle-down economics has 
failed miserably. It has rewarded people for their wealth instead of 
their work.

What we must begin to do again is to encourage people, in small 
business in particular and small banks, to take that risk, to take that 
chance and to reward you for your risk-taking and for your hard work. 
That will start the economic engine, and it will rebuild our economy as 
we go through this transformation over the next decade of becoming 
energy independent. We may not be totally independent as a Nation as 
far as growing our own energy, as far as developing our own energy, but 
we certainly have the resources here at home. Making it in America 
means not just manufacturing, making things here; it also means 
investing our hard-earned tax dollars in our own Nation's 
infrastructure.

What I object to so greatly is that we take our resources, like our 
children, and send them off to Iraq and Afghanistan, and we send $2 
billion a week into Afghanistan, rebuilding buildings we've never 
destroyed and building schools that they may need, but we need schools 
as well and water treatment plants. Look, if we're going to build an 
infrastructure, it should be here in these United States. That is where 
my people live. I don't represent people overseas.

Finally, with manufacturing, invest in infrastructure. We also need 
to balance our trade deals, about which you and I have had discussions 
with the Asian nations, to make sure that our


trade is balanced. That way, we can generate the higher waged jobs that 
we need here at home--jobs that will keep people in their homes, that 
will feed our tax base, that will rebuild our schools, and rebuild our 
middle class.