---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `21929c5cd7d843f54140b1407bbd6837`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 13 March 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, let me thank the gentleman 
from Virginia for the leadership of the Budget Committee and the CBC 
budget effort that he has led continuously, and Congresswoman 
Kilpatrick, the chairperson of the Congressional Black Caucus.

It is important to note that I think Americans are tired of the ''I's 
and me's'' budget, and that is the budget of this administration, a lot 
of ''I's,'' a lot of ''me's,'' but never a lot of ''we's.''

I think it is evident that this budget, the Congressional Black 
Caucus budget, reflects some of the startling facts that Americans are 
facing. First, the loss of 63,000 jobs in the last month under this 
administration, the categorizing of this administration as second only 
to former President Hoover in having the worst economy in the Nation's 
history. And, of course, if you just go out and talk to Mr. and Mrs. 
Smith or Mr. and Mrs. Gonzalez or many others, they will tell you that 
a recession is on the way.



This budget acknowledges the needs of our Nation. It provides the 
honor to our veterans by increasing that budget for health care, 
benefits and educational opportunities $60.9 billion. Today we honored 
the wounded warriors. We spoke to some of them, who said that we are 
now being assessed for our benefits.

This is what this budget does: it provides more dollars for Community 
Development Block Grants going into our community for nutrition 
programs and housing programs by $27.4 billion. I can tell you that the 
City of Houston has 1,500 senior citizens on a waiting list to rehab 
their homes that need this budget.

In addition, this administration has had the worst civil rights 
enforcement ever in the history of the United States. This budget ups 
the President's budget by $200 million to help those who have been 
discriminated against.

As you can see, this tells you about the income of Americans under 
this administration. It is now minus. Minus. Americans are losing 
money. They are now losing income. We are now in the red. Americans are 
struggling. If you listen to the Nation's reports about foreclosures, 
you will find out that Americans are losing their homes by the 
hundreds. You will find out that the foreclosure market is stalled to 
the extent that so many people are losing their homes and not trying to 
regain them. What does that mean? People are out in the streets looking 
for housing.

Let me applaud Mr. Scott and the CBC budget team for recognizing the 
concept of competitiveness. For in addition to reflecting the need for 
increased science activity, I am very glad that they have added moneys 
to aeronautics. They have likewise put in a $175 million plus-up on 
aeronautics research.

Right now as we stand here today, Endeavor is making its way to the 
international space station. It is there now putting forward 
outstanding research that will bring about jobs. And that is 
maintained.

Let me also thank them in my concluding remarks to recognize that we 
must continue to provide for the soldiers, but we want those troops 
home. We have in this budget language that suggests that any dollars 
given to the administration must be used to redeploy our troops home. 
These are the same troops in Iraq and Afghanistan who have been 
redeployed once, twice, three times, four times. Their families are 
suffering. This bill provides us with an outlet for these returning 
soldiers by increasing the educational budget and providing, of course, 
more for health care, and, yes, fighting the international drudge of 
HIV/AIDS.

So I am grateful for a budget that does not stand on I's and me's. It 
stands on the we's and the us of America. It gives the Americans, Mr. 
and Mrs. America, the opportunity to dig out of a hole, to stand above 
this terrible income gap, and to be able to stand again in a great 
Nation.

This is a great budget. I ask my colleagues to support it.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Congressional Black Caucus 
(CBC) Budget Substitute for the Fiscal Year Budget for 2009, introduced 
by my distinguished colleague from Michigan, Representative Carolyn 
Cheeks Kilpatrick and my colleague from Virginia, Representative Robert 
C. ''Bobby'' Scott.

While I support the Budget as put forth by our majority on the Budget 
Committee. I believe there is more that needs to be done when this 
country is on the verge of a recession, the housing market is at one of 
its worst points in history, and we have a growing population of 
uninsured Americans.













CBC Budget Rescinds Tax Cuts


The CBC budget rescinds tax cuts for the top two income tax rates and 
rescinds capital gains and dividend tax cuts in addition to closing 
other loopholes. By rescinding these tax cuts, the CBC budget fully 
funds No Child Left behind (NCLB), the State Children's Health 
Insurance Program (SCHIP), and it provides additional funding for the 
fight against global AIDS, Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) 
and higher education among other items.















Balances the Budget


Even after funding these priorities, the CBC alternative budget still 
manages to balance the budget after FY12 and in fact creates a surplus 
of $141 billion. The Democratic budget is also in surplus in FY12, but 
does not fund the priorities of the American people at the same levels 
as the CBC budget. In comparison, the President's budget deficit in the 
FY12 is -31 billion.

Moreover, in FY08-FY12, the CBC budget's total cumulative deficit is 
$107 billion better than the Democratic budget and $339 billion better 
than the President's budget. As a result, over the next five years, the 
CBC budget saves $18.3 billion on interest on the national debt 
compared to the Democratic budget and 27.7 billion compared to the 
Presidents budget.

The bottom line is that the CBC budget chooses programs important to 
the American people over tax cuts for those who need it least. At the 
same time, it reduces the deficit and reaches a surplus in FY 2012.








Advancing the Priorities of the American People


We must not only be economically healthy, but assist in balancing it 
with the health, education, and security of our citizens. The CBC 
budget will advance the priorities of the American people by:

Covering all eligible children with health insurance through funding 
SCHIP, with $119.3 billion more than the President's budget and $84.6 
billion more than the Democratic budget to help one of our most 
vulnerable populations--children;

Ensuring No Child Left Behind (NCLB) has increased funding for Head 
Start programs, IDEA, college access programs, college loan programs 
and job training with $162.7 billion more than the President's budget 
and $101.2 billion more than the Democratic budget;

Honoring our veterans by increasing funding for health care, benefits 
and educational opportunities with $60.9 billion more than the 
President's budget, and $17.7 billion than the Democratic budget;

Making more local communities with support through increases to 
Community Development Block Grants, nutrition programs and housIng 
programs with $27.4 billion more than the President's budget and $20 
billion more than the Democratic budget; and


Contributing to the global community by investing in child survival 
and, health, international family planning and the global effort to 
fight AIDS with $11.5 billion more than the President's budget and 
$16.9 billion more on international affairs than the Democratic budget.















 Health Initiatives


The CBC budget under the Health Function 550 included a program that 
I continually push for increased funding, and that is the Juvenile 
Diabetes Research Foundation. Hope for juvenile diabetes cure lies in 
research. Real progress is being made, thanks largely to government 
funding of the Special Diabetes Program. However without the renewal of 
the program, federal support for Type I Diabetes will be reduced by 35 
percent

The health and health care spending in the CBC budget alternative is 
the fiscally, socially and morally appropriate and responsible response 
to the President's FY 09 healthcare budget proposal, which showcases 
grave cuts to every office and agency, as well as to every program that 
is integrally important to efforts to eliminate health disparities and 
improve the health, well being and life opportunities of all Americans.

The CBC budget alternative, unlike the President's FY 09 budget, 
strengthens our nation's overwhelmed and under-resourced health care 
system, champions the critically important health care needs of health 
care seekers, and fills the gaps in health care access and quality that 
detrimentally affect our nation's health care providers and the overall 
health care system.

The CBC budget alternative makes a more than $174 billion additional 
investment in the health, health care, well being and thus life 
opportunities of not only African Americans, but all Americans. 
Additionally, the budget makes this very wise investment as it 
generates monies to reduce the nation's deficit.

The CBC budget alternative strengthens and expands the State 
Children's Health Insurance Program to ensure that the majority of the 
nation's 9 million uninsured children have access to health care. This 
is of particular relevance to the CBC because a disproportionate number 
of the 9 million uninsured children today are African American or 
Hispanic. Without reliable access to quality health care, children are 
in poorer health, are less productive in school and in their 
communities, and are less likely to fulfill their life's potential.















 Health Equity Fund


The CBC budget alternative creates the Health Equity Fund, which will 
help ensure that this nation take a giant step forward in efforts to 
reduce and eliminate all health disparities and achieve health equity.















Strengthens Medicare


The CBC budget alternative strengthens Medicare--a critically 
important program that ensures that our nations' senior citizens, as 
well as those living with disabilities, have access to the health care 
services and treatments they need to live longer, healthier and fuller 
lives.

The CBC budget alternative also: saves Title VII (health professions 
training) programs, which are integral to strengthening and


expanding tomorrow's health care workforce; funds the Ryan White HIV/
AIDS Program in a manner that allows it to expand ADAP, the efforts of 
National Minority AIDS Education Training Centers, and the other 
important services and treatments offered to our most vulnerable with 
HIV infection; funds the Minority AIDS Initiative in a manner that will 
build the needed capacity in racial and ethnic minority communities 
throughout the nation to respond and address HIV/AIDS;

It is our children that will bring forth a thriving future. We need 
to invest in tomorrow by investing in them today. This starts with 
their physical well-being. Children, who cannot see the doctor when 
they are sick, research programs that are not adequately funded to find 
a cure for diseases such as diabetes, hurt our future generations, and 
not help lay a foundation for a bright future.










Education and African Americans in Texas


A quality education continues to be the best pathway to social and 
economic mobility in this country. As a Member and Senior Whip of the 
Congressional Black Caucus, I have consistently advocated for the 
maintenance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities. This 
budget provides greater funding to our nation's schools and colleges 
than even our Democratic budget supplies.

For African Americans health and education concerns spill beyond 
budgetary issues into the criminal justice consequences. In Texas, over 
87,000 African-Americans are incarcerated compared to approximately 
48,000 African-Americans attending college or university.

The disparity between the percentages of our youth in prison versus 
the number of young people in college, particularly in the African-
American community, is disturbing to say the least. Higher education 
continues to be one of the main pathways to social and economic 
mobility, particularly in the African-American and Hispanic 
communities.












The Republican Budget Substitute


Under the Republican Budget the national debt continues to explode. 
The gross federal debt reached $9.0 trillion at the end of 2007. The 
CBO projects that the debt will rise by a total of $3.9 trillion at the 
end of 2008. This unprecedented rise in debt puts our President in the 
history books. During the seven years of the current Administration, 
the government has posted the highest deficits in this nation's 
history. The President's 2009 Budget continues the failed policies that 
brought us to this point.




 CBC Budget Compared to the President's and Democratic Budgets


The CBC budget improves the deficit by $564 billion over the 
President's budget and $152 billion over the Democratic budget.

The CBC budget saves on interest on the national debt $48.1 billion 
compared to the President's budget, and $22.7 billion compared to the 
Democratic budget.

The CBC budget spends more over five years on healthcare, veterans, 
education and justice than either the President's budget or the 
Democratic budget. The CBC budget also addresses the President's 
shortfalls in funding critical Homeland Security programs such as the 
Port Security Grant Program and grants for First Responders.










 Port of Houston and Security Measures


Just yesterday, I had the pleasure of meeting with the Port Authority 
of Houston. They were here to discuss their security measures but also 
their need for continued federal dollars. The Bush Administration 
claims they want to secure our nation but cuts funding in areas that 
are important to our local security such as the ports in Houston, 
Texas. The CBC seeks to cure that shortfall.













Pay-Go and Sunset Provisions


The President's budget and the Republican alternatives violate pay-go 
and the fiscal responsibility that reconciliation is intended to 
achieve, by proposing tax cuts that are not offset.

The sunsets for the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts were part of the tax 
legislation which Republicans voted for and passed. The expiration of 
the tax cuts is their policy. The Democratic budgets actually calls for 
the extension of many of these tax cuts, but responsibly requires that 
tax cut extensions, like other policies, must be fiscally sound, and 
not make the deficit worse.

















 Conclusion


This important piece of legislation gives us a budget that is 
balanced fiscally and morally. It does not sacrifice the great many 
programs and services that this nation needs for a War that the 
President seems never to end.

Defense of our nation is important, however, we must not support only 
one portion of the budget to the detriment of everything else. The CBC 
budget makes tough choices that result in a fiscally and morally 
responsible budget that will fund essential programs and services vital 
to our communities and the American people as a whole.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the Congressional Black 
Caucus Budget Substitute for FY2009.