---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.J. RES. 45,  INCREASING THE STATUTORY LIMIT ON THE PUBLIC DEBT
## `21937c14bbae9d40973cff143af8e7be`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 4 February 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, my Republican colleagues are impressive. They're 
impressive in their ability to cover their


tracks. They make a mess; they cover their tracks. They make a bigger 
mess; they cover their tracks. They drove this economy into a ditch. 
They're trying to cover their tracks. Well, that's fine for playing 
politics on the House floor, but the facts are a stubborn thing. The 
facts are that $4 trillion of Bush tax cuts were unpaid, $4 trillion: 
$700 billion for the Bush prescription drug bill, unpaid for; $3.5 
trillion in mandatory revenue costs of the Bush economic collapse that 
we had to endure because of the lousy economy; record job losses in the 
Bush economy.

Now, the fact of the matter is that we are faced with difficult 
economic times, and I would like to think that my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle would at least take some responsibility in 
helping to fix things. My colleague talks about the Recovery Act as if 
it meant nothing.

According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, the 
Recovery Act is already responsible for as many as 2.4 million jobs 
through the end of 2009. An analysis by the Council of Economic 
Advisers also found that the Recovery Act is responsible for about 2 
million jobs, and that's not counting the jobs that were saved. In my 
home city of Worcester alone, 500 teachers and support staff would have 
been laid off without the Recovery Act; 22 cops would have been laid 
off and 17 firefighters. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
would say, Fire them. Fire the teachers. Fire the cops. Fire the 
firefighters. That's irresponsible.

So I also point out that former McCain advisor Mark Zandi said that 
the stimulus was key to the strong fourth quarter growth in the U.S. 
economy. We just heard the news from the Department of Commerce that 
the U.S. economy grew at 5.7 percent from October through December, a 
better than expected gain.

And this is what Mark Zandi, the Republican advisor, said: I think 
the stimulus was key to the fourth quarter. It was really critical to 
business fixed investment because there was a tax bonus depreciation in 
the stimulus that expired in December and juiced up fixed investment. 
And also, it was very critical to housing and residential investment 
because of the housing tax credit. And the decline in government 
spending would have been measurably greater without the money from the 
stimulus, because the stimulus was very, very important to the fourth 
quarter. That's a Republican advisor, McCain advisor, Mark Zandi.

Now, I would just say, Madam Speaker, that those of us who voted for 
the Recovery Act have a responsibility to vote ''yes'' on this rule. 
But I would also say that those who voted for the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, wars that were not paid for, somehow it's okay to ask all 
of our men and women to sacrifice, but we do nothing. But those wars 
were not paid for. But if you voted for the Bush tax cuts, the $4 
trillion that was unpaid for, at least have the responsibility to come 
to the floor and do the right thing.

So I would urge my colleagues, Madam Speaker, to vote for this rule 
and vote for PAYGO. During the Bush years, no one talked about the 
deficit except to say that it didn't matter. That was Dick Cheney and 
some of my other colleagues. It does matter. We need to get the deficit 
under control. We need to help grow this economy. Statutory PAYGO is 
one way to do it.

I reserve the balance of my time.

