---
---

# HONORING AIR WINGS AT TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
## `219cf2ee41e7d157cc65bd708683285d`
`Mr. GARAMENDI — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 1585, a 
resolution expressing appreciation of the House of Representatives for 
the service and sacrifice of the members of the 60th Air Mobility Wing, 
349th Air Reserve Wing, 15th Expeditionary Mobility Task Force, 615th 
Contingency Response Wing, and Travis Air Force Base.

Affectionately known as ''Team Travis,'' the team includes 13,900 
active duty reservists and civilians of the wings. Travis was 
established in 1942, originally named the Fairfield-Suisun Army Air 
Base. In 1951, it was renamed Travis Air Force Base, and its vital 
missions have continued.

Travis Air Force Base has been called the ''Gateway to the Pacific,'' 
and brave men and women who have served at Travis know a thing or two 
about their neighbors, particularly those across the Pacific and in 
every corner of the globe. Brave men and women of the Travis Air Force 
Base have fought in World War II, the Korean War, the Cuban Missile 
Crisis, the Vietnam War, and the Persian Gulf War. More recently, Team 
Travis has played a major role in providing airlift, air refueling, and 
aero-medical evacuation in support of combat missions in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, flying 102,581 hours for Operation Iraqi Freedom and 
70,940 hours for Operation Enduring Freedom. That's a lot of flight 
time.

They have carried out vital humanitarian missions in Berlin, Darfur, 
Rwanda, and Haiti. Indeed, after a 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck 
Haiti on January 12, 2010, Team Travis conducted the first humanitarian 
airlift mission, provided search and rescue personnel, medical experts, 
and supplies, and facilitated delivery of more than 1 million pounds of 
cargo during the duration of the Haitian relief effort. They also set 
up the logistics at the airport, which was destroyed.

After the tragic 2004 tsunami that devastated much of South Asia, 
Travis delivered more than 2 million pounds of supplies, providing a 
full third of the entire U.S. relief effort. Given their broad 
contribution to humanitarian causes around the world, it's clear that 
the 60th Air Mobility Wing and Team Travis valiantly fulfill their 
motto of being ''America's First Choice.''

Not only is Travis a vital and valued base furthering American 
missions and humanitarianism abroad, it is also a very, very important 
part of the Solano County economy. Travis spends roughly $300 million a 
year in Solano County. They are the largest sector of the economy, and 
at least 5,600 jobs outside of the air base are included.

For the past 12 years, our good friend, Ike Skelton, has been a 
consistent supporter of Travis, and I want to thank him for the honor 
of presenting this bill today and for his support in making it possible 
for this bill to move beyond this committee. He has been an 
extraordinary leader.

Today, let's honor the Travis Air Force Base entire family while 
offering our condolences to the families of the bravest of the brave 
servicemembers of Team Travis and all of those who have lost their 
lives in the defense of the United States. Travis is home to thousands 
of heroes, and it is my privilege and honor to represent them here in 
Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support House Resolution 1585.

I reserve the balance of my time.