# ENERGY AND THE HIGHWAY TRUST FUND
## `21a0e964ca1a08ed00ac53dea620925a`
`Mrs. BOXER — 9 September 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I note that Senator Murray will be coming, 
and I am hopeful she will arrive shortly and then I will yield, after 5 
minutes, my remaining time.

Senator Dorgan is very eloquent on the issue of energy and the issue 
of renewables. We have no more excuses. How many filibusters do we have 
to have around this place before we get the other side to relent?

In my State, we are on the cutting edge of alternative energies. We 
have part of our coastline that is drilled upon, but part of it is 
preserved because it supports a very robust tourist and recreation 
industry. So we have found a balance in our State. But we are going to 
lose a lot of momentum if we don't get on with at least going after the 
speculators and renewing these important tax breaks to alternative 
energies, and also, if I might say, tell the oil companies they need to 
drill.

Mr. President, I note Senator Murray has come to the floor, and I 
want to inform her that I took 15 minutes and I am going to take 5 and 
leave her 10, if that is all right with her, unless she needs more 
time.

All right. So, Mr. President, if you will tell me when 5 minutes has 
expired from this point.

I am so pleased Senator Murray has come to the floor. She works so 
hard to fund the transportation priorities of our Nation over in the 
Appropriations Committee, and my work is at the Environment and Public 
Works Committee, where we authorize the highway bill every 5 years.

We know today, because we have been informed by Secretary of 
Transportation Peters, that there is a dangerous shortfall in the 
Federal fund that helps our States pay for critical highway 
construction. We have tried to fix this problem many times--
unfortunately, without the help of the Bush administration. Now we get 
an SOS: Thursday they are going to start reducing the funds to the 
States.

Happily, they have awakened to the reality, but, unhappily, they have 
not talked to Republican Senators because last night, when Senator Reid 
tried to solve this problem so we can keep our construction going, keep 
our funds flowing to the States, there was an objection from the 
Republican side. Mind you, we are talking about an $8 billion sum of 
money that was taken from the fund years ago--in 1992, I believe it 
was; is that right? Or later than that? I am sorry, 1998. We borrowed 
$8 billion from the trust fund. Now all we are saying is we need to pay 
it back so we can make sure we can continue to build these important 
highways, fix our bridges, and help our transit systems. The fact is, 
if we do not do this, we are looking at tens of thousands, if not 
millions, of jobs lost.

Mr. President, I know you come from a State that is struggling 
economically, desperately needing change. I come from a State that is 
in a recession. We have horrible problems. The housing bust has 
affected us, and what is keeping us going, frankly, are solar energy 
projects, the wind energy projects, the highway projects. If, in fact, 
the Republicans continue to stand in the way of replenishing the 
highway trust fund, my State will be in big trouble. What will happen 
is that funds that were set aside for my State for important projects 
will not be forthcoming. My State of California, with more than 35 
million people, receives more than $3 billion for Federal funding for 
highways per year. According to the California Department of 
Transportation, if no action is taken to avert the shortfall, 
California would experience a potential revenue reduction of $930 
million. We are talking almost $1 billion to my State.

California is not alone. My Republican colleagues who come here and 
say: No, don't worry, forget it, who cares--I don't hear one word about 
any trouble spending American taxpayer dollars overseas. I never heard 
one of them say: We are spending $5,000 a second in Iraq on the war, 
let's bring some of that home--oh, no. But they are willing to make our 
people suffer here at home.

Enough is enough is enough. The other day, the President announced he 
is sending $1 billion to Georgia. For a minute, I thought: Gee, Atlanta 
is in need of some help. Oh, no, it is the country of Georgia. Why? 
They had a war, as we all know, and we are compassionate toward them. 
But the war cost them $1 billion. I ask rhetorically, are there 
countries in Europe that can help the country of Georgia? I don't mind 
doing our part. We say we had nothing to do with the war that started 
there. We are certainly angry at Russia for the way it responded to the 
incursion of Georgian troops. We believe it was overkill. We all agree 
on that. We all want to help. But $1 billion to the country of Georgia 
while Atlanta, GA, and Los Angeles, CA, and all our other cities and 
towns and States are struggling and suffering and losing jobs? Enough 
is enough.

I am going to work with my colleague and my dear friend, Senator 
Murray, who is such a leader on the funding of these programs we 
painstakingly authorize every 5 years. We are going to be on this floor 
as often as we can to move this, to ask unanimous consent. We will let 
our Republican friends know. This is not a sneak attack. We are not 
going to do it when they are not aware of it. We are going


to move to fix this problem every day, maybe several times a day, until 
our Republican friends relent.

I have used the 5 minutes. This is just the start of a battle I am 
happy to be engaged in on behalf of the American people.

I yield my time to Senator Murray, the remaining 10 minutes.