---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `21a6573ec889c7c77287c071cf02d9d0`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this renewed 
debate on the war in Iraq. Iraq is today's signature issue, and it is 
one of the most divisive and complex ones before this Congress. The 
choices we make regarding Iraq will establish a legacy for the United 
States that will define our policy toward the Middle East region for a 
generation or longer. For that reason, it is my hope that we, as an 
institution and, indeed, as a country can agree upon a policy that will 
best protect our national interests and those of our allies and 
supports those servicemembers and civiians--and their families--who so 
bravely serve our country today in Iraq and elsewhere around the world.

If enacted, H.R. 2956, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act, 
the legislation before us today, would significantly change the 
direction of current operations in Iraq. Notably, this legislation 
would require the Secretary of Defense to commence the reduction of the 
number of United States Armed Forces personnel deployed in Iraq--
beginning as early as 120 days after enactment of this bill--to a more 
limited presence by April 1, 2008. Also notable, this legislation would 
require the President to submit to Congress a new comprehensive 
strategy that would guide future operations in Iraq and that would 
include specific plans for diplomatic initiatives to engage United 
States allies and others in the region to bring stability to Iraq.

This strategy, according to H.R. 2956, would be written to reflect an 
honest assessment of the United States' national security interests in 
Iraq and the broader Middle East region. The document would be written 
to include the diplomatic, political, economic, and military components 
of a comprehensive strategy to maintain and advance such interests as 
the Armed Forces are redeployed from Iraq. This bill takes into account 
the importance of protecting United States diplomatic personnel and


combating terrorism in Iraq in any redeployment strategy. The strategy 
would also include a justification of the minimum force levels required 
to protect United States national security interests in Iraq after 
April 1, 2008, based upon a description of the specific missions of the 
Armed Forces to be undertaken. Of those missions, the strategy would 
require an assessment of the extent to which military personnel would 
fulfill roles traditionally performed by diplomatic personnel.

H.R. 2956 will generate Significant debate. Withdrawal timelines and 
a date have been discussed during recent debate on this issue. 
Consensus on this aspect of this bill will remain hard to reach. But 
this bill helps advances our national discussion with respect to the 
war in Iraq by calling for a new comprehensive strategy. Such a 
comprehensive strategy is long overdue.

I introduced H.R. 744, the Iraq Policy Revitalization and 
Congressional Oversight Enhancement Act on January 31, 2007. H.R. 744 
would help enhance congressional oversight of Operation Iraqi Freedom 
by requiring the President to transmit periodically to Congress a 
consolidated, comprehensive report that would detail the terms of 
completion for Operation Iraqi Freedom. The bill would also require the 
President to seek to enter into a multilateral agreement--based on that 
plan--to help provide for the completion of Operation Iraqi Freedom. I 
am encouraged that the legislation before us today would require a 
similar plan be drafted by the President and communicated to Congress. 
Our soldiers and diplomats need a comprehensive, actionable plan that 
defines what it is that they need to accomplish in order to 
successfully complete their missions.

It is true the Government of Iraq must increasingly shoulder the 
burden of, and better fulfill its obligation to, govern from moderate 
positions, with uniformity, and with regard to the rule of law. But 
recent history tells us that we cannot rely on the Government of Iraq 
to govern in that manner. As H.R. 744 notes, the inability or 
unwillingness of the Government of Iraq to govern in moderate terms 
contributes to violence against United States servicemembers and 
Coalition forces, creates barriers to national reconciliation in Iraq, 
and impedes the expeditious completion of Operation Iraqi Freedom and 
the return of our servicemembers to their peacetime duty stations. The 
outcome of policies that are overly dependent upon a reportedly broken, 
corrupt, and sectarian government delivering on complicated policies, 
against great odds, and during a compressed period of time is 
uncertain. This fact underscores the importance of and the need for a 
new comprehensive strategy.

I believe that continued, honest and open exchange of views on the 
substance of what our country and our allies must achieve in Iraq in 
order to complete Operation Iraqi Freedom is needed. Finding an 
achievable, expeditious, and honorable way to complete Operation Iraqi 
Freedom should be a primary goal for all of us. We owe this to those 
who have sacrificed so much for this mission. But the situation in Iraq 
will not yield a solution easily. Nevertheless, we must endeavor to 
find one. In doing so we will be helping shape in the best way possible 
the legacy future generations of Americans will inherit and the one we 
will have to defend to history. The United States assumed a moral 
obligation to bring a minimum of order to Iraq when we, in a pre-
emptive manner, attacked that county four years ago. History will judge 
us harshly if we act to abandon this obligation. The consideration of 
H.R. 2956 allows us an opportunity to formulate a national strategy 
that more effectively addresses the realities of Iraq.