---
---

# None
## `21a65042edce50883b1663a64b5d3d11`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 20 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Because I have to take off a few minutes early, and 
I want to go through real quick, I want to talk about what these folks 
who say they are going to vote against this bill, what they are voting 
against from the veterans' standpoint, okay.

Now, these are folks who consistently say, Mr. Speaker, we support 
the troops, work for the troops. We have got to get the troops back. I 
think we all believe that, but there will be an opportunity on Thursday 
to really put your voting card where all the rhetoric is.

Defense health care, we add $1.7 billion of an increase to the 
President's request. Here is what you are voting against if you vote 
against the supplemental. You are voting against an additional $450 
million for post-traumatic stress disorder and counseling.

You are going to vote against $450 million for traumatic brain injury 
care and research, and if you have been to Walter Reed, as we all have, 
you will see unbelievable brain injuries.

You will be voting against $730 million to prevent health care fee 
increases for our troops.

You are going to vote against $20 million to address the problem at 
Walter Reed, and you are going to vote against $14.8 million for burn 
care.

Now, that is just defense health care. Now veterans health care. Now, 
we have got to support these veterans coming back; an additional $1.7 
billion above the President's request for veterans health care.

If you vote against this supplemental, here is what you are voting 
against.



You are voting against $550 million to address the backlog in 
maintaining VA health care facilities. You will vote against $250 
million for medical administration to ensure there is sufficient 
personnel to support the growing number of Iraqi and Afghanistan troops 
coming back. That was the major problem at Walter Reed because of the 
contracting issue, because some people had to make some money on the 
deal; $229 million for treating the Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. It 
is a growing number, $100 million for contract mental health care and 
$62 million to help speed up the process.

Now, there are other things in here. We are going to talk about 
readiness.

But if you vote against this, that is what you are voting against. I 
would hate to see the political commercials that may be run if you are 
on the other end of this thing.

I mean, that is just, I wouldn't want to be in that position, but 
that is what is in the bill. So rhetoric is rhetoric, action is action, 
and it is $1.7 billion more for defense health care, $1.7 billion more 
for veterans health care.