---
---

# None
## `21a8276f6e98f79995187aa9e55e7edb`
`Mr. BAIRD — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. BAIRD. Madam Speaker, it is indeed an honor for me to be here 
along with such distinguished colleagues giving just praise and 
recognition to a nation which is a leader in a very, very difficult 
environment. I want to thank Ms. Ros-Lehtinen and the distinguished 
gentleman from American Samoa, and I particularly want to thank the 
chairman of the committee, Mr. Lantos, for supporting and introducing 
this resolution.

We all know the Middle East is a region which is fraught with 
difficulties. If ever there is a region that needs and deserves models 
of courage, integrity and vision that is such a region, and if ever 
there were such models of integrity, vision and courage, Jordan and 
King Abdullah II are precisely those models.

In the most recent municipal elections, we saw not only a commitment 
to democratic reforms, but a commitment to moving forward with women's 
rights, and as many of us who have had the privilege traveling to 
Jordan know, the kingdom has been a real leader in this region, not 
only in promoting democratic reforms, but seeing that women are 
promoted to high positions of office within the cabinet and within the 
Parliament. It is a lesson that not only nations within the Middle East 
but within the world at large could benefit from.

In addition, the Kingdom of Jordan and King Abdullah II have led 
efforts to try to bring Islamic scholars from around the world to craft 
new visions for modern, pluralistic, tolerant and progressive visions 
of Islam, and the Oman declaration, which does not get nearly the 
attention it deserves, has been, I think, a visionary statement guiding 
and inspiring many people throughout the region.

In addition, I think it is worth saying that the Kingdom of Jordan 
has stepped up to try to help in the region. As we deal with the 
conflict in Iraq, they have provided valuable training to the Iraqi 
police and others. One of the challenges Jordan faces right now is the 
influx of nearly 1 million refugees, as was mentioned. This is a 
country that faces challenges in terms of energy costs, water 
availability, et cetera, and still, with all the challenges they face, 
they have reached out to try to assist others.

We have talked a lot in this body and elsewhere about the need for 
models in the Middle East in the hope that Iraq could one day become a 
model of democracy. I certainly share that hope. But I would say to my 
colleagues, we already have some very, very good models in that region, 
and it is deserved that we would commend them and recognize them today. 
Jordan is precisely such a model. King Abdullah is precisely such a 
leader.

I am grateful that my colleagues today would take the time and the 
effort to recognize such achievements by such a courageous leader in 
such a wonderful country.

I would urge my colleagues to visit Jordan, to meet with their King, 
with the members of their Parliament and their cabinet officials, and I 
am sure they will share my sense of deep admiration and respect for 
what has been happening there.

So I urge passage of this legislation. I hope it marks a positive 
step, not only in recognition of Jordan, but a step in which this body 
finds ways to acknowledge the many positive achievements that are 
taking place in a region which we all know has many difficulties. But 
if we only focus on the difficulties or the bad news and we neglect the 
good news and the accomplishments, particularly when they are achieved 
by nations and individuals of such prestige and courage as Jordan, we 
would be missing a golden opportunity.

Thankfully, today, this House of Representatives will not miss that 
opportunity. We will acknowledge and recognize the recent elections and 
reforms by the Kingdom of Jordan and extend a hand of friendship and 
admiration to all the people of Jordan and to King Abdullah II himself.

With that, I thank all of those who cosponsored this legislation on 
both sides of the aisle. It truly has been a bipartisan effort.

Madam Speaker, I urge passage of this fine resolution.