---
---

# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `21b0374e469812e4898229f8c6a4fa7b`
`Mr. DORGAN — 22 January 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, some of my colleagues have spoken today 
about the difficulty in the economy. I am concerned about it, as are 
virtually all Americans at this point. The stock market seems to be 
bouncing around like a yo-yo. The economy is slowing and consumer 
spending is down. Recently, there was a substantial increase in 
unemployment in a single month--and a whole series of items that 
suggest there are real economic problems.

My colleague from New Hampshire said: I am concerned about a stimulus 
package. So am I, but in my judgment, we need to err on the side of 
taking action rather than err on the side of doing nothing. The Federal 
Reserve Board this morning cut interest rates by 75 basis points. That 
is a blunt instrument of monetary policy to try to address what is seen 
as a serious weakness in this economy.

I want to say this: No matter what we do--and we almost certainly 
will produce some sort of stimulus package--I believe a stimulus 
package should provide some tax rebates to middle and lower income 
people. It also ought to provide an extension of unemployment benefits. 
We have done that during previous economic downturns. I think a 
stimulus package should provide investment tax credits for businesses 
with an end date and other temporary tax incentives to persuade 
businesses to make capital investments now when the economy would 
benefit most from it. So we should do two things: We should put money 
in the hands of consumers, middle to lower income consumers, and we 
also should stimulate businesses to make needed capital investments 
earlier rather than later in order to prime the pump with respect to 
the economy.

I also think it is important to consider, even as we talk about 
stimulus, making investments in this country's infrastructure. There is 
nothing that puts people back to work more quickly than money that goes 
to building roads and bridges and making other improvements in this 
country's infrastructure that are so desperately needed. Many of us are 
working on and talking about that issue. But that ought to be a part of 
a second phase of a stimulus package. To ignore that, in my judgment, 
is to ignore significant job-creating opportunities at a time when we 
desperately need those opportunities.

Having said all of that, I believe we need to act to provide 
confidence to the American people about the future--after all, that is 
what the business cycle is about. If people are confident about the 
future, they manifest that confidence. They take the trip they wanted 
to take. They buy the car they wanted to buy. They do the things that 
manifest confidence in the future. That represents expansion.

If they feel as if the future has some troublesome aspects, they say: 
I am going to defer taking the trip, I am going to defer buying that 
car or piece of equipment, I am going to defer purchasing that piece of 
furniture, and then the economy contracts.

There are some in Washington with an overinflated sense of self who 
think this is a ship of state with an engine room. And you get out of 
the engine room and you dial the knobs and the switches and the 
levers--M-1 B, taxes and all of these things--and somehow the ship of 
state just sails right on forward.

That is not the case at all. This ship of state moves or fails to 
move based on the people's expectation about the future. If they are 
optimistic, they do things that express that optimism, and the economy 
expands.

I wish to talk for a moment about some of the fundamentals. We can 
genuflect here and even do some dancing in the Senate Chamber about the 
issue of stimulus packages, but if we don't address the fundamentals, 
we are not going to get out of this problem.

Every single day, 7 days a week, all year long, we import $2 billion 
more in goods than we export. So we run up a


bill of $700 billion plus a year in trade deficits. Our trade situation 
is an abysmal failure. Do you think the rest of the country doesn't 
know that? Do you think that has no impact on the falling dollar? Of 
course it does. It is one of the reasons the dollar is falling.

In addition to that, we have a fiscal policy that has been reckless. 
Last year, we had a $196 billion request from the President in front of 
us, none of it paid for--add it to the debt, he says--for Iraq and 
Afghanistan and restoring military accounts. Well, that is $16 billion 
a month, $4 billion a week, and none of it paid for. That is on top of 
the yearly deficit, which is understated. It uses all the Social 
Security money as if it were other revenue in order to show a lower 
deficit.


The American people know better and so do the financial markets. They 
see the combination of a reckless fiscal policy and a trade policy that 
is deeply in debt. They see a country whose fundamentals are out of 
line. These electronic herds, called the currency buyers or currency 
traders, when they see these things and they run against the currency, 
a country is in trouble. We have to get our fundamentals in order. We 
need to fix our trade policy, stop these hemorrhaging deficits, and we 
need to fix our fiscal policy.

We can't say yes to a President who says let's fight a war and do tax 
cuts for wealthy Americans at the same time. Let's fight a war, spend a 
lot of money doing it--two-thirds of a trillion at this point but 
heading north--and none of it paid for; all of it borrowed. This from a 
conservative President. This Congress has to stop saying yes to that. 
This reckless fiscal policy has helped set the stage and table for part 
of what we have seen the last couple of weeks, the jitters and concerns 
about where this country is headed and the economic difficulty we are 
now in.

Let me talk about something my colleague from New Hampshire talked 
about, and that is the underlying issue of the so-called subprime loan 
scandal. That is a fascinating thing. Someday somebody will do a book 
about that and just about that issue. Here is what happened, and we 
know better. Everybody knows better.

You wake up in the morning and go to brush your teeth and perhaps you 
have a television set on. You are sort of getting ready for work and 
you see a television ad. We see them every morning, and the ads say: Do 
you have bad credit? Do you have trouble getting a loan? Have you been 
missing payments on your home loan? Have you filed for bankruptcy? It 
doesn't matter. Come to us; we will give you a loan.

We have all seen these ads, and you think to yourself: Well, how can 
they do that? How can they advertise that if you have bad credit you 
can borrow money from them? The fact is, you can't do that. But that is 
what we were doing all across this country. Here is what was happening. 
Mortgage brokers were making a fortune in big fees by selling subprime 
mortgages. The companies that were writing these mortgages, the largest 
of which was Countrywide Financial, were saying to people: You know 
what, take our low-interest mortgage, with a teaser rate at 2 percent. 
It won't reset for 3 years. By the way, if you have an existing home 
loan, so you can get rid of that and we will lend you money you can pay 
back at a 2-percent interest rate, and it will not reset for 3 years, 
during which time the market is going to go up and you can flip it and 
sell it. In any event, what we will do is decide that on your home loan 
you don't have to make any principal payments at this point, just 
interest. We will add the principal later on.

Or they will say, borrow this money from us, and we will make the 
first 12 months' payments. For the first year, you make no payments at 
all.

OK, that practice was totally, completely and thoroughly 
irresponsible by a bunch of greedy folks. They are talking to people, 
cold-calling them and saying, we would like to put you in a better 
mortgage but not telling them, of course, there is a prepayment 
penalty. They are telling you monthly mortgage payments that didn't 
include real estate taxes, insurance costs, and so forth. So they were 
quoting borrowers 2 percent teaser rates with prepayment penalties that 
didn't include the escrow. So they put these people in these loans.

Now, were the victims partly at fault? Sure. By victims, I am talking 
about those who took these loans out. But these were high-powered 
salespeople working for big companies that were putting bad products in 
the hands of a lot of unsuspecting people.

Then what do they do? They have these subprime loans packaged up with 
other loans. It is sort of like the old days when they used to put 
sawdust in sausage in the meat plants and mix it all up as filler. Then 
they would cut it up and you would never know where the filler was and 
where the sausage was. Well, similar to that, they would take the good 
loans and the subprime loans and they would mix them all together and 
put them in securities--securitize them. Then they would sell the 
securities to these hedge funds, among others. So hedge funds were 
buying securities. They didn't have the foggiest idea what they were 
buying because the rating agency said it looked okay. These agencies 
were dead from the neck up.

Everybody was greedy, and now the whole tent comes collapsing down. 
Now, you say, how could that be? Well, it was because people were 
loaning money to people who were never going to be able to repay it. 
The CEO of Countrywide, the largest company doing this, made hundreds 
of millions of dollars selling the stock back. It looks like 
Countrywide is going to go belly up, so Bank of America comes in and 
buys Countrywide. No idea why, but the big guys, they all waltz off 
smiling ear to ear, sparkling teeth and big smiles. Why? Because they 
made a lot of money--hundreds of millions of dollars. Meanwhile, all 
these folks can't repay their mortgages and are left to try to pick up 
the pieces and then we wonder what on Earth happened here.

In the midst of all this, this morning I was listening to a TV show 
with a man named Jim Cramer, who talks about stock prices. He has a TV 
show. Half the time he is yelling. I don't have the foggiest idea why 
he thinks that is the approach to use to thoughtfully talk about stock 
prices, but apparently it is successful. So he says this morning that 
one of the ways we should deal with the problem in the economy is to 
start trying to provide some recompense or some money to the insurers 
of bonds and other things that are going to get hit--derivatives, he 
said. And I thought, I understand that language. He is talking about 
credit default swaps.


That sounds like a flatout foreign language, but it can't be because 
I don't speak a foreign language. Credit default swaps. So what Jim 
Cramer was talking about on the television this morning is that in 
order to bail out this country, his approach is we ought to provide 
about 50 percent of taxpayer money to the losses for those who have 
credit default swaps. Let me talk a moment about what this means 
because, as I said, it sounds completely foreign.

Hedge funds in this country are largely unregulated. I, Senator 
Feinstein, and many others have tried for a long time to say that is 
dangerous for this country. Hedge funds are somewhere around $1 to $1.5 
trillion. Now, that is not so much, considering mutual funds are about 
$9 trillion. The total of the stocks and bonds in the stock market and 
bond funds are about $40 billion. So hedge funds are about $1 to $1.5 
trillion. But hedge funds represent one-half of all the trades on the 
stock market. Think of that--$1 trillion plus unregulated--and they 
comprise half the trades on the stock market.

Now, because of the very heavy use of the leverage, it is a fact that 
hedge funds can lose much more than they are worth. If somebody goes 
into a casino in Las Vegas with a pocketful of money and grinning, 
thinking they are going to win a lot of money but end up losing it all, 
in most cases the only thing they lose is the money they have. That is 
not the case with heavily leveraged hedge funds.

That is why the episode with Long-Term Capital Management, a hedge 
fund that had the smartest people working for them, was so important 
that over a decade ago the Federal Reserve Board had to try to save 
Long-Term Capital Management. That hedge fund was unbelievably 
leveraged, over $1 trillion. Its collapse would have affected the 
entire American economy.

So here is what we have. We have this language now called credit 
default


swaps. The credit default swap is a derivative, and it is an insurance 
policy on a bond or some other instrument. The person who sells the 
swap is actually writing a policy that collects a premium, and it says 
if nothing goes wrong with the underlying instrument, the person who 
sold the swap gets the premium and looks like a genius. If, however, 
the bond or the underlying instrument collapses, then the swap seller 
has to make good. The notional amount--understand this--the notional 
amount, the aggregate of bonds, loans, and other debt called by credit 
default swaps in the United States, is now $26 trillion.

I have spoken before on the floor of the Senate about creating a 
house of cards, every child has done it, and then pulled out a card on 
the bottom. Everyone understands what happens to the house of cards. We 
now have roughly $1-$1.5 trillion in hedge funds, as I understand it, 
doing one-half of the stock trades on the stock exchanges. In most 
cases, hedge funds have a notional value of $26 trillion in credit 
default swaps, and the question is: Where is all this exposure? How 
much exposure? We don't know. Most hedge funds are unregulated, and a 
whole lot of folks in this Chamber have wanted to keep it that way, 
despite the efforts of some of us who believe it is dangerous to our 
economy to pretend this kind of risk does not exist.

It is interesting to me that we are in this situation and troubling 
to me we are in a situation that all of us knew was going to be 
difficult. You can't run a $2-billion-a-day trade deficit without 
consequence. Warren Buffett always pointed out with the housing bubble 
that every bubble bursts. It is one of the immutable laws. The question 
isn't whether, it is when. He makes the same point about the trade 
deficit. The trade deficit is unsustainable. The question isn't whether 
we will see consequences, the question is when will those consequences 
exist.

The consequences are beginning to exist now, with the declining value 
of the dollar and the combination of all the other issues--the highest 
deficits in human history, the trade deficit, a fiscal policy that is 
completely and thoroughly reckless, combined with the scandal that 
exists with respect to subprime loans and the massive amount of 
unregulated hedge fund credit swap defaults. I mean it is staggering to 
see what we have done. Again, the credit default swap is a notional 
derivative whose value is dramatic and the consequences of which could 
be dramatic for the entire economy.

Most regulators were looking the other way and doing so deliberately. 
If ever one wonders whether thoughtful and effective regulation is 
necessary, look at all this. If anyone has ever wondered whether you 
can get by with a trade deficit of $2 billion a day, look at where we 
find ourselves now. If anyone ever wonders if you can spend money you 
don't have on things you don't need, look at this country's fiscal 
policy and its consequences for the country.

Having said that, all of us want the same thing for this country's 
future. We want a country that grows and provides economic opportunity. 
We want a country where the fundamentals are fair and put in order. 
That means a trade deficit that is eliminated, or at least close to 
eliminated, and a trade policy that works for this country's interest. 
It means a fiscal policy that pays our bills, and it means effective 
regulation in areas where you have substantial potential risk for the 
entire economy, and that means regulation of certain hedge funds' 
transactions and derivatives now well outside the view of public 
regulators.

So I think this is going to be a very difficult time for this 
country. It is one thing for us to take a shower in the morning, put on 
a suit and drive to work and talk about it, it is another thing for the 
people who go home tonight and say: Sweetheart, I have lost my job, not 
because I didn't do a good job, but they are laying people off where I 
work. That is a consequence for that family in which unemployment is 
100 percent.

We face some pretty daunting challenges. My hope with this President 
and with Republicans and Democrats working together, as the Speaker of 
the House and the majority leader of the Senate said last week, with 
all of us working together, combined with the Federal Reserve's 
monetary policy, that we can develop some thoughtful approaches in 
fiscal policy that might lead us in a constructive direction to say to 
the American people we believe you can honestly look at the future and 
have a positive view. But they won't believe that if they feel we are 
not serious about the fundamentals. The American people aren't going to 
be fooled. If we don't fix our trade policies and get rid of these 
unbelievable deficits, if we don't put our fiscal house in order and 
stop doing what the administration suggests we do, we are in big 
trouble.

We had a Treasury Secretary named Paul O'Neill--the first Treasury 
Secretary under this President. If ever there was a straight shooter in 
Government, it was Paul O'Neill. He came here as an executive from an 
aluminum company. He was blunt-spoken, an interesting guy, and I 
happened to like him a lot. Paul O'Neill got fired. In fact, Dick 
Cheney is the one who fired him, at the request of the President. When 
fired, he was told that deficits don't matter. Deficits don't matter.

Well, we now understand they do matter and we have to do something 
about it. This fiscal policy is out of control. Our trade policy is 
broken and we have had regulators who looked the other way while we had 
grand theft in this area of the subprime scandal, and it is time we 
tell the American people we are serious about addressing these issues 
and we are going to do it now.

I yield the floor and I suggest the absence of a quorum.