# None
## `21b976d98801371d3bdc0670fe24914d`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 4 March 2010`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I appreciate the remarks of the junior


Senator from Massachusetts. He has come off the campaign trail, where 
he talked to thousands and thousands of people all over his State and 
heard from, I would guess, millions from around the country. We should 
listen to some of the things he is telling us because it strikes me 
that we, too often in this body, are a bit insulated, and we fail to 
see that people are asking us to make some changes in what we do when 
we think we have to continue to operate the way we have been operating.

But that is not what I am hearing at my townhall meetings. I don't 
know that anybody in this body, if they are listening in their townhall 
meetings, are hearing business as usual is what the people want us to 
do. What I am hearing is a great concern and expression of regret, and 
in some cases frustration and anger, over the amount of money we are 
spending and how recklessly we are doing it. I guess that is what I am 
here to talk about.

The bill Senator Claire McCaskill and I are offering is a bipartisan 
bill. It had quite a bit of Democratic support last time. We came 
within just a few votes of reaching 60 votes and passing it, and I am 
hopeful today, with the alterations we have made, it will appeal to 
some of my Democratic colleagues and they will be able to support it 
now. I believe it will take quite a positive step in how we fund our 
government and how much debt we run up.

In the 1990s, an idea was placed into law that said the budgets we 
pass should have statutory language and should be made a part of 
statutory law. So we did that in the 1990s. We began to see, shortly 
after the passage of that, a containment of the surge and growth in 
spending. The growth was far more modest and, as a result, by the end 
of the 1990s we had a surplus.

President Clinton claimed great credit for that. I think sometimes he 
fails to recall the Congress acted, and ultimately it is Congress that 
has the power of the purse. No money can be spent that we don't 
authorize and appropriate. Nothing can be spent by the President or any 
other Cabinet person that Congress hasn't authorized and appropriated 
to be spent. Those are the facts.

This legislation would put what we call caps or limits on 
discretionary spending. That does not include entitlement spending, so 
not counting Social Security and Medicare and those kind of things. It 
is the discretionary accounts we have in the Senate. This amendment 
would put some limits on them--the limits we chose for the fiscal year 
2011 through fiscal year 2014. This is the 2010 budget resolution we 
are now under, which was passed by our Democratic majority and 
supported by the President of the United States. It is his projections 
and our projections--the Congress's projections--for spending growth in 
the next 4 years. The budget resolution we passed allows for a 2-
percent increase per year in both defense and nondefense spending. The 
caps in the amendment are exactly those we voted for in last year's 
budget.

Currently, we are not standing firm with the budgets we pass. We know 
that is a problem for us and we need to discipline ourselves. We have 
learned that from 1991 through 2002, the statutory caps on spending 
helped us contain spending. We did not surge discretionary spending as 
much as had been the case earlier. When it ended in 2002, the spending 
started back up again. Not only did it start up, it has now reached a 
level of growth the likes of which the country has never seen before. 
Last year, our total deficit for the year was $1,400 billion. This year 
it is going to be $1,400 billion or $1,500 billion when we end. We have 
never had anything like this before. How much we are spending and how 
little we are paying for what we spend is a stunning development.

This legislation would not impact the bills that have already passed. 
Some say: Well, you might try to contain the stimulus bill we passed. 
No, that has already passed and wouldn't be covered. None of the other 
bills that have passed would be covered. Indeed, as part of our 
discussion with our colleagues in the Senate about their concerns with 
the legislation the last time we voted on it--a few weeks ago--we 
exempted this year, and we are spending pretty substantially this 
year--well above our budget. So we had people say: Well, Jeff, I am 
concerned about this year. I want to spend more this year. But next 
year we have to get this house in order. Well, we are well into this 
year already, so my decision would be: OK, that is a request I will 
accept, and Senator McCaskill agreed. So now we are asking that this 
limit be placed beginning next fiscal year, instead of this fiscal 
year.

It is very similar to the plan proposed by President Obama in his 
State of the Union Message and his fiscal year 2011 budget. In fact, 
President Obama actually went further in saying he wanted to see a 
freeze on a lot of these accounts. Our bill would allow a 1-percent to 
2-percent increase in spending in these accounts. He is saying a freeze 
would be better. So, Jeff, are you saying you want to spend more than 
the President? No. I think we should try, and I would be supportive of 
trying to maintain the freeze the President suggested. But I would say, 
based on our history and what we have seen from statutory caps, if we 
pass caps with this 1- to 2-percent increase, then we might be able to 
at least stay within that because last year our increases were 8 
percent or more in spending. We all know we have to do better, and our 
budget says we will do better. So this amendment would give some 
strength to that.

The legislation specifies spending for defense and nondefense 
programs consistent with the budget resolution. It contains a $10 
billion-per-year emergency fund, which fits in with the budget 
resolution. We have set aside $10 billion this year, and we should do 
at least that amount each year to ensure we have resources available if 
a genuine emergency arises and we need to respond to an emergency. So 
we would set that aside. This amendment requires a two-thirds vote of 
67 Senators to waive the annual caps or the emergency $10 billion fund. 
That is stronger than we have had before. We have had a 60-vote cap. 
But we know we are spending at a very reckless rate. Contrary to what 
people say, we have had bipartisan support for all kinds of emergency 
spending, and there is usually 90 or 100 votes for hurricanes, 
earthquakes or similar things. At any rate, we think the 67 votes would 
say to this Senate that we are serious and there should be a legitimate 
reason that can be defended to waive the budget to spend more money. 
Also, it would say why don't we find money elsewhere within our budget, 
through efficiencies and other ideas, to contain that growth in 
spending and pay for some of it first before we send it to the credit 
card and add it to the debt?


This amendment does not apply the caps to spending for any military 
action. I know Senator Inouye and others have raised the question will 
it deny soldiers in the field support. The caps would not apply to any 
military action in which the Congress has provided a declaration of war 
or authorization to utilize military force. That is, I think, the 
appropriate way to handle it. This amendment would be exempting those 
kinds of situations.

This is similar to what the President has called for and what 
Congress did throughout the 1990s with bipartisan support. This 
amendment has been evaluated by some of the best budget minds in 
America, independent groups that are respected. These experts 
understand the nature and problems of our Congress and how we tend to 
break our budgets instead of staying within them. They are terribly 
concerned about our spending; they are issuing reports, and many of 
them have endorsed us.

One of the best known groups is the Concord Coalition. They endorse 
the amendment. The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget that 
includes former OMB, Office of Management and Budget, officials and 
Congressional Budget Office officials. They work together for 
responsible Federal budgets, and they support it. Citizens Against 
Government Waste; the National Taxpayers Union; the Heritage 
Foundation; Alice Rivlin, who was the first head of the Congressional 
Budget Office and was the head of the Office of Management and Budget 
under President Clinton and is now a Brookings Institute senior 
fellow--she supports it. As does Douglas Holtz-Eakin, former Director 
of the CBO under President Bush, who has spoken out on these issues.

This amendment is supported by a majority of the members of the 
Senate


Budget Committee the last time it was considered, and it gives the 
Budget Committee more ability to make sure their budget is not abridged 
and broken.

What about some questions and answers? Will this bill prevent the 
Federal Government from responding to legitimate purchases? The answer 
is no, it will not. We have $10 billion set aside anyway; it is set 
aside right upfront. The amount is included in our budget resolution 
from last year and that money can be utilized for any emergency.

Second, the emergency appropriations, for example after the 9/11 
attack; the 2004 tsunami; Hurricane Katrina--all passed with 
overwhelming support in the Senate, 93-votes-plus each and every time. 
So this is far above the 67 votes. Not a single emergency natural 
disaster bill since the emergency designation was created in 1990--and 
there have been quite a few--has gotten less than 67 votes. To say it 
will deny us the right to respond to a legitimate emergency is 
incorrect.

Question: Would the Sessions-McCaskill bill prevent Congress from 
funding the missions in Iraq and Afghanistan? As I said, this threshold 
of 67 votes would not apply in cases ''of the defense budget authority 
if Congress declared war or authorizes the use of force.''

In addition, all emergency war supplementals for the global war on 
terrorism have received far more than 67 votes anyway.

Question: Would the Sessions-McCaskill bill prevent Congress from 
caring for veterans? That has been raised a good bit. The fiscal year 
2010 budget resolution incorporates significant increases in funding 
for veterans, an 11-percent increase in fiscal year 2010, which built 
on large increases in fiscal years 2008 and 2009. In addition, a 
significant amount of veterans spending is mandatory. Entitlements and 
mandatory spending would not even be covered by this, just as Social 
Security and Medicare is not covered by it. Veterans programs have 
always enjoyed wide support in the Senate and I don't think there is 
any doubt that legitimate concerns for veterans would be properly 
addressed. It should be paid for whenever possible but, if we cannot do 
that, if we have a crisis for our veterans, I have no doubt there will 
be 67 votes to take care of the veterans' needs. In fact, the emergency 
supplemental for veterans' health care that came up in 2005 received 99 
votes. Veterans funding, I think most of our Members believe, ought to 
displace less priority items.

There is a myth out there that the sponsors are saying this will 
balance the budget by focusing on nondefense discretionary spending and 
this is a small part of the budget. It is not the biggest part of the 
budget. And it is not going to balance the budget in itself. But the 
facts are this. First, the amendment caps growth in both defense and 
nondefense discretionary spending. Second, the sponsors have never 
claimed the amendment would balance the budget. We have to do a lot 
more than this. The President himself estimates that his 3-year freeze 
he proposed--spending not related to defense or veterans or foreign 
affairs--would result in a $250 billion savings over 10 years and that 
is real money.

This legislation has the potential to save hundreds of billions of 
dollars. If the choice is between 8 and 10-percent increases, as we 
have had in the last couple of years, and the 2-percent or so increase 
that would be allowed under this budget, it would save a lot more than 
$250 billion over a period of time.

I want to say how much I appreciate the support and leadership by 
Senator McCaskill on this matter. When we voted before, all Republicans 
but 1 and 17 Democrats voted for the legislation. I expect there is at 
least one more vote with our new Senator from Massachusetts. We have 
changed it to apply to next year and not this year. That should attract 
more support. I am hopeful that we could pass this. I think it would 
send a message to our colleagues and to those who appropriate the money 
here, that we are serious about staying within the budget limits. We 
are saying to the President, not only do we support you but we are 
going to create a mechanism where it is going to be harder to spend 
more than you proposed. We will send a message to the financial 
markets, which are wondering what we are doing here.

If you read the financial pages, people make statements on Wall 
Street that indicate they have no confidence we are going to reverse 
the trend we are on. In fact, the trend is so stunning it puts us on 
the road to tripling the national debt in 10 years--from 2008 with $5.8 
billion in public debt held by people all over the world, including 
governments such as China, to 2013 with $11 trillion, to 2019 with $17 
trillion--doubling in 5 years, tripling in 10 years.

I think we can do better. There is a lot of blame to go around and 
all of us deserve some of it. But we are in a position where I think we 
can make a difference today. This legislation, I believe, is a good 
step and would send a message throughout the world, to the financial 
markets, that Congress is beginning to take firm steps that would 
contain the growth of spending.

I am pleased to see my colleague from Missouri here. She has been a 
champion on this and integrity in spending in all areas. She challenges 
waste, fraud, and abuse. She understands more than most in our body 
that the money we have extracted from the American taxpayer should be 
spent very carefully in order to guarantee we get a quality benefit 
from it.

I yield the floor.