---
---

# TAX COLLECTION RESPONSIBILITY ACT OF 2007
## `21c51b56ec7f792360201d3586f1d86d`
`Mr. BOYD of Florida — 12 October 2007`

---


Mr. BOYD of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss H.R. 3056, 
the Tax Collection Responsibility Act of 2007. I find myself in the 
awkward position of opposing the distinguished Chairman of the 
Committee on Ways and Means, but we are being asked to eliminate the 
Internal Revenue Service, IRS, program to collect past-due income taxes 
without an alternative. This program involves the collection of 
millions of tax dollars, and there are no plans in place to collect 
this money if the program were to be killed. There are no plans to 
collect the millions of dollars needed to close the tax gap. 
Additionally, there is also no alternative to finding employment for 
the countless disabled veterans and severely disabled Americans.

Before we eliminate this program, there should be an alternative in 
place. Our colleague in the other body, Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska, 
has introduced an initiative that would take the IRS program and use it 
to create meaningful employment for persons with disabilities and 
disabled veterans. The Disability Preference Program for Tax Collection 
Contracts would give an incentive to private third-party collection 
companies to hire people with severe disabilities and provide them with 
quality jobs.

Mr. Speaker, one in ten Americans has a disability. While the current 
unemployment rate in the Nation stood at 4.7 percent in September, the 
low employment rate of persons with disabilities continues to hover at 
70-80 percent. The high number of returning disabled American veterans 
from Iraq and Afghanistan will only serve to compound this problem.

Currently, there are not enough jobs to provide gainful employment 
for the severely disabled veterans with only a high school GED. The 
Disability Preference Program would serve to alleviate the lack of 
meaningful employment opportunities for these young men and women. Jobs 
with third-party debt collection agencies can translate to high-paying 
careers. These jobs pay anywhere from $25,000 to $150,000 including 
health and 401(k) benefits.

Under the provisions of the Disability Preference Program, an initial 
hire of 750 persons with disabilities would save the Federal Government 
close to $350 million over ten years in Supplemental Security Income, 
SSI, and Disability Insurance, DI, benefits alone. This figure does not 
include the additional benefits associated with the hiring of people in 
the $40,000 salary range. This landmark program would not only create 
well-paying jobs for our severely disabled Americans, it would save the 
Federal Government millions of dollars at no cost.



This legislation is necessary because the IRS stated that ''under 
existing GSA Federal Supply Schedule, FSS, contracting procedures, it 
cannot set a specific number of awards aside for contractors employing 
significant numbers of persons with disabilities,'' only for the one 
disabled employer who may never hire another disabled person.

This is an oversight in our law which needs to be corrected. It makes 
no sense that current law provides an employment opportunity for ONE 
disabled person, while this initiative would create opportunities for 
hundreds--if not thousands--of people who are disabled and without a 
college education.

Mr. Speaker, as I mentioned previously, there is particular concern 
over the group of young, disabled veterans who have few employment 
options. Most able-bodied soldiers without formal education, upon 
leaving service, take positions as bus drivers, cafeteria workers, 
janitorial services, or security personnel. If the Disability 
Preference Program is not enacted soon, a viable opportunity will be 
lost.

This initiative is supported by the Disabled American Veterans, the 
American Legion, the American Legion Auxiliary, the American 
Association of People With Disabilities, the One Percent Coalition, and 
the National Rehabilitation Association. In addition, the language has 
been passed by the other body on numerous occasions.

I ask my colleagues in the House to join with me in supporting the 
Disability Preference Program for Tax Collection Contracts. I ask them 
to join me in providing meaningful employment opportunities for persons 
with disabilities and for our returning soldiers who have been disabled 
in the line of duty.
