---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `21d2dc46ee1347fd3c32f34cbe5de0f3`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida — 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Madam President, this Children's Health 
Insurance Program is universally acknowledged as having reduced the 
number of uninsured children in America. As the Senator from Maine has 
just said, we can be very proud we have seen a landmark compromise 
between Republicans and Democrats. With the talks going on between the 
House and the Senate, this compromise legislation is going to allow us 
to continue coverage for millions of low-income children and to expand 
the coverage to millions more.

It is so popular because if we can attack poor health at a child's 
age, ultimately, not only is it going to benefit the quality of life of 
that individual, but it is going to be less of a cost to society in the 
long run, if you can get at their root problems of health while they 
are young. This is a simple economic fact, preventive health care.

In my previous life as the elected State treasurer and insurance 
commissioner in Florida, I chaired the board of directors of the 
Healthy Kids Corporation. It was Florida's pioneering effort to insure 
low-income children well before this Children's Health Insurance 
Program started at the Federal level. We did it through the schools. We 
had tremendous success. It works.

So there is a collective sigh of disappointment that the President is 
going to refuse to accept this compromise, which is what reflects the 
general will, as expressed by that tremendous vote we just had a few 
minutes ago, allowing the bill to continue to go forward in this 
legislative process. The President's looming veto threat calls into 
sharp relief all of those who stand to lose in the absence of fully 
reauthorizing and expanding this CHIP program.

Think back 10 years ago and what has happened since. The number of 
uninsured adults has increased, while the rate of low-income, uninsured 
children has decreased, and decreased not by a little but by a third 
largely due to this program we are going to pass today.

These children have been afforded better access to primary and 
preventive care and a better quality of care. This reauthorization is 
going to provide $35 billion of additional funding over the next 5 
years.

Now, of course, that is a bone of contention for some people. If you 
are going out and finding $35 billion extra to fund something--at a 
time there is not that money out there, particularly when we are going 
to have a supplemental request for Iraq of some $200 billion--under 
that circumstance, that context, where are you going to get 35 billion 
new dollars over 5 years to fund a program such as this? The tobacco 
tax.

There are those who do not want to tax tobacco. But where else would 
you


like to get it? You cannot make it up. You cannot go and print the 
money. You have to get it from some legitimate place. This is the place 
that can withstand that additional tax. So there will be some who will 
vote against this program because they do not want to tax tobacco. 
Well, let their record be clear why they oppose this popular program.

The added investment in children's health is not only necessary, it 
is fruitful. It is common sense. Healthy children are more likely to 
stay healthy as they move into adulthood. Certainly, if they are 
healthy, they are going to have more productive lives. On top of all 
this, don't we have a moral imperative to ensure that children, 
regardless of their parents' income, are able to have a healthy life?

I think that is what makes up our moral fiber, our fabric, all of our 
teachings, our traditions. Our values say we want to have health care 
for children regardless of their parents' ability to pay.

The President has argued that this expansion is going to take the 
CHIP program beyond its original intent of just helping poor children. 
Some people say it is going to be helping adults. Do I think that 
pregnant women--pregnant adult women--ought to be helped? I would think 
common sense would say yes.

I believe this program would deepen and expand that initial promise 
which is helping those American families that struggle with those 
health care costs that are rising much faster than their wages.

Can you imagine being a parent and watching your child have a health 
problem and you cannot do anything about it because you do not have the 
financial means to take away the pain of that health problem of your 
own child? Parents would get out and scrap and scrape, they would dig 
ditches, they would clean latrines, they would do anything for their 
child. But, sadly, because of the low income of some families, those 
children do not have that health care. Well, we can address that and 
correct that today.

The President has also said this expansion is going to bring us down 
a path toward the federalization of health care. Well, that is simply 
not so. There is wide latitude in this law to give that latitude to the 
States. I believe, simply, children are too precious to be held hostage 
to an ideological debate. This program is more important than the 
rhetoric about government-run health care.

By virtue of me telling you my background, obviously, this bill is 
very important for my State of Florida, where over 700,000 children 
alone are uninsured. This legislation is the best opportunity to expand 
that coverage to a significant portion of those 700,000 children and 
certainly across the land to millions of children.

We have seen the success. We are aware of how many more children need 
to participate. I humbly urge the President to reconsider his veto 
threat. It is rare we have a chance to pass legislation that is so 
overwhelmingly positive, so completely necessary, and so morally 
unquestionable.

I am certainly going to cast my vote in favor. I hope a resounding 
percentage of this Senate will do likewise so we can send a very strong 
message of support.

I yield the floor.