# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `21e6ba0bf0e88125c181e3fae34e2780`
`Mr. GILLMOR — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. GILLMOR. I thank the gentleman from Texas, who is a real American 
hero, for yielding me the time.



Mr. Speaker, the resolution we are considering does not do a single 
thing to help our troops or to achieve the goals of America, our allies 
or the Iraqi people.

Congress is spending an entire week on a nonbinding resolution that, 
even if it passes, will not change the course of action in Iraq. Our 
time could have been spent much better debating real issues, such as 
how to most effectively win the war that terrorists are waging on us.

Now, personally, I am skeptical that an increase of 20,000 troops 
will make the difference and that it will stabilize Baghdad and Iraq. 
But, for me, the question is, to whom should we listen regarding 
operational decisions in Iraq? Should we listen to the recommendations 
of the U.S. military or to the politicians in Washington?

And as an Air Force veteran, I think we should accept the 
recommendations of our military. And in that respect, 2 weeks ago the 
General in command of ground forces in Baghdad said, and I quote, ''By 
bringing more troops in, it provides us the opportunity to work with 
them, to provide more time to defeat this threat, which is both an al 
Qaeda threat as well as sectarian violence.''

I have visited in Germany in the medical facilities with our wounded 
troops from Iraq. A member of my family served a year in a combat zone 
in Baghdad, and I am incredibly proud of our men and women in the 
military. They are talented. They are dedicated. They are professional 
and they are the best in the world. And we owe them a tremendous debt 
of gratitude.

Now, even though it is nonbinding, there is, I think, a large 
omission in this resolution. While it does compliment the actions of 
our military men and women, nowhere does it commit to continue 
providing funding for troops in the field. And at a time when some in 
this town are talking about cutting off funding for our troops, I think 
we should commit to providing full funding for our Armed Forces as long 
as they are in the field.

Now, there is no guarantee that this troop buildup will be 
successful, or that the Iraqis will succeed in finally taking over the 
security situation in a responsible way. But what we do know is, at 
this point there is not a better plan proposed which has a chance of 
victory. And we also know that failure in Iraq threatens the security 
of the United States, the security of the Middle East, and, in fact, 
the whole world.

Early last year I had the privilege of leading a delegation to Asia, 
where we met with the Prime Ministers of India, of Thailand and 
Singapore. And those are all countries that are now and have been under 
terrorist attack. All of them agreed with the need to cooperate for 
security purposes, and with the importance of winning the war against 
terrorism in Iraq because of the consequences of not winning would have 
on the rest of the world.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution has two purposes. First, it rejects the 
only plan which has been suggested by military leaders with a chance of 
success in Iraq. Second, it begins this Congress down a path which ends 
with cutting off funding for our troops and abandoning our foreign 
policy because of failed congressional fortitude. I am opposed to the 
resolution and opposed to our micromanaging of the war on terror.