---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `22120f7cd0091b0e5eb635cfea00d836`
`Mr. ROCKEFELLER — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. ROCKEFELLER. Mr. President, I rise today to support the fiscal 
year 2008 budget resolution and our Budget chairman, Senator Conrad, 
who has done an extraordinary job in developing such a thoughtful 
resolution.

This budget resolution helps to get our country back on the right 
fiscal track, and it highlights many priorities for American families 
that were neglected or ignored over the last few years. For example, 
this resolution increases discretionary education funding by about $9 
billion so that we can invest in title 1, IDEA and improving Pell 
grants and student aid.

Another important change is the investment in our veterans by 
providing $3.5 billion more for the VA. This resolution approximately 
matches the funding request of the veteran's organizations, known as 
the independent budget. It is a travesty that VA has been underfunded 
in the past as veterans are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. In 
West Virginia, I host confidential roundtables to listen in private to 
our returning veterans. I want to hear from them personally about their 
experience in combat, and their care and treatment after they come 
home. I am deeply disturbed by stories of hassles to get medical 
appointment and lengthy delays in processing claims for benefits. Every 
veteran who has bravely served our Nation deserves timely and quality 
care and benefits. Because of the violence and intense combat, many of 
our returning veterans want and need mental health care. We have a 
moral obligation to care for our veterans, both those coming home today 
and the aging veterans of WWII, Korea and Vietnam. This budget 
resolution is a meaningful downpayment to fulfill our obligations. It 
will let us investment in mental health care, and begin to improve our 
VA benefits system so that wounded soldiers do not have to wait 
ridiculous amounts of time to get their benefit claims resolved.

One part of this resolution that is deeply important to me is the 
investment of $50 billion for reauthorization of the Children's Health 
Insurance Program, CHIP. In 1997, I fought hard to create this program, 
and I am enormously proud of the success of CHIP in providing insurance 
coverage to children. In my own State of West Virginia, there are 
nearly 40,000 children covered through CHIP each year. This budget 
resolution will allow us to move CHIP forward in two important ways: 
first, to maintain coverage for children currently enrolled in the 
program today and, second, to expand coverage to children who are 
eligible but not yet enrolled in the program. This provision is a 
strong signal of the new priorities of the leadership in the 110th 
Congress. I would like to particularly thank Senator Conrad and his 
staff for the commitment this resolution makes to CHIP. I know this 
budget wasn't easy. I know that there are many competing priorities for 
limited Federal resources and an ever escalating demand. But, I am so 
proud that Democrats are taking a stand for children and making CHIP 
reauthorization the top health care priority this year.

This budget resolution is responsible. It restores pay-as-you-go 
rules. But it also includes deficit-neutral reserve funds so that 
Congress can move forward on important areas like reauthorization of 
the Higher Education Act, competitiveness and other domestic priorities 
that have been ignored for too long. I have been proud to support this 
budget resolution throughout a long day of votes, and I want to thank 
and commend our chairman, Senator Conrad, for a job well done.