---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `2232a8eab4c8ad31cf6027ca34746ef7`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I had the humbling privilege of 
representing Fort Hood, America's largest Army installation, for 14 
years, through three combat deployments. It is now next door to my 
district in central Texas.

Fort Hood has sent more troops to Iraq and Afghanistan than any other 
military installation in America. And despite that sacrifice, sadly, 
the soldiers and families at Fort Hood had to face an unbearable and 
unspeakable tragedy at the hands of a terrorist in our midst who killed 
12 Fort Hood Army soldiers and one Army civilian just several months 
ago.

The soldier processing center through which soldiers go--often the 
last building they see before they leave Fort Hood, and it's the first 
building they see when they come home from being a year away from their 
family serving in Iraq or Afghanistan--is a soldier development 
servicing center there.

At the request of the Pentagon, I want to thank Chairman Obey for 
putting our request for $16.5 million into this amendment. First, 
because that center was old and antiquated, inefficient and too small, 
but most importantly because the soldiers at Fort Hood who've 
sacrificed so much for our Nation's defense in Iraq and Afghanistan 
should not be asked to process through a building where 12 of their 
fellow soldier comrades in that installation were brutally murdered at 
the hands of a domestic terrorist.

I thank Chairman Obey for putting this in. It is a meaningful, 
dignified way to show support for our troops. And I support this 
amendment and ask my colleagues on a bipartisan basis to support it as 
well.