---
---

# IN TRIBUTE TO STAFF SGT. JESSE WILLIAMS OF SANTA ROSA, CALIFORNIA WHO  WAS KILLED IN IRAQ
## `223552009185824479cda469a519089a`
`Mr. THOMPSON of California — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam Speaker, I rise today with a heavy 
heart to observe the death of Staff Sergeant Jesse Williams of Santa 
Rosa, California. Jesse was a fine man and a fine soldier, and he 
leaves behind a loving family bowed but not broken by the loss of a 
father, husband, and son.

Sgt. Williams was serving his second tour with the 5th Battalion, 
20th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division at the time 
of his death during combat operations in Baqubah, in eastern Iraq.

Before and during his tours in Iraq, Sgt. Williams had served in the 
army with distinction, earning numerous accolades and awards. During 
his first tour in Iraq from 2003-2004 he earned a Purple Heart after 
being injured in an explosive attack. Then, just three weeks before his 
death, Sgt. Williams proved his uncommon character and valor when he 
jumped in to rescue two fellow soldiers who were trapped in a flaming 
vehicle ignited by an insurgent attack. For his heroism he is currently 
being considered for a Bronze Star.

Sgt. Williams was known to friends and family for his sense of humor 
and love of life. As a younger man, he found discipline and his calling 
when he joined the Boy Scouts. In less than 2 years he had completed 
all the requirements to become an Eagle Scout, indicating the highest 
level of achievement. During a leave from the Army, he returned to 
Santa Rosa and spoke to the City Council in favor of establishing a 
memorial for Sonoma County's Iraq veterans. At the time, he made a 
strong impression with his words; now his name will be one of those 
featured on the memorial.

Sgt. Williams leaves behind his wife Sonya, and an 11-month old 
daughter Amaya. Amaya was 5 weeks old when Sgt. Williams was deployed 
to Iraq for his second tour of duty. His father, Herb Williams, resides 
in Santa Rosa as well.

On Monday the community of Santa Rosa paused to acknowledge their 
fallen soldier as hundreds of policemen, firefighters and members of 
the community took to bridges and overpasses with signs and flags while 
his casket was brought back into the city. Yesterday, almost one 
thousand people gathered for a memorial service paying tribute to his 
life.

Madam Speaker, at this time I ask that my colleagues join me in 
rising to pay tribute to Staff Sergeant Jesse Williams, who gave his 
life for his country. I know that his family is immensely proud of his 
service, and we are all in his debt.
