# IRAQ
## `223e5510dc223ed41b7de1443339731f`
`Mr. DeMINT — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. DeMINT. I thank the Senator from Texas, and I would like to add 
my comments to his. We are certainly discussing probably one of the 
most deadly serious issues that I have been a part of since being in 
the Congress. I must start by expressing my respect for the Senators 
who are proposing this resolution. I know their intent is good. They 
have heartfelt concerns about what we are doing.

But what I would like to do is remind all of us that our role is a 
role of being leaders, not just being critics. As elected officials, we 
know what it is like to have critics second-guess all the decisions we 
make, but our job as Senators is to be leaders; and to be leaders, we 
have to make good decisions. If we make good decisions, we have to know 
what our real choices are. I am afraid those who are proposing this 
resolution are not considering the real choices because we can keep the 
status quo, we can withdraw and be defeated, or we can continue until 
we win and accomplish our goals in Iraq.

This resolution is a resolution of defeat and disgrace. There is no 
other way it could come out. That is the choice they are making. That 
is the decision they are making because we know if we withdraw and 
leave this to the Iraqis when they are not ready, we will lose all. Not 
only will we be disgraced as a nation, but we will have probably the 
biggest catastrophe--human catastrophe as well as political 
catastrophe--in the Middle East that is going to occur. We have to 
discuss the real implications of that choice.

I oppose this resolution because it does not support our mission, it 
does not support success, and it makes the decision for defeat. Real 
leaders would come up with a plan of action that they follow through 
on. And whether we agree with the President or not, he has put a plan 
on the table and he intends to follow through on it with all the advice 
he can get from his military people. Our role is not just to criticize 
that, but if we don't agree, it is to come up with another plan, 
propose it, and our responsibility is to sell it to the American 
people--not just to criticize, not to come up with resolutions that 
don't mean anything, intended to embarrass the President. But what it 
really does is deteriorate the morale of our troops.

I know we are frustrated with this war, and the fear of failure is 
all around us. But we cannot digress into being critics in this body. 
Our job is to lead.

I want to conclude this morning with some comments from the soldiers. 
I know other Senators have called parents who have soldier sons and 
daughters who have been killed. I have not had one who told me to get 
out of Iraq. I have had a lot of them tell me: Win. That is how to 
honor the sacrifice is to win.

SPC Peter Manna:




 If they don't think we're doing a good job, everything we 


 have done here is all in vain.


We have a number of these, but I don't have time to read them all.

SGT Manuel Sahagun said:




 One thing I don't like is when people back home say they 


 support the troops but they don't support the war. If they're 


 going to support us, support us all the way.


Americans are not against this war; they are against losing. They 
need to know we can win it.

General Petraeus, the best general that we have, whom we have just 
approved, confirmed in the Senate, has told us that we can succeed with 
the President's plan. This is our last best hope to leave Iraq as a 
free democracy and to help stabilize the Middle East. The other choice 
is defeat and disgrace.

Mr. President, I call on all of my Senate colleagues not to support 
this resolution and to act as leaders: to put forward a plan or support 
the one that the President has put forward.

I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of the time.