---
---

# None
## `223f7f32ac407cba0c14f153b13cfa06`
`Ms. LEE — 4 June 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. I thank the gentleman for yielding and for your leadership 
and your commitment to our country's children.

I rise today in strong support of this bill. Not only does it provide 
for the modernization and repair of our schools, but it also employs 
green building standards and encourages States to adopt forward-
thinking, energy-efficient strategies.

And I must thank Chairman Miller for this bill, and the committee, 
but also for including in the manager's amendment language that I 
authored that requires local education agencies to report on the number 
and amount of contracts awarded to small minority and women-owned and 
veteran-owned businesses.

As a longtime advocate of green jobs that will be fundamental to 
America's future economic competitiveness, I believe everyone must have 
the opportunity to benefit from the green economy supported by this 
language.

Let me just say that I firmly believe the American people would 
rather invest in their school children. And in listening to this 
debate, it's mind boggling to hear the other side talk about resource 
allocation and priorities. I think the American people would rather 
send our children to decent schools rather than fund a war and an 
occupation in Iraq that did not have to be fought. Here we're talking 
about now another $180 something billion plus as another down payment 
of this occupation that the President wants. This could lead us up to, 
what, $3 trillion in terms of the occupation.