# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `22417f1c16ff906e8315d4f542983f27`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in very, very strong support of 
this rule, and I urge all my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to 
support this rule. In particular, Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased that 
this rule makes in order an amendment offered by myself, Mr. Obey and 
Mr. Jones of North Carolina to require a meaningful exit strategy from 
Afghanistan.

As we are being asked to consider tens of billions of dollars in 
supplemental funding for the war, I believe that now is the time for us 
to ask tough questions and demand straight answers. Of all the problems 
that President Obama inherited from the Bush administration, 
Afghanistan is the one that keeps getting more and more complicated.

In just the past few weeks, two brave young soldiers from Fall River, 
Massachusetts, in my district, lost their lives in Afghanistan. So this 
is a big deal, and we need to get it right.

Last December, President Obama told the American people that we would 
begin to withdraw our forces next July. The American people deserve to 
know if that plan is still in place and how we're going to get there.

Much has been made about General Stanley McChrystal's comments in 
Rolling Stone magazine about the Nation's civilian leadership. But 
there are other parts of that article that I find to be much more 
disturbing. General McChrystal's chief of operations said that 
Afghanistan, and I quote, ''is not going to look like a win, smell like 
a win, or taste like a win. This is going to end in an argument.''

A senior adviser to General McChrystal said, and I quote again, ''If 
Americans pulled back and started paying attention to this war, it 
would become even less popular.'' A senior military official said this, 
and I quote again, ''There's a possibility we could ask for another 
surge of U.S. forces next summer if we see success here.''

Mr. Speaker, I voted in 2001 to go to war in Afghanistan, to hunt 
down al Qaeda, and to eliminate their threat. And I would cast that 
same vote today in a heartbeat. But what we are doing in Afghanistan 
today is far beyond that original authorization. We are engaged in 
extensive, expensive nation building in Afghanistan. And frankly, given 
the level of unemployment and the severe economic situation we face in 
the United States, I would rather do a little bit more nation building 
here at home.

Some in this body have refused to support extending unemployment 
benefits for out-of-work Americans because they say we cannot afford 
it. We are told we can't afford to help States avoid laying off 
teachers. We're told we can't afford to improve our roads and our 
bridges or help more families afford a college education. We are told 
we can't afford to prevent foreclosures or to improve child nutrition, 
and now we are being asked to borrow another $33 billion for nation 
building in Afghanistan?

We don't have the money to help American working families. But when 
it comes to supporting a corrupt and incompetent Karzai government, we 
are supposed to be a bottomless pit. You know, we talk a lot about the 
deficit around here. We have borrowed $350 billion, added to the debt, 
not paid for, for the war in Afghanistan. How are we supposed to 
address the deficit if we don't know how many more billions of dollars 
we are going to be spending in Afghanistan?

My colleagues, we all have a responsibility here. It's not just the 
President's war. It's our war, too, like it or not. We voted to send 
our sons and daughters to war. We voted repeatedly to send money to 
support this war. We have a responsibility to ask the tough questions 
and to do the right thing. So I urge all my colleagues to think long 
and hard today about this critical issue. It is time for Congress to 
step up to the plate and do its duty.

I hope my colleagues will support the Lee amendment. I hope they will 
support the McGovern-Obey-Jones amendment. And I hope they will support 
this rule.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ''yes'' vote on the previous question and on 
the rule.