---
---

# HEALTH CARE REFORM
## `22495eaa9a0423dd480e502c166bfc43`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. I thank my colleagues. And they're well on 
target, of course. We're just, Mr. Speaker, trying to make sure that 
all of our colleagues, all of our colleagues and their constituents 
understand that we on this side of the aisle, the Republican Party, we 
feel that we have the best health care system in the world. We think 
doing routine screening mammograms starting at age 40 and emphasizing 
and recommending breast self-examination, screening young African 
American children for sickle cell anemia, doing routine screening of 
hearing and vision in preschool for all of our children, we think all 
of these things are good.

We have a great health care system, and it's not perfect. We know 
that there are things that can and should be done. But in an 
incremental way, Mr. Speaker. Not spending $1.5 trillion, not spending 
$900 billion. I guess the Senate got a score of $785 billion, and 
they're just elated.

Mr. Speaker, when you spend $250 billion--when you spend $100,000, 
for that matter, on something that is bad for the American people, you 
have done them a grave disservice--and especially all of the spending 
at a time when our unemployment rate is 10.2 percent. Some of us have 
members of our own family who have children who have lost their jobs--
16 million across this country.

And we have this situation in Afghanistan where a four-star general, 
Mr. Speaker, a commander who was put there by President Obama, says to 
his Commander in Chief, ''Mr. President, I need help. We can win. I 
need help.''

Well, how can that not be a higher priority than totally reforming 
our health care system, throwing the baby out with the bath water, 
spending a trillion dollars, or $2 trillion, or $2/1/2/ trillion? How 
can that be more important than putting people back to work?

The President, Mr. Speaker, was just over there on a 9-day trip. I 
wish he had been right here inside the Beltway in the Oval Office 
working on this issue and this economy. But I hope while he was over 
there that he got some advantage out of it, Mr. Speaker, and maybe 
asked Hu Jintao, the Chinese President, to write him a check for $210 
billion so he can bring it back and pay for this Trojan horse that we 
just passed here on the floor of the House today in the name of H.R. 
3961.

I want to yield to my good friend from Texas, Judge Gohmert.