---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `22641b8e6235696eb05cac8c366daf8b`
`Mr. SNYDER — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. SNYDER. Power, Mr. Chairman, is the goal of a good defense bill 
for this country. Every nation wants to be powerful enough to keep 
safe. Not every dispute, however, is resolved by military power, not 
every hope for the future is achieved by military power. Power is more 
than just military power. It's economic, diplomatic, the moral 
authority that a nation has.

Secretary Robert Gates, our Secretary of Defense, has done, I think, 
two very admirable things as Secretary of Defense. One, he has restored 
the confidence in the decision-making process in the Pentagon. Second, 
he has pointed to the broad aspects of power for this country. We are 
all very familiar with his speech to Kansas State back in November of 
last year, in which he called for dramatic increases, not in the 
Defense Department, but dramatic increases in the State Department, 
dramatic increases in budget, dramatic increases in staff.

He called for the staff and funding for the USAID, the Agency for 
International Development. Mr. Skelton arranged for Secretary Gates and 
Secretary Rice to testify before our full Armed Services Committee on 
the importance of interagency communication and collaboration, not just 
within the Pentagon, but between the State Department and the Defense 
and USAID and the other agencies in the government because it is 
important to our national defense, to our overall concept of power, not 
just military power.

Well, this bill contains some provisions that deal with some of these 
issues. First of all, some time ago this body, the House, passed H.R. 
1084, Representative Sam Farr's bill, that came out of the Foreign 
Affairs Committee. It deals with the whole issue of establishing a 
Civilian Reserve Board to deal with the fact that we sometimes need 
civilian employees to go into areas of instability and even of war. But 
we haven't been able to have the kind of personnel we wanted and the 
numbers in the time that we need.

So we passed this bill, but it's been hung up in the Senate by one 
Senator. So just by unanimous agreement of the Democrats and 
Republicans on the Armed Services Committee and with the consent and 
advocacy of Mr. Berman, that was included as part of this bill, 
unchanged from how it was passed before, and so it will now have a 
second chance to go to the Senate and be passed.

I am also looking forward to the fact that tomorrow, Mr. Skelton, 
along with Mr. Berman and Ms. Lowey, will be introducing an amendment 
that will establish a standing advisory panel on improving integration 
between the Department of Defense, Department of State, and the United 
States Agency for International Development on matters of national 
security.

I will always remember one of my constituents, a veterinarian from 
Arkansas, who served in both Afghanistan and then a year in Iraq. She 
sent me an e-mail about halfway through her year in Iraq, in which she 
said, and we were talking about this issue of interagency cooperation, 
she said, I sometimes think and feel that the differences in divisions 
between the agencies of the United States Government are greater than 
the differences between us and the Iraqis. That is saying something in 
terms of inhibiting our ability to have the kind of national defense we 
want. So I applaud Mr. Berman and Mr. Skelton and Ms. Lowey for doing 
this amendment.

This bill is about military families, it's about our men and women in 
uniform. We do a lot of things in this bill for military families in 
great detail. But it's also time for this country, and I hope it will 
occur in our Presidential debate that will be going on over the next 
several months, but it certainly needs to occur in this Congress and in 
our committee. It's time to step back and look at the big picture. What 
should the grand national security strategy involving all components of 
our power, and all the threats out there, what should the grand 
strategy be for this country to face and achieve over the next 5 years 
and 10 years and 15 and 20 years. Chairman Skelton and I and 
Subcommittee Chairman Akin and I have been talking about these issues 
and hope to start some efforts to look at these big pictures.

Finally, I want to commend both Chairman Skelton, but the three 
Republican Members that are leaving us. Duncan Hunter, who, when former 
Chairman Floyd Spence was ill, stepped in as the acting chairman with a 
great generous spirit and in a very graceful manner to take over for 
our beloved and ailing Floyd Spence, and then also serve with 
distinction as chairman, and perhaps partly because of his fine 
military service as a young man. Mr. Everett, we will be missing his 
contributions.

I finally want to say a word about Jim Saxton of New Jersey because I 
was his ranking member when I think it was Speaker Hastert established 
a panel on terrorism.



Before there was ever a September 11, 2001, Jim Saxton was leading a 
series of


classified briefings and hearings on the threat of terrorism and the 
threat of al Qaeda, long before any of us learned to pronounce the 
phrase ''al Qaeda,'' and I commend him for the work that he has done. I 
would just say that I think this is a great bill and applaud the work.