---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `22659a2a275034f0908201d66ff8b77b`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 24 April 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I rise today in honor of a young man 
from Kentucky who was lost in the performance of his duty. CPL 
Christopher Tyler Warndorf, of Burlington, KY, was tragically killed on 
August 29, 2006, in Iraq's Al Anbar Province, after an explosion set by 
terrorists went off.

A U.S. marine, he was 23 years old. Corporal Warndorf's mother Tina 
explains the circumstances of her son's death and how he died a hero.




 The suicide bomber's plan was to come through the gates of 


 their base. Tyler stopped him before that happened.


For his bravery in uniform, Corporal Warndorf received several 
medals, awards, and decorations, including the National Defense Service 
Medal, the Navy Unit Commendation Ribbon, and the Purple Heart.

Looking back, it is clear Tyler's service to his country, and indeed 
his entire life, was a gift. Tina remembers how she and Tyler's father 
Christopher Joseph Warndorf were once told they could not expect to 
have children.




 A month before we were to be married, the doctors told us 


 children would not be possible. We were ecstatic when we 


 found out we were going to have a baby. It was a pretty high-


 risk pregnancy and a tough delivery. Tyler came in fighting 


 and left fighting.


Tina and Christopher went on to have three children in all--Nicholas 
and Katelyn soon joined eldest son Tyler, who went by his middle name 
because Tina didn't want to hear her son called Little Chris.

As a child, Tyler had to wear braces to straighten his legs. But that 
didn't stop him from going on to play sports and becoming a leader of 
other kids both on and off the playing field.

Tina remembers:




 Tyler was often teased for being so small. When he went out 


 for football, he was so small none of the gear would fit him. 


 The coach got gear from the peewee football league and told 


 me he was on the team because of his heart, his soul, and his 


 determination.


In addition to playing football and soccer as a kid, Tyler was active 
in his church, the First Church of Christ in Burlington. He convinced 
his family to join as well and made friends through the church's youth 
group.

Tina remembers how little trouble Tyler gave her growing up.




 He always told me where he was going to be. I wish all 


 parents could have that relationship with their kids. Tyler 


 set the bar with Katelyn and Nick because they saw how I 


 trusted him. There was never a reason to worry.


Tyler was interested in bridges and architecture and for a while set 
his sights on becoming a structural engineer. After a family visit to 
California, he thought about going to school there. But then came the 
terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and those plans changed.

Tina said:




 When 9/11 happened, he came and told me he was going to 


 join. He loved the Marines. He excelled at it.


Tyler enlisted in the Marine Corps in the fall of 2003, a few months 
after graduating from Conner High School. He spent the whole summer 
beforehand running and getting in shape. He was assigned to Lima 
Company, 3rd Battalion, 8th Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine Division, based 
in Camp Lejeune, NC, and was eventually sent to Iraq under the First 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Forward.

As a marine, Tyler deployed once to Haiti and twice to Iraq. While 
serving in Haiti, Tyler was appalled to see children forced to scavenge 
for food and eat out of garbage cans. He sent to his family a list of 
food to send, which he passed out to the neediest kids.

Tyler did not let the thousands of miles between Iraq and Kentucky 
weaken the bonds between him and his family. His little sister Katelyn 
received a special birthday present when she turned 13. Tyler had 13 
white roses delivered to her class at Conner Middle School, while over 
the intercom a tape of Tyler singing ''Happy Birthday'' played. It was 
a touching gift from a big brother who, had he been there, would surely 
be looking over Katelyn's report card, as he had in the past. ''He made 
sure we got good grades,'' Katelyn remembers of Tyler. ''If not, he 
would give us a talking-to.''

Tyler's family was blessed to receive a phone call from him in Iraq 
before his tragic death, on the happy occasion of a new niece born into 
the family. ''My daughter and I got to talk to him 45


minutes before he was killed,'' Tina recalls. ''If anything, it was 
comforting, because if it had been weeks, it would have been really 
hard.''

The support the Warndorf family received during Tyler's funeral was 
of tremendous solace.

Tina said:




 I didn't expect what we received. Streets were lined the 


 entire way to the funeral. I had no idea. For the visitation, 


 the people gave me strength. Over 4,000 people visited. They 


 will never know how much their support and kindness meant.


One of those supporters was Tyler's captain, who used to invite Tyler 
to his house for dinner on weekends. He told the Warndorfs that Tyler 
was such a wonderful person, he was as proud of him as if he had been 
his own son.

My prayers go out to the Warndorf family for the loss of this fine 
young man. We are thinking today of his mother Tina; his brother 
Nicholas; his sister Katelyn; and many other beloved family members and 
friends. Tyler was predeceased by his father Christopher Joseph 
Warndorf.

Tyler leaves behind many grateful people who were happy to have known 
him and felt his presence in their lives. His mother Tina expresses 
this feeling best of all, so I will leave my colleagues with her words:




 Many soldiers commented on how amazing he was. This made me 


 very proud. He was my confidant, my son, and my best friend. 


 At least we got to have him at all.


The Senate salutes Christopher Tyler Warndorf for his service to his 
country. He reminded those who knew him what it was to be a hero, and 
we will forever honor his noble sacrifice.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.