---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `227bd7d5c573fa646bf9aac66af3fd5b`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 26 April 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, in 1999, when George Bush was a 
candidate for the Presidency and President Clinton was Commander in 
Chief, George Bush had this to say about American troops in Bosnia:




 Victory means exit strategy, and it's important for the 


 President to explain what the exit strategy is.


Well, the Congress has been asking for an exit strategy year after 
year for 4 years now. In fact, President Bush has no exit strategy. So 
the United States is bogged down in an impossible situation: ''Shock 
and awe,'' followed by ineffective follow-on efforts. Today, in the 
fifth year of this war, the United States is enmeshed in what has 
become a vicious and terrifying civil war. It cannot be won through the 
use of American military force. This war can only be won through 
political accommodation between Sunni and Shia, which means only the 
Iraqis can settle it, which means only the Iraqi Government can settle 
it. To this date, they appear to be unable to do what needs to be done 
to stop this conflict.

So without an exit strategy, the war goes on, the killings continue, 
and the casualties rise. Nearly 25,000 Americans injured, with tens of 
thousands of Iraqis killed and injured, and hundreds of thousands of 
people displaced from their homes by this war. Estimates put Iraqi 
civilian deaths in the first 3 months of this year at more than 5,500 
in the Baghdad area alone.

On Monday, two truck bombs killed nine members of the 82nd Airborne 
Division and wounded 20 more. It was the deadliest day of combat in the 
division's history since the Vietnam war.

I fear that unless Congress acts and puts forward that exit strategy, 
this bloodshed will continue year after year. That is intolerable.

Today, we have before us a measure that offers a solution and a 
strategy to fill the void left by the administration. The Iraqi 
supplemental spending bill responsibly funds our troops and changes the 
course in Iraq.

Most importantly, it sends a message to the Iraqi Government that the 
U.S. commitment is not open-ended, that benchmarks will measure the 
progress, and that political accommodation is crucial.

Under this legislation, the Iraqi Government would be judged on how 
it disarms militias, pursues Sunni-Shia reconciliation initiatives, 
establishes fair


oil-sharing laws, reforms debaathification laws, and protects the 
rights of minorities. This is as it should be.

This legislation ensures that our troops have sufficient rest and 
training and are provided well-maintained equipment. This is as it 
should be.

It allows for a redefined mission for American forces limited to 
antiterrorism operations, training Iraqi forces, and protecting 
American civilians and members of the Armed Forces. This is as it 
should be.

It begins the process of bringing our troops home. Into the fifth 
year of a war, this, too, is as it should be.

The American people spoke in a clear voice. Today, the United States 
Senate will as well.

Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.