---
---

# RESTORING AMERICAN FINANCIAL STABILITY ACT OF 2010
## `22853a20aea9fbc41112d46808e3fbbf`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 10 May 2010`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, we continue to learn more about the 
terrorist who attempted to kill scores of innocent Americans in Times 
Square earlier this month.

The President's assistant for counterterrorism, John Brennan, now 
says Faisal Shahzad was working on behalf of the Pakistan Taliban, or 
TTP, all along.

What this event and the aftermath have shown is that the 
administration has what can most charitably be described as an evolving 
strategy on dealing with captured terrorists.

This was perfectly clear over the weekend when Attorney General 
Holder said in reference to the Times Square bomber that America is 
''now dealing with international terrorists,'' and this may require 
changes to when and how terrorists are issued Miranda warnings.

Now dealing with international terrorists? I remind the Attorney 
General that we have been very much at war with international terrorism 
for a long time and that we face threats in this war from those who 
attacked us on 9/11, al-Qaida's associated groups, those who attack our 
troops every day in Afghanistan and Iraq, the man who tried to blow up 
a plane over Detroit on Christmas, and men such as the one who plotted 
to maim and kill Americans in Times Square.

Once the administration realizes this, a lot of other questions will 
become a lot clearer. Unfortunately, the administration seems too often 
to have a trial-and-error approach.

On Guantanamo, they tried to close it and realized it was not that 
easy. On the question of the proper venue for trials, they announced 
they would try 9/11 mastermind Khaleid Sheikh Mohammed in New York City 
and then realized maybe that was not a good idea. When it came to the 
Christmas Day bomber, they treated him like a common criminal and then 
realized that might not have been the best route either.

Now, after learning the Times Square bomber is actually a tool of the 
Pakistani Taliban, they are wondering out loud again if they should 
revisit their approach to administering Miranda warnings.

Let's make it easy for the Attorney General. Every terrorist--every 
single one of them--every terrorist should be treated like one.

In the first months of the administration, the President signed 
Executive orders ending the CIA's interrogation program, demanding the 
closure of Guantanamo within a year, and essentially putting the 
Attorney General in charge of the war on terror.

More than a year after these Executive orders were signed and after 
several failed terrorist attacks on the homeland, the administration 
finally--finally--seems to realize the war on terror is not a simple 
matter of law enforcement. A clear and forceful strategy is needed just 
as much at home as it is needed abroad.

Republicans have been saying this all along. It is time the 
administration decides on a strategy that recognizes the implications 
of the war we are in and the dangers we face, not only abroad but right 
at home.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.