# None
## `228af5a1b7a3db81e233b21bdf6c06f9`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee â€” 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. Thank you, Mr. Ross.

Certainly, it's always a pleasure to be here to speak when the Blue 
Dogs have a special session and an opportunity to come and speak before 
the Members of Congress, as well as the American people. There are some 
facts that I believe all of us need to know. I think the American 
people need to know this.

When you look at the oil reserves, the proved oil reserves, that we 
have in the world, America has about 3 percent. When you look at the 
actual production of the consumption of oil in the world, we produce 
about 10 percent of the world's consumption. Unfortunately, we consume 
almost 25 percent of all the production in the world, and in doing 
that, it makes us almost be a hostage to oil-producing countries.

Now, let's talk a little bit about how much oil that we use. We use 
over 7.5, almost 8 billion barrels of crude oil a year. We produce 
about 2.5 billion of that, and the rest we import, mainly from our 
hemisphere, some small amount from the Middle East, but mostly, from 
our hemisphere, whether it's Canada, Mexico, Venezuela. Different parts 
of our hemisphere comes to America.

Now, what does that tell me? If we have got 3 percent of the oil 
reserves, then we're always going to be held hostage. But where are 
those reserves located?

They tell us that we've got roughly 150 billion barrels of crude oil 
in the Outer Continental Shelf. That's the max. Good estimates say we 
probably have no more than 85 billion barrels of crude oil in the Outer 
Continental Shelf, add about 10 billion max up in ANWR or about 7.5 
billion that we could actually take out of ANWR for a profitable margin 
for our oil companies.

That being the case, we have a 1-year supply in ANWR. We're hearing 
from folks who are making this a political issue that we just drill and 
drill our way out of it.

We import 5 billion barrels of crude oil a year, 5 billion barrels. 
If we, in fact, have 100 billion barrels of crude oil, which is the 
estimate that we would have probably in both ANWR, in the Outer 
Continental Shelf in Alaska, in the Outer Continental Shelf in the 
Pacific--about 24 billion in the Outer Continental Shelf in Alaska; 20 
billion barrels in the Outer Continental Shelf in the Pacific; in the 
gulf about 44 billion; very little on the Atlantic Outer Continental 
Shelf, about 3 to 4 billion barrels; little over 100 billion barrels 
total. That's a 20-year supply of what we're importing today.

And we will use all that up, and if we have another war, by the time 
we have to defend ourselves and have the abundance of oil, are we going 
to go to Saudi Arabia or Iraq or Iran and ask them for oil so we can 
fight them with it?

I think we have got to look at alternatives more than we have ever 
looked. Ten years ago, in 1998, the average price of a barrel of oil 
was $14 a barrel. Let me rephrase that. Just 10 years ago, $14 a 
barrel. Volatile conditions in the world, over-consumption, and in many 
cases, an unplanned energy policy that will make us totally self-
sustainable has not occurred.

I did some research on windmills. From 1850 to 1900 over 6 million 
windmills were sold in this country. They ground our corn with it to 
make cornmeal. They ground our wheat to make flour. In some cases, they 
even used it


for electricity. In 1880, this country had 50 million people in it: 9.5 
million families, 8.5 million households. In that 50-year period of 
time, 6 million windmills. They were smarter than us because we've 
become dependent on the combustion engine. We've become dependent on 
foreign sources for our crude oil.

It is time that we take a serious look at all the alternatives, 
including wind and solar, including nuclear. I'm not sure I'd like to 
say this. T. Boone Pickens is one of those guys, Mr. Speaker, that 
helped fund Swift Boat Veterans for Truth. When that guy comes to the 
Democrat Caucus and says you are on the right track, a staunch 
Republican, it tells me we are doing something right.

I would love to spend about 20 minutes here.

