# FOCUSING ON MOVING FORWARD
## `22993c21c30eee1b1d291db52ed7374d`
`Mr. LAMPSON — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. LAMPSON. I certainly agree with everything that Mr. Dent has said 
and that Mr. Gilchrest has said and that you, Mr. Israel, have said. I 
think it's worth repeating some of it. I think it's worth emphasizing 
the importance of this being a first step and really trying to change 
the attitude of our body to achieve what the Founding Fathers of this 
Nation attempted when they designed this body, which is supposed to be 
deliberative. It's supposed to be able to come together with tolerance.

I was looking at the words that are embedded in this desk here before 
us that we should listen with respect to each other, and words that Mr. 
Dent just gave us as far as where we can go, what we can be doing to 
begin to craft a direction for us.

Just this past weekend, I was at a ceremony with many Gold Star 
Mothers, parents who had lost their sons or daughters in either 
Afghanistan or in Iraq. I guess all of us have friends or parents or 
grandparents or someone that has lost someone there, pastors in our 
districts, perhaps, who are mourning the loss of some of our best and 
bravest that America has to offer.

The best way that we can honor these soldiers, I guess, as Mr. 
Gilchrest was referring to a few moments ago, the best way that we can 
do things to honor them and family is to work together as our Founders 
and Framers envisioned to answer the difficult questions that are 
facing us.

I think that it's tremendous that the Center Aisle Caucus has taken 
the step. I wanted to congratulate you and the other members who have 
started to ask Members of our Congress to join us. I hope that other 
colleagues will grow this into a large body.

I would like to hear some of the things that you are proposing at 
this time to move us forward on the issue of Iraq.