---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `22a56c8202f2907975552e6cee0a5387`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 16 May 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Chairman, I am proud today to offer an amendment 
to H.R. 1585, the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act, 
that will make certain the Niagara Falls Air Reserve base continues to 
play an integral role in our homeland defense.

The Niagara airbase is home to the 914th Air Reserve and the 107th 
Air Guard. Both units have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, and 
are responsible for patrols over large metropolitan areas and key 
infrastructure throughout the Northeast and Midwest.

The value of the men and women serving at Niagara was clearly 
demonstrated during the tragic events of September 11th. The 107th was 
the first Refueling Wing to fly Combat Air patrols over New York City. 
In addition, a specialized unit of the 914th, trained in identifying 
and preparing the remains of disaster victims, was instrumental in the 
9/11 recovery mission.

The 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Commission determined that the 
airbase would better serve our Nation if the 107th Guard unit became an 
Associate Air Wing of the 914th Reserve.

This is the first time in Air Force history that a Guard unit will 
associate with a Reserve unit. Predictably, the Air Force is facing a 
number of unprecedented challenges in attempting to shift assets around 
in order to meet the BRAC mandate.

I and the Western New York Congressional delegation have been working 
with the Air Reserve and the Air Guard for over a year and a half to 
determine the optimal allocation of aircraft at the base to ensure that 
both units can adequately complete their missions. The uncertainty 
surrounding what comes next at Niagara has created a lot of anxiety for 
the service members at the airbase and the Western New York community. 
The Air Force must determine a way forward with Niagara this year to 
ensure that the base continues to play a key role in protecting our 
Nation.

Accordingly, my amendment simply directs the Secretary of the Air 
Force to submit a report to the House and Senate Committees on Armed 
Services detailing the Air Force's plan for future aviation assets at 
the Niagara airbase. I want to thank Chairman Skelton and his staff for 
working with me to draft this amendment, and I urge the House to adopt 
it.