---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `22b612670bd10ec41159488c5e9c0e98`
`Mr. BLUNT — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. BLUNT. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

We all know that in a few minutes the President's veto will be 
sustained. We didn't all figure that out this morning. We didn't all 
figure that out last week. We didn't even all figure that out last 
month. We've known that since the very start of this debate, 90 days of 
debate at a time when there are real consequences for our troops.

There are consequences, we are told this week, in the preparation for 
troops going to Iraq and action. There are consequences of maintenance 
on bases in this country. There are consequences in the way we are 
dealing with our equipment and our repairs, and we have taken 90 days 
to get to this point so we can start all over again.

I hope when we start all over again this afternoon that we will start 
all over again with a commitment to get this job done as soon as 
possible, rather than to take as long as possible. It does matter. The 
message we send to the world matters. The message we send to our troops 
matters. This bill needs to be as clean as possible. It needs to be 
straightforward.

There are things in this bill that in another bill I could support. 
There are things in this bill I couldn't support in any bill, but there 
are things here that should be done that have nothing to do with this 
bill. I don't know why they were put on. Maybe they were put on to try 
to see if the majority could get the last votes necessary to pass a 
bill that has restrictions on the military that this Congress should 
never have advanced to the President's desk.

The President has vetoed. We will uphold that veto. Let's work 
together now to get the job done to support the


troops in Afghanistan, in Iraq and everywhere else around the world who 
are feeling the consequences of this 90 days we have already taken.

I will work with you. I hope you will work with us. We need to get 
this job started.

