# REMEMBERING SENATOR PAUL WELLSTONE
## `22bac599b70e82a0ab4f983499520ad1`
`Mr. BYRD — 25 October 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, 5 years ago today, our country lost a good 
man. Now, I am mindful of what the Scriptures say in that there is no 
man who is good. I am mindful of that. But this is a statement I am 
making, and in the context of the thoughts I wish to express, I am 
going to say: Five years ago today, our country lost a good man. It 
lost an outstanding Senator. It was 5 years ago today that Senator Paul 
Wellstone and his wife Sheila and their daughter Marcia perished in a 
tragic plane crash.

Paul Wellstone died tragically, but he lived heroically. Paul 
Wellstone was unique. I knew him. Paul Wellstone was priceless. Paul 
Wellstone was irreplaceable. Paul Wellstone was a Senator of remarkable 
integrity and remarkable courage.

Only a few days before his tragic death, I witnessed firsthand the 
integrity and the courage of that Senator, Mr. Paul Wellstone.

Paul Wellstone was in the late stages of a close campaign for 
reelection. Paul Wellstone had been targeted for defeat by the George 
Bush-Karl Rove political machine. And this Senate was about to vote on 
the Iraq war resolution. I was here.

At that time, granting President Bush the authority for an invasion 
of Iraq was the political thing to do. The White House had convinced 
most of the country that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction and 
that Saddam Hussein was poised to use those weapons.

Many Americans had been frightened by a steady drumbeat of White 
House rhetoric about mushroom clouds and weapons of mass destruction. 
Many Americans had been convinced that the war would be brief and that 
our troops in Iraq would be welcomed with open arms.

Despite the then-prevailing view that voting against the Iraq war was 
political suicide, Senator Paul Wellstone--God rest his soul--Senator 
Paul Wellstone proudly and defiantly--do you hear that word 
''defiantly''--announced he would vote against it. I will never forget 
his words.

Seldom have I been so impressed with the courage of a colleague. 
Senator Paul Wellstone took a principled stand, a stand that would 
undoubtedly cost him votes, and maybe his reelection.

Did Paul Wellstone flinch? No. He did not let that sway him. He stood 
against the White House. Paul Wellstone stood against the easy, popular 
winds of the time. Paul Wellstone stood against the rush to war.

Senator Paul Wellstone placed the good of our country and the lives 
of young Americans far above his own reelection. That was Paul 
Wellstone.

We needed more Senators like Paul Wellstone.

Paul Wellstone exemplified the courage of his convictions. Senator 
Paul Wellstone stood proudly against the rush--the rush--to war. 
Senator Paul


Wellstone was brave. He was passionate. He was ever true to his 
conscience and to the people he represented. Despite the pain and the 
difficulty of multiple sclerosis, Paul Wellstone carried on and made us 
all feel humbled and proud by his bravery.


When the Senate lost Senator Paul Wellstone 5 years ago today, the 
Senate and the country lost a man of remarkable integrity. How I wish 
our country had more men like him--Paul Wellstone.

I close this statement with a poem, a remarkable poem--a remarkable 
poem for a remarkable man.



 God, give us men!


 A time like this demands strong minds, great hearts, true 





 faith, and ready hands.


 Men whom the lust of office does not kill;


 Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy;


 Men who possess opinions and a will;


 Men who have honor; men who will not lie.


 Men who can stand before a demagogue and brave his 





 treacherous flatteries without winking.


 Tall men, sun-crowned;


 Who live above the fog,


 In public duty and in private thinking.


 For while the rabble with its thumbworn creeds,


 its large professions and its little deeds,


 mingles in selfish strife, Lo! Freedom weeps!


 Wrong rules the land and waiting justice sleeps.


 God give us men!


 Men who serve not for selfish booty;


 But real men, courageous, who flinch not at duty.


 Men of dependable character; men of sterling


 worth;


 then wrongs will be redressed, and right will rule the Earth.


 God give us men!


Thank You, almighty God, for this remarkable man, this man of great 
honor, this remarkable man, Paul Wellstone. Whence cometh another?