---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `22bfafcdae62178f50031502ba1b5acd`
`Mr. LANTOS — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. LANTOS. Madam Speaker, as we come to the end of this debate, I 
want to commend every participant on both sides for conveying 
powerfully and eloquently their deeply held views.

I started this debate in the firm belief that escalation is a flawed 
idea. After listening carefully for the past 4 days to all of my 
colleagues, I am more convinced than ever that escalation is a flawed 
idea.

Escalation is not only the wrong policy for the United States, it is 
also the


wrong policy for Iraq. If Iraq is to succeed as a stable and prosperous 
state, it must learn to take responsibility. It must learn to make 
difficult decisions. It must amend its constitution in the interests of 
Iraqi reconciliation. It must devise an equitable law for sharing its 
oil and gas revenues. And it must take primary responsibility for its 
own security.

Unless we de-escalate, Iraq will never step up to the plate. But that 
is not the only reason we must de-escalate. Unless we do so, our great 
Nation will be unable to fulfill its many far-flung global 
responsibilities. Unless we de-escalate, we will simply lack the 
resources for critical tasks here at home and overseas.

All of us, Madam Speaker, are passionately committed to supporting 
and defending our troops. In the coming weeks, my fellow Democrats and 
I will bring forth specific proposals to enhance this Nation's support 
and defense of our brave troops.

Madam Speaker, the American people are not well-served by the surge 
and our present course in Iraq. This omelet cannot be unscrambled. 
There have been far too many mistakes made to undo the damage.

For the sake of Iraq, for the sake of our own national interests and 
for the sake of our incomparable troops, de-escalation must begin, and 
it must begin now.

I strongly support the resolution and urge all of my colleagues to do 
so.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.