---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `22c8bb08d452462a35ec4a329ea62174`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of the rule and 
the underlying bill. I know Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member Hunter 
have worked exceptionally hard on this bipartisan measure, and I thank 
them for their leadership.

Our operations in Iraq and Afghanistan have put great strain on our 
military, and this bill will reverse the decline in readiness. It adds 
funds for force protection programs such as mine resistant combat 
vehicles, IED countermeasures and body armor and a much deserved pay 
raise for the troops.

I'm also pleased that the measure recognizes the importance of 
submarines to our national security by adding $588 million to construct 
a second Virginia-class submarine as early as 2009, 3 years earlier 
than planned. This is welcome news to the men and woman at Electric 
Boat in Rhode Island, as well as Groton, Connecticut, as well as our 
entire submarine industrial base, which is threatened by an 
insufficient workload. The Navy's current shipbuilding plan would have 
our submarine fleet drop to dangerously low levels in future years, 
just as other nations are increasing their naval capabilities.

I've been working exceptionally hard for 6 years to address this 
important national security issue, and I thank Chairman Skelton and 
Seapower Chairman Taylor for their commitment to a robust submarine 
force.

This is a good bill and a good rule and, Madam Speaker, I urge its 
passage. And I thank my colleague for the time.

The rule before us makes in order an amendment I am offering with the 
gentleman from Maine, Mr. Michaud, that would require military 
pharmacies to include emergency contraception in the basic core 
formulary. Access


to this contraception is important to our servicewomen--particularly 
those who have been the victims of sexual assault--and I urge my 
colleagues to support our amendment.

We can show our appreciation for all the men and women who keep our 
Nation safe by voting for this rule and the defense authorization act.