---
---

# None
## `22d90085e478668445fbbe4d5df6fbe8`
`Mr. RANGEL — 28 July 2008`

---


Mr. RANGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to enter into the Record an 
article from the New York Times published on July 8, 2008 titled 
''After the Battle, Fighting the Bottle at Home.''

Alcohol abuse is rising among Afghanistan and Iraq veterans, many of 
them trying to deaden the repercussions of war and disorientation of 
home. The problem is particularly prevalent among those suffering from 
post-traumatic stress disorder. Increasingly, these veterans are 
spilling into the criminal justice system. Their stories are similar: 
coming back from war with lost jobs, crushing debt and ruptured 
families.

In May, House and Senate passed bills that would require the 
veteran's agency to expand substance-abuse screening and treatment for 
all veterans. However, this legislation does not provide immediate 
relief to veterans. For active duty service members, the military faces 
a shortage of substance-abuse providers on bases across the country, 
while the insurance plan, Tricare, makes it difficult for many 
reservists and their families to get treatment. Finding treatment 
programs that accept Tricare often ends in frustration and few 
residential rehabilitation programs have the accreditation required by 
the plan. An advocacy group, Veterans for America, found the demand for 
psychological help was so great, and the system so burdened, that 
soldiers often waited a month to be seen.

The Pentagon's most recent survey of health-related behavior found 
that for the first time in more than 20 years, a quarter of the 
soldiers surveyed considered themselves heavy drinkers, defined as 
having 5 or more drinks at least once a week. Consequently, suicides 
have also reached a high in the Army last year in which alcohol or 
drugs were cited in 30 percent of the 115 cases, the Pentagon reported.

Last January, a city court judge in Buffalo, Robert T. Russell, 
noticed a surge of recent veterans with substance-abuse and mental-
health problems in the city's courtrooms. He created the Nation's first 
Veterans Court, where, instead of jail, veterans arrested for low-level 
crimes, mostly tied to alcohol or drugs, are enrolled in treatment.









[From the New York Times, July 8, 2008]







 After the Battle, Fighting the Bottle at Home














(By Lizette Alvarez)




 Most nights when Anthony Klecker, a former marine, finally 


 slept, he found himself back on the battlefields of Iraq. He 


 would awake in a panic, and struggle futilely to return to 


 sleep.



 Days were scarcely better. Car alarms shattered his nerves. 


 Flashbacks came unexpectedly, at the whiff of certain 


 cleaning chemicals. Bar fights seemed unavoidable; he nearly 


 attacked a man for not washing his hands in the bathroom.



 Desperate for sleep and relief, Mr. Klecker, 30, drank 


 heavily. One morning, his parents found him in the driveway 


 slumped over the wheel of his car, the door wide open, wipers 


 scraping back and forth. Another time, they found him curled 


 in a fetal position in his closet.



 Yet only after his drunken driving caused the death of a 


 16-year-old cheerleader did Mr. Klecker acknowledge the depth 


 of his problem: His eight months at war had profoundly 


 damaged his psyche.



 ''I was trying to be the tough marine I was trained to be--


 not to talk about problems, not to cry,'' said Mr. Klecker, 


 who has since been diagnosed with severe post-traumatic 


 stress disorder. ''I imprisoned myself in my own mind.''



 Mr. Klecker's case is part of a growing body of evidence 


 that alcohol abuse is rising among veterans of combat in 


 Afghanistan and Iraq, many of them trying to deaden the 


 repercussions of war and disorientation of home. While the 


 numbers remain relatively small, experts say and studies 


 indicate that the problem is particularly prevalent among 


 those suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, as it 


 was after Vietnam. Studies indicate that illegal drug use, 


 much less common than heavy drinking in the military, is up 


 slightly, too.



 Increasingly, these troubled veterans are spilling into the 


 criminal justice system. A small fraction wind up in prison 


 for homicides or other major crimes. Far more, though, are 


 involved in drunken bar fights, reckless driving and alcohol-


 fueled domestic violence. Whatever the particulars, their 


 stories often spool out in unwitting victims, ruptured 


 families, lost jobs and crushing debt.



 With the rising awareness of the problem has come mounting 


 concern about the access to treatment and whether enough 


 combat veterans are receiving the help that is available to 


 them.



 Having cut way back in the 1990s as the population of 


 veterans declined, the Veterans Health Administration says it 


 is expanding its alcohol- and drug-abuse services. But 


 advocacy groups and independent experts--including members of 


 a Pentagon mental-health task force that issued its report 


 last year--are concerned that much more needs to be done. In 


 May, the House and Senate passed bills that would require the 


 veterans agency to expand substance-abuse screening and 


 treatment for all veterans.



 ''The war is now and the problems are now,'' said Richard 


 A. McCormick, a senior scholar for public health at Case 


 Western Reserve University in Cleveland who served on the 


 Pentagon task force. ''Every day there is a cohort of men and 


 women being discharged who need services not one or two or 


 five years from now. They need them now.''



 For active-duty service members, the military faces a 


 shortage of substance-abuse providers on bases across the 


 country, while its health insurance plan, Tricare, makes it 


 difficult for many reservists and their families to get 


 treatment.



 In the breach, a few states, including California, 


 Connecticut and Minnesota, have passed laws or begun programs 


 to encourage alternative sentences, often including 


 treatment, for veterans with substance-abuse and mental-


 health problems.



 In recent years, the military has worked to transform a 


 culture that once indulged heavy drinking as part of its 


 warrior ethos into one that discourages it and encourages 


 service members to seek help.



 ''The Army takes alcohol and drug abuse very seriously and 


 has tried for decades to deglamorize its use,'' said Lt. Col. 


 George Wright, an Army spokesman. ''With the urgency of this 


 war, we continue to tackle the problem with education, 


 prevention and treatment.''



 That is a tricky mission in time of war.



 ''The problem in today's military is soldiers have to be 


 warriors, killers, do war, but we don't allow them any 


 releases like we used to,'' said Bryan Lane, a former special 


 forces sergeant who sustained a traumatic brain injury in 


 Iraq and has post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD. ''You 


 can't go out and drink, you can't get into a fight. It's 


 completely unrealistic.''



 The military, he said, is trying to create a contradiction: 


 ''a perfect warrior, and then a perfect gentleman.''



 Warning Signs Grow



 Fort Drum, in the North Country of New York just outside 


 Watertown, is home to the Army's most-deployed brigade--the 


 Second Brigade of the 10th Mountain Division. Late last year, 


 several thousand soldiers returned after 15 months in Iraq. 


 Some had served three, even four, tours, and they quickly 


 overwhelmed the base's mental health system. A study by an 


 advocacy group, Veterans for America, found the demand for 


 psychological help was so great, and the system so 


 overburdened, that soldiers often waited a month to be seen.



 Many also did what generations of homecoming soldiers have 


 done: they salved their wounds in local bars. With drinking 


 off-limits in Iraq, at least openly, they were that much more 


 likely to binge, that much less able to tolerate it.



 The base's commander, Maj. Gen. Michael L. Oates, says that 


 since his arrival in early 2007, misconduct related to 


 substance abuse has reached ''unacceptable'' levels, despite 


 a toughened regimen of education, designated-driver programs 


 and penalties.



 ''The rate of illegal drug use is slightly up; the rate of 


 alcohol is more than slightly up,'' General Oates said. ''I'm 


 not a teetotaler. I'm not against people drinking. I'm 


 against misconduct.''



 By last March, he had seen enough. He ordered the base's 


 newspaper, The Fort Drum Blizzard, to publish the names and 


 photographs of all soldiers charged with drunken driving. To 


 date, at least 116 have appeared. Half were combat veterans 


 who had returned in the last year, the general said, though 


 others may have deployed earlier.



 Most returning soldiers readjust after a few months. But 


 the general estimated that at least 20 percent turned to 


 heavy drinking




 or drugs--typically ''the first signal that there is 


 something wrong.''



 Across the military, the precise dimensions of the problem 


 are elusive, especially since the different branches largely 


 keep their own statistics. Many studies do not distinguish 


 between servicemembers who have seen battle and those who 


 have not. What is more, behavior becomes far harder to track 


 when servicemembers leave the military.



 Even so, a variety of surveys, as well as anecdotal 


 evidence and rising alarm in many military communities, 


 indicate growing substance abuse among recent combat 


 veterans. Of particular concern are members of the National 


 Guard and reserves, as well as recently discharged 


 servicemembers, who can lose their bearings outside the 


 camaraderie and structure of the military.



 In the Army, which has the bulk of the troops in Iraq and 


 Afghanistan, the Pentagon's most recent survey of health-


 related behavior, conducted in 2005 but released last year, 


 found that for the first time in more than 20 years, roughly 


 a quarter of soldiers surveyed considered themselves regular 


 heavy drinkers--defined as having five or more drinks at 


 least once a week. The report called the increase--to 24.5 


 percent in 2005, from 17.2 percent in 1998--''an issue of 


 concern.''



 Perhaps the best monitor of recent combat veterans'' mental 


 health is the Pentagon's postdeployment survey. Reflecting 


 concern about heavy drinking, the latest report, published 


 last November, introduced a question about drinking habits. 


 Of the 88,235 soldiers surveyed in 2005 and 2006, three to 


 six months after returning from war, 12 percent of active-


 duty troops and 15 percent of reservists acknowledged having 


 problems with alcohol.



 While drug use decreased substantially after 1980, when the 


 military cracked down, it has increased slightly in the Army 


 and the Marines since 2002, the behavioral survey said. 


 Experts say that, in some cases, troubled combat veterans are 


 more prone to use drugs after leaving the military.



 In general, studies find that drinking is more prevalent in 


 the military than in the civilian population; the behavioral 


 survey reported that heavy drinking among 18- to 25-9-year-


 old men in the Army and the Marines was almost twice as 


 common as among their civilian counterparts.



 Heavy drinking or drug use frequently figures in what law 


 enforcement officials and commanders at military bases across 


 the country say is a rising number of crimes and other 


 examples of misconduct involving soldiers, marines and recent 


 veterans.



 ''Alcohol and drug use starts a cascade of worse 


 problems,'' said Dr. McCormick, the task force member, who 


 recently retired as director of mental health for the state 


 veterans affairs system in Ohio. ''It's like throwing 


 gasoline on fire.''



 Most cases involve low-level misconduct. From 2005 to 2006, 


 for example, ''alcohol-related incidents''--mostly drunken or 


 reckless driving and disorderly conduct--more than tripled at 


 Fort Hood, Tex., according to information released to the 


 Pentagon task force. Other statistics showed a similar 


 pattern throughout the Army, a task force member said.



 The Marines, filled with young men drawn by the corps' 


 hard-charging image, have traditionally had the military's 


 highest drinking rates. While the behavior survey showed a 


 slight decrease in heavy drinking after 2002, it showed an 


 increase in binge drinking. The Marines also reported a rise 


 in alcohol-related incidents.



 Sometimes, though, substance abuse becomes a factor in 


 major crimes. This year, a New York Times examination of 


 killings in this country by veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan 


 found that drinking or drug use was frequently involved in 


 the crimes.
