---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `22e321e161c43688f43a7e70b30d3a08`
`Mr. LEAHY — 1 April 2009`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am in strong support of the amendment 
offered by Senators Kerry and Lugar which I and many other Senators on 
both sides of the aisle have cosponsored to restore $4 billion to the 
international affairs function of the budget.

This amendment would not have any effect on the top line for 
nondiscretionary spending. It is budget neutral.

We have two choices. Cut $4 billion from the President's Fiscal year 
2010 budget for national security and diplomacy programs as the budget 
resolution would do, or restore those funds, as the Kerry-Lugar-Leahy-
Durbin amendment would do, and which both the Secretary of State and 
the Secretary of Defense have said is vital.

This $4 billion is an insignificant amount when it comes to having an 
appreciable effect on the deficit over the long term, but it will pay 
immediate dividends in restoring United States influence around the 
world where it is desperately needed.

The difference we are talking about is whether to freeze funding for 
international assistance programs at the 2009 level, or to step up to 
the plate and fund the initiatives President Obama, and Members of 
Congress of both parties, have recognized are urgently needed.

These funds will be used to put the United States back in the 
driver's seat on climate change. They will support the increases for 
Pakistan and Afghanistan that the Secretary of Defense says are 
critical elements of our counterterrorism strategy there. It is not 
just a military strategy. It is also a diplomatic and development 
strategy.

These are the funds to support that. They will support treatment for 
millions of people infected with HIV/AIDS. Lifesaving drugs that 
represent the best of America.

Years from now, countries in Africa, South Asia, the Middle East, and 
Central Asia will remember what we do today. China is expanding its 
influence


around the globe. We can step back and watch that happen, or we can 
show once again that the United States is going to lead by example.

Not very long ago we had that chance with Russia. But rather than 
look for ways to put past hostilities and distrust behind us and embark 
on a new relationship, we sought to take advantage in ways that 
exacerbated that distrust.

Today the relationship is a far cry from what it could and should be, 
and it will require significant investments in diplomacy to rebuild it.

We can lead in the world, we can build new alliances and work to 
solve conflicts, promote stability and develop new markets, or we can 
turn inward. That is the choice we face with this amendment. We are 
part of a global economy. We face grave challenges, from al-Qaida in 
Pakistan to drug cartels in Mexico. Climate change threatens the 
survival of species in ways that may profoundly affect our own survival 
not fifty million years from now, but within the lifetimes of our 
children and grandchildren.

This is no time to trifle with the need for American leadership. I 
thank all Senators for supporting this amendment.