# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2764, THE  DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `22e455f0d9ad284409400f2681095e10`
`Mr. PENCE â€” 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the rule and in 
particular opposition to this ominous omnibus bill that comes to the 
floor of the Congress today.

I am tempted to say to the American people, Here comes the bus, but 
I'm not going to get on, because this legislation represents a 
fundamental failure of the legislative process.

Eleven separate appropriations bills balled into one, the sheer 
tonnage and weight that has been visible on the


screens of America tonight give evidence that this government is 
broken, and this budget process is broken; 3,500 pages, 34 pounds, and 
Members of the minority have had, at this very hour, roughly one day to 
review its contents.

This legislation, which we'll consider under this rule, will cost 
approximately $515 billion, including $44 billion designated as so-
called ''emergency spending,'' and over $10 billion in other budget 
gimmicks being used to artificially lower the cost.

Now, I want to commend President Bush and the men and women of good 
will in this Congress who have worked to lower the cost of this 
legislation from its House- and Senate-passed versions. There have been 
improvements on the margin. There has been lipstick placed on this pig, 
but it's still a pig; and the American people are soon to find that 
out.

Let's take, for example, this legislation includes $31 billion for 
military operations in Afghanistan for protective equipment for troops 
overseas, but it does not include one dime to fund our troops in harm's 
way at this hour serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom. I say to my 
patriotic colleagues in the other party, that is unconscionable that we 
would bring before this Congress a spending bill which, for some 
purpose, serves some audience far to the left of this Chamber, I 
suspect, who are not including a single cent for our soldiers in harm's 
way.

And this omnibus contains over $11 billion in so-called ''emergency'' 
and ''contingency'' spending. Let me favor my colleagues with some of 
the emergency provisions in this bill: $20 million for salaries at the 
Farm Service Agency, apparently salaries of employees at the Farm 
Service Agency unanticipated; $8 million for salaries at the Department 
of Justice, legal activities and salaries also at DOJ; salaries and 
expenses for everything from the U.S. Marshal Service to U.S. 
Attorneys. I mean, Mr. Speaker, where is the surprise in the emergency 
of finding out we have employees at the Department of Justice? And my 
own personal favorite here, we have a legislative emergency in the form 
of $100 million for Presidential security at political conventions. 
This is the so-called ''emergency spending'' which those who will point 
to this legislation as having come in at or near the President's 
numbers will not include these provisions. And there are so many more 
that will be explored in the months ahead.

This bill is also chock-full of the very worst kind of pork barrel 
spending. Let me say, Mr. Speaker, I requested earmark projects for my 
district, and there are some necessary infrastructure projects in this 
legislation for eastern Indiana. I brought every single one of them 
through the ordinary committee process in the light of day. But there 
are, we must assume, thousands of so-called ''air-dropped'' earmarks in 
this legislation which will not come to light until after this 
legislation is signed into law.

So it's what we don't know in this legislation that frustrates me the 
most; 24 hours, I say again, Mr. Speaker, 24 hours to review 3,500 
pages and 34 pounds.

Twenty years ago, President Reagan came to this podium and said these 
words: ''The budget process has broken down. It needs a drastic 
overhaul. With each ensuing year, the spectacle before the American 
people is the same as it was this Christmas,'' he said, ''budget 
deadlines delayed or missed completely, hundreds of billions of dollars 
worth of spending packed into one bill, and the Federal Government on 
the brink of default.'' So said Ronald Reagan before this Congress two 
decades ago. The more things change, the more they seem to stay the 
same.

I was a harsh critic of reckless and wasteful spending when my party 
was in control; and I rise, respectfully, to register the same dissent. 
We can do better, Mr. Speaker. The American people expect from this 
Congress, whatever its management, whichever party, to do better than 
to pile into a heap our unfinished business the week before Christmas 
and send it all to the President without the light of day.