# FEDERAL RAILROAD SAFETY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `22e61409c50b735bc65c145356dd4145`
`Mr. HARKIN — 29 September 2008`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I come to the Senate floor with a heavy 
heart and a clear purpose. Last Thursday would have been the 56th 
birthday of a great actor, a devoted father and husband, Christopher 
Reeve. Many Americans got to know Christopher Reeve when he put on that 
blue and red uniform of Superman and acted in so many Superman roles. 
He was also on television and stage. So we always think of Christopher 
Reeve as the first Superman.

Then, in May of 1995, Christopher Reeve was involved in an equestrian 
accident. He was riding a horse and got pitched off the horse. He 
suffered injuries to his spinal column, starting in his neck, which 
left him paralyzed from the neck down.

In the years following the accident, Christopher Reeve not only put a 
face on spinal cord injury for so many, but he motivated 
neuroscientists around the world to conquer the most complex diseases 
of the brain and the central nervous system.

Even before I met Mr. Reeve in 1998, I was a big admirer. Of course, 
I liked Superman movies. Then I watched what he did after he had been 
paralyzed. After the accident, he could afford the very best doctors 
and nurses, the best caregivers and therapies. He could have just 
withdrawn into himself, focused on his own well-being which was a full-
time job in and of itself.

Christopher Reeve made a different choice that defined him as a great 
human being. He chose to become the man whom I first met in 1998 when 
he first testified before the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on 
Labor, Health, Human Services, and Education on which I was a ranking 
member at that time. I had been chairman before and then Senator 
Specter was ranking. In 1998, Senator Specter was chairman of that 
subcommittee. Mr. Reeve came on a mission to give hope and help to 
other people with disabilities and thus became a kind of real-life hero 
to people around the world.

Later on, I got to know Christopher Reeve as a friend, someone who 
had an impish sense of humor, a great smile, was warm and personable. 
He spent all of his waking time, days, thinking about and getting 
information about spinal cord injuries, research that had been done, 
how it was being researched here and in other parts of the world, at 
the same time finding time to direct a movie.

Christopher Reeve began to inform me and others on the committee that 
the kind of research we were doing into spinal cord paralysis was 
disjointed; it was not well put together. Then he went on a mission to 
think about, with others--with scientists and researchers and those of 
us in the Senate and the House--how we might accomplish pulling this 
research together in a more unified structure.

In 2002, I first introduced the Christopher Reeve Paralysis Act with 
bipartisan cosponsors. The bill has passed the House twice, but we have 
never succeeded in passing it here.

As I said, it is a bipartisan bill. It addresses the critical need to 
accelerate the discovery of better treatments and one day a cure for 
paralysis. As I said, currently paralysis research is carried out 
across multiple disciplines with no effective means of coordination or 
collaboration. Time, effort, and valuable research dollars are used 
inefficiently because of this problem. Families affected by paralysis 
are often unaware of critical research results, information about 
clinical trials, and best practices.

This bill will improve the long-term health prospects of people with 
paralysis and other disabilities by improving access to services, 
providing information and support to caregivers and their families, 
developing assistive technology, providing employment assistance, and 
encouraging wellness among those with paralysis.

In August of last year, the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
Committee cleared this bill for full Senate consideration. Two months 
after that, our colleagues in the House passed the bill unanimously by 
voice vote. Yet for the last 12 months, this bill has languished in the 
Senate, as I understand it, due to the objections of one Senator, my 
friend, the junior Senator from Oklahoma. At least that is what I am 
told. I could be corrected, but that is what I am told.

In the past, I have heard the Senator from Oklahoma question our role 
in promoting health legislation because he has said sometimes in the 
past that too often we get caught up in one cause or another pushed by 
a celebrity and other worthwhile causes get left behind because they 
don't have someone famous out there pushing for them. I guess once in a 
while I might agree with that point. But even though this legislation 
has Christopher and Dana Reeve's names behind it, it was really written 
for the thousands of ordinary Americans living with paralysis and 
spinal cord injuries and their families and friends who pushed the 
cause of improved research and treatment.

I want to read a couple of stories of Americans today. One story 
belongs to Marilyn Smith of Hood River, OR. She is one of the many 
paralysis advocates who volunteer their time through the Unite to Fight 
Paralysis organization. She took the time recently to share her story 
with me. I want to read a portion of it for the Record. Here is what 
Marilyn said:




 Paralysis doesn't just happen to an individual, it happens 


 to a family. In December of 2002, our son became a 


 quadriplegic when a careless driver failed to tighten the lug 


 nuts on one of his wheels. It came off and flew into our 


 son's pickup, shattering his cervical vertebra. Our family 


 was thrown into physical, emotional and financial chaos. We 


 have done the best we could after this calamity, but our 


 lives will never be the same. As parents, our greatest wish 


 before we pass on is to see our son's health restored. We 


 have traveled from Oregon to Washington, DC, for 4 straight 


 years to lobby for passage of the Christopher and Dana Reeve 


 Paralysis Act, a well-crafted piece of legislation with 


 bipartisan support that will make a measurable difference in 


 our lives.


I think Marilyn's story underscores the tremendous cost paralysis 
imposes on families. The Spinal Cord Injuries and Illness Center at the 
University of Alabama Birmingham has done a lot of work to quantify 
that cost. I believe their findings might surprise some of my 
colleagues.


According to the Spinal Cord Injury and Illness Center, the first-
year cost of an injury to the C-1, C-4 vertebrae is upwards of 
$683,000, with costs in each subsequent year averaging out at more than 
$120,000. Think about that for a moment. That figure represents a cost 
of personal care attendants, medical treatment and therapy, 
transportation, and all the necessary modifications made to one's home.

Leo Halland of Yankton, ND, knows this cost all too well. He has been 
living with paralysis for the past 32 years. He, too, has a story to 
tell. I will read a short selection from a letter he sent over the 
weekend. He said:




 I know there is much in life I will never understand, and 


 now near the top of that list are: One, how a single Senator 


 can stop a piece of good legislation; and, two, how some of 


 his colleagues can support those efforts. Failure to act on 


 this legislation is doing great medical harm.


I just have to say, frankly, I am surprised there continues to be an 
objection to moving this bill. I negotiated this bill with my 
Republican colleagues before it was marked up in the


HELP Committee in July of last year. During the course of those 
negotiations, we received through Senator Enzi, who is the ranking 
member of that committee, specific requests to, one, remove 
authorizations for the titles related to the National Institute for 
Health Research. In the interest of getting legislation passed, we 
accepted this change. We removed the NIH reporting provisions in 
response to concerns that they were duplicative of reporting 
requirements in the NIH reauthorization legislation. So we took that 
out.

We responded to all of the feedback from the Department of Health and 
Human Services and the NIH by incorporating both substantive and 
technical changes they wanted.

At that point, we were assured there were no more objections, and the 
bill passed out of our committee with no amendments and no objections. 
We just passed it out of committee.

So given all of the efforts we made to meet concerns raised by 
Senators on the other side of the aisle, and given that Senators had an 
opportunity to file amendments at that time in the committee but chose 
not to, I had every expectation that the bill would pass the full 
Senate. Instead, it continues to be held due to one Republican 
objection. This bill is long overdue for passage.

When I introduced the bill 17 months ago, Dr. Elias Zerhouni, the 
Director of the NIH, spoke at a rally in support of the bill. They had 
suggestions on some changes which we did. But he spoke in support of 
the bill. Here is something Dr. Zerhouni said that day:




 So really as the Director of an institution that is 


 committed to making the discoveries that will make a 


 difference in people's lives, I feel proud and I feel 


 pleased. But at the same time, I'm humbled. I'm humbled 


 because in many ways [the Christopher and Dana Reeve 


 Paralysis Act] is the harbinger of what I see as the 


 combination of the public, the leadership in Congress, and 


 the administration and government in our country that is 


 absolutely unique, and humbled because at the same time, I 


 know it contains a lot of expectations from us. And I am 


 at the same time confident that we can deliver on these 


 expectations of NIH, with our sister agencies throughout 


 the government. But the key thing I would like to provide 


 is an expression of commitment. At the end of the day, if 


 you do not have leaders and champions that look at a 


 problem in its entirety, today in the 21st century, you 


 cannot make progress.


That was Dr. Zerhouni. I wholeheartedly agree with him. You have to 
look at it in its entirety. Progress is vital in science and biomedical 
research. It is also important in the legislative process. As Senators, 
of course, we have a duty to ensure due diligence in considering 
legislation. That is one of our responsibilities. But to keep this bill 
from getting an up-or-down vote, despite strong support from both sides 
of the aisle, and the fact that the House passed it unanimously, I am 
not certain that is exercising due diligence. I don't know what it is 
called, but I don't know if that is due diligence.

Brooke Ellison of Stony Brook, NY, is another passionate advocate. 
She was paralyzed from the neck down when she was 7 years old after she 
was struck by a car while walking home from the first day of school. 
She is now 25 years old. In the years since her accident, she has 
graduated from college--Harvard--with an undergraduate degree and a 
master's degree, and founded the Brooke Ellison Project for those 
facing paralysis and adversity, and she asked me to pass along these 
words.




 I have seen up close and in person how very quickly any one 


 of our lives can change and we find ourselves facing 


 challenges unlike anything we may have expected. Eighteen 


 years ago, I learned this lesson in a personal and profound 


 way. Yet each day, an increasing number of people find 


 themselves in similar circumstances, and we need to do all we 


 can to alleviate their suffering. Christopher Reeve lived his 


 life as a testament to helping to reduce the challenges 


 people suffering from paralysis face. The Christopher and 


 Dana Reeve Paralysis Act is critical to changing the fate, 


 and sometimes even dire conditions, that millions of people 


 face. And the events in my life have shown me all too clearly 


 how essential it is to be passed.


I wish to be clear; by putting this bill on hold, we are also putting 
Brooke Ellison and Leo Hallan and other people living in paralysis on 
hold. It tells the more than 400 Iraq war veterans who have returned 
with spinal cord injuries that they are on hold. It puts the needs of 
Bethany Winkler from Yukon on hold. She has been paralyzed for 7 years, 
since falling in an accident. She has taken the time to come to 
Washington to lobby for this legislation. I met Bethany in the past, 
and I can testify to what a passionate and effective advocate she is 
for the cause of paralysis research and care.

Although we often find ourselves on different sides of the table, I 
wish to say publicly I respect the fact that Senator Coburn believes 
strongly this legislation inappropriately grows the size of the Federal 
Government. I have heard that stated. I see my friend is on the floor, 
and he can state it if he wants. But if that is the case, I wish to say 
I disagree with that assessment. I am on the Appropriations Committee, 
sure, but I am on an authorizing committee as well, and this 
legislation appropriates no money for paralysis research. It doesn't 
appropriate any money for care or quality-of-life programs. It simply 
says we authorize funding for programs. So they still have to be funded 
through the regular appropriations process.

So I come down to the floor with renewed hope. This past week, the 
Senate passed several bills by unanimous consent with new authorization 
for Federal spending. Two of those bills, the Drug Endangered Children 
Act and the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act, which were 
also being held up, and again were authorizations for appropriations, 
received unanimous consent and were passed. So I have come to the floor 
today, and as soon as I finish, in another page or two, I will ask 
unanimous consent that the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act 
pass.

But I am going to give two more cases. One is from Donna Sullivan, 
another of the many concerned advocates for paralysis research and 
care. Donna is fighting not for herself but for her son, and here is 
what she said:




 Three years ago, my son was the lone survivor of an 


 airplane crash. His injuries were extensive, and my heart 


 literally felt as if it was broken. After numerous operations 


 and procedures, under the care of well-trained doctors in 


 three States, he has overcome all of his injuries except for 


 one, it is his spinal cord injury, which waits for science to 


 move forward and allow him further recovery.



 Together, we have attended research symposiums and visited 


 our legislators in Washington, DC, to share our story and the 


 promise that research holds. It is our hope that the Senate 


 will join others who understand the potential and release 


 this bill. When you understand the potential paralysis 


 research holds, it is difficult to ignore, and it is 


 difficult for me to accept that some do.


Christopher Reeve spoke up passionately for people such as Donna 
Sullivan and her son. Christopher Reeve's untimely death in 2004 robbed 
the paralysis community of its most passionate and effective advocate. 
As we know, his widow, wife Dana, continued her husband's quest until 
her untimely death in 2006 of lung cancer. Across the country, 
thousands of ordinary Americans, whose lives have been touched by 
paralysis, have taken up Christopher and Dana Reeve's advocacy work at 
great cost to their health and wealth.

Well, I have one last story I have to share with you. It has to do 
with a young man--a big kid; strong. His dad had been in the Navy in 
World War II and imbued that in each of his kids. Each kid went in the 
military--different branches. But this one kid, Kelly--big Irish kid--
he went in the Navy. He went in the Navy. He went to work on an 
aircraft carrier. He was one of the launch people, an enlisted guy on 
the deck of an aircraft carrier.

They were cruising off the coast of Vietnam. Unbeknownst to Kelly, on 
one of the planes--it was an A-6 Intruder--the pilot had run up his 
engine. The intakes on an A-6 are on the bottom. They are big intakes. 
He was not supposed to have run up his engine, but he ran up his engine 
to 100 percent of power. Kelly, doing his job, got too close to the 
intake and got sucked into the intake. He had a hard hat on--his Mickey 
Mouse ears and his hard hat on--and evidently the pilot, through later 
investigations, saw something going wrong with his engine, heard a thud 
in his plane, and pulled the power back. Someone saw Kelly's feet 
sticking out of the intake, and they got people up there and rushed him 
down to the infirmary on the ship and then put him in some kind of 
traction thing, got him off the ship, and got him back to the States.


I will never forget the day my sister called me about Kelly. It was 
my nephew. When my sister called me, I was a


Member of the House of Representatives, and she called me up to see 
what I could do to help. She was extremely distraught, as you can 
imagine. Kelly was 20 years old and had his life ahead of him. So I 
went to work, as any Congressman would, for my family, and I got him in 
at the VA hospital out in California, near Stanford, and that is the 
first time I flew out to see him. He was quadriplegic at the time. He 
couldn't move anything.

I can remember walking in there and seeing this kid--and I don't mean 
to be overly maudlin about this, but you see, I was a Navy pilot. I 
used to fly my plane around a lot of times, and these kids always 
looked up to their father because he was in the Navy and I was in the 
Navy. I was a Navy pilot. I still have pictures of my jet and young 
Kelly as a kid sitting in the cockpit of my jet with my helmet on 
dreaming that someday he, too, would do something such as that. So I 
kind of felt a lot of responsibility for this because I had encouraged 
him to get into the Navy, to go into aviation, to do things with 
airplanes.

I will never forget the first time I saw him lying in that hospital 
bed at Stanford--I think that is right, the Stanford VA hospital--and 
the look on his face. I mean, this kid was scared. He couldn't move 
anything, and he was wondering what was going to happen to him.

Well, he had good medical care, and the good news is that over some 
years he actually got the use of his arms back, through sheer will and 
determination. And through those years he then went back to school. I 
remember how tough it was for him, using a wheelchair to get around on 
campus. That was before the Americans with Disabilities Act. That was 
before we had ramps and widened doorways and things such as that. This 
was in the 1980s when he was going to school.

I remember his father building him ramps and stuff so he could get in 
and out of places and learn how to live. Well, that happened 28 years 
ago--28 years ago. Now, the good news is Kelly is alive and well. He 
lives by himself, in his own home, and has a van that has all these 
automatic lifts that put him into the van so he can drive himself 
around. He can't use the lower half of his body, but he can drive 
around.

He started a small business and he is very self-sufficient. I saw 
Kelly--well, whenever the Democratic Convention was--because he lives 
in Colorado, and so I went to see him. We were talking about this and 
that, a lot of things, and I can't begin to tell you what a profound 
effect Christopher Reeve had on my nephew's life. It seemed as though 
all of a sudden there was someone like him, who was big and strapping 
and full of life, with a lot of energy, and then one accident and that 
is it. So I could see Kelly could identify with someone such as a 
Christopher Reeve, a healthy, strong, vibrant man, and suddenly one 
accident and that is it. So he followed him. Kelly is on the computer, 
on the Internet, and he follows research all the time. During this 
period of time in the late 1990s, he became more and more encouraged by 
what Christopher Reeve was doing and how he was pulling all this stuff 
together. He kept asking me about it: What are you guys going to do? 
Are you going to pass this? Are you going to do something about 
paralysis research? Kelly follows this today to the nth degree.

Then Christopher Reeve passed away, and then his wife. I saw my 
nephew Kelly out in Colorado last month. Once again he asked me, he 
said: Are you going to get that bill passed or not?

I said: I don't know. I will try. I am still trying.

Of course he knows all about this. He knows it passed the House. He 
follows all this. He just wondered what the problem was.

I said: A person has a hold on it.

Can't you bring it up, do this?

I don't know if we can bring it up or not--go through cloture and 
debate and all that kind of stuff. I don't know. He reminded me it 
passed the House. I said: I know that, it passed the House unanimously. 
It passed out of our committee.

So I told Kelly when I saw him in August: We will come back in 
September and I will try another go at it and we will see what happens. 
I hope we get it passed.

Here we have the medical community, in the personage of Dr. Zerhouni, 
saying this does what we should be doing, bringing everything together, 
coordinating it. It authorizes appropriations but doesn't appropriate 
any money.

I can tell you, it is not just because there was a famous person 
behind it. There are people such as my nephew Kelly all over the United 
States who are wondering, are we going to pursue this? I don't like to 
give anyone false hope. My nephew is a realistic person. He has lived 
with this for 28 years now. But he still believes strongly that we 
ought to be pushing the frontiers and that we ought to be doing 
everything we can to promote research, of course--obviously into 
paralysis, because that is what affects him. If anybody wants to talk 
about this and what needs to be done, he can talk about it at greater 
length and in more depth and understanding than can I.

I was not going to do this until my colleague from Oklahoma came to 
the floor. I see him here. All I say is I hope we can move this bill. I 
am hopeful, after looking it over and understanding we do not 
appropriate any money, and looking at what we did with a couple of 
other bills earlier, we can get this bill through. I will be glad to 
engage in any colloquies such as that.











 Unanimous Consent Request--S. 1183


I am constrained to ask unanimous consent the Senate proceed to the 
immediate consideration of Calendar No. 326, S. 1183, the Christopher 
and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act, that the committee substitute amendment 
be agreed to, the bill as amended be read a third time and passed, and 
the motions to reconsider be laid upon the table, with no intervening 
action or debate.