---
---

# A TRIBUTE TO CORPORAL CHASE DINDO AND ALL OF LIMA COMPANY FOR HELPING  TO SAVE THE LIFE OF A LITTLE IRAQI GIRL
## `22ea54705047e22a0aee01680e243c3d`
`Mr. BONNER — 14 March 2008`

---


Mr. BONNER. Madam Speaker, it is with great pride and pleasure that I 
rise today to pay tribute to Corporal Chase Dindo of Mobile and his 
Alabama-based Marine Corps Reserve unit for helping save the life of a 
two-year old Iraqi girl, Amenah.

In December of last year, one of the Marines of the Montgomery-based 
unit, Lima Company of the 3rd Battalion, 23rd Marines discovered little 
Amenah was suffering from a rare life-threatening heart problem.

Lima Company stepped into action making arrangements with Children's 
Hospital in Nashville, Tennessee, for Amenah to have the life-saving 
surgery. The hospital and surgeons donated their facilities and 
surgical skills at no charge. The unit took Amenah and her mother to 
the Jordanian border where the two were flown to the United States.

Amenah's three-hour operation was a success, and she will spend six 
to eight weeks in the United States recovering before returning with 
her mother to their home in Haditha, Iraq.

I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing Cpl. Chase Dindo and 
the entire Lima Company for their selfless actions to save the life of 
a little girl. I know I join their families and friends in extending 
our heartfelt thanks for their outstanding service to the United States 
of America--they are true American heroes.
