# TRIBUTE TO SERGEANT MICHAEL F. PARANZINO
## `22eff697c8af363189d7948e542980c4`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 18 November 2010`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Sergeant 
Michael F. Paranzino, from Middletown, Rhode Island, who lost his life 
on November 5, 2010, of injuries sustained while serving his country in 
Kandahar, Afghanistan.

Sergeant Paranzino was the loving husband of Lindsey (Christopher) 
Paranzino and the proud tither of Maxton and Logan of Fort Drum, New 
York. He was assigned as a cavalry scout to the 1st Brigade Combat 
Team, 10th Mountain Division.

Born in Newport, Rhode Island on December 4, 1987, Sergeant Paranzino 
was the son of Francis ''Butch'' and Melane C. Paranzino and the 
brother of Daniel F. Paranzino of Middletown, Rhode Island. He was a 
2006 graduate of Middletown High School. While he was a student at 
Middletown High School, he made trips to Nicaragua in January of 2005 
and 2006 with the Northeast Volunteer Optometric Services to Humanity 
to provide humanitarian support to the disadvantaged and poor in 
Catarina and Nandasmo, Nicaragua. These trips provided life-expanding 
experiences for Sergeant Paranzino and were the precursor to many of 
the values he believed in along with the leadership skills that he 
displayed as an Army Sergeant.

A year after his graduation from Middletown High School, Sergeant 
Paranzino enlisted in the Army and was a cavalry scout with the 1st 
Squadron, 71st Cavalry Regiment. After his basic training he was 
stationed at Fort Drum, New York in 2008 and was deployed to the Middle 
East as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom just a few months later. In 
2010 Sergeant Paranzino was sent to Afghanistan to support Operation 
Enduring Freedom. He was recognized with more than 10 decorations for 
his military service just after three-plus years, including the Army 
Achievement Medal, the Meritorious Unit Commendation, the Army Good 
Conduct Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, the Afghanistan 
Campaign Medal, the Iraq Campaign Medal, the Global War on Terrorism 
Service Medal, the Army Service Ribbon, the Overseas Ribbon, the NATO 
Medal and the Combat Action Badge.

Today, as we celebrate the life and accomplishments of this 
exceptional Rhode Islander, my thoughts and prayers are with Sergeant 
Paranzino's family and friends.

We are all deeply indebted to Sergeant Paranzino for his service and 
his sacrifice.
