# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `22fb002323808c001a7e380f07684f13`
`Ms. SNOWE â€” 4 January 2007`

---


Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, I rise today as a proud cosponsor of S. 
3988, the Lane Evans Veterans Healthcare and Benefits Improvement Act 
of 2007. After serving with Lane Evans in the House of Representatives 
for over a decade, I am honored to help introduce legislation that 
serves as a fitting tribute to a man whose unfaltering efforts on 
behalf of our nation's veterans went unmatched.

I also applaud Senator Obama for introducing this vital legislation 
at a time when over 600,000 courageous men and women have returned from 
combat in both Iraq and Afghanistan. In the past, Senator Obama and I 
have worked in a bipartisan manner to bolster the military's ability to 
detect and treat traumatic brain injury, and most recently, we have 
fought to reduce the backlog of claims at the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, VBA. Once again,


I thank Senator Obama for his continuing resoluteness and advocacy for 
our veterans.

Since the beginning of conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, nearly 1.5 
million brave Americans have deployed overseas to take part in the 
global war on terror. Of those 1.5 million Americans, at least 184,400 
have already received medical treatment from the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, VA. It is time the VA and the Department of Defense, DOD, have 
the capability to provide incoming veterans with timely and efficient 
medical treatment and postdeployment services. For too long now, 
provision of these critical services has been hampered by a lack of 
resources and policy restructuring.

In 2005, the Government Accountability Office revealed that the VA 
faced a budget shortfall of $3 billion, due to the agency's inability 
to correctly gauge the benefits for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. As a 
result of spending shortfalls, the VA was forced to dip into 
contingency funds that could have compromised the funding for other 
vital veterans programs. In order to remedy these unacceptable 
deficiencies within the veterans' benefit system, this legislation will 
significantly enhance the ability of the DOD and the VA to accurately 
track veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan, by creating a data registry 
that will hold a comprehensive list of VA health care and benefits use. 
I remind my colleagues that a similar data system was established in 
1998 for Gulf War I Veterans, and has been invaluable in assessing the 
necessary budgetary planning for our injured veterans from that 
conflict.

However, not all combat wounds are caused by bullets and shrapnel. 
Several studies have indicated that due to the nature of warfare in 
Iraq--with its intense urban fighting, terrorism and civilian combat--
may cause a spike in the prevalence of post traumatic stress disorder, 
PTSD. According to the Veterans' Health Administration, as of October 
2006, of the 184,524 Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi 
Freedom veterans who have sought care from the VA, 29,041 have been 
diagnosed as having probable symptoms of PTSD.

I strongly believe that we have a commitment to ensure that veterans 
with PTSD receive compassionate, world-class health care and 
appropriate disability compensation determinations. It is imperative 
that we do all we can to detect, diagnose, and treat our veterans 
suffering from PTSD as quickly as possible, in order to help our 
veterans and their families move beyond the psychological trauma of war 
and lead healthy, productive lives.

This legislation's proposed data registry will further assist the VA 
with ongoing medical research into mental health, traumatic brain 
injury, and many other conditions. This legislation will also require 
the Department of Defense to conduct in-person physical and mental 
health exams with every service member 30 to 90 days after deployment 
to war zone, in order to ensure that potential cases of PTSD are 
identified and treated in a timely manner. By making the exams 
mandatory, the stigma associated with mental health screening and 
treatment can be eliminated. Additionally, multiple deployments to 
combat zones may factor into a higher susceptibility to PTSD, stressing 
the necessity for mental screening prior to redeployment, in order to 
ensure that no servicemember experiencing symptoms of PTSD is returned 
to duty without treatment. If the VA and the DOD continues its current 
mental health screening policy, nondisclosures of PTSD symptoms will 
continue to deter early intervention and future VA mental health 
services.

This legislation addresses the difficulties associated with PTSD 
symptoms that develop over prolonged periods of time. Currently, the 
window for new veterans to obtain health care at the VA is 2 years. 
However, in many circumstances, it takes years for PTSD symptoms and 
other problems related to mental health to emerge. Therefore, this 
legislation will extend the window for VA mental health care from 2 
years to 5 years, ensuring the necessary mental health treatment for 
all veterans who are struggling to recover from the traumas of war.

Further, this legislation will take large steps towards improving the 
transfer of military and medical records in order for veterans to 
receive the health care and benefits they deserve. This bill requires 
DOD to provide each separating service member a full electronic copy of 
all military and medical records at the time of discharge. By 
facilitating the enhanced use of electronic records, veterans will be 
assured the proper access and management of their required care. 
Currently, a lack of swift access to military records and medical 
records has hampered the VA's ability to treat veterans in need of care 
in a timely and effective manner.

According to a December 2006 GAO report, while verifying veterans 
claims of PTSD, regional VA offices are unable to directly access and 
search an electronic library of medical and service records for all 
service branches, and therefore, must rely on a DOD research 
organization, whose average response time to regional office requests 
is nearly 1 year. Clearly, such a processing delay is not only 
inexcusable, it is potentially harmful to the veteran and his or her 
family. Increased access to electronic records will allow the VA to 
quickly identify the occurrence of stressful events or experiences that 
may lead to the necessary treatment for PTSD.

Finally, this legislation will also require the VA to provide equal 
briefings and transition services for all service members regarding VA 
health care, disability compensation, and other benefits, regardless of 
status. Often times, guardsmen and reservists receive limited 
transition assistance and employment training, largely due to their 
accelerated demobilization. Thus, this legislation will provide 
equitable and fair transition services for all returning veterans, 
regardless of their service branch, component or military status.

I have nothing but the utmost respect for those brave Americans who 
served in uniform with honor, courage, and distinction. The obligation 
our nation holds for its veterans is enormous, and it is an obligation 
that must be fulfilled every day. Since the attacks of September 11, 
millions of brave American men and women have answered our nation's 
call to service. Congress must now do everything in its power to answer 
our veterans' call, to ensure that they receive the medical care and 
treatment that they rightly earned and rightly deserve.

Once again, I am pleased to join Senator Obama in introducing S. 988, 
because I believe it is crucial to the welfare of our Nation's 
veterans, and I urge my colleagues to voice their support.