---
---

# None
## `2304e1da53258226845662f9b3eb91fc`
`Mr. REID — 18 June 2009`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, we will soon vote on a motion to waive a 
point of order. In the last Congress, we heard our colleagues say 
things such as:




 I cannot understand how we can claim to support our troops 


 and yet put them in increased jeopardy as a result of our 


 failure to act.


Here is another:




 It is so irresponsible to tell these young men and women 


 who are serving in uniform with the orders of their Commander 


 in Chief that you're not going to give them the necessary 


 ability to defend themselves. In my view it's terribly 


 misplaced priorities.


And another:




 It is time to put politics behind us and support our troops 


 with the funds they need.


Each of these quotes were spoken by Republicans when a Republican was 
in the White House. Today, with a Democrat in the White House, some 
Republicans threaten to stand in the way of our efforts to support our 
troops. Our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines have done everything we 
have asked of them and more. As always, our troops and commanders have 
gone above and beyond. The least we can do is give them the basics they 
need to fight this war against terrorists. This bill does that. It 
gives our brave troops, including more than 1,000 men and women from 
the State of Nevada, the resources they need to do their jobs and to 
return home safely. It provides $80 billion for the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

In this important piece of legislation, we are also dedicating 
billions of dollars to make sure we are prepared for and to respond to 
a potential flu pandemic. We must be ready. There is no other 
opportunity than this legislation to be ready by this fall. We are also 
dedicating billions of dollars in this legislation to strengthen the 
security


along our borders, and we are also dedicating billions of dollars to 
support counterterrorism programs both at home and abroad. This is very 
important.

But in this bill are not merely numbers. This legislation also 
contains our commitment to strengthen our military, rebuilding our 
relationships with key allies around the world and reducing key 
security threats.

Rather than restoring our standing in the world, some Republicans are 
standing in the way, period. I repeat, rather than restoring our 
standing in the world, some Republicans are standing in the way. They 
are threatening to block this entire bill and the good it does because 
of one small but significant part of it. That small but significant 
part is actually a tremendously important and good program. It is 
called cash for clunkers.

This is a program that has been tested in other places. In Germany, 
it has been tremendous for their economy. It helps our economy and our 
environment. Here is how it works. If you trade in your car over the 
next 4 months, we will give you up to $4,500 toward a new car that is 
more fuel efficient. That sounds pretty good. Everybody benefits, the 
environment and the economy. Those who oppose this may not think it is 
a worthy goal, but they should not hold hostage the equipment and 
training our troops need because of this small provision in the bill. 
They should not let less than 1 percent of this entire important bill 
sink the whole thing, but that is exactly what some of our colleagues 
are planning to do.

Are they doing it to embarrass the President? Are they doing it 
because they don't think the troops need the resources to fight those 
two wars? Why are they doing this?

Because everyone should understand, if this point of order is not 
waived, this bill is finished. The House had a difficult time passing 
this legislation because the House got no support from Republicans. The 
question is whether these Senators still agree we must never walk away 
from our troops or if they only believe it when their party is in the 
White House. I sincerely hope Senate Republicans do not follow the lead 
of the House Republicans. Out of 435 Members of the House of 
Representatives, 5 Republicans voted to support our troops. They had a 
different excuse in the House. What they said was: We are not going to 
do this because there is a small amount of money in there for the 
International Monetary Fund. There hasn't been a word raised in this 
body over that because it is so important. It is supported by Democrats 
and Republicans over here, that particular provision in the 
supplemental.

In the Senate, they have raised another issue, cash for clunkers. 
Some are saying: Well, cash for clunkers isn't bad, but I don't like 
this version of it. I think we could do a version that would be more 
environmentally friendly and so, as a result, I am voting against it.

Everyone should understand, especially those who care about our armed 
services--and I know the American people support them 100 percent--all 
the American people should understand, if there is not a waiver of this 
point of order, the troops will not get their money. Secretary Gates 
has been very good. He has not sent out any blue slips telling them 
they are going to lose their jobs, to civilian employees first, and 
then the pink slips to others that they will lose their jobs 
permanently. But that time is fast approaching. We cannot simply 
revitalize this bill in a matter of a few minutes. We have to do it 
today. There are provisions in this bill that are important to our 
standing in the world. We have to support our troops.

I, personally, with 5 children and 16 grandchildren, am a little 
concerned about the flu pandemic that all scientists, with rare 
exception, are telling us is going to hit in the fall. We are spending 
this money at this time so we can be ready for that and have shots that 
people can get to stop them from getting sick or not getting as sick.

Our troops, each and every one of whom volunteered for duty, are the 
last people who should be caught in the crossfire of political 
gamesmanship.

I hope the point of order will be waived and that the money for the 
troops will be on its way in a matter of hours.