# VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN IN AFGHANISTAN
## `2307ed72f5fa06f92954c2b167f33683`
`Mr. KERRY — 24 July 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I wish to speak about women in Afghanistan. 
After months of collaborative discussions between women's advocacy 
groups and the Government of Afghanistan, the Elimination of Violence 
Against Women Act was just signed by Executive decree. I applaud the 
women who pushed for this bill, and those in the government who jointly 
prepared it. It represents transparency and collaboration between civil 
society and the government, something we should all congratulate. The 
bill will head to Parliament for final review when it reconvenes next 
week. It is my strong hope that Parliament review the law and pass it 
without delay, ensuring all protections remain intact. This bill 
provides real criminal sanctions for violence against women, and puts 
specific responsibilities onto the shoulders of government ministries. 
When we think of the abuse and repression exercised against women 
during the Taliban regime, it is hard not to feel encouraged by the 
very existence of this act, let alone its prospect for enactment.

Many, quite plausibly, will say that this law cannot be fully 
implemented anywhere in Afghanistan, as access to justice for women in 
the courts and in traditional councils is all too often out of reach, 
and because of the societal discrimination that women still suffer. 
Justice must be accessible to women in Afghanistan on an equal basis to 
men, or Afghanistan will never tap into the true, vast potential of the 
women of that country. This law is a giant step for the entire country 
in rejecting violence against women, but now the Parliament must take 
the final step to pass the law as it is, with all protections intact.

I must also mention the controversial Shia Personal Status Law that 
was also signed by Executive decree. It was drafted without 
transparency, and aimed to codify degrading practices that exist in 
some households and communities. Unlike the Elimination of Violence 
Against Women Act, civil society was not included during the drafting 
and debate of the law in Parliament. While women's civil organizations 
were able to force some amendments to the bill just before the 
president's signature, they were not able to


fully cleanse the bill of some harmful provisions. Now that the bill 
has been signed, I call on the Government of Afghanistan to communicate 
widely and openly about the final substance of the law.

The timing of this is vital. Afghanistan is about to go to the polls 
for presidential and provincial elections, and all eyes will be 
watching how and to what extent women participate. Women's access to 
the polls is imperative, and the value of their vote must be considered 
by the candidates.
