# HONORING MILITARY SUPPORT GROUPS
## `230eb5902e961dc44f0fb8e053e741c0`
`Ms. SUTTON — 15 September 2008`

---


Ms. SUTTON. I thank the gentlewoman for her leadership on this issue, 
and I thank the gentleman from Oklahoma for his eloquence in speaking 
to it as well.

I rise today, Mr. Speaker, in support of House Resolution 1200, a 
resolution I introduced to honor some of the unsung heroes of our 
Nation. They are our military support groups.

All across our great Nation and throughout the world, our troops and 
their families are making incredible sacrifices for our country. Since 
2001, more than 1.7 million members of the Armed Forces have been 
deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan. And many of these brave men and women 
are being sent back for numerous tours of duty, and each time they 
represent our country with honor and a proud sense of duty. And we must 
never forget the incredible service they provide for our great Nation.

We, as Members of Congress, must do everything in our power to ease 
the burden their service places on them and their families.

One incredible source of support and assistance for our troops and 
their families are military support groups. All across our country, 
servicemembers and their families and friends have formed these crucial 
support networks.

Military support groups offer a variety of important services to 
members of our Armed Forces and their families. From providing 
financial assistance, employment assistance and tax return preparation, 
to offering counseling and prayer groups, sending care packages and 
writing letters, support groups serve a vital purpose within the 
military family and within our communities.

My bill, House Resolution 1200, honors the dedication and outstanding 
work of military support groups across this country for their steadfast 
support of the members of our Armed Forces and their families.

I'm very proud, Mr. Speaker, that one of these support groups, Family 
and Friends Connected, is based in Akron, Ohio, in my congressional 
district. This group was started by one of my constituents, Saundra 
Hunt. With a daughter in the Air Force and a son in the Marine Corps, 
Saundra knows more than a thing or two about the need to support our 
military families. And so, on November 9, 2001, Saundra established 
Family and Friends Connected to bring military families together. And 
on the second Friday of every month, military families and friends from 
all over northeastern Ohio come together to support one another. They 
come from Akron and Barberton and Canton and Cleveland; they come from 
Cuyahoga Falls, and Copley and Dover and Hartville, Hudson, Stow and 
Tallmadge and Wadsworth. They come together to find common support.

I want to take a moment and recognize Saundra, who took her own 
family's experience and used it to make a positive impact on the lives 
of others in the same situation. Saundra dedicates a listening ear to 
military families, and is available to them at every hour, day or 
night. Because of her endless commitment and compassion, there is an 
obvious love for her within the group.

I've had the honor and privilege of attending one of their meetings, 
and I can attest firsthand to the dedication and the uplifting 
camaraderie of those who participate in Family and Friends Connected.

Saundra and the Family and Friends Connected are just one example of 
the many support groups across the country that have provided endless 
amounts of time, energy and compassion to our military families. These 
are people who truly understand what military families go through, and 
they provide very real comfort and support for one another.

The kindness and understanding these groups provide to our 
servicemembers and to each other is nothing short of inspirational. It 
is such an important service for our Nation's military families and 
yet, Mr. Speaker, they ask for nothing in return. They do it because of 
a love of country, a respect for service, and an understanding of the 
sacrifices that our military families so selflessly make. Their 
unwavering emotional and material support helps to fortify our 
military, allowing them to carry out the missions our Nation asks of 
them.

We, in Congress, must always honor our brave servicemen and women, in 
word and in deed. Likewise, we should


honor those who dedicate themselves to their support. That's why I 
introduced this important resolution to honor these amazing groups. 
They did not ask for any recognition for their service, but we can all 
agree that they deserve to be honored for all they do for our military 
families and for our country.

I ask for your support of this critical resolution honoring our 
military support groups.
