# AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009
## `23231c2324b9ab98c6871d5542f76428`
`Mr. KERRY — 7 February 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I will only take 2 minutes and then yield 
to a colleague. I think it is good to have this back and forth, 
frankly, because it is a way to shed a little more light on these 
things.

First, I did not say, in quoting Mr. Steele, that individual 
empowerment is not important. I didn't say that we are not for it. I am 
quoting him:




 Individual empowerment, that is how you stimulate the 


 economy.


That is his program.

Forty-two percent of this bill is tax cuts. I have voted for 
countless tax cuts in the Senate. I was one of the authors of zero 
capital gains for new investments. I believe in tax cuts. We have 
terrific tax cuts in this bill. But clearly, there is no discussion in 
Mr. Steele's comments about what we ought to be spending it on, how 
much we ought to be spending, how spending will make a difference.

Secondly, on the deficit doubling in the last couple years, yes, it 
did. No. 1, because we have a war in Iraq and a war in Afghanistan, a 
war in Iraq that many of us here believed spending $12 billion a month 
wasn't worth, and the American people believed wasn't. But 
nevertheless, that is one reason. Secondly, we passed a stimulus. We 
passed it outside of the budget process, because nobody wanted to pay 
for it. We needed to begin to stimulate the economy already.

Third--and the Senator knows this--we did a fix to the alternative 
minimum tax so that millions of Americans would not be taxed 
unwittingly and inappropriately. We tried to pay for it. I signed on to 
Senator Conrad's amendment. We had a vote on the floor of the Senate. 
We lost, because the Republicans decided they didn't think we should 
pay for the alternative minimum tax fix. That is why we doubled the 
deficit.

We had pay as you go in the Senate. We put it back in place to 
restore fiscal responsibility, and it is important to put that in the 
proper context.