# IRAQ
## `23257f2b30be65cc5d2ae4f7ee995033`
`Mr. ENZI — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I will make a few comments about what is 
going on around here. I am not sure what has gotten into the water 
around here, but something strange has happened over the last couple 
days. Well, maybe it is not so strange, or even unusual, and that is 
unfortunate. What I am talking about is a sort of snowstorm, a 
whiteout--the people in Wyoming will know what I am talking about--
except this whiteout isn't made of snow.

Bear with me while I describe our last vote, the one we did last 
night. It was cloture on a motion to proceed to a measure that says we 
should have a plan to fight al-Qaida and that we should basically put 
that plan out for public comment. That might strike people outside 
Washington as a little odd, and it should. Doesn't our military already 
have a plan? Yes, it does. Why would we want to tell al-Qaida how we 
plan to defeat them? Good questions. Good points.

The fact that the motion to debate the proposal passed overwhelmingly 
might further leave people scratching their heads. Senators, the 
majority of whom, I would venture to say, do not want the proposal to 
become law, voted to waste the Senate's time debating this measure. 
Why? Is it because debating this will actually help us to defeat al-
Qaida? Is it because debating this will make our Nation more secure? 
No, it would not.

This is all happening at a time when we have an urgent need to work 
on solutions to the problems just about every one of the American 
people worry about. Health care is at the top of the list. Congress 
needs to wrangle with spiraling health care costs. Medicare is going 
broke. Social Security is following suit a little bit later. There are 
education measures on the table right now that we need to finish. Our 
economy begs for positive action. We have a budget problem in Congress. 
But the Senate came to a decision. On a vote of 89 to 3 last night, 
this body decided that instead of working on these problems I 
mentioned, we needed to debate a bill few of us want to ultimately 
approve. That is wrong. The American people did not elect us to play 
''gotcha'' politics. They want to see action on real problems. They 
want to see results--positive results.

I voted against debating on this ill-begotten proposal because 
Congress needs to be doing the work the people sent us here to do.

National defense is of utmost importance to our Nation. Without a 
strong national defense, we would not have the free country we have. I 
strongly support our troops. I thank them every day and pray for them 
and their families every night. I do all in my power to


see that they have the support and the resources to do their job. Their 
lives, and ultimately our way of life, depend on it; it depends on 
them. But this proposal we are debating now doesn't help them. Our 
military strategists, our leaders in the field, do not want this 
legislation.

Of course we need a plan to defeat al-Qaida in every corner of the 
world where this wretched terrorist group hides. We need to focus on 
the terrorists and defeat them at every turn. But is it Congress's role 
to insist on a plan and then share the plan with al-Qaida? That is 
ultimately what this legislation would do. If Congress forces the 
administration and our military to write this plan according to 
Congress's specification, then Congress is going to want to see the 
plan to ensure it meets Congress's requirements. We all know Congress 
cannot keep a secret. If you tell the enemy your strategy, then your 
strategy will not work. This is a bill that is fundamentally flawed at 
the outset. I voted not to debate the bill. I was one of three, but a 
bill not worth doing is a bill not worth debating.

Just before September 11, 2001, I was given the opportunity to serve 
on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. I was the ranking member of 
the Subcommittee on International Operations and Antiterrorism. It was 
during August that I was assigned to that. So in September, since I was 
the newest person on the committee and the least ranking, a lot of 
people said: How did he get on that committee? It wasn't important 
until after September 11, 2001--or at least we didn't place that kind 
of importance on it. Through that role, I was given the opportunity to 
work directly with other countries at the United Nations on ways to 
stop terrorism. I am an accountant, so I was delighted to be a part of 
the group that said one of the answers was to concentrate on following 
the money. It made a huge difference and it continues to make a 
difference. Countries that will never publicly admit to helping in the 
hunt for terrorists have helped. I know countries peer pressured other 
countries into helping with the fight against terrorism. Terrorists 
were caught, they were prosecuted, and some were executed. More 
sophisticated versions of this plan to fight terrorism are still in 
operation today. But we should not disclose the plan because that would 
make them worthless.


The Senate wants additional reports. Why? Congress has already 
mandated reports on the National Security Strategy of the United 
States, the National Defense Strategy of the United States, the 
National Homeland Security Strategy of the United States, the National 
Military Strategy of the United States, the Quadrennial Defense Review 
Report, the National Military Strategic Plan for the War on Terror, the 
National Military Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction, the 
National Strategy for Victory in Iraq. Does that sound like plenty of 
work for the Pentagon?

I want you to know the Pentagon is already doing what this bill wants 
us to do. We do need a plan. We have a plan. We cannot make that plan 
public without allowing the enemy to figure out how to combat every 
article in it. Why are we having this debate? Well, I know we are 
having this debate partly to place emphasis on the fact that we need to 
get the FISA legislation passed. Daily, we are missing opportunities to 
know what al-Qaida is doing and planning. We were able to do that until 
about a week ago. Congress could easily approve the FISA bill. It 
passed out of this body by a significant majority. The House needs to 
pass it and send it to the President. What does that bill do? One of 
the things it does is make terrorists almost as accountable as drug 
dealers. Yes, we have stronger laws in this country for drug dealers 
and the way to interdict that than we do for terrorists, without having 
the FISA bill.

What do the American people want Congress to do? They want us to 
improve their ability to access quality health care. They want us to 
have the capability under FISA, but they want us to concentrate on 
those areas that we have specific jurisdiction on, not just checking up 
on other people to see if they are getting their work done but checking 
up on ourselves to see if we are getting our work done. I think the 
economy, which includes health care, is the biggest issue the American 
people are interested in. Are we debating that? No. We are debating 
something I think we already have had 36 votes on in various forms, all 
of which failed. If you try something 36 times and it doesn't work, 
maybe you ought to move on to something else. I am suggesting health 
care is one of those issues we ought to be working on and that we could 
work on and that comes under our jurisdiction and we have direct 
responsibility for it. Or maybe education. I know the people of America 
want better education for their kids. They expect us to have as much as 
possible in place that will expedite that, that will work with the 
parents, the teachers, the administrators, and the communities to make 
sure our kids have the best job opportunities in the world. They want 
them to be able to have jobs and afford a home and have food for their 
family. They want a retirement system that helps them to be secure when 
they finish working.

That is why I voted against debating this bill. We are not here to be 
nonresponsive and nonproductive by taking nonactions. Let's act. Let's 
sit down together and come to an agreement on what we can do to make 
health care better for this country. Let's talk about what we can do to 
improve education in this country and then let's make it happen. Let's 
spend the Senate's time on real legislation of substance--ones we are 
supposed to solve and that we have the jurisdiction to solve and ones 
we have the ability to solve and ones we have the desire to solve. I 
have been working with people on both sides of the aisle on a number of 
bills that are solvable--maybe not to perfection, but hardly anything 
here winds up with perfection. They can be solved with 100 percent 
agreement across the aisle on the 80 percent of the issues that we 
agree on. That would be real progress for America.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.