# RECOGNIZING AND COMMENDING ALL WHO PROVIDE SUPPORT TO FAMILIES AND  CHILDREN OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
## `2326df192c7957e895144d55b8e02d47`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I might consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Concurrent Resolution 
181, a resolution authored by Congressman Solomon Ortiz, a dedicated 
member of the Armed Services Committee who is a proven friend of 
servicemembers and their families.

This resolution commends a large group of selfless and dedicated 
people, many of whom are volunteers, in organizations that provide 
support to the families and children of deployed Members of the armed 
forces.

As a 31-year veteran of the Army Reserve and National Guard, and as 
the proud father of four sons in the military, I know firsthand the 
rewards of service protecting American families and learning valuable 
skills.

Our military families face extraordinary demands, stresses and 
challenges related to the service of their loved ones. Every soldier, 
sailor, airman and marine understands the challenges they will face as 
well as the sacrifices their families must also make. These include 
extended deployments, risk of injury and death, frequent relocations, 
long and unpredictable hours, and the unfamiliar customs and lifestyles 
of foreign lands.

Many military families have multiple family members, which 
substantially outnumber the servicemembers themselves. According to a 
recent Army report, there are more than 1.8 million family members 
compared to 1.3 million active duty personnel. Beyond the statistics, 
however, is the reality that supporting and meeting the needs of 
military families is a matter of military readiness.

Every branch of the military as well as the Department of Defense 
provide significant resources to the spouses and children of members of 
the Armed Forces. Much of the excellent support is provided on and 
through military installations.

Actually, most military families do not live on military 
installations. Nearly two-thirds of the active duty Army family members 
live off post, and for virtually all the families of National Guard 
troops and reservists who reside in civilian communities, there is the 
challenge of ensuring access to the support they need, particularly 
during extended periods of mobilization and deployment.

To ensure that military families get the proper support wherever they 
live, numerous nongovernmental organizations have sprung up. This 
extraordinary community of volunteer and nonvolunteer groups seek to 
ease the challenges and promote the extraordinary opportunities of 
military life in many ways.



For example, some of their efforts include providing essential 
extracurricular activities for school-aged children, assisting new 
parents, building support systems in school districts not located on 
military installations, building bridges between local communities and 
military families to improve access to State and local services, and 
providing emergency and financial assistance.

Today's resolution, introduced by my colleague, Representative 
Solomon Ortiz, is a fitting way to celebrate and thank such 
organizations as Our Military Kids, Parents As Teachers, Kids Serve 2, 
Operation Homefront, American Military Family, and the Citizen Soldier 
Support Program, along with other volunteer groups who help families 
and children of deployed members of the Armed Forces maintain as normal 
a life as possible.

Again, as a 31-year veteran of the South Carolina Army National Guard 
and having a son, Alan, who served for a year in Iraq as a member of 
the Army National Guard, I have seen firsthand the many challenges and 
opportunities our National Guard troops and their families face.

Many members of my former unit, the 218th Brigade commanded by 
Brigadier General Bob Livingston and currently stationed in 
Afghanistan, have families and loved ones that can benefit from the 
types of assistance these organizations and programs provide.

I urge my colleagues to support House Concurrent Resolution 181 and 
to recognize and commend all the volunteers and others who help to take 
care of our military families and children. This new greatest 
generation deserves our support and assistance whenever and wherever we 
can be of service.

Additionally, with personal sadness, my sympathy to the families of 
our late colleagues, Paul Gillmor of Ohio and Jennifer Dunn of 
Washington State.

In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget 
September the 11th.

Mr. Speaker, I yield so much time as she may consume to the 
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Ginny Brown-Waite).