---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `2326c3e3ad19212e684fc69d5fc81027`
`Mr. LEVIN — 28 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. I commend Senator Kennedy on his leadership on the issue 
he has been talking about. We have a great responsibility, particularly 
to those people in Iraq who have helped us--translators, truck drivers, 
people who put their lives and the lives of their families on the line 
to help us. Whether you agree with American policy in Iraq--and I 
don't--whether you feel we ought to have gone there--I thought it was a 
mistake and so voted--we are there. People are putting their lives on 
the line to help our troops and us. We surely owe them an opportunity 
to become refugees if they otherwise qualify. Instead they run into the 
hurdles, barricades, and bureaucracy Senator Kennedy talked about. He 
has taken a very important lead on that issue. There has been a lot of 
bipartisan support on this effort.

There is another group I have been particularly worried about; they 
are religious minorities in Iraq, including Caldeans and Assyrians. 
These are Christians caught in the crossfire. That group is also given 
a special preference in this legislation which was adopted last night. 
It is a modest beginning toward carrying out our responsibility--and we 
bear some real responsibility as well as obligation--for some of these 
folks. It is a very small step. I wish to say Senator Kennedy has been 
relentless on this refugee issue. It was off the radar. Millions of 
people displaced inside Iraq, 2 million people outside Iraq who are 
refugees, 4 million Iraqis left their homes, half to other places in 
Iraq, half, roughly, to other countries in the region. These groups are 
so vulnerable. We must take action on it. We did last night. I thank 
and commend Senator Kennedy and Senator Brownback, who has been working 
with me particularly on these religious refugees, these minorities, 
and, of course, Senator Warner and the Republicans who worked to put 
this package together last night--all are entitled to our thanks but 
mainly Senator Kennedy.