# IMPLEMENTING THE 9/11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS ACT OF 2007
## `2335570467e105f97c7feab506e39c20`
`Mr. STARK — 9 January 2007`

---


Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of an important bill that 
will make America safer and more secure.

Today's legislation ends years of gridlock by finally enacting 
recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission over two years ago. H.R. 1 
will distribute homeland security grants based on risk, enhance nuclear 
non-proliferation, and improve education and economic development in 
Arab and Muslim countries.



Under the Republican regime, I was never one to jump on the homeland 
security bandwagon as Congress passed meaningless resolutions intended 
to frighten and divide the American people, repeatedly and falsely 
claimed progress was being made in Iraq, and conducted no oversight of 
the Department of Homeland Security. In contrast, the Democratic 
Congress is already taking meaningful action to improve American 
security. H.R. 1 is short on rhetoric and long on reforms and tough new 
security requirements.

The 9/11 Commission Recommendations Act contains common sense, 
bipartisan ideas. Opponents may argue that this bill is too ambitious, 
but they won't find a single provision inserted merely to instigate a 
political fight.

In the recent election, Democrats pledged to work across the aisle to 
pass substantive legislation that will affect the everyday lives of all 
Americans. This first bill meets that pledge. I urge my colleagues to 
heed the pleas of our constituents to stop posturing and start 
legislating by voting yes to make America more secure.