---
---

# HONORING CORPORAL JASON BEADLES OF LA PORTE, INDIANA
## `233d544c9b93c2674eaf837c79a95298`
`Mr. DONNELLY — 23 April 2007`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the sacrifice of 
Corporal Jason Beadles of La Porte, IN, who died on April 12, 2007, 
while proudly serving his Nation in Baghdad, Iraq. Jason risked 
everything in order to provide security and freedom to people halfway 
around the world.

Jason loved Johnny Cash, and he loved country music. He loved taking 
his nieces and nephews swimming. He loved fooling around and playing 
games with his brothers and cousins in the backyard. He loved 
motorcycles, and hoped to eventually turn this passion into a career. 
In many ways Jason always was, as his parents described him to a local 
paper, a big child at heart.

But Jason also loved his country. Moved by the horror of 9/11 and 
inspired by his father and grandfather, his brother and uncles, Jason 
joined the Army to serve his country. Where before there was the big 
child, now there was an honorable man.

And as an honorable man, Jason braved the dangers of war. In braving 
those dangers, Jason knew that he might face a day when he was called 
upon to pay the highest price demanded of any patriot. To the sorrow of 
the Beadles family and Jason's many friends, Jason did pay that price 
less than two weeks ago.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Jason Beadles into the 
official record of the United States House of Representatives in honor 
of his service to this country and the ultimate price he paid. We honor 
him today as a true patriot, and a true hero. He served his country at 
war so that, as a great President once said, ''freedom might live, and 
grow and increase its blessings.''

May God grant peace to those who mourn and strength to those who 
continue to fight. And may God be with all of us, as I know he is with 
Jason.
