---
---

# None
## `234e0eeb277654e8202bad5e1e6df084`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 13 May 2008`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Strategic 
Petroleum Fill Suspension and Consumer Protection Act and I am pleased 
to be a cosponsor of H.R. 6022.

As I travel around eastern Connecticut, I am confronted with 
families, business owners, truckers, farmers and fishermen who are 
struggling to maintain their lives and livelihoods.

Rising oil and gasoline prices are choking our economy. Food and 
consumer goods are rising as fuel prices rise, bringing additional pain 
to many people across our country.

In my hometown of Vernon, CT, the price of a gallon of gasoline hit 
$3.99. I am now hearing that some older gasoline pumps throughout the 
country are not even programmed to go above $3.99.

The bill before us today is simple, straightforward and effective. 
Instead of continuing to add 70,000 barrels of oil per day to fill an 
already stocked Strategic Petroleum Reserve, SPR, H.R. 6022 would 
instead, put that oil on the market to ease supply and price. And we 
should absolutely not increase the fill rate to 76,000 barrels per day 
like what the Administration has planned for later this summer.

Petroleum economists expect that gasoline prices could decline by as 
much as 24 cents if we stopped filling the SPR now. The SPR is 97 
percent full with over 700 million barrels of oil; in March 2003, when 
we went to war in Iraq, the SPR stood at 599 million barrels.

Diverting oil from the SPR is something that the President has done 
in the past. When he directed the Secretary to stop filling the SPR 
during the summer of 2006, he did so by saying, ''every little bit 
helps.'' At that time he further stipulated that the SPR was at a level 
that could weather any supply disruption during that summer. In 2006, 
the SPR stood at approximately 688 million barrels, less that what is 
there today.

I have written to President Bush several times asking him to divert 
oil from the SPR, but as yet, he has refused to heed my and my 
colleague's requests.

Our constituents need relief from rising oil prices and diverting oil 
from the SPR will achieve that goal. I urge my colleagues to support 
H.R. 6022.