# SPECIAL MEMORIAL DAY WORDS OF INSPIRATION FROM FALLUJAH, IRAQ
## `235350f54bd32b1ea9641db545bdc37d`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 30 July 2008`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Madam Speaker, Americans all over our Nation 
honored our fallen heroes for Memorial Day. We gathered in our national 
cemeteries, at veterans posts, and at town halls to say thank you to 
those who paid the ultimate price for freedom and to their families who 
suffered the greatest of losses.

Many forget that today's heroes also celebrated Memorial Day in the 
far corners of the world, including the deserts of Iraq and the 
mountains of Afghanistan. One such Memorial Day ceremony took place in 
Fallujah, Iraq, the site of some of the fiercest fighting and where 
many of our troops gave their lives.

Marine Corps Major General John F. Kelly led the service for our 
troops in Fallujah saying, ''There is something about looking out at 
real Americans who know the price paid for our protection, and the 
world's freedoms. Soldiers, sailors, airmen, Coast Guardsmen and 
Marines--heroes all.''

General Kelly knows personally of service and sacrifice, as he is on 
his third tour of duty commanding Marines in Iraq, his third tour away 
from his family. He also has two sons serving as Marines in Iraq.

General Kelly told his Marines, ''Our countrymen at home should be on 
their knees every day thanking God we still have enough young people in 
America today willing to take up the fight as our veterans did from the 
earliest days of our Nation. They should know that they are protected 
today by men and women as good as have ever served; as good today as 
their fathers were in Vietnam, and their grandfathers were in Korea and 
World War II. In this, my third tour in Iraq, I have never seen an 
American hesitate, or do anything other than lean into the danger and, 
with no apparent fear of death or injury, take the fight to the enemies 
of our way of life.''

Those who serve make many sacrifices including having to endure the 
horror of war. As General Kelly told his troops, ''You are all heroes 
and like many veterans throughout our history, many of us have endured 
things--sights, sounds and horrors--that will haunt us for the rest of 
our lives. I know I find great comfort that because I am here those I 
love and have sworn to protect will never have to deal with memories so 
terrible. I hope you who have seen these things have the same sense of 
purpose and balance when you relive the scenes of violence, and of 
decisions made. America's Armed Forces today know the price of being 
the finest men and women this nation has to offer, and pay it we do 
every day in Iraq and Afghanistan.''

Madam Speaker, following my remarks, I would like to include for the 
benefit of my colleagues the full text of General Kelly's letter to his 
Marines. It is from the heart and it is to the point of what every 
American service member and their families give to our Nation in the 
defense of freedom and liberty. General Kelly concludes his message by 
reading a letter no officer wants to write, that to the mother or 
father, husband or wife, brother or child of a fallen warrior. In this 
case it is to the mother of Jonathan Yale, a Marine who died protecting 
an Entry Control Point in Ramadi, Iraq from a suicide bomber driving a 
truck loaded with explosives. He and fellow Marine Jordan Haerter fired 
upon the truck until it exploded before breaching their security point. 
They both died during their job that day and in so doing saved the 
lives of 50 other Marines and countless Iraqi policemen.

General Kelly wrote to Jonathan's mother, ''I have 25,000 Marines 
under my care here in Iraq, and I fear for their lives every minute of 
every day as if they were my own. They are out there every day and 
every night patrolling the most dangerous places on earth for millions 
of people at home they do not even know. In times of weakness I wonder 
why they come, young men like Jonathan, why they come when no one makes 
them. When everything in our society seems to say ''what's in it for 
me,'' those like your son think of others--not themselves.''

Madam Speaker, it is my hope that every member of this House will 
read General Kelly's powerful and poignant words and take them to heart 
as we thank him and every American who goes into harm's way on a daily 
basis to protect us and our way of life.



























 May 25, 2008.






Words From a Memorial Day Ceremony in Fallujah, Iraq




 Fallujah, Iraq.--Major General John F. Kelly dispatched a 


 letter from Iraq stating that they held their Memorial Day 


 ceremony in Fallujah today and it was inspiring.



 ''Something about looking out at real Americans who know 


 the price paid for our protection, and the world's freedoms. 


 Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Coast Guardsmen and Marines--


 heroes all,'' Kelly said.





 The General continued: ''First, a few statistics to ponder. 


 There are twenty-five million living American Veterans. Since 


 General George Washington commanded the Continental Army, 


 forty-two million Americans have served the colors.



 A million have been killed in its defense. Another million 


 and a half wounded. When most of us think about military 


 cemeteries the first thought that comes to mind is Arlington 


 National in Washington, but there are many, many more in the 