---
---

# EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `235c09b6267a2d4a7064a2f00959216c`
`Mr. VISCLOSKY — 29 September 2008`

---


Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 3997.

Madam Speaker, in 1991, when Congress was considering repealing the 
Glass-Steagall Act and its regulatory framework, Representative John 
Dingell stated that repealing the Glass-Steagall Act would usher in a 
''golden age of thievery.'' Mr. Dingell has been proven correct.

As recently as September 15, President Bush was saying that 
''Americans have good reason to be confident in our economic 
strength,'' and that ''We have a flexible and resilient system that 
absorbs challenges and makes corrections and bounces back.'' Henry 
Paulson was saying that the current turmoil in markets and financial 
institutions ultimately would ''make things better.''

Now suddenly, we have a crisis. The Bush Administration would have us 
believe that this crisis is a sudden accident of nature, that it just 
happened, and could not have been prevented. This crisis is not an 
accident of nature.


The stage was set for this crisis with the repeal of Glass-Steagall in 
1999, but this crisis is not the result of a single error in policy. It 
is the direct result of years and years of deliberate and cynical 
exploitation by the captains of an unregulated industry, aided and 
abetted by an Administration that has willfully failed to enforce our 
laws and regulations, and that has selected individuals from the very 
institutions that need oversight to watch over their friends and former 
colleagues. This crisis is what happens when you set the foxes to guard 
the henhouse for 8 long years.

Now we are being asked to solve this crisis that has been building 
for most of the last decade in 7 days. But is the solution being 
foisted on us really going to help Main Street? Or is it simply meant 
to clean up Wall Street's mess, cloak the Bush Administration's abysmal 
failure to protect the people of this country from financial predators, 
and further enrich those whose covetousness has caused this problem? Is 
it going to help the people we represent, or is it going simply add to 
the profits of foreign banks?

Additionally, the Washington Post of September 27, 2008, reports that 
the six largest banks in the world are going to emerge from this crisis 
even larger than before. But what about the small community banks that 
have been following the rules and dealing fairly with borrowers, and 
who will bear the brunt of the financial dislocation caused by 
irresponsible financial giants? Why are we leaving our smaller banks to 
fend for themselves, while bailing out foreign banks? Why does the 
Royal Bank of Scotland, with $3.5 trillion in assets, need welfare from 
the American taxpayer?

The Bush Administration is rushing us into spending $700 billion 
without stopping to think things through, because there just isn't time 
for thinking. They say, trust us, this is necessary.

I've heard this before.

To me it sounds like what we were told about Iraq: that we had to go 
to war right away, because of the Weapons of Mass Destruction that 
Saddam Hussein possessed. Oh, that's right, they didn't exist. We were 
told ''Trust us.''

It sounds like what we were told when we had to pass the Patriot Act 
immediately to allow the government to eavesdrop on our private 
communications and to get the list of books you checked out of the 
library without probable cause; because there was a risk of terrorism. 
We were told that we had to fall in line quickly and trust the 
President.

Now it's ''trust us'' again. I didn't then, and I don't now!

What about the people we're supposed to be protecting? Contrast the 
President's urgency to help the minions of Wall Street with his disdain 
for the most vulnerable members of society: our children. During the 
last two years we asked President Bush to help provide health insurance 
to 4 million additional children in our country. He refused to do so-- 
twice--but now he says we have to bail out 4 million brokers in 7 days.

Where was the bailout when real people, the people I am here to 
represent, experienced financial crisis?

When LTV went bankrupt and thousands of people lost their jobs, 
President Bush didn't sound the alarm. All I know is that Richard Fuld 
of Lehman Brothers made $34,832,036 last year.

When many Bethlehem Steel retirees had their pensions cut, did 
President Bush provide a helping hand? All I know is that when Stan 
O'Neal retired from Merrill Lynch, his compensation package was worth 
$161.5 million.

When National Steel went bankrupt, did this Administration ask for a 
bailout? All I know is that Freddie Mac's Richard F. Syron made 
$18,289,575 in 2007.

When Republic Steel went bust under this Administration, they ceased 
to exist. On the other hand, AIG ceased to exist after a federal 
bailout, and no one asked Martin J. Sullivan of AIG to give back the 
$14,330,736 he was paid last year.

Let us also look ahead. This year, we are projected to have a deficit 
of $407 billion, on top of our national debt of $9.68 trillion. Our 
Inland Waterway Trust Fund will be broke by June of next year. Our 
Highway Trust fund needed an infusion of $8 billion this year because 
it was out of money. Medicare is slated to be insolvent in 2019. Today 
we're being asked to provide the titans of Wall Street $700 billion 
that we will have to borrow because no one wants to pay for it. Think 
of our poor children, and I mean that literally. And think about the 
next administration that will have to live with the consequences of 
this Wall Street bailout for its entire term.

It is clear that the problems in our current financial system are not 
temporary aberrations in an otherwise healthy system, and will not be 
easily addressed with a one-time infusion of cash. I know that I am not 
alone in saying this. On September 25, 2008, 200 independent economists 
who don't work on Wall Street, who don't work for the Federal Reserve, 
who don't work for the U.S. Treasury, signed a petition stating that 
this plan could create perverse incentives, that it is too vague, and 
that its long-run effects are unclear. Gary Aguirre, a former employee 
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, points out that as much as 
half of the $700 billion dollars could be wasted if there is not 
careful oversight over the valuation of the bonds we would be buying, 
resulting in a $350 billion gift to Wall Street.

Now, these economists and Mr. Aguirre may be wrong too, but they have 
a lot more veracity with me than the supposed experts promoting this 
bailout plan, who are from the same institutions that created this mess 
in the first place. Given the gravity and systematic nature of our 
problems, and given the lack of information with which we have been 
provided, I believe that Congress should be deliberate and conduct a 
comprehensive examination of alternative solutions.

Chairman Dingell was right: We are now in the golden age of thieves. 
And where I come from we put thieves in jail, we don't bail them out. 
We should reject this proposal.