# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `235eb5e35f3f8c27a0f43386e2df92c9`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation 
calling for the safe and responsible redeployment of U.S. troops from 
Iraq. Make no mistake about it: The administration's incompetence in 
planning and executing the post-war occupation has brought us to this 
point. It is now Congress's responsibility to stand up for the majority 
of American voices who seek an end to this war. This bill provides for 
a redeployment of our troops not only so that they will be safe, but 
also so they will be focused on securing our Nation, not caught in the 
crossfire of a sectarian civil war in Iraq. We must provide for our men 
and women in uniform and their families.

Some assert with no basis that the war in Iraq has made us safer 
when, in fact, the opposite is true. I am deeply troubled by today's 
report from the National Counterterrorism Center which states that al-
Qaeda is stronger now than at any point since 9/11. Terrorist cells 
capitalized on our preoccupations in Iraq to reestablish a presence in 
the Middle East and beyond. For years, the Administration has 
stubbornly insisted that Iraq is the central front of the War on 
Terrorism, but today's report clearly indicates just how damaging this 
war has been to our national security.

The President's progress report on Iraq issued today shows 
unsatisfactory improvement of security benchmarks. The report predicts 
a rise in insurgent violence in the coming months and an increased 
effort to disrupt life for Iraqis. In addition, there appears to be no 
improvement in eliminating the sectarian influences that have 
infiltrated Iraqi security forces. This is not acceptable. The 
administration has not delivered on its promises in Iraq and now we 
must move forward to establish a new direction. It simply is not fair 
to ask our soldiers and marines to continue to police someone else's 
civil war. It is especially irresponsible when considering the 
mountains of evidence from our own intelligence agencies pronouncing 
that this conflict cannot be solved by our military might alone. We 
must refocus our attention on the true threats to our Nation and our 
citizens.

Americans owe a debt of gratitude to our troops and their families 
for the sacrifices they have made during this difficult time. 
Servicemembers have had to endure difficult assignments and failed 
civilian leadership; but they have done so with honor and dignity. We 
must not forget the families who had to go without their loved ones for 
months at a time; the missed birthdays, baseball games, long nights 
away.

Mr. Speaker, the time for talking has ended; we must act, without 
delay, to redeploy our brave troops out of Iraq.