---
---

# ENCOURAGING DISPLAY OF THE FLAG ON FATHER'S DAY
## `2367e75f114d043b55d0b5b45ace96bd`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, thank you to Ms. Baldwin, the 
distinguished lady from Wisconsin for her generosity, and thanks to Mr. 
King and those on the other side of the aisle who are joining in this 
effort.

Mr. Speaker, without question, this is an extraordinary day, it is an 
extraordinary bill, is an extraordinary occasion. This is America, the 
greatest country in the world, and our flag represents greatness. To 
have now, finally, fruition, the manifestation of those precious words 
that were captured in the book of Exodus in the holy scriptures, where 
God said, the greatest and the first commandment in relationship of man 
to man were these words, ''Honor thy father,'' and then He said, ''and 
thy mother that thy days will be long in the land.''

Finally, today, on this day, June 11, in the year 2007, nearly 4,000 
years since those words were written down and inscribed, we are finally 
recognizing fathers as well as mothers by making sure the flag flies 
not just on Mother's Day but on Father's Day as well.

In the Hebrew language, the word for ''father'' is ''abba, ''and in 
the Greek language it is ''pater,'' and together those words mean the 
begatter, the progenitor, the source. But it also means provider and 
protector. It is no wonder why God in His wisdom said: ''Honor thy 
father'' and He put father first, and our mother, and now we are 
rectifying that situation.

I am very delighted to be here. This is an important bill, at an 
important time, because never before have we needed to stress the role 
of father, to be a good father.

It is a gaping hole in the fabric of America that fathers are not 
being fathers. Throughout so many aspects of our society, the American 
flag is one of the greatest symbols of our country. It is the 
representation of our freedoms, our values, our heritage as a Nation.

As Americans, our flag code instructs us to fly the flag every day, 
but especially on a number of very special significant Federal, 
religious, and cultural holidays. For many years, this list of 
occasions has included Veterans Day, President's day, Columbus Day and 
Mother's Day.

In the past several years, the list was amended to include the 
Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr.'s observation of his birthday as a 
national holiday, in honor of his outstanding contributions that he 
made in his lifetime to the advancement of the civil rights of all 
Americans.

But our flag code currently does not reflect the important roles of 
both men and women in the raising of children, and never before have we 
needed to emphasize that. It is time that this body officially 
recognizes the importance of American fathers by passing this important 
legislation today.

I am pleased that the House is considering H.R. 2356, for fathers 
play an extraordinary role in the development of children. 
Psychologists have emphasized that the presence of a father 
significantly influences a child's development in many ways. Infants 
not only distinguish between their father and strangers' voices within 
the first 4 weeks of life, but infants also recognize that a father is 
likely to engage in play time with them.

That first impression, to hear that strong comforting voice of a 
father, to balance that with the mother, is so critical in the 
development of our children. In later years, the relationship between a 
father and his children strongly influences success in the classroom, 
improves relationships with peers, and decreases the likelihood of 
negative behavior.

Is there any wonder that today in so many reaches and depths in our 
neighborhoods that there is negative behavior, and that is so much 
associated because there is not a father being a father in the home and 
in the life of that child.

The presence of a father is also a very important determinant in the 
child's socioeconomic potential later in life. Unfortunately, over the 
last four decades, research shows that there has been an unprecedented 
rise in this Nation in the number of fatherless homes, especially when 
they are first born, no father.

The National Fatherhood Initiative emphasizes that children from 
families with fathers are five times less likely to be poor. What is 
the answer to poverty? Getting the fathers who produce these children 
to be fathers, to take care of these children and be responsible for 
these children.

It is important for Congress to emphasize the significance of fathers 
and their socioeconomic value of the two-parent family as well, for 
studies also show that children are more likely to engage in 
recreational activities when their fathers are present. When fathers 
are involved in organized sports such as soccer, baseball and 
basketball, they are not only encouraging physical activity in their 
children, but also character development and sportsmanship.

Fathers also benefit for participating in their children's teams, as 
physical activity contributes to increased wellness and disease 
prevention in men. Fathers who are active in child rearing may also 
find themselves more nurturing toward their colleagues in the 
workplace, improving other aspects of their lives, by taking younger 
coworkers under their wing or volunteering more time to charitable 
organizations as well.

Schools across this country are developing innovative programs to 
reach out to parents and to especially get fathers involved in various 
and positive activities. In Kansas City, Missouri, the Reconnecting 
Education and DADS organization developed a specific reading program 
for fathers to use with their children.

The Kindering Center of Belleview, Washington, created a weekly 
support group for fathers of children with special needs. All over the 
country, schools are facilitating courses in responsible fatherhood, 
including education on child development, managing stress and good 
nutrition for their children and themselves.

I want to take just a minute here to acknowledge the important work 
of a similar organization in my own congressional district in Georgia. 
These men, these fathers are making a difference in the lives of our 
children by volunteering their time to improve the learning 
environment, not only for the children, but the many others who are 
within the school as well. They call it the DADS organization, DADS, 
whose acronym stands for Diverse and Dedicated Support, and it is a 
collective effort by fathers in my congressional district to serve as 
role models, not the athlete, not the rap guy, not the singer, not the 
superstars. The great role models for our young people need to be their 
fathers. By doing this today, this Congress is making this bold and 
much-needed statement.

This program places fathers of students in Clayton County, Georgia, 
middle schools to serve as hallway and classroom monitors to help with 
the discipline problems in our schools. Who better to do that, helping 
faculty to maintain order as students transition between classes 
throughout the day. This is where the violence sometimes starts. But 
with a parent there, particularly a father, a strong male presence, 
these men also serve as tutors when students need the help the most,


including Clayton County students to pursue their education and their 
dreams.

One self-employed volunteer at Lovejoy Middle School works while 
students are in class, and takes breaks throughout the day to monitor 
hallways and classrooms. That's a father.

Another volunteer, a wounded veteran from the war in Iraq, not only 
sacrificing his life in Iraq, where he was wounded, but he comes back 
home in Clayton County, Georgia, and walks the halls of Adamson Middle 
School with a cane. What a sight. These are heroes. No greater role 
model could we find than this wounded veteran who was wounded in Iraq, 
but comes back to help shape the lives of our young people in school.

He came so that he may assist the faculty in ensuring good discipline 
among the students. I am so honored, I am so full, I am overflowing up 
here today to know these fathers are making the ultimate difference in 
our communities and in my district. These men are not just fathers to 
individual students. They are dads to the children who lack the 
involvement of a father in their lives. The expansion of this program 
to elementary and high school underscores the success to reach out and 
encourage the involvement of fathers both inside the school and out.

In closing, I want to also note that many children from single-parent 
families are doing well. They are succeeding. But just think what it 
would be if they had both parents there, if they had been raised to be 
upstanding and successful members of our community. By passing this 
legislation today, we will show our support for the important roles 
that fathers, as well as mothers, play in preparing future generations 
in this country.

Honor thy father and thy mother so that thy days will be long in the 
land. We are doing that in Congress today, with extraordinary 
important, meaningful, and significant legislation.