---
---

# FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `2368f753a01ffca6661a006588d19cdd`
`Mr. GREGG — 8 May 2008`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I rise to speak briefly--not about the bill 
that is pending but about a bill that is somewhere in one of the 
hallways around here, which is the supplemental that is necessary in 
order to fund our troops in the field. That bill was supposed to be 
marked up today in the Appropriations Committee, but, regrettably, for 
reasons which are not totally clear to me but which are reasonably 
apparent--which is that the House has not yet gotten its procedures in 
order--the bill was not marked up, the markup was canceled. It was 
supposed to start at 2 o'clock.

I certainly hope we will mark up this bill. It is very important this 
bill be subject to regular order. It is a very significant bill, 
obviously, because it involves funding for our troops in the field. It 
is significant also because a lot of other matters which are extraneous 
to the issue of fighting the war and giving our troops the resources 
they need have been added to it on the House side, and even more, as it 
appears, maybe even being added on the Senate side. Thus, the Senate 
ought to have the right to work its will on the bill in the regular 
order, which includes a committee hearing where the various issues are 
aired and amendments can be made. Then when it gets to the floor, it 
should also be subject to amendments so the minority, especially, can 
have some input on the bill. Otherwise, the minority gets written out 
of the process, which is not constructive to the institution, and it 
certainly means we would have to defend our rights and probably oppose 
the bill on those procedural grounds that we have an obligation--that 
we as a minority basically have the sacred right of making a decision 
as to when amendments are to be offered or at least what amendments 
should be voted on.

Relative to a major piece of legislation such as this, we as the 
minority should have the right to amend it. If we decide not to amend 
it, that is our choice, obviously. But parts of this bill clearly need 
to be subject to amendment, and the minority has a right to be heard on 
that in the Senate, especially because that is the essence of the 
institution. The minority has the ability to participate in the process 
through the amendment process and through the filibuster process.



So I wish to speak to some of the amendments I would have offered had 
we met today which I happen to think are very appropriate to this bill 
and which are in the area of jurisdiction for which I have primary 
responsibility. I am the ranking member on the Foreign Operations 
Subcommittee which is the committee that deals with foreign relations, 
with the State Department, and with funding foreign activities. There 
are some very important issues which need to be addressed in this bill 
that are not addressed. This bill has a significant amount of money in 
it that will flow through the State Department which deals specifically 
with Iraq, with Afghanistan, and to some extent with other issues such 
as Mexico.

The first amendment I would have offered would have been language to 
correct what is an inconceivable bureaucratic snafu, in my opinion. 
That is the fact that Nelson Mandela--certainly one of the greatest 
leaders of the 20th century, who epitomized the movement for freedom 
and for equality in Africa but really for the world generally--is not 
allowed in the United States unless he gets a special waiver from the 
Secretary of State which allows him to come into the United States 
because of the fact that he was a member of the African National 
Congress and is a member of the African National Congress, having been 
the head of South Africa as that party rules there; and that party, due 
to the history of that party, has been caught in the bureaucratic 
framework of our laws and is designated as a potential terrorist 
organization, which is really ridiculous on its face.

The fact that Nelson Mandela cannot come into the United States 
because the organization he led, which delivered freedom and equality 
in South Africa, has gotten this designation due to its prior activity, 
it would be like saying the head of the Likud Party, which a number of 
Prime Ministers of Israel come from, because it at one time was an 
activist organization confronting British rule in Palestine at the 
time, the head of the Likud Party would not be allowed in the United 
States but would have to receive special exemption. It makes no sense.

So this language, which the Secretary of State totally supports and 
the Secretary of State is equally outraged by, would have to be 
changed. So working with the State Department, we have this language 
together, and we will go over it.

I understand at 2 o'clock we go into debate on the DeMint amendment, 
and I will be happy to yield the floor as soon as somebody arrives and 
wishes to debate. But I ask unanimous consent to be able to continue 
until such individual arrives.