# REAFFIRMING THE HISTORIC TIES BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE  NETHERLANDS
## `2375b799d906bfa20dd0ff586a1463ca`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 23 September 2009`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Berman and Ranking 
Member Ros-Lehtinen for their efforts in bringing this resolution to 
the floor today. Also I want to thank the committee staffs, in 
particular Rick Kessler and Amanda Sloat for their efforts.

I am very proud to be a Co-chair of the Congressional Dutch Caucus 
with my colleague Pete Hoekstra of Michigan with whom I have worked on 
a bipartisan basis to further strengthen relations between the U.S. and 
the Netherlands. I am also very pleased to join with him in introducing 
this resolution.

This year we celebrate the quadricentennial of American and Dutch 
relations. Four hundred years ago, the Dutch ship, the Half Moon, 
sailed up the Hudson River. In 1776, when Dutch cannons at Fort Orange 
on the Caribbean island of Saint Eustace saluted visiting American 
warships, The Netherlands became the first nation to recognize the 
newly born United States of America. Over the last 400 years, our 
people have built an enduring and productive cultural, commercial, and 
strategic partnership.

The fruits of that partnership and the contributions made by Dutch 
Americans to the culture, prosperity, and security of this country are 
well known.

The Dutch helped settle and found New Amsterdam, Brooklyn, and 
Harlem. Their descendents rose to be Presidents of the United States 
and to build the great fortunes that helped America attain its stature 
as the most prosperous and powerful Nation this world has ever known. 
And it is widely recognized that Thomas Jefferson used the Dutch 
Declaration of Independence of 1689 as a guide when writing the 
American Declaration of Independence.

On issues of security, Dutch and American troops have stood 
''shoulder to shoulder'' in combat and have partnered in global 
peacekeeping and stabilization efforts in Yugoslavia, Kosovo, Iraq, and 
Afghanistan.

The close cooperation and free and open communication resulting from 
our ties have strengthened our ability to confront with confidence the 
major challenges that the world faces today. Not only the stubborn, 
enduring challenges such as the unresolved crisis in Darfur or the 
efforts to establish a lasting peace in the Middle East, but also the 
warming of the planet and the ongoing threat of international 
terrorism. In the days and years ahead, the close historical bonds 
between the Dutch and Americans will be called upon to address these 
and other global challenges. Our continued cooperation will be key to 
our success.

The strength of our alliance and the endurance of our friendship have 
made both our countries stronger and the world more secure. I stand 
proudly today to honor and celebrate that friendship on the occasion of 
its 400th anniversary.