---
---

# ENERGY JOBS FOR VETERANS ACT
## `23a44b5bf29706c4698be50f6508e82f`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 22 March 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
H.R. 4592, ''To provide for the establishment of a pilot program to 
encourage the employment of veterans in energy-related positions,'' a 
bill sponsored by my colleague Congressman Teague from New Mexico.

H.R. 4592 increases job opportunities increase job opportunities for 
veterans by reimbursing employers for the cost of providing on-the job 
training for veterans in the energy sector through a new ''Veterans 
Energy Related Employment Program'' of competitive grants.

We have an obligation to ensure that our veterans can continue to use 
their expertise and talents that they have so ably used in serving this 
great nation. We can do this by showing our appreciation of the service 
of veterans and actively provide opportunities for them to work. These 
veterans have given great contributions and made incredible personal 
sacrifices so that all of us in this country might live in a safe and 
secure nation and world. It is time that we pay up and stand up for our 
heroes. For, what is the price of freedom?

As President Kennedy once said, 'The price of freedom is high, but 
Americans have always paid it.' And no one has paid a higher price than 
the brave men and women through the years who gave the last full 
measure of devotion to their country. Whether it is the ultimate 
sacrifice of life or the loss of limb or the loss of time with family 
and friends, we owe our veterans an enormous outstanding debt of 
gratitude.

From Bunker Hill to Yorktown, from Washington, D.C. to the Battle of 
New Orleans, from Bull Run to Gettysburg and Antietam to Appamattox, 
brave Americans gave their lives so that the nation might live. And 
from Alsace Lorain to Verdun, and Normandy to Berlin and Pearl Harbor 
to Okinawa, from Inchon and Correigador to Vietnam, Lebanon, Grenada, 
Kuwait, Afghanistan, and Iraq, Americans have nobly sacrificed their 
lives so that the world may live in freedom.

The debt of gratitude we owe to the soldiers, sailors, marines, and 
airmen who answered their nation's call and made supreme sacrifices can 
never be repaid. But the nation can follow President Lincoln's 
admonition to 'care for him who has borne the battle, and for his 
[family].' Indeed, it is the least we can do.

It is out of my profound respect and gratitude for all who wear and 
have worn the uniform of the United States that I continue to work so 
hard to pass legislation that will ensure that veterans receive the 
health care, job opportunities, housing assistance, and educational 
benefits they deserve. Caring for our veterans also means giving them 
our support when they need it.

Madam Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues to support H.R. 4592.