---
---

# HIGHER EDUCATION AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `23a5c42898010fdd22701d4ec551be9c`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 23 July 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I hope my friends in the university 
community will see in me someone who values higher education, who 
defends the importance of it in our society, who is working hard to 
keep our brainpower advantage in the world marketplace, who supports 
funding it generously, but who also believes that the greatest 
Achilles' heel of our system of higher education today is political 
correctness and a failure to take it seriously.

Colleges and universities are places where people ought to be allowed 
to say even outrageous things from the right and from the left. It is 
not a free and academic environment if you are only allowed to say 
outrageous things from the left.

Without belaboring that point, I conclude my remarks by expressing my 
appreciation once more to Senators Kennedy and Enzi. This is a first-
rate bill. It will help students. It will help our country. It has a 
great many good ideas in it, and I hope there are others in this body 
and in the House of Representatives who will join me in recognizing 
that along with political correctness, the greatest threat to quality 
of higher education, in my view, is overregulation by the Federal 
Government, and perhaps over time we can find some sensible ways to 
give it a little more freedom from this big stack of regulations that 
piled up over the years.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1


Remarks of Senator Alexander to Commission on the Future of Higher 










Education, Nashville, Tennessee




 Thank you for the time you are giving to this Commission's 


 work, and thank you for inviting me to testify.



 I've seen higher education from many sides, so I'm 


 sometimes asked, ''What's harder: being governor of a State, 


 a member of a president's cabinet, or president of a 


 university?''





 My answer is, ''Obviously, you've never been president of a 


 university, or you wouldn't ask such a question.''



 I have six suggestions for recommendations you might make:



 First, I hope you will urge the Administration that 


 appointed you to make the National Academies' ''Augustine 


 Report'' a focus of the President's State of the Union 


 address in January and of his remaining three years in 


 office.



 This 20-point, $10 billion a year report is the National 


 Academies' answer to the following question that Senator Pete 


 Domenici, Senator Jeff Bingaman and I posed to them in May: 


 ''What are the ten top actions, in priority order, that 


 federal policy makers could take to enhance the science and 


 technology enterprise so the United States can successfully 


 compete, prosper and be secure in the global community of the 


 21st century?'' The report was written by a distinguished 


 panel of business, government and university leaders headed 


 by Norm Augustine, former CEO of Lockheed Martin.



 As 2005 ends, we Americans--who constitute just five 


 percent of the world's population--will once again produce 


 nearly thirty percent of the world's wealth.



 Most of this good fortune comes from the American advantage 


 in brainpower: an educated workforce and our science and 


 technology. More Americans go to college than in any other 


 country. Our universities are the world's best, attracting 


 more than 500,000 of the brightest foreign students. No 


 country has national research laboratories to match ours. 


 Americans have won the most Nobel Prizes in science, and have 


 registered the most patents. We have invented the Internet, 


 the automobile and the computer chip, television and 


 electricity. From such advances have come a steady flow of 


 the world's best paying jobs.



 As one scientist has said, we don't have science and 


 technology because we're rich. We're rich because we have 


 science and technology.



 Yet I am worried that America may be losing its brainpower 


 advantage. Most Americans who travel to China, India, 


 Finland, Singapore and Ireland come home saying, ''Watch 


 out.''



 The Augustine panel found I am right to be worried:



 Last year, China trained 500,000 engineers, India 200,000, 


 while the U.S. trained 70,000.



 For the cost of one chemist or engineer in the U.S., a 


 company can hire five chemists in China or 11 engineers in 


 India.



 China is spending billions to recruit the best Chinese 


 scientists from American universities to return home to build 


 up Chinese universities.



 They also found signs that we are not keeping up:



 U.S. 12th graders performed below the international average 


 of 21 leading countries on tests of general knowledge in 


 math.



 In 2003, only three American companies ranked among the top 


 10 recipients of new U.S. patents.



 Of 120 new chemical plants being built around the world 


 with price tags of $1 billion dollars or more, one is in the 


 U.S. and 50 are in China.



 Among the Augustine Report's 20 recommendations were:



 Recruit 10,000 new science and math teachers with 4-year 


 scholarships and train 250,000 current teachers in summer 


 institutes.



 Triple the number of students who take Advanced Placement 


 math and science exams.



 Increase Federal funding for basic research in the physical 


 sciences by 10 percent a year for 7 years.



 Provide 30,000 scholarships and graduate fellowships for 


 scientists.



 Give foreign students who earn a PhD in science, 


 engineering and computing a ''green card'' so they can live 


 and work here.



 Give American companies a bigger research and development 


 tax credit so they will keep their good jobs here instead of 


 moving them offshore.



 Some may wince at the $10 billion a year price tag. I 


 believe that the cost is low. America's brainpower advantage 


 has not come on the cheap. This year, one-third of State and 


 local budgets go to fund education. Over 50 percent of 


 American students have a Federal grant or loan to help pay 


 for college. The Federal government spends nearly $30 billion 


 per year this year on research at universities and another 


 $34 billion to fund 36 national research laboratories.



 Just this year, Congress has authorized $75 billion to 


 fight the war in Iraq, $71 billion for hurricane recovery, 


 $13 billion in increased Medicaid spending and $352 billion 


 to finance the National debt. If we fail to invest the funds 


 necessary to keep our brainpower advantage, we'll not have an 


 economy capable of producing enough money to pay the bills 


 for war, Social Security, hurricanes, Medicaid and debt.



 Aside from the war on terror, there is no greater challenge 


 than maintaining our brainpower advantage so we can keep our 


 good paying jobs. That is the surest way to keep America on 


 top.



 I have attached an executive summary of the Augustine 


 Report to my comments.



 Second, I suggest that you recommend that presidents of the 


 United States appoint a lead adviser to coordinate all of the 


 Federal government responsibilities for higher education.



 My greatest regret as U.S. Education Secretary was that I 


 did not volunteer to be that lead person. Secretary 


 Spellings, with the appointment of this commission, has 


 assumed at least some of that responsibility. But the 


 authority of the Secretary of Education over higher education 


 is somewhat like the authority of the U.S. Senate majority 


 leader or a university president: overestimated. Almost every 


 agency of the federal government has something to do with 


 higher education, tens of billions of taxpayer dollars are 


 invested every year and someone should be looking at all 


 of this in a coordinated way.



 Third, I urge you to join me on the bandwagon for 


 deregulation of higher education.



 The greatest threat to the quality of American higher 


 education is not underfunding. It is overregulation. The key 


 to the quality of our higher education system is that it is 


 NOT a system. It is a marketplace of 6,000 autonomous 


 institutions. Yet, thanks largely to the last two rounds of 


 the Federal Higher Education Act, each one of our 6,000 


 higher education institutions that accepts students with 


 Federal grants and loans must wade through over 7,000 


 regulations and notices. The president of Stanford has said 


 that seven cents of every tuition dollar is spent on 


 compliance with governmental regulations.



 I have attached to my testimony remarks I made to the U.S. 


 Senate in June when I introduced the Higher Education 


 Simplification and Deregulation Act of 2005, much of which 


 was incorporated in the Higher Education Act reauthorization 


 bill this year.



 Fourth, I urge the Congress to overhaul the Medicaid 


 program and free states from outdated federal court consent 


 decrees so that states may properly fund colleges and 


 universities.



 You have two charts before you that tell the story. 


 Nationally, during the five year period from 2000 to 2004, 


 State spending for Medicaid was up 36 percent, while State 


 spending for higher education was up only 6.8 percent. As one 


 result, tuition was up 38 percent.



 The story in Tennessee was worse. Medicaid spending was up 


 71 percent, while higher education was up only 10.5 percent, 


 and tuition was up 43 percent.



 By the way, during this same four year period, Federal 


 spending for higher education was up 71 percent.



 When I left the governor's office in 1987, Tennessee was 


 spending 51 cents of each State tax dollar on education and 


 16 cents on health care, mainly Medicaid. Today it is 40 


 cents on education and 26 cents on health care, mainly 


 Medicaid.



 To give governors and legislatures the proper authority to 


 allocate resources, Congress should give States more 


 authority over Medicaid standards and more ability to 


 terminate outdated Federal court consent decrees that remove 


 decision-making authority from elected officials.



 In addition to the two charts on spending trends, I have 


 attached my remarks when Senator Mark Pryor of Arkansas and I 


 introduced the Federal Consent Decree Fairness Act.



 Fifth, I hope you will put a spotlight on the greatest 


 disappointment in higher education today: colleges of 


 education. ''At a time when America 's schools face a 


 critical demand for effective principals and superintendents, 


 the majority of programs that prepare school leaders range in 


 quality from inadequate to poor.'' Those are not my words, 


 but those of a new report by Arthur Levine, the president of 


 Teachers College, Columbia University. Or ask Richard Light, 


 the Harvard professor, who is working with university 


 presidents trying to find and inspire a new generation of 


 leaders for our colleges of education. Sometimes colleges of 


 education are even roadblocks to the very reforms they ought 


 to be championing. In 1983, when I asked colleges of 


 education to help me find a fair way to pay teachers more 


 for teaching well (which not one State was doing at the 


 time), they said it couldn't be done. So we invented our 


 own system for thousands of teachers, with virtually no 


 help from the very people who are in business to figure 


 out such things. And still today, despite the good work of 


 Governor Hunt and others, the lack of differential pay is 


 the major obstacle to quality teaching.



 I have attached an executive summary of Dr. Levine's 


 report, ''Educating School Leaders.''



 Finally, I hope you will put a spotlight on the greatest 


 threat to broader public support and funding for higher 


 education: the growing political one-sidedness which has 


 infected most campuses, and an absence of true diversity of 


 opinion.



 To describe this phenomenon, allow me to borrow some words 


 from the past, which may sound familiar to your chairman, 


 Charles Miller, who was once Chairman of the Board of Regents 


 of the University of Texas: ''systematic, persistent and 


 continuous attempts by a politically dominant group to impose 


 its social and educational views on the university.'' This 


 was what the American Association of University Professors 


 (AAUP) called it in its censure of Texas Governor Pappy 


 O'Daniel's Board of Regents when the Board fired University 


 of Texas President Homer Rainey in the 1940s. This is 


 reported in Willie Morris' book, ''North Toward Home.'' Then 


 the AAUP was talking about one-sidedness imposed by the 


 right, instead of by the left--but political one-sidedness is 


 political one-sidedness, no matter from what direction it 


 comes.



 There is more to this charge of one-sidedness than the 


 academic community would like to admit. How many conservative 


 speakers are invited to deliver commencement addresses? How 


 many colleges require courses




 in U.S. history? How many even teach Western Civilization? 


 How many bright, young faculty members are encouraged to earn 


 dissertations in the failures of bilingual education or on 


 the virtues of vouchers or charter schools?



 I am not surprised that most faculties express liberal 


 views, vote Democratic and that most faculty members resist 


 authority. That is the nature of most university communities. 


 But I am disappointed when true diversity of thought is 


 discouraged in the name of a preferred brand of diversity. 


 This one-sidedness is not good for students. It is not good 


 for the pursuit of truth. And it undermines broad public 


 support for higher education. The solution to this political 


 rigidity lies not in Washington, D.C., but in the hands of 


 trustees, deans and faculty members themselves.



 Last year Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas invited 


 former Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso to join 


 a small group of U.S. senators in the majority leader's 


 office for a discussion. Dr. Cardoso was completing a 


 residency at the Library of Congress.



 ''What memory of the United States will you take back to 


 your country?'' Senator Hutchison asked Dr. Cardoso.



 ''The American university,'' he replied immediately. ''The 


 uniqueness, strength and autonomy of the American university. 


 There is nothing like it in the world.''



 I salute Secretary Spellings and this Commission for 


 undertaking to preserve and improve higher education, 


 America's secret weapon for its future success.



 In coming to your conclusions, I hope that you will urge 


 the President to adopt the Augustine Report and to designate 


 a lead advisor for higher education, that you will jump on 


 the bandwagon to deregulate higher education and preserve its 


 autonomy, that you will urge Congress to overhaul Medicaid 


 and Federal court consent decrees so States can properly fund 


 higher education, and that you will urge trustees to revamp 


 colleges of education and ensure a campus environment that 


 honors true diversity of opinion.
