# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `23b0e8284408c1763b49b8c0ffc03ec2`
`Mr. AKAKA — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I express my strong support for the level 
of funding provided for the Department of Veterans Affairs in the 
pending Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill 
for fiscal year 2008. I also take this opportunity to congratulate 
Senators Reed, Byrd, and the other members of the committee for their 
hard work on this measure.

This bill truly reflects our commitment to fully fund veterans' 
health care and benefits. Indeed, the bill before us closely tracks the 
level of funding recommended by the Veterans' Affairs Committee in our 
Views and Estimates to the Budget Committee. This legislation would 
provide a $6.5 billion increase for VA health care over last year, $3.6 
billion more than the President requested. This represents the largest 
increase in funding ever for VA health care. I am very pleased that 
there are additional funds included in this amount for the treatment of 
traumatic brain injuries, TBI, and for VA mental health programs, to 
treat the ''invisible wounds'' that many veterans suffer from after 
serving in combat. These are two areas of vital importance to 
servicemembers returning from Operations Iraqi and Enduring Freedom.

I also thank the Military Construction-VA Appropriations Subcommittee 
members for their support of the VA Office of Inspector General. The 
$16 million increase for the OIG will enable that office to continue 
conducting extremely valuable oversight of VA. The VA inspector general 
has consistently been vitally important to the Veterans' Affairs 
Committee in the execution of our oversight responsibilities. The OIG 
is the central gear in VA's internal controls and quality assurance 
mechanism.

I would like to take this opportunity to raise the issue of Priority 
8--so-called middle-income--veterans and their current exclusion from 
the VA health care system. The majority members of the Veterans' 
Affairs Committee, in our Views and Estimates, endorsed re-opening 
enrollment to these veterans. That recommendation was followed. The 
omnibus health care authorization bill recently reported out by the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee contains a provision that would allow these 
veterans back into VA. We would fully allow the VA Secretary to close 
enrollment off at any time. It is my view that adequate funding to re-
open enrollment exists.

I want to also express my strong support for the $21.5 billion in 
funding for military construction projects included in this bill. This 
bill fully funds the administration's request for BRAC and the 
President's Grow the Force Initiative. It also includes the much needed 
funding necessary to repair and maintain the military facilities that 
are so critically important to the readiness and well-being of the 
Armed Forces. I am particularly in support of the bill's inclusion of 
$929 million for National Guard and Reserve construction. We have asked 
our National Guard and Reserve troops to commit significant sacrifices 
for this Nation and we should be prepared to provide these brave men 
and women the support they need to fulfill their duties.

I thank Senator Reed and the other subcommittee members for their 
work on this bill and for sending the right message to both our 
Nation's veterans and those currently serving. We have made a 
commitment to providing support both before and after active service, 
and this measure honors that commitment. I urge my colleagues to 
support swift passage of the legislation before us today.