# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `23b8c1ba35330d46436f148b509103f6`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa â€” 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. I thought it was important to come today and put 
a human face on the tragic story of Joshua Omvig. This handsome young 
man you see in this photograph is Joshua Omvig, and standing next to 
his headstone are his parents, Randy and Ellen.

It was Christmas in 2005 when I opened up the Waterloo Courier, my 
hometown newspaper, and saw the name Omvig, which jumped out at me 
right away because I have known Randy and Ellen for a long time.

Even though Grundy Center is just south of my district, I immediately 
was drawn to this tragic story. Joshua Omvig is not going to be 
reflected in any of the casualty totals from Iraq, but he and the other 
tragic stories you have heard today deserve to be included no less in 
the toll that has been taken on the lives of young men and women of 
this country. We owe them more. That is why I was so proud that my 
colleague from Iowa took the initiative to push this measure onto the 
House floor into committee so that it can finally receive the proper 
attention it deserved.

I came here with some prepared remarks, but I chose instead to speak 
from the heart today. Because when I was out at Walter Reed for the 
oversight hearings on the problems and the backlog of disability claims 
and the Surgeon General of the Army, Lieutenant General Kiley, tried to 
justify that backlog by saying that the science of post-traumatic 
stress disorder was still evolving in 2003 and that was preventing them 
from processing these claims, I had enough. Because I knew what people 
like Randy and Ellen Omvig have been going through, and I knew that 
this ability to prevent these tragedies from happening has been around 
for many years. And so I told General Kiley, with all due respect, 
that's hogwash.

It is important for this body to stand up and say that post-traumatic 
stress disorder is real, which is exactly what General Schoomaker said 
that day. That is why I urge you all to support this important bill and 
honor the memory of Joshua Omvig.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 327, the Joshua Omvig 
Veterans Suicide Prevention Act. This bill is named in honor of 22-
year-old Joshua Omvig, a member of the U.S. Army Reserves 3398th MP Co. 
from Grundy Center, IA, who tragically took his own life in December of 
2005 after serving an 11-month tour of duty in Iraq.

This legislation is an important step in ensuring adequate mental 
health care for our troops who return home from serving in combat zones 
and who, like Joshua, may be suffering from combat-related anxiety, 
depression, or Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). This bill is a 
necessary and overdue step in reaching out to veterans of all ages, and 
their families, in order to prevent the tragic deaths of heroes like 
Joshua Omvig.

Nearly 1,000 veterans receiving care from the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, VA, commit suicide each year, a number which is startling and 
unacceptable. Army studies show that around 25 percent of the soldiers 
who have served in Iraq display symptoms of serious mental health 
problems, including depression, substance abuse, and PTSD. These 
figures are expected to rise, as PTSD an other mental health problems 
often do not surface for months after soldiers have returned home. 
These mental health problems put our service personnel at higher risk 
for suicide.

When Joshua returned home from Iraq with PTSD, his family knew that 
he was suffering, but they didn't realize how completely his illness 
would devastate him. They didn't realize he had PTSD, or that he was at 
risk for suicide. And they did not know how to help him, because they 
did not have the appropriate resources available to them.

The Joshua Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention Act will help prevent 
suicides like Joshua's by requiring the VA to develop and implement a 
comprehensive program to reduce the incidence of suicide among 
veterans.


This program includes educating VA staff about how to identify risk 
factors for suicide, and training staffers in the appropriate ways to 
respond to crisis situations and prevent suicide among veterans. The 
bill also requires the VA to provide mental health care to veterans 24 
hours per day, and requires that a suicide prevention counselor be 
available at every VA facility. These counselors will provide direct 
assistance to veterans, and will also work with local emergency rooms, 
police departments, mental health organizations, and veterans' service 
organizations to provide outreach to veterans who may be at risk for 
suicide.

Additionally, the bill requires the VA to provide outreach and 
education for veterans and their families to give them the necessary 
skills to cope with mental illness, to reduce the stigma associated 
with seeking treatment for mental illness, and to know when and how to 
seek suicide prevention assistance.

It is my fervent hope that the passage of this bill in the House of 
Representatives today means that the tragic death of young Joshua Omvig 
will not be in vain. I would like to commend Joshua's parents for their 
advocacy on the behalf of their son and all veterans, and thank 
Congressman Leonard Boswell for his leadership on this issue. I 
strongly urge my colleagues to join me in voting for the Joshua Omvig 
Veterans Suicide Prevention Act, and I look forward to the passage of 
this critical legislation today.