# None
## `23c2426b3bd6bf12c760e0a7feb83562`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to come to the 
floor. Mr. Ryan and I have spent a long time, Mr. Speaker, when it was 
just Mr. Ryan and I on the floor. This goes back to the 108th Congress 
and a little of the 109th Congress, and I am so glad we are having the 
opportunity to come to the floor to talk about not only the budget but 
what we were able to do last week, last Friday, moving in a new 
direction as it relates to the emergency supplemental.

Mr. Speaker, as you know, the 30-Something Working Group comes to the 
floor to not only share facts but to also do away with the fiction that 
many of the Members on the other side of the aisle come to the floor 
many times sharing information that I guess someone gave them some 
information and said, go on the floor and say this, or what have you.



I can't help but watch some of this debate on the floor and question 
where some of the information comes from.

The good thing about the 30-something Working Group, we actually have 
third-party validators for information that we share here on the floor. 
We want to make sure that every Member is able to make a sound decision 
and that the American people are able to get great information from 
what we share here on the floor.

As you know, every time we come to the floor, we talk about a number 
of issues. But tonight, again we are going to talk about the budget. We 
are also going to talk about the ongoing issue of Iraq and the 
courageous step we took just last week, and the Senate has taken a step 
in that direction also in accountability measures within the emergency 
supplemental.

Mr. Ryan, I don't know if you had an opportunity to see the 
President's press conference today, but it was quite interesting. It 
was like he was trying to sell something to the American people. He was 
speaking to the Cattlemen's Association, and he took that opportunity 
not to talk about beef, but to talk about what the Congress is doing in 
the area of making sure that we bring about accountability.

He was saying he is going to veto what we actually passed. What he is 
trying to do, and there is a word on the street that is used, flipping 
the script. He is trying to flip the script and trying to fake the 
American people out in saying that the Democratic Congress is standing 
in the schoolhouse door of the funding getting to our troops.

Mr. Speaker, I beg to differ and I think we have prima facie evidence 
here to show that the emergency supplemental, everything in the 
emergency supplemental is a true emergency, making sure that we fund 
our troops beyond what the President has called for, making sure that 
we stand up on behalf of our veterans, an unprecedented commitment to 
Veterans Affairs and to the VA in the history of this country.

Because we already had a system that needed work and needed funding, 
this Congress stepped forth and put forth, the 110th Congress, the 
Democratic controlled Congress stepped forward and made sure we did 
what we needed to do for the veterans, and we are just getting started.

At the same time, Mr. Ryan, we have to look at the issue of Hurricane 
Katrina. The President said there is other funding in there. We are 
doing things in the emergency supplemental for the people on the gulf 
coast that have been waiting on the President. They don't want lip 
service, they want action. If the President wants to veto that, that's 
on him. But I guarantee you that the American people will see through 
what our President is saying as it relates to and as he continues to 
explain how he is going to veto an emergency supplemental.

He is saying if the money runs out, and it is on the back of the U.S. 
Congress. Well, I can tell you this: The American people are on the 
side of the U.S. Congress. They have asked us to lead, and we are 
leading. They didn't ask us to balk at the first threat that the 
President makes. Or I am going to veto. Well, okay, that is something 
that you are going to have to live with. That is something you will 
have to explain. But we are going to continue to do what we need to do 
here in providing the kind of leadership necessary.

America said in November they want to move in a direction. They said 
they want accountability. They no longer want a rubber stamp. They want 
a do-something Congress and not a do-nothing Congress. We will talk 
about that tonight.

Mr. Ryan, I am so glad you are here as we continue to share this 
information with the Members so they can make an accurate decision 
tomorrow when we vote on the budget, on our priorities, making sure 
that we give every child in the United States health care, and making 
sure that we move in the direction that the U.S. mayors have asked us 
to move in, making sure that we move in the direction that governors 
have asked us to move in, and giving the necessary dollars to homeland 
security to protect the homeland.

We are going to make sure that the Members know exactly what they are 
voting on so when we go on a 2-week break, Mr. Speaker, Members can't 
go home and say, I didn't really understand what was in the budget.

I yield to Mr. Ryan.