# TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST  HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008--
## `23e1f699f6a3d79b972eb1044447f615`
`Mr. DURBIN — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I rise to speak in support of section 
305 of the Tom Lantos and Henry J. Hyde United States Global Leadership 
Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Reauthorization Act. 
Section 305 would make an important change in our laws that is long 
overdue.

Under current law, foreign students, tourists, refugees and 
immigrants with HIV are prohibited from entering the United States. 
Section 305 would eliminate this HIV travel ban. I was pleased to join 
Senator Kerry and Senator Smith as an original cosponsor of the HIV 
Nondiscrimination in Travel and Immigration Act, the original version 
of this provision.

Our immigration laws treat people with HIV differently than people 
with any other medical condition. HIV is the only disease specifically 
listed in U.S. law as a bar to entering the United States. For all 
other medical conditions, the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
determines whether the public health risk justifies a bar to admission.

Only 11 other countries have such harsh travel restrictions for 
people with HIV. Listen to the other countries with HIV travel bans: 
Armenia, Colombia, Iraq, Oman, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Solomon 
Islands, South Korea, Sudan, and Yemen. Even China recently took steps 
to overturn its HIV travel ban. Does the United States


really want to be in the company of Sudan when it comes to the 
treatment of people with HIV?

This HIV travel ban undermines our global leadership in the fight 
against AIDS and is incompatible with the goals of PEPFAR.

How can we tell other countries to end discrimination against people 
with HIV when we ourselves treat people with HIV who want to travel to 
our country differently than those with any other medical condition?

The travel ban for persons with HIV was enacted in 1993, at a time 
when there was fear and misunderstanding about this disease. The travel 
ban is a relic of an earlier time. Hasn't our knowledge about HIV and 
tolerance for people with HIV expanded enough in the 15 years to 
eliminate the travel ban?

The travel ban does not further any public health goals. Eliminating 
the ban will simply return the authority to the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services to decide whether or not persons with HIV should be 
admitted into our country, as they do for all other diseases.

Our laws already require that anyone who wants to immigrate here 
demonstrate that they are unlikely to become an economic burden to the 
U.S. Government, which ensures that lifting the HIV travel ban would 
not have a significant financial cost.

Over 200 organizations, including the American Medical Association, 
the American Public Health Association and the World Health 
Organization, oppose the HIV travel ban. A broad range of faith-based 
groups, including the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, support 
lifting the HIV travel ban.

The HIV travel ban allows for a discretionary, case-by-case waiver 
process, but it is available only to a restricted group of visa 
applicants, and it is cumbersome and time-consuming. Let's take just 
one example: when Chicago hosted the Gay Games in 2006, the organizers 
had to work with various government agencies for several months before 
securing a waiver for persons with HIV to attend the event.

We will take an important step towards ending discrimination against 
people with HIV by lifting this travel ban and treating persons with 
HIV the same way we treat those with other medical conditions. That is 
consistent with the goals of PEPFAR and the U.S. leadership role in 
fighting discrimination against people with HIV around the world.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.