# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `23eab47121af513d405cc1242b6f27d4`
`Mr. VITTER — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. VITTER. Madam President, I, too, rise to talk about this very 
important matter we are debating and voting on today, the situation in 
Iraq.

First, I want to say hallelujah, we are finally having a full, open 
debate and a range of votes. That is exactly what I have been pushing 
for, pleading for, asking for, along with so many of my colleagues on 
the Republican side. I am very glad finally we do have a full and fair 
and open debate, with the ability to cast votes on measures we deem 
very important, and specifically the Gregg resolution about supporting 
our troops in the field.

Secondly, I want to express real reservations about the Reid 
resolution, which we will also be voting on today.

The situation in Iraq is very tough. We need to make a final push, 
and certainly the biggest part of that push does need to be strong 
action by the Iraqi Government. We need benchmarks and pressure on the 
Iraqis to do the right thing. I specifically talked


about that. But the Reid resolution does some things I believe we 
absolutely must not do. Specifically, it sets very precise and 
complicated and cumbersome dates certain. I believe that is much more 
useful as a message to the enemy and a help to the enemy than a roadmap 
for us.

In addition, I think the Reid resolution clearly micromanages the 
war. It clearly oversteps our bounds as a legislative body by taking on 
the responsibilities and the management and the function of the 
Commander-in-Chief. Therefore, for that reason, I think that aspect of 
the Reid resolution is, No. 1, a bad idea, but, No. 2, very possibly 
unconstitutional.

I will be voting against that Reid resolution. But again, I thank 
everyone who finally, after weeks and weeks of talk--finally--gave us 
the opportunity for these votes and for a vote on the Gregg resolution 
and other important matters.

The third and final point I want to make goes to the path, 
unfortunately, I think we are headed down with some of this language. I 
think this is very unfortunate, and I think this path and where it is 
headed, in my opinion, is something we must all work to avoid. Let me 
explain what I mean.

Senator Reid has made it perfectly clear he will put forward his 
resolution today with all of those complicated dates and timetables and 
what-ifs and benchmarks. Again, I have problems with that; I will vote 
no. But Senator Reid has also made clear he will also put forward the 
exact same substance in the context of the emergency supplemental 
appropriations bill to fund our men and women in uniform in the field 
in Iraq.

Now, why is that a problem? Well, it is a problem for the following 
reasons: that emergency supplemental bill is needed, as I just said, to 
fund the men and women in uniform in the field right now, under fire, 
risking their lives in Iraq.

We have all said over and over and over that no matter how we feel 
about the war, no matter what we put forward as the proper policy on 
the war effort, we would give our men and women in uniform in the field 
what they need to do their job and defend themselves. The problem is 
this Reid language, particularly the threat to put it on the emergency 
supplemental appropriations bill, threatens to cut that funding off 
because that language, if it gets on the bill, will, first of all, 
delay debate and implementation of the bill, and secondly, if it is in 
the final version of that spending bill, it will absolutely--
absolutely--produce a veto by the President of the United States. He 
cannot agree to that language because of his position on the proper 
path forward, and no President can agree to that language because of 
the constitutional power of the President as the Commander in Chief. 
That will further delay this emergency spending bill and further delay 
getting necessary funds and equipment to troops in the field.

The military has said very clearly we need to act by April 15 so 
those funds and that equipment can get to the field starting in early 
May. Our troops are counting on it. They are waiting for it. These are 
men and women in uniform, in the field, under fire right now. But, 
again, this strategy and this language of Senator Reid will make it 
very likely that won't happen and will make it very likely this whole 
matter and this whole spending to get to our troops in the field will 
be significantly delayed. That is not funding men and women in uniform. 
That is not supporting our troops in the field. What that is doing is 
refraining from supporting them, slowly bleeding away the resources, 
the equipment, and the money they need to do their job.

It is one thing to say: New troops, you are not going anywhere. You 
stay right here. We are having this debate. But it is quite another to 
slowly bleed and endanger troops in the field. Yet this is the path 
that I am very afraid we are embarking on with the Reid language, 
particularly if it is put on the emergency supplemental appropriations 
bill.

In closing, let me say, we have all said on this floor, virtually to 
a person in the U.S. Senate, that no matter what we think about the 
war, no matter what we think about the right path forward in the war, 
we will not endanger our troops in the field. We better think long and 
hard about the path some would adopt because they are beginning to do 
just that. We can't have that. We need to give our brave, smart, 
courageous men and women in the field already the money, the equipment, 
the resources they need to do their job. They are literally under fire 
there. We cannot bleed away what they need in the field, quickly, 
slowly, or anything inbetween.

Again, I am very concerned that is the path Senator Reid and some 
others would put us on.

So, thankfully, we are having this full and open debate today. We 
will be having votes today. I believe the most important vote is on the 
Gregg resolution. I will proudly vote for that in support of our men 
and women in uniform in the field, and I will do everything I can to 
avoid slowly, quickly, or anything inbetween bleeding resources, money, 
and equipment away from what those brave men and women whom we have 
already put in the field need to defend themselves and to conduct their 
mission.

Madam President, I yield the floor.