# IRAQ
## `23eb46e244dbc4a3e02c2e1ac11916d4`
`Mr. REID — 20 April 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, we heard again this afternoon the same old 
story from President Bush about the war in Iraq. He claimed again that 
his new escalation strategy is working, that the signs of success are 
everywhere, and that victory is imminent. He also, once again, attacked 
those of us with the courage to ask the tough questions and tell the 
truth about Iraq.

In an effort to shift attention from this administration's failed 
policies--and I say that in the plural--the President and his allies 
have repeatedly questioned whether I and my fellow Democrats support 
our troops. No one wants us to succeed in Iraq more than Democrats. We 
have proven that time and time again since this war started more than 4 
years ago. We take a backseat to no one in supporting our troops, and 
we will never abandon our troops in a time of war.

Given the White House spin machine that has been working overtime in 
an effort to defend its failed policies, it is important for me to 
repeat what I said yesterday afternoon in this Chamber: The longer we 
continue down the President's path, the further we will be from 
responsibly ending this war. I said it yesterday, I say it again: The 
longer we continue down the President's path, the further we will be 
from responsibly ending this war. But there is still a chance to change 
course, and we must change course.

Partisans who launched attacks on my comments are the same ones who 
continue to support the failed strategy that hurts our troops. Is this 
administration supporting the troops when it sends our brave men and 
women into battle without the necessary body armor; with vehicles that 
are not properly armored? I ask, is the administration supporting the 
troops when it fails to provide them the health care they have earned 
when they come home?

Our responsibilities end with these troops--never. They don't end 
when they leave Iraq. They don't end when they get back home. We have 
to continue to help them. That is what we have done.

Is the administration supporting the troops by threatening to delay 
their funding unless Congress continues to rubberstamp its failed 
policy?

I believe supporting our troops means giving them the funding they 
need and a strategy they deserve. It means stopping the partisan 
attacks. And it means spending time working together on a bipartisan 
basis to develop an effective strategy to successfully end this war.

I wish some of my detractors felt the same. An effective strategy is 
exactly what we are offering the President and our troops--no more, no 
less. Let's all understand, changing course in Iraq will increase 
America's security by bringing this war to a responsible end and 
permitting our troops to more effectively fight terror all over the 
world. This is precisely the strategy President Bush is vowing to veto.

We heard the same old story from the President today because his 
strategy calls for more of the same. It is a failed strategy for our 
troops in Iraq. It is a failed strategy for our security at home. It is 
dangerous that the President refuses to recognize the reality on the 
ground in Iraq.

For those who claim we are on the right path in Iraq, I ask them to 
look at this week's newspapers. I am only going to mention now a few 
things we find in this week's news.

The White House announced additional National Guard troops would be 
sent to Iraq; many, if not most, without the necessary training and 
equipment. The White House extended tours in Iraq for all active Army 
troops from 12 to 15 months. A week after the Iraqi Parliament was 
bombed in the Green Zone, which is the most secure part of Baghdad, 
almost 200 Iraqis lost their lives in that city on Wednesday. The 
bombings continue today. They will continue tomorrow. We are losing 
about four American troops every day this month.

I went to the White House this Wednesday with Speaker Pelosi to meet 
with the President and talk about a bipartisan way to craft an 
effective strategy in Iraq. We did so because we believe, as do the 
American people, that the lives of too many of our soldiers and too 
many Iraqis are on the line. The President refused to work with us.

How has the President responded? He has chosen to repeat his 
inflexible veto threats and continued to attack those who questioned 
his failed policies. Meanwhile, our troops and our national security 
are suffering.

It is painfully clear to me, the American people, bipartisan 
majorities in both the House and the Senate, military experts all over 
this country, and the Iraq Study Group, that the only way to succeed is 
to give our troops the strategy their sacrifices deserve. These groups 
all know there is no military solution in Iraq.

General Petraeus, the commander on the ground, has said so himself: 
20 percent can be won militarily; 80 percent has to be won through our 
diplomatic efforts, politics, and economics.

I repeat, the only way to succeed lies through a comprehensive 
political, diplomatic, and economic strategy--so says the commander on 
the ground there, General Petraeus. Unfortunately, the only one to whom 
this is not obvious is our President.

The longer we continue down the President's path, the further we will 
be from success. But there is still a chance to change course, and we 
must change course. That is what we are offering the President in the 
supplemental we passed in both bodies with bipartisan support. We are 
offering a reasonable and attainable timeline to reduce combat missions 
and refocus our efforts on the real threats to our security. We are 
offering action, not just words.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.