# CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE
## `23ecc89559197689b9990178eafc67f8`
`Mr. DURBIN — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Michigan for 
coming to the Senate floor. Occasionally, there are debates in this 
Chamber that really matter. The debate on the war in Iraq certainly 
leads that list. We have a deadly war underway. A hundred American 
soldiers are killed, on average, every single month. Almost 4,000 have 
died, with 30,000 having been injured. At least 10,000 have been 
seriously injured, with amputations and burns and traumatic brain 
injury. That should be the focal point of what we do on the floor of 
the Senate, and it is.

Yesterday, sadly, an important amendment by Senator Webb of Virginia, 
an important amendment for soldiers and their families, was defeated, 
defeated on a vote of 56 to 44. The average person might say: It sounds 
like you won. Not by Senate math. By Senate math it takes 60 votes on 
controversial issues, and this required 60, so that wasn't enough. We 
were defeated in an effort to say something very straightforward: If 
you are going to ask our soldiers to be deployed in combat, risking 
their lives for 12 months, you should at least give them 12 months 
afterward to rest, be reunited with their family, retrained and 
reequipped, before they go back into combat. So 12 months on duty, 12 
months off duty. That was defeated.

If you meet with these soldiers and their families, if you know the 
stress they are under, if you read the numbers about the divorce rate 
among our soldiers, the suicide rate, the post-traumatic stress 
disorder which they are battling as they return from the stress of 
battles, it is hard to imagine the Senate would not give that kind of 
consideration to our soldiers and their families. That is a critically 
important debate.

Now, we will soon move to another very important debate. It is about 
health insurance. Everybody in America knows there is something that 
needs to be done on health insurance. There are 47 million of our 
neighbors in America, people who live with us in our communities and go 
to church with us, who have no health insurance. In my home State of 
Illinois, I went back in August in deep southern Illinois, near 
Harrisburg, in Saline County, and a woman came to me and said: I am 63 
years old. I am a realtor. I have never had health insurance 1 day in 
my life. It is hard to imagine, but that is the reality many working 
Americans face every single day. They are one diagnosis, one illness 
away from bankruptcy. Those are the people with no health insurance.

Now, let us speak about those who have health insurance but it isn't 
good enough; it costs more each year and covers less. We know the 
story. Businesses tell you, labor unions tell you, families tell you: I 
don't have the kind of coverage I want, and it costs a fortune. That is 
the reality.

We also know that in our great Nation there are 15 million children--
of the 47 million I mentioned earlier, 15 million are children--with no 
health insurance. These are kids from families not poor enough to 
qualify for Medicaid and not fortunate enough to have a parent with a 
job that has health insurance. There are 15 million kids for whom the 
only opportunity for health care is a trip to an emergency room.

We wanted to change that 5 years ago, and we passed this CHIP 
program, Children's Health Insurance Program, and said let us do 
something about it. So we covered 6 million of the 15 million kids, but 
now the program is going to expire in a few days. Our hope with this 
new Congress was we could expand health insurance to cover more 
children, at least 3 million more. We want to make sure all 15 million 
are covered, but we are not going to quite reach that goal. We want to 
at least get closer, with 9 million covered.

We had a bipartisan agreement to do that. The Senate came together, 
cooperated, compromised, and reached an agreement to expand health 
insurance protection to another 3 million kids. This morning, the 
President of the United States had a press availability and announced 
he would oppose this bill expanding health insurance for children. At 
the time, the spokesman for his administration said: We don't want to 
give health insurance to families who are well off. They defined a 
family that is well off as one that makes $60,000 a year.

Now, I have to tell you, $60,000 is more than the average wage in my 
hometown of Springfield, IL, but not by much. And $60,000 a year, after 
you pay your taxes, doesn't leave a lot of money for your mortgage 
payment, for your utility bills, for your property taxes, and for the 
kids' school expenses. If you happen to not have health insurance where 
you work, $60,000 doesn't leave much of a cushion to turn around and 
buy health insurance. That insurance is going to cost you $60 or $80, 
maybe $1,000 or more a month.

We think those families, with kids who don't have health insurance, 
making $60,000, deserve a helping hand so they can at least have the 
security of health insurance and know their kids are covered. But it is 
going to be a battle. We are going to pass this bill and send it to the 
President. He is going to veto this bill--at least he promises to. I 
hope he reconsiders. But if not, we will then get a chance to override 
his veto.

This is the kind of debate which matters. For millions of Americans 
and their families, this debate gets down to one of the real issues 
that keep parents awake at night, worrying about their kids.

Some of us in our lives have been through this experience. I was a 
law student when my wife and I had a little baby and were without 
health insurance. We had some medical issues with our baby. I didn't 
have health insurance to turn to. That happened many years ago. My 
daughter is now 40 years old. But let me tell you, I will never forget 
it. There was a sinking feeling that my girl was not going to get the 
best doctor and the best care because, as a father, I didn't have 
health insurance to cover her. It was only for a short period in my 
life, but I will never forget it. I can't imagine people living with 
that feeling every day, every week, every month, and every year. 
Shouldn't we, as a great and giving nation, care about our own first?

This President will not even blink when he sends us a bill in a week 
or so asking for $198 billion more for the war in Iraq--$198 billion. 
Yet he is unwilling to spend $6 billion for health insurance for 
children. That is about what it is each year over a 5-year period of 
time. He will spend $198 billion for the war in Iraq but not $6 billion 
to make America stronger, to make America's families stronger.

This is a debate worth waging. This is an issue worth fighting for. 
This Senate will return to that issue in a week or two, and I hope the 
American people, on a bipartisan basis, as this bill is bipartisan, 
will join us in urging the Senate to pass the bill and to override the 
President's veto.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.