---
---

# None
## `23fff17b9ae691d34c2d59405252c9d2`
`Mr. REID — 22 July 2009`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, this week, we are considering important 
legislation to authorize spending for the Department of Defense. Among 
the many activities supported by this funding are our efforts to fight 
al-Qaida, the Taliban, and other terrorist groups around the world and 
prevent another terrorist attack on our country.

The bill includes funding for a number of key priorities relating to 
our fight against terrorists. It provides $130 billion to fund our 
efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq. Afghanistan remains the front line in 
the battle against terrorism, as it provides a haven for thousands of 
Taliban and al-Qaida fighters. And, as U.S. troops pull back from Iraqi 
cities, our mission in that country will increasingly focus on counter-
terrorism. It funds a number of key initiatives to enhance the safety 
of our troops and our citizens from terrorist threats, including 
funding for detecting and defeating improvised explosive devices, or 
IEDs. It funds some of our most important efforts to prevent unsecured 
nuclear material from falling into the hands of terrorists. It expands 
the size of our Special Operations Forces--the elite commando units 
like Navy SEALs and Army Green Berets--who lead this Nation's global 
ground fight against terrorism.

While the Special Operations Forces provide us a unique and 
unsurpassed capability, they are hardly the only group of Americans on 
the front lines of this fight. The Special Operations Forces are part 
of one of three key groups of people in our government who play a 
critical role in this fight. Military service members, who are fighting 
house-to-house, street-to-street, and village to village in Iraq and 
Afghanistan to identify and eliminate terrorists and insurgents. 
Members of the Foreign Service and USAID who, in addition to carrying 
out our Nation's diplomacy, are working with local leaders to build 
governing capacity, improve essential services, and foster economic 
growth. And members of our Nation's intelligence agencies, who provide 
the vital information we need both to keep these other public servants 
out of harm's way and to take the fight to the terrorists.

I want to pause for a moment to recognize and commend their 
tremendous service to our Nation. The courage, endurance, and sacrifice 
they exhibit on a


daily basis exemplify the highest values of our great Nation. And while 
our country has made great strides in honoring the contribution of our 
military service members, many of our diplomats and intelligence 
personnel consistently demonstrate their patriotism and commitment with 
hardly any public recognition.

I would like to especially honor the men and women of our Nation's 
intelligence services. The U.S. intelligence community has been under 
fire in recent weeks. The recent controversy is not over whether the 
CIA has done enough to go after bin Laden, or about whether it has done 
its job effectively. It is about whether senior leaders in the Bush 
administration mismanaged and misrepresented a particular program. That 
is an important question that our Intelligence Committee will seek to 
answer, but it should not call into question the distinguished service 
of the officers who continue to do a remarkable job for our country.

I have seen first hand some of the military and intelligence officers 
who are hunting Osama bin Laden and other terrorists. CIA and Air Force 
personnel are working around the clock, 24 hours a day, supporting the 
missions of Predator and Reaper unmanned aerial vehicles. Their work is 
a clear example of military and intelligence personnel making a 
significant difference in protecting the safety of American citizens on 
a daily basis.

