# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `23ff9796e4b9a9401e9f0a29bf71e045`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about the 
decision to move the remaining detainees held at Guantanamo Bay Naval 
facility, or Gitmo, to the Thomson Correctional Center in Illinois.

The decision to transfer Gitmo detainees to the heartland of our 
country is irresponsible, a waste of taxpayer dollars, and contrary to 
the wishes of the American people.

Congress has included language permitting the transfer or detention 
of Gitmo detainees to the United States only under certain limited 
conditions in every relevant appropriations bill passed this year, 
including the recently passed Omnibus Appropriations Act. That is one 
of the reasons I voted against every single one of those bills.

The President now has made the decision to purchase the Thomson 
Correctional Center from the State of Illinois for the purpose of 
transferring and detaining Gitmo detainees.

Further, the President stated he will need to expend millions of 
additional dollars renovating and securing the facility when much has 
already been invested in the state-of-the-art facility at Guantanamo 
Bay. This unnecessary spending is an abuse of our tax dollars and one 
that holds dire national security consequences.

The administration claims that many of these detainees will continue 
to be held by the military in the same prison where the Department of 
Justice will hold average, ordinary criminals. What the administration 
fails to tell the American people is that these detainees will obtain 
the same rights as U.S. citizens the moment they step inside the United 
States. We have already seen detainees attempt to gain these same 
rights as Americans in our courts and have seen the courts grant them 
limited rights without them being inside the United States.

In habeas corpus cases where the court has ruled, 30 out of 38 Gitmo 
detainees have been found to be unlawfully detained and their release 
has been ordered. After reviewing the classified biographies on some of 
these individuals, it is clear from these decisions that the courts are 
not in a position to judge matters of war and cannot when they are 
bound by our criminal justice system. It is not designed to handle war 
criminals.

The courts do not adequately consider the threat these individuals 
pose to U.S. interests or will pose in the future when they return to 
terrorism. President Obama cites the authorization for the use of 
military force as legal justification for continuing the detention of 
these terrorists. However, the courts have already indicated that these 
detainees cannot be indefinitely held. I wonder if the administration 
considered this when it decided to move Gitmo detainees to the United 
States.

This administration may face the same problem as the last 
administration did in justifying to a U.S. court the continuing 
detention of these terrorists. Only this time, the court will have a 
remedy.

It is foreseeable that some, and possibly many, of those detainees 
will be ordered released by our courts. The administration has tried to 
assure the public that our immigration laws will prohibit the release 
of those individuals into the United States. But, once again, this 
administration fails to appreciate the limits of our legal system.


Once these detainees are physically present in the United States, prior 
judicial precedent indicates that the government can only detain an 
individual while immigration removal proceedings are ongoing for a 
maximum of 6 months. If a detainee cannot be transferred or deported, 
they will be released, freed into the United States, after 6 months. 
This is much more than just moving Guantanamo north.

On the other hand, if the administration is able to secure the 
transfer of these detainees to another country, we can be sure to watch 
the recidivism rates rise. The Department of Defense's last 
unclassified fact sheet on recidivism reported that 14 percent of the 
former Gitmo detainees returned to terrorism after their release or 
their transfer. This is almost one out of every seven detainees 
transferred. This number is much larger now after 8 months and 
countless transfers of the most serious terrorists.

Some of the detainees transferred openly admit their affiliation with 
a terrorist organization or that they were combating U.S. forces in 
Afghanistan. Confirming this, two former Gitmo detainees transferred to 
Saudi Arabia announced earlier this year that they were now the leaders 
of al-Qaida in the Arabian peninsula. Another detainee, Ali bin Ali 
Aleh, lived with Abu Zubaydah in Pakistan and was identified on a list 
of names in Khalid Shaikh Mohammed's possession when KSM was captured. 
Ali bin Ali Aleh was determined not to be an enemy combatant and 
ordered to be released by a U.S. court in May of this year. He was 
transferred to Yemen in September.

Maybe some of my colleagues have seen the recent headlines indicating 
that some European countries are willing to accept these detainees. In 
fact, detainees have recently been transferred to Belgium, Ireland, 
Hungary, and Italy. However, the American people are not fooled by 
these headlines. Of the 779 detainees held since 2001 at Guantanamo 
Bay, our European partners have accepted only 37. The vast majority of 
detainees--almost 400--have been transferred to four countries: 
Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, and Yemen. These four countries 
are either currently in conflict or actively combating al-Qaida. In all 
four of these countries, the threat from al-Qaida and associate 
militants has done nothing but increase over the past few years. Yet 
the United States is sending back hundreds of terrorists to the most 
volatile regions of the world--South Asia, which poses the greatest 
terrorist threat currently to the homeland and to the Arabian 
peninsula, which I believe will present itself as the next greatest 
threat to the United States.

The decision to move these terrorists to the United States may force 
the administration to choose between freeing terrorists into Illinois 
or transferring them back to the center of the battle. Is this the 
policy position we want to put our country in while we are still 
combating terrorism?

No one doubts the security of our prisons to safely hold these 
individuals. I doubt the ability of our laws and judicial system to 
ensure that these terrorists are convicted or kept in prison. 
Prohibiting the detainees from entering the United States is the only 
guarantee. However, the decision to move the remaining terrorists at 
Gitmo to the heart of this country shattered any remaining hope for 
this guarantee. This is yet another step in a series of poor policy 
decisions which is leading our country in the wrong direction.

I am disappointed by this decision, obviously. But I can only imagine 
how the residents of Illinois feel about it. I know Georgians would not 
be pleased with housing over 200 of the most serious and hardened 
terrorists in the world in their backyard.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.