# FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `2402cb4736540a3ec92befd238998dbe`
`Mrs. BOXER — 17 December 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I strongly support bringing the Judiciary 
Committee version of the FISA bill before us. That is why I voted not 
to proceed to take up the Intelligence Committee bill.

I did not cast that vote lightly because, as the Chair knows, I want 
to get the terrorists. I voted to go after Osama bin Laden. I voted to 
go after al-Qaida after they attacked us. I have voted to give this 
President every penny he needed to go ahead and capture Osama bin 
Laden. To date, much to my dismay and the dismay of the American 
people, we haven't captured bin Laden, who engineered the attack 
against our Nation. We have not caught him dead, we have not caught him 
alive. But we did capture Saddam Hussein, who didn't attack us on 9/11. 
We did get into a war we cannot get out of, thanks to the President and 
his backers, who have gotten us into a position where there is no way 
out and no end in sight. But capture bin Laden? No.

I will never give up hope on that. I will give our country all the 
tools it needs to get him and the others who have harmed us and who 
want to harm us in the future. That is our most sacred responsibility 
and duty. But if we are not careful, if we are not prudent, if we are 
not honest about what we are doing here, we give bin Laden exactly what 
he wants, Mr. President: a country that scares its people rather than a 
country that protects its people, a country that takes away the rights 
of its people out of fear.

Former Justice Thurgood Marshall said:




 History teaches us that grave threats to liberty often come 


 in times of urgency, when constitutional rights seem too 


 extravagant to ignore.


Now, what makes America so great? It is that we have been a guiding 
light to the world because we have been a strong nation in all ways, 
and a strong nation protects the rights of its citizens, while a weak 
nation, a fearful nation, a nation that lives in fear, abdicates those 
rights. We see it around the world. Let us never see it here.

We have an understanding here in America that the need for security 
must always be balanced against the rights of the people. Once we lose 
that precious balance, we are giving the terrorists exactly what they 
want.

We cannot and we must not ever lose that precious balance. If freedom 
and liberty become nothing more than just hollow words, then when we 
try to lead the world, we will simply not have the moral high ground. 
We have seen this happen in our great Nation in so many areas, and we 
cannot today, or during the next couple of days, allow this Nation, 
with our permission, to look at the rights of our people and take them 
lightly.

I quote another Supreme Court Justice, one of my heroines, Sandra Day 
O'Connor:




 It is during our most challenging and uncertain moments 


 that our Nation's commitment to due process is most severely 


 tested; and it is in those times that we must preserve our 


 commitment at home to the principles for which we fight 


 abroad.


''We must preserve our commitment at home to the principles for which 
we fight abroad.''

When President Bush announced his foreign policy--I will never forget 
it--he said we need to bring democracy around the world. We need to 
bring freedom around the world. We need to stop the despots of the 
world from taking away the freedoms the people have. Yet here at home 
they are destroying tapes, at home they are listening in on Americans 
without a warrant.

What is in the judiciary version of the bill that makes it much 
better than the intelligence version, and why was I so proud to stand 
with only 10 of my colleagues? I thank Senator Dodd for his leadership 
on this issue. That is a hard vote. Here is why.

The judiciary version of the bill requires at least one specific 
individual target in order to begin bulk collection of international 
communications. You need to name one target; that is what the Judiciary 
Committee is saying. You just don't go on a fishing expedition. We have 
seen those kinds of fishing expeditions before. We have seen people 
herded up before. We cannot do that now, not in this century; not in 
this century when we are fighting bin Laden and we are fighting the 
forces that want to take away freedom.

Second, it requires a FISA Court order to continue surveillance when 
a call involves U.S. citizens. That is called a check and balance. That 
is essential to our freedom.

Third, it allows the FISA Court to decide whether surveillance 
continues while the Government appeals a decision against a proposed 
surveillance program. That is another example of check and balance.

Human beings are flawed, and when all the power resides in one or two 
of them, we need to have a check and balance. By the way, check and 
balance is one of the centerpieces of our freedom, of our Constitution. 
In this particular area of the law, we ought to make sure it is built 
in.

The Judiciary bill provides ongoing FISA Court supervision, including 
audits of surveillance programs. Again, a check and balance.

And then, of course, there is the issue on which Senator Dodd has 
been such a leader, and that is the issue of immunity, immunity for 
telecommunications companies that cooperated


with the administration's warrantless surveillance program.

Let me point out that there were some companies that did not go along 
with it. Let's not be led to believe that every company rolled over and 
said: Here, have at it. There were some that stood up for the law, the 
law that was supposed to guide them. There were some that stood up for 
the American people, and I thank them.

To the others, what I say to them is this--I understand why they 
might not have stood up, but we have to get to the bottom of this 
issue. We cannot go around giving people immunity when they turn their 
backs on the rule of law.

Granting immunity without fully understanding whether Americans were 
spied upon in a warrantless surveillance program is irresponsible 
because of this reason: Congress and the American people will be 
blocked from finding out the truth about the warrantless program. We 
may not find out for 20 years, 30 years, 40 years. That is wrong. The 
American people deserve to know the truth.

Again, I take it to what we are as a nation. We are a free people. 
Our people deserve to be protected. The ones who are bad apples deserve 
to be caught and face the music. We need to find a law that seeks that 
balance and gets that balance. I think the Judiciary Committee did that 
beautifully, and I wish that was the bill in front of us now. That is 
why I voted not to proceed to the Intelligence Committee version.

Having said this, I hope we can work together and improve the 
Intelligence Committee bill. The Intelligence Committee version of the 
bill with telecom immunity puts the interests of the telecom companies 
ahead of the rights of the American people.

In closing, this is a watershed moment for us. Why do I say that? I 
heard Senator Sessions come down and give a very eloquent speech. He 
said, ''The civil''--I am quoting him now--''The civil libertarians 
among us''--and then he listed all the bad things he thinks the civil 
libertarians among us have done. I hope every one of us--every one of 
us in this Chamber--supports the civil liberties of the United States 
of America because if you don't, you don't believe in the Constitution. 
That is where we get these rights.

We need a FISA bill that will help us continue to track the 
terrorists without surrendering our rights and our liberties, and this 
can be done. I hope we can get a coalition together and amend this 
Intelligence Committee bill in a way that will do just that. We need a 
bill that closes loopholes in FISA that clearly have been created by 
advancements in technology. I understand that. But we also need a FISA 
bill that, while it allows us to go after the bad guys, has proper 
checks and balances within it. We need a bill that will improve FISA 
Court oversight of our foreign surveillance programs without hindering 
our ability to protect our country. We can do that.

I believe the Judiciary Committee version of the FISA bill 
accomplishes these goals. We don't have to create it here. They did an 
excellent job. It seems to me to throw out all their work would be a 
big error.

Finally, my point: It is so ironic and sad to me that we are losing 
our beautiful young people, and, by the way, not so young, some from 
the National Guard who are in their thirties and forties and older. We 
are losing them every day over in Iraq. Why? Ask the President to 
answer that question. He will be quick to answer it eloquently. To 
bring freedom and democracy, bring freedom and democracy, bring freedom 
and democracy.

If you feel that way, Mr. President, and those who support him and 
have given him a blank check, then let's protect it at home in a way 
that allows us to go after those who will do us harm if we are not 
careful, and yet protects the very essence of our Nation, the very 
freedom of our Nation, the very essence of our Constitution that has 
brought us to this point where the world envies our freedom and 
democracy. To give it up for politics or sound bites or 30-second 
commercials on television would be a dereliction of our most sacred 
duty.

I yield the floor.