---
---

# MARINE CORPS CORPORAL DAANE ADAM DEBOER
## `24090d91100eb12f23366a7ce679325d`
`Mr. VISCLOSKY — 13 July 2010`

---


Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is with great respect and deep 
sadness that I wish to commend United States Marine Corps Corporal 
Daane Adam DeBoer for his bravery and willingness to fight for his 
country. Corporal DeBoer was killed when hit by an improvised explosive 
device while on foot patrol in the Helmand province in Afghanistan. His 
sacrifice will forever be remembered by a community that has been 
struck by the devastating loss of one of their own.

Daane Adam DeBoer was born in Valparaiso, Indiana. He attended 
Immanuel Lutheran School through the sixth grade. Former teachers 
report that Daane was an energetic youth with a zest for life. From a 
young age, family members remember Daane as having a thirst for the 
extreme. He enjoyed extreme sports, whether he was skiing in Colorado 
or walking the 2,200 miles of the Appalachian Trail to help raise money 
for the


Susan G. Komen for the Cure fund. Although he was only a young man, he 
garnered the respect and admiration of others in the communities that 
he was a part of, as made evident by the numerous prayer circles 
initiated upon the news of his death.

Daane would later use his enthusiasm and spirit to protect his 
country in the United States Marine Corps. Corporal DeBoer joined the 
Marines in 2009 and was deployed for combat for the first time to 
Afghanistan in March of 2010. His service awards include the Purple 
Heart, the Combat Action Ribbon, the National Defense Service Medal, 
the Afghanistan Campaign Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service 
Medal, and the Sea Service Deployment Ribbon.

The youngest of a loving family, Daane is survived by his father and 
stepmother, David and Mary DeBoer of Valparaiso, his mother and 
stepfather, Charlene and Jim Zerrenner of Ludington, Michigan, and his 
three sisters: Aubrey, Ashley, and Lindsey.

Madam Speaker, at this time I ask that you and my other distinguished 
colleagues join me in honoring a fallen hero, United States Marine 
Corps Corporal Daane DeBoer. Corporal DeBoer sacrificed his life in 
service to his country, and his passing comes as a great setback to our 
nation, shaken by the realities of war. Corporal DeBoer will forever 
remain a hero in the eyes of his family, his community, and his 
country. Thus, let us never forget the sacrifice he made to preserve 
the ideals of freedom and democracy.
