---
---

# MENTAL HEALTH PARITY NOW
## `240c0976f1b57f901ff1357076c4ae1a`
`Mr. RAMSTAD — 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. RAMSTAD. I again appreciate the gentleman's comments.

One of those troops lived not far from me in a neighboring community 
in Minnesota. Lance Corporal Jonathan Schultze, a brave, proud marine 
who had returned from combat in Iraq, went to the VA suffering from 
PTSD, post-traumatic stress disorder, as well as alcoholism. He was 
told that there were no beds available at the VA, and he would be 
number 26 on the waiting list, that he will get a call in weeks, 
probably several months.

Well, 4 days later, Marine Lcpl Jonathan Schultze was found in his 
apartment hanging, hanging from an electrical cord. Just one victim, 
one brave marine who didn't have to die after sacrificing so much for 
his country in Iraq, one brave veteran who didn't receive the mental 
health treatment he needed and deserved.

And I thank my friend from Rhode Island and others who supported the 
Veterans Health Care Act. Hopefully, that legislation that we passed 
and was signed by the President earlier this year will help address 
that problem.

I also appreciate the gentleman from Rhode Island pointing out that 
the Paul Wellstone Mental Health Treatment Equity Act only addresses 
one aspect of the problem here, people who are being discriminated 
against in health plans. We also need to make sure our troops are 
getting the adequate mental health care that they need and deserve; our 
veterans, across the board, from all wars, are getting the treatment 
that they need and deserve; our Medicare seniors, you look at the rates 
as people are aging with our aging population, so is the incidence 
among people over 65, the incidence of alcoholism and drug addiction. 
We need to address the Medicare population as well.

The Medicaid population, there are roughly 26 million addicts and 
alcoholics in this country according to SAMPHSA, the Substance Abuse 
and Mental Health Administration. About 16 million of the 26 million 
alcoholics and addicts are in health plans, which means that at least 
10 million are either in Medicaid or have no insurance whatsoever. 
We've got to address that population as well.

And, finally, as the gentleman from Rhode Island knows well, 82 
percent of the people in prisons and jails in the United States are 
there directly or indirectly because of mental illness and/or 
addiction, and we're not treating, in our prisons and jails, we're not 
treating these problems, the underlying cause. And 99 percent of 
prisoners are going to get out some day, about one percent being 
capital offenders who presumably will be executed or will be staying 
there for the rest of their life without parole.