---
---

# SAN JACINTO DAY
## `241bbfd97ce816b47b06b0902b0a38c6`
`Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas — 21 April 2009`

---


Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to commemorate one of 
the most important events in Texas history, frankly, the history of the 
United States, San Jacinto Day.

Today, in 1836, roughly 900 Texan and Tejano volunteers overpowered a 
larger, professional Mexican army of conscript soldiers after defeats 
at Goliad and the Alamo. These outnumbered volunteers succeeded because 
they were fighting against tyranny and they were fighting for their 
families.

In the words of the Texas Declaration of Independence, the people's 
government had been ''forcibly changed, without their consent, from a 
restricted federative republic composed of sovereign states to a 
consolidated central military despotism.''

The Texas Revolution proved the bonds of freedom are stronger than 
ethnicity, as many Tejanos sacrificed their lives for Texas' freedom at 
the Battles of Gonzalez, Bexar, Goliad, the Alamo, and San Jacinto. The 
war was not between Anglos and Hispanics; it was a struggle between all 
Texans and military dictatorship in Mexico City.

Texans and Tejanos knew then what we know now--freedom requires 
sacrifice. And our young men and women going to or coming back from 
fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq are very aware of this.

Texans are renowned around the world for responding to the call of 
duty. We hold our heroes willing to sacrifice their lives for the 
betterment of their fellow man in the highest regard. I am proud to 
represent the site of the Battle of San Jacinto commemorated by the San 
Jacinto Monument.

Thanks to the San Jacinto Chapter of the Daughters of the Republic of 
Texas. Their hard work allowed for the preservation of the San Jacinto 
Battleground by petitioning the Texas Legislature to purchase the 
acreage and by donating their treasury to complete the sale in 1900. 
This San Jacinto Chapter of Daughters of the Republic of Texas and the 
Texas Veterans Association did tremendous work to ensure that the 
legacy lives on, and the importance of the park has only expanded since 
then. The park not only has the San Jacinto Monument to recognize the 
brave men and women, but it also includes the Battleship Texas, which 
is a symbol of sacrifices in World War I and World War II.

With the understanding of where they came from, Texans and Americans 
will continue to respond to the calls of service, thereby continuing 
their legacy of respect and admiration throughout the world.

God bless Texas and the United States.
