---
---

# RECOGNIZING 65TH ANNIVERSARY OF END OF WORLD WAR II
## `2430989c35593d5c9f3fab8d9d87ae26`
`Mr. DEUTCH — 20 July 2010`

---


Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I am privileged to represent a district 
that's home to a large number of World War II veterans, veterans to 
whom I feel a tremendous gratitude for their heroic service, and so 
many other veterans of my district who served bravely in Korea, 
Vietnam, the gulf war, and the ongoing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Our country has a sacred obligation to our troops, the brave 
servicemembers who risk their lives in defense of our country from the 
time they sign up to serve and well into their retirement.

I would like to thank Chairman Skelton for his work on behalf of our 
servicemembers, and in honoring the courage and bravery of our veterans 
on the 65th anniversary of the end of World War II with this 
resolution.

I would like to particularly mention just a few of the many Americans 
who served our country during World War II, veterans in my district 
like Will Lapidus, who sacrificed so much of themselves to serve this 
country in a time of great need. Josephine Anton was among the first 
women to join the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps. She left college in her 
last year to serve as a lieutenant in the WAACs. And like so many 
veterans, Josephine continues to seek out opportunities to serve her 
community.

I would also like to recognize Ed Safarty, who served with my late 
father Bernard Deutch. Their 84th Infantry Division fought valiantly at 
the Battle of the Bulge. My father volunteered to serve his country as 
a teenager, earned a Purple Heart, and like every veteran I know, 
shared his passionate patriotism with his children and with his 
community for the rest of his life.

The legacy of service and self-sacrifice from this generation of 
Americans, exemplified by these veterans and so many others, is 
humbling. Our country owes all servicemembers an enormous debt of 
gratitude. It's important to recognize the tremendous sacrifices as 
well that the families of our servicemembers make, whose invaluable 
support and encouragement is a gift to our Nation, and one that is too 
often overlooked.

Madam Speaker, I am proud to support House Resolution 1516 here on 
the House floor today. And to all the veterans and those servicemembers 
presently serving, as well as their families, I offer you my most 
profound thanks.