---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `2436ec1fcdf416f94268f2095f758d46`
`Mr. McCOTTER — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.

I appreciate the opportunity to address the Chair. I will resist the 
temptation to point out how my Tigers took two out of three from your 
Mets recently.

I, too, am Generation X and was interested in some of the remarks 
that were put forward on the floor. First, I do not know that the 
people who wrote the Federalist Papers and came up with the system of 
limited government would be rolling in their graves at any attempt that 
we engage in to stop the obfuscation of earmarks within a process that 
is less than transparent.

I would also like to note that it is my preference to refer to the 
bull in the china shop as the bull in the Communist China shop. And 
speaking of bull, let us not forget that for 4 days this Chamber dealt 
with little else than a nonbinding/impotent resolution on Iraq that 
resulted in absolutely nothing except the people's business being 
delayed for that period of time.

Today, we are here about earmarks and not in general, but in 
particular the process by which they are inserted into appropriation 
bills. It seems to me that one of the fundamental problems we have in 
addressing this is the lack of openness and transparency in the process 
and that is what this endeavor is about.

It would also strike me that in discussing this process, it is odd to 
hear the new majority using the President of the United States' budget 
requests as an absolute baseline of fiscal sanity when throughout the 
course of the last 4 years in which I have served in this body, they 
have decried this President of the United States as the epitome of 
fiscal insanity.

So a baseline request from the President is just that. It is a 
request.

Now, in many ways we are then bound as an institution to give 
deference to both the authorizing committees and then the appropriating 
committees. But we do not delegate carte blanche our individual power 
which is vested in us by our constituencies to then oversee the work 
product of both the authorizing committees and the appropriating 
committees.



Today we are engaged in trying to exercise and reaffirm the right of 
not only ourselves but of Members on the other side of the aisle to be 
able to exercise that power that has been temporarily vested in them by 
their constituents to fully and fairly vet these bills and to make sure 
that the appropriations are what they are claimed to be, and to make 
sure that they are put to the best, most efficient and effective 
purpose that they can be on behalf of the American people.

Part of the reason this is necessary is not everyone in this Chamber 
takes the same approach to earmarks as other Members might. Some 
Members do no earmarks at all. Some Members prefer to do many, many 
earmarks. And some Members, I cite myself, do earmarks at the request 
of their local municipalities so we can serve as conduits back to our 
States.

I come from Michigan. It is critical to us that we receive our fair 
share of Federal spending because we pay more than our fair share of 
Federal taxes. My State, Michigan, is a donor State. Michigan is 
currently in a one-state recession, and it is very important that our 
taxpayers receive their money back. But that is my individual approach. 
That approach has to be vetted by 434 of my colleagues here, and only 
an open and transparent process will ensure that if I have made a 
priority request through a earmark, it is in keeping with the best 
interest not only of my district but within the best interest of the 
entire American people.

It would seem to me this is a very reasonable approach, it is a very 
reasonable request, and it is a request that we are pressing today, as 
we did yesterday, and will continue to do so because it is part of our 
constitutional obligation we take as Members of this body.

Were we to do otherwise, it would be a dangerous precedent to set 
because in my mind we are tragically on the verge of coming up with a 
new kind of system which will allow very little transparency and 
openness and thus injure the ability of not only ourselves but the 
American people to know how their money is being spent.

In the past there was the old joke that in the Congress you had 
Republicans, Democrats and appropriators. If the process that we in the 
minority find so offensive is allowed to proceed, you will now have 
four distinct entities. You will have Republicans, you will have 
Democrats, you will have appropriators, and you will have super-
appropriators.

I don't know if the new super-appropriators get to make these 
decisions in the dead of night, also get to wear a cape and cowl, if 
they come with a sporty car so they can chase down Federal earmarks, or 
if they have a cave or a pole to slide down at their leisure as they go 
off to work to spend other people's money.

I think, however, this would be a tragic development and would oppose 
it.