# TRIBUTE TO GENERAL JAMES L. JONES
## `243830cf4774c6c1760314fddec5cdf7`
`Mr. SKELTON — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, let me take this opportunity to recognize 
the long and distinguish career of GEN James L. Jones. General Jones 
just completed his assignment as Supreme Allied Commander, Europe and 
Commander, U.S. European Command.

General Jones received a bachelor of science degree from the 
Georgetown University School of Foreign Service in 1966. He also 
attended the Basic School, the Amphibious Warfare School, and the 
National War College in Washington, DC.

General Jones was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Marine 
Corps where he was ordered to the Republic of Vietnam in January 1967. 
After serving as a Platoon and Company Commander he was promoted to 
First Lieutenant. He returned to the United States in December 1968 
where he served as a Company Commander at Camp Pendelton, CA. From May 
1970 to July 1973, General Jones served at Marine Barracks, Washington, 
DC, as a Company Commander. Remaining in Washington, General Jones 
served in the Officer Assignments Section at Headquarters Marine Corps 
where he was later appointed to Major and soon after served as the 
Marine Corps Liaison Officer to the United States Senate.

After being promoted to Lieutenant Colonel, General Jones was 
assigned to Camp Pendleton, CA, and in August 1987, returned to 
Headquarters Marine Corps where he served as Senior Aide to the 
Commandant of the Marine Corps. He was promoted to Colonel in April 
1988, where later General Jones would become Military Secretary to the 
Commandant.

General Jones was assigned as the Commanding Officer, 24th Marine 
Expeditionary Unit at Camp Lejeune, NC, where he participated in 
Operation Provide Comfort in Northern Iraq and Turkey. He was advanced 
to Brigadier General and was assigned to duties as Deputy Director, J-
3, U.S. European Command, Stuggart, Germany. During this tour of duty 
he was reassigned as Chief of Staff, Joint Task Force Provide Promise 
for operations in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia.

General Jones was advanced to the rank of Major General in July 1994, 
and was then assigned as Commanding General, 2d Marine Division, Marine 
Forces Atlantic, Camp Lejeune, NC. After serving as Director, 
Expeditionary Warfare Division (N85), Office of the Chief of Naval 
Operations, and then as the Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans, Policies, 
and Operations, Headquarters Marine Corps, General Jones was advanced 
to Lieutenant General.

General Jones served as the Military Assistant to the Secretary of 
Defense, and on July 1, 1999 became the 32nd Commandant of the United 
States Marine Corps. He assumed his duties as the Commander of U.S. 
European Command on January 16, 2003, and Supreme Allied Commander 
Europe on January 17, 2003.

General Jones' has been awarded the Defense Distinguished Service 
Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Silver Star Medal, Legion of Merit 
with four gold stars, Bronze Star Medal with Combat ''V'', and the 
Combat Action Ribbon.

Madam Speaker, I know the Members of the House will join me in paying 
tribute to GEN James L. Jones for his commitment to the United States 
Marine Corps and the safety and security of America.
