# WILLIAM C. TALLENT DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OUTPATIENT CLINIC
## `2451b59f4fd13e9f52a1a33c8d978ef2`
`Mr. BROUN of Georgia — 14 July 2009`

---


Mr. BROUN of Georgia. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, and I agree with my good 
friend Jimmy Duncan from Tennessee. We need more people in this country 
serving this Nation.

As I spoke earlier, I think we are doing a tremendous disservice to 
our


veterans in this country by not fulfilling the promises that we've made 
to them. The way that we can get more people into the military, the way 
that we can get more folks, good people, who will be willing to serve 
our Nation, is to be able to fulfill the promises that we give them on 
enlistment or on a commissioning.

We are not doing that. We are not fulfilling those promises. We are 
not giving those people the kind of health care that they so 
desperately need, and we are certainly not helping their spouses, 
because we are not giving them the health care financing that they need 
either.

So, Mr. Speaker, I rise today not only in support of this bill to 
name this facility in Knoxville after this hero, but we have to 
remember the heroes in Iraq and in Afghanistan today, those heroes I 
see at the VA hospital in Augusta, Georgia--the Charlie Norwood VA 
Medical Center--those heroes I see at the Eisenhower Medical Center in 
Fort Gordon, Georgia, those heroes who have lost a leg or an arm, those 
heroes who want to go back to their units in theater to continue to 
fight for our freedom.

We cannot turn our backs upon those heroes, just like we cannot turn 
our backs upon the past heroes. I think it's a travesty the way this 
government has treated our veterans. We're not doing them right. It 
verges on criminal because we have broken our promises, and we need to 
fulfill those promises, and I'll do everything I can as a Member of 
Congress in supporting the veterans in my 10th Congressional District 
in Georgia. As a physician, I understand their medical needs. I'll do 
everything I can as the Congressman from the 10th Congressional 
District of Georgia to make sure that our veterans have all of the 
promises made to them fulfilled. This government has broken promises. 
It continues to break promises. It has got to stop, and I'll do 
everything I can to fulfill those promises.

I thank the gentleman for yielding.