---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `2452549b550f172e45c54d34dc454259`
`Mr. McCAIN — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. He said:




 As drafted, the amendment would dramatically limit the 


 nation's ability to respond to other national security needs 


 while we remain engaged in Iraq or Afghanistan.


He said the amendment would cause the Army and Marine Corps to resort 
to force management options that would further damage the force and its 
effectiveness on the field and would result in the following actions 
for units deploying to Iraq and Afghanistan:




 Extension of units [in Iraq and Afghanistan] already 


 deployed beyond their current scheduled rotation.



 Creating ''gaps'' in combat capability as units would 


 rotate home without a follow-on unit being available to 


 replace them.


This, in turn, would squeeze ''the ability to continue the . . . 
practice of overlapping unit rotations to achieve smooth hand-offs and 
minimize casualties.'' And minimize casualties. That seems important, 
minimizing casualties.

Secretary Gates goes on. The Webb amendment would:




 Increase the use of 'in-lieu of' units that are either 


 minimally or not normally trained for the assigned mission.



 [Would] return to the cobbling together of new units from 


 other disparate units or unassigned personnel.


A practice discouraged by the adoption of a unit rotation policy. As 
a result of the Webb amendment, it would


result in the ''broader and more frequent mobilization of National 
Guard and Reserve units [which] would be inevitable.''

Secretary Gates, in his letter, said the Webb amendment would impose 
an unacceptable choice upon the President and our military to either, 
one, accelerate the rate of drawdown significantly beyond what General 
Petraeus has recommended, which he and all of our military commanders 
believe would not be prudent and would put at real risk the gains we 
have made on the ground in Iraq in the last few months; two, resorting 
to force management options that would further damage the force and its 
effectiveness in the field.

Not surprisingly, Secretary Gates has stated unequivocally that if 
this amendment were included in the authorization act, he would 
recommend the President veto it. I urge my colleagues to reject, again, 
the Webb amendment.

My friend from Nebraska, Senator Hagel, pointed out accurately--and 
he has played an incredible role--the terrific mistakes made in the 
conduct of this conflict under Secretary Rumsfeld and other leaders. 
This strategy, the Senator from Nebraska and I knew, was doomed to 
failure. As far back as 2003, we came back from Iraq and said: This 
strategy has to change or it is doomed to failure. As I have said, it 
was very much like watching a train wreck. Those mistakes and errors in 
the strategy have been well chronicled in a number of books that have 
been written, among them, and which I strongly recommend, ''Fiasco'' by 
Tom Ricks and ''Cobra II'' by General Trainor and Michael Gordon But we 
are where we are.

I would be glad, along with my friends from Nebraska and Virginia, to 
chronicle those many mistakes. Those mistakes were made with 
expressions of optimism which were, on their face, not comporting with 
the facts on the ground in Iraq: a few dead-enders, stuff happens, last 
throes, on and on. The fact is, the American people became frustrated, 
and they have become saddened and angry. Nothing is more moving than to 
know the families and loved ones of those who have sacrificed, nearly 
4,000 in this conflict, not to mention the tens of thousands who have 
been gravely wounded. But we have a new strategy. We have success on 
the ground.

As I said earlier, all of us are frustrated by the fact that the 
Maliki government has not functioned with anywhere near the 
effectiveness we need. We also acknowledge that there are portions of 
the national police which are ''corrupt,'' which is a kind word, a kind 
description. But the facts were made very clear last week by the 
President of Iran, the President of a country that has dedicated itself 
to the extinction of Israel, a country that is developing nuclear 
weapons, a country that is exporting explosive devices of the most 
lethal kind into Iraq today that are killing young Americans. He said: 
When the United States of America leaves Iraq, we will fill the void. 
That is what this conflict is now about. It may not have been that when 
we started. The President of Iran has made Iranian intentions very 
clear. The Saudis will feel that the Sunnis have to be helped. Syria 
continues to try to destabilize the Government of Lebanon and continues 
to arm and equip Hezbollah. By the way, there is a standing United 
Nations Security Council resolution that calls for the disarmament of 
Hezbollah. Has anybody seen any effect of that lately? Jordan has 
750,000 refugees in their small country.

The situation as regards Afghanistan, as far as Pakistan is 
concerned, is certainly murky at best, and perhaps we could see a 
nuclear-armed country, which Pakistan is, in the hands of people who 
may not be friendly to the United States or interested in controlling 
the Afghan-Pakistan border areas which are not under control now.

As Henry Kissinger wrote in the Washington Post over the weekend, a 
precipitous withdrawal would have profound consequences. As GEN Jim 
Jones testified, on the results of his commission, his last words were, 
a precipitous withdrawal would cause harm to America's national 
security interests, not only in Iraq but in the area.

The reason I point this out is because the effect of the Webb 
amendment--and whether it is intended by the Senator from Virginia or 
not but it is interpreted by many, including others whom I have 
quoted--would be to force precipitous withdrawal before the situation 
on the ground warranted.

I hope we understand that America is facing a watershed situation. We 
have grave challenges in Iraq. I believe if we set a date for 
withdrawal or, through this backdoor method, force a date for 
withdrawal, we will see chaos and genocide in the region, and we will 
be back.

I fully acknowledge to my friends and colleagues that we have paid a 
very heavy price in American blood and treasure because of failures for 
nearly 4 years. I understand their frustration. I understand their 
anger. But I am also hearing from the men and women serving in Iraq as 
we speak. Always throughout this long ordeal, the most professional and 
best- equipped and best-trained and bravest military this Nation has 
ever been blessed with were doing their job. They were doing their job 
under the most arduous conditions of warfare that any American, Army 
and Marine Corps and military, has ever been engaged, ever.

But now in the last few months, we are hearing a different message 
from these brave people; that is, they believe they are succeeding. 
They believe they are succeeding. In Anbar Province, the marines are 
walking in downtown Ramadi, which used to be Fort Apache. Neighborhoods 
in Baghdad are safer. They are not safe, but they are safer. Al-Qaida 
is being rejected in many areas. I pointed out the difficulties in the 
other part of it, but I also believe, from my study of history, that 
when you have a condition of military security, it is very likely and 
much more possible that the commercial, social, and political process 
moves forward in a successful fashion. I keep saying over and over: We 
have not seen that with the Maliki government, and we have every right 
to see it. But I believe the conditions have been created, if they 
seize it, that we will also see political progress in that country.

I believe the people of Iraq, not wanting to be Kurds or Sunni or 
Shia but Iraqis, harbor the same hopes and dreams and aspirations to 
live in a free and open society where they can send their kids to 
school and live in conditions of peace and harmony. That can be 
achieved over a long period of time.

Let me finally say that success in Iraq is long and hard and 
difficult, but I also believe the options are far worse than to pursue 
what has been succeeding.

This amendment will probably define our role in Iraq as to how this 
whole conflict will come out. I question no one's patriotism. I 
question no one's devotion to this country. I am sure there are Members 
on the other side of this issue, supporting this amendment, who are 
more dedicated than I am, perhaps. But the fact is, this is a watershed 
amendment. We need to defeat it. We need to make sure these brave young 
men and women who are now serving and succeeding have more opportunity 
to succeed and come home with honor. We all want them home. We don't 
want to see the spectacle of another defeated military. Overstressed, 
overdeployed, weary, but not defeated--that is our military today. The 
Webb amendment could easily bring about their defeat.

I yield the floor.