---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `2462ade24b7ac8d4dbe260bf55b7dde9`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 26 September 2007`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I am here to speak in support of 
amendment No. 2999, as amended. This is an amendment that is very 
important to me, and I appreciate the leadership of my colleagues 
Senator McCaskill and Senator Webb, and in fact all of the freshmen 
Democrats who are supporting this legislation, the goal of which is to 
bring more public accountability to the way our Government does 
business.

I think you and I both know, having spent the last 2 years going 
around our State, that people are yearning for more public 
accountability from our Government. They are yearning for more 
transparency. We heard calls for that--increased transparency. And here 
we have, in the area of Armed Services and the area of Government 
contracting, a chance to act on it.

This amendment establishes an independent, bipartisan commission to 
strengthen Government oversight and examine the true costs of a 
contracting culture that the Federal Government relies upon in Iraq. 
This idea is not unprecedented.

The legislation is inspired by the work of the Truman Commission and 
it is fitting Senator McCaskill is from Missouri, as was Truman. The 
Truman Commission, as you know, conducted hundreds of hearings and 
investigations into Government waste during World War II, at an 
estimated savings of more than $178 billion in today's dollars; $178 
billion. Think of what that would mean to the American taxpayer today 
at a time when we are spending somewhere between $10 to $12 billion a 
month in Iraq.

There is, unfortunately, a natural tendency in this country toward 
excess and corporate excess. So when people are given sort of unlimited 
contracts, no-bid contracts, I think you can expect excess.

I come from a prosecutor background. We know that when people are 
given leeway, and maybe even when they have the best intentions, the 
people in charge, the people on the ground, it leads to fraud and the 
Government is the one that is on the short end of the stick.

I think it is more than just a cost of doing business when we are 
looking at what we have been seeing in Iraq with private contractors 
over the last 5 years. The number of contractors in Iraq, the last 
estimate I had, was 180,000. It now exceeds the number of American 
combat troops in Iraq. We need to look at the effects these logistical 
and security contractors have on our military.

Now, I would say this: We are not talking about creating an 
additional bureaucracy. We are talking about expanding an 
infrastructure that already exists. The Special Inspector General for 
Iraq Reconstruction, with the excellent performance that we have seen 
in uncovering waste, fraud, and abuse in Iraq reconstruction projects, 
is proof of its ability to conduct more interagency examination of 
wartime contracts.

The special inspector general has proven to be a powerful tool in 
investigating reconstruction contracts. In 2005 alone, he reported a 
loss of $9 billion tax due to a contractor's inefficiency and bad 
management.

I can tell you this, in my job as county attorney, when we had a case 
in front of us, we would always say: Follow the money and you would 
find the bad guy.

Well, we need to do more of that with Iraqi contractors. This motto 
could not be more true than it is today as the GAO, the Defense 
Contract Audit Agency, and news reports continue to expose gross 
mismanagement in defense contracting.

That is why I am so proud to support this amendment. We have heard 
that of the $57 billion awarded in contracts for reconstruction in Iraq 
that was investigated, approximately $10 billion has been wasted; $4.9 
billion was lost through contractor overpricing and waste; $5.1 billion 
was lost through unsupported contract charges. Of this $10 billion, 
more than $2.7 billion was charged by Halliburton. This means almost 1 
in 6 Federal tax dollars sent to rebuild Iraq has been wasted. And 
while we have heard in dollars the staggering amount, this waste 
amount, $10 billion, the costs of mismanaged contracts extends beyond 
that.

For instance, if you look at the electricity in Baghdad, you have 
seen the city only enjoying an average of 6.5 hours of electricity a 
day. It has actually gone down from where it was a year ago.

Water. Congress has provided nearly $2 billion to provide clean 
drinking water and repair sewer systems. But according to the World 
Health Organization, 70 percent of Iraqis lack access to clean drinking 
water.

With jobs, the Defense Department has estimated that the unemployment 
rate is anywhere from 13.6 percent to 60 percent. In a recent survey, 
only 16 percent of Iraqis said their current incomes met their basic 
needs. These costs in every way are unacceptable. They are unacceptable 
to the people of Iraq, and they are unacceptable to the taxpayers of 
this country.

My colleagues and I--and you are one of them, Mr. President--came to 
Washington demanding accountability. Today I am proud to be part of a 
group that supports an important amendment to bring more transparency, 
to bring accountability to contracting in Iraq.

I yield the floor.