# TRIBUTE TO LANCE CORPORAL DONALD JAMES HOGAN
## `24630e1348743d929355b48bcbcc29f8`
`Mr. CALVERT — 10 September 2009`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a hero from my 
congressional district, Lance Corporal Donald James Hogan, United 
States Marine Corps. Today I ask that the House of Representatives 
honor and remember this incredible young man who died in service to our 
country.

Lance Corporal Hogan graduated from Tesoro High School in 2007 and 
fulfilled his dream to follow in his grandfather's footsteps by joining 
the U.S. Marine Corps. His grandfather reached the rank of Gunnery 
Sergeant and Lance Corporal Hogan wanted to match his grandfather's 
success through a career in the Marine Corps. He was assigned to 1st 
Battalion, 5th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, 1st Marine 
Expeditionary Force at Camp Pendleton.

Hogan is remembered by friends as supportive, loyal and unselfish. He 
was a cross country runner in high school and his teammates recall his 
encouraging spirit that got them across the finish line. On Wednesday, 
August 26, 2009, Lance Corporal Hogan was killed while on a foot patrol 
in southern Afghanistan when a roadside bomb went off nearby in a blast 
that also injured several other Marines. He was 20 years old. Lance 
Corporal Hogan is survived by his father Jim, mother Carla, and sister 
Adrianna.

As we look at the incredibly rich military history of our country we 
realize that this history is comprised of men, just like Lance Corporal 
Hogan, who bravely fought for the ideals of freedom and democracy. Each 
story is unique and humbling for those of us who, far from the dangers 
they have faced, live our lives in relative comfort and ease. The day 
the Hogan family learned of their son and brother's death was probably 
the hardest day they have ever faced and my thoughts, prayers and 
deepest gratitude for Lance Corporal Hogan's sacrifice goes out to 
them. There are no words that can relieve their pain and what words I 
can offer only begin to convey my deep respect and highest 
appreciation.

Lance Corporal Hogan's family have all given a part of themselves in 
the loss of their loved one and I hope they know that their son and 
brother, the goodness he brought to this world and the sacrifice he has 
made, will never be forgotten.
