---
---

# IN RECOGNITION OF GENERAL VICTOR E. RENUART, JR.
## `24693fa009300a7795eed5d343e21478`
`Mr. LAMBORN — 7 September 2007`

---


Mr. LAMBORN. Madam Speaker, I rise in recognition of United States 
Air Force General Victor E. Renuart, Jr. who, on March 19, 2007, 
assumed command of North American Aerospace Defense Command and United 
States Northern Command both of which are located at Peterson Air Force 
Base in the Fifth Congressional District of Colorado.

General Renuart began his distinguished career with the United States 
Air Force in 1971 and completed Officer Training School in 1972. After 
commanding the 76th Tactical Fighter Squadron during Operation Desert 
Shield and Operation Desert Storm, General Renuart was appointed, in 
1992, Director of Assignments, Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel, 
Headquarters, U.S. Air Forces in Europe. He then went on to become 
Commander, Headquarters Support Group, Allied Air Forces Central 
Europe, NATO at Ramstein Air Force Base in Germany. He has served as 
Director of Plans for the NATO Combined Air Operations Center, 
Commander of the 52nd Fighter Wing, Commander of the 347th Fighter 
Wing, and in 2000 took command of Joint Task Force-Southwest Asia and 
the 9th Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force-Southwest Asia.

After serving as Director of Operations for U.S. Central Command 
where he supervised all joint and allied combat, as well as 
humanitarian and reconstruction operations for Operation Enduring 
Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, General Renuart became Vice 
Commander of Pacific Air Forces and Director of


Strategic Plans and Policy on the Joint Staff. Most recently, General 
Renuart was the Senior Military Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, 
in which capacity he also served as the senior military liaison to the 
military services for the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the combatant 
commands.

I would like to extend my sincere gratitude to General Renuart for 
his service to our Nation and I congratulate him on this most recent 
achievement. NORAD and NORTHCOM are vital to our national security, and 
I am pleased that they will be under the command of such a capable and 
esteemed leader as General Renuart.
