# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `246c695100224e6a3b57f47743c294be`
`Mr. ORTIZ — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. ORTIZ. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this bill--engineered 
by my colleague from Texas Mr. Edwards--which funds vital military 
accounts and provides the largest increase in veterans funding in the 
history of the VA.

While the central concern for South Texas is a veterans hospital--I 
understand we must authorize that funding before we can appropriate it. 
I have talked about this issue with appropriators and authorizers alike 
. . . and those conversations will continue until we find a resolution 
to help these veterans get the in patient care they deserve.

The Congress is committed to working in a bipartisan way to ensure 
that our budget honors the service of our veterans and builds a future 
worthy of their sacrifice. With passage of this bill, the 110th 
Congress will have voted for historic increases in veterans' health 
care and benefits programs, totaling nearly $12 billion--including the 
joint resolution and the supplemental--to meet the needs of returning 
veterans from Iraq and Afghanistanm . . . and make up for the Bush 
Administration's past shortcomings in its treatment of veterans.

This bill will provide veterans with the health care and benefits we 
promised them, resulting in the hiring of more qualified doctors and 
nurses to improve medical services to our veterans and to reduce 
waiting times for doctor appointments, and provide more to help 
veterans suffering from traumatic brain injury (TBI), post traumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD), mental health care issues, and lost limbs so 
that they can rebuild their lives.

For the first time, the budget for VA medical care exceeds the budget 
of the veterans' service organizations by $294 million. This will 
ensure quality health care for 5.8 million patients, including about 
263,000 Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, which the VA will treat in FY 
2008. This significantly reduces the 400,000 claims backlog for 
veterans waiting for disability and other benefits by adding more than 
1,100 new claims processors.

The bill also provides much needed maintenance of VA health care 
facilities (funding level is $500 million above the President's 
request) to prevent another Walter Reed-type scandal from occurring. A 
recent VA report outlined 1,000 specific problems at VA health 
facilities around the country, with a backlog of $5 billion in 
maintenance.

The enormous number of troops returning home with mental health 
disorders, including PTSD and traumatic brain injury, resulted in the 
bill including five polytrauma centers and three Centers of Excellence 
for Mental Health and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). These 
centers will be fully operational this year to care for those returning 
from Iraq and Afghanistan, including those with TBI. A February GAG 
report noted about one-third of veterans returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan are facing mental health challenges, and up to 300,000 
troops are expected to return from Iraq suffering from TBI.

The bill also protects taxpayers and veterans by including solid 
steps to ensure accountability and stop wasteful spending by increasing 
funding for the Inspector General for VA to improve services for 
veterans and their families and to prevent and deter potential waste, 
fraud and inefficiencies.

To strengthen our military, this bill provides better barracks, 
housing and training facilities when troops return from combat with an 
unprecedented $21.4 billion investment in military construction, family 
housing, and BRAC--


with $207 million more than the President's request.

To address end strength, the bill provides funding recommended by my 
subcommittee to begin the process of adding 65,000 Army, 27,000 Marine, 
and 9,000 National Guard and Reserve troops.

For BRAC, the bill fully funds the 2005 base realignment and closure 
process at $8.2 billion, and supports the relocation of 70,000 troops 
from bases in Korea and Europe.

All this represents the start we need to pay for a healthy and vital 
military force to protect our nation today, tomorrow and for the coming 
decades.