# None
## `2478215bee557d5aec198b706d7401b1`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this measure 
before us today because it provides a clearly needed change in course 
in Iraq. The President has placed roughly 160,000 of our troops in a 
highly vulnerable position--refereeing a civil war--while the various 
factions in Iraq have not made adequate progress toward reconciliation. 
The needed political reconciliation among these groups will not happen 
until we make it clear to the Iraqis that our occupation is coming to 
an end.

But our open-ended occupation of Iraq is not only not working; it's 
working against us. It undermines our fight against al-Qaeda and 
provides extremists a rallying point. We have every indication that al-
Qaeda is resurgent in Pakistan, that bin Laden finds himself stronger


than ever, and that al-Qaeda-linked groups are growing in number and 
audacity. We need to responsibly redeploy our troops from Iraq so we 
can better fight this growing threat.

I initially had concerns with some of the language in this measure 
regarding funds for troops deployed to Iraq since January of this year. 
But after examining the bill more closely, I do not believe any 
provision in this bill would alter funding in a way that would put 
troops currently in the field at risk. The bottom line is that we must 
send a clear message to the President that we must change direction in 
Iraq and redeploy our troops.
