---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `247aed989fe6beea23be6cc669c50521`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 25 February 2010`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. First of all, Madam Chair, I want to thank the


Rules Committee for making this amendment in order. It is a very 
straightforward amendment, and it's one that I think is very, very 
important because the CIA has been under such intense criticism over 
the last several months--maybe the last few years--that it's time to 
let them know and the people of this country know that we really 
appreciate what they're doing to secure the safety of this country.

What the bill does is:

It honors the Central Intelligence Agency for its contributions to 
the security of the United States and our allies;

It recognizes the Central Intelligence Agency's unique role in 
combating terrorism;

It praises the Central Intelligence Agency for its success in foiling 
recent terrorist plots and capturing senior members of al Qaeda;

It thanks the Central Intelligence Agency for its crucial support of 
U.S. military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq;

It commends the men and women who gave their lives defending the 
U.S.--named and unnamed; and, finally,

It urges the Central Intelligence Agency to continue its dedicated 
work in the field of intelligence gathering in order to protect the 
people of the United States.

I believe that all of us would agree with everything that is in this 
amendment. But I'd like to add just a couple of things that I've been 
watching during this debate that really concerns me.



There is language in here that is going to, I think, have an adverse 
impact on the Central Intelligence Agency's agents who are out in the 
field and doing their job and are trying to protect us against the 
terrorists. You know, some of the things that they say may be abrasive 
or objectionable to some of the people they are interrogating. The way 
this language reads, it could be interpreted to mean that they are 
guilty of not following the intent of the law in dealing with the 
terrorists.

Also, there are prison sentences for people who are involved in 
terrorist or torturous activities such as ''waterboarding.'' I would 
like to point out to my colleagues, many of whom don't know this, 
waterboarding has been a technique that has been used in the training 
of U.S. Navy SEALs and our Special Forces people over the years.

Now, let me say that one more time. Waterboarding and other 
techniques have been used in the training of our Navy SEALs so they 
would know how to deal with an enemy if they were captured, and it's 
been used by Special Forces military personnel in their training. So it 
has never been considered torture by our own military personnel.

Now, we have three Navy SEALs right now that are being court-
martialed, and they are being court-martialed because they captured an 
al Qaeda terrorist in Fallujah in Iraq. And this al Qaeda terrorist 
took four American contractors, tortured them, dragged them through the 
streets, burned their bodies and hung them from a bridge.

He also cut off the head of a leading person that was over there 
gathering news and information for the news media. This guy is really 
an out-and-out horrible terrorist. Now, when he was captured he was 
turned over to the Iraqi military for 2 days, and he came back and he 
said that he had been hit in the stomach and they split his lip, and 
because of that these three Navy SEALs are being prosecuted. They are 
being prosecuted in a court martial.

What kind of a message does that send to our Navy SEALs, to the 
people in the field who are capturing and fighting these al Qaeda and 
Taliban terrorists? What kind of a message does that send? We are 
trying to send the same kind of message to the CIA operatives who are 
out there trying to get information that will protect this country and 
protect the American people around the world against these people who 
want to destroy us and want to destroy our way of life.

It really bothers me, and I do appreciate the House approving this 
amendment that I have introduced. Obviously it's something that I think 
is very important. But, in addition to that, I don't believe we ought 
to be sending a message to the CIA or the Navy SEALs or our Special 
Forces men and women in the field that we are not going to back them up 
when they go out and get a terrorist or extract information from them 
that is vital in securing the safety of the people of this country.

One of the al Qaeda terrorists they are going to bring to New York. 
The main al Qaeda terrorist that was involved in the 9/11 attack, after 
he was waterboarded about 80 times, and he wouldn't give up 
information, he finally did. He said that there was an attempt going to 
be made to fly a plane into a building in Los Angeles. Had he not 
choked up and given that information, we might have lost another 2,000 
or 3,000 people like we did on 9/11.

It just seems silly to me and crazy to me that we are not going to 
allow our intelligence-gathering operatives to do their job. We ought 
to be supporting them completely day and night in anything they do to 
protect this Nation.







[From the National Review Online, Feb. 25, 2010]

 While You Are Distracted by the Summit, Obama Democrats Are Targeting 
















the CIA














 (By Andy McCarthy)




 The Obama Democrats have outdone themselves.



 While the country and the Congress have their eyes on 


 today's dog-and-pony show on socialized medicine, House 


 Democrats last night stashed a new provision in the 


 intelligence bill which is to be voted on today. It is an 


 attack on the CIA: the enactment of a criminal statute that 


 would ban ''cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment.''



 The provision is impossibly vague--who knows what 


 ''degrading'' means? Proponents will say that they have 


 itemized conduct that would trigger the statute (I'll get to 


 that in a second), but it is not true. The proposal says the 


 conduct reached by the statute ''includes but is not limited 


 to'' the itemized conduct. (My italics.) That means any 


 interrogation tactic that a prosecutor subjectively believes 


 is ''degrading'' (e.g., subjecting a Muslim detainee to 


 interrogation by a female CIA officer) could be the basis for 


 indicting a CIA interrogator.



 The act goes on to make it a crime to use tactics that have 


 been shown to be effective in obtaining life saving 


 information and that are far removed from torture.



 ''Waterboarding'' is specified. In one sense, I'm glad 


 they've done this because it proves a point I've been making 


 all along. Waterboarding, as it was practiced by the CIA, is 


 not torture and was never illegal under U.S. law. The reason 


 the Democrats are reduced to doing this is: what they've been 


 saying is not true--waterboarding was not a crime and it was 


 fully supported by congressional leaders of both parties, who 


 were told about it while it was being done. On that score, it 


 is interesting to note that while Democrats secretly tucked 


 this provision into an important bill, hoping no one would 


 notice until it was too late, they failed to include in the 


 bill a proposed Republican amendment that would have required 


 full and complete disclosure of records describing the 


 briefings members of Congress received about the Bush CIA's 


 enhanced interrogation program. Those briefings, of course, 


 would establish that Speaker Pelosi and others knew all about 


 the program and lodged no objections. Naturally, members of 


 Congress are not targeted by this criminal statute--only the 