# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `247f6ebefeec592d5c469d0a274e5613`
`Mr. BROWN — 25 January 2007`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I grew up in Mansfield, OH, a small, blue-
collar city in the middle of America, a town of famous names--junior 
highs named after U.S. Secretary of State John Sherman and the 
legendary Johnny Appleseed; factories called Westinghouse and Tappan 
Stove and Fisher Body. Like many of our country's greatest cities and 
our Nation's most comfortable small towns, Mansfield has a Park Avenue 
and a Main Street, a Central Park and a town square, a Carnegie Library 
and a corner drugstore.

In those days, people who worked hard, who paid their taxes, who 
played by the rules just about always had something to show for it. 
Almost everyone--virtually almost everyone--in my hometown believed 
that their children would enjoy a better life than they did. The more 
productive they were--insurance salesmen and factory worker, clerk and 
farmer--the better off they would be. The harder they worked, the more 
opportunity for their children. The middle class and all that it meant 
was much closer to them and for them than a distant aspiration.

One-third of this body, 32 of my colleagues, came off the campaign 
trail victorious last November. Ten of us joined the Senate earlier 
this month. We are here for a reason. We are here because for too long 
Government betrayed the middle class.

In recent years, Ohioans have watched the drug companies write the 
Medicare law, the oil industry dictate our Nation's energy policy, the 
insurance companies shape our health care. And perhaps worst of all, 
many of our largest corporations, untethered to any community, have 
forced through a willing and compliant Congress job-killing trade 
agreements which outsource our jobs, divide our families, and hurt our 
communities.

We are here because Ohioans and people across our land understand the 
words of Pope John Paul II:




 We judge any economic system by what it does for and to 


 ordinary people and by how it permits all to participate in 


 it. The economy should serve the people, not the other way 


 around.


We are here because we have heard from people who have worked hard 
and played by the rules all their lives, yet have so little to show for 
it. I met a man at the free clinic in Youngstown who had all but given 
up because of his diabetes. He came to the free clinic, his blue eyes 
tearing up, because his daughter insisted, he told me, that she simply 
wanted him to live. The number of free clinics in Ohio--a rich State in 
a rich country, a State known for some of the best medical facilities 
in the world--has doubled in the last decade. In rural Appalachia, the 
small community of Lottridge in Athens County is suffering from such 
staggering job loss that the local food bank now serves more than 200 
local families. And to maintain their sense of community pride and 
togetherness, the food bank workers put up curtains and decorations to 
resemble a general store, not a place of charity.

A worker in Jackson, locked out of his factory because the company 
refused to negotiate with the union and now without health care, told 
me his doctor advised him he needed heart surgery. ''I take aspirin 
every day instead,'' he said, hoping his heart lasts longer than the 
lockout.

A woman in Cincinnati suffering from hypertension, high blood 
pressure, and diabetes told me, with fear in her voice, that she was 
about to fall in the doughnut hole in the new Medicare prescription 
drug law. She needs help, but she was hiding it from her family. ''I'm 
so ashamed,'' she sobbed, as if it were her fault.

Last fall, my wife Connie was waiting in line at the local drugstore 
in the affluent community of Shaker Heights. The woman in front of her 
was, for all intents and purposes, negotiating prices with the 
pharmacist to save money. ''What if I cut my pill in half and then take 
it twice a day,'' she asked. The very understanding pharmacist told her 
the doctor wants her to take her full medication twice a day. ''But 
isn't it better, since I can't afford this, to take half a pill twice a 
day than the whole pill just once?'' she asked. My wife asked the 
pharmacist: How often does this happen? ''Every day,'' the pharmacist 
shrugged, ''Every day, all day long.''

At one time, our Government looked out for its people. I wear on my 
lapel a pin depicting a canary in a birdcage. A mine worker, 100 years 
ago, used to take a canary down in the mines. The mine worker had no 
government that cared enough to help him and no union strong enough to 
help him. He was on his own. In those days, a child born in this 
country had a life expectancy of about 46 or 47 years. Today we live 
three decades longer because of what this Government has done. People 
of faith, people in their union halls, advocates for children and for 
women and for the poor have pushed this Government to pass clean air 
and safe drinking water laws, to pass Medicare and Medicaid and 
workers' compensation and mine safety laws to protect the elderly and 
the disabled and women and children. Today it seems to be a different 
story.

Will and Ariel Durant, who probably have documented a wider sweep of 
history than any writers of the 20th century, warned us:




 No society has survived without a middle class.


Something is profoundly wrong with our economy. The CEO of a major 
retail company recently was awarded a $210 million severance package 
after the company's stock value dropped. Yet our Nation's working 
families, Ohio's middle-class families, often cannot afford to send 
their sons and daughters to school. The Nation's wealthiest 1 percent 
control as much wealth as 90 percent of the rest of us combined, yet 47 
million of us do not have health insurance. That class difference is a 
threat to our democratic system. A minimum wage worker earns less than 
$11,000 a year, yet some CEOs in our country make more than $11,000 an 
hour.

Today we consider legislation to raise the minimum wage from $5.15 to 
$7.25 an hour. In the last decade, our Government has failed to raise 
the minimum wage but given ourselves six pay increases. Those who plan 
to vote against the minimum wage in this Chamber, those who for 10 
years have blocked a minimum wage increase in the House of 
Representatives and in this body, are saying to the single mother 
working as a chambermaid in a Cleveland hotel, to a farm worker outside 
Toledo, to a janitor in Zanesville, those who plan to vote against the 
minimum wage are telling those minimum wage workers that they don't 
deserve a fraction of what we get, not even a fraction.

There have been failures, to be sure, in this institution. And there 
have been great moments.

Today, I am joined on the floor of the Senate by Senator Byrd of West 
Virginia. Three weeks ago, I stood next to him as I was sworn in for my 
first term and he was sworn in for his ninth term. More than 4 years 
ago, in October of 2002, Senator Byrd stood in this Chamber and spoke 
with prophetic wisdom about the pending war with Iraq. He instructed 
and taught millions of Americans, and he, with Senator Kennedy, 
inspired and emboldened many of us in the House of Representatives. I 
was a House Member then. More than 130 of us voted against that war. He 
warned us then that authorizing war in Iraq was ''both blind and 
improvident.''


''We are rushing into war,'' he said, ''without fully discussing why, 
without


thoroughly considering the consequences, or without making any attempt 
to explore what steps we might take to avert conflict.''

I thank the senior Senator from my neighboring State of West 
Virginia.

The 110th Congress brings with it the breath of bipartisanship too 
long absent from our discourse. Democrats and Republicans alike are 
already working toward rebuilding our Nation's middle class. Earlier 
this week, I stood with Senator Dorgan of North Dakota and Senator 
Graham of South Carolina as we called for a new direction in our trade 
policy. I look forward to more of the same. Our Government needs to 
stand up for the middle class. We know why our constituents sent us 
here. We need to get to work. Raising the minimum wage is a very 
important first step.

We must also work to create an alternative energy industry that not 
only fosters development of renewable fuels but also creates solid 
middle-class jobs and new businesses. We must invest in education at 
all levels. We must provide for our veterans. We must lower the cost of 
prescription drugs and make health care more affordable. And we must 
finally bring our troops home from Iraq.

There is much work to do in this Congress. The people of this Nation 
have placed great trust in our ability to transcend partisanship. We 
cannot, we must not violate that trust.

I thank the Chair.