---
---

# SPECIALIST PETER J. NAVARRO POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `24a3e197a5076f003c02f7b5491b8456`
`Mr. AKIN — 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6169, a bill I 
introduced to honor the life of Peter J. Navarro by designating the 
post office in Baldwin, Missouri, as the ''Specialist Peter J. Navarro 
Post Office Building.''

A resident of Wildwood, Missouri, Specialist Peter Navarro was part 
of Company A, 2nd Battalion, 70th Armor Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat 
Team, 1st Armored Division. On December 13, 2005, Specialist Navarro 
was one of four soldiers killed when a roadside bomb detonated near 
their Humvee during combat operations in Taji, Iraq.

A graduate of Lafayette High School, Peter declined his acceptance at 
Truman State University so he could join the Army right after 
graduation.

When Peter returned home for his younger brother's funeral, he was 
faced with the undeniable risks of serving his country; however, he 
returned to Iraq, telling friends and family ''they need me there.'' 
Peter was a dedicated soldier willing to give the ultimate sacrifice to 
protect his country and the men and women who reside there.

As Peter's father, Jose Navarro, said, ''He cared for the soldiers he 
worked with. He would do anything for his friends. And he told me he 
believed in the mission that he was involved in.''

As a father of two marines, one of whom has served in Iraq, it is a 
privilege to stand here today to honor one of our fallen soldiers. 
Peter's commitment and dedication to his country is a shining example 
of how our military men and women are the finest our Nation has to 
offer.

His and his family's sacrifice should serve as a reminder to all that 
the freedom we enjoy as Americans is not free, but the result of the 
tremendous bravery and selfless service of men and women willing to put 
themselves in harm's way for freedom's cause.

Our Nation will be forever indebted to Specialist Peter Navarro. Mr. 
Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me today in honoring Peter by 
voting ''yes'' on H.R. 6169.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.