---
---

# None
## `24cf707580476ba72656a772b023b9d4`
`Mr. LEAHY — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Presiding 
Officer. I want the distinguished Presiding Officer to know the weather 
in our home State is much nicer today than it is here.

I support the Free Flow of Information Act, S. 2035, which the 
distinguished majority leader has moved to. I hope the minority will 
allow us to consider this important legislation.

I thank the majority leader for his willingness to bring this 
legislation before the Senate. I have worked with him on this matter to 
find an opportunity for Senate action since the Judiciary Committee 
reported this bill last October. I appreciate the support of the 
majority leader. He has offered a generous response to the bipartisan 
request Senator Specter and I made to him and the Republican leader 
earlier this year to proceed to this bill. In a bipartisan letter, we 
asked if he would proceed to the bill. He has done that. I applaud him 
for it.

Our bill has 20 Senate cosponsors, Members of both parties. I hope 
the Republican cosponsors will join us in moving to the bill and will 
bring along the seven or eight Republicans we will need to overcome yet 
another filibuster and make progress.

I have also supported and urged the Senate to proceed to the strong 
House-passed version of the Free Flow of Information Act, H.R. 2102. 
That bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 398 to 21--
so it obviously has overwhelming bipartisan support. The House bill has 
more than 70 cosponsors--both Republicans and Democrats alike.

Years ago, my mother and father owned a small daily newspaper in 
Waterbury, VT, the Waterbury Record. As a child, I grew up hearing, at 
the kitchen table, that a free and vibrant press is essential to a free 
society. That has been demonstrated again and again over the last eight 
years. That is why I cosponsored the Senate version of this bill and I 
have worked hard to enact a meaningful reporters' shield law this year.

That is why I made sure that for the first time ever--for the first 
time ever--the Senate Judiciary Committee reported a media shield law 
to protect the public's right to know. The Judiciary Committee reported 
a bill sponsored by Senators Lugar, Dodd, Specter, Schumer, Graham, and 
myself with a strong bipartisan 15-to-4 vote.

I wish to commend the leadership of Senator Lugar and Senator Dodd in 
connection with this matter. They began this quest for fairness when it 
seemed an impossibility several years ago. They have worked diligently 
to bring us to where we are today--at the cusp of achieving a Federal 
shield law--if only the Senate gets the support of a handful of 
Republican Senators to proceed to the bill.

All of us--whether Republican, Democratic or Independent--have an 
interest in enacting a balanced and meaningful shield bill to ensure a 
free flow of information to the American people. Forty-nine States and 
the District of Columbia currently have codified or common law 
protections for confidential source information. But even with these 
State law protections, the press remains the first stop, rather than 
the stop of last resort, for our Government and private litigants when 
it comes to seeking information. Time and time again--especially during 
the years when this Congress refused to do real oversight of the 
current administration--when there was waste in Government, when there 
were serious mistakes in Government, even when Government was breaking 
the law, we found out about it first and foremost because of the press 
in America.


Earlier this year, Toni Locy, a professor of journalism at West 
Virginia University, also a former USA TODAY reporter, was held in 
contempt of court for refusing to divulge her confidential sources. 
There are scores of other reporters who have been questioned by Federal 
prosecutors about their sources, notes, and reports in recent years. 
This is a dangerous trend that can have a chilling effect on the press, 
but even more so, on the public's right to know. If you don't have a 
free press,


then you don't have a free society. If you don't have a way for 
Americans to know what their Government is doing, then we will all 
hurt. To paraphrase Mark Twain, you should support your country all the 
time but question your government when it deserves it. We need a press 
willing and able to do that.

Enacting the Free Flow of Information Act--which carefully balances 
the need to protect confidential source information with the need to 
protect law enforcement and national security interests--would help to 
reverse this troubling trend and benefit all Americans. The bill 
creates a qualified privilege to protect journalists from being forced 
to reveal their confidential sources. The bill contains exceptions to 
the privilege for criminal conduct or national security. The 
legislation also requires that Federal courts weigh the need for the 
information with the public's interest in the free flow of information, 
before compelling reporters to disclose their confidential sources.

Although I strongly support the enactment of a Federal shield law, I 
have some reservations about possible revisions to the bill we passed 
out of Committee. I am pleased that language has been drafted to 
address my concerns about making sure that legitimate bloggers and 
freelance journalists are included in the definition of the persons 
covered by this bill.

However, I hope that any amendments to this legislation will include 
stronger protections for journalists and their sources with regard to 
matters of national security and classified information. No one would 
quibble with the notion that there are circumstances when the 
Government can and should have the right to compel information in order 
to keep us safe. But many newsworthy stories concerning national 
security, such as the exceptional reporting on the CIA's secret prisons 
and the warrantless--and many feel illegal--wiretapping by the National 
Security Agency were published with the help of confidential sources, 
to the great benefit of the general public and the accountability that 
ordinary Americans deserve from their Government.

I fear that proposals from some in this body do not go far enough to 
protect against Government abuse in this area or to protect the 
public's interest in the dissemination of newsworthy information.

Not all reporters will be as lucky as Bill Gertz of the Washington 
Times was when a judge recently upheld his claim in a case in a 
California Federal court. Even with this victory, however, the 
Government has responded by broadening its inquiries. To prevent 
further intrusions on our fundamental first amendment rights, we need 
some uniform standards. We need procedures to evaluate claims of 
privilege and protect the public's right to know. To do that, of 
course, the Congress must act.

In a much touted speech to the American Enterprise Institute last 
week, current Attorney General Mukasey, who still opposes a Federal 
shield law, articulated principles that argue for enacting one. 
Attorney General Mukasey endorsed congressional legislative action when 
there exists a ''serious risk of inconsistent rulings and considerable 
uncertainty.'' He noted that congressional action to provide procedures 
in national security cases is ''well within the historic role and 
competence of Congress.'' Although he was proposing action in another 
setting, the Attorney General's remarks likewise support congressional 
action to standardize and clarify the procedures governing a Federal 
statutory press shield law. In view of the disparate rulings and 
outcomes that have developed in the courts since the Supreme Court's 
Branzburg decision 36 years ago, it is now time for Congress to 
establish a framework for the courts to resolve press privilege 
assertions fairly and consistently, and we can do this while preserving 
our national security.

When he testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee in favor of 
the Federal shield law in 2005, William Safire told us that the essence 
of news gathering is this: If you do not have sources you trust and who 
trust you, then you don't have a solid story--and the public suffers 
for it. Well, Bill Safire is exactly right. We simply have no idea how 
many newsworthy stories have gone unwritten and unreported out of fear 
that a reporter would be forced to reveal a source or face jail time. 
We also do not know how many potential whistleblowers, or other 
confidential sources, have chosen to remain silent out of fear that 
journalists could be compelled to disclose their identity.

Just recently, investigative journalism and confidential sources have 
helped to uncover significant Government failures in Iraq, in New 
Orleans, as well as Government neglect at the Walter Reed Medical 
Center. We wouldn't have found out how poorly the returning soldiers 
were being treated--people who have lost limbs or have been paralyzed 
or blinded in the war in Iraq--by the Veterans' Administration and the 
problems and events at our Government facilities. We would not have 
found out about that if a confidential source hadn't told a reporter.

We have seen just in the past few days news articles about 
politicization at the Department of Justice. A lot of the spotlight on 
how politicized this administration's Justice Department has become 
came out of hearings we held in the Judiciary Committee. But much of 
what we found out about what was going on at the Justice Department 
came out of press reports based on confidential sources.


We learned from the press that the White House, afraid that they 
might find out the truth, avoided implementing the Environmental 
Protection Agency's recommendations on global warming by not opening 
the agency's e-mails. Again, we find out about that from confidential 
sources.

As a former prosecutor, I understand the importance of making sure 
that the Government can effectively investigate criminal wrongdoing, 
combat terrorism, and preserve national security. The Federal shield 
legislation we are seeking to bring before the Senate strikes a balance 
among these important objectives. The bill addresses the legitimate 
need for law enforcement to obtain information from reporters to 
prevent a crime or a national security threat.

In addition, by providing a qualified and not an absolute privilege 
to withhold the identity of confidential sources, the bill also 
advances other important law enforcement objectives, such as 
encouraging whistleblowers to disclose fraud, waste, and abuse that 
might otherwise go unreported.

The opposition to this carefully crafted bill by the Department of 
Justice and Office of the Director of National Intelligence, ODNI, is 
simply misplaced. Although 49 States, the District of Columbia, and 
several Federal courts have recognized a reporter's privilege either by 
statute or common law for years, the Department of Justice and ODNI 
have not cited a single circumstance where the privilege caused any 
harm to national security or to law enforcement. In fact, the 
legitimate concerns about the need to effectively combat crime and 
protect national security have been satisfied by the bill and by 
amendments to this bill offered in a bipartisan fashion by Senators 
Feinstein, Brownback, and Kyl.

A free press in our country is what sets us apart from so many other 
nations in the world. The distinguished Presiding Officer, in his years 
in the House and in the Senate, can certainly point to examples where 
we have found out things that have been kept hidden from the Congress 
only because the press uncovered them. Certainly, that has been my 
experience in my years here in the Senate.

I also know that there is a temptation--when any administration has 
made a serious mistake or is trying to hide wrongdoing by their 
administration, the first thing they want to do is to make sure nobody 
in the press or the Congress or the public finds out what they have 
done. For every administration, it is easy to have all of their press 
people go out and tout the things they want us to know, the things they 
consider a success. None want us to hear about the embarrassments or 
the mistakes or, more recently, out-and-out wrongdoing. That is where 
you need a press willing to go in and uncover Government wrongdoing and 
protect the sources who help them to do so.

Do you think even with all of the hearings I and others have held we 
would have found out how law enforcement was manipulated and thwarted 
by this administration in the selection and manipulation of U.S. 
attorneys?


We found out about it first and foremost by the press, and then through 
witness testimony in hearings, and now by the Justice Department's 
Inspector General who had the willingness to stand up and point to the 
wrongdoing of this administration. And then there was Abu Ghraib--how 
did we find out about that? We learned about it in the press, not 
because the administration was willing to say: Look at this terrible 
thing we have done.

So after months and months of delaying tactics and opposition by the 
Bush administration, the time has come to pass a Federal shield law. I 
thank and commend the more than 60 news media and journalism 
organizations including ABC News, the Associated Press, CNN, the 
National Newspaper Association, the Society of Professional 
Journalists, and the Vermont Press Association, that worked so hard to 
get us to this point.

I ask unanimous consent to have a copy of a support letter from the 
Media Coalition Supporting the Free Flow of Information Act printed in 
the Record following my statement.