---
---

# SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
## `24da4ae5c9e43967d385228cd6b8d242`
`Mr. INHOFE — 3 June 2009`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to a true 
American hero, Army Sergeant Schuyler Patch of Owasso, OK, who died on 
February 24, 2009 serving our Nation in Kandahar, Afghanistan. Schuyler 
was assigned to the 2nd Squadron, 106th Cavalry Regiment, 33rd Infantry 
Brigade Combat Team, in the Illinois National Guard, based out of 
Kewanee, IL.

Schuyler enlisted in the Oklahoma National Guard in March 2005, and 
volunteered to deploy in 2006 to Afghanistan. In November 2007, he 
transferred to the Illinois Army National Guard and volunteered a 
second time to deploy to Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom. He was killed alongside four of his fellow Soldiers, when 
their vehicle was hit by an IED while on a joint patrol with the Afghan 
National Security Forces. Schuyler leaves behind his father John Patch 
of Illinois and mother Colleen Stevens of Owasso, Oklahoma. He also 
leaves behind a sister, Amber Patch and two brothers, Garrett and Seth 
Patch.

Schuyler was a selfless and courageous Soldier committed to this 
country and its freedom. His mother, Colleen, said that he died doing 
what he loved to do; making a difference in the world. She also 
expressed his love and care for the Afghan children while he was in 
Afghanistan. Schuyler's sister, Amber said, ''He loved everything about 
the Army and he believed in everything he was doing over there.'' His 
aunt, Julie Morland said, ''We are all very proud of him for even going 
over the first time and then volunteering to go over. It takes a 
special person to even join the Guard in the first place. To go there 
and fight as a volunteer, it takes a special person.''

On Schuyler's online Guest Book, I read through some of the things 
said about his life and character.

Schuyler's cousin wrote, ''Schuyler was not only brave, he was caring 
and never afraid to show his love for family and friends. A hello was 
never complete until he gave those he loved a hug . . . the world will 
be a sadder place without this fun loving, vibrant, kind, generous 
young man who always made me smile.''

Another friend wrote, ''He was a great guy and no one that ever knew


him will ever forget him. He is sadly missed and that smile of his will 
never be forgotten.'' Schuyler's mom Colleen also talked about his 
incredibly warm smile that will be forever in her mind.

A fellow soldier wrote, ''I was proud to have served with [Patch] in 
Afghanistan in 2006-2007. He was a good guy and liked to make the best 
of the situation.''

A friend wrote, ''We will all miss him and we all love him very much. 
He was the kind of guy who could cheer you up on your worst day and the 
most outgoing person I'll ever know. Thank you Schuyler for all the 
great memories we had and thank you so much for serving to protect all 
of us. I love you.''

Captain Jon Prain, a National Guard chaplain who spoke at his 
funeral, summed up Schuyler's life well when he said, ''He heard 
freedom's call. He paid freedom's price, so that we all might enjoy the 
benefits of freedom . . . He was, and always shall be, an American 
soldier.''

Schuyler lived a life of love for his family, friends, and country. 
He will be remembered by many for his contagious smile and warm, 
affectionate personality. I am honored to pay tribute to this true 
American hero who volunteered to go into the fight and gave the 
ultimate sacrifice by giving up his life for our freedom.
