# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `24e1a7ccadacb4954dd0015fe24d97ba`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 12 September 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, we are honored to live in a country 
with the bravest men and women in uniform in the world. I rise to pay 
tribute to one of those warriors, SP Ronnie D. Williams of Morning 
View, KY, tragically killed on July 17, 2005, after his tank overturned 
while on patrol in Baghdad.

Specialist Williams was 26 years old. It was his second tour of duty 
in Iraq. For his bravery in uniform, he received several awards, 
medals, and decorations, including the National Defense Service Medal 
and the Army Commendation Medal.

Although his Army files may list him as ''Ronnie,'' just about anyone 
who knew Specialist Williams called him by his nickname, ''John Boy.'' 
His mom Sharon Williams explains why.

''When he was born, 'The Waltons' was on TV,'' she says. ''His uncle 
was named Ronnie [and] we called him John, so when my son was born we 
nicknamed him John Boy, just like on the show.''

John Boy grew up in a big family and had an active childhood. He 
loved to hunt and would go hunting for deer and turkey. One frequent 
hunting companion was his uncle, Lance Anderson.

He loved fishing as well and once went fishing with his father-in-
law, William O'Banion, and caught a 42-pound catfish.

''If I had a choice out of a million boys to be my son-in-law, he 
would have been No. 1,'' Williams said.

John Boy's wife Darlene also knew him when he was young and remembers 
the fun he used to have as a child. ''John Boy grew up next door to 
me,'' Darlene says. ''We rode the same bus together. . . . He and my 
brother were best friends. . . . They would go to the trestle in 
DeMossville to fish, but they wouldn't tell anybody so that they could 
keep it a secret. They didn't want anyone to find their fishing hole.''

''Growing up we fought like cats and dogs,'' she said. ''I grew up 
with a bunch of boys--never any girls. I always played with my 
brother's friends and he'd get mad.''

John Boy enjoyed spending time with his friends and family. ''When he 
could come home, he'd say, 'OK, Mom--get the family together. It's time 
for a card game.'''

John Boy's Uncle Lance was in the Marines, perhaps inspiring John Boy 
to follow in that tradition. According to Darlene, he was also 
motivated by a love of his country. ''After 9/11, he said he wanted to 
make a difference,'' she said.

John Boy graduated from Simon Kenton High School in Independence, KY, 
in 1998, and joined the Army in 2002. He was eventually assigned to the 
3rd Squadron, 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment based in Fort Carson, CO.

Even while serving his country away from home, however, John Boy 
didn't forget the girl who had been, literally, next-door. ''Growing 
up, John Boy always told my dad that he'd marry me,'' Darlene says.

While back home on leave, John Boy and Darlene spent a lot of time 
together and, in her words, they ''hit it off pretty quick.'' Their 
devotion to each other continued even across great distances, once he 
had returned to his squadron.

''I went out to Fort Carson to see him every other week,'' Darlene 
says. ''It was a 24-hour drive. . . . It's a haul, especially in my '89 
Cavalier.''

On his last trip home, John Boy celebrated his birthday with his 
family,and he and Darlene took a belated honeymoon to Florida.

John Boy also made time to speak to kids when he was home and tell 
them about his experiences in uniform. Some schoolchildren had written 
him letters while he was away. He wanted to thank them personally.

''When he came home, he visited River Ridge Elementary School because 
his nieces attended there,'' Sharon recalls.

Darlene remembers how eager John Boy was to see the kids when he came 
home. ''He had blisters on his feet and back, but instead of going home 
and relaxing, he went to his nieces' school to talk about the Army, and 
he handed out candy to all the kids.''

Mr. President, our thoughts are with John Boy's family after their 
horrible loss. We are thinking of his wife, Darlene Williams; his son, 
Houston David Williams; his mother, Sharon Williams; his father, Howard 
Williams; his sisters, Crystal Herzog and Kathy Williams; his brothers, 
Geoffrey Williams and Howard Williams; his grandparents, David and Kay 
Redmond; his uncle, Lance Anderson; his parents-in-law, William Henry 
O'Banion, Jr. and Corinne O'Banion; and many other beloved friends and 
family members. Darlene adds about her husband:




 I just want everyone to know what a wonderful man he was; 


 that he would do anything for anyone. He was so wonderful to 


 me.


I trust those who knew and loved SPC Ronnie D. Williams will not soon 
forget his enormous service and sacrifice for our Nation, and this 
Senate stands in admiration of devotion like his that continues to keep 
our Nation safe and free.



Mr. President, I yield the floor.