---
---

# None
## `24e3602f7dee9703b63c4196fabafcaf`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, it is good to see you in the 
Chair this evening.

This has been a pretty amazing first 3 months for a new Member such 
as myself, who just joined this Chamber after having watched it from 
afar for a number of years. As our majority leader said at an 
engagement earlier tonight, this has really been one of the most 
remarkably productive Congresses in as long as he can remember being 
here. That is important. That is important to me.

Mr. Speaker, we are going to be joined later tonight by Ms. Wasserman 
Schultz, who is just beginning her second term. I think she shares a 
lot of the same frustration that the new Members do, that for all of 
the important policy changes that this Congress has started, whether 
you want to talk about raising the minimum wage, starting to repeal 
some of these massive tax breaks we have given to the oil industry, the 
very important action that we took on Friday that we will talk about in 
terms of Iraq and the new direction that this Democratic Congress is 
beginning to set on what we do in Iraq, maybe the most important thing 
was that we started getting this place to work again and starting to 
give our constituents out there faith that Congress is back to work for 
the people of this country. Instead of sort of waiting for the special 
interests and


the lobbyists to line up and come into the offices of the prior 
leadership to tell them what they wanted, now actually we have got the 
American people, middle-class families, working class families, their 
priorities are back in charge here again. That is what makes me proud 
to be part of this group.

This is the hour that the 30-Something Working Group gets to spend on 
the floor of the House. I am proud to be a member of that group, a new 
member, proud that Speaker Pelosi has allowed us this opportunity.

We are going to cover I think a couple of subjects tonight. We will 
certainly talk about what happened here on Friday.

But I want to first just rewind for a second, to rewind to what 
happened when we first got here in January. Because it is interesting. 
I watched C-SPAN occasionally when I got home from the campaign trail, 
I got home from the State capital where I served in Connecticut for a 
few years, so I have some familiarity with some of the talk that goes 
on in this place.

But now I get to sort of listen it to with new ears, because now I 
listen to a lot of the revisionist history that gets thrown around this 
place late at night, listen to our friends on the other side of the 
aisle, and they are friends.

It is important to put up this chart, Mr. Speaker, to remind the 
American people that we actually can be friends when it actually comes 
to putting on the floor of the House of Representatives up or down 
votes on issues that matter to regular, middle-class families out 
there.

We can talk about 68 Republican votes along with the Democrats voting 
to implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. When we raised 
the minimum wage, set that bill on a path forward in this House, we got 
82 Republican votes for that. Stem cell research, passed 253-174, 37 
Republicans. Better prescription drug programs for our elderly, 24 
Republicans. And on and on and on.

When it matters, where you put up-or-down votes in front of this 
House for things that make lives better for regular people out there, 
you are going to have Republicans and Democrats agreeing. So we are 
friends. We are friends when we put things before us we can all agree 
on.

But there has been some revisionist history. There has been some 
interesting 20-20 hindsight happening on this floor often. We heard 
just a little bit of it before. A lot the decrying about the situation 
that our Federal budget has gotten into is pretty curious, seeing that 
the reason that I am here in large part is because a whole bunch of 
people out in northwestern Connecticut who voted for one person for 24 
years decided that the budget priorities, along with the priorities on 
our foreign policy, were gravely out of whack.

A $9 trillion deficit, Mr. Speaker. A President that inherited a 
budget surplus, who ran on very fiscally conservative principles, 
managed to turn that into a record deficit in his first 6 years in 
office. A Republican Congress, I am sure there were some Democrats that 
were at the trough as well, but a Republican-led Congress that was 
complicit in racking up record amounts of debt that we know are not 
owned in large part by domestic banks but are increasingly owned by 
foreign banks, Asian banks and, in fact, it will put us in a very 
difficult position with when we are sitting down at a table to 
negotiate foreign policy with a lot of these foreign debt holders that 
have fairly decent leverage over us.

So we hear a lot about how we need to do something about this 
deficit. How it is our children, our children are going to be crippled 
under the weight of this deficit. They absolutely are. They absolutely 
are.



We had 6 years with a Republican President, 6 years with a Republican 
House, a Republican Senate for much of that time. Could have fixed it 
during that time; didn't get the job done.

Let's take a look at this chart for just one second. Let's make this 
clear, when we borrow money, all of this debt that we have racked up 
over the past several years, it is owned by Japan, China, the United 
Kingdom, Caribbean nations, Taiwan, OPEC nations, right down the line. 
That is who owns our foreign debt. That is what places us in incredibly 
compromising positions when we try to bring them to the table to be a 
multilateral player in actions throughout this world.

So here is why I am here: I am here because people in northwestern 
Connecticut wanted us to finally challenge this President on his 
disastrous policy in Iraq. I am here because they were sick and tired 
of the programs that make communities strong, the health care programs, 
education programs, job training programs, we are getting slashed and 
burned and cut to the bone by this Congress, while they gave away more 
and more massive tax breaks to their friends in the upper .1 percent of 
income earners in this Nation.

But they are also upset because the party that I think they thought 
was, you know, you see it in the polls, people for years and years and 
years thought that the Republicans were the ones that could manage 
their money and the Democrats they weren't so sure on. Well, they 
finally wised up after a while to realize that this place wasn't so 
responsible even under Republican rule; that in fact after budget after 
budget that got put before here, that President Bush put before this 
Congress was rubber-stamped over and over and over again and led to 
some of the most fiscally irresponsible policies that this Congress has 
ever seen, that this Nation, in fact, has ever seen. Largest Federal 
debt in the history of this country, growing by the day.

Now, here is the good news: it's changing. Now, as many times as 
folks on the other side of the aisle want to talk and use the term 
''biggest tax increase in the history of the Federal Government,'' 
well, I'm still searching through that budget resolution, I'm still 
searching through what I am going to vote on this week and I don't see 
it. I don't see it because it's not there because we are actually going 
to do the responsible thing. Because what happened to create this 
Federal budget deficit was not just these massive tax breaks that they 
gave away to the folks way at the top, top, top of the income bracket, 
but they also spent money in a way that would have your eyes spin to 
the back of your head if you dug into some of the things they were 
doing here.

A Medicare prescription drug program that deliberately ties the hands 
of the Federal Government, doesn't allow the Federal Government to 
negotiate lower prices with the drug industry, Mr. Speaker, making 
millions, hundreds of millions, in dollars in profit for the drug 
industry at the expense of American taxpayers.

A defense policy which asks virtually no questions of how we spend 
our money in Iraq. We find out that there was $9 billion sent over to 
Iraq on pallets, thrown out of SUVs in duffel bags, unaccounted for; 
disappeared in that country. Stories of these pork barrel projects that 
would make your head spin, the ''bridge to nowhere'' in Alaska, simply 
the tip of the iceberg when it comes to some of the frivolous spending 
that happens from this supposedly fiscally conservative Congress.

You could run through the examples over and over and over again. Mr. 
Speaker, we just had a hearing in the Government Oversight Committee 
that I sit on where we found out that the government does audits, each 
Department does an audit every year to try to make sure that we are 
spending money in a fiscally sound manner, just like any business 
would, that government should act like a business. Well, the analogy 
isn't particularly apt in a lot of facets. But when you are talking 
about at least having generally accepted accounting principles to make 
sure that money comes in and goes out in an efficient manner, well, 
yes, we should start acting like a business does.

The only agency in the Federal Government that can't give a clean 
audit year after year after year, the Department of Defense. Nobody 
here is putting pressure on them to account for how they spend money, 
to make sure that the billions of dollars that we hand to the 
Department of Defense in order to protect this country is being spent 
in the means that make sure that we are not saddling our children or 
grandchildren with the enormous amount of debt that we have racked up 
in this Congress.

I mean, you want to talk about spending money wisely, our friends on 
the other side of the aisle have to look themselves in the mirror, have 
to wonder why this election happened. I know


that this war was a major factor in people's choice at the polls. I 
also know that were a lot of people in my district, and I have got the 
run of the economic spectrum in the Fifth Congressional District, from 
people living in places like New Britain and Waterbury that used to 
have good, solid middle-class jobs who are still struggling to get back 
to that level of sustenance, to folks that are doing pretty well with 
their lives that have made a buck in this economy. Those folks at the 
upper end of the economic spectrum are wondering how this government is 
spending their money.

So this week we are going to put a budget before this House. And Mr. 
Meek, who has joined us and Ms. Wasserman Schultz, who sits on the 
Appropriations Committee, can talk more intelligently than I can about 
this. We are going to finally put a budget before this House that is 
going to start to reflect the priorities of the American people; we are 
going to get our financial ship in order. All the things that folks 
over there talk about are actually going to be reality in this budget.

We are going to make sure that we invest in the programs that make 
America strong. We are going to make sure that we end this disastrous 
policy of unbalanced budgets. We can do it in the next 5 years. That 
budget says that we can and we will. And it is going to continue at a 
pretty important precedent that we have set in this Congress, which is 
to change course on some of the most disastrous policies of this 
administration, particularly the vote that we took on Friday on the war 
in Iraq, and I know that we will talk about that, but also start to get 
our fiscal ship in order, to put our money where our mouth is.

It is one thing for people to come up to this dais day after day 
after day and talk about fiscal responsibility. It is another thing to 
actually do it and put it into practice.

The budget that we are going to vote on will be, as I have learned, 
this place calls a pay-as-you-go budget. It is simply this, what every 
family lives with every day. You want to spend some new money, show how 
you are going to pay for it. You want to cut some taxes, show how you 
are going to account for it. Pretty simple budget rule, Mr. Speaker. 
But not to be too partisan here, it took a Democratic Congress in order 
to start playing by those very simple rules.

So, Mr. Speaker, I want to want to hand it over to Mr. Meek for some 
words, who normally gets to kick off this hour. But let me say that it 
has been a proud first three months. Probably the proudest day I have 
had was on Friday, when we came together to stand up to the President's 
policy in Iraq. It is going to be another proud week this week when we 
set the budget policies of this country straight and we finally stand 
up to the President and don't do what every other Congress has done, 
which is take this massive document, throwing our deficit into an 
increasingly upward spiral, throwing our families into turmoil. We are 
going to finally take this very weighted document and hold it up to the 
light, not just rubber-stamp it.

It is going to be another good week here, Mr. Speaker. And with that, 
I yield to Mr. Meek.