---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `24ea84511bf1902c63d27e6c269ffd5e`
`Mr. CARDIN — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, 2/1/2/ hours ago, along with Senator 
Mikulski, I attended a mobilization ceremony for members of the 
Maryland National Guard who are being deployed to Iraq. All Marylanders 
are proud of the service of our members of the National Guard who have 
been called up and have served in Iraq and Afghanistan and are now 
being called up. It was an emotional morning as these soldiers said 
goodbye to their families.

I can tell you, they are ready. They are ready to serve our country. 
They will serve with great distinction. I told our soldiers and their 
families I would do everything I could as a Senator to make sure they 
had all of the resources so they can carry out the mission that has 
been assigned to them as safely and as effectively as possible. That is 
one reason I will vote for this conference report. I told their 
families I would do everything I could to help support their needs and 
to support the needs of military families around this Nation and to 
support the needs of veterans around this Nation, to take care of their 
support services, including their health care needs. That is another 
reason I will be voting for this conference report.


We need a change in our mission in Iraq so our soldiers can achieve a 
mission that is in the best interest of this country. That is another 
reason I am supporting this conference report. It spells out a mission 
that is in the best interest of this Nation and can be achieved. We 
need to change our role in Iraq. We need to get our soldiers out of the 
middle of a civil war, to focus on the war against terror, to help the 
Iraqi people take care of their own needs, to bring our troops home. 
That is another reason I will be supporting this conference report.

We need measurable and achievable benchmarks for the Iraqi Government 
so they can secure their own country to undertake political 
reconciliation and to provide basic needs for ordinary Iraqi citizens, 
another reason I will be supporting this conference report.

We need a political framework to include all the Iraqi stakeholders 
in order to provide a political answer to the problems of that country, 
another reason I support this conference report.

The President of the United States has threatened a veto. That would 
only delay the delivery of much needed funds to our forces, delay a 
change in direction in Iraq, and undermine the need for political 
reform in Iraq itself. We have our responsibility. Our first 
responsibility is to act and to pass this supplemental appropriations 
bill.

I urge colleagues to support this appropriation. It is in the best 
interest of the country.

I yield the floor.