---
---

# ECONOMIC OBSERVATIONS BY THE 43 MEMBER STRONG, FISCALLY CONSERVATIVE  DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `24eb4ab4c3e74a182c9dfc7f3b245de6`
`Mr. ROSS — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Colorado, a fellow Blue Dog 
member, a member of the 43-member strong fiscally conservative 
Democratic Blue Dog Coalition, for joining me here on the floor this 
evening.

Mr. Speaker, if you have any comments, questions, or concerns, I 
would invite you to e-mail us at BlueDog@mail.house.gov. Again, Mr. 
Speaker, if you have any comments, questions, or concerns, I would 
encourage you to e-mail us at BlueDog@mail.house.gov.

In the final 3 minutes that we have in the Special Order this 
evening, I want to point out that one of the things that has been 
endorsed by the Blue Dog Coalition that we are 100 percent united on is 
what is called House Resolution 97, Providing for Operation Iraqi 
Freedom Cost Accountability. The Blue Dogs have endorsed and introduced 
House Resolution 97. It was offered by Jane Harman, former ranking 
member of the House Intelligence Committee and Congressman Patrick 
Murphy who was a captain in our Army and served in Iraq. And it 
provides for Operation Iraqi Freedom cost accountability to address the 
lack of oversight and accountability with regard to the Federal 
Government's funding of the war in Iraq.

House Resolution 97, which currently has 61 cosponsors, puts forward 
tangible commonsense proposals that ensure future transparency and 
accountability in the funding of Operation Iraqi Freedom. If we are 
going to send $12 million an hour of your tax money to Iraq, we expect 
accountability and responsibility for how that money is being spent. We 
want to know without a shadow of a doubt that it is being spent to 
protect and equip our brave men and women in uniform. It is an 
important first step toward making sure that more resources get to our 
troops in the field.

There is a big debate right now of whether the body armor provided 
them in 2003, is that the best body armor in 2007. If we are going to 
send our troops over there, we must provide them with the very best, 
most advanced equipment that is available.

House Resolution 97 focuses on four crucial points for demanding 
fiscal responsibility in Iraq:

Number one, a call for transparency on how Iraq war funds are spent;

Number two, the creation of a Truman Commission to investigate the 
awarding of contracts;

Number three, a need to fund the Iraq war through the normal 
appropriations process, and not through the so-called emergency 
supplementals;

And, number four, using American resources to improve Iraqi 
assumption of internal policing operations, demand more from this new 
Iraqi Government.

In addition, House Resolution 97 calls for the Iraqi Government and 
its people to progress toward full responsibility for internally 
policing their country. Members of the Blue Dog Coalition also believe 
strongly that funding requests for the Iraq war should come through the 
normal appropriations process rather than through multiple emergency 
supplemental requests. Since 2003, the Republican-held Congress has 
been funding the war through emergency supplemental requests, $166 
billion in 2003, $25 billion in 2004, $76 billion in 2005, $50 billion 
in 2006, and another $70 billion after that and $99 billion for 2007 
and $142 for 2008. And the list goes on and on.

If we are going to be there and if we know we are going to be there, 
let's put it in the budget and quit hiding
it in the so-called emergency supplementals. The American people 
deserve to know that some $12 million an hour of their tax money is 
going to Iraq. And what the Blue Dogs are asking for in House 
Resolution 97, we are demanding from this administration and from the 
Pentagon accountability to ensure that every dime that goes over there 
is spent protecting and equipping and serving our honorable men and 
women in uniform who do everything that this country asks of them.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, I ask that you join me in keeping our brave 
men and women in uniform serving us tonight in Iraq and Afghanistan and 
other parts of the world in our hearts and in our prayers.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
