# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `24efe4e6f3b763ae99a1c47720cacc34`
`Mr. SHAYS — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

First I want to salute Mrs. Lowey. I think you have done a very fine 
job on this legislation. I know you are focused on a lot of issues, and 
I congratulate you for that.

We have disagreement on a few items in a very significant bill. I 
have strong concern about the lack of any dollars for economic 
development in the fiscal year 2008 budget, and that is what we are 
talking about. We are not talking about an emergency supplemental, 
which, by the way, has lots of strings attached, which may mean, 
ironically, money may not be spent ever.

We Republicans and Democrats, want to succeed in Iraq, economically, 
politically, socially and militarily. We want to succeed. The challenge 
is I feel like we are pulling the rug out from under the chance to 
succeed economically and politically.

The reason why I say ''politically'' is I have been there before, 
during and after the elections. This money helped educate the Iraqis on 
how to have elections. They did their elections better than we do our 
elections in the United States.

When I was outside the umbrella of the military, people would say, 
why have you put my father, my uncle, my brother, my cousin, my son out 
of work, when we abolished all of their military. So when I hear we 
spent $18 billion to reconstitute their military, that is not a large 
number. It is money that had to be used because of what we did. We 
attacked them. They did not attack us.

We have a moral obligation, I believe, to put Iraq in a better place. 
If we don't do it economically and politically, any effort militarily 
fails.

I mean no disrespect, but it is almost like there is an interest in 
having Iraq fail, so all the predictions that it will fail will be 
proven right. We need to prove ourselves wrong. We need to succeed.

These dollars should be, in my judgment, in the 2008 account, not in 
an emergency supplemental, whether now or in the future. The 
administration asked for $458 million. We asked the NGO's to say, what 
are your absolute needs for economic support, the rule of law, 
governance and democracy? And they have come back to us and said, we 
need $158 million.

I just hope that the gentlewoman in her wisdom will reconsider her 
decisions.