---
---

# FOCUSING ON MOVING FORWARD
## `24fb4e8657b675c831df0e56ef259608`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. Mr. Speaker, tonight we do something different, something 
out of the ordinary. The American people are accustomed to tuning into 
C-SPAN and watching Democrats yelling at Republicans and Republicans 
yelling at Democrats. There is a Democratic Special Order and there is 
a Republican Special Order. C-SPAN has become a channel that requires a 
parental advisory before kids are able to watch. It has become unsafe 
because of all the screaming and yelling.

Tonight we do something different. Tonight we have a bipartisan 
Special Order. Tonight Democrats and Republicans will spend some time 
not focusing on our disagreements, not fighting with one another, not 
talking about the left and the right, although this is a place where 
there should be discussion about left and right, but focusing on moving 
forward, focusing on specific solutions and ideas with respect to Iraq 
that will move us forward.

The plain fact is that Democrats and Republicans are are going to 
disagree on some fundamental issues. Maybe we are going to disagree on 
60 or 70 percent of the issues, but we do agree on the 30 to 40 percent 
that is left. The problem is that we have allowed ourselves to be 
paralyzed on our agreements because we are so busy disagreeing with one 
another.

Well, 2 years ago we found the Center Aisle Caucus, a bipartisan 
group of 50 Democrats and Republicans who meet routinely not to talk 
about our disagreements, we know where we are going to disagree, but to 
see if we can carve out areas of agreement. To talk not about the left 
or the right, but to talk about the way forward.

We have convened a series of meetings specifically pertaining to 
Iraq. Tonight I am joined by the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. 
Gilchrest), a Marine veteran who has been involved in those meetings 
and talked about bipartisanship and finding common ground and important 
solutions.

I am joined by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Lampson) who has become 
very active, a leader in the Center


Aisle Caucus, who also understands the importance of engaging one 
another and talking about moving forward rather than left and right.

We will be joined by other colleagues. The gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Dent) who has been proposing with the gentleman from 
Connecticut (Mr. Shays) that we integrate the recommendations of the 
Iraq Study Group into policy as we move forward.

I will be talking about two bipartisan solutions that I have been 
submitting. One, directing that the President submit a status of forces 
agreement to the Government of Iraq as a signal that we are not in Iraq 
to stay, to occupy, but that Iraq is a sovereign government responsible 
for its security. I believe that status of forces agreement, which we 
have in almost every country where we have a military presence, would 
be a very important signal to the Iraqi people and to our own forces.

Secondly, I will be talking about bipartisan legislation that I have 
introduced with the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Wolf) to expedite the 
process of bringing a variety of Iraqi refugees to the United States, 
those refugees who have served coalition forces as interpreters, as 
translators, who have risked their lives and now have to go through a 
bureaucratic nightmare to leave Iraq and come here. We will talk about 
that as well.

The final point I want to make before I yield to the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Lampson) is this: yesterday I visited the Walter Reed Army 
Hospital. I visited with about seven soldiers who have sustained some 
very serious wounds in Iraq. I visited with one of my constituents who 
had his foot amputated. I visited with another Long Islander who found 
it very difficult to talk, very difficult to breathe. I visited with a 
soldier who was being discharged yesterday afternoon and will now begin 
outpatient treatment.

Ultimately, I believe and the Members who will join me this evening 
believe that our obligation is to them. It is not to the left or to the 
right. It is to them. They do not want the United States Congress to be 
engaged in partisan paralysis and bickering. That will not end the war. 
They want us to try and find common ground. I am under no illusions 
that whatever we discuss tonight, and the gentleman from Maryland and 
the gentleman from Texas and the other Members and myself, will end the 
war tomorrow. I wish we could end the war tomorrow.

The fact of the matter is that for as long as we are here together on 
the floor of the House, we have an obligation to try and work with one 
another on areas where we can agree. We can fight honorably, we can 
disagree respectfully on all matters of policy; but we have an 
obligation to move forward on areas where there is agreement. That is 
what the Center Aisle Caucus was formed to do.

One of our members from Texas served for many years in this 
distinguished Chamber and has returned to the Congress after a 2-year 
hiatus. He is somebody who personifies bipartisanship, who has been a 
leader in this body, whose constituents also expect him to be working 
hard to move forward rather than left or right, and I yield to the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Lampson).