# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES SERGEANT WAYNE R. CORNELL
## `2507b0695ea1bfede7cf8d9195f20108`
`Mr. HAGEL — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Mr. President, I rise to express my sympathy over the loss 
of U.S. Army SGT Wayne Cornell of Nebraska. Sergeant Cornell was killed 
in Baghdad when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle. He was 26 years old.

Sergeant Cornell grew up in the small town of Holstein, NE. A 1999 
graduate of Silver Lake High School, his teachers had little doubt that 
he would serve his country after graduation. He enlisted with the Army 
National Guard soon after graduation and was deployed to Bosnia and 
Afghanistan.

In 2006, Sergeant Cornell decided to continue his career in the Armed 
Forces and enlisted with the Regular Army. He was deployed to Iraq in 
February 2007 with the 1st Battalion, 28th Infantry Regiment, 4th 
Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division based at Fort Riley, KS.

Sergeant Cornell was a deeply committed father and husband. He always 
put his family first in the decisions he made. The Army was his means 
to provide for his family, as well as serve his country. He and his 
wife Patricia had two children, Dameion and Zoie, and the family is 
expecting a third child in July.

In addition to his wife and children, Sergeant Cornell is survived by 
his father Larry Cornell, his mother Patricia Perrie, and sisters 
Jadeen Cornell and Janalle Gowlovech.

I ask my colleagues to join me and all Americans in honoring SGT 
Wayne Cornell.
