# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 1429, IMPROVING HEAD START FOR SCHOOL  READINESS ACT OF 2007
## `250ce905f852458b54d154d6c44dc7fb`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 14 November 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. I want to thank Chairman Kildee and Chairman Miller and 
Ranking Member McKeon, who was the Chair when we were working on this, 
and Ranking Member Castle for a bipartisan success. We can be proud of 
ourselves today.

Anyone who has been around small children knows that they're sponges 
for information, they just sop it up if you make it available to them. 
And it's widely accepted that early childhood education is absolutely 
critical to their development and directly tied to their success when 
they get into school, elementary school, and their ongoing future. So 
getting children in a structured classroom environment earlier in their 
young lives provides a critical window of opportunity.

Head Start provides our Nation's poorest children with a quality 
start that puts them on a level playing field with others when they 
start elementary school. No matter where a child comes from or what his 
or her background is, Head Start provides an equal opportunity to 
succeed by starting with a quality early childhood education. That's 
why I'm glad I'm here today as we authorize Head Start, reaffirming our 
commitment to this valuable program.

This bill expands access to Head Start, it improves teacher and 
classroom quality, and it strengthens the services children and their 
families receive when they enroll in the program.

The administration, however, can and should do better when it comes 
to funding. Too many eligible children are still denied an opportunity 
to participate in a Head Start program because there isn't enough 
funds. Well, if this administration wasn't spending $500 billion in 
Iraq, we would have the necessary resources to increase funding to 
allow for program improvement to give every child the Head Start 
experience and to increase teacher quality and salaries. It just 
depends on where we put our priorities.

Children are 25 percent of our population, Mr. Speaker, but they are 
100 percent of our future. We must provide them with the best possible 
beginning to their lives. So, Mr. Speaker, I look forward to working 
with my colleagues to increase our Nation's commitment to education for 
all of our children and to ensure that Head Start remains the 
successful experience that it is.

